Speaker 1  00:03
Hey, Doc.

Bill Clearfield  00:04
Hey, Dr. Miletus. How are you? Thank you for being with us again.

Speaker 1  00:08
Well, circulate, certainly, circulate.

Bill Clearfield  00:11
And thank Dr. Swathy, is that what we're going to call her?

Speaker 2  00:16
Yeah,

Speaker 1  00:17
I think that's what we're going to

Bill Clearfield  00:18
call her.

Bill Clearfield  00:18
Does that work? Or

Speaker 2  00:19
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  00:20
I like the glasses there. He's myself there.

Speaker 2  00:24
I like the red glasses. That's awesome.

Bill Clearfield  00:27
Oh, these are pink, actually. Oh,

Speaker 3  00:28
they're pink even better.

Bill Clearfield  00:30
Yeah, you have to have a certain mindset to wear these all the time.

Speaker 1  00:36
You have to be comfortable in your skin, my friend.

Bill Clearfield  00:38
Yeah, so I wore these two. So, so what happened was, I need them to read, and they'd broken them all here, and we were really busy, and I, one of my upfront persons said, "Well, I have these pink ones that you know, if you don't mind wearing them, and so I wore.. I didn't really have a choice, so I left it, and everybody that was here that day liked them, so I said, "Gotta keep them. It looks pretty good, and it's kind of become a signature now. I gave, I gave a talk at the Androgen Society last summer in San Francisco, and I'm now known there as the doctor with the pink glasses. There we go. It

Speaker 1  01:14
goes with your complexion nicely. It

Bill Clearfield  01:16
does. It does. Yeah, I think it matches my eyes for my hair or something.

Speaker 1  01:21
No, my classes go up and down like this all day long. I tried bifocals, trifocals,

Bill Clearfield  01:26
yeah, I tried all

Bill Clearfield  01:30
that. And then,

Bill Clearfield  01:31
so you know, when I first knew I was in the operating room when I realized I needed glasses, because the nurse kept, and eventually one of the scrub nurses gave me her glasses. Oh, that's a lot better, and that's a little frightening when you're, you know, in the middle of a wound there, and you can't really see where you're, where you're, where you're, you know, putting the stitches. So, so I went to the eye doctor, and I got a fancy pair of glasses, you know, again, I think they were bifocals, and it was long enough ago that they were only $300 you know, that was that's probably lunch money now, and I lost them in a week, so then I realized I couldn't, so we went over to someplace, I don't know, CVS or Walgreens or somebody got a pair of, you know, readers for five bucks, and I said, well, this is good enough, what the hell am I spending $300 for, so you know, if you break them, they, they get really fancy ones on Amazon, you get five of them for 20 bucks, so I think these are six, the pink ones are six, the good ones, so

Speaker 1  02:35
my funniest story is when my son, which is now 32 was about four years old, he was spinning around on a chair in a rural Oregon coastal town. He busted his chin wide open, he could see the bones, and took him to the dock. The doc was very in the ER. They had a small little ER there, and he said, "Oh, you're a naturopathic doctor. I said, "Yes. He said, "Well, I have this paresthesia in my fingers. I think it's due to my brachial flexes. Do you mind adjusting my cervical spine? I says before, after suturing my son, but after, and he actually helped me do

Bill Clearfield  03:12
it all right. There you go. So,

Bill Clearfield  03:18
how'd it turn out?

Speaker 1  03:20
Very small scarf, and he did a good job, and I did not stroke the patient, which was the ER doc.

Bill Clearfield  03:28
Yeah, that's that's that's kind of bad, bad. I don't know if you know Dr. Fong here, you know, he's a, he's a, he's been the president of the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association for 400 years and whatnot, so he went there and they, they manipulated his neck, and he ended up with a herniated disc, and he had to have it up, they had surgery on it, and then it got infected, and it was a big mess, so

Speaker 1  04:01
and once you turn the controls over to us, I'm going to have to tink around with the video piece. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:11
sometimes the videos you can't really hear them too well on Zoom. That's number one. Number two, I don't know, they changed the something they did in here, because at the bottom of my screen, where it says share, it always used to be green, now with now it's white, and a lot of times we have trouble having the speakers connect, so but it looks like we're not having trouble with you, so good, good, maybe they fixed it, because I don't do anything with it, I know better than to touch these

Speaker 1  04:43
technology we work for, the technology occasionally it works for us, and I'm okay with that.

Bill Clearfield  04:49
Yeah, I try, I try to try to keep it to a minimum, so, so, so, you, we usually start with Dr. Narrio. He's been taking the integrative medicine course with at University of Arizona, so he gives us a tip of the week, so the rest of us don't have to go there and do it. So, if I, if I, if I can use, I can use AI to extract all your tips at all. It's been about a year, right?

Speaker 4  05:20
Oh, yeah, almost,

Bill Clearfield  05:22
yeah, so I probably, probably have you know, 4550 tips at a week, except when the, when the video comped out, I can probably extract them all and make my own little, my own little class there,

Speaker 4  05:35
your own university

Speaker 1  05:38
avatar,

Speaker 4  05:40
yeah, an AI university that he's getting ready for. He has all these modules. He's, hey, did my student contact you?

Bill Clearfield  05:51
I don't think so.

Speaker 4  05:53
Number two, some random person. I'm kidding, it's a student of mine.

Bill Clearfield  05:58
Wait, somebody did contact me. I told him, yeah, you know, whenever you know me, I've.. when you know the doors open, I even let you in.

Speaker 4  06:06
Yes, see the homeless guy was actually in there too with me and the kid.

Bill Clearfield  06:11
My doors, you know,

Speaker 1  06:14
address you an AI. Close, ask Dr. Swathi, and we went.. we went west for him.

Bill Clearfield  06:19
We had. we had a. we had a lady who I thought had a guy's name show up, was that one of your students?

Speaker 4  06:27
No, no, no, it's

Bill Clearfield  06:30
she's a, she's a, she's a firefighter or paramedic, was that?

Bill Clearfield  06:33
No, no, no, no, no, no.

Bill Clearfield  06:34
Yeah, we had a paramedic show up who wants to go to do school. I'm trying to send her off to to anything, but, but, but the, the legitimate so-called medical schools, naturopathic school, chiropractic school, you know, they'll be much happier,

Speaker 4  06:52
not the MD school and deal school,

Bill Clearfield  06:54
yeah, you know, no, so

Speaker 4  06:58
rated,

Bill Clearfield  07:00
well, not overrated, you know. You got, you got the Nazis running, running the show, and

Speaker 4  07:07
you're not recorded, right? Yeah, not

Bill Clearfield  07:10
yet. Let me wait. Let me check.

Speaker 4  07:15
Don't post those.

Bill Clearfield  07:17
No, we won't post that.

Speaker 4  07:18
Meant YouTube might be running after you,

Bill Clearfield  07:23
you know, Zoey. Well, you know,

Speaker 1  07:30
you are recording. We should start turnover,

Bill Clearfield  07:33
so yeah, was you know, no, was we.. it's not recording. We, we had.. I don't.. do you know, Stefan Hartman, Dr. Melias.

Speaker 5  07:42
I do

Speaker 1  07:42
not.

Bill Clearfield  07:43
Okay, he's a delightful young man, as young as Dr. Nario here. He's in Florida. Um, he pretty does, does pretty much what we do, but he's, he's got a medical gym, and he's got all sorts of things. Anyway, he's got his mother there, she's 81 years old, she's doing one arm pull-ups, and she's doing the plunge baths, and if you look, sorry, you wouldn't know she was, you know, she doesn't look like she's 60, and we had her, we had her on for an interview about, you know, what she's doing, and you know, you know, because she's living the, the anti-aging life, and she certainly looks at, and all she, while she was talking, she all she mentioned at one point, she said, I tried the Gerson diet once, and that's all she said, and she said I didn't like it, and YouTube, I either I had to cut it out or they banned us from from because it was misinformation, she didn't say what it was, she didn't say that, you know, it cured anything or did any. Well, she said was she tried it, and oh my god, that was, you know, you know, the crime of the century,

Speaker 4  08:52
blasphemy.

Bill Clearfield  08:54
Yeah, that's right. But that's us, you know, that you know we're the bad, we're the pecs, bad boys of medicine, so

Speaker 4  09:02
it only happens here in this show.

Bill Clearfield  09:04
So

Speaker 4  09:07
we need more pull. We need to get the higher ups to kind of..

Bill Clearfield  09:11
we may be getting some help.

Speaker 4  09:14
RFK is coming.

Bill Clearfield  09:17
I don't know about RFK, but apparently Dr. Farshin's little click has fallen apart for one reason or another, so the people that have run it for him, Claudia and Wilson, for years called me and said they're no longer there and they want to help us. So, oh,

Speaker 4  09:35
they're.. what do you mean, their whole event or the video,

Speaker 1  09:38
the whole,

Bill Clearfield  09:39
the whole thing? I guess. I guess his son's taken over, and I don't know, I don't know. Anyway, they're out from there, so you know they're good folks. I've been working with him for 10 years, and you know, they've always been the front people, and you know, they run the conferences and all of that. So,

Speaker 4  09:56
AASCP, right?

Bill Clearfield  09:58
Yeah, that's where I got my, I case you don't know, Dr. Melitus, the Physician of the Year with the American Academy of Stem Cell Physicians, you're talking to.

Speaker 1  10:06
Oh, there we go.

Bill Clearfield  10:09
I even, I even got, I even got a trophy over there, so said it says it says Scientist of the Year, they spelled year with a small y, but so, but I guess I shouldn't quibble, right?

Speaker 1  10:24
It was still a year, yeah, it was a year,

Bill Clearfield  10:27
that's right.

Speaker 4  10:29
Well, you're not gonna get your second one if they're closing down.

Bill Clearfield  10:32
Well, I don't, I don't, I guess not. I know, anyway, they changed it from stem cell on Wednesday night to arthritis.

Speaker 4  10:40
Oh, so they're opening up.

Bill Clearfield  10:42
It's well, it's a son is running it now, I guess. So,

Speaker 4  10:45
whose son's.. who's this

Bill Clearfield  10:47
Dr. Farshin's son?

Speaker 4  10:49
Oh, who's a doctor too?

Bill Clearfield  10:52
I guess so.

Speaker 4  10:53
Ah, interesting. Okay, he

Speaker 6  10:55
just finished. He just finished his orthopedic fellowship and is taking over the practice that Dr. Froshens, yeah,

Speaker 4  11:02
but what are they letting go there of their educational platforms? I mean, he can still handle that.

Speaker 6  11:09
I'm not part of the inner sanctum to know, but I think that's going to continue. Maybe they've just used a different title name for the next couple of weeks, but I don't think,

Bill Clearfield  11:20
like I said, so Claudia Salazar and Wilson Demer, as they've been the, the, the organizing people for forever.

Speaker 6  11:27
Yeah, unfortunately they're not there. I don't know why, but

Bill Clearfield  11:32
yeah, I don't know. I talked to her today. I mean, she called me, I didn't call her. She said, you know, if you guys need help, let me know, and I told her, I said, you've been with him for years and years. I said, we don't make any money here. I said, I can't pay you anything to pay. She goes, well, maybe we can change that. You know, I've been running this thing for six years, and I, we, I mean, we, we pay out, besides the fact that it takes me an hour to three hours every every Saturday to put the email together, you know, we pay for YouTube and whatnot, and one time we tried to do a paid thing, and that didn't fly, so that was 20, that was with the what's her name, the homeopathic lady from Canada,

Speaker 4  12:17
they're in,

Bill Clearfield  12:20
yeah, yeah,

Speaker 4  12:22
or Parvin, Doctor Parvin, yeah, I remember,

Bill Clearfield  12:25
alright. Well, Doctor Narrio, it's literally after five. Why don't you hang on? Okay, why don't you give us your tip of tip of the week?

Speaker 4  12:35
Alright, so today I want to discuss one of the most polarizing drugs in modern medicine. So, this actually, this medicine actually got its spotlight during the COVID pandemic, but now let's see the new or integrative uses that we see in research, and I'm specifically talking about ivermectin, right, the specifically, specifically the emerging mechanistic research about longevity claims, cancer interests, and what the actual evidence currently supports, so my goal there is not advocacy, it's more scientific calibration. So ivermectin became interesting because researchers discovered it affects pathways beyond antiparasitic activity, and again mechanistically, studies suggest it affects mostly on the pathways of AKT MTOR, AMPK, Pac One, even mitochondrial signaling, and autophagy and mitophagy. So, these are pathways deeply connected to metabolism, inflammation, cancer biology, and even aging. And there are some intriguing longevity findings now, but only in very simple organisms, so the 2018 Rotifer study published Biogerontology showed ivermectin extended mean and median lifespans of approximately eight to 21% with some health span improvements, including mobility and mitochondrial activity for these these microorganisms. Nematode studies have shown similar lifespans in motility findings at certain doses, but here's the key limitation: here, do you have to remember, no mammalian lifespan studies yet, no mouse longevity data, and no human anti-aging trials. So, unlike rapamycin or urolithin, a ivermectin is not part of a mainstream geroscience yet, but there's some something brewing there, and also another interest is cancer. So, cancer is where most of the mechanistic excitement currently exists. In vitro studies shows ivermectin can induce apoptosis, inhibit proliferation, reduce angiogenesis in alter mtor and ROS mediated signaling. So, the National Cancer Institute, NTI, has explored preclinical work now in this specific area. There's also an ongoing phase one, and now going into two study combining ivermectin with checkpoint inhibitors and metastatic triple negative breast cancers. Additionally, 2626 observational cohort reported self-reported clinical benefit using ivermectin plus mebendazole across mixed cancer populations, but importantly, these are again still in the works and not definitely part of oncological evidence yet. Another striking one would be there's also emerging interest in neurodegenerative disease research, 2025 preclinical study using a streptocosin induced Alzheimer's model showing ivermectin reduce amyloid beta plaque burden, neuroinflammation, and pathological brain changes, while improving markers of neuronal protection. So researchers believe this may, I guess, relate to ivermectins, anti-inflammatory oxidative stress modulation, and influence on settler cleanup pathways like autophagy, but importantly, this was again animal models, not a human clinical trial. So, while mechanistically intriguing, we are still far from saying ivermectin is an Alzheimer's therapy that we should consider, so interesting. One of the stronger, again, newer applications may actually be malarial transmission control. In 2025 Bohemia trial showed monthly ivermectin administration reduced malaria incidents. So, quinine is usually what we use, but now, so it reduced about 26% in children, reduced the malaria incidents, though. Here's the mechanism that's interesting, not by treating malaria directly, but by killing mosquitoes that fed untreated individuals, and which may be one of the strangest pharmacological mechanisms we've discussed in years, making humans temporarily toxic to mosquitoes when they take ivermectin. So, conclusion here is the biology of ivermectin is genuinely fascinating, but the enthusiasm is currently ahead of the evidence, and as integrated as integrated physicians here, our job is to remain again open-minded without becoming evidence indifferent. So, watch out, ivermectin is kind of getting some traction here, so we'll watch out for that in the future. That's your league of the week,

Bill Clearfield  17:02
evidence indifferent. Wow, you said evidence indifferent. I mean, what a, you know, sort of string there. You,

Speaker 4  17:13
oh yeah, let's bring in some new words to your name.

Bill Clearfield  17:15
Your mother would be proud of you.

Bill Clearfield  17:19
She just

Bill Clearfield  17:20
feels like

Speaker 4  17:21
you said that,

Bill Clearfield  17:23
yeah, right. Your mother, I used to do that with my mother too. I used to use big words, you know, that really sometimes didn't even mean anything, but she, which

Speaker 4  17:31
I don't even understand. I guess my

Bill Clearfield  17:33
son, the doctor. Okay. And with that, okay, there's a question about the dose of ivermectins, where you're talking about that. Remember, they did those studies that you know we were using, like I don't remember what the it was, it was by weight.

Speaker 4  17:51
Yeah, so with when you talk about dosing of ivermectin, for let's, let's do the FDA-approved approach. Parasitic infections are dosed like 150 200 micrograms per kilogram, and the one that you can remember, the FLCC program has actually dosing it at 0.4 to 0.6 milligram per kilogram, so it's considered that the high doses are actually falling to the FLCC category, but you have to remember the FLCC program is only going to be giving the patient like five days straight, seven days straight, not like it's an everyday type of thing that we're hearing in specific protocols out there, and as you can compare to the parasitic dosing, it's very different, so parasitic dosing again, you will just take that, what again, one to three days, the most a week, and again it's definitely low dose in terminate use, so for the studies that you were asking about, so the studies specifically for the Alzheimer's, so this is you, these are huge doses, two milligram per kilogram, Alzheimer's, I think three milligram per kilogram, and the same for the I think for the other studies it ranges from two to three milligram per kilogram, so it's a very high dose, and you have to remember that also when you talk about the side effects of ivermectin, it's usually GI side effects, but if you go higher, neurological side effects and liver side effects can also happen. That's why this is still, if you notice, these are not human studies for sure, but it's just seeing that the potential of ivermectin is out there once you now kind of get into the weeds of doing it in clinical trials.

Bill Clearfield  19:39
Okay,

Speaker 7  19:41
may I ask, what are the neurological cell defects of ivermectin? I used to take one milligram, I used to take too many grams per kilogram one day, and I was neurological. What can happen if you take a high dose?

Speaker 4  19:59
So, what they're talking about there is neuropathies, and again they noted these side effects when you're taking really like high doses in non-interminate fashion, so meaning you're taking it for a long period of time, like months, not just a month, we're talking about three, four months using high specific doses, but overall the safety profile of ivermectin is very, very good. Rarely would you see a lot of these, I guess, side effects when you're taking it. You always hear about these COVID protocols, right? That's usually where we use it, but again, rare, rarely is it being seen out there clinically.

Speaker 7  20:44
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  20:46
All right, and with that, we move along to Dr. Chris Billitas and Dr. Swathi. You're gonna, you're gonna pronounce your last name first, Dr. Swathi. And, and as I'm saying that right, by the way,

Speaker 3  21:00
yeah, so it's Dr. Swathi Varanasi as my name.

Bill Clearfield  21:04
I got, I got that East Coast accent that I can't get. So, so you may know, I've been here out here for 12 years. So, so Dr. Melitus has been with us a number of times. He's always contributes something new and exciting and fresh, and he's brought a colleague along now, and you know what, I'm going to let you, Chris, why don't you just introduce yourself? He's written seven zillion books and 400 million articles, and you know, just we could spend all night just on your credential, on your both of your credentials. So, Chris, I'll let you take it away.

Speaker 1  21:41
Well, thank you very much. And, as always, great to visit with like-minded folks, and love growing, and love learning, and great information on the ivermectin. So, I've been a naturopathic physician here in Oregon, primary care with a DEA number, and all that kind of trappings for 33 plus years. I have written several books, I'm up to my 19th book, couple 100 national articles, and was the dean and chief medical officer of the oldest naturopathic university in North America. So, I can officially say I was institutionalized. I have the privilege of having Dr. Swathy. Dr. Swathy is a colleague, and she's a PharmD, so she brings out rigor, so I'm going to go over the 100,000 foot view, a little bit of the details, and then she's going to dive into some of the research. There will be a slide where I have a little video. If, for some reason, that video, as I announced the video, doesn't work, someone can shout it, shout out, and I'll just pass by it. So we're gonna talk about Ashwagandha, we're gonna talk about bermuring, turmeric, we're gonna talk about technology, and as we were just talking about with ivermectin, well, what about a dosage? How many milligrams is it? But it comes down to, as we all know, bioavailability. Is there a way to get enhanced bioavailability beyond a standardized extract? And the answer you'll find today is yes, you can get enhanced bioavailability beyond a standardized extract without a fighter zone, without a micellized form, and it's very interesting. When I first saw this technology, I was amazed. So, of course, we know the benefits, Ashwagandha, and I'm going to give Ashwagandha as kind of our little flagship discussion here, and we know it's great for its adaptogenic properties, has immunological benefits, antioxidant properties, but now maybe if we can get a larger effect with a smaller dose, could that offer a versatility in terms of application, whether it be gummies, whether it be liquids, or whether it be an accommodation formula, and, or, as we were just talking about a pharmacological, if you're trying to get so many milligrams per kilogram, might it offer a better way to do it, but without actually having to increase the milligrams, so research shows a 12x 16x 18x improvement with the technology we're going to discuss today, so there's pharmacological studies and pharmacokinetic studies. The Ashwagandha study is interesting. They did a randomized double-blind crossover study of 16 individuals, and they saw a phenomenal change in the C area under the curve, and what's intriguing about that, as you can see in the blue, is here's a dose, same kind of dose for each individual. One of the substances have been exposed to an acoustic resonance, a frequency which seems very esoteric, and as Dr. Clearfield was speaking to, we all have to keep open-minded. So, when I start, started hearing about this technology, I'm going straight, so a frequency. Well, we know about the therapies of music. We know that you listen to Mozart, for example, you're actually more likely to have less allergenic response to late text than if you listen to Beethoven. Well, that's music, but there's a frequency there. And, of course, we know about tuning forks, we know about Tibetan singing bowls onwards, so I started getting very, very intriguing. So, what they found here, as you can see in the blue, is Ashwagandha that's been exposed to the acoustic resonance and had an 18 fold higher viability than a standardized ashwagandha. Interesting, and make residence time of 4.1 times longer, so not only did it peak higher, it stayed in the body longer. We all know about dosing, we know about patient compliance, about is it QD, BID, TID, and heaven forbid we ever ask a patient to Q ID, compliance goes down unless it's for a finite period of time, like an antibiotic or something, so but if we want somebody to be on something long term, dosing does matter, number of pills matters, and so patient compliance improves, but also, as you can see, the bioavailability increases, and as well as the duration after a single dose, and Dr. Swati will go a lot more into the science of that, and some of the study nuances, so as you can see here, they have Ashwagandha's called QA, for quantum Ayurveda, and I'll speak a little bit more about the founder and visionary in a little while. The Ashwagandha's standardized 2.5% so we have 2.5% and we have a 2.5% exposed to the acoustic resonance, and then that acoustic resonance at frequency, and think of Lewis structures, was we'll chat about it a little bit. How do you describe a molecular structure that has the same chemistry, but if you have three different measures of a molecule, Lewis structures, you have a better description of that molecule than if you only had a single resonance of that molecule, and that's just basic chemistry that we got all got exposed to. So you can see at baseline the first below quantifiable levels, and then immediately within a quarter of an hour they had a 12.5 for the quantum Ayurveda, where the other individuals with a standardized extractor offshore gunner, it's not just like a plain offshore gun, it's only 2.1 and you can start seeing it climbs incrementally, and it crescendos here at the two and a half hour mark, but it stays at 30 all the way at the 16 hour mark, as you can see here. If you can see where my pressure is, it's like, wow, that's remarkable. It's actually at the 16 hour mark higher than the peak of the standardized extract. So, once again, the versatility of a unique formulation, and if you're into formulation, or you know people that do formulating, you're going to find this fascinating. A clinical practice is like, "Wow, I'm staying at a peak level compared to the normal standardized amount for basically the duration of an entire day. So it was compelling when I started looking at this research, and so the key here with a quantum IR vita, and I've kind of captured it all here with a QA at the end, marked higher peaks, comparable peak time to peak, much, much more rapid, superior overall exposure, 18 fold higher systemic exposure, prolonged half life, and a 4.1 time longer duration within the body, so you can imagine if we had a med and all of a sudden if we were in a pharmaceutical world, and we can have a med that was not toxic and actually went ahead and allowed for a single dose, and think of a Z pack. Why are Z packs so popular? Azithromycin, it's like two pills the first day, one pill thereafter, until gone. Compliance goes remarkably up if you, of course, it's the correct antibiotic for the microbiology we're going after the microbiome micro bacteria, so it's kind of like interesting. So here's that research, and that's for ashwagandha. Well, we have the same research for Burberry, we have the same research also for turmeric, and what they've done is they've looked for a frequency for each of these plants that improve their bioavailability, and there's some 7000 Ayurvedic herbs, and they're going through the whole index of all these herbs and looking to see which ones can they add a resonant energy to, and is it a panacea? No, is it some magic sauce? The answer is no. They're finding some herbs take the frequency and retain that frequency in a crystalline state for a protracted period of time, other herbs just don't want to take the frequencies that are being imparted, so it's not like they're just saying, okay, all these herbs now have got exposed to this frequency, certain ones get exposed, and they have this change per the research on the bioavailability, so it's always with a laboratory and supplement company you're looking for the certificate of analysis, and if you see here where that arrow is, it's a little small, but I'll read it to you. They call it radiation, it's not radiation, it's a frequency, but the frequency exposure was 80 megahertz to one gigahertz, and that's a proprietary frequency in which they're using, and they're exposing the once again standardized extract of 2.54% so that's some of the science behind what did they test, and they compared it before and after the acoustic resonance. So, once again, you imagine if we were to do that to maybe the pharmaceutical we were talking about earlier, and instead of saying 150 milligrams a day or 200 milligrams a day for neurological problem, you're able to offer a smaller dose, is more cost effective, and once again offers greater versatility and potentially less side effects. So, when we look at the procurement, the Oscar Gardner and the Birpin, their flagship products, I like to look at the research, I'm saying, wow, okay, well, what is it telling me? And so we're seeing here substantial higher peak levels across the board on all of them, so it's in these are the ones that have taken on the acoustic resonance and are actually been documented to actually have a remarkable increase bioavailability, and you can see this under the reduced dose down here, so the curtain 16x more bioavailability, the Ashwagandha 18x and the berberine, and once again, what do we think? We think blood sugars, we think all these other applications, but when I first learned in 1992 when I graduated as a naturopathic physician, we're using organ grape, for later known as mahonia, for its antibacterial properties. So, once again, it's kind of interesting, can I get more, and I can tell you, Oregon grape, if you never tasted an organ grape tincture or powder, it's terrible tasting. And Ashwagandha has a tendency to be a little bit on the bitter side too. So we're seeing all these increases in exposure, and once again, I'm not going over the detail here, because Dr. Swathi will do it, but you can see significantly increased total systemic exposure for a long half life reduced dose, so now we had a formula. Let's say we were going for the ashwagandha, so we're going to some rhodiola and some gin sing, and we have some ashwagandha. We can fit it all into one capsule, because we're taking less milligrams to get a standard dose, and we'll still exceed it, because it's 18 times more. So the therapeutics are there because it has that longer trajectory for being in the body, and so once again, faster results. So the Ashwagandha, once again, using it as the flagship discussion point, higher area under the curve, increased CMAX, longer half life, allowing the same therapy at a lower dose, that's the key, lower dose, and or if we really want to move it. Let's say we got an adrenal insufficient patient, we're doing some hydrocortisone, we're doing other things to help their adrenal function, and it's like, okay, well, we really want to rise Lazarus from the dead, so to speak. Could a higher, longer dose be helpful, and with all our pharmacically fatigue and or long COVID patients, for that matter, you know, it's like if they can remember to take their pills once or twice a day with their brain fog and all their other things, once again we can have increased patient results and outcomes. So, as we look here at the formulation strategies, the higher CMAX, the higher map under the curve, the key really here is that we're able to deliver things in a synergistic manner, but it's also cutting edge. We always like to learn about the new thing, whether it be controversial or whether it be not. And so, how does this come about? And it'll be interesting, because the Dr. Shafi, which is the gentleman that founded this company, he pondered, because he's from India. He was pondering, how did our traditional medicine come around, and what was the rituals of those traditional medicines? And if we think of all the cultures around the world, has there not always been, with rare exception, music involved, chanting involved, or possibly even a Tibetan singing bolt involved. Yes, I have one of those. And so it's like, so what about frequencies? And we all hear the same, you get my vibe. And so ultimately this physics that he's applying has to do with dual wave concepts that Einstein and Schroeder were discussing back in the day, then they came up with a couple combination formulas, which are designed for specific targeted outcomes. This one's for neurological neuropathies, and so they actually, this is in trial, so it's not completed yet, but current preliminary research shows that there's a 1.7 times higher improvement compared to B 12. They're using B 12 as a placebo, they're not using a placebo, they're using B 12 as a placebo, and as you can see in it, it has a beta glutathic gallon, gallon that some alpha Lipoic acid, some magnesium thiamine, the B 12 and methylene tetrahydrofolate, and they're seeing that we're having an improved aspect of outcomes and decreased nerf pain. How many patients have diabetic neuropathy or disc issues secondary to manipulation or not, secondary to lifting too heavy or not, or just the degeneration of us all being like cave people sitting in our chairs too long, and so they're seeing a positive change in oxidative stress markers, quality of life improvement, and overall less suffering. So they have a nerve product that they came up with, and their portfolio, they're in their offerings are not that broad, because it's a lot of years. He started doing this research back in 2005 and they've continued going ahead and delineating and making sure each one of the products will retain its acoustic resonance long term, so there's not a shelf life of the energy being degraded over a course of time. Then it created a female targeted product for hormone modulation, inflammation, metabolic health, bone, and joint health, and they looked at the clinical trials, and once again, this is still in process. It's a double-blind crossover study, and they're looking for what's changing. Well, their mood and stress improve, but not statistically confirmed yet. Important potential menopausal symptoms. Once again, we may be familiar with the herbal called Remy Feminine out of Germany, way back in the day. Remy Feminine had been used for 4050, years and is a very unique black cohosh extract, but once again, hot flashes, night sweats, and menopausal symptoms are very real. So right now they're seeing some improvement in joint health, as well as the menopausal symptoms and mood, but they need to look longer. But these are upcoming studies, but really the point of our presentation today is to show you the technology, show you this burgeoning area, which one day will probably be a mainstay in medicine, and this is pioneering without a question, so their approach, and they call it quantum Ayurveda, is they take a GMP extract, then they use AI technology, and they're working with pharmacist Amit, and Ahmed has an AI geni technology, which can be used for not just quantum Aravita, but any medicine or drug or herbal you're trying to deliver to the marketplace is the same technology they use for pharma delivery to accelerate the patterns, accelerate the outcomes, and they do CAD validation, and they use Raman Spectrum baseline fingerprinting. We'll talk more about that. We'll talk more about the energy chambers, and we'll talk about the Raman confirmation post loads. Once they put the frequency in, they're measuring to ensure that it retains that frequency for a long extended period of time. And, of course, they are doing clinical trials, they've done the Berberine, they've done the curcumin, and they've done the Ashwagandha, and now they're completing these two combo products as well, so of course the GMP extracted and this nutrified genii omic, which offers this technology, is not part of the green space company, but he's a pharmacist in this realm and acquaintance of Shafi, so they're collaborating on accelerating the process, because once again they're indexing and putting a library together of all 7000 Ayurvedic herbs, and it's going to, in a human, it's going to take forever, so they're actually using some AI to help identify which herbs are more likely, based on their biochemistry and structures, to take on the acoustic resonance, the computer-aided drug design, once again, same thing, they're using it, and whether we call a medicine like metformin, is metformin a drug? Yeah, I have to write a prescription for it. I can't just go to a US, North American pharmacy to pick it up, unless I'm in Mexico, of course, which is also North America, but US, Canada, you can't just pick up metformin any place, but Galactica fisher, now, which is a source of metformin, clearly you can, but now imagine being able to use that technology to figure out which botanicals can actually be made into higher therapeutic outcomes, so they're using both the AI nutrient genii as well as the CAD, and using Raman spectrometer. I'll be honest, I did not know that much about Raman spectrometry, but it actually captures unique frequency signatures of a given ingredient and looks at vibrational energy shifts at a molecular level. I know all about mass spec, I know about chromatography, but I did not know about Raman at any meaningful level until I started looking at this research, and the spectro fingerprint reveals the structure, the chemistry, the quantum vibrational pattern. So think more like when we were in organic chemistry class, or when nuclear minic resonance was being used to see, is there a substance there? It's very intriguing technology, but it's the quantum chambers, which is the magic sauce, and it's that quantum chambers that, which actually impart the frequency and gently imparts a shift in the molecule. It does not change the structure of the molecule itself. It's still 2.5% active, let's say, in the case of the ashwagandha, but what it is doing is it's showing that it actually can impart the ability to alter and lessen reactive oxygen species, lessen inflammatory markers like nuclear factor kappa beta cyclo oxygenase to lipo oxygenase, and they use an outside third party to Rheinland to assess this and to ensure that there's an outside source looking to say, is there the rigor being met, is there the global compliance being met, and the answer is yes. So this is a gentleman back in 2005 we call him Shafi, and I met him back, and I think it was maybe January of this year, Dr. Swathies worked with him and educated for him for a little bit longer, so she can share more about this, but he comes from an engineering, chemistry, and integrative medicine mindset, and he was the one saying, How did I have come around? So imagine same thing about classical Chinese medicine, or traditional Chinese medicine, or shamanism, or whatever the medicine is. Whoever thought of this, why did they think of it? But one of the things you notice is there was always a chanting associated with it, and was that energy being imparted? So he started looking to see, is there energy being imparted, call it intent, but at a physiological physics level, is there a change, and of course we know the answer is yes, and the physics now delineates that quite clearly. So I'm going to play a video on the next one. It's only three minutes long. If it's not working, please let somebody shout out for me,

Bill Clearfield  41:16
you A

Speaker 8  41:29
mortar sings, hands move, breath matches mantra. Rhythm wasn't decoration, it was method. We carry that forward. The chant becomes a controlled frequency, the cadence a reproducible process. What elders called energizing, we now guide with measured vibration, bringing the extract into order, so the body can use it well. What if a herbal extract could be tuned? First, we expose the extract to our proprietary frequency. Microscopic structures POLARIZE and align, random becomes ordered. Meet the spring, nudge it, and it holds a promise energy that wants to return. The more the bend, the more it holds. Next, we crystalize the extract in a crystal. Each part has a tiny home under a tuned field. That point shifts a minute distance, like a ball nudged up a bowl, creating a gentle preload, a spring held just off center. Chemistry stays the same. The structure is organized and lightly tensioned inside the lattice. Vibrations travel as tiny waves, phonons, the material. I'm, I'll. I'll. Narcatincrys by shaping structure stability and release. We aim to make it easier to absorb, supporting natural antioxidant defenses. When the body uses more of what you take, a smaller serving can feel enough. Quantum Ayurveda, ancient rhythm, modern method from chaos to tune,

Speaker 1  43:55
so interesting. Needless to say, and they've also done research, and I, we can speak to it at another time. They've actually, NASA has identified certain frequencies for certain organs, and some of us are familiar with frequency medicine, some of sort of familiar with PMF maths, and all of the above. But now take this to this level of botanical. I chose a random structure here, but the best Lewis structure is a hybrid of the three resident forms, and so the question is, they gave the example of a spring, but what happens if we have an example of what is the best frequency or tone for a given botanical, and maybe it's Boswellia, maybe it's ginkgo, maybe it's something some other plant, but each one will have its unique happy place as a spring, not oversprung, but not undersprung. And I found it fascinating. And many of us remember when we were taking physics to get to our terminal degrees in undergraduate, we learned about sine waves, and at first, and when there is that ongoing constant wave action, we of course have a bigger wave, and there's two ways to get our well, there's three ways to get your feet wet on walking on the beach, or walking along with somebody, they can push you in the water, that's one, two lots of little waves out in the ocean, or big waves can stack up, and they'll wash upon the shore, and so it's like, so is it one big wave or lots of little waves, and so this is working on the concept, and this is my perception. This is how I, Chris's mind, looked at this technology. He's like, okay, it's like wave action. It's like they're washing up upon the shore, and if we can go ahead and see that washing up up the shore, the same amount of water, but with the right timing, it's going to go up the shore a lot longer and a lot further. So this was kind of, a, having, I, I, I, HSN, so, now, the Rn, technology, Ry, Ty's, Genson's, they, B, Isis, I, Mass, R, I, T, I, N, I, L, I lattice, is successfully stored the energy. They identify the specific frequency, once again, reproducibility is key here. And then they keep that frequency for that particular botanical, and this step ensures reproducibility and stability, and they're measuring these peak levels along the way, and what's intriguing is what they're not finding is as intriguing as what they are finding. Noteworthy, there's no deterioration and no change in the structure itself, but there's also no degradation bands around the 17 to 1750 wavelength for the carboxyl groups, and there's no broad changes in the 32 to 3500 wavelength typical for a breakdown in the king that there's been a breaking of the curcumin bone, so we're talking about tumor cure, obviously. So it's interesting to see that the shift is occurring, but they're looking to ensure the plant does not bio transform into something else, because then all of a sudden it's not going to be curmin, it's going to be some other structure, but it maintains its structural integrity, and they're looking for certain areas where it could otherwise have a change in the molecular structure. So they've been doing clinical trials, and once again, the ASHWAGANDHA and Dr. Swathi will speak very well to this as a PharmD, they've done the ashwagandha, they've done the berberine, they've done the turmeric, and now they're doing these two trials on the combination, the nerve product and the female balancing product, for lack of a better descriptor, and the key here is to look for the reproducibility, how does it work, and then they're looking for the fingerprint, they're looking for something called an optical optical magnetic test, such as a magneto photoluminescence and the photoluminescence lifetime. How long does the signal last? And then the electro paramagnetic resonance, and this is their identification that it has imprinted. And then in the blue, you can see that it's actually been trying to alter not only reactive oxygen species, but also help with the mitochondrial membrane potential, just like we have a cellular membrane potential, we have a mitochondrial membrane potential, and then the intracellular photoluminescence uptake. So they're looking at all of this in structure very methodically, they're not racing any place to deliver more products, and that's actually one of the things that caught my attention. They could just say, "Okay, well, we've energized all these products and look at all these products we have. No, they're going methodical. They ensuring that each step of the way they're doing it in a very methodical fashion. Remember, and this all started back in 2005 so it's been a long, arduous process of love and intention, and the other thing is they're looking to ensure not only a GMP and ISO compliance, but it's halal, it's kosher, it meets the standards for India as well, relative to Ayurveda in the community, and so it's well thought out, and I'm intrigued, I have not yet been able to use any clinical practice, I'm waiting to start using it a for myself and some of my patients, because how many adrenal patients do I have? A lot. How many long COVID patients I have? More than I ever imagined I would have. And it's a whole nother talk for another presentation that I presented before on long COVID, but it's like there's a massive quantity of people suffered from long COVID. There's a sheer number of people that are suffering from ongoing chronic fatigue syndrome, the Epstein Barr virus, hydro megalovirus, all these other herpes six viruses, and just worn out adrenal glands, which of course alter steroidogenesis, and of course we all remember that the mitochondria is where cholesterol enters, makes pregnenolone, which starts all of once again steroidogenesis, that upstream, downstream, and once again back to the mitochondria. So, taking care of the mitochondria is intriguing, and one of the things I'm hoping to see with some of this research is more research with the quantum Ayurveda and the mitochondria, and just a recap, we all remember that which hormone directly has a receptor at the mitochondrial membrane level t3 so think when we're measuring our free t3 levels, if that free t3 is sub par, then the mitochondria is not being driven, and of course between the ultra, basically metronome, the thyroid, the orchestra leader, and then the mitochondria that fuels those orders. It's like you can see how these come together. So, when I start seeing changes of mitochondrial function, I start thinking PQ two, I start thinking NAD support, and I start thinking things like that until Q 10 and Pyroquinone. And so it's intriguing to see these combinations, so what they're looking at here is the rock reading, and it's a non-conventional energy these frequencies are using. They're using Helmholtz coils and assuming resonance of 7.83 hertz radio frequency wavelengths and omega and gigahertz formats are not radiation like the CMA said at low intensity focus ultrasound and pulse electromagnetic fields, and so they're nudging the orbits, they're nudging the hydrogen molecules, and we all remember our octets, oxygen becomes an octet by bonding to itself, welcome to oxygen, and we see all these different completing, you know, can you complete me, of course, that's what we're doing in chemistry, so we're looking to see how do we increase those hydrogen bond networks and dial in a specific frequency, and that's what they're doing, and then they're looking at the subtle things, and then you see here on the right-hand side what it reveals. So this stage of characterizing the detection phase, they've changed the frequency and molecular resonance, so they're looking for subtle changes in hydrogen bonding, stretching, and bands - are they tighter, are they looser? They're looking to changes in crystallinity. Does the extract become more amorphous? It has more soluble, so they've actually looked at that crystallinity, and once again, solubility. Then they looked at altered melting and transition temperatures, making new polymorph for all for stability, the fingerprint of the region that confirms the conformation changes, and then they're looking at the Nanometer scale bending or folding of the phytochemical backbone, but thus far 12x 16x 18x for those three herbs we mentioned earlier, it's like fairly remarkable, needless to say, if we were to do this, like I said, with a drug, it's like, wow, a billion dollar company here. So the question is, and they're always concerned about this, because they want to make sure that they stay safe, because if we impart an energy, are we staying safe? So did the treated extract gain stronger biologic activity? Is it testable absorption improvement? Do the Caco stays on this, and does the new form survive gastric conditions and reach target issues? So that's part of the clinical trials. Tahira, one of the head researchers, has done the study. I'm sorry for the poor res. I can get you all of this information and more if you're interested, because I look at our group, your group, which I'm honored to be part of, so as I say, our group, your thinkers, you're wondering what's next, and we all know that we stand on the backs of the men and women that came before us that also ask that same question, what about so this is a what about question, what about this technology, so what about as we were discussing earlier with Dr. Nargo, what about may it or may not? We don't know, but we have to ask the what about, opposed to just being told we have to put our blinders on, and that's what I love about your group, your expansive thinkers. So we see the attributes of the residents informed extract substantially higher peak plasma levels across the board, and once again we're seeing the same thing with the nerve as well as female product, significant area under the curve for long half life, reduced dosing, and that reduced dosing says, "Hey, I can now do a liquid. So, what happens if you try to get a kid to take something? Well, they can't swallow, and I have adults that literally cannot swallow capsules, and I learned that the hard way. A woman I met back in 1993 one year after I graduated, was having digestive problems. I suggested, digestive enzyme, I had no idea. She, she never told me, I never thought about as a new doc, she does not swallow capsules, so she opened up the bay teenage cell in proteolytic enzymes swallowed it, swallowed at the end of her meal, and her esophaca started hurting. Yeah, because they're proteolytic enzymes, they start digesting you if they're not digesting meat or other substances. Lo and behold, so but imagine, why does a Flintstone vitamin or another dummy vitamin have such 12 milligram doses of things, because you can't deliver the payload, because these things don't taste very good. Minerals don't taste good, BioMESTER don't taste good, and a lot of herbs do not taste good. They're by nature tastes like dirt, and no disrespect to herbs, but they aren't always so good. And so it's like, wow, can you imagine a very small dose? Now you can be in a gummy, and that still has a huge therapeutic effect, not in terms of the peak level, but also the duration, because even at a smaller level it's going to still have that protracted period of time one would expect, and so they're looking to attune, verify, prove, and match, and the logic becomes clear that they're looking at de risking each step of the way, because the last thing they wanted to do is cause harm, you want to be true to the Ayurvedic tradition and history, and augment it, so we don't have somebody chanting and parting intention. We can pray over our food, we can wish somebody blessings, but we don't have somebody say, 'Here, let this medicine be good for you, unless you're a very mindful person, but if you can have that mindfulness imparted via a frequency much like if you had a person from 3000 years ago doing Ayurvedic medicine for you or one of your ancestors, it's like, wow, to that medicine have been stronger than our current medicine, that's just a bottle, a plastic bottle shipped overseas with who knows what, of course, once again the delivery mechanism, and I think I still remember, even though my mom's passed her chocolate chip cookies. There's nothing like the love of mom's chocolate chip cookies. Was there something special about them that her recipe was a generic recipe? Was that a better Crocker cookbook? I think you can taste the love. So the question is, can you taste intent or vibration? So once again, the fingerprints, the tracking of the frequencies, and from a reproducibility perspective, they are finding the reproducibility very clear, very simple, and long term, and they've not seen any degradation over years of this important frequency, and that's one of the questions I had. It's like, so how long is it good for? Like a day, a week, a month, years at this frequency, because of the crystalline structure, it maintains it instability, and it has extended shelf life as well. They've done the accelerated shelf lives that, if you're familiar with pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals, they'll say, okay, we're going to expose it to this much heat, this much exposures, and noxious substances, and see whether or not it degrades, and it does not degrade, and so I think the key here would be that the frequencies are imparted, and once again, I'm gonna have Dr. Swatley speak more clearly to this, but if you look here at the conclusion, the curman QA showed more than a 20 fold increase BIOAVAILABILITY in comparison to a standardized currman, so it's like, okay, so do I use currman in my clinical practice? Yes. Do I use fancy pharmaceutical currman to process a blood brain barrier or a phytosome? Yes, but none of them have this kind of street cred, so to speak. So I'm intrigued to see, does it help with my neurological patients? Does it help with my patients that are trying not to use NSAIDs or not to use a biological drug. Can I lessen their inflammatory sites and improve the quality of life? And so I think what we're going to do here, because some of these look redundant, all this, and I'm not sure why, is just speak to the competitive edge. It allows for market differentiation, so if you're a formulator, you know people that are formulated, clearly it's probably a market differentiation. It allows for gummies, liquids, powder formats, and it requires less masking. You want to start having to add flavors, artificial or natural, and sugars, once again, not things that we need. It's not going to be physiologically beneficial. And this last weekend I was listening to a series of lectures at the AAMP, Dr. Paul Anderson's group, and they said, well, what about using black pepper to increase bioavailability? What do you think about that? And he asked a philosophical question, one of the speakers, he says, you know how that works, it's down-regulating body's clearance of the botanicals, so he asked the question, if we're using piperine in the black pepper extract to increase augmentation of the bioavailability, or what happens to the fact that you're now not your poison and detoxification pathways and other pathways, all for the benefit of increased bioavailability. I never thought of that. If I had learned nothing out of the lecture. I learned lots of things out of the three days of lectures. Like, wow, think about it. If we're closing out a pathway in order to increase BIOAVAILABILITY and just deleterious effects, and that violates do no harm. So lots of C of A's in showing the documentation of each step of the way of the various botanicals, they also do have botanicals which have not yet been energized with acoustic resonance, so they have a wide variety of other high-quality Ayurvedic herbs, but the ones we've highlighted are the ones that are really cutting-edge and really the difference, the QA, the quantum Ayurveda versus the status quo, they have the clinical trials, quantity of less quantity, greater bioavailability, a more full spectrum whole plant, and the technologist is advancing the duration of the, I'll call it medication drug in the body, and it allows the body and the cells have increased accessibility. So Schaffy Amit is the one on the right in the blue. He is the pharmacist with Nutrify today. They're different individuals, different companies, but they've collaborated to advance the medicine, and of course it takes a team to win. And so some of the team members showing once again how can they deliver this in an efficient reproducible faction, so I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Swathi, colleague of mine, super brilliant, and she might actually share with you, and I'm going to encourage you to, that she was awarded the first residency, and in what Dr. Swathi

Speaker 3  1:00:37
in integrative medicine and preventative health in the US, specifically for pharmacists, so actually, when I was in my training in pharmacy school, I realized I wanted to be a part of the preventative health and integrative medicine conversation. Of course, there were platforms and programs and everything already for naturopathic physicians, for conventional physicians, allopathic physicians, but there was no program at that point for pharmacists, and so I sought out a mentor, and we actually created the first ever and still only integrative health focused residency program that is targeted to pharmacists interested in creating a pathway in this field. So, yeah, so I had the pleasure of helping to create that program, but also be the first resident, so very passionate about integrative medicine, and so happy to be here today to continue the conversation about quantum Ayurveda, and continue from where Dr. Meletes left off. So, as an integrative pharmacist, you know, I'm very interested in botanical innovation on the whole, and you know, when I first started learning about quantum Ayurveda, through, you know, through Schaffy, through Dr. Ahmed, through, through everyone at at Greenspace Herbs. I knew that I wanted to be a part of this, because, you know, like you, I love thinking about what's next, and thinking about how I can be a part of that, and at the end of the day, how can we better improve patient outcomes? Right at the end of the day, that's the goal. So, as healthcare providers, we know that patients are already using botanical products. I mean, the global botanical market is projected to exceed 500 billion by 2030 Honestly, I think it could be higher than that, and you know, especially as we're thinking about botanical products, curcumin, ashwagandha, berberine, you know, a lot of these botanicals are used in the context of stress, metabolic health, inflammation, healthy aging, and just overall resilience, and so you know consumers and clinicians are increasingly thinking about how we can measure accuracy and efficacy of these products, and you know, before the conversation was more around, you know, has this botanical been used, and like, how has it been used, but now the question is becoming, you know, how is it measurable, reproducible, and and how can these products actually be clinically meaningful for patients? So, you know, one of the major limitations with so many of the botanicals out there right now is the bioavailability, and actually, Dr. Miletus talked a little to that already, and you know some compounds that might look promising, and like in vitro, and like traditional use, you know, they have potential, but also they have poor solubility, they have rapid metabolism, or they could even have have a limited systemic exposure after, you know, being adjusted orally, so this matters clinically, because a patient can take a product consistently, but only a small amount of the active component may actually be reaching the systemic circulation, know that whether that is in a gummy format, oral, or otherwise. So, improving absorption and systemic exposure is not only, you know, a product development issue. It's also like an issue that is going to impact, you know, how these products are working overall. And so I think this is why we need a new framework to think about evaluating botanicals, and I think Ayurveda and Quantum Ayurveda are a part of that. Next slide. All right, and so diving a little bit deeper into Ayurveda, some of you might know a little bit about this, but I wanted to give a little bit more context for those who are maybe a little, you know, new to understanding what Ayurveda is. So Ayurveda is a traditional medical system that is from India, and it's 1000s of years old, and the word Ayurveda is actually translated from Sanskrit to mean the science of life, and what's important here is to know that Ayurveda has, you know, always viewed health from a whole person, whole person lens or perspective, and that considers everything from like digestion, metabolism, constitution, even like stress response, sleep environment, mind body balance, so many of these different aspects, and for healthcare providers like us, this is relevant because so many of our patients do not experience, you know, health concerns and isolated categories, because you know stress affects sleep and sleep affects metabolism, and metabolism can then impact inflammation, and inflammation, you know, impacts energy and resilience, and and it's all just an ongoing cycle. And so the systems-based perspective is one of the reasons why botanicals remain so clinically interesting, because many botanicals don't actually work in the body is like a single target pharmaceutical, and we'll talk a little bit more about that, because there are multiple compounds in a botanical, and therefore they have a multitude of impacts on the body. So, the purpose of this conversation is not to replace the modern evidence with traditional concepts, it's actually to talk about how these traditional botanical systems and systems like Ayurveda from this whole person approach can then be impacted through modern tools including Pharmacokinetics and spectroscopy and some of the things that Dr. Meletes touched on. All right, next slide. Great, so diving into Ayurveda a little bit more. I wanted to talk about one of the core principles called doshas. So, in Ayurveda, there are three primary doshas: Vata, Pitta, and Kapha. And these are traditionally understood as kind of like regulatory patterns in the body. Vata is associated with movement, communication, and nervous system activity, Pitta is associated with metabolism, oftentimes transformation, and also enzymatic processes, and Kapha is oftentimes associated with stability and structure and resilience, and so the key takeaway here is that we do not need to practice Ayurveda in a traditional way to understand the framework, it's more important to think about how Ayurveda has, you know, long recognized individual variability, and so much of what we're talking about, you know, not only today but in, like, the forefront and innovation of integrative medicine is about how we need to think about personalizing therapies and how different people may respond differently to the same food or herb or stress letter or intervention, and so this concept is highly aligned with how we now discuss, you know, these systems, biology, genomics, metabolism, micro, you know, like microbe science, all of these things, and how we can really relate it to the person, all right. So, a little bit about energetic mapping and traditional medicine. So, Dr. Meleteus mentioned this briefly. You know, traditional systems, such as Ayurveda and traditional Chinese medicine, they also use this language of energy. So, in Ayurveda, this is often described as prana, and in traditional Chinese medicine, it's described as qi. So, for many clinicians, this language can feel kind of abstract, but there really is a bridge to modern biology, because human physiology is not purely chemical, it's also electrochemical and biophysical, and cells rely on membrane potentials and iron gradients and mitochondrial electron transport and protein conformational changes and electron signaling, so you know, while traditional systems and modern science use different terminology, I think we can agree that, you know, both recognize the biological function really does depend on movement and signaling and energy transfer and balance, and to me that is one of the bridges to quantum Ayurveda, because this framework is looking at, you know, energetic, vibrational, and conformational states of change within the botanical matrix, and how, you know we measure that, how we verify that, and how we could potentially look at that, and its optimization can really impact what that means for a patient. All right. Next slide. Yep. So you know, thinking about it from a pharmacist's perspective, I think that this is where the conversation becomes really interesting, because we're not thinking about this just as like a single target, you know. So much of my pharmacy, you know, education was about, okay, how do we look at pharmacology from the single target perspective, and then how do we actually, you know, my residency, and a lot of the work I've done since, is really thinking about bridging that to the systems-based approach, and so you know, much of the conventional pharmacology is built on this model, you know, one molecule, one target, single outcome, and so that model is useful in, you know, pharmaceutical development, but botanicals behave differently. A botanical extract can, can, can, you know, include dozens or even hundreds of constituents that can influence multiple pathways at once. A classic example of this is St. John's Wort, which has been studied, you know, in comparison to SSRIs in mild to moderate depression. And the point is not to compare, you know, or substitute therapies casually. The point is that botanicals often operate in a broader network, and a broader, you know, this broader network has effects that can impact a number of things, like neurotransmitter signaling and inflammatory pathways and neuroendocrine activity, and lots of other things as well. So, you know, this means that we need a broader evaluation model or framework. The question is, you know, not only, okay, what is the active compound, but it's rather, you know, how does this full botanical system behave in the body, and so this comes back to, you know, ad me, or you know, absorption, metabolism, systemic exposure, and and also the patient response. All right, so now thinking about, you know, whole plant synergy versus the isolated active, so this is taking this exact concept and bringing it to a bigger scale, so you know this is where it really becomes clinically relevant, because in many botanical products the focus is on the one standardized active compound, as I mentioned, so for like if we're going to use, you know, CURCUMINOIDS and curcumin, for example, there are, you know, those there are with the Withanolides within the ashwagandha, there's Berberine contact within Berberine extracts, but you know, standardization is so valuable, as Dr. Melitus mentioned, with some of the technology that that green space is utilizing with, with, you know all of the residents and everything, because we need this consistency, and you know the surrounding botanical matrix that includes you know polyphenols and terpenes and and alkaloids and other co factors can all influence the way that these botanicals are functioning within the body and so you know, Bioavailability is not just determined by the active. The real kill to key takeaway here is that it's not just the ingredient, but rather, you know, how the ingredient is going to function in the body and its physiological impact. All right, so you know, we take a look at physiology on a cellular level. Biology is dynamic, and so cells function through membrane potentials, ion gradients, mitochondrial signaling, electron transport, and you know other things you mentioned before. You know, protein conformational changes, so you know a lot of botanical pro, a lot of a lot of sorry, botanical product development has focused primarily on increasing concentration, so you know, more milligrams, more standardized marker compounds. You know, how do we get more into the body? And those details are helpful, but they don't actually predict necessarily what happens after ingestion. Dr. Meletus also spoke to this as well, that a higher dose does not necessarily mean higher systemic exposure, and you know, higher systemic exposure also doesn't automatically mean some sort of higher clinical or higher clinical outcome, or even like a more desired clinical outcome, and so this is why Pharmacokinetic data is so useful, because Pharmacokinetics can actually help us understand after this product is ingested by the patient, or it's taken in the capacity that it is administered, you know, how much is absorbed, how quickly does it peak, how long can we actually, like, have it, you know, remain measurable, and then, you know, how does that compare to, like, a standardized extract or a placebo, and so, you know, this really brings us to the conversation of Quantum Ayurveda. So, Quantum Ayurveda, as you know, Dr. Meletes mentioned, you know, is a resonance-informed framework for botanical optimization, and it is, you know, a trademark term from this company, Greenspice Herbs, and it is looking at a number of this, these different aspects, like AI-supported molecular modeling and Raman spectral fingerprinting, and bringing it all together to take Ayurveda to this next step to really personalize therapies for patients, and really this framework is, you know, to make the traditionally subtle concept, measurable, and to do this through, you know, like decades of research that Greenspan's herb has been doing, and it's asking whether the botanicals' molecular and energetic state can be characterized, whether it can be reproduced, and then, like, what that actually means from a Pharmacokinetic standpoint, and then at the end of the day, of course, like, what does that mean for the patient? So, what we're going to do next is dive into some of the studies in more granular detail that have been done from a Pharmacokinetic perspective. So, the first one is the Berberine QA study. So, this is the Berberine Botanical Compound, you know, that you know, you might be familiar with, especially in, you know, conversations around metabolic health and endocrine endocrine concerns. So, you know, Berberine has been known for Bioavailability challenges, as you may or may not know, and so it's great to see, you know, the this study that has been done by Greenspice Herbs, and in this human Pharmacokinetic study, Berberine QA was compared to a standard Berberine chlorine, standard Berberine chloride, and as you can see, it was 500 milligrams of the standardized Berberine QA from green space herbs, and the 500 standard Berberine HCL with a 97 percentage and so this study was randomized, double blind, and crossover. There was a seven day washout, and the participants, they received one single dose. It was a single dose design, and the plasma Berberine concentrations were measured through a validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectroscopy, or like I'll just refer to it as LC MS dash MS, for for the case of this, and really some of the standout aspects of the studies that you know the Berberine QA had approximately an 18 times higher plasma peak concentration, and about a four times higher total systemic exposure, and had a faster time to peak, and a longer elimination half life, compared to the standard berberine. So, I mean, this suggests that the ingredient achieved meaningfully higher systemic exposure. So, for us as healthcare providers, this is relevant because systemic exposure is one of them, one of the important pieces of understanding how the botanical may perform in the body, of course, like we don't have the, you know, clinical outcomes yet, that's the next step in doing these studies, but to understand that, wow, like this really the CMAX, the AUC, like there were actually so many beneficial impacts just looking from a PK perspective, that this is a great jumping off point to continue doing further studies for Berberine QA. The next one is the Ashwagandha QA study, so this, this was the second study done by by Greenspice Herbs, specifically, you know, Ashwagandha has been commonly discussed in the context of, you know, stress, sleep, mood, physical performance, and a number of other, a number of other conditions, and so in this study, Ashwagandha QA was compared to a standard extract that contained 2.5% Withanolides and the study was also randomized, double blind crossover single dose study, and the plasma total Withanolides were measured with the LCMS dash MS. The Ashwagandha QA demonstrated that there was approximately a 5.6 times higher plasma peak concentration at approximately 18 times higher total systemic exposure. Dr. Meleedes showed that incredible graph that came from this study earlier in his chat, where you could see the drastic change and the drastic difference rather between the Ashwagandha QA and the standardized extract, and also the Ashwagandha QA showed a longer elimination half life and longer mean residence time. So, interestingly, the time to peak was actually similar, which suggests that the difference may relate more to the total exposure and retention rather than simply just a faster absorption and a Pharmacokinetic profile like this one that shows you know higher more sustained systemic exposure can help us inform how we think about dosing and consistency and how we can incorporate an ingredient like this to really have the better the more desirable patient outcomes, so of course the Pharmacokinetic data should be interpreted as, like, you know, this like first layer of evidence, and once we have more information about the clinical outcomes associated, I think that this particular ingredient in the way that the technology has really been incorporated really can have have amazing impacts in the way that we're thinking about using Ashwagandha for therapeutic impact, and the final one that we'll talk about today is the curcumin QA study. So, curcumin, as you probably know, you know, is one of the most widely recognized botanicals, and especially in this study we were able to see the impact of how this technology really has, you know, the potential to be really a marker in the space, so you know, in this study, curcumin QA was compared to a 95% standard curcuminoid extract, and participants received a single dose 500 milligram oral oral administration under non-fasted conditions, which is useful because I think it reflects actually a more real-world supplement use pattern versus a fasted condition, and the plasma total CURCUMINOIDS were measured over 24 hours, the curcumin, the curcumin QA showed approximately a 20 fold higher total systemic exposure by AUC, and approximately a 22 fold higher peak concentration compared with the standard extract, so you know not only did it, you know, reach the peak plasma levels faster with detectable levels appearing like after 15 to 30 minutes, it also showed this total systemic exposure and the higher peak concentration. So, you know, again, this is not claiming a clinical outcome, but I think it's really meaningful to talk about this preliminary Pharmacokinetic evidence showing that this ingredient behave differently in the body than a standard extract, so what these Pharmacokinetic findings mean. So, when we look across berberine, ashwagandha, QA, Berberine QA, curcumin QA, we see a consistent pattern that each of these quantum Ayurveda ingredients from greens herbs really did demonstrate a higher systemic exposure when compared to just the standardized extract that is out there, and in so many other formulas, and for, you know, for healthcare providers like us, this is important because it reinforces that not all botanical extracts are interchangeable, it shows why, you know, the label of the dose can be misleading, but also it's not the be all end all story of like whether or not a dose is going to be a great fit for a patient for a specific therapeutic indication or condition, and it also highlights the value of Pharmacokinetic Pharmacokinetic data when evaluating, you know, how we're going to think about botanical ingredients, and it also like helps us have a more evidence-informed way to discuss botanical performance within within patients and within different formulas, so you know clinically it is nuanced, and you know now we're asking questions more aligned to like what amount actually reaches reaches systemic circulation for how long, and you know why? Does this really matter, and what is it actually going to mean? So these results do matter to you, and they can also matter to your patients, because you know these findings demonstrate that you know, like reading labels, comparing products, all these things are really important, and you know it's our role to help patients understand what the right products is, product is for them, but also how the right ingredients can really fit into their full, you know, comprehensive treatment regimen, and Quantum Ayurveda brings together traditional botanical knowledge, modern analytical chemistry, this AI-supported molecular modeling, and then the re-minant formed verification, and also like putting it together with this Pharmacokinetic research. I think is really compelling, and it really is that first next best step to figuring out, you know, what sort of ingredients are going to, you know, really make an impact in botanical formulas. So, to close, you know, we really thank you for your time, Dr. Meletus, and I have had the pleasure of working with Greenspice Herbs for, for quite a while now, and we've really enjoyed learning about this research, and you know, we're very interested in an innovation and trying to understand, you know, what's new, what's next, and so it's great to share this kind of information with, with like-minded folks like, like all of you. So, if you'd like to learn more about Greenspace herbs, definitely reach out to our colleague Greg, who's the head of North American sales. His email and phone number are at the bottom of the screen, and also Dr. Meletes and I are happy to stay on and answer any additional questions you might have about anything that we shared today.

Speaker 1  1:23:50
Certainly, thank you, Dr. Swathi.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:52
Thank you, Dr. Swathi, and Dr. Meleedis. So I know you sort of covered this, but could you reiterate again, if you're increasing the availability of these, of these, you know, substances, don't you run into situations where, where you know the doses that at least we're used to are become toxic if they're, if they're that much more available,

Speaker 1  1:24:21
and I'll speak to that, and clearly Dr. as a foreign D, can I think that we adjusted doses. I think this graph that catches my attention is when less is more, and so if we look over here at the area under the curve way up here someplace, and all my blabberine. It's like I think I would, as a clinician, and of course we all are clinicians, you know, it's this longer duration that catches my attention. So, would I go as high? Possibly not. The other thing is, since there's other Actives in some of these plants, that sometimes when you get a large enough dose of anything, it's an irritant to the GI tract, and so I would probably lower the dose many x fold, but I'm also counting on the long-term duration myself. So, but yes, I think you have to be aware of these are pharmacological toxicities. So, Dr. Swap, you thoughts?

Speaker 3  1:25:20
Yeah, absolutely, I was, I was going to say the same thing. It's more of like thinking about how long it's going to be sustained in the body and what that means. And then, of course, as a pharm system, also thinking about what other products, whether it's like pharmaceutical products, like the medications themselves, what other botanicals, what are their minerals, like what other supplements that the patient is taking and taking that like whole person approach to understand like what sort of dose would actually make the best sense to just really optimize the risk versus benefit ratio,

Speaker 1  1:25:51
and I'll add that both I think all of us are very aware of drug nutrient and botanical nutrient and interactions, and both doctors watching have been working in that area, so when you can do a smaller quantity, you potentially have a better received substance with less deleterious interactions, would be my argument.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:10
Have you run across anything where you have higher availability and a higher dose has different, you get different properties than from lower availability and lower dose, and I always go back to Naltrexone and low dose Naltrexone, and then we've been, we've been seeing quite a few patients with the post finasteride syndrome. I don't know if you're familiar with that.

Speaker 1  1:26:35
Oh, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:26:36
the patients that take the one milligram seem to have worse effects than those that had to take the five milligram, that they seem to be get have worse outcomes, and more frequently this post finasteride syndrome, and of course you know when it first first started bubbling up, we'd say, oh, you know, that doesn't matter, doesn't make any sense, but why would they be, why would they have more side effects at one milligram than at five, and you know, and again, and you know, a lot of times we'll, we'll, for our autoimmune patients, we use here, we use a lot of low dose naltrexone, and I have to, I mean, I have a handout, I have, you know, they have to make sure that they, you know, because they'll look up, they'll just look up Naltrexone, and they'll see. So, I'm not an alcoholic. What did you give me this for? Have you run into that with these, you know, with these, these more, you know, these, these more concentrated, higher, higher availability, even at lower doses?

Speaker 1  1:27:36
Not in a clinical setting yet, but I like to go through what Dr. Swathi spoke about cell physiology and membrane potential. Everything in our body is such a finite amount of something. We're talking about milli voltage, we're talking about so much sodium, so much magnesium. We do RBC magnesium, RBC zincs. I think this is where this technology could apply really nicely, where we give an infinitesimally small amount, but with the right resonance, that actually is better received, but I'll speak to how Dr. Swatley speak to, and I use a lot of logo snot tracks out of my practice as well. Dr. Swotley, you have any thoughts about what Dr. Clearfield was asking?

Speaker 3  1:28:19
No, I think it's a fair point. It's just at this time we don't have any additional information from the clinical setting, though. However, I do think it will be interesting to follow up once we have the clinical data from the compound products that that the Green Space Herbs is doing the clinical studies right now, and then the next step after these Pharmacokinetic studies is Green Space Herbs is looking to do the clinical outcome studies based on now that they have the Pharmacokinetic data, so once we have more information, I'd love to share, but I don't, but I don't have any concrete info at the time,

Speaker 1  1:28:52
and when we do, we'd love to come back and share it, because we're also watching the burgeoning field, and since this is a new revolutionary technology, like I said, they're going very systematic and methodical of doing the Caco studies or the kinetic studies, and then ensuring all of that.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:10
So, are these products available?

Speaker 1  1:29:13
The product is available just entering the United States in the last couple of months, so it's available.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:22
How expensive are they versus, you know, a regular curcumin?

Speaker 1  1:29:28
Quite affordable right now. There's a couple of very large nutraceutical companies that we're familiar with in the full script space looking to bring them on. At this juncture, they're not in bottled form, they're in large bulk form in the United States, so it's going to be manufactured, and

Bill Clearfield  1:29:45
I have to cook them up in my basement, then, right?

Speaker 1  1:29:49
You could, and or spend all your spare time encapsulating them with what

Bill Clearfield  1:29:55
I was gonna say, that's that sounds like a job for Dr. Narrow, you know, you know, we're at the point now where we need those glasses, so you know, not like these young people here, right?

Speaker 1  1:30:09
So,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:10
Mario, do you have any questions online?

Speaker 4  1:30:13
Yeah, so that was a good presentation. I didn't realize they can integrate AI now to Ayurveda, too, but so the one of the questions here would be, of course, as you, as you were saying, that the lower doses of these specific, I guess, botanicals actually still reaches a higher bioavailability, bioavailability, thus getting your clinical response that you wanted to get, so that's amplified. Does it mean also in terms of side effects that is also amplified? So, like for example, berberine, right? We don't want that to be taken for a long time, because it kills the microbiome a stead. I haven't seen that before, but if you take it for a longer period of time, but it sounds like you actually went through the positives, would you accentuate the negatives as well with this technology?

Speaker 1  1:31:08
You have to be determined. I would love to, and I'm going to encourage them to do a microbiome study with the Berberine to see whether or not there's an alteration, just like I find curmin and turmeric at times a little irritating for my sensitive GI patients, and just too much for them. So, I think what I'm seeing as the whole peer is much smaller doses in a much more deliverable fashion, and I like the longer prolonged half life and mean residence time, because it allows for better compliance and better physiological response to have an anti-inflammatory and adaptogenic over an extended period of time, so I'm hoping that the folks that are going to be manufacturing this into available supplements, opposed to bulk powder, are going to be taking that into consideration, and I'm sure Dr. Swap the Iran offering insights through those formulators.

Speaker 3  1:32:03
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, that was my first question when I heard about the, when I heard about the outcomes also of the PK studies. Was so, what does that mean about side effects? So I'm just as intrigued to hear the answer and see the outcome after the after the clinical studies, and we'll keep you in the loop once we know

Speaker 6  1:32:22
for sure,

Speaker 4  1:32:22
right? I think it's just a question that came from the perspective of a double-edged sword, you get all the pluses, but there's sometimes there will be a catch to this, but again, I hope not, if I'm wrong, AI does wonderful things, and it seems like this device that you got really is interesting. It's almost like it reminds me of homeopathy, but not homeopathy, is that you're transferring sound waves, but for homeopathy, you do succussion and dilution, and you get the smallest dose that you need for the body to get stimulated to make it function in a physiological way to repair itself, but again, it's definitely not homeopathy, but there's some similarities to it. So, anyway, it's just fascinating to me. Another question here, so you, you put out all the studies that you had, and these are all showing clinical outcomes in terms of the drug qualities, the curve, the area under the curves, the right, but are there studies that are showing now the clinical outcomes for patients if these specific remedies have achieved the curcumin NF kappa B tumor nicopus alpha, those type of specific parameters has have you gone in that far yet, or this is too early of a question for these specific products.

Speaker 1  1:33:50
Um, that's the next step is large human clinical trials. The most advanced ones are the Female Heal QA, as well as a Nervithera QA. QA, where they're actually doing clinical trials and end points to see how does it improve with nerve pain or how to stop with hormonal and mental and muscle skeletal well-being, so they already are getting the other studies in the queue, so to speak, and to hear one of the head scientists over there actually have several projects in the works to answer exactly those questions.

Speaker 4  1:34:30
All right, well, those are the, yeah, the questions that I have. So

Speaker 1  1:34:34
they're great questions, and they're same questions Dr. Swat, and I have too, as clinicians.

Speaker 4  1:34:38
Yeah, everybody's curious about this, especially when you, you know, you won't go wrong when you put the AI word out there and include it in a specific product, you're just going to get all the interest in the world. So this is definitely something that's very, very interesting as you move forward with this project.

Speaker 5  1:34:58
Can I ask a question.

Speaker 4  1:35:01
Go ahead, Josh.

Speaker 5  1:35:02
Well, okay. I like yoga, meditation, Eastern philosophy. Ayurveda is fascinating, and I think in this presentation, where you talk about quantum and the scientific approach, you're bringing Ayurveda to a new level. You're talking about modern science, and it's very exciting. Well, my teacher, Dr. Mishra, he called Sanskrit the science of vibration, and traditionally, when you read the Ayurveda text, they say the Rishis perform some Yama on the plants, which is a deep meditation, and richis were like holy men, and that's how they got the knowledge. Now, what's interesting about Ayurveda, you also have Bosmas, which are special Ayurvedic actions, and sometimes they involve metals, whatever, right, and I have online a series of videos called Fire Ceremony and Crystal Healing, and I was, you know, my documentary used to open people's third eye by doing, you know, home, you know, home of ceremony, Agnihotra, where you chant over cow dung and gi, or you can use cotton, he would take the sacred ash and put it on people's third eye and open it, so it's quantum related to Shaktipa, and that's where the gurus do a very spiritual transmission, and you know there's another book that a Truman Francis wrote where they take the sacred ash through the booty, and they have reported cancer cures. So Dr. Dayton used to do electrodermic electrodermal testing with the bone machine, so you have the nantis in yoga, and you have the the meridians in acupuncture, they kind of equivocate, and you could take the bone machine and say, is a pharmaceutical going to work, is an herb going to work, or is a homeopathic remedy going to work, and he said sometimes you get spectacular results. I said, why don't you write a book about it, because it says it. He told me it takes over 10 years to learn, so I was going to say Dr. Minasi, I mean, your last name is the Sacred City of Banari, where they say if you pass away there, you die there, you're liberated, and then what Dr. Mishra used to teach is he used to say, the yoga sutras are already within us, and that well, I kind of believe that Sanskrit has a life of its own, so it's mystically very fascinating, and you know, there's validity to mysticism, and I think by taking a scientific approach we give people a newer and better paradigm, and I know of a couple IR better schools, one is Alandi Ashram, where Awakened Nanda Ma is the main teacher, and she was a DO in the UK before she got into yoga, and then Anthony James at the school in Florida, and he is on our Saturday Zoom group, where we, you know, we work, and you know, Doctor Clearfield knows about them, where we work on helping veterans and Native American Indians, so I think in a sense, with all these wonderful Zoom groups, there's a think tank, and the think tank is opening people's eyes and learning about new modalities, so that's very exciting. So that's my two cents.

Speaker 1  1:39:41
Well, it's worth more than two cents. And thank you. And yeah, actually, if you ever have within you yourself or members in your group as part of the think tank, want to be introduced to the team over in India. If

Speaker 5  1:39:55
we want, yeah, give me your contact information, I'll get it from Dr. Clerk Bill, and we invite you to do a see me on our Monday group.

Speaker 1  1:40:05
Sounds good.

Speaker 5  1:40:06
Okay, and made the Saturday group too. We can talk to them, and Dr. John Berges, he's been to the Golden Temple, and he can tell you all about meditation and Jack DePack.

Speaker 9  1:40:20
Yeah, I did. I did my Ayurveda in the Himalayas, so I'm a little old man. Hey, but I wanted, I really wanted to let our esteemed group speakers tonight. It was most appreciated. And if you didn't know it, we do have a subset of research that's under Bill's nonprofit, so we all work together, but we have a specific research ethical research group, and two of those members are not me, but two of the members are astounding, and one is Dr. Quinn, who has established a universal apothecary as a compounding pharmacist, and he wants to know the truth, so it makes it very simple, very simple. And then we also have another genius dude who's helping us out, Dr. Tano, who has developed the AI and the digital platform through which we can do our research, and we would love to welcome you to join us, because

Bill Clearfield  1:41:23
Doc,

Speaker 9  1:41:24
because what Dr. Town on Dr. Quinn have done has never been done before, and we would be happy to use your products to get some honest answers. Thank you.

Speaker 1  1:41:36
Wonderful, thank you. And well, definitely, Dr. Ketterfield, if you make that introduction as well, I'll forward it also, not only for Dr. Swathi, we're interested, but we'll also forward it to the team in India, because we're as a collective trying to advance the betterment and health of humanity, and part of that is picking away the barriers.

Speaker 9  1:41:55
Only in this last week we have had one of the prize Indian surgeons, who is definitely a young genius, you know, those one of those guys in India. So he was through medical school when he was about 20 years old. Now he's a phenomenal orthopedic surgeon, and he has grown. He has joined our research group, so the ability to the ability for us to tie in with India should be easy, especially with you helping us out. We've always done the Ayurveda since 1980 at our hospital in India, so you know everybody's open for that.

Speaker 1  1:42:35
Well, Honor, thank you for the invite, and thank you for your openness, very, very kind.

Speaker 9  1:42:40
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:41
Thank you.

Speaker 5  1:42:42
It's refreshing. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:44
Okay. Anybody else have any comments or questions?

Speaker 4  1:42:48
So, I in our Andrew Weil program, we were studying also the dosha typing, and as, as I always hear about dosha, I knew I kind of mentioned about that, Dr. Schwatti, a while ago in relation to these remedies, or maybe if AI can get into the mix. Is there a way to personalize these, these therapies, or these botanicals to specific individuals? I mean, I'm this is just kind of like a far out question, but I just kind of correlated everything when I remembered my readings,

Speaker 3  1:43:25
yeah. It's a great question, and actually I don't know if you're learning from Amita Nathaniel, but I actually helped her with a clinical study at the Andrew Weil Center with her patient population, so I'm very familiar with the Andrew Weil Center and the IRV, the programming and stuff there, which is amazing, yeah, yeah. So, okay, great question. At the, so, at the moment, the way that they're looking at the, the resonance mapping and everything is, it's not necessarily specific to each human, but rather thinking about how we can broad scale actually influence the resonance mapping of each herb for its sustained exposure and impact, so they're not actually looking at it at like kind of a personalized, individualized level, but I think that could be potentially something that they consider for the future, or maybe even thinking about, because most people, what I didn't mention in the initial discussion is that most people have like a primary dosha, and so they're not like mono doshic, so you're not like full 100% Pitta or something, that you actually are generally like a Pitta Vata combination, and then everyone has like also the third one as well. So I do think that down the road that is something that they would consider, but I think that for the way they're thinking about optimizing the botanicals right now, they're thinking about it as a bit more broad scale rather than like three or four or seven different kinds,

Speaker 4  1:44:52
so basically more focused on the botanicals rather than the ones who's going to be using the herbs.

Speaker 3  1:44:58
Yes,

Speaker 1  1:45:01
I think it's right for the research, and it'd be interesting within a subgroup if there are high responders and low responders, because you know we're seeing the net area under the curve, whether that was specific to a specific dosha presentation. So I think that asks a bigger question of if they came in prescribed with a certain dosha composition or constitution, does that alter the way that these groups respond with them? I think it'd be very easy to do a subset of the data, and then you know do a post hoc study on that. Great question. Good thinking, do

Bill Clearfield  1:45:41
fact, I'm writing it down.

Speaker 4  1:45:48
Yeah, more ideas for you guys, more assignments, right?

Speaker 1  1:45:55
Cool. Well, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:56
Okay. Well, all right. Um, thank you, Dr. Meletus, Doctor. Thank you, Doctor Swathi. It's a pleasure, as always. And anybody have any anything else? Anything left? We had nothing in the chat on our on our end here, so you've answered every question. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:46:18
Thank you all, and thank you for the invites. Thank you, Dr. Burgess and mr. Stein, as well, for the invites and the information. So, I think we'll love to make some cyber introductions and some collaborative ventures. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:35
Okay. Great. All right. Any, anybody have any? So, I will be at IFM next week. I'm actually presenting there, so I'm sort of like a foreign foreigner there, not really, you know, part of their group, and the person who invited me, and he'd only been there a month, and they apparently they fired him, so I don't know what that means exactly, that he's the one who brought me on, and they're very picky about how their slides work. I don't know if anybody else's, they've been giving

Bill Clearfield  1:47:07
me,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:08
they've been given, they've been giving me Adjuda, you know, like, like, you know, it's 10 days away, and it's still not, you know, this color isn't right, and that color isn't right, and so, and again, so the guy, like I said, the guy who, who you know, said, "Okay, we want you to present, and I'll help you get, you know, do it the way they want it done. I didn't hear from him for a few days, then I got an email that he got fired, so he wasn't there three months,

Speaker 1  1:47:35
and they are particular. I done their mail and hormone, thyroid, and adrenal hormone modules, and they are very particular, but they're going to be, they're going to love you, because you're going to be a breath, a fresher breath of air for them, because they're regimented in their thinking, but they're expansive in their desire.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:56
I took a couple of the modules, and they asked me what I thought, and I said, well, the first thing is, after a year, you shut it off. I paid you a lot of money. Why are you shutting it off, right? So, well, so you could buy another one, I guess. Anyway, so we have that coming up. I have that coming up. And how about you, Dr. Nario? And what's what's doing at a forum?

Speaker 4  1:48:20
We'll be having our women's hormones again on, I think, October, but my coming talk would be in June, and that'll be in the Philippines. It's one of the medical centers there that is starting an integrative medicine clinic, or already they already started. It's one of the bigger ones, it's called Medical City, so that's going to be online, but yeah, it's going to be October, my next one in

Bill Clearfield  1:48:48
April.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:49
You were supposed to go to Dubai, did that? What happened with that? Did that

Speaker 4  1:48:52
until the war came?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:55
That's what I figured. I didn't hear anything more about it. I

Speaker 4  1:48:58
don't want to be dodging missiles, so I think we'll do that for now.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:05
All right, okay. If anybody else out there, you know, is speaking anywhere, and or presenting anything? No, okay. All right, yeah. Oh, by the way, also I'm doing AMG has me doing the in their certification course now. I'm doing an assessment of the age management patient, so putting that together, and in the in their fall in October, I'm going to be doing an eight hour laboratory workshop, you know, laboratory of functional medicine from serum all the way to we haven't decided all all the exotic tests they want to present so I'll need a chiropractor there or somebody because my back won't hold up for eight hours I know that

Bill Clearfield  1:49:52
so

Speaker 10  1:49:53
eight hours

Bill Clearfield  1:49:56
yeah

Speaker 5  1:49:58
okay is there a protocol for Angela,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:02
protocol for what

Speaker 5  1:50:03
Anscha.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:05
I usually call you, show

Speaker 5  1:50:08
I know what

Bill Clearfield  1:50:11
it seems to be, seems to like that to create that, so and you know it's not like I haven't presented before, so, but whatever. You know,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:24
the lettering has a white,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:28
right? You know, I like making slides that, that have a little bit of little color and a little bit of character to them. Nope, no good. They have to be all white.

Speaker 6  1:50:36
Yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:36
So, okay, you know, it's their show, I guess. So,

Speaker 5  1:50:41
give them multimedia slides.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:44
Yeah, I don't know. I know this will be the first time I was ever one of their things live. I've only done some online things, and

Speaker 5  1:50:51
they'll go, they'll probably love

Speaker 1  1:50:54
it. They will.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:55
I did. I did one of the hormone courses. I didn't come across you, Dr. Meletus, but, like I said, they, you know, they redo them every two years, and they paid off, so

Speaker 1  1:51:03
I did a 2015 16 with, but then they wanted to do in Colorado, and I am not a high altitude person, I get altitude sick in a heartbeat, and so once they chose that, I opted out.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:15
All right, okay, all right, everybody, so the so that's what's going on around here. Next week we have Jeremy Mumfre, who was the editor of the Health, the weekly health magazine for a forum, and he's going to be talking about Lyme disease, syphilis, and War Galens. Did I say

Speaker 5  1:51:41
yeah, Mark Challenge, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:43
yeah, did I say that right? Yep, and that's good. And so that's next week. Bring your friends, bring your enemies, give us a call, let us know what you're up to. We always need speakers, and come across anybody that you might find interesting, let us know. Shell, thank you for all your help. Dr. Nario, thank you for your help, and Dr. Meletus and Dr. Swathi. We can't thank you enough for your time and your effort, and of course, we'll be annoying you again, Dr. Meletus, probably in three or four months, so we, we don't want

Bill Clearfield  1:52:22
to,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:22
we don't want to overwhelm you, but we are here every week. Tuesday, you're in Oregon, Tuesday, 5pm We are here every week, and you're always welcome to sit in, listen, and throw in your two cents.

Speaker 1  1:52:35
Wonderful. Well, thank you all.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:37
Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Swathi. I will send you the video when it's ready, and I will send you the participant list if you want to get in touch with the folks that were here.

Speaker 6  1:52:47
Okay.

Speaker 1  1:52:47
Thank you. All

Bill Clearfield  1:52:48
right. Good night, everybody. Have a great, have a great week.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai