Bill Clearfield  03:09
So how is everybody tonight? Staying cool, I hope,

Unknown Speaker  03:21
and

Bill Clearfield  03:25
Okay, anybody Doing anything interesting this summer

Unknown Speaker  03:35
or not? I

Speaker 1  03:43
big garden. It's all starting to come in now, and boating

Bill Clearfield  03:55
the gardens coming in. Well, that's good.

Unknown Speaker  03:58
Lots of tomatoes and yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:03
okay, we didn't do any planning this year, so send some our way.

Unknown Speaker  04:08
I'd love to we usually

Bill Clearfield  04:10
do that. We usually have too many.

Speaker 1  04:16
End up giving them away. Well, I freeze them and then I have tomatoes all year. For all my tomato anything, any tomato sauce I make, they're all my garden.

Bill Clearfield  04:35
If you think it's easy raising tomatoes in Nevada, you got another thing coming. Oh, really. There. Really, yeah, we're a high desert here. It's all rocks. Oh, okay,

Unknown Speaker  04:46
so you can build that up.

Bill Clearfield  04:51
Yeah, we manage. You know, we usually manage. But Uh huh,

Speaker 1  04:56
if you don't plant this year, if you weren't planting, put cardboard over the top and just let it rot into the soil, and you'll end up with more soil.

Bill Clearfield  05:10
Yeah. Well, we, you know, we usually compost it, so usually, it's usually pretty good by the spring. So, uh huh. But we've unfortunately had moles that are the yard up, and I can't get rid of them, so they make a mess, yeah, and

Speaker 1  05:27
they eat up all the roots. You need a little trap. You catch them with a trap. We had some, and we were able to catch them. Fortunately, I think we got lucky.

Bill Clearfield  05:44
I'm not that nice. We got these bombs, put it in, lit it, and covered it up. And you see all this smoke coming up. So a little monsters just went to the other side of the yard. And I don't get it. Not that I wish it on anybody else, but I got neighbors on either side of me. Neither of them have the moles. They just, they're just on our lawn.

Speaker 1  06:08
They can be really frustrating. I've heard ammonia in the hole. You pour it down the hole,

Bill Clearfield  06:19
kind of well, I guess they're ruining the grass anyway. So that's really,

Speaker 1  06:24
well, you're putting it into the soil, and I don't think it's so bad for the soil.

Unknown Speaker  06:38
So all right.

Bill Clearfield  06:43
So, Dr Nario, how's the How are things in Arizona this week? Pretty,

Speaker 2  06:51
pretty good. We got some some good tips here. I'm doing we're doing in the herbal module now. So we're getting a lot of good herb.

Bill Clearfield  07:02
You got away from the bike, bicycle seats I see, huh?

Unknown Speaker  07:04
Yeah, I passed that module, so I think I did good. Hang on.

Bill Clearfield  07:11
My, my, uh, our speakers calling me. Hello, you.

Bill Clearfield  07:23
I can't. Do you want it on the phone or on the email? Okay? I think I was sent it to the Gmail. Okay, all right. Dr Nario, our speakers having trouble getting on. So let me,

Unknown Speaker  07:43
where are you here? Let me want me

Speaker 2  07:50
to start with our tip of the day while we kind of buy time for

Bill Clearfield  07:53
I want, I want to get you to be the the I want you to get be the the host really the so I can go take care of that, or co host, here we go.

Unknown Speaker  08:08
You know, you're only a picture, right?

Bill Clearfield  08:13
There I am. There. I better

Speaker 2  08:15
now live. I think you're we're catfishing them.

Bill Clearfield  08:19
I think we are okay. You can you take over here, and I'll try and find our speaker here.

Speaker 2  08:26
Jim, want me to start with the tip of the day. Yeah, okay, let me just get people in here so we can start. Okay, so Alright, so we were, as I told you, we're kind of tackling herbs this time around in our module. So I want to share something about rosemary. So today, again, it's something related to its memory boosting function, and not just the herb as of course, we use for cooking. I want to we always kind of use this in like what baked salmon teas and even baked potatoes so but this is a powerful cognitive enhancer with solid scientific backing, rosemary or rose marinas officials, belongs to the mint family, and it's actually been used throughout the western herbalism as a memory tonic. Well, when what it takes, it's it's a special compounds like bottle oil, such as Cinna roll and camphor, just to name a few, in rosemarinic acid. So this volatile oils are natural acetyl cholinesterase inhibitors. So these are the same mechanism used by our pharmaceutical cognitive enhancers. So you would be familiar with this in Alzheimer's, like Donepezil, and I don't know well, there's another one that I forgot, but Donepezil, for sure, something used there and cineol, which is the part of that volatile oil compound, specifically stimulates the central nervous system and has been shown to shorten reaction times as measured by brainwave activities. So the clinical relevance is compelling. So in a double blind control trial, 20 adults with the mean age of 75, researchers tested four different doses of rosemary powder in relation to cognitive performance. And here's what's remarkable, the lowest dose of 750 milligrams, just as under half a teaspoon of dried rosemary, significantly improved cognitive performance compared to placebo. But there here's the twist, the highest dose of 6000 milligrams in that stat study actually impaired performance, thus showing us that more isn't always better when it comes to herbal medicine. And additional studies to support these findings with the Japanese researchers found that men consuming just one gram of rosemary daily experience improved mental and energy. Mental functions and energy performance, better sleep quality and reduce daytime sleepiness. In another study, Night Shift Nurses who added just one drop of rosemary, essential oil to their masks. So if somebody's still using masks out there, this is something that you could definitely do. It actually decreased sleepiness when they were doing their shifts in the hospital, and increase alertness compared to controls. So what I love about Rosemary is its versatility. The essential oils are readily absorbed through your skin, through inhalation and through ingestion. You can easily incorporate that therapeutic 750, milligram dose in your daily cooking. So that's less than half a teaspoon. So that's how easy it is. You can also use it as tea or taking one half to one teaspoon of dried herbs per cup, up to three cups daily. And those who prefers tinctures, you can use two to four milliliters three times daily. It's even effective topically and through aroma therapy. However, safety is crucial. Never ingest isolated essential oils as they can cause gastric irritation. So this is a lesson for for our patients who thinks that the topical essential oils can also be ingested so it's not can also cause kidney damage and even seizures. So limited topical and inhalation applications to not more than three times per day, and if you're taking blood thinners, avoid rosemary, as it may inhibit platelet aggregation as well. So the long term effects of chronic high dose still remains unknown. So the takeaway message here is Rosemary offers a safe, natural and delicious way to support cognitive health, which we're going to be talking about today, also with solid scientific evidence, the effective dose is easily achievable through normal culinary use, making it one of the most accessible cognitive enhancers available. So whether you're 75 years old looking to maintain mental sharpness, or a busy professional needing better focus and alertness, Rosemary deserves a place in your daily routine. Remember, sometimes the most powerful medicine is sitting right in your spice cabinet. So thank you for our angel Tip of the Week.

Bill Clearfield  13:04
Okay, thank you, Dr Nario, so, so welcome everybody, and we're really happy to have our speaker this week, Sharon Houseman Cohen, those of you that been in the in the longevity, anti aging world, that she's no stranger to any of us, and it's an honor to have her here just a little bit, since you're not familiar with us. Dr Houseman Cohen, the doctor, Nario, is taking Andrew Wiles integrative medicine course at the Arizona University of Arizona in Tucson, and we pick his brain every week and get a tip of the week so that we don't have to go go there, and also spend the money through the tuition. So we're living vicariously through him. One of these days, I'm going to aggregate all of the all of them, because he's been there. You've been there about a year now, right?

Speaker 2  14:03
Not yet a half half a year, okay?

Bill Clearfield  14:07
And I unfortunately muted you, Doctor, Doctor, Houseman, but just clicking somebody in. So if you could unmute yourself, and about a half a year almost. Yeah, taking any tests are you passing?

Speaker 2  14:24
I hope I can last longer until they see you know information. So you have a mole in here, and he's, we don't want you to,

Unknown Speaker  14:35
yeah, we don't

Bill Clearfield  14:37
want you to embarrass us. So, so so it's a little bit after five, and so thank you for being with us. We're really honored. So for a lot of us, you don't really even need an introduction. But Dr Houseman Cohen is nationally recognized expert in the field of genomics with a career dedicated to making genomic data clinically actionable. Her research and publications focus on improving outcomes and cognitive decline, treatment resistant, mental health conditions and autism by integrating genomic insights into personal care. She's the Chief Medical Officer and co founder of intellig telex and DNA, I hope I said that right an evidence based genomics platform designed to help physicians identify and address underlying genetic contributors to chronic disease and health optimization. She co authors numerous peer reviewed articles and textbook chapters on clinical applications of genomics in integrative and functional medicine. And if you go to any major anti aging a forum, AMG, any of the other groups, she's she's almost universally there, and I've heard her many times. She's board certified in family medicine. And now I lost, I lost the rest of it. So why don't you

Speaker 3  16:03
pick it up from there? Okay, yes, I will be happy to board certified in family medicine and integrative medicine, and I've actually taught at the Andrew wild fellowship a number of years ago. So so what we're going to talk about today is a topic that I think is really important. We're going to talk about beyond pharmacogenomics, being able to address the root causes of depression and anxiety. So I'm going to jump right in. And when you think about a patient with depression or anxiety, really, there's not a lot of different tools that you can use to address and you guys should be able to see my screen right? Hopefully, yep, we see perfect you can blood tests aren't really very helpful because of the blood brain barrier. You might use your urine organic acid testing or some metabolite testing, but really there's nothing that gives you a lot of insight to the root cause, and genomics has that potential. Now, pharmacogenomics came out in really got established under Obama when he passed the Precision Medicine Initiative and said, We need to be using pharmacogenomics to help make medical decisions and for oncology genomics. And then the next phase of genomics was going to be looking at root cause genomics. And that's where my area of research has taken off and has been involved in what I've been involved in. It's important to understand that pharmacogenomics is not about looking at the root cause. Pharmacogenomics is understanding medication, material, metabolism, root cause. Clinical genomics is a whole different field. But let's talk for a minute. Why I say that pharmacogenomics alone is an inadequate tool, and the reason is because it will identify gene drug interactions. It will help you understand the metabolism of medicines. Somebody who is a rapid metabolizer of fluoxetine is going to need a higher dose. Somebody who can't metabolize a particular drug is going to need a lower dose. But what pharmacogenomics does not tell you is the root cause of, why are they having the depression, or why are they having the anxiety? And that's the key piece of the puzzle. So in general, pharmacogenomics will talk about serotonin, drug metabolism, norepinephrine, drug dopamine, drug metabolism. But it's assuming that neurotransmitter imbalance is the root cause of the depression or the anxiety, and so what if that wasn't the cause? Let me show you this study from 2013 where they added pharmacogenomics to usual care, and what you will find is that only 20% so here in the orange, you're going to see remission, which means getting well. Even with pharmacogenomics, only 20% of individuals were well at 10 weeks. Now that was definitely better than the 9% in the usual care group. But what does it really mean? It means that 80% of people didn't get well, and even if you look at people who got 50% better, which is what response is, it still was less than half of people who are 50% better, even when you used pharmacogenomics. So what were they missing? And then this is another trial that, just in case you go, Well, that was 2013 maybe it's gotten better. It hasn't. This was a trial in 2022 looking at treatment resistant patients and even more detailed pharmaco pharmacogenomics, and still only 16% achieved remission at eight weeks, versus 9% of treatment as usual. So what was going on? Well? As you guys know, because you're in the integrative world, you have to look at root causes in order to get someone well. And there is not just one root cause for chronic diseases and depression, anxiety are included in that. So these are just a couple of different articles, and you can see markers of oxidative stress, on average, were almost five times higher in individuals with depression compared to controls. Many people with depression and anxiety have elevated cortisol or elevated adrenaline, and that contributes to the depression being deficient in nutrients like zinc, vitamin C, magnesium, b6, they're all important for depression because it relates to making neurotransmitters and inflammation has to do with everything, every chronic disease. Now, all of these relate to genomic variants. So when we look at the genomic variants that in the literature, so documented in the literature have been associated with depression. There are some that relate to serotonin production and regulation, but also ones that relate to brain cortisol regulation, methylation factors, the ability to make something called tetrahydrobiopteran, which we're going to talk about and on and on and on, everything from gut permeability to growth factors, to toxins, and again, inflammation. When you look at the genomic variants contributing to anxiety, we have a lot of overlap, still serotonin production and regulation, but there's a really important gene for anxiety that causes you to have too much histamine in your brain, and histamine will make you feel like just like just like antihistamines make you feel sleepy, histamine will make you feel more awake and panicky and too much orexin, which is the opposite of melatonin. Orexin is your wakefulness hormone. There are genes that are receptors for where adrenaline binds. If you bind adrenaline 10 times more tightly, you're going to feel anxious. There's things that relate to thyroid conversion in the brain, how we process sugar, again, glutamate, dopamine, related pathways and inflammation. Okay, so let's say you have a genomic map of your patient, and you know that somebody has a bunch of root causes that's not enough for you to actually help them. And again, this has been where my area of research has focused on, once you have identified root causes of depression or anxiety, you have to know how to respond to them. So to be useful, a genomics tool for mental health has to identify the contributing genomic factors, but it also has to offer various solutions that are genomically targeted to an individual's etiology. So if you think about how many things there are in the literature that have efficacy for improving outcomes in someone with mental health concerns, magnesium, vitamin D, B, vitamins, Lion's Mane, polyphenols, you know, curcumin and resveratrol and live and adaptogens and dozens more. The question is, patients don't want just trial and error. How can you use their DNA so that you can get it right the first time? So what we're going to do now is I'm going to talk to you about the top 10 genes that are associated with mental health, and that's going to give you an idea of how genomics would improve your insight for patients and your treatment. So the number one gene in mental health, in my opinion, for depression and anxiety, because it has the highest odds ratios, the highest likelihood of contributing towards this, is a gene called HTR one A, and anytime you see HTR that happens to do with the serotonin or the tryptophan pathways, but HTR one A, I like to call the faulty serotonin thermostat. It is expressed on serotonergic neurons, and what it does is it's a regulator, it's an auto receptor, and we want to be able to judge how much serotonin we have, so we can stop making it when we have enough. And with this particular auto receptor being overactive, you think you have a lot more than you have. So you stop making it. Imagine if your thermostat in your house was broken, and the thermostat said it was 70, but it was really 40. Well, if the thermostat is says is reading 70, it's not going to turn on the heat, and so the sensor is broken. And so then the downstream effects are the sequelae of not turning on the heat, or in the case of HTR one a not turning on serotonin production. What I mean by an auto receptor is that there are both pre and post synaptic receptors. This is a pre synaptic auto receptor that is again helping to regulate and measure serotonin. It is the postsynaptic receptors that transmit the serotonin effects. So the reason HTR one A is such an important gene variant is it has the highest ratio odds ratio in the literature for both depression and anxiety. Two copies of HTR one A, the HTR one a variant associated with depression and anxiety is associated with 2.8 times the risk, or 182 times the risk of anxiety and and depression, both two copies is found in 17% of the population. It is still a very high risk, even with one copy and every gene variant gives kind of its own phenotype, its own presentation. This particular gene variant is also seen in higher amounts in people who have more fear bipolar disorder, increased risk of suicide, more severe depression, and a slower and reduced response to SSRIs. Now this last one is really important, because we were all taught that SSRIs take eight to 10 weeks to work. Well, why? Well, it's because this is the most common gene variant for depression and anxiety. It's not that they really take eight to 10 weeks to work to recycle serotonin. It's that most people with depression and anxiety that have a serotonergic component don't have enough serotonin, so you can't recycle it till you start to rebuild it.

Speaker 3  26:07
HTR, when A is also interesting, because it's associated with a blunted cortisol response to acute stress. What this means is that during times of stress, you actually want to have your cortisol go up a little, and you want to get out of the stress. But people with this particular gene variant find it more difficult to activate their cortisol and their fight or flight system, so they stay in a bad situation. Think about how many of your depressed patients tend to have apathy and difficult initiating activity. This is partially because of HTR one a. Now the reason patients with HTR one a have a slower and less robust response to antidepressants is you can't recycle something you don't have. So what do you do for individuals with HTR one a? Well, the first thing you have to do is to push the serotonin synthesis pathways, since it's a dysregulated sensor. And so how do you do that? Well, there's a lot of different ways, but we know that giving things like saffron, which can increase serotonin synthesis, giving five HTP, which is the precursor to serotonin. In some people, you might use Sami, giving co factors like vitamin D, or very specific probiotics, lactobacilli, helveticus and Bifido longum, all increase gut synthesis of serotonin. And then, of course, a 10,000 Lux light. And so you'll see there are ways of addressing this gene and every gene in our body, using diet, lifestyle supplements and medications. So in terms of medications, we know that SSRIs are actually less effective than SNRIs for this particular gene variant. And again, I'll be happy to answer questions in more detail afterwards. Let's take a mini case. So this is Candy. Candy is 64 years old. She has severe depression and seasonal affective disorder since she was a teen, and her depression is poorly controlled with 150 milligrams of Zoloft. She actually is pretty flattened affect. She hates Christmas and winter holidays, which is really bothersome to her family, because at this point, she's a grandmother of three grandchildren. She also has chronic gut issues, diarrhea, prone IBS, and in her genomics, she's got two copies of this, HTR, one a but she also has two copies of MTHFR, so some of you may know that one, it's the one that allows you to turn folate into methylfolate, which is the form of folate that can cross the blood brain barrier. She also has snips relating to low zinc. Well, zinc is the cofactor for serotonin. She also has snips relating to inability to recycle vitamin C. Well, Vitamin C is the cofactor for norepinephrine. And she has snips relating to gut histamine intolerance, which explains a lot of her gut stuff. So what did we do for candy? Well, once we got her genomics, it was the easiest fixed. I mean, she's literally been struggling with this for over 45 years. We gave her methyl folate to address MTHFR. We fixed her gut with glutamate. It says L glutamate, but should say l glutamine, and made her aware of high histamine foods, and gave her Dao. We gave her vitamin C and zinc so she could make and five HTP, so she could help make norepinephrine and serotonin. The Mood Support product we gave her had particular bacteria and saffron to increase her serotonin synthesis. And we started lowering her sertraline to help with the fatigue. Kathy did absolutely great. She is now on 50 milligrams of sertraline and the Mood Support product and the methylfolate and the nutrients. And she loves Christmas now, and her gut is fine as well. Let's take snip number two, il one beta. So anytime you see a one or an alpha, TNF, alpha, il one Alpha, il one beta, those are really important pathways. We tend to put the lower numbers on some of the more important pathways. But il one beta causes elevated interleukin one beta. And interleukin one beta causes systemic inflammation. It spreads inflammation from anywhere in the body, throughout the body, including into the brain, and will create a brain on fire. So if you have somebody who has heart surgery or has a dental infection, this will create inflammation in their body that will go to their brain. But there are also about 8% of the population that make very high levels of Il one beta, and then there's another 15% of the population that make moderately high levels of Il one beta that predispose them naturally, as if they were sick or had just had surgery, to depression, to bipolar, to autism, to post traumatic epilepsy, brain swelling after TBI, for example, and cognitive decline. So this particular gene variant of that makes il one beta goes up, causes three times the risk of autism, even with one copy but it also causes a significant increase of depression, and that is particularly important in seniors, because seniors have more systemic tissue damage in their body that's going to augment that il one beta. So let's talk about why il one beta is so bad, and how does it transmit inflammatory signals to the brain? One of the really fun things is, when you study genomics, you're going to learn pathophysiology in a whole new way. So if I could see your hands, I'd say, How many of you ever ordered resolvents or seen the use of resolvents? And probably a lot of you have said, I have. Well, what resolvins do is they turn off inflammasomes. Well, what is an inflammasome? Well, an inflammasome is the endpoint that transmits inflammation from il one beta. So il one beta activates these things called nlrp Three inflammasomes, and it causes, then an inflammatory signal that can cross the brain, and it's associated with, again, all kinds of mental health issues, but failure to achieve remission in depression. Why none of our antidepressants that we prescribe really address brain inflammation, and just so you know, for those of you dealing with seniors, amyloid will trigger the activation of inflammasomes. For those of you dealing with Lyme or mold patients, viruses, bacteria, fungi, will trigger the activation of inflammasomes. So there's a lot of things that trigger it. Now, how, what do you do for someone with high il one beta? I made this chart to show you that there's so many ways you can address il one beta, and how you address it is going to depend on what's going on. You can use resolvents. You can use omega threes. You can use sulforaphane, resveratrol, apigenin, luteolin, quercetin. And you might have to decide. Well, for example, sulforaphane has great results in autism and ADHD and schizophrenia and pain and a little bit in depression. But apigenin has better studies in anxiety and sleep, so it may depend on what's going on. Which intervention you choose. Let's talk about snip number three, GPR 50. So even though GPR 50 stands for a G protein. I like to think of it not a good pairing high cortisol and low melatonin. So GPR 50 increases your activation of your HPA axis, your makes your cortisol levels go a little bit crazy, and at the same time, lowers melatonin signaling, this leads to patients feeling stressed and depressed and has more significant effects in women. You guys can be thinking about why a gene might have more effects in women, but it's an overactive gene that has 1.77 times the risk of depression in women. So before I give you the answer as to why it has more effects on women. I'm going to ask you, have you ever heard of beta arrestin? I had not before I started studying genomics, but beta arrestin is has the job of regulating our beta adrenergic receptor function. It keeps our adrenaline response from getting out of control. So its goal is to help arrest the fear and anxiety behaviors. So GPR 50 lowers your beta arrestin So you no longer have the ability to arrest or stop those anxiety behaviors. Now if you've ever given a patient steroids, and had them call you and say, I can't sleep and I feel crazy and I feel stressed and I feel anxious. That's GPR 50. That's an overactive gfpr 50. But for patients with GPR 50 variants, they can get that corticosteroid like negative effects on their HPA access without even taking any steroids, because steroids will also cause that same lowering of the beta arrestin. Now, what about the melatonin? Well, melatonin, MLT, up here in purple, normally binds the melatonin one receptor. However, when you have too much of this GPR 50 protein, it hogs that melatonin receptor. And how, by hogging the melatonin receptor you can't get melatonin signaling so you can't sleep. Well, GPR 50 also blocks beta arrestin from doing what it needs to do. So GPR 50 does not directly bind the melatonin it binds the melatonin receptor.

Speaker 3  36:09
Oh, just in case you were wondering about why it works more. In women, it's an overactive gene, and women, it's on the X chromosome, so women already have higher GPR 50 pathways to start with. So then you throw in variants. They can have two variants. Men only can have one variant. Okay. What can we do about this? Well, the best way to address this is to look for ways that you can lower those patients anxiety by addressing their cortisol again. Think about all the medications we have in our prescription armamentarium for anxiety and depression, benzodiazepines, which work on GABA, things that work on serotonin, some things that work on, you know, dopamine as well and norepinephrine, but we don't have anything that works to help to temper down the cortisol pathway. This is a study of ashwagandha, and if you guys are going to learn one herbal tonight, let's have it be ashwagandha, because it is an amazing study. So this here is given 300 milligrams of ashwagandha, and the usual dose is 300 to 500 milligrams, twice a day for six weeks. And it started to separate from placebo very early on, usually within a few days, the perceived stress score went down 44% that's what PSS is in the ashwagandha group, versus 5% in the usual care placebo group, the global health questionnaire went down 72% the depression and Anxiety subscale of the global health questionnaire went down 72% and cortisol levels went down almost 30% the P values in this study were less than point 0001, that means it was 99.99% likely that the cord is that the anxiety was being improved by ashwagandha. That is much better than the P values for sertraline. Another option is Relora, and this was a study of athletes that were stressed and anxious. And you'll see that depression went down 20% in the people who got Relora, stress went down 11% fatigue improved, 31% because it improved sleep and their vigor improved 18% so Relora, which is Magnolia efficient, Alice and philodendron combined, is another option. Okay, snip number four, Adora two. A I like to think of this as adore your caffeine. It doesn't adore you. Adora to a creates caffeine induced anxiety and panic. Two copies 16% of the population, and there's a 50% increased risk in panic and agoraphobia. But also, and if it's someone who uses any kind of a stimulant, it will create anxiety, and it also increases the risk of seizures and tics. Why? Well, this is a low functioning adenosine to a receptor, and caffeine blocks the adenosine to a receptors. So it's going to make it worse, and you're going to get more panic or anxiety. So if you're trying to think what the adenosine to a receptor is, always think coffee. What happens if someone has 10 cups of coffee? Well, if you have two copies of adenosine, of the Adora to a you can get that effect without any coffee or with even one or two cups. Now, adenosine is also naturally sleep promoting, so people who have these gene variants have 40% higher risk of sleep disturbances and problems with concentration as well. Now, a dent a door to a regulates not just the adenosine related neurotransmission, but it also relates to your glutamatergic pathways. And again, if you don't quite yet have a picture of glutamate, think of glutamate as fire, fire, fire, fire, the brain that's top that's constantly firing. And so glutamate is important because you need it for cell communication and synaptic plasticity. But too much glutamate creates excessive toxic buildup, and it also creates kind of panic and OCD type symptoms. So high glutamate are the people who can't get the thoughts stuck out of their head, also things like nail biting or hair picking or pulling. Okay, adenosine, so when we look at the behaviors affected by the adenosine to a receptor, sleep, movement, anxiety, cognition, memory, tics and seizures. So how do we address it? Well, let's look at the different neurotransmitters affected. Low levels lead to high glutamate, low GABA, high dopamine and lower BDNF. So those are our targets. So hopefully you're getting an idea of how genomics works. We figure out what are the what does the gene do, what does the gene variant do, and how you can then modulate it. So for people who have this variant, we want to lower their glutamate, we want to raise their GABA, we want to lower their dopamine. Let me do a little case of anxious Alan. So Alan is a 25 year old male who comes in with the main concern of anxiety. He tells me he's catastrophizing thoughts. He's got tachycardia with breathing difficulties. He's hyper vigilant. He's got some gut issues. When I do a diet history, he tends to drink energy drinks very often because he's feeling tired. Lab value does show significant B 12 deficiency and vitamin D deficiency. So of course, we have to fix that. But of course, for Alan, when you see his genomics, he had a lot of different things going on. And we're going to focus on the Adora to a pathway the combination of him having high adrenaline. So we're this adrb Two is the adrenaline receptor and high or a lower Adora to a that creates that the panic and response to caffeine was a bad idea. So he also has increased TNF alpha and il one beta, which both can contribute to mood. What can we do to lower his Adora to a receptor activity? I'm sorry. We want to. We want to increase his Adora to a receptor activity and binding. We can give DHA, which is from omega threes. We can give genestein. We can give theanine to so theanine is not to increase Adora to a but is to increase his GABA and lower glutamate. And then we can give neck to lower glutamate, because anxious Allen was a nail biter. I chose NAC is one of the interventions, but we also chose theanine to kind of help them feel calm. Talking to the patients with these gene variants about their diet is important. This is just a comparison of how much caffeine is in different drinks, and you'll get caffeine induced anxiety with Adora to a people with 100 to 150 milligrams. If you get one latte, you can have 170 milligrams, right with a latte. If you get a cat, grand a grande, blonde roast from Starbucks, it's 360 milligrams. And even decaf can contain up to 50 milligrams a cup. So a better choice would be black tea or green tea, which will give him, you know, more that 30 to 50, he was drinking Red Bull, but a number of them a day, which had 80 milligrams per can. And sometimes he got energy drinks that had even more.

Speaker 3  43:38
Now, this is a really important gene variant that we just had a publication accepted on involved in treatment resistant depression that will treatment resistant mental health conditions, and this paper will come out, literally in a week or two in frontiers on neuroscience. And this is called GCH one, guanosine triphosphate, cyclo hydrolase one. And I think of it as the little known big sister to MTHFR. Again, I would anticipate that all of you have heard about MTHFR. Some people call it the mother father gene, the mother this gene, whatever. But it's the gene that allows you to make methylfolate, and you know that without it, you can't make serotonin and norepinephrine and dopamine, but without GCH, one, you can't make any of those, and you can't make nitric oxide. So this increases the risk of depression, but also can increase the risk of all kinds of mental health. In the publication we're about to publish, we have people who had real significant behavioral issues with head banging and behavioral issues. We had people with pm and DD. We had people with severe anxiety, etc, as well as autism and depression. We're going to do a mini case of Jasmine. Jasmine is a 13 year old with tremendous anxiety and a little bit of depression as well. Since she was young, she's been on homebound for a good part of every school year since second grade. Doesn't go to clubs or parties. Has been to psychiatrists, multiple practitioners, both integrative and classically trained. They've given her fluoxetine. They've given her all kinds of things, all kinds of counseling. But really, her problem is she's got two copies of GCH, one, which is found in 4% of the population. So she can't make serotonin, she can't make norepinephrine, she can't make dopamine, and she can't make endothelial nitric oxide, which allows blood flow to the brain. She also has snips that lead to lower GABA signaling that are only found in 2% of the population, and a gene variant that lowers her ability to absorb zinc, but BH four, tetrahydrobiopterin was absolutely key for Jasmine. What do you do for someone with GCH one? You're going to give them, not prescription coupon PKU, doses of BH four. Just in case you don't realize what BH four is, it's what they give for people who have phenyl kitchenuria, it's it's a coupon or super sapropteran, but you're going to give very low dose, about a 20th of what you would give to a person with with a PK you, and this will help to overcome that snip. You can get this over the counter, and you can also in low dose, and you can also get it from compounding pharmacies, just you can also do other things if they only have one copy. You can give things like resveratrol to increase the transcription of BH four and endothelial nitric oxide. You can do sauna and vigorous exercise therapy. Ultimately, Jasmine joined the track team, and that also helped her. But for Jasmine, really, the tetrahydrobiopteran was so so key. She is now 100% anxiety free. She has not missed one day of school, and she's joined a track team. Started to sleep over at friends, and is told her father to thank me, and actually, her father did a recording that I can tell you if you want to see about how she got completely well by using precision medicine. So I'm going to stop here to take some time for questions, because if we go through all the top 10 gene variants, we won't quite have enough time for questions. But what I want to talk just kind of end with, is pharmacogenomics is really useful for dosing and metabolism, but it doesn't help you understand the etiology when you look at a gene variant or a snip a single nucleotide polymorphism that have demonstrated odds ratios for anxiety and depression. So this one snip might increase at 70% this might that might increase it 150% once it might increase at 200% when you look at those and map them out, and you take those top five or six different gene variants that somebody has that relate either directly to anxiety, depression or to their inflammatory pathways, their detox pathways, their nutrient pathways, their gut health. You can come up with a precision treatment plan that allows you to get more rapid outcomes, dramatically better than trial and error. Just like a lab test, genomics is only useful to use if you know how to modify or address these SNPs. And that is where intelex DNA, oh, sorry about that. That is where using a clinical decision support tool makes sense, because you have to have the ability to address the SNPs when gene functions understood, then you can use it. There's still what you learned in your everyday practice. And so the era of individual Therapeutics is here. Today. We talked about cognition. I'm sorry, anxiety and depression, but you can use it for cognition This is the genomics is being used by Dr Dale Bredesen in his current research to help improve outcomes and cognitive decline. You can use this for complex pediatrics like autism or pandas or pans. You can use it for environmental illness. The same principles apply. You look at the genomics understand what root causes that patient is struggling with and why they might have some particular symptoms, and then you address them. So I'm going to leave out not only my email, but I going to take questions, but I do want to give you this QR code, and if you have it looks like the QR code got slightly cut off. So I'm going to give you an email. I'm going to have to go and fix the QR code. I don't know if it'll scan properly, because it looks like got trimmed but you can go to Dr Clearfield. Can I just say the website at this point? Wait till we're well, wait till we're well, wait till with the questions. Yes, yes. So, so you can email me, feel free to email me on the previous slide, and then I take questions. And so I can, if you email me, I will get you in touch with the right person. If you want to get training and mentoring on how to use genomics in your daily practice, whether you're doing pediatrics, adults, cognition, environmental, illness. And then we're going to officially end the webinar part and do question and answers, and then I can answer all kinds of questions.

Bill Clearfield  50:35
Okay, anybody have any questions? I don't really see anything in the chat. There's a couple of anything online.

Speaker 4  50:48
Got anything online?

Speaker 5  50:52
Yes, where do you get the BH four, and what's the the trade name for it, tetrahydrobioptera. So

Speaker 3  51:01
it is, it's it is one second. Tetrahydrobiopteran is sapropteran. The prescription name is kuvon. So you can either get it there's a company that makes it that's over the counter called terrain, for P, T, E, R, D, I, n4, or you can order it from a compounding pharmacy. Typical dosing is to start at 2.5 milligrams, once a day. Typical adult dosing, where people end up is usually five milligrams, twice a day, occasionally 10 milligrams, twice a day. I know that PD Labs, which is a compounding pharmacy that has a license for 50 states compounds it. That's where I get it from in Austin. I sure there's some other compounding pharmacies that have it as well, but they make a 2.5 and a five. Thank you. Yes, someone said ecological formulas also supplies. BH, four, yeah, and that's a 1.25 that's the terrain.

Bill Clearfield  52:12
So Nari, you got any online questions?

Unknown Speaker  52:15
Yes, we do. I'll go ahead. Dr Quinn, were you about to say something,

Speaker 3  52:22
I would love to have you guys have a discussion on how many of you have used genomics and maybe found what your pitfalls have been, or what has been frustrating. And let's talk about how you actually make genomics be of use,

Speaker 2  52:37
right? Well, one of the things that I've encountered actually so I have colleagues who are psychiatrists, and I'm sure you're aware of these pharmacogenomic brands that are out there that are used by conventional medicine. And even them, they vouch for these tests to be useless. So for the reason that they've tried to use the medications that were actually recommended from that test, and they didn't see any results from it. So that's why they they definitely are missing a key point that you're actually putting out there that's very important, that in the integrative approach of genomics, that you need to address the other issues such as inflammation, such as vitamin nutrient deficiencies. So I think that's what your company brings to this discussion,

Speaker 3  53:23
and I think that there's even a finer nuance. So for example, one kind of inflammation is CCL two. It's a very destructive type of inflammation, and the best way to lower CCL two is palmitoyl ethanolamide Pea. Now, only 8% of the population has two copies of CCL two, but for that 8% pea can be amazing. For other people, the inflammation is TNF alpha. Well, things like Lion's Mane mushroom are great for TNF alpha. And but again, if instead their inflammation is il one beta, then resolvents are going to make more sense. And so what the genomics does is helps you get a map. And now we do have, if you guys want to see publications, there are two public there are actually about four publications on the intelligence DNA web page. And we conductor Clearfield can send you a follow up communication. I can give you all that information, but we have outcomes data in cognition and autism and now treatment resistant mental health, and at this point, the publications are mostly case studies or case series. But one of the things that I'm excited about, I started out, I went to Harvard to become a brain researcher. I quit after my masters. I was supposed to be doing a PhD, and then I went to medical school, also at Harvard, and became a family physician, but I'm a researcher at heart, and one of the things I'm very excited about is we're now involved in a number of IRB approved trials, but we already, across the country have 1000s of case studies, and I think that that is where root cause genomics differs from pharmacogenomics. As you talk to we just had a conference in Austin where we had 100, 120 of people who have been using the genomics coming for advanced training, and they'll tell you, Yes, we're getting outcomes, and they're sharing their cases. So I think that the advantage is if you guys, take three of your complicated patients that have whatever, whether it's a cognition issue, don't take severe, severe Alzheimer's. You get too much neurodegeneration by then, but mild cognitive impairment or anxiety or depression or ADHD or patients with mystery illness, you're going to see how that you can understand that. And we had one patient who did her genomics because she was itching, no rashes. The dermatologist couldn't find anything. We were able to untangle it because of the different mast cell pathways that she had, and then figure out how to address it. But it wasn't, it wasn't a typical math Well, cell pathway. It was a regulator, so she needed resveratrol and ceramides. So again, I think you guys are going to find it really interesting. We do offer free mentoring and free training, so that even if you only order one report this whole year, you'll still get full access to our mentoring and training program, which I think you will complement. Well, what you're doing with Dr Clearfield, and we have a lot of longevity doctors, if you guys are in the longevity space, as Dr Clearfield mentioned, I didn't do this talk on longevity, but happy to come back and do a talk on longevity another time.

Bill Clearfield  56:36
So a long time ago, 1012, years ago, there was, there's a big push for nutrigenomics. So to match food, you know, food styles, or, you know, menu, or, you know, meal plans, to genomics, and it got so complicated, I just kind of gave up.

Speaker 3  56:59
Well, yeah, so that's a good point. So we do include nutrigenomics. I'll speak to that on two fronts. We do include nutrigenomics, but I think that nutrigenomics is actually one of the areas that you least need genomics for, because many nutrients can be measured in the blood. Where you need genomics for in the nutrient world are the receptors or the transporters. So they're 18% of the population do not transport B 12 well into their brain. That's called TCN to they need extra B 12. Then there's also people who don't transport it into their mitochondria. They need extra B 12. But the in terms of the difficulty, I will say that the use, the ease of use for genomics, and has gotten much better, because we've gotten better at figuring out how to present the information. So when I teach genomics, we have people first look at the hot spot. So the hot spot are the gene variants that are found in only two or five or 10 or 15% of the population, and you're going to get, even though you're going to look at six or 800 different variants, if you're using a broad genomics tool, you're going to have the information that you need out of their top 20 snips. And so it's so we do help people go here kind of flag, what we call hot spots, so it's gotten a lot easier. Okay, interventions and we also typical dosing is another thing that we include. So not even just and again, I didn't, because we were doing this in a CME format, didn't include screenshots. But any of you that reach out, when you get a tour, you'll get you'll see how it works, but you'll also get a code so you can get started with a discount.

Bill Clearfield  58:48
Do you recommend? So we're off now the videos off. So, so do you have recommendations for supplements? I'm assuming it's not vitamins, herbs, minerals. I'm assuming it's not medications?

Speaker 3  59:01
No, we do medications as well. That's actually a really interesting point. So So now that the video is off, so intelligence, DNA is a different category than the other genomic tools. It's a clinical decision support tool as opposed that's why we can only sell to licensed healthcare providers. So I apologize to any of you who are health coaches. We can sell to we can sell to MDs, dos, naturopaths and you know, nurse practitioners, pas chiropractors that have functional training or neurological training, but we can't sell to the lay people, which other genomics companies can, because we give everything from diet and lifestyle and supplements, but also medications, and for the supplements, because we are clinical decision support. Tools are meant to be educational. They're meant so that if you had 1000 hours to your time, you'd be able to figure this out. But so we actually even give, in the literature, what is the typical dosing, and everything is referenced. So it's a very different kind of a tool.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:05
Since the video is off, do you have handy, like, a sample report and sure, kind of give us a, you know, a sample person,

Speaker 3  1:00:16
yes. What do you guys want? A depression and anxiety person? Or what would you like, that's

Bill Clearfield  1:00:21
who you talked about. I actually, I'm one of my interest is Hashimoto thyroiditis, which you end up with anxiety and depression and gi stuff and and, you know, just about the from stem to

Speaker 3  1:00:33
stern. So it's really funny that you say that, because we just did, I just did it with a doctor today. Her patient was a Hashimotos patient, and she had a lot of thyroid related issues, I'm going to go into an okay, so this is

Speaker 2  1:00:49
a doctor go ahead and can you vouch that this is an upgrade of gene site and genomide, because that those are the ones that are being used out there in the psychiatry world. And I think you have more to offer than than those companies. It

Speaker 3  1:01:02
is much more than that. So I will show right. Okay, so I'm gonna, I'm gonna share my screen, since it's so this is a patient that we call Annie adrenaline, that kind of gives you a little hint. Now we do look broadly and and she did have quite a few different things going on, but in her hot spot. So I'm going to skip over about the celiac related gene and the pesticide related gene, although it's very actually this pesticide related gene makes it hard for her to metabolize pesticides, and she gets very, very anxious with exposure to pesticides. But what you'll see she also had some mast cell related stuff. But you'll see as we get down here, anxiety comes up quite a lot, but she's somebody who did not respond or not want to even try serotonin medicines. But when we get into her anxiety reports, you're going to see she has a lot of adrenaline related things right under the in the hot spot itself. If you don't want to go into the full report, you can go, oh, okay, I want to, I have lots of things in my account. So it's going to be, I want to map this to anxiety, and I want to prescribe some ashwagandha for her, and I'm going to tell her to take that, maybe take one capsule first thing in the morning, and repeat in afternoon, if needed. So I can kind of put all this in here. What by the time I'm done, I would have my whole plan. I'm not I'm going to go into the full report, though, so you can see how it looks. I can load her hot spot fundamentals, which means I can, at a glance, go, what nutrients does she need? She needs more that B 12 and magnesium be the TCN two is that one that doesn't allow you to transport B 12 to the to the whole thing. I'm going to go right to, I'll go to the the Report Builder. I'm going to actually, actually, I'm just going to put off of all this stuff, and I'll put anxiety towards the top so we can go look at it and show you in the whole report why we're so different, but we also have so in her anxiety panel, I can hide the things she doesn't have, but I'm going to just show the things that are her kind of hot spots. She's got a lot of hot spots in her anxiety panel, and she's got two copies of comp tea, which many of you may be aware of that. One is in many gene tools. But then what we do is we go, Well, what does compti do? It increases your adrenaline. Why? Because individuals with this snip have less ability to break down the catecholamines. It takes four times longer, such as adrenaline, norepinephrine and dopamine. And then if you go, what's the clinical significance? Well, it's associated with 2.4 times the risk of panic disorder. And she will tell you that when she gets worried about her kids or her significant other or things like that, somebody not answering the phone, it creates a sense of panic. And then though it will say, what can you do about it? So we can see that the ashwagandha that we already did for the adrenaline receptor also helps here. Now at the same time, you can build your plan right in this report. I can talk about whatever topic, and I set can say you have very clear reasons genomically for your anxiety. And then I would go on and start talking about them, because at the end, this becomes my my plan. Additionally, though she has di oh two, you were interested in Hashimotos. This is not Hashimotos, but this is the ability to convert t4, to t3 in the brain, in her periphery, in in terms of in her blood, her t3 is fine, but she has a benefit that makes it easier for her to convert t4, to t3 in the periphery, that's called di oh one. But she doesn't make enough t3 in her brain. You can see this is associated with a 60% increased risk of anxiety. So I'm going to add that to my anxiety action plan. We're making it so you have a neater little pick list, and I'm going to give her some leiothyronine. So here you can see I could use camp for all, or I could use high selenium foods, but the best evidence, or most direct, would be to use leothrone for her, and then I can say we're going to do two of the five microgram liothionine daily, and that would be without food, And I would kind of do it before breakfast. I'll just do it at the same time. See my trip, and then we go to BDNF. Now, BDNF is also seen in some of the nutrigenomic companies, but we're going to talk about it in more specific ways. This particular BDNF variant makes it hard to convert the precursor, the storage form of BDNF, into the mature form. And this is associated with cognitive decline, as well as problems with anxiety and depression, because you did you know that serotonin medicines won't work with low BDNF. And so there's lots of things we can do, but moderate to intense exercise is one of the best things. So this person was a professor. She still is, and she ultimately changed her schedule, so I'm just going to kind of go exercise so that she could go into work late a couple of mornings a week. If we were to go into other panels, you would see, I'm going to kind of unhide under mast cell. She also does have a fair amount of mast cell stuff, but there's different interventions for different genes. If she had problems with her fcr two, pathway, you would want to avoid steroids for fcr one, you know it's not what she has, but like resveratrol directly, will help to regulate an overactive F, 01, a pathway. So we're very specific. And again, this is just the mental health one. If we go into a patient with cognition issues, the cognitive report is going to be completely different. The we also have a cardio medic, so our general medical report covers cardiac disease, diabetes, obesity, even anesthesia, metabolism, macular degeneration, osteoporosis. So we have different reports. And then at the end, and this isn't going to look like much right now, when you go and you're done, you're going to have You'll have your I mean we haven't written much yet, you'll have whatever you've written about the different topics and then you'll have whatever you've prescribed in terms of diet, medication, supplements and lifestyle. So you can see it's a it's very different than.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:19
Dr Quinn, does it include so.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai