Bill Clearfield  03:57
Is here's Dr Nario, hey, fresh from the wilds of Arizona, huh?

Speaker 1  04:08
Yeah, well, that's where my tip of the week will be coming from. That's where you're what the tip of the week, the League of the week will be coming from. Okay, so you ready for Dubai?

Bill Clearfield  04:26
I was there once. It was pretty scary.

Speaker 1  04:30
Well, that was way back. You're running after somebody. So, yeah, I think we could do this. So it's going to be, if it pushes through, it's going to be a good one, okay, peptides, though, specifically, peptides, right,

Bill Clearfield  04:53
whatever. Okay, I can make, I can make it up with anything, right?

Speaker 1  04:58
Yeah, I leave the dermatology, cosmetic stuff, you're the expert in that

Bill Clearfield  05:06
do that. So

Speaker 1  05:08
I was having a meeting with them this morning, and they're looking at in the future, doing hormones. Also, when we do lectures there, they're doing a curriculum for for Dubai, and they wanted input from, of course, the US contingent, that we're the US contingent. Well, that's unfortunately, it's you

Bill Clearfield  05:37
wait, you better not like halaso. They'll hijack the whole thing.

Unknown Speaker  05:46
We got CME today.

Bill Clearfield  05:49
I hear it's back, but I haven't heard anything officially. So let me, let me. Let me contact him. You let folks in.

Speaker 1  05:57
Okay? Doctor Quinn actually had CME units yesterday, he said, what I what I do? Hear me. You got CME units for your talk. You know what? He said,

Speaker 2  06:09
they should be up and running now, so maybe that one didn't count.

Unknown Speaker  06:15
Also, none for you, correct.

Speaker 2  06:18
No soup for you. I'm sorry. Just wasn't worth it.

Unknown Speaker  06:26
It's their loss,

Speaker 2  06:27
not yours. That's right, yeah, that's the way I'm looking at it.

Speaker 3  06:31
Did you already give them a weather report? No, hey, Joel, you were on yesterday to talk right? You betcha. Wasn't it brilliant. It was. See, I definitely want to get a hold of the rerun, though. I, you know, I'm starting to pack to head back up to Reno. Yeah, so I'll have to go over what Dr Joseph said. But the last week's was huge. And I think you're going to like that one doc. He's he's on to something that's pre dementia, pre Alzheimer's, pre, you know, Parkinson's. And together, I think this whole group's onto something pretty huge. And I think, I think one of the keys to everything that's he and others can't understand to a full extent the relationship between the thyroid and the hormones the way you do. I think it's the missing key.

Bill Clearfield  07:34
Oh, okay, well, I don't know it seems pretty simple to me, but

Speaker 3  07:38
well, and then in connection to neuro biology and the neuro steroids and the neuro hormones somewhere in there, I think, is the reason this patient of Dr Josephs is having a hard time. And I think he he's close to fixing it. And I bet you would, I'm telling you, I think you would have an idea as to why? Well, you and Dr Nario getting together for sure.

Bill Clearfield  08:04
I don't know. Dr Nario wants it. Wants to drag me to Dubai.

Unknown Speaker  08:10
I'll take care of things at the office.

Bill Clearfield  08:13
I wish you would.

Unknown Speaker  08:16
I'll be back. I'll be back tomorrow.

Bill Clearfield  08:18
I wish you would. So you're going to be back tomorrow? You betcha, alright. Should I leave the alarm off?

Speaker 3  08:26
God willing? I think I still remember it, but just in case,

Bill Clearfield  08:34
we have, since Judy left, we had, I put in motion detectors outside, so there's lights outside and on offs with on off lights inside. You know it's gone all week. Yeah, yeah. I went to Miami, Florida. Miami Beach, 22 degrees. It was on the beach yesterday morning. Miami Beach, it was 22 degrees. It was, it was, it was freezing cold.

Speaker 4  09:03
The windshield goes right through you. Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  09:06
We had a, we had a high powered summit on, on Sunday night, I didn't tell you. Dr Nario, so shell was there. Dr klatz, Dr, dr Joseph and Dr Dayton, nice. Dr Campbell and Dr farshian were supposed to show up, but they didn't,

Unknown Speaker  09:26
you know, it's too cold.

Speaker 1  09:28
Well, was that in a wrestling ring? Yeah, a boxing ring?

Bill Clearfield  09:32
Yeah, right, exactly.

Speaker 4  09:35
Well, it's strange. There was no eating the building either, right? You just had a, you know, shielding from the wind, but I told him, turn on your pizza ovens and leave the door open.

Bill Clearfield  09:48
It's it's anywhere I go, everywhere I go, it's the same. I went to San Diego. Once it snowed. I went to Tucson. It rained for three straight days. All the locals were alongside it. They ran out to the desert to watch, watch the flowers bloom, which never blew. You personally, must have been in the wrong San Diego doesn't snow. Here. It's snowed that that when I was there. Oh yeah, it has. It snowed once. It did stick, but it was snow and, you know, it was cold enough to snow.

Speaker 1  10:23
Happens when bills there, right, yeah, right, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  10:26
I'm like, there was a there was a little Abner was it was a cartoon. Was actually drawn by a guy from Wilkes, Barre, Pennsylvania, Al Capp was his name. They had a character in there named fearless Fosdick. Fearless Fosdick walked around with a black cloud over his head. He could be in Hawaii, but just over where he was, it would rain or rain and snow. That's me.

Speaker 5  10:53
I just wanted to make sure everyone can hear

Unknown Speaker  10:59
me. Yeah, yes, we can,

Unknown Speaker  11:01
Bill, please take that cold and take it back with you.

Bill Clearfield  11:04
I heard it was snowing in Tampa.

Speaker 6  11:10
I don't think it snowed, but I have had to light the heaters in my food forest every night for weeks, up at two o'clock in the morning, three o'clock in the morning, making sure the heaters are still going. This is ridiculous.

Unknown Speaker  11:25
Yeah, we have, we have another few days of the bad weather.

Bill Clearfield  11:28
What do you mean? I saw it was 66 today. It wasn't that warm the whole

Unknown Speaker  11:32
week. No, no, but it's going to cool off again. I heard

Bill Clearfield  11:35
I'm not, I'm coming back when, like coming back, I'm coming back at the middle of March.

Unknown Speaker  11:41
Maybe we can, we can have some hail. Yeah, I'm

Bill Clearfield  11:46
coming back in the middle of March for Doctor farsians stuff, and then again in April for ammg, nice. So alright, let's see. It's after five o'clock, and I think Dr Mitchell's here somewhere.

Speaker 1  12:13
Yes, she is in the house.

Bill Clearfield  12:16
Yes, we're happy to have you again. Dr Mitchell, thank you for being with us, but first we have the the tip of the week, or the leak of the week. Why are you looking at that? That sounds terrible.

Speaker 1  12:28
I don't John kind of labeled that. I don't know if it's a nighttime problem for men, but Well, it's labeled leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  12:37
You know, John's, John's, you know, neuron. Neurons. I think he's burned up with all the Ayahuasca that he's done.

Speaker 1  12:47
Well, what we're going to discuss today is almost similar to that aspect. But should I start or what? Yeah, go ahead. Okay, so I was in Tucson, if you didn't see me last week. So it did. It did. So the shamans were pretty happy. So we had shaman sessions, and they were saying it was a blessing for the ones who attended over there. So that's there's meaning behind it. So we've had a good session with with Native American Indians also, and also some some herbs that I definitely want to get into, because as part of our experience is actually immersion, meaning experiencing what we're teaching. So today we're going to be talking about the herb name kratom. So this is not new, but it's actually becoming a little bit of a norm, especially in Arizona, because we actually went to what we call kratom bars. And this is actually in multiple cities, not only in Arizona, they offer kratom teas. Create a mocktails. Create them energy style drinks. And you can actually see that the crowd there is almost like a dispensary. Everybody's happy. Everybody's just so chilled out and leveled.

Bill Clearfield  14:00
It's hallucinogenic. You know, that's right,

Unknown Speaker  14:03
so, and that's why

Bill Clearfield  14:04
you know it's allegedly safe, and these guys were dropping dead with using this stuff.

Speaker 1  14:10
Well, true. So, but that's why now we're going to get into the science behind credo. So again, once something is served in cafes with menu, patients assume it's safe, and often don't disclose use unless ask, and I also see this in clinical practice now with patients presenting me, is it safe? Is it good? What is it right? So let's go into a little deep dive into what Kratom is. A kratom or Mitra gyna speciosa is a Southeast Asian botanical containing active alkaloids, primarily mitragynine and seven hydroxy mitral giant. Mechanistically, it's a partial mu opioid receptor agonist. Adrenergic and serotonergic activities have been found in this herb, and also strong dose dependent pharmacology, which is always related to an opiate. So that's what they're they're kind of relating it to so important distinction here is Kratom is not an opioid, but it is clearly an opioid receptor agonist. So that's what it does. And at low doses, kratom behaves less like a sedative, but more of a stimulant. So this is what the I guess, this bars were made for. This is more for socialism. This is more for lowering anxiety and depression, and you interact with people of how like minded you are in that in one roof. So us fellows went in there and actually experience it, and actually saw the whole the whole party going on, but more of a let's put it in a more scientific perspective. So reported effects of premium includes improved focus and alertness at low doses, right? And it increases sociability, reduce anxiety, improve mood and energy and again, RCTs, not much. There are some feedback I will cite today, but more of this will be done in animal models. So just think angiolytic And antidepressant like effects likely via the mono aminergic signaling. So human survey data consistently show for patients using low dose kratom for mood regulation, Energy Support and psychological coping, not intoxication. So human data, as I mentioned to you again, we do not have much controlled human data, but a 2020, randomized, double blind placebo controlled trial published in the Journal of psychoactive drugs, examine regular kratom users using a cold pressor test. So that's where you put your hand in a very cold bucket of water, and times you in terms of how long you stay in there and release it. So findings were, pain tolerance increased from 11 seconds pre dose to 25 seconds, one hour post, kratom placebo showed no change. This confirms measurable analgesic effects, not just subjective reports. Risks are real and those dependent, dependence with daily or escalating use will happen, withdrawal symptoms, nausea, constipation, sedation at higher doses, most adverse outcomes occur with high doses, concentrated extracts and poly substance use. So when you're partying, when you're going crazy, you're using alcohol, benzos and also opiates along with it, that's when the trouble starts. So clinical takeaway here, cram sits in a gray zone, not benign, not equivalent to prescription opiates. Our role is an endorsement or condemnation, especially we are now going to be educated about this when we see it in our clinical practices. So it's risk, gratification, dose awareness and patient education. If patients are drinking creative socially, we should at least know why, how much and how often. So bottom line, low dose stimulant, mood and energy is produced. Higher doses, amalgas, sedation and even addiction sometimes, and bars normally uses this and sometimes disclosures are not there, so clinical Conversations Matter More than ideologies. Thank you, and I hope that kind of opens some some light about kratom. For for us clinicians,

Speaker 3  17:57
they think it's serious enough to where they can now test for it, also in blood testing, urine test is, I know for sure. Oh, I'm

Speaker 1  18:07
bad, I'm not sure so, oh yeah, we didn't get tested in Arizona.

Bill Clearfield  18:12
You know, it's the it's, did you try it?

Speaker 1  18:14
I tried it. Yeah, dancing like a

Bill Clearfield  18:18
shaman. Okay. Is that why your hair is all mussed up tonight.

Speaker 1  18:21
No, I forgot my Tacoma. The wind's so strong here, so that's the only reason why.

Bill Clearfield  18:29
Okay, okay, yeah, yeah, you know, this is the poor man's hooch. You know, you can buy it. And, you know, in a in a smoke shop around here.

Speaker 1  18:43
Oh, don't you know they'd only, they'd only sell kratom there, but also Kava. So these bars are getting a little bit more dynamic, so they're combining stuff. But again, it's a version

Bill Clearfield  18:54
that's education. Go to Dubai. They have hookah bars on every every corner, you know?

Unknown Speaker  18:58
Oh, true. Oh, true. Fun.

Bill Clearfield  19:02
I told you I've been there already. Alright? Well, Doctor Mitchell, thank you for coming. Coming back to regale this, this ragtag group talking about kratom. You know, last week we talked about Battlefield acupuncture. You know it was something useful. Hey, so you don't notice Dr Mitchell, or maybe you do, but Dr Mario is taking the integrative medicine fellowship at the University of Arizona, and this is what they're this is what they're teaching you to go to, to go to bars,

Speaker 1  19:41
and don't forget the prostate tidbit that I mentioned to you.

Speaker 5  19:46
I'm glad I've got shaman medicine, or I don't know how to term it is part of their curriculum. I think that sounds really cool.

Speaker 1  19:54
It is. So we even did, they did some ceremony to us. They kind of herbs. They kind of smoked around us, so they kind of wanted us to immerse also in the Native American culture. So that's why this is a different level of integrative medicine. So we always know about stem cells, right supplements, but this one really goes down to the basics, and even heritage integrative medicine. Cultural Heritage medicine is covered by this specific curriculum.

Speaker 5  20:22
I think this is only going to grow. I can tell you that mitochondrial research is now looking at some of these shamanistic rituals and seeing how they can affect mitochondria, so we can go into that, maybe in the after session. Okay, yeah, okay,

Speaker 1  20:39
you're asking for it. You're going to get booked.

Bill Clearfield  20:43
Yeah, you're gonna, you're gonna, is John on? See if John's on.

Speaker 5  20:48
Okay, share my screen. Hopefully you guys see everything, and it'll look great.

Bill Clearfield  20:56
Should I introduce you or just skip right to it? Okay? So, so everybody this Dr Siobhan Mitchell, who's been on with us before, Chief Scientific Officer at MitoQ, completed a PhD at SUNY Albany and a postdoctoral fellowship on brain aging at the University of Washington. You know, I was at SUNY Binghamton for a while. So Dr Mitchell held roles at the three largest food companies in the world, Unilever, Nestle and PepsiCo, leading trials in Europe, North America and Asia, investigating the effects of nutrition on cognitive decline, mood and performance. Additionally, she was senior. Did you come up with anything, especially when they started coming out with the diet stuff and cognitive Yeah? But if you work for them, if you work for them, you had to hide it, right? Yeah, pretty much. Okay, all right, I can see that's how I get myself in trouble all the time. Leading trials at North America, investigating effects of nutrition on cognitive client, mood and performance. She was the senior director at Noom. I tried that for a while too, but they were annoying. You know, you have to type in every single thing, you know, eight times a day. It got to be too much, where she directed a team investigating weight loss and mental health digital programs using cognitive behavioral therapy and methods. Doctor. Doctor, Mitchell has given talks on Nutritional Neuroscience at conferences all over the world, offered over 80 authored, over 80 papers. Holds eight patents for aging, cognition and mood products and so. And she's been with us before, and it's always fascinating. And so Doctor Mitchell, she's going to talk to us about mitochondrial therapeutics. So take it away. Yeah.

Speaker 5  22:55
So thank you. And in fact, I just have this blurb here because my team is always saying, I don't talk about where I'm from and what I'm doing, but you basically said all these things very nicely. So thank you. All right, so now I'm just going to get into a little bit of basics and probably move quickly past this. So I'm going to talk to us about the mitochondria, kind of mechanisms on basic aging, but I also want to bring them to how is that going to look like in terms of diseases of aging, and also how you can think very preventatively. So how do you look at your mitochondria in the earliest stages of chronic diseases and extend that health span? And so just to kind of get everyone on the same page. Mitochondria, of course, are important for ATP, but they're also doing, I would say, almost a CSO role in the cell. So they're behind so many other things that the cell's doing, like calcium, apoptosis, stem cell regulation, and particularly immune regulation. And I'm going to go into this a little bit more in this presentation, because I think this has not been given as much attention about how you could target mitochondria for better immune responses. This is a very fascinating trending field right now. So to also give us a sense of where we think mitochondria are in terms of a really early indicator of aging. It is so early, because we have lots of data showing that mitochondria start to dysfunction at around your 20s and 30 's, and the best example, of course, 's in your muscle. So everyone 's aware that your muscle, your function in terms of exercise and peak performance, is optimal around your 20 's early 's, and just starts to go down. And this 's because you're actually having less ATP production in your muscles, and also less mitochondria copies in your muscles, starting from age 30 and then going on to age 80. So this is, I think, one of these things that everyone always accepts. And I don't know if we have to always accept that, I think we should pay a lot of attention to how we can work with our mitochondria best to to have this minimal effect on our muscles and the way that they're producing energy. So the one thing though, is that there's a lot of things that can cause our mitochondria to dysfunction, and so there 's innate things like just the fact that you are making a lot of oxidative stress in your mitochondria. I don't have to tell people about that whole mechanism, because I think everyone 's really aware of it, and the fact that we're having a lot of inflammation occurring our bodies as we age, and the fact that we have metabolism issues like poor glucose control, etc. But then there's also a lot of things that we can't control very well from our environment, and these are things like Microplastics and various infection 's and even molds and toxic 's toxics or pesticide 's and heavy metals that are particularly affecting our mitochondria. So I think people are always imagining, okay, you know, where are we going to look at something like, like an immune response in terms of, like, a mold infection, like, that 's one thing, but you should also look at your mitochondria. And just to bring my argument home even further, the way that I even think about these other hallmarks of aging, and so we are aware that there's about 12 of them currently. 's probably be more added on. A lot of them can actually be shown to be due to a mitochondrial dysfunction root cause. So for instance, Telomere attrition. Well, Telomere 's are really being caused to shorten prematurely because of things like oxidative stress, other areas like, you know, looking at cellular senescence is do the fact of like lower ATP production, lower NAD production, mitochondrial DNA damage. So we could just go on and on about all the different ways that mitochondria function are contributing to these 12 Hallmark 's. And then, to just sort of raise my point, from before, when we look at these aging mechanisms, we can then start to see that mitochondrial dysfunction can be causing the basic sort of early, early mechanism 's of type two diabetes and cardiovascular disease. I won't go into all those during my presentation today, because it would take too long. But yeah, come, come to me or email me afterwards if you want to hear about some of these. I will be diving into some of this for cardiovascular disease, though. And so I thought what I would do is, since I'm not going to go into every single root cause of mitochondria in an aging related disease, I would bring up one that I think kind of takes really strong precedence these days, and that 's mitochondria effects on our immune response and so particularly things like covid, and then also long covid, and also other things that immune response can have influence on like, for instance, amyloid production in Alzheimer 's. So there's a lot of data coming out these days that even how much amyloid you're producing is because of some of the ways that mitochondria is modulating our immune response in our cell's and the way this is mostly happening is through a C gas sting pathway, which helps release cytokine 's from immune cells. And so what 's going on is, when you have an infection like covid or some 's, one 's that are related to Alzheimer 's, like H PQQ, what is going on is your mitochondria are producing VO OXA 's stress because of that infection, they're also releasing mitochondrial DNA. And because mitochondrial DNA are considered foreign, because they're obviously originally their own cell, this basic sort of response to seeing these this different DNA is to have a cytokine kind of reaction, and this involves the NL 3p, three, inflammasome. And when this is, I think, kind of, I would say, under control, this inflammasome can then get resolved, and everything 's fine. But when it 's not under control, which often happens in things like, for instance, long covid, or in the case of inflammaging and Alzheimer 's, you get this inflammasome that's going on and on 's being turned on because of this mitochondrial DNA, DNA release 's always on. And you get amyloid over production to the point of plaques, etc. And so there's a lot of things that can make mitochondria go wrong. 's I mentioned before. And so what I like to talk to you today about, you know, how can we keep it going the right way? And I have devoted my career to looking at mitochondria, especially for brain function, and I have found that there are some nutrients that seem to be pulling more of their own weight, so I have listed them here. So omega three 's obviously B vitamin 's key to 's, ergothione, I don't know how much you've heard of these before, but I would like to focus on some that I think are especially really important for the present sort of topic. And the results I want to talk about, which is PQQ, Mitoquinol, also called MitoQ, and NAD precursor 's. I'm going to start talking about NAD precursor 's, but I'm not going to go into depth either, because I'm sure you've had discussion 's about these before. So NAD, of course, is very important for mitochondrial function, because this is really how we're making ATP through the electron transport chain. But there's also many other roles that it has in cells, and especially around activating sirtuins that can then invoke a lot of cellular pathways that are good for using energy efficiently. I think 's The best way of putting a bit, and also for things like DNA repair. So we all know D and Id 's important. We wanna keep it up as much as possible. And what is interesting is all these NAD precursor 's, and what they're delivering to us, I think you could try to talk about NAD 's, all right, you know, if it's getting a certain amount of, you know, NAD increase in the bloodstream from something like NMN or nr or even nicotinamide, it must be doing its job in terms of then going and having these good effects on your mitochondria. But that is not true. This is something where I think there's a lot more to be understood about how well some of these NAD kind of precursor 's are helping NAD be used more efficiently in the mitochondria. And so, for instance, when I see some of these, these kind of, I would say, claims coming out here, like there's an NMN h, which is now being marked as a more active form because it makes more NAD in the plasma. I don't know if that's enough for me to believe in it, I would need to see more clinical trials in it, which I have not seen.

Speaker 5  31:59
Yet another important mitochondrial nutrient is PQQ. And I have not heard a lot about this in the US, which is interesting, because I'm based in New Zealand, and so I hear a lot about what 's popular in Asia, and this is extremely popular in Asia. So PQQ is mitochondrial antioxidant that has various roles in mitochondria. So for instance, it can help enhance NADH oxidation, and also can help with mitochondrial biogenesis. But what 's really interesting about this particular molecule is 's very good at getting into the brain, so I think that 's really important so it can get into the mitochondria, but can also get into the brain quite effectively. So it 's been researched a lot for things like improving cognition in young, healthy people and also older people. So this is, this is, I think, a nutrient. What I would say 's is anyone 's having brain fog, if anyone 's having kind of poor sort of cognitive ability in various kind of aspects, like they should think about PQQ as a way to target mitochondria. What I would say, though, is that when you look at all the different kinds of mitochondrial nutrients that are out there, I would say that Mitoquinol seems to have the most data in terms of clinical results. So I'm going to do a little bit of a deep dive on Mitoquinol is something that I think can not only be very complementary to these other ones I just mentioned, PQQ and NADH boosters, but can also take over the roles as well. So for instance, Mitoquinol can activate Sirtuins. It's also a very powerful antioxidant. It can increase, I would say, a lot of these problems with, you know, mitochondrial turnover. So it can help with phytophagy and also help with biogenesis and also decrease DNA damage. So I'm just going to, sort of quickly, just set the stage about how this is all working. So mitochondria. 's what I would call mitochondrially targeted antioxidants. So 's designed about 25 years ago by Mike Murphy and Robin Smith in New Zealand, where they were trying to solve the problem of CoQ 10 being a really effective mitochondrially antioxidant, but when you take oral CoQ 10, it does not get into mitochondrially that well, because it 's large size and it 's hydrophilic hydrophobic nature. So what they said was, alright, if we can put a special tag onto a CoQ 10 moiety, then maybe we can have something that delivers a lot of antioxidant benefits to the mitochondria. So they designed mitochondrially triphenylphosphonium tag that was very positively charged, so it helps get into the negatively charged mitochondria, and they saw through basic cell experiments that it obviously prevents a lot of oxidative stress being formed, especially when the cell's stress 's but also protects the membrane against damage and Upregulates antioxidant 's that are important for, yeah, kind of endogenous mitochondrially protection, and that's including protecting against DNA damage, and more importantly, it helps support ATP production, especially during those times of stress. So things like hypoxia, things like infection, all the rest. And so now I just want to dive into one area that MitoQ has been shown to be very, very effective in, and that's showing, I would say improvements inflammasome in diverse populations. So I wanted to have a little bit of a primer on what flow mated dilation is, because it 's not commonly used in the clinic, but it is a biomarker that seemed to be more effective in predicting cardiovascular risk than almost all the traditional biomarkers you can think of, including hypertension, BMI, Hyperlipidemia, family history, so it seems like FMD, if you have a poor FMD according to your age, this is a really big predictor that something is wrong with Your vascular system, and it could be mitochondrial origin, and this is where you should focus on your mitochondria. And so just to go into some of that data, one study that has come out in the last two years, and I'm really going to only go into not that 29 clinical studies you saw on that, that chart over there, but just about six studies that I think are really pivotal that all were published this last year, and one of them is looking at flow media dilation in post menopausal women. And so everyone here is aware that there's a lot that goes wrong when you reach menopause, so you lose estrogen, and estrogen is very important for mitochondrially function. So estrogen is helping support not only the the growth of mitochondrially but also the oxidative stress produced by mitochondria. And so what is really seen is when you lose that estrogen at those kind of last stages of perimenopause, vascular health starts to deteriorate, and this seems to be due to the fact that the nitric oxide release that is required to have, you know, optimal vasodilation, that is, you know, basically what 's being measured by FMD dilation, this goes down, and this is due to the excess oxidative stress that 's occurring in the mitochondria that then seems to block this nitric oxide release that should be happening. This study that I'm showing you right now, that was done at University of Colorado, was very interesting in the fact that they wanted to understand if you had a late menopause. So late menopause is 's 55 or older. Are you having better vascular health than women who have a normal menopause, so not anything kind of like surgical menopause, or, you know, ovarian insufficiency, but just normal menopause. And what they saw was that the FMD, the flow made dilation, was better if you are having that late menopause that you have just even a few more years of estrogen and progesterone in your system. And so then they had the next question of all right, what happens if you use a mitochondrial antioxidant, like mitochondria to try to address that oxidative stress? That might be the reason why they're having this, this vasodilation problem. So they use just one dose of mitochondria, used an acute dose of 160 milligram. 's is a proof of concept study, and they gave this and then an hour later, looked at flow, made dilation, and they saw that there was an improvement to the point where normal onset women and late onset women, in terms of menopause, start to look more like their pre menopausal peers. So I thought this was really remarkable, because in this study, they also showed that, you know, these, these women, after they got the mitochondria, also had less oxidative stress. They had better lipid 's as well, too. And it was interesting, they kind of pinpointed palmetic acid is one of the lipid 's that seem to change most of all during this kind of post menopausal transition. So that's something also that I think probably deserves a little bit more effects in terms of understanding how that that's working, why mitochondrially seem to be important in that way. But now they're following up with a much bigger study looking at chronic dose of mitochondria, and they are hoping to publish it this year, and that will include about 100 women. So I think this will be a really important step for having women be aware that menopause, it's got a lot of things that people are aware of in terms of symptoms, like just the overall vasodilator situation. But they should also be thinking about their cardiovascular health in the long term, because this is now going to be decreasing. And if you're not going to be taking HRT, you're going to have you're going to have issues in terms of your risk for even things like hypertension and high Cholesterol are going to go up quite a bit. So

Speaker 5  40:40
they don't like it, or they can't get into the habit of it. What was interesting in this study was that, in kind of a similar manner, they used a kind of concept study of looking at 80 milligram 's, is just one dose that they gave to non exercisers, and then an hour, looked at their flow, made Dilation, and saw that this improved, and that also people felt like the exercise was more fruitful with the mitochondria. So what I think is really interesting about this is just this idea of, if you 's got people who are sedentary that do not like to exercise, this is a way that you can still preserve their vascular health and perhaps also get them to be a little bit more excited by exercise in the future. And we also have lots of studies showing that MitoQ is good for exercise in terms of overall muscle output, in terms of power, in terms of exercise performance, like in time trials. I always feel like these are nice to mention, but I don't know how often people are really trying to get, like their personal best in exercise. I think they're just trying to make it easier. So I think this study is a good indication of, you know, you might be making exercise just a little bit easier, which I think is a huge benefit, especially as you get older. And then this study right here, I have to say, is our newest study. So bear with me. This has not been published yet, but this is the biggest study we have ever done with Mitoquinol, and this is where we used 179 participants to look at how mitochondria could be helpful for liverhealth. So we basically enrolled these participants who had concerns about their liverhealth. It wasn't like they'd been diagnosed with anything, so they didn't have any kind of actual fatty liver disease, ma 's, LD, or anything like that. But they just had that feeling of like, you know, my diet 's not great, or, you know, I know I'm under a lot of stress and I'm worried about my liver. And so what we did was we then gave 12 weeks of MitoQ at 20 milligrams, and we saw that alt was decreased by 7.5 units per liter with Mitoquinol, compared to like a four, four unit decrease with the control group. We didn't see 's much changed with 's T but I want to also just make sure that you guys are aware this is a healthy population. They were not someone that is being diagnosed with any kind of liver disease. So I think, once again, in that kind of preventative 's, you've got people that are concerned about their liver, concerned about, you know, how much damage they've done from whatever they did in the past, or even what they're doing to their liver now, because, you know, we can't always control the things that we take into our body, that this is like a think of maybe good sort of preventative measure that you can just kind of add on to your your sort of way of living. Because what I feel like 's very frustrating about a lot of the issues with liverhealth 's. There 's not a lot of other solution 's besides just saying exercise more, you know, improve your diet. So I recognize there are some medication 's coming out for things like fatty liver, but, you know, I think people are hesitant to get onto that bandwagon. So this is an easier thing for people to be interested in trying. So not only did we see improvements in alt, we also saw improvements in cholesterol. We're still kind of working all the data out, but this one was more important for if you had poor baseline cholesterol, if you had, you know, for instance, high total cholesterol or high LDL. So I'll be happy to share more results with you in a little bit, but we also saw that using some of these classic questionnaire 's, like the perceived stress scale, the child or fatigue scale, that there was also improvement in perceived stress and overall weakness, so IE fatigue and also concentration, was improved as well too. So so I think this is where, you know, people, when they take something like a supplement, they sometimes realize this is just good for my overall health. It's good for my overall aging, but they also want to notice a benefit. So we're really excited to see that, that this is something that people can notice as well too. We also looked at some other kinds of indicators of high inflammasome, so things like lymphocyte percentages, RDW, D, WBC. So we know these are things that you know, are always being checked in in a physician 's office. And we saw that those who had higher baseline sort of inflammasome, or kind of, you know, immune dysfunction were showing even more effects of Mitoquinol on things like alt. So this study, I think, was also another really exciting study for us this year, because this is the first study that was showing how Mitoquinol can be beneficial for people with diabetes. And this study focused on how, for instance, people, when they have diabetes, you know, they usually get a lot of clinical care in terms of their blood glucose control, and then maybe a little bit of a cursory kind of, you know, let's check your cholesterol, let's check a few other sort of cardio, cardiovascular risk factors. But what can happen, quite honestly, like, like, more than people realize is that while the diabetes is being controlled, a lot of the oxidative stress can then bring on damage to the heart that might not be perceived unless you're having patients get Echocardiograms, which you know, we all know are a little bit more effort, and natto was being called for. So this study in particular, want to look at how you could use Mitoquinol to prevent heart damage, so basically, prevent chronic heart failure in diabetic patients. So they gave, sorry, they gave Mitoquinol for 12 weeks at 40 milligrams to those with type two diabetes, and then they used an Mrs. To look at heart diastolic function, and also use of energy through creatine ATP ratio. And so I think everyone 's familiar with how this works. Basically, they're just looking at, you know, that ratio of creatine phospholipid, which is kind of like, you know, when ATP 's being used up, versus ATP. And what they saw overall was that this, this effect of Mitoquinol, after these 12 weeks, showed an improvement in energy production by 15% so basically indicating that, you know, this heart damage that wasn't being perceived by these patients, or even frankly, their doctors, was being benefited by something like Mitoquinol over time. So we thought that was really exciting. We also saw that PEDSR was improved and diastolic function was improved in both resting and stress and stress induced states. So this seems to be an overall, really beneficial kind of supplement to use for people with diabetes. And then maybe also what we're hoping to do is now seeing this effect that maybe we can look at, you know, this kind of heart function in people with cardiovascular risk factors as well, too. And so then lastly, and now I'm going to move into this sort of immune function, role of mitochondrially antioxidants. And this is where I mentioned earlier that mitochondrially do seem to have a really important role in immune response. And so in this situation where people had been exposed to SARS, to COVID through either a family member or a close colleague or something, were enrolled in a study, kind of like, once again, a proof of concept study to look at whether, after getting that exposure, could Mitoquinol decrease the level of infection, so the sort of rate of infection, and also the level of symptoms if they did get infected. So in 40 participants who took 20 milligrams of mitochondria after, you know, getting this exposure, they saw that only 30% got that COVID infection through a positive test, compared to a 30 out of 40 that had been just given a control placebo. And so not only that, when they looked at the way that these symptoms manifested in those that did get a COVID infection, they saw there 's shorter symptom duration and reduced severity and also a delayed onset. And so what we think is going on, and this has not been proven in this study, because this is just a really quick sort of, I would say, proof of concept study to then mandate a much bigger study. They believe this is through that inflammasome kind of pathway that I talked to about before earlier this has been shown in animal studies, so we're hoping to get more data on this over the next year or so. Oh, and then I also want to point out that we're also looking at how long COVID can be affected by Mitoquinol. So that's another study that we're hoping to get some data from the NEX, I would say nine months.

Speaker 5  50:06
So this is the one pre clinical study that I want to share with you today, and I think this is really important for the overall aging mechanisms that I discussed with you earlier. So it's one thing to look at, things like cardiovascular health. It's another to look at. You know, how can you prevent some, like, really big problems that happen almost like to, yeah, a majority of people who reach an older age, and one of these big problems is clonal hematopoiesis. Hematopoiesis, this is where white blood cells, white stem cells, white blood step cell's start to have more mutation 's in gene 's that are controlling DNA expression. So the dnm, NMN, T gene in particular, this is where I think this has now been shown to be occurring in about 50% over 50% of 80 year old 's so when you have this clonal hematopoiesis, you are now going to have much higher chance of cancer, clearly, and also poor immune responses, so you'll get more infection. And I think even for people who are younger than age 80, the rate of having clonal hematopoiesis, this is maybe about 10 to 20% around age 60 to 70. So it's something that that I think is not being really looked at that much. But if you can preserve this kind of, you know, mitochondrially function in these, these stem cells, you can have overall better protection against, you know, not only cancer, but it also had better immunity. So in this particular study, they used a mouse model to look at how with this D mint a mutation, if you added MitoQ, does this seem to be helping decrease the amount of cells that had this mutation. And so what they saw was that the cell's that had this mutation basically had mitochondria that were overactive. So, and you know, actually seem to be proliferating more because of that. But interestingly, when mitochondrially was accumulating in these overactive cells, they saw that these cells were going towards apoptosis more so basically getting rid of cells. And at the same time, the cells that were healthy, that did not have this mutation, they saw overall better function as well, too, in terms of better sort of maturation and to mature cell's as well. So I thought this was an interesting one to bring up, because this is one of these diseases of aging that there is no good solution for, and is something that, you know, people are only a little bit aware of, so probably there needs to be a little bit more understanding. I think this only understand like this only usually starts to happen when people are more aware, for instance, that there's a solution for it. So this, this could be a potential solution. We're now in discussions with this pi to do human study as well, so we're excited about that. And so just because I've been talking in a lot of these studies, I want to just highlight we have this program called the mitochondrially Collaborative Research Program MCRP, where we're happy to offer Mitoquinol, mitochondrially test products, placebo or powder used for pre clinical studies, to any researchers that are interested in looking at a kind of mitochondrial function or a disease or condition that they think has a mitochondrial role. So right now, I think we have about 20 different studies that are ongoing. You can go look them up at clinical trials dot CoV, but you know, we find that it's really exciting how much mitochondria seem to be important for basically everything. Right now we have a study that's looking at, for instance, PTSD. So looking at how PTSD affects vascular function. So this is another area I think people are not always aware of, and that, you know, maybe Mitoquinol can be used to help with the vascular dysfunction 's associated with PTSD. We have another study that's looking at, for instance, stroke rehab using Mitoquinol, so helping improve gait function, and as well, as you know, various kinds of quality life measures. And I can just go on about all the different studies, but I just wanted to give you sort of an array of some of the ones that I think you know. You might not think would have a mitochondrial kind of application, but in fact, do seem to be something that mitochondrially can affect. All right. So now I just want to go into some of the clinical applications of some of those mitochondrial therapeutics that I mentioned earlier. So the NAD precursors and PQQ and Mitoquinol, because I, for instance, was very interested to try to understand, you know, there's a lot of excitement in the news about things like NADH precursor 's, and then we're not always sure about, you know, what are they actually being shown to be clinically useful for? So I wanted to put that together. So I 's start off with PQQ, where I basically just looked at all the different studies that have been using PQQ, and what kinds of effects that we're seeing with them, in terms of the dose and then also the population. So what was seen overall with PQQ is, as I mentioned before, it seems to have, you know, pretty robust effects for cognition. So not just young people, but also old people in various cognitive domain. 's like processing feed cognitive flexibility. It also seems to be, oops, sorry, useful for things like hypercholesterolemia. People who have insomnia did report also having improvements in sleep quality. It has overall good effects for inflammasome C reactive protein, and also has been shown to improve blood flow, which you know, might be one of the reasons why it's also helpful for cognition that 's not been looked at as much so. So this one, I think you know, the overall cognitive data is the strong 's I would say, if people are coming in with, as I mentioned, no mental fatigue or just cognitive issues. PQQ is something to try for. When I looked at NMN and nr, I was surprised how little data there is. So I know people say subjectively that they're noticing a lot of effects of NMN, but in the end, I would say they're not really that strong. So for instance, NMN, the main results have been seen in terms of sleep quality and elderly, improved insulin and prediabetics, improved hypertension with quite large doses. So that 's something to be aware of, and also peripheral artery 's when I looked at nr I was very disappointed to see that there was actually not that much data on any, I would say, more kind of common clinical feature. So there was some data showing for people with COPD that there's a little bit less inflammasome, once again, another effect for peripheral artery disease, an effect in terms of mitochondrially function and heart failure, but not really showing any kind of like, I would say, functional benefits, and then also some, yeah, sleep improvement in terms of sleep metabolic rate. But then, once again, I feel like this is really subtle. 's really hard for people to think notice something like that, and there's no kind of subjective improvement in overall sleep. And so the other thing I tried to do is look at some of the ones that did not show any effects. And so, for instance, nr had several papers come out in this past year, 2025 showing no effect for long COVID, no effect for hypertension. It's, I think, being a little bit more challenging for us to really understand how nr can be beneficial. I still feel like it has benefits, but I think it's really clear that, you know, it's, it's maybe something that probably would be more useful in a combination therapy, for instance, or something that seems a bit more targeted for what it's doing. And then, just lastly, yeah, I want to summarize some of the things that have been seen with Mitoquinol. And yeah, these are things I didn't mention particularly in this presentation, but just so you're aware, seems to be helpful for early signs of cardiovascular disease, in particular stiffness, and then also hypertension. It seems to be useful for diabetes. In that sort of diabetes, cardiovascular protection study that I just presented, it also seems to have effects for peripheral artery disease and heart failure, very similar to the NADH precursor 's, but then moreover, it's, it's been shown to be effective for fibromyalgia and also chronic fatigue syndrome in terms of subjective effects in pain and then also cognitive improvement. So, so then, then lastly, I showed you some nice liver effects, but we have also seen that it's useful for hepatitis C as well. So it can prove alt in people with hepatitis C, and also for those with kidney disease, it can prove overall vascular health as well. So so these are, I think, what I would call the areas that we do have conclusive data. I wouldn't say conclusive, actually, 's not the right word, but some data showing that, you know, there is some clinical application 's, and I hope next year I can show you a lot more. So these are some of the references, and, yeah, 's probably about the right time. So I am happy to discuss any questions,

Speaker 2  1:00:01
yeah, first question I have, 's on the last slide was that were the dose numbers? Is that daily? Yeah?

Speaker 5  1:00:08
Daily, yes. Oh, and one more thing, I just want to point out, this has been something that has been communicated to me just in the last week. So this is very preliminary, is that large study I told you about that was looking at FMD in a large cohort of 100 subjects, they have been reporting cognitive benefits in that one so improved memory. And this is people who are older, so age 65 and above, who are not having any kind of diagnosis of cognitive disorder, 's MCR or Alzheimer 's, but have seen that that you know, through some some cognitive testing that they're seeing, especially verbal memory and also visual memories improving.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:58
There's a question of someone with thalassemia, mildly elevated, 's T or alt less than two times normal. Any benefit from MitoQ?

Speaker 5  1:01:09
I think maybe there would be a benefit for alt. I don't think we have. I you know, we might have some pre clinical data supporting a Thalassemia application. I would have to check

Bill Clearfield  1:01:23
NEX question, what about side effects and any drop outs from the studies,

Speaker 5  1:01:29
from from which study, or from any of them? Yeah, yeah. So the main adverse effects that have been reported in clinical studies have been gastrointestinal, and this is just, you know, mild nausea, mild stomach upset, usually something that you know goes away after a few days. So you know, usually in clinical trials, it's something that you know, the patients report it first, and sorry, the subjects report it first, and then it goes away in terms of dropouts, I think there's been very few drop outs in any of these studies in terms of, you know, the actual sort of symptoms or side effects. Usually it's just drop outs due to, you know, the usual reasons, just disinterest, or, you know, motivation and our customer data, I would say the most common thing is also gastrointestinal side effects and then after that headache. But to me, I'm never quite sure if people are really having a headache due to mitochondria, or 's maybe just something that is, you know, more coincidence, it's hard to say, but usually we just tell people if you're having any kind of issue at all, just either go the lowest dose that you can, or just take a few days break from it and then try it again. So of course, we don't always follow up as well with our customers, not as well as we do with subjects.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:56
The question about is this similar to eurolithini? This

Speaker 5  1:03:00
is really different from urolithin A. So urolithin a, I actually did research in urolithin A when I was at Nestle. That is a pure Mitophagy mechanism. So urolithin A is very good at improving Mitophagy. I'm not convinced that you want Mitophagy to be happening all the time. I think Mitophagy might be one of those things that you would benefit from getting a boost from time to time, but maybe not something that you want regularly. So that 's how your lithin A works. Mitoquinol is working through this antioxidant mechanism. So it looks a lot like a CoQ 10 molecule, except for the fact that at one end, it has this tag that I mentioned before that is positively charged and that allows it into the mitochondria. So the main thing I want people to understand about Mitoquinol, that makes it rather unique, is that it can get into the mitochondria up to 90% and almost no other supplement can get into mitochondrially in that same level. For instance, oral CoQ 10, maybe about 5% of it will arrive in the mitochondria. And I was just reading a recent study where they gave CoQ 10 to older subjects and they saw absolutely no improvement in mitochondrial function whatsoever, while mitochondria has been shown to improve mitochondri mitochondrial function, so things like, you know, in humans, mitochondrially membrane potential and decreased oxidative stress. The other thing that I also want to point out about MitoQ is that it's um, I would say, like a mild and coupler of mitochondria. So I don't know if you guys are aware of this idea of the mitochondrial Redox theory of aging, that you want a really balanced amount of oxidative stress. You don't you want some oxidative stress, right? So I think everyone's aware that you know oxidative stress, in itself, can be a really important signaler, but you just don't want it to be an overload. So I think that's another sort of area that mitochondrially excels in is kind of keeping this balance of oxidative stress by by, you know, controlling how much the mitochondrially are going to make energy overall.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:16
What is the MitoQ? What is mitochondrially derived from?

Speaker 5  1:05:20
It's not derived from anything. It's purely synthetic. So they take basically an Eid benone. I don't know if you know what I've been on is it's like a shortened version of CoQ 10. And they attach this triphenylphosphonium Tag through, you know, a chemical reaction. So, yeah, it's, it's not found in nature.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:41
Do the doses that you're showing here continue after the symptoms improve?

Speaker 5  1:05:47
Yeah, so I would say the main way to use this is to address these symptoms and then try to go down to a maintenance dose if possible. So the great thing about Mitoquinol is it can accumulate in your mitochondria. And then once you get to a steady state, it's just doing 's job. It gets recycled the same way CoQ 10 does. So I would say, yeah, like, you don't need to give people a huge amount to start getting an effect, and either you don't need to keep it at that same level to have the effects stay there's no kind of adaptation, if you will. The The other thing that 's interesting about Mitoquinol 's, it seems to plateau in terms of the amount that 's accumulate in cells. So at some point, the cell's will turn over, or the mitochondrially will turn over, and then they will just, you know, exude the Mitoquinol. So we haven't really had any effects that seem like, you know, due to some sort of toxic overload of Mitoquinol. That doesn't seem to happen naturally in humans, not at these doses. At least,

Bill Clearfield  1:06:50
does increasing CoQ 10 increase mitochondrially?

Speaker 5  1:06:55
No, yeah. So CoQ 10 's a totally different molecule in terms of, it doesn't have that tag. So if you were trying to measure CoQ 10 in your blood, and then, you know, see an effect of MitoQ, you're not going to see mitochondria increasing CoQ 10 at all. I mean, MitoQ does seem to show improvements in other antioxidants that you know are mitochondrial. So we have human data showing that it could improve sod levels and catalase. We have not seen it improve CoQ 10, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:33
any biomarkers that would be useful to follow, to follow the effects of the

Speaker 5  1:07:40
Yeah, so, I mean, some of those I mentioned in terms of biomarkers that I think are easiest to do, like, probably blood pressure is one. So we have a lot of people that are using it for for that. And then, you know, any kind of marker inflammasome that you can think of, right? So, MDA, il six, that type of thing. So, yeah, that's probably the easiest. I often find that, you know, biomarkers are one thing that you can do, but then asking a patient if they're noticing an effect is another, and that's where we get people I would see the most kind of benefits of, you know, people feeling like this is really adding to their health is that they feel like more energetic and they have, yeah, as I said, less brain fog, and kind of feeling of like, you know, that they can't get through their day. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:08:37
Dr antoli asks about NT factor, got one NT factor, capital, n capital, T. That's, I think Dr Ross Pelton, I think that's,

Speaker 1  1:08:51
yeah, these are phospholipid 's enhances your cell membranes. So for trans, for cell transport, I

Speaker 5  1:09:02
don't, I don't think I'm aware of any data on that at all, so no idea.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:05
All right, we'll have to get him on that. What about cost and availability?

Speaker 5  1:09:11
Yeah, well, this is something that you can get from fullscript very easily. I know some people don't like fullscript. So you can also go to mitochondria.com and there's a practitioner portal. And through that practitioner portal, you can get, you know, very discounted rate for the practitioner brand. So we have a practitioner brand where you can get 20 milligram capsules, which we think is, you know, the most useful clinical dose, at around $60 per one month box. So yeah. And then if you order a whole bunch of them, you get multiple discounts. So it usually works that way.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:48
Okay, can you take Coenzyme Q 10 and Mito, the MitoQ together?

Speaker 5  1:09:55
Oh, yeah, yeah. And in fact, we have a lot of people that do exactly that, just because the one thing I probably didn't mention is that CoQ 10 is very important for the electron transport chain. Mitochondria does not substitute for that. So it 's not actually helping transfer electrons the same way CoQ 10 does. So it probably does help to take a little bit of CoQ 10 with Mitoquinol, though, once again, we've never actually done a study confining them together.

Speaker 1  1:10:23
Okay, we got, I think, let me cite a protocol there. I think this is done by Dr Mark Houston, the integrative cardiologist. So he always suggests that when you take cardiac mitochondrial cardiomyoq, you always need to have a regular CoQ 10, for the same reason that Siobhan mentioned that it doesn't work the same. So that's why, when you prescribe mitochondria to your patients, you make sure, especially with these organ specific mitochondrially, you always need to add your extra CoQ, CoQ 10 or Ubiquinol, ubiquinone.

Speaker 5  1:10:58
Yeah, yeah. And I would say just in addition to that, CoQ 10 has roles, obviously, in other places in the cell, like lysosome 's and, yeah, Mitoquinol 's is not engineered to go into those 's really just mitochondria. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:15
Are you familiar with Steven Sinatra 's protocol for you know, post cardiac events. He was one of my first anti anti aging teachers, and he uses, let me think, Coenzyme Q 10 with PQQ, magnesium acetyl l carnitine and and D ribose. Now, he passed away about at least five years ago. So this, this was probably formulated in the early 2000 's. Any usefulness we, you know, adding, or substituting, you know what you're talking about, to that that, because I've used that a lot.

Speaker 5  1:12:08
Yeah, I mean, it does make a lot of sense to me in terms of that formula you just mentioned, and then also bringing my OQ into the NEX. I think, as I said before, if you look at any other supplement out there, they're not getting into the mitochondrially the same level that MitoQ is. So if you really want to have that oxidative stress protection, it's really important to try something like MitoQ to get the most robust effect we do have. We do have a lot of people coming to us hoping to use it for something like post ischemia type of treatment, but we have not had any luck having that go on. Interestingly enough, we do have our first gate 's Foundation funded study that just started this month for pre eclampsia, and I thought that was kind of interesting, because there's not a lot of things obviously that work for pre eclampsia, but they think that MitoQ might be the thing that will do it.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:11
So with all the improvements and all these sort of diverse entities that you that you've been looking at, you know, the the the concept of longevity has sort of taken hold in our world. Have you looked at slowing, you know, you know, decreasing, senescence and cells that, you know, some things along those lines.

Speaker 5  1:13:34
Oh, yeah, yeah. So we've never really looked at that in humans. I think that's a little tricky, but we have many, many preclinical studies showing that it decreases senescence, that, you know, it's 's great for, you know, improving Telomere attrition. And it's just one of these things where, if you had me talk about all the 12 different hallmarks of aging, I would probably have a study of MitoQ having an effect on that. So the pre clinical studies, like, there's just so many of them showing 's of benefits in exactly those kind of longevity pathways that we know are important, like 'npk activation, like NRF two activation, like mTOR. So you know, it's really, I think, kind of exciting to see all that preclinical data about having it hit all those, those longevity pathways. I guess it's just as you know that that issue of like, you can mention this stuff, but you know, how do you get the right human data to really give people that sense? You know, this really is something to delay your aging. And so if anyone has any ideas, come talk to me and we can, we can do an MCRP program and hook you up with some free MitoQ.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:51
Find you can find a movie star or a football player,

Speaker 5  1:15:00
yeah, or Kim Kardashian seems to be willing to put anything into our body at this point. So yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:06
Dr Nario, do you have any online questions?

Speaker 1  1:15:10
Yeah, so, good stuff. Dr Siobhan, just to kind of piggyback on your urolithination, just to orient our viewers here that it's a natural metabolite produced by your gut bacteria. It's actually from polyphenol rich food. 's like pomegranates, walnuts and berries. And you're right. It is actually famous for Mito phosphocreatine, meaning recycling damaged mitochondria. And again, this is also one of the kind of leading supplements in relation to Anti Aging and Longevity. So but yeah, I think that was something definitely worth looking into in the future in relation to how can it, I guess, interact with MitoQ in terms of the benefits, but you probably need some merge study with the other company in relation to that. So, so here's the one question that is interesting. So there is, I don't know if you're aware of this that there is now a prod, a project from Canada, specifically, it's called Mito revolution. It's actually mitochondrially transplantation to advanced technology that they're trying to do. And this is trying to transplant healthy mitochondrially into damaged cells to restore function and promote regeneration. And I can see where this is the studies, or this project is leading to training for chronic, inflammasome organ failure, right? Mitochondrial disorders in this aspect. Can How does MitoQ, in relation to this, be integrated in such advancement in mitochondrial health?

Speaker 5  1:16:41
Yeah, well, we've actually been approached by several East mitochondrially transplantation companies to use mitochondria to preserve the mitochondria during the transplant, not only in the matrix, but then also after the transplant. So to kind of like, keep the mitochondrially healthy, as you know, the transplantation has already happened, and just kind of smooth the way, if you will. So I think that would be the main way that I would imagine MitoQ could be used. So we're kind of, yeah, you can talk about this a lot, but we are talking to some of those companies about using MitoQ to help enhance their overall outcomes.

Speaker 1  1:17:20
Yeah, that's just mind blowing. I just can't fathom the fact that you can actually get mitochondria and trans transplanted into somebody else. So I thought it was only organs, but now we're going into the microscopic level of a cell. So yeah, I mean, if that's something, definitely can keep us posted. Our audience will definitely appreciate that.

Speaker 5  1:17:45
Yeah, for sure. No, I actually am also impressed by that too. I mean, it seems so tricky. I'm amazed that they're having good results, at least the ones that they've talked about so far. Right?

Speaker 1  1:17:57
So there, there is a question about the product. So you have different mitochondria for I heart, right? Different specialty ones. How do you make How do you specialize these specific products to just go to the eyes, so just to go to the heart. I know there is a special carrier that you just mentioned, the positive charge carrier tag. Is this also the same technology that you're applying to these specific products?

Speaker 5  1:18:26
Yeah, so the only molecule that gets that special carrier is the Mitoquinol molecule. But what we did have people basically suggest to us over the years is that, yeah, they would like something a little bit more holistic for something like eye health. So we were never going to say, like, MitoQ will do everything for your eye, you know, it's, 's the thing. It's more like, okay, for Mito Qi, like, what if we pair mitochondrially With lutein, and then we look at how, you know, lutein, which is good at helping with the blue light kind of damage, and, you know, blue light filtration, like how that could improve things like eye strain, along with MitoQ, and along with, you know, vitamin E, and billberg and all the rest. So we kind of put these formulations together, looking at what is the best data for each ingredient, very similar to what we just heard from, from Bill about, you know, the Sinatra protocol, just like, let's put these different things together, like PQQ, like the CoQ 10, and know that they're going to have, you know, kind of a multimodal effect. So that's the same thing we're doing, the

Unknown Speaker  1:19:35
supplements that you mix with it.

Speaker 5  1:19:39
Oh, like, the kind of matrix of it is that what you're asking,

Speaker 1  1:19:43
I don't know you, you mix this specific supplement for the 's lutein, as you mentioned, right? Yeah, what makes the that? What makes up the name? Basically, because the the compound, the integrative supplements that goes along with the Mitoquinone,

Speaker 5  1:20:02
not sure. I'm I'm like, understanding your questions you're asking, What? What are the different supplements in Mito Qi, or where?

Speaker 1  1:20:09
Yeah, so I think that's what, the what, that what? That's what's making it special meaning, it's still the MitoQ mitochondrially, but you're adding for eyes, like gluten, Sam, yeah, right. Sam, pen, then for the for heart, you're adding dribilist, for example, is that, is that? What you mean that?

Speaker 5  1:20:27
Yeah, exactly. So. So mitochondria heart is, you know, just things like magnesium and vitamin D, and you know, things that we know are also helpful for the heart, but you know, are not going to be replaced by MitoQ, right? So Mito Q 's not going to act like magnesium, but we know that it is important so, so that's why we kind of put that together. We do have some products out there, like, for instance, MitoQ, curcumin. We do have synergistic data, like so, data showing that, for instance, if you combine mitochondria and curcumin, you will have overall better brain health in terms of, you know, pre clinical models, where you'll have more ATP production, and, you know, more synapses and things like that. So, but, you know, some of these were just kind of just taking the data that we have these ingredients and just putting them together based on that, gotcha.

Speaker 1  1:21:19
Gotcha. So another question is, is, is more better, from the sound of it, not really, because you mentioned that you can start with higher doses and just downgrade yourself to to a maintenance dose. Is that correct?

Speaker 5  1:21:35
Yeah, yeah. That's, I think, what I would prefer people to do, because I know it is expensive, but I also know for everyone, it's individual in terms of how much effect they're going to go get from it. So sometimes you might have to go a little higher at first to start seeing the effect, and then at that point, you know, can you titrate down a little bit to kind of have that maintenance of, you know, the better energy, or the, you know, improved hypertension, or less inflammasome.

Speaker 1  1:22:02
So how would you know what? What is the point wherein you're doing the high doses on a patient, and then now, I think it's time for the regular dosing. What are the parameters for you to choose from? I mean, to choose that direction now,

Speaker 5  1:22:17
yeah, I mean, it's, it's obviously different for different things. So we have a lot of people that use MitoQ for statin pain, right? So in that case, I think it's just literally like resolution of the muscle pain or fatigue is the main thing that HCPs are looking for. But you know, we also have Anne shippy, who 's a sort of fertility specialist who's just literally looking at things like pregnancy rate or hormone sort of levels after using mitochondrially sign that it's at the right level for, you know, doing the kind of fertility treatment.

Speaker 1  1:22:58
So I guess this comes into the picture that now it's becomes an individual 's care when you think the patient is in more in a more stable state, that 's when you kind of down Grat and of course, saving the budget, the financial budget, also when you mentioned about the expense, because I have these patients who I started on, on Pro I just trying to figure out, like, When should I start now, maintain them on the regular. So sounds, the sound of it really, this is more clinical. Is that correct? Yeah. Okay. And also, are they asking, Can you overdose of this?

Speaker 5  1:23:39
I don't think so, because I do know that, um, when you get up to, like, the highest dose that people have taken, really is 160 milligrams, and they took that for about six months, that there were really no issues. But if you, if you accidentally take more than that, you will probably have gi effects, so to the point where you will not want to take anymore, right?

Speaker 1  1:24:05
So, yeah, yeah. So it's more gi I just thought they're gonna have to be doing cartwheels like crazy when you have too much mitochondrially energy.

Speaker 5  1:24:16
So I don't think we've heard of people having too much mitochondrially energy. So yeah, right. I think it's Yeah, it doesn't quite work that way.

Speaker 1  1:24:26
Okay, this is a famous question for supplements and for absorption questions, I guess, food without food.

Speaker 5  1:24:35
Oh, who shouldn't take that food or without food? Oh, with without food, definitely. Oh, gosh, yeah, this is so important. So the bioavailability of MitoQ goes down significantly if it's taken with food. So we always recommend that people take it a half hour before a meal.

Speaker 1  1:24:54
Oh, interesting. Okay, because I don't know if that's the same concept for ubiquin Ubiquinol. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:08
there's a question about your contact information. Dr, Mitchell,

Speaker 5  1:25:14
Oh, yeah. Um so I can be reached by 's Mitchell at Mito q.com,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:22
okay, the same place I get you then, right, yep.

Speaker 5  1:25:30
Or you can go to the MCRP website, and you can also just type in MCRP at Mito coo com and reach us through email there, or there's a contact page on MCRP that goes directly to me. So any queries about, yeah, mitochondria research can go there as well.

Speaker 1  1:25:52
We have a request from Kent, can you show the first reference slide again? Which one can you show the first reference slide

Unknown Speaker  1:26:02
again according to 's 's references,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:05
there you go. Continue.

Speaker 1  1:26:13
And that 's all my questions. So great presentation. Dr, mitochondria, cool.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:18
Thank you. Thank you so much we're still we're still waiting on our CME provider to see if they're back. So hopefully we'll be able to catch up on on the last few that we've sort of missed. Anybody else have any any other questions for Dr Mitchell here? So, okay, great information, as always, and oh, there was a question about any effects on Telomere length, increased output of ATP and any effect on autophagy,

Speaker 5  1:26:57
yeah, so has been shown pre clinically to increase Telomere length. So in mice, and also also in skin, which I thought was interesting, seems to have some benefits for skin autophagy, not as much as mitochondrially. So it does have mitochondrially effects. I don't think I've seen as much autophagy, except for those, those examples of the clonal hematopoiesis, what was the last part

Bill Clearfield  1:27:27
of that increased ATP output?

Speaker 5  1:27:33
So we've seen increased ATP output, mostly in issues that are, you know, kind of, I would say, having an effect on ATP production overall. So it's not going to boost your ATP up in a normal, healthy organism, like, let's make that clear. But you know, an Alzheimer's mouse model or model of heart disease or diabetes, for instance, in humans, humans that have chronic heart failure, we see the ATP production goes up in their blood cells, their white blood cells. So it's more like ATP production will go up if you're already a little bit compromised. Okay, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:20
Dr ntoli says, I take MMS and it gives me a lot of energy. I don't, don't know what that is, like ozone. She says, I don't know what MMS is.

Speaker 1  1:28:29
So, so, oh, so, dr, mitochondrially, you mentioned about NMN. H is that a new supplement? I haven't heard of that.

Speaker 5  1:28:40
Yeah, that's coming into the market now. And I, I just find it hilarious that there's so much of this NAD precursor hype of just like, let's get as much NAD in your plasma, that should be enough proof for you. And I, I hope that today was clear that it's not enough proof. I mean, every single clinical trial and NMN nr, or this new one, this NMN H improve NAD levels, but then I'm not seeing as much clinical data to make it think that that's doing a lot of benefits.

Speaker 1  1:29:12
Yeah, Dr Sinclair kind of jump started that whole research about nr and the benefit. I think that's just the how it 's snowballed now into all of these NAD supplements, and that 's why they 're, like, costing crazy money, especially for patients. And L 's, you kind of put it out there that the medical literature really is not backing it up much. So that 's really you're breaking heart's here. So I 's sure there 's a lot of patients kind of like, wow, really, your jaws are dropping.

Speaker 5  1:29:45
Yeah, and I feel bad because I wish it was as effective. 's, you know, oops. All right,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:56
okay, all right. Any other questions from on your end. Dr Natto,

Speaker 1  1:30:01
no, that's it. You got it all out of the ballpark, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:30:06
Well, thank you so much. Dr Mitchell, for being with us. Anybody have any questions, comments? You have any events coming up next week, we 's a little bit up in the air at the moment, so, dr, clonal, sir, and I have a really good case history. I think we're going to present if our speaker that we're trying to get doesn't come through, I think you'll find it very interesting, and it covers pretty much the gamut of everything, most everything that we do, all wrapped up in one person. So we'll we, at some point, we're going to do this case history, where we're going to present, we'll present it to you, and let's maybe we can have a discussion on, you know, some different ideas about the how to, how to go about handling this. There's a lot of there's some autoimmity in there, there's some infertility in there. There's some polycystic ovaries in there, a couple of genetic issues also. So all wrapped up into 111, unfortunate person.

Speaker 5  1:31:21
So, so sorry. I'm back. I apologize. My internet just went out, so I'm just using my phone. But, um, anyway, I'll just say goodbye to everyone, because I think we're wrapping

Bill Clearfield  1:31:31
Thank you. Thank you so much. Video and I'll send you the participant list when we're done here. Okay, listen, all right, thank you. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you. Yeah, all right, okay, any, any final words, Dr 'normal'

Speaker 1  1:31:48
So a little plug shame. 's plug March, we're gonna be having our women 's hormones, a program that 's online. So visit our website and you can check it out for three weeks. We're gonna have the whole program.

Speaker 7  1:32:02
You will have the whole program with a for M on Monday, it's

Speaker 1  1:32:06
going to be an online course for women 's hormones. It's more for advance. And you're

Bill Clearfield  1:32:12
going to get a you're going to be able to get us a discount, aren't you? I want to Sure.

Speaker 1  1:32:16
Wink, wink, wink, we'll try.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:20
You're gonna, you're gonna be able to get us a discount, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:25
Definitely, we're in trouble. One of the two

Speaker 1  1:32:30
that's a given. Do you want to share a link for that? Yeah, I'll say, I'll send one out. I just have to find it. I'm always in the in the not in the loop when faculty matters. That's why I get in trouble for that.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:47
And I know in in April, live online, Carol Peterson is is part of it. So Lindsey Bergson is holding a Breast Cancer Symposium, a three day symposium, and David Brownstein will be there, and Carol Peterson will be there, and a whole bunch of I had it up here just a second ago, and it's a whole bunch of other famous people will be there too. So your interest, you're pretty specific. I had it all ready to go and

Speaker 1  1:33:32
it talk amongst yourself for a second. I know them guys for the Philippine group. I'll be speaking for the Medical City conference. I think that's on June or July, so I'll probably be doing that online. So just, I don't know if you guys know about it, from the Philippine 's, but I'm going to be speaking there. Hopefully you guys attend a live it's, it's a pretty good conference. I saw the lineup. So Philippine doctors hopefully support our integrative community.

Speaker 3  1:34:02
Hey, Dr Natto, have you gone to the VA over in the Philippine 's by any chance? Or No? VA there? Yeah, that's what I hear.

Speaker 1  1:34:13
Oh, no, I haven't that would be interesting.

Speaker 3  1:34:17
Yeah, when it's up, I'll have to go with you on one of the trips. There is, let's go there.

Speaker 7  1:34:25
It's a functional medicine conference in February, at the end of February. Doctor Andrew, it's a speaker there. I saw,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:33
really, wow. Doctor Andrew, and he

Speaker 7  1:34:37
didn't call me. And Doctor Robbins, I saw him there on the list of speakers.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:45
First he stands 's up on Sunday night for dinner, and now he's having a conference without us. I'm starting to get I'm starting to get a little paranoid here.

Speaker 1  1:34:54
Maybe he needs to drive early. Remember, he's the one driving cross country because he

Bill Clearfield  1:34:59
was COVID. It was 's 30. It was plenty early. You probably started driving, you know, Dr klats, has to go be in bed by 's so so does Dr Dayton, sirtuin,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:12
I try. Suh, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:15
Alright, everybody, we'll get the videos ready for you, and we will be here next week, same time, same station. If Doctor Nario can't find that speaker for us, we're going to do a case history that I think you're going to find pretty interesting. And with that, we're going to say over and out, thank you all

Unknown Speaker  1:35:39
night. Night everybody. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:43
It's an honor. 's always we'll talk to you again soon.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:46
Great job. Everybody, bye bye, bye, bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai