Bill Clearfield  01:26
I was the I was the Filipino alternative medicine conference. How did that turn out? I was able to stream the first night and Dr. Marissa was on at 130 in the morning so I got your co host Joe

Unknown Speaker  01:53
Okay, sounds good. Okay. How the day go?

Bill Clearfield  01:59
Oh slow did a started out. I think we had a craziness. I didn't have anybody on my schedule till 10. Somebody showed up at nine. And somebody showed up at the 10 o'clock, canceled. The 10 o'clock for tomorrow showed up I just just went from there. Me you have those days. Stalker winds getting redder and redder as the site summer moves along here.

Unknown Speaker  02:34
He sir is

Speaker 1  02:35
Yeah, I just got out of the water too. Boy. It was tough you know, but this call I gotta be on a

Bill Clearfield  02:41
you gotta be on the you know, we're, we're right on top of things here. Every once in a while, we have to have Dr. Velocita. sort of break it. Break it, break it break everything up. But

Speaker 1  02:55
hey, so bill I like those glasses. Like

Bill Clearfield  02:59
these. These are. These were these were my my front office persons. I traded with her because I couldn't like them myself. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  03:11
That's funny.

Bill Clearfield  03:13
This is something that you would you or John would

Speaker 1  03:17
wear? Oh, for sure. Without without a doubt.

Bill Clearfield  03:21
So yeah, I kinda like these. These are these are pretty sporty.

Speaker 1  03:25
So you have the same vision as the person in your front office. Oh, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  03:33
Well, the first time i Doctor new set Slovis the first time I realized I needed them. I was actually in the operating room. Oh god. Yeah, it was used to assist a urologist. And then he was moving my hand over here. No, it's over here.

Speaker 1  03:53
Oh, don't tell the patient I

Bill Clearfield  03:57
wanted them gave me their glasses. Oh, that's a lot better. And then I was gonna go get the LASIK done. But yeah, one of the one of the big surgeons in our town had it done and this guy was unbelievable. He he do a gallbladder in less than 10 minutes. Oh my god, start to finish the guy was he was incredible. He went and had the LASIK done and he had to retire. He ended up becoming he went to optometry school because he couldn't see well enough to realize that these are good enough. These are five bucks No kidding. No, Max. These

Speaker 1  04:35
glasses I always tell people I only wear glasses because cuz I want it to make me look

Bill Clearfield  04:40
makes me so he's gonna say this. It doesn't just make me look smart.

Speaker 1  04:44
It makes you look smart and hit. Yeah. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:47
well, you know I have to keep up with the John Burgess.

Unknown Speaker  04:52
Oh, that's almost impossible in it.

Bill Clearfield  04:53
I say I say Stefan, but he's too young to needless. No,

Unknown Speaker  04:58
he doesn't know.

Bill Clearfield  05:03
Right, somebody sticks up. They'll stick the stick the phone in front of me and say I'm here read that and I can't read that. I'm too old for that.

Speaker 1  05:12
Exactly. Exactly. Stefan Thank you. Thank

Unknown Speaker  05:20
you get a haircut. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  05:22
You think How about oxytocin? And and progesterone? eyedrops the for the fix the fix the

Speaker 2  05:31
fix the eye sight. So there's, you read the

Bill Clearfield  05:37
methylene blue to go with it.

Unknown Speaker  05:41
Thank you Dr. alasa. Yeah, so

Speaker 2  05:43
there's a protocol by Dr. Pierre cukier, who tried to regenerate eyesight. I tried to get him here give you a lecture sometime. He's written a whole book but it's like carnosine eyedrops.

Bill Clearfield  05:55
There's there is some prescription I think that Dr. Gordon had him and that he has asked for like 24 hours. There's a prescription that seems that suppose to help have

Unknown Speaker  06:05
some sort of prescription.

Bill Clearfield  06:07
I think it's I think that's in it. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  06:11
You're talking to you.

Unknown Speaker  06:13
Yeah, l carnosine. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  06:15
Okay.

Speaker 1  06:16
No peptides it'll do anything. Well,

Speaker 2  06:19
yeah. So when we used to get peptides you could get famous and beta four and BPC 157. Ocular eyedrops and pure RX pharmacy would compound those. But they stopped doing that.

Unknown Speaker  06:31
What's that one of those three letter organizations probably said you can't.

Speaker 2  06:38
I was thinking. So I have this patient and she went to optometry school. For the reason I'm trying to figure out why her whole family was getting early nearsightedness and macular degeneration. She's never learned it. But she came to me and we did a nutrient panel from Veyron plus the gin the B genetic testing alongside it, and we found out that she was superb ly low in vitamin a and beta carotene both in the serum and white blood cell and that she had double mutations for for assimilation of this so despite taking vitamin A and eating Vitamin E foods, she was still low. In it and her eyesight was going the wrong way. So we're trying to load her with vitamin a and beta carotene to see if we can reverse this or prevent it from happening. Well,

Bill Clearfield  07:22
yeah, how

Unknown Speaker  07:24
are you doing it?

Speaker 2  07:26
Claire Labs has a liquid vitamin a dropper. It tastes like care. It's really good. You can put it in your water and you can get you know 30,000 units a day of vitamin A pretty readily that way.

Unknown Speaker  07:38
That'd be great work.

Speaker 1  07:40
You know, you mentioned some stuff on that. I'm glad you mentioned this is just like last week on the Dr. Claire fields, patient and all of that kind of stuff we were going over. And I don't know we used to always do genetic testing to some degree that Genova detoxify genomics, if nothing else, just to look for snips and things like that, and I don't hear anybody ever saying that they're testing the genetics when we're trying to treat these patients

Unknown Speaker  08:09
that Canario

Speaker 2  08:12
they had the funds for it. I like to look at the all the nutrients along with the genetics at the same time and they makes a clear picture of why they're low and things.

Speaker 1  08:21
I'm just what you said about Dr. Nereo. Dr. Scenario, he's

Bill Clearfield  08:25
the genetic kind of guy I think, right?

Speaker 3  08:29
Well, kinda, but not we're not at that level yet. So So I had the chance to see all the our Filipino friends here. So got a chance to be I actually saw a patient yesterday with Dr. Mildura. And I guess I'm glad to put faces now on the names and was a fun experience. And yeah, we're looking forward to more projects in the future here for us. We're just talking about the whole the whole thing into like future projects and activities. And event was a pretty great success. It was even the exhibit hall was even bigger than a forum. That's what I saw. Wow. So yeah, it's a jam packed event here from all over the country. Wow,

Unknown Speaker  09:18
that's awesome.

Unknown Speaker  09:20
So are you back?

Speaker 3  09:22
No, not yet. I'm still here. I'm seeing patients I'm actually about to see in a few minutes. So just hang tight with you guys here.

Unknown Speaker  09:32
Okay. All right. Yeah,

Speaker 3  09:34
the thing is, I saw people yesterday. You'd be surprised. They still have the same problems like what we have there in the US. So it's just a different race, but same old problems came

Bill Clearfield  09:46
more of a surprise was more of a disappointment. We hoped they would be better than

Speaker 3  09:53
unfortunately not there. Yeah, the Western dive is you're just gonna

Bill Clearfield  09:56
go all the way to the Philippines and have to deal with the same old same same thing.

Unknown Speaker  10:02
Where exactly are you at? Dr. Nereo? Manila,

Speaker 3  10:05
in Manila. Okay. Well, the heart of the city. Amen.

Bill Clearfield  10:11
All right. A little rundown on your conference before we get started like our speakers here. So where maybe afterwards after we're done, it's because it's

Speaker 3  10:25
doing now because I'll probably cut off. So basically the conference was really I saw the current innovations of anti aging, I guess intervention here in the EU and the Philippines. And they have almost the same stuff that we have peptides. Well, the good thing about them is peptides are very open. It's not like they're that they closed everything down to whatever we had before there. It's all available here. And also homeopathic medicines, which were banned now. There now they still have it over here. And they're working on stem cells here also, but they're going to Singapore for that and other country. like Japan, nearby, I guess countries. But again, yeah, it was a good conference. And there's things that definitely we can share to them and them to us, but majority of it really is. I was speaking for the whole three days and it was a great crowd and appreciate everybody who was there. The Filipinos are really hospitable. And they actually treat every speaker the right way. So props for them.

Bill Clearfield  11:30
Pretty good. Okay, we'll have to make a pilgrimage from there. Maybe next year.

Unknown Speaker  11:36
Definitely.

Unknown Speaker  11:37
Right.

Unknown Speaker  11:38
Let's go.

Speaker 2  11:39
I think it'd be better better trip than a friend. Vegas again. Let's go to Philippines is something different.

Unknown Speaker  11:43
So I'm gonna bring you guys over here.

Bill Clearfield  11:48
That doesn't work and always take you to Scranton, Pennsylvania.

Unknown Speaker  11:53
Oh man.

Speaker 1  11:57
Yeah, so if you guys do stem cells and all that stuff in the Philippines and get all this stuff going, that can't be done here. The Philippines could end up being a medical treatment destination place people.

Speaker 3  12:09
Well, you know what, they're pretty big on fat stem cells here and as always, we always talked about this and even Dr. Abortions webinars that we like the younger stem cells, but again, as according to FDA, like us who there it's only the fact that they kind of approve so they're doing everything under wraps here when you're doing off the grid stem cell therapy. So but they know about it, it's just that FDA is after them if they go out of the box as well. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  12:37
is the FDA got power over them?

Speaker 3  12:41
As they said majority of the presentations were fat derived stem cells and after the presentations, I spoke to the speakers and spoke to them about embryonic of course bilkul they're saying yeah, we know about that, but we can't advertise for it. They're gonna be running after us if we do.

Speaker 4  13:02
Did you actually say does the FDA have power over them?

Unknown Speaker  13:09
Who doesn't? Right? Right.

Speaker 1  13:13
I just don't know how long their reach is. It's very long as

Unknown Speaker  13:17
the FDA Philippines not the FDA.

Bill Clearfield  13:21
You know us you know, you look our friend Jay Campbell us use him as an example you know, we will make a mistake you know, he doesn't have to answer. They're talking for a while and you know, doesn't care. Nobody's gonna nobody should shut him down.

Unknown Speaker  13:38
The victor.

Bill Clearfield  13:40
So, okay. All right. Thank you. Thanks, Dr. Nereo. And thanks. Thank everybody from the Philippines that's here. We really appreciate you being with us. Tonight. We have Dr. John Newstead again, John is been with us a couple of times, and he's always got something really interesting and very intricate that he's working on. John's a pretty remarkable guy if I put his little bit of his bio in and on the email this week, and if you read if you read his story, it's really pretty remarkable. You know, again, he was, you know, on the forefront of you know, all sorts of innovative projects and he runs a nutritional, what's it called John, nutritional, biochemistry

Speaker 5  14:31
Inc, or NBI, which if I may just put an aside out there because they're folks from the Philippines here. I had no idea when I named my company or abbreviated MBI. But every once in a while, I get the company gets emails from the Philippines, because NBI is the National Bureau of Investigations in the Philippines asking for what their identification number is or if they can resubmit their paperwork. So interesting connection there as a surprise to me, but

Bill Clearfield  15:03
Right. All right. Well, we knew you were up to no good job. All right. So we have an interesting topic tonight. John always brings us something good. I'm gonna just let you you know, reintroduce yourself, John and take it away.

Speaker 5  15:21
Thank you. It's great to be here. Again, I really appreciate the invitation because any opportunity for me to share on this topic is important because it is an underserved disease, osteoporosis. Is not tested for enough it's mistreated. Studies have shown and I'm sure everybody in this in this webinar understands with firsthand experience, either themselves or colleagues that that out there is confusing people don't know oftentimes how to interpret a DEXA scans, what the best first line therapies are, and how to talk to patients about it. And so, I was asked this last year by Paul Anderson if anybody you know his work, he's an amazing physician clinician to put together a presentation on cancer treatment induced osteoporosis, which I gave at his conference. And this is a modification of that. When Dr. Clearfield reach out to me for to present again. I first became interested in this topic of osteoporosis about you know, 20 years ago now when I was a baby doc in my private practice in Montana, and I had patients coming in to see me with osteoporosis, and I thought I was doing a good job because their bone density was going up and my mother in law's bone density who has osteoporosis was also going up on Fosamax and then she fractured. And I thought something was wrong with this and I discovered at the time that a bone density test only predicts 44% of women with osteoporosis who will break a bone and only 21% of men. And so that focus on just treating surrogate markers whether it's a bone turnover marker from the urine, or blood or treating a laboratory array radiological result, which is a DEXA scan, and focusing on moving that number on the test instead of the patient in front of us. Is is really doing a disservice people think they're protected and they're really not. In fact, the changes in a bone density test score that are caused by osteoporosis, the FDA approved osteoporosis medications, that changing in t score is not indicative that the drug is actually working to reduce their fracture risk. I don't go into that. But that's an important point that I will go back to over and over again in this talk. It's about fractures, bottom line, not about surrogate markers, and when it comes to cancer patients, it's also about overall survival. So let me share my screen here and if I'm allowed to, and go into this, so I'm not going to be going I'm not going to be talking. This is a generic presentation I was asked to put together that doesn't have any product names and then when I talk about nutrients they are in the just shot talking about the generic nutrients but there's my email up on the screen. Feel free to reach out to me I'm happy to provide this presentation to anybody who asked for it happy to email to you or if you want clinical consults or just to talk or learn more, I can provide more resources as well. These are my disclosures. So MBI nutritional biochemistry Incorporated. I did create based on those experiences 2007 My first products for bone health came out so offline, we can talk about that or I guess after this presentation is over here once they stop if there's if I have permission to discuss exactly what I've created, and the unique you know, guarantees on those because the dad I'd be happy to be on pharmaceuticals that's important because I've got multiple FDA orphan drugs I was muted Am I still muted?

Bill Clearfield  19:21
No, you're good.

Speaker 5  19:21
I'm alright. Okay. Was it something I said?

Unknown Speaker  19:26
That would be

Speaker 5  19:29
so I've got multiple orphan drug designations for rare products for the potential treatment of of rare diseases. Some of them are in the world of cancer. MK four, for example, specific form of vitamin K to multiple orphan drug designations for acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, hepatocellular carcinoma and acute promyelocytic leukemia. There the rest of my disclosure there. So the most important questions again, it's always about focusing on the patient. We should never lose sight of that. Who should get screened, how well does this whatever it's used to screen them? How well does it predict fractures? And can it also in this context, predict Mets treatments? Does it prevent or reduce skeletal related events and does it increase overall survival? Those are the most fundamental questions that I can think of. So the problem is that they're more I mean, it's it's a beautiful thing. There are more and more people surviving cancer, but it's a problem when it comes to the sequelae from that, including osteoporosis that ASCO called and their 2019 clinical practice guidelines. That coalescence of survivals and with cancer and osteoporosis is near epidemic proportions. So women with early stage breast cancer and men with non metastatic prostate cancer represent the largest groups of survivors about 40%. And you can see there on that second bullet in the US at least, more than more and more people are you 50 to 80 years old, which gets into that prime age anyway in the general population, for osteoporosis. So if somebody has breast cancer and they fracture and end up in the hospital, there's up to an 83% or there's a an 83% increase relative risk of dying, and data from over 100,000 122,000 cancer patients showed that fractures at all sites except the forearm were associated with increased mortality. So after the first year 242% And it goes down from there. But even up to 10 years, over 10 years after diagnosis hazard ratio of 1.93 increase mortality. So obviously, this is an important issue that should be on everybody's radar. I like summary tables. This summarizes the data it looks at different types of cancers different diagnoses, compares them in the first row to postmenopausal osteoporosis. And the general population of adults, US adults over 50 years old. About half of those have some bone loss osteopenia or osteoporosis. And you've got on the right side the fracture risk. So the incidence of women with breast cancer taking aromatase inhibitors of fractures is 20%. So one in five are going to fracture within five years with androgen deprivation therapy. In men with prostate cancer, you're looking at nearly that same amount as well. But even things that that, you know, for survivors that aren't typically thought of and not recommended, not screened for Postgres directed me for stomach cancer, over half of those are gonna get osteoporosis after 10 years. So you can look at these numbers. I think it just drives home that the the emphasis that this should be on everybody's radar. There's also it's not just the primary cancers like with multiple myeloma and the majority of patients have a skeletal related events and have bone loss at the time of diagnosis with multiple myeloma, but lots of medications that are used to directly affect the cancer like chemotherapeutic agents, cyclophosphamide, MI, an alkylating agents, but many other drugs as well commonly understood medications like glucocorticoids I think everybody's heard of those. But even still, though the data is strong, and it's getting more and more understood. proton pump inhibitors, the hypnotics that don't directly affect the bone density, but they increase fall risk 95% of fractures occur because somebody falls save most antihypertensives as people get older, they're not metabolizing the drugs as well as when they were younger, it could if it could increase their risk for getting too high, a dose of antihypertensives drops or blood pressure increases their risk for falling. I'm going to stop or get more in detail of a few of these medications a little bit later. And here's that little bit later, a little faster than I thought. So glucocorticoids 30 to 50% of patients. Chronic glucocorticoid therapy are going to fracture most frequently. In the in the vertebral spine and the femoral neck as a little bit of a side and aside in the general population. The median age of a vertebral fracture is in the 70s. The median age of a hip fracture is 82 years old, but also short term glucocorticoid reuse we now know is also causes bone loss and increases fracture risk. Now it's understood that the the bone repairs if somebody stops prednisone or dexamethasone, any of those glucocorticoids and the bone can get stronger but we don't know if it actually ever returns to the baseline strength. Importantly, the increase for fracture risk with glucocorticoids is there even before the changes in bone density appears in a bone density test. So make sure it's important to understand that because if somebody gets a bone density test and they're on prednisone and their bone density looks fine, it doesn't mean that their their fracture risk has has stayed the same. It is our it is increased just by being on glucocorticoids because it's multiple mechanism. It just doesn't affect the bone density. It destroys collagen it destroys muscle fibers which increases the risk for falling and bone really is collagen tissue. It's it's rich and collagen type one collagen it's what gives the the ultimate strength and bone quality to to the tissue. You know strand for strand collagen, the tensile strength is stronger than steel. It's also quite flexible. So when people have healthy amounts of collagen, they can fall. The bone deforms a little bit and doesn't break it's able to absorb that impact of our larger volume of bone without the without the collagen as collagen gets destroyed with like glucocorticoids and can happen to happen as people get older. And in other situations, bone becomes brittle. So that's SSRIs is another category. What we now know is women taking an SSRI medication for up to one to five years. We expect for every 19 of them one will break a bone and 21% of adult cancer survivors are taking SSRIs acid blockers. It's similar very similar to most medications. The higher the dose, the longer the duration, the greater the risk. So up to 30% of cancer patients are using acid blockers even after the first year I'm putting in the in this slide I talked about basically the the maximum known fracture risk with the longer durations. But even prior to one year you see an increased risk and fractures with all of these medications. So just be aware of that. The absolute odds ratio for fracture with an acid blocking medication after four years is about 1.59 or 59% increase of absolute risk. aromatase inhibitors I discussed that already. 80% of breast cancer patients experience aromatase inhibitor Brett bone loss, Lorazepam. 40% of cancer survivors have insomnia or any of those hypnotics. And that's compared to about 10 to 15% of the general population. And that's associated with 33% increase in fracture risk. androgen deprivation therapy is interesting because the bone loss is detected as early as three months and then a significant at six months. And what you see is an increase in hip fracture of relative risk of 30% higher with you know, osteoporosis or incidence is increasing the longer somebody is on it, but it does does it part of the problem part of the issue with hip fractures and similar with glucocorticoids is that when you deprive as you know, the body of androgens, you also get muscle wasting, and I asked you sarcopenia is deadly, especially in men, it increases the risk for dying in men with osteosarcoma. sarcopenia, even more so than with women.

Speaker 5  28:21
Physical exam thinning skin women with thinning skin have a higher incidence of bone loss. Not surprising there's a lot of collagen in skin, same type of collagen type one collagen, and so what's going on on the outside is also happening on the inside. So be aware of that offending more friable skin, while occiput distance if they're getting a bit of a humpback, you know they can't touch the occiput against the wall when they're standing with their heels against the wall that could indicate some bone loss. Less than 112 pounds. Loss of height, losing teeth self reported harm back when I was you know when I see patients the clinical exam happens the moment they see them even walking with them to the exam room, because the highest one of the most consistent predictors of fracture risk is an increased risk of falling and that is due to instability in stable gait. So watch your patients and see how they walk. If they have an unstable gait. Look at their shoes. See if they protonate if they've got a wear on their shoe that's abnormal that favors one side of the foot or the or the other. Because that instability is is one of the most consistent predictors of fractures because it's a predictor of falls. Also see how they stand up. Can they stand up from a seated position unassisted or with ease? That's important, as well. So the American Society of Clinical Oncology guidelines, all patients with non metastatic cancer and one or more risk factors should be screened with a central DEXA which is really going to be probably almost any everybody you're seeing. So we're going to look at the actual screening rates here in a moment see how well that's being followed. And one of the biggest risk factors as I mentioned is falls but also advancing age getting older as a greater predictor for fractures than even a bone density test results. Alright, so screening guidelines international Osteoporosis Foundation working group should be people recommends that patients should be screened prior to stem cell transplant and then after after the transplant, if done last is not predictable, but they want people to get retested within three months. If no pharmacotherapy is given, and then periodic texting shouldn't be done thereafter. I don't really agree with that recommendation regarding the pharmacotherapy, the drugs I think people should be tested anyway. With aromatase inhibitors baseline and then every one to two years. And tamoxifen bone loss with tamoxifen is really just a risk with pre menopausal women. Not postmenopausal tamoxifen use and then with ADT, the guidelines are that all patients should be screened for osteoporosis with a DEXA but they don't really provide the the interval for that. So what are the screening rates in the general population? It's abysmal for eligible women or eligible women, you're looking at only 30%. So 70% are not being screened, who are eligible for it and about 96% of eligible men are not being tested when you look at Medicare which is 65 and older. So that's in that prime age group for osteoporosis. And 94.5% are not getting screened for osteoporosis which is a real shame and a real problem for our healthcare system and for patients. With cancer patients screening rates are almost non existent that data so we're not really sure on unsurprisingly, it was some of the cancers where the data are available. screening rates are quite low, even in drugs even in situations like with aromatase inhibitor of bone loss, where we know that it destroys bone, it's commonly understood. Even those screening rates are low about you know, 34.5% of cancer patients were screened with the baseline and follow up. So even if they're screened initially they're not getting the recommended follow up screening. And for ADT, you're talking about you know, 92% of men are not being tested with a baseline. And it's even worse for non Hispanic black patients. They had the lowest Texas green lights about frack so you can use a fracks assessment tool out there. If you want but just please understand that it has not been validated, does not take into account medications like aromatase inhibitors ADT, or stem cell transplant, it's quite limited in terms of the inputs it will accept. If you're understand if you don't fracks is it's a normal free online tour tool tool that will give a 10 year probability of A major osteoporotic fracture and it's not applicable to patients younger than 40 and it's has not been validated in cancer patients or patients with stem cell transplant. I talked about this before at the very beginning. DEXA does not predict fractures very well. I think it's important still to get them for a couple of reasons. One, it's one piece of a much larger puzzle, but patients come to me and they're they're scared and rightly so. Having osteoporosis and the diagnosis of osteoporosis is a scary disease. A lot of times people know people or have a grandparent or an aunt or a parent who had osteoporosis broke her hip and ended up dying and is oftentimes the the the event that starts this downward spiral towards death even if you're a woman 65 years or older, and fracture a hip, there's up to a 36% chance that you're going to be dead within a year. And that's in the general population or postmenopausal osteoporosis. The there's a range of mortality statistics out there, most often cited as 20% but it's all the way up to 36% is what's been determined. And even those who survive that year, about half of them never regain their pre fracture level of pain free lifetime light of pain, free life and enjoyment that they used to have and a significant percentage of those patients don't recover fully their activities of daily living and need ongoing care. So the bone density test for me is important because it's still the gold standard by which this is diagnosed. And it is what's used oftentimes to justify insurance reimbursements for patients and it is also a conversation starter. But what I do when patients come to me is I first start by calming them down to put the bone density test in its proper perspective. telling them exactly what I said before that it only protects 44% of women with osteoporosis who will break a bone and only 21% of men. So it's a much larger picture. And it's just one piece of the puzzle. We'll talk about the holistic approaches here. A little bit later. There's that 2014 Annals of Internal Medicine article that I mentioned earlier about the FDA approve osteoporosis medications. The change in bone mineral density that they create are not good predictors of their anti fracture effect. Alright, so what about lab testing? So neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio is as something that indicates inflammation, chronic inflammation pro inflammatory, or in Tori's pro inflammatory cytokines

Speaker 5  35:52
contribute to osteoporosis directly by affecting the osteoblasts and osteocytes class. activity. And that there was a study looking at women and Ellen NLR neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio above three is associated with osteopenia, and one of 4.68 was associated with osteoporosis and integrative oncologists are that I talked to, you know, test NLR and they liked that that measure as well. So this is just if you're running that any any any white blood cell is going to give you the count is going to give you those numbers anyway. So just a quick calculation can give you some indication if you want to refer them for a bone density test or to have the discussions with them about bone health. Bone turnover markers, been quite commonly used for many years there have been many that have seemed to come into vogue and then leave like osteocalcin used to be I think a lot more popular than it is now. But I would just say as a category of test testing option to be very cautious, just like the bone density test. You don't want to over interpret this. You don't want to over emphasize or put too much weight into the results. It can be an adjunct but their use is tempered and quite limited by a lot of pre analytical variables that complicate the interpretation. And then also what the research shows in terms of you know, how well are they do they correlate even with with fractures. So as a predictor of bone loss, that last bullet point there, you know, all associations are moderate and their use as individuals is quite limited is the current consensus. And there's a long list here the ones with the Asterix are the commonly are widely widely available one. Let me just mention osteocalcin here for a moment because that's an important one it as I said before, to put this into, I think clinical context writing and I've seen a lot of doctors run osteocalcin and it goes down the under carboxylated osteocalcin will decrease or that ratio will decrease and yes, it is associated with with fractures. But if you change that one laboratory variable, does it necessarily reduce their fracture risk? Well, the answer is no, not necessarily. And the example that I like to give is with osteocalcin is all forms of vitamin K vitamin K one, Vitamin K two as the two most commercially available forms in case for an MK seven, all of them will reduce under carboxylated osteocalcin. But when you look at the forms of vitamin K two out there and products and the clinical trials on them. MK seven has never been shown to improve bone density. So you can reduce under carboxylated osteocalcin. But if you tell your patient Oh your bones health is improving Well, it's not improving based on a bone density test because all the clinical trials with MK seven in all doses use either showed that it only slowed how fast they lost bone density or didn't have any effect at all on the rate of bone density and loss. It did not improve it and there are no outcome studies with MK seven showing that it reduces fractures at all. MK four instead. has been shown in over 25 clinical trials on it. It's been shown repeatedly over and over to stop and reverse bone loss and postmenopausal osteoporosis glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis osteoporosis caused by androgen deprivation therapy but more importantly, and at least in postmenopausal osteoporosis, there have been numerous clinical trials showing that it reduces fractures so I would just encourage everybody when you're looking at the data or looking at you know P one MP or running an alle ALP or or a CT x so ask the question, Has it been shown to reduce fractures. Also just be the second bullet there, the inter assay coefficient, you'll be very careful when you're running these that you're always trying to run them on the same machine from the same lab. Because test results can differ between labs up to five to six fold at least for two of the markers. CT X and NT X. And even the intra assay coefficient. A very variation has been high up to 26.6% for urinary and TX assays. There's no standardization internationally. There's a working group now that's working on that to harmonize a commercially available bone turnover marker tests. And there are only two that are actually recommended for research and monitoring therapy which is CT x and p one and P and in fact the main the main clinical use of this conventionally that's understood or widely understood is to monitor compliance with with therapy. Let's see stata research. I know I don't have hours and hours. I'm not going to go into all the details of every slide they're here for you and I'll happy to send these to you. But some patients have come to me and said oh my doctor said I'm a slow right now I'm losing bone fast because of my bone turnover markers but that'll change as I get finished with menopause. I was one patient or somebody else I'm a slow I'm losing bone slowly because my doctor told me because of my bone turnover markers. Well, that has a very poor predictive value when you actually look at the data with the increased bone turnover markers identifying only 40 to 55% of fast fast bone losers. So that's another area where I would just be very cautious with your language and not to over interpret or over you utilize these test results. The reality is there is no great test. There's no phenomenal tests. I believe testing is most useful for monitoring therapy and for having conversations with patients and opening the door to those conversation to get into the more holistic integrative approaches that we know can improve bone density but more importantly reduce fractures. There are no practical guidelines for how to use these bone turnover markers. A lot of variation preanalytical variations just understand that they need to be done taken fasting because postprandial lead bone turnover markers increase and then if they have any collagen breakdown elsewhere in the body like their systemic sclerosis or congestive heart failure cardiomyopathy, those are also going to increase bone turnover markers and that bone turnover markers can be elevated for up to one year after a fracture. Also the time of year so bone remodeling is occurs more in the winter than in the summer. And so with pre menopausal women show the greatest variation. So if you if you test in the summer, one time in the winter, the next time you shouldn't really be comparing those results. So you want to at least do it test during the same time of year. And if they're pre menopausal during the same phase in their menstrual cycle because that can also change, bone turnover marker levels. Best practices in premenopausal women is to test during the follicular phase. All right, one area within the cancer world where these bone turnover markers may be useful is looking at metastases and early detection of metastases compared to controls p one MP This is a 2007 study not new data was elevated up to 70% of cases of bone metastases for metastatic breast cancer and metastatic ovarian cancer. with ovarian cancer the median was 128. with breast cancer, the median p one MP was 134. Now look the sensitivity is not great in this test in this study about 50% but the specificity was very good. So if it is elevated, be aware that you may end up looking at a bone metastasis situation multiple studies again with with prostate cancer, it increased in that in 2007 study. The increase was detectable eight months before the first positive bone scintigraphy. So this could be an early warning sign that you've gotten a metastasis developing the sensitivity in subsequent tests was higher. But you've just you have this on your radar as you know tool in your pocket with alkaline phosphatase about 20% of liver alkaline phosphatase cross reacts with bone alkaline phosphatase So just realize that it's not necessarily all bone alkaline phosphatase it's being tested and reflects mineralization of bone and can also be elevated in metastatic prostate cancer. The cut off was 100 international units per Lidl leader showed a 79% sensitivity and 88% specificity for bone Mets similar results with a boat with a boat alkaline phosphatase so it's just generic alkaline phosphatase versus bone specific alkaline phosphatase. A cutoff of 30 also showed the sensitivity and specificity for metastatic prostate cancer was also higher and other solid tumors with bone meds compared to patients without metastases in a meta analysis so have that on your radar as well.

Speaker 5  45:29
The International Osteoporosis Foundation The Internet International Federation for clinical chemistry recommends serum CT X but not and TX as a resorption reference marker for use in fracture prediction and osteoporosis treatment monitoring. One of the benefits of the bone turnover markers over DEXA is that they they change faster. So there are two general categories of bone turnover markers. One is the catabolic markers like CT x, which is a breakdown product of collagen, type one collagen that can change much quicker than what you're going to see in a bone and a bone density test a DEXA test because that so you can test that every six weeks. Eight weeks more frequently to monitor those, those changes to bone formation markers like P one and P those change a little slower. So you'll test those in a little longer interval if you're doing that. So the treatment challenges when you're looking at cancer patients and bone health is most of the evidence out there and the research comes from non cancer patients and most of that is in post mental osteoporosis, postmenopausal osteoporosis, and for most clinical scenarios encounter with cancer patients pharmacotherapy fracture or surface survival outcome data do not exist. So we're really taking data from one patient population with one medical history one diagnosis and trying to layer that on and base to another population saying well it worked in this case in postmenopausal osteoporosis, so let's use the drug in this other indication and this other diagnosis as well. That doesn't always work out. So well. And I'm going to give you an example. Now, if you look at proton pump inhibitor induced osteoporosis, there were no clinical trials I want to do with that. And people started just deciding Well, if you know Allender Nate, you know oral bisphosphonates. Or firstline therapy for postmenopausal osteoporosis. Let's just give them in this case as well. So they started doing that. Then people ran clinical trials on that combination. And they discovered that giving a oral bisphosphonate like Fosamax with a proton pump inhibitor increase somebody's fracture risk more than if they were just taking the proton pump inhibitor alone, and the mechanisms of action of proton pump inhibitor, osteoporosis, and postmenopausal osteoporosis are very different. So to think that you're going to take the drug that's used in one clinical indication and use it for something else. It may help, but you really don't know. And I think it's important for us to just recognize the limits of our knowledge and when we're just making stuff up and doing the best job that we can, given the limits of that knowledge. But there's a lot that you can do to reduce fracture risk nonetheless. So the general recommendations from the American Society of Clinical Oncologists to reduce the risk of osteoporosis patients with in non metastatic cancer, calcium and vitamin D, exercise and smoking and alcohol. That is stop smoking, and limit alcohol consumption. And I think people should just stop the alcohol consumption all together. But anyway, limit alcohol consumption to no more than probably, you know, a couple of drinks a week. Let me just make a quick comment on calcium because I think people are overdosing their patients on calcium. The recommendation the US RDA for calcium and adult women is 1200 milligrams per day. There is no indication that getting more than that is better for bone health, the current position statement and the American College for preventive cardiology and the bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation, which used to be called the National Osteoporosis Foundation they rebranded is that people should not be getting more than the tolerable upper upper limit set by the National Academies of medicine. That tolerable upper limit is 2000 to 2500 milligrams of calcium per day. from all sources that diet plus dietary supplements. The average American woman consumes about 800 milligrams of calcium as a dietary supplement. I mean in her diet. 800 milligrams in her diet, and the average American man consumes about 1000 milligrams of calcium in his diet. So these recommendations were people taking 1000 1200 1500 milligrams of supplemental calcium is not supported by the research and actually may be putting in them at risk for rd for adverse cardiovascular events. So just be aware of that. I think for the average patient, the average woman may getting 400 milligrams of calcium as a dietary supplement is going to get her into that healthy 1200 milligram range. Even if her diet is giving her a little more calcium than that, then it's still not going to put her into that risk of getting too much calcium. But also, if they're getting it through diet, you don't need to supplement additional calcium at all. So ideally, they're getting it from diet. This is where they asked what guidelines in my opinion are lacking. There's no recommendation for dietary pattern. There's no recommendation for the amount of protein people should eat or getting adequate sleep, social support environmental risk factors or supplementing with MK four, as I already mentioned, and I'll go into more details as to why in a moment. So dietary pattern. This isn't the postmenopausal osteoporosis that what we've seen over and over is that the greater somebody adheres to a Mediterranean diet. There's a 21% decrease risk and hip fracture and they have a higher bone mineral density scores. Higher adherence also is associated with healthier lifestyle and in cancer patients even higher adherence. is inversely associated with cancer mortality, protective our fruits, vegetables, whole grains, you know, not surprisingly, it's a plant forward diet. Protein Protein is important because two to 4% of bone mineral density actually can be a protein consumption. Let me say that another way. The amount of protein somebody consumes within the normal range can account for two to 4% of their bone mineral density. A lot of people aren't getting enough protein aren't even getting the recommended amount by the RDA of protein. people older than 60 years old. 15 15% of those consume less than 75% of the RDA, so they're getting minimal amount of protein. And even younger than that, it's overall you're talking you know, 38 41% of men and women are eating less than the RDA for for protein. Researchers also shown that the as we age, we need more protein to maintain healthy bones and muscle mass. So I don't believe the USRDS is sufficient. I think people need to get more than that as they get older, as well. About 1.3 grams per kilogram body weight per day is what I like to recommend. Or if you're if they the weight is in pounds, about 0.59 0.6 grams of protein per pound of body weight per day. Why is that so important? Well, bone is more than just the mineral content I recommended. I mentioned collagen, but bone is incredibly protein dependent. There are 180 to 200 different proteins in bone besides collagen in addition to collagen. So that also goes back to the story about the bone turnover markers you're like with CT X and anti X and other ones you're you're measuring these proteins in in this in from bone, but bone has so many proteins. It's such a complex tissue that boiling it down to say okay, this one lab value this one result it all boils down to that that's just not how the physiology or the tissue works. Alright, sleep. What we do know is that insomnia, sleeping less than five hours a night is associated with lower bone mineral density. And that was a Women's Health Initiative study, lower hip osteoporosis and with his osteoporosis in the hip and spine. And what we see with the UK Biobank dataset, is that sleep behavior accounts for 17% of fractures. And so there's a you can give somebody a sleep risk score. The higher the score, the greater their risk for fractures. And you can see the the the different score the questions about insomnia, abnormal sleep duration, late chronotype. If they go to bed, evening, then morning, and then frequent daytime sleepiness, but I don't really go into that detail with patients clinically. I don't find it very helpful. I just talked to them about their sleep. How many hours do they get? On average, a knight has difficulty falling asleep versus staying asleep and then I work with them on those different patterns to improve their sleep.

Speaker 5  54:26
Melatonin. One of those recommendations could include melatonin there are melatonin receptors on bone just like there are so serotonin receptors on bone which is why the serotonin reuptake inhibitors and the serotonin serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor drugs damaged bone because serotonin and bone. In fact 95% of serotonin is not in the brain at all. It's in the periphery. It's produced by intero intero chromaffin cells in the intestines and then accumulates in the platelets were circulated through the cardiovascular system, and it never crosses the blood brain barrier. Well when it gets to the bones and serotonin receptors and bone when serotonin gets too high, it stimulates osteo class to have more activity and increases how long they live. And that's why it results in bone breakdown because osteoporosis at the end of the day is a disease of imbalance. And what we want to do is try and restore balance to the system. One of those ways to do that you may want to give some some melatonin because when melatonin is increased through supplementation, what we've seen at least in this clinical trial with osteopenia is that bone density goes up in a dose dependent manner. They gave one in three milligrams, three milligrams was better than one milligram. We don't know what the optimal dosage is, but bone mineral density did improve. There are no fracture outcomes data from my reading of the literature, the highest and the best evidence is if they have fracture outcomes data, in the absence of that then I do want to see bone density data. And if they don't have that, at least give me some molecular mechanism I can hang my hat on at least understand, but but the best data is going to be fracture outcomes, social support, this is associated inversely with osteoporosis risk and all cause mortality. And it's associated with a relatively 25% decrease in overall mortality risk as well. And what the research showed is just having three close people gives you the best benefit. If someone were to break a bone it's also associated with faster recovery from that all cause mortality 30% lower risk of all cause mortality as well. So exercise and fall risk. So 94% of people over 65 years old are prescribed a medication and increase their risk for falling. So be aware of that. It's It's horrific. I mean, basically they're in the highest risk for fractures in the squelette from that and death. And they're being prescribed these medications and increase their fall risk, whether it's whether it's antihypertensives or hypnotics, or other medications that increase fall risk and back to the medication induced osteoporosis phenomenon. As an aside, a study was done where they looked at the amount of medications the medication that patients were taking in the three months prior to breaking a bone and being hospitalized for that. And then what they were taking upon discharge and for the three months after what they found is that over I believe if my memory serves me correctly, 75 to 85% of the patients were taking some medication that increased their risk for falling reduce their risk or damage their bone density, reduced bone density, and increase their risk for fractures. Commonly not surprising were the prednisone, SSRIs, proton pump inhibitors and other medications as well. But what happened is when they were discharged, what they found is there's no no benefit, meaning that when the medication was identified for putting them at risk in the hospital like prednisone, they were simply if they were taken off one medication and increased fractures, they were put on a different medication that increased fracture risk. So the overall there is no net benefits. So if you educate yourself onto this list of medications that cause increased fracture risk, you're going to be doing your patients a huge service just by that that medication review. So exercise improves strength and balance. You don't have to walk 10,000 steps today that that myth. It was a beautiful marketing campaign that was created by a Japanese Watch Company. They were out of whole cloth, no data they were trying to sell more watches and what the research shows is that you get a reduction of 50 to 70% in all cause mortality by just walking 7000 to 7500 steps a day. resistance exercises can improve bone density and reduce fracture risk as well. And I think it's important what I like to say is that if you're not pushing against weight, you're not pushing against the aging years. You're not pushing against that risk for mortality. You're not pushing against your diseases that are coming toward you. Because over and over exercise and strength is a predictor for better recovery, longevity, reduce risk for many diseases, fall risks and community dwelling results. There are things that you can't change, non modifiable risks like their age, but things you can change as well environmental hazards making sure the home is fracture proofed with bars on the grab bars near the toilet in the shower. The any loose steps are fixed hallways are well lit there are no tables or coffee tables jutting out into common walking areas where people can hit themselves and on it and fall. Things of that nature. Their footwear as I mentioned before, make sure that's adequate, most consistent predictor of future Falls is that gain or balance abnormality I've already said that once it just bears repeating so dietary supplement criteria when I review the dietary supplement criteria when I'm making my own decisions, I want to know are there fracture outcomes data in clinical trials showing it work and is there safety data? So the four nutrients fit the criteria for having both improvement in bone density and the reduction in fractures, calcium and vitamin D mK four and strontium Contrary to popular belief, and I'm asking people I've been doing it for 20 years. When people say well there has to be magnesium with calcium. I have to have magnesium in my in my supplement. I keep asking people please send me a citation. There's one study only one study that I found from the 1990s that use magnesium oxide that showed that improved bone density, no fracture outcomes data on that and even and there are some data showing that low RBC, magnesium and low serum magnesium are associated with osteoporosis and fractures. But just because that's the case doesn't mean us if you supplement somebody with magnesium, it reduces their fracture risk. And even when you look at dietary epidemiological research with diet and magnesium consumption, you're not looking at a strong association. And a lot of this data studies are negative with magnesium intake and fractures. So I like to see randomized clinical trials with a nutrient showing it actually works. Now don't get me wrong. I'm a huge fan of magnesium. Most people don't consume an adequate amount of magnesium in their diet. It's used for over 200 metabolic and biochemical processes in the body. But when I'm working with somebody just on bone health, and I'm trying to reduce their fracture risk and osteoporosis, I want to know that the nutrients that I'm recommending have been shown to do exactly what I want them what I need the patient to experience and that is not breaking a bone. Now magnesium, people are typically also going to be on a multivitamin and any good high quality multivitamin is gonna have a healthy amount of magnesium as well and hopefully you're working with your patients on improving their diet because that's the first line that's where people should be getting most of their nutrients. Anyway, strontium when he mentioned strontium, briefly, strontium has been shown to improve bone density and reduce fractures only in the form of Strontium Ranelate, which is approved as a medication in Europe and was taken off the market for a while because it showed for every one fracture that it prevented. It also cause a blood clot that can create a thromboembolism or a heart attack or a stroke. So every one patient that was being helped one was being harmed as well. In the US, Strontium Ranelate is not available it's only available as Strontium Citrate a dietary supplement, there are no clinical trials with the safety or efficacy of Strontium Citrate. Additionally, while bone density tests have their limitations, it's a mineral and incorporates into the bone and it will create false bone density test results. So I like my test results to be accurate. And if you're looking at the fracture potential of strontium, if you think you're just assuming that the Strontium Ranelate data translate into Strontium Citrate, which it might we just don't know. What we saw is about a 45% reduction in vertebral fracture risk which is no better than Fosamax or any of those bisphosphonates and of the six large clinical trials only. Only one of the six showed that it also reduced hip fractures, which is the most dangerous type of fractures. The other five large clinical trials only showed vertebral fracture reduction. So for all those reasons, I'm not a fan of strontium MK four MK four has been approved in Japan since 1995. For osteoporosis and bone pain caused by osteoporosis it's been studying all of these patient populations.

Speaker 5  1:04:10
When you look at vitamin K, there's a lot of problems out there and the research is you start looking into it and creates a lot of confusion. I've had to email the primary the researchers directly to ask them which form of vitamin K they use because often they'll just say, Vitamin K to in the study or in this meta analysis for example, but but they won't tell you which type of vitamin K to well, they're not the same molecule MK four and MK seven. They have the MK four as a shorter side chain than MK seven fewer carbon atoms. We know in biochemistry if you change one carbon atom it can have overlapping but different have different effects just like we see with MK four and MK seven for example. MK seven has also never been shown to have any anti neoplastic properties. Where MK four, they're up to phase two clinical trials on the cancers that I previously mentioned, as well as lots of studies looking at the molecular mechanisms by which affects cancer cells. With this meta analysis. You can see the results that I made I bolded. At the end the results can not be confirmatory with regard to the relative effectiveness of different vitamin K regimens. So just be aware of that you got to really understand which type are they talking about. The First Men analysis that looked at Vitami MK four was in 2006. Several, a couple of the studies, three of the studies were retracted after that and then analysis came out. So I've heard it criticized but you can't use it. But you can because fortunately, they also are in the original paper by kakuni cockayne. I think that's how you pronounce his name and his colleagues. They did a subset analysis. They recognize some of the data from those studies that were retracted already before they retracted looked looked odd to them. And so they did a subset analysis where they omitted those those three, those three studies, and it still showed and that's I think table three in the original 2006 article. It still showed a 60% reduction in vertebral fracture risk 76% reduction of all non vertebral fractures that's in the dose of 45 milligrams per day. More recent meta analysis, the 19 studies they had MK seven in the analysis MK four but when you look at the actual data for which studies showed fracture as an endpoint, all of those used MK for all of those studies use MK four. And what you saw is a significant difference in fracture incidence of a relative risk of 0.47 in those taking the MK four again 45 milligrams per day as well as improvements in bone mineral density 2022 meta analysis similar when you look at just the MK four studies in this meta analysis, you're looking at a 60% significant reduction 62% reduction in fractures compared to the controls. So ASCO pharmacotherapy, and I know this was supposed to go five to six, how am I doing on time? You're doing great. Okay, thanks. I can't see so I'm just looking at my screen here. All right. So evidence. So ASCO pharmacotherapy, they even say that there's a paucity of evidence of fracture prevention outcomes in cervical cancer survivors. So they're recognizing that as well now for bone modifying agents. They're recommending that you offer that to reduce the risk of fractures when there's a non metastatic disease, they have osteoporosis, or there's an increased risk of 10 year probability based on the fraks tool that I talked about. But please be aware none of those recommendations have been validated, zero have been validated. All right. So what did we what are the what does it show in the postmenopausal osteoporosis world? So when you look at primary versus secondary prevention, and most of the studies out there are our secondary prevention clinical trials, and you start digging into the research and trying to tease it apart? Fortunately, some some folks have done that for us, but what what I what they find is that for primary prevention, if you're looking at preventing both vertebral and hip fractures, vertebral and nonvertebral fractures, only one of the medications have been shown to do that for primary prevention, that's Zometa. Now, why would you want to prevent only hip vertebral fractures, which is what the medications, do they they're good at primary vertebral fracture prevention, but not primary hip fracture. So I don't know why somebody would want to just prevent a fracture at one site and not all sites. So Zometa if you've if you've got to choose one is so far the best one we have for secondary prevention. There are a lot more options however. And here's the secondary prevention data and postmenopausal osteoporosis you can spend some time with the side if you like. I'm a big fan of more of the anabolic medications. I love tear Forteo or teriparatide, it's old, we knew it safety, the the old, the fear and the recommendation even the package insert that it can cause bone cancer is BS. That was based on the very small study with rats that used it. I think it was 400 times the dose of what's been given to humans. There have been millions of doses of Forteo given and no cases of bone cancer at all. So I'm not worried about that risk. But the anabolics have better fracture reduction than the bisphosphonates that are that are out there or the SERMs with a VISTA you know, non significant nonvertebral I'm not a big fan of relaxing anyway. All right, so skeletal related events and cancer patients. Yeah, what are those? Those are hypercalcemia spinal cord compression fractures, pathological fractures, and median survival and bone only Mets with breast cancers just two to three years so the prognosis is not good. When it gets to maths as I'm sure everybody knows here. Somebody has hypercalcemia median time to survive those three months, spinal cord compression for months and fracture 12 months. So we really want to try and reduce that there was a clinical trial recently 2022 That looked at compared Zometa zoledronic acid with the Nasim AB and that what we found is that demonic Dinafem Abra Prolia is superior at preventing a first skeletal related event compared to Zometa and preventing subsequent skeletal related events. But there is no overall survival benefit, no significant difference so you could you know, reducing their skeletal related events can improve their quality of life, which is good, but we don't have survival better survival outcomes. Breast cancer with bone Mets what we see is that DiNozzo Mab is superior to so Mata and Pamidronate for preventing those those events compared to placebo. There's a relative risk is not significantly better, but still, you know, hopefully we can do better than that. Eventually with with some medications, know the modifying agents have no shown survival benefit, no improvement in survival. That's important when advising patients as well. So when you're looking at glucocorticoid, your Gi Oh glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis I mentioned that earlier in the talk, the American College of Rheumatology guidelines for the prevention and treatment stratifies treatment recommendations based on whether patients are low made moderate or high risk for fractures, anybody with cancer, chemotherapy or any of their medications. I would personally consider them higher risk for fractures. But regardless at the very bottom, in bold that says most recommendations in their guidelines are conditional. They don't know what the benefits of bowel what the balance between benefits and harms are. And you see this repeatedly out there and these clinical guidance we just don't know we don't know if we're hurting patients and we don't know if we're helping patients. But here's what we recommend you do good luck. It's really frustrating. So Fosamax, they're recommending these bisphosphonates as first line three treatment but what do the clinical trials show in glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis? Well, first systematic analysis is done in 2018. An increased bone density but it not did not decrease fractures over any time period. Prolia first meta analysis was 2019. Bone density was in increased but it was underpowered to detect differences in fracture risk again, this is all in glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis, and Forteo, we have no meta analysis, clinical trials indicated may be more effective than than Alendronate for fractures, but we just don't know. MK for for glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis, it's been shown to stop bone loss by

Speaker 5  1:13:34
by glucocorticoids. There are no fractures as the outcome data in this patient population like there are for MK for postmenopausal osteoporosis, but it has been shown to stop the bone loss and it's a nutrient, it's safe. The LD LD 50 For MK four is kilograms per day. And the clinical dose is 45 milligrams in an osteoporosis and in cancer clinical trials went all the way up to 135 milligrams per day orally and intravenously. So this is the first clinical trial talk about their several with the MK four. One was a low dose 50 milligrams per day, and all patients also received prednisolone as well. Importantly, it's safe even people with chronic kidney disease on dialysis. MK four has been given safely. So an MK four with vitamin D also typically recommended in for kidney health and bone health can be taken together in this population. Gotta be careful obviously with on dialysis and chronic kidney disease with supplementing with any minerals, calcium included so what we're seeing this result 50 milligrams per day, it preserved bone density. There was no significant change over 12 months. And with the glucocorticoid group alone, you had significant decrease in bone density that they didn't statistically evaluate fractures. But there's one fracture and patients taking glucocorticoids none in the MK four plus glucocorticoid group. The same clinical trials was was two years they had a four groups. You're talking about a control group, one with vitamin D to an MK four group and one with vitamin D plus MK four and all of them also had prednisone as well. All participants also took prednisone not prednisone, I'm sorry. And what you saw is that in the vitamin D plus K group died in D plus MK four group had the the best improvement in bone density. So there's actually an improvement in bone density at the higher dose of 45 milligrams versus the 15 milligrams in the previous study per day and an even better improvement when it was combined with vitamin D. And we see this in postmenopausal osteoporosis or also when MK fours and those other studies was combined with vitamin d3. The improvement in bone density is greater than just taking MK four alone. Also with dividing the group D that's all say about that. So clinical guidelines with SSRIs and SNRIs. No published clinical drug guidelines for the prevention and treatment SSR induced bone loss you should screen your your your patients on these medications baseline and follow up routinely on that I'm a fan as you if you haven't already noticed of MK four because it's been shown to stop bone loss caused by other medications and it's been shown to be effective in postmenopausal osteoporosis and it's non toxic with a long safety history even at higher doses. But I also think a functional approach or a more integrative approach to whatever underlying depression is going on can be helpful because we do know that micronutrient deficiencies and even deficiencies of any one essential amino acid amino acid creates symptoms of depression and other mood disorders. And so doing a plasma amino acids test and urinary organic acids test can be helpful. Looking at serum ferritin is important as well. The serum ferritin test the lab reference range for serum ferritin is so broad as to be clinically useless. You see anywhere from 10 all the way up over to over 200 I've seen and the there's one clinical trial that looked at women whose serum ferritin was under 50 and they had fatigue and they they gave them iron and their serum ferritin improved above 50 and their fatigue was reduced or their energy increased by 50%. And we see that as well with respect to mood now a lot of patients also have a hard time supplementing with iron, so making sure you've got a good absorbable form. And the replenishment does for iron is one to two milligrams or two to three milligrams per kilogram body weight per day. So making sure you're getting adequate iron is important because it can affect mood as well. Russell Blaylock, I liked his work. He's neurologists, you don't know him. He said, you know 90 to 110. He likes that as a ferritin. And I typically want to get people closer to that level as well. But if their symptoms improve, I'm not worried if they're a little bit under that. So clinical guidelines on PPI is also lacking no pin clinical guidelines published on preventing or treating PPI induced bone loss. Similarly, with with other medications there can be a decrease in minerals PPIs cause iron deficiency magnesium deficiency B vitamin deficiencies so replenishing those if they're low testing if they need it, correcting the microbiome dysfunction that also occurs with ppi use if they have to be on them. h2 ra blockers seem to be safer than PPI So switching them to an h2 ra also maybe helpful. There are some bad for aibl There is actually good data for for using Prolia Manassa Mab, bisphosphonates have not been shown to reduce fractures in aromatase inhibitor, bone loss all of those alphabet soup letter of organizations that recommend Prolia or bisphosphonates for the prevention of aromatase inhibitor bone loss plus calcium and vitamin D but again, there's phosphates and never been shown to reduce fractures in this group. There were here's a clone of phase three clinical trial of DiNozzo Mab with eight year follow up. primary endpoint was fracture and overall survival. And you see a significant increase in disease free survival in this patient population and bone met metastasis free survival also a significant improvement in overall survival also say not significantly, but it's it's close point 065 for the p value. So that you do have reduction in fractures when you after censoring some more data analysis. They do see an increase in overall survival. Second study here with DiNozzo Mab, the risk for clinical fractures was significantly reduced compared to placebo, about a 51% reduction and 36 months after stopping it and this is always the rub with these medications. People aren't on them forever. What do you do after they stopped them 36 months after the discontinuation of a discontinuation of demonic DiNozzo Mab for Cipro but not hip fracture, a risk increased. Again, MK four because of the different studies I already mentioned, clinical recommendations for ADT. For endometriosis, you should only last six months or less followed by addback hormone therapy. For ADT induced bone loss in men undergoing prostate cancer treatment. You need to assess bone density using a DEXA. pharmacotherapy, although clinical trials are lacking again. And what you see did awesome AB has been FDA approved for the treatment increased bone mass and men at high risk for fractures receiving androgen deprivation therapy for non metastatic prostate cancer. That's when the Purulia package insert but these guidelines are lacking in two respects. One, it doesn't recommend adequate amounts of protein one of the mechanisms of action by which ADT increases fracture risk is by creating sarcopenia so making sure that they're really getting enough protein to maintain bone mass and exercising are as important. Also considering MK four based on that six month clinical trial that I mentioned before 45 milligrams per day that attenuated the bone loss and women at least being treated with GnRH and anti agonist Alright, right. This is the last slide summary of management recommendations diet, Mediterranean diet, getting enough protein exercise, be careful with exercise because some poses like pigeon pose and yoga, somebody has weaker bones increases the force on the pelvis and can actually increase hip fracture risk. So just be careful things need to be modified, getting enough sleep having social support, getting enough of the nutrients and I mentioned calcium adequate vitamin D in the general population, the serum vitamin D of 30 to 44 nanograms per milliliter is associated with the lowest hip fracture risk. And back to that bone density doesn't correlate well to fracture risk story. You can see bone density actually go up with vitamin D as low as nine, nine to about 33 Nine to about 30 But you don't get that maximum hip fracture reduction until the 33 or 30 to 44 range. MK 445 milligrams a day melatonin three milligrams no in cancer settings people go even higher than that, which is I think great. Identify and remove or reduce meds and increased fracture risk. And for all the drugs asked the question, Has it been shown to reduce skeletal related events and increase overall survival in this clinical situation? And that's all I got.

Speaker 5  1:23:44
That's all she wrote. Have anything questions if there's still time. wonderful talk. Thanks.

Speaker 4  1:23:56
Hey, Doc, have you heard of osteo strong by any chance?

Speaker 5  1:24:00
osteo strong the favorite franchise?

Unknown Speaker  1:24:05
Yeah, there are franchise. Yeah, I've

Speaker 5  1:24:07
heard of them. I've talked to one of the owners of our one of the local ones here. Okay. They have no fracture outcome data. I asked for studies they have some bone density data you know, vibrational plates and resistance exercise. I think that's all great, but those are surrogate markers. I think it's great. I don't have a problem with it because it's resistance exercise. It's it's improving balance. And, and it seems safe. I really don't have a problem with it. It's it's expensive. So that may limit it. I agree. So, but I don't have a problem with it.

Speaker 4  1:24:42
Well, Dr. Jacque was you know, he created it because his mother had osteoporosis. Father was the creator of the power plate with the you know, NASA astronauts. And so his process now seems to be pretty intense in fighting bone density.

Speaker 5  1:25:03
i Yeah, it's great. I again, I think I have no I have no problems with people doing that. And if that I like to meet people where they're at, I mean, part of that is getting out what's interesting if people don't want to do that, like even just getting out of gardening, walking. I mean that that alone, it can be really helpful for people. So maybe they'll be doing more intense exercise at some point, but you know, step by step.

Speaker 4  1:25:30
Well, you know, he has four machines once pull down. Once pull up, one Yep, push. Yeah. Important in 10 to 15 seconds each. That's it? Absolutely. And after I did it for I don't know a couple months. I was pretty blown away as a jar head with the results. I'll tell you. It was pretty intense. So have you looked into that or, you know, followed up with him? Because you know, he's easy. He's involved with Tony Robbins. So obviously if Tony Robbins is involved, there's, you know, something, something to go on with with with going on with this. And I just I think that his process could be huge, because He created it for his mother. He created your

Speaker 5  1:26:23
testimonial is a great one. I've heard similar stories. And I also would just say you set up I looked into it, as I mentioned early, just with this question at the beginning, I spoken with the owner of our local franchise, I never spoke with the founder. And I talked to them and they supplied some studies to me. And that's that's the research that I've done so far.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:43
Okay, excellent. Thank you. You're welcome.

Speaker 5  1:26:50
Ken, are we gonna Can we read some of these questions in the chat?

Bill Clearfield  1:26:53
I'll read them to you if you want. Sure. Okay. Well they wanted your email address we got that let's see what is the best type of calcium?

Speaker 5  1:27:09
So I I favor calcium citrate because a lot of forms of calcium like calcium carbonate, which everybody knows require stomach acid requires a low pH. And as people get older, especially if they have any comorbidities like autoimmune diseases or they're taking acid blocking medications, that pH in their stomach is going to be higher, and so they're not going to disassociate the calcium from the carbonate and be able to actually absorb the, the mineral calcium citrate dissociates at a higher pH about pH of six, and so the absorption is higher than calcium carbonate. And when when there's hypochlorhydria, again, which is quite common, especially as people age, the absorption rate compared to calcium carbonate is even higher. So that's why I prefer calcium citrate. It's gentle on the stomach and if somebody has oxalate kidney stones, it's also safe for oxalate people with kidney stones as well for most types of kidney stones.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:19
Okay, there's a comment I think says hey to is to help calcium go to bones rather than arteries.

Speaker 5  1:28:26
So that's an interesting question. That I would I would ask in response to that. Okay, what is the outcome data that we're showing that that actually goes to the How can you prove that and I see that claim a lot. So MK four has been shown. So if you look at it calcium in the bones one way you can assume that it's doing that is to say well, this bone mineral density improve. MK seven, as I mentioned, has never been shown to improve bone density and in one study it actually the rate of bone loss on the hip, increased in people taking MK seven women taking MK seven MK four repeatedly has been shown to stop and bone loss and improve bone density. And so in that sense, you can say okay, it's driving it to the bone, but is it really driving it to the bone it has, like many nutrients. It has a lot of activities in the bone it activates bone collagen genes and modulates NF Kappa Beta increases osteoblast differentiation and through an mesenchymal stem cells. It has a lot of mechanisms of action. And so you know what's actually doing that and isn't pulling it out of the arteries? Well, then you can look at clinical trials, which has been done on after coronary artery disease. And that data I think, is really preliminary, to be able to say that it can help decalcify or slow down coronary artery calcifications. So I just think that's a that's a really tough statement and claim to find the proof for unless you look at the bone density and look at increasing bone density and say, Okay, people taking MK four does not their their serum calcium scores don't go up. It's been shown to keep it in the normal range, and their bone density goes up. Okay, that's all good stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:32
Okay, well, natural aromatase inhibitors like die indoor methane, which helps in methylation also cause osteoporosis risk.

Speaker 5  1:30:41
So there are no clinical trials on that. But interestingly enough, I had a male patient recently in his 50s with osteoporosis 80% of osteoporosis cases in the general public are in women. 20% are in men, male osteoporosis, don't see it as frequently obviously. But in talking to this guy, like what I'm trying to figure out what's going on, he had his testosterone T tested, and it was it was fine. He had no symptoms of hypogonadism and then as I'm talking and going on and ask him, what supplements he's taking on, he exercises and he eats well, I mean, there's just nothing there. And then he tells me for years, he's been taking dim for something else. Somebody told him, it was good for us. He was taking dim and I think that's probably what happened. So it reduces E to so even in men, estrogen as Esther dial is what's responsible for maintaining bone health and bone, bone mass. And so I would say that, that's the only case I've seen of that, and it's been too soon. I had him stopped him and we're doing other things to see what's, what's going on and what changes with his bone density. But I think that that that is a really important thing to be aware of. And you just don't want to drop their their estrogen too low.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:07
Right. So back in the day, I always say that, you know, when we first started, didn't have a whole lot to go on. We would, you know get our guys up to 1500 on testosterone and give them enough it aromatase inhibitor so that their estrogens were zero. That's, that's where that's where we started. That was about 25 years ago. We figured out it didn't take too long to figure out that that wasn't right. Now, let me ask you this. Let me ask you what your opinion is because over the last two years or so the especially at a ram mg age management Medical Group, there's a stronger sort of site. Number of Doc's who say you should leave estrogen alone for men and shouldn't shouldn't touch it at all and if it goes to 80, no big deal if it goes to one doctor actually takes he said up to seven milligrams of extra dial a day. And his goal is to get guys testosterones to 2000 and Astra dials to 250 which seems a little crazy to me, but have you heard anything about this? So this

Speaker 5  1:33:16
is the first I've heard of that. Hi, I typically like to keep the extra dial, you know, between 20 and 40 at the max space unless they're symptomatic and with you know, get gynecomastia or or have decreased libido or anything like that, but no, I don't I don't I don't understand why they want to push the estrogen that Hi. I'd be curious to know the logic. One

Bill Clearfield  1:33:40
of the big things was osteoporosis that was if we give them a you know, as you know, the aromatase inhibitors and induces osteoporosis So,

Speaker 5  1:33:50
but well, but only I mean, I don't think that if so, if somebody is on TRT they should be getting their right their their testosterone tested routinely, along with their estradiol, every blood test should should test both hormones and just say it right but then then you can give an aromatase inhibitor you know, one pill, you know, every, you know, two or three times a week for a couple of weeks, and then stop, it'll drive that extra dial down. You don't have to get up every day. I mean, I'd be concerned,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:27
you know, we usually did it one to three times a week and you know, that at most, and we would try to keep it between 15 and 25. If it got up to 40 You know, then we would say well, okay, we need to, you know, be a little bit more aggressive, but this is the this is the last two years. I mean, we've had whole lectures on this on on why not to block the estrogen at all. And some of them are even taking estradiol I mean only seven milligrams of Esther dial a day I don't give that to menopausal women.

Speaker 5  1:34:57
I don't know maybe I'm missing something. That seems

Bill Clearfield  1:35:01
a little crazy to me, but that's I mean, that's an i we you know, we were arguing with them, you know, the guy Oh guy up on the stage and I was called a Neanderthal for that for even suggesting that we block estrogen at you know, the extra dials at all. So, you know, I've been called other things so it's all is is pretty, pretty tame. Life Extension as a vitamin D kit and K with C iodine, and I think it's got 10 milligrams of iodine in it. Did you know that? We have it here.

Speaker 5  1:35:34
I didn't know that. And I'm looking down that they met this one question also mentioned zymogen And they've got algae Cal at the bottom or lower. So if I can just take a moment to comment on these some of these formulations. If that's okay. So here's the here's the bottom line has been have the nutrients again, I always go back to this fundamental question no matter what, no matter what somebody is recommending have the nutrients in the formula, and in the doses in the formula been shown not only to improve bone density, but more importantly, to reduce fractures. Right not just change a surrogate marker, but actually change the clinically most relevant and the most dangerous thing with this, this condition. So when you look at the algae, algae cow, they've got the calcium from corals, like coral calcium, I believe, which is calcium carbonate, and they've got trace minerals and they've got one a version with strontium and I already talked about strontium on there that did the other trace minerals and all that that's great. I mean, in a multivitamin, they should do that algae calcium data showing improvement of bone density. They have no fracture outcomes data, though. In terms of the the life extension vitamin D and K. Again, I don't know if that's what what the doses of or which one, you're referring to what the form of vitamin K is, and there's there's two products, I believe zymogen Ns k two is MK seven if I'm correct in that, and MK seven has never been shown to reduce fractures or improve bone density or stop bone loss in postmenopausal osteoporosis. With respect to the MK for all the clinical trials, use 50 They use 45 milligrams use 15 milligrams three times a day. So T ID dosing I know life extension as an MK four product now it's 45 milligrams per day. But they I I'm not a big fan of that because it's got a short half life and in that single day dosing has never been tested. Now my The this is where I'll talk about my products because it's relevant. So the line of products I created started creating in 2007 osteo k being the first have the 45 milligrams per day of MK four with calcium and vitamin d3. And that's a 22.5 milligram per serving dose of MK four and I calculated the half life ad with the half life of MK four I calculated you know did I think I could get to the serum concentrations that would work to improve bone density and reduce fractures with di D dosing instead of t ID dosing because as you all know, compliance is a challenge with T ID dosing. And I made the calculated conclusion that yes, I could. And so I created the product and then I created a few years later another one called last UK minis that has less calcium 400 milligrams a day instead of 1000 milligrams per day and the original formulation, fewer capsules, smaller capsules and then one that's called osteo MK four that's just mk 445 milligrams per day and vitamin D 2000. I use they all have the same amount of vitamin D and that's just one capsule twice twice a day. So I am so convinced by the data in the published clinical trials and working with these nutrients and these products for 17 years now selling over 30 million capsules we've shipped in over 15 countries around around the world, distributed through fullscript and different wholesale distributors and direct wholesale accounts through my company as well direct to Doc's and with my own patients that I have created what's called the strong bones guarantee. Not we guarantee that not only will somebody's bone density stabilize or improve within six months of taking it, but if somebody breaks a bone, we will refund them money for all qualifying purchases between their bone density tests. So when you talk to me about these other formulations that have all these other nutrients, boron, magnesium, none of those were used in the clinical trials and showed over 70% reduction in fractures. So you know that's why I feel so confident because of the data. That Okay, look, you can read all the studies. That's great. And I encourage you to I love educating people come to your own conclusions, but I now guarantee it as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:23
All right, that's that's why these folks come here because we bring we bring them the best right?

Speaker 5  1:40:30
Okay, I'm honored to be lumped into that category. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:35
Can you comment on the difference between calcium found in the marketplace versus an ionized calcium product?

Speaker 5  1:40:42
I saw a lecture on ionized calcium at a conference a couple of years ago. And they didn't they have no fracture outcomes down and so again, I always ask the same question. I'm gonna sound like a broken record because I really want to hammer this point home to clinicians and even the general public. Osteoporosis is not complicated when it comes down to just cutting through all the noise cut through all the noise. There's just one fundamental question when it comes to the treatment or the recommendations has it been shown to reduce fractures? Now it may the absence of data doesn't mean the absence of effect, like just because the data is there, it may reduce it may reduce fractures, but let's just be honest with what we don't know and what we do know and what we're assuming. So I don't know if ionized calcium does that. It's also very expensive. And so it doesn't really seem when I look at the clinical trials on calcium, frankly, I'm not seeing in terms of an outcome that one form of calcium is necessarily better than another form. Most of the clinical trials and the ones that looked at fractures use calcium carbonate for different reasons. I don't use calcium carbonate, as I already mentioned, but that's I'm not so sure that one form of calcium is necessarily better than another.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:05
All right, I think even way back when we were taught I needed calcium and we need a little bit of vitamin D I think 400 units of vitamin D twice a day with 600 of calcium. That wasn't going to cut it as far as you know, the bol and endo for preventing or you know, or even treating, you know, osteoporosis that that was.

Speaker 5  1:42:27
So, when you look at it down on calcium and vitamin D, you're talking about about a 16 to 22% reduction in fracture. So it's not it's something statistically significant and clinically relevant. But when you add the MK for 45 milligrams per day and that you know the the outcomes data show very clearly you're looking at over 70% reduction in relative fracture risk

Bill Clearfield  1:42:51
any any new or up to date research when testosterone arrestor dial benefits for preventing osteoporosis.

Speaker 5  1:42:59
Now, not anything new that I know I mean, what we deal with with estradiol is that you're looking at about a 40% reduction in overall fracture risk in postmenopausal osteoporosis. About a 28% reduction in hip fracture risk. And that's starting when it started in perimenopause and the data goes up to age. I think it's up to age 60. After that, I think we were missing some data but you want to start it as you're going through menopause.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:28
We've had information for a long time about testosterone also can increase bone density and decrease fracture rates also. So I don't have it off the top of my head but it's in one of my lectures. But that's been around for a long time. I don't know that there's anything new.

Speaker 5  1:43:47
Now. I don't think there's anything new new either. I mean, the only Yeah, I don't. I haven't seen anything new.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:55
Okay, and so, we're good. You know, the CME provider has sort of disappeared. So we're still recording everything for that just in case they come back or we get a new one. But we're okay. So, your 45 milligram MK four. Why don't you talk about that, John.

Speaker 5  1:44:18
So that's there are three versions of the product and it's osteo K as I mentioned, osteo K minis and osteo MK four. You can find the information on my website and bi health.com as well as summary table of the clinical trials and the meta analyses are on there. I'm happy to send anybody any of the PDFs if you want just let me know you can read the studies for yourself. And as I mentioned, the only difference between the products is the amount of calcium. So all of them have 45 milligrams per day of MK four. And by the way, when you look at the raw materials for dietary supplements on the market, MK four is available in two different concentrations. There's there's 1% MK four so when you see these companies that are using one milligram or five milligrams of MK four and their product by the way, my company owns the trademark MK four as a little bit of an aside, but when you look at that they're probably using the 1% MK four meaning it's cut with something else. I don't know what the other 99% or something else. I only purchased 98% Pure MK four and you can't I mean you look at the assays a lot it's a lot of times it's higher than that, but there's there's you can't legally they can't say it's 100% but it's that's the purest form of MK four that I can find on the market. So it's 98% Pure mk 445 milligrams per day. For a each product plus 2000 I use a vitamin d3 per day for each product, 1000 milligrams of calcium as calcium citrate per day in osteo K 400 milligrams of calcium as calcium citrate and asked you MK or osteo K minis and osteo MK four is our calcium free version of the product. If you use fullscript or Emerson Emeka logics, they are only caring at the moment osteo K and OSGEO que minis please ask them if you want them to pick up osteo MK four to request it from them because they've decided not to freeze their catalogue at the moment and not add any new products. But the osteoma K four and all the products are available wholesale directly through my website. And for those folks in the Philippines. We do ship into the Philippines. There are only a few countries around the world that we don't ship into for various reasons but we have shipped into the Philippines as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:42
Okay, so when doing an initial intake for a patient with osteoporosis or osteopenia, what do you suggest running a CT x?

Speaker 5  1:46:52
Now, I don't I tend to the older I've gotten, the less testing I actually do. I can get a pretty good sense of where they're at. You know holistically by talking to them doing a 24 hour diet recall. Because pretty much diet people's diets don't change all that much. And it's they tend to eat the same things over and over and getting a sense of that and starting to move them in the direction of that Mediterranean style diet, their handouts I've got and protocol I have there's a there's a it's in my book fracture proof your bone and all a lot of what I talked about is in that book and it walks people through how to create a holistic bone health program for themselves and questions ask their ask their doctors. So in there as well or instructions of how to transition into eating, eating this way. Are they exercising, what medications are they're taking, but now I tend not to test the bone turnover markers, unless I've got a patient who's just super anxious and their personality is such they've got to see that number on the test. They need to see it moving. It'll help calm them down. Then I'm happy to do it, but I tend not.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:06
Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:10
Someone asked about calcium hydroxyapatite I think you already mentioned that right? Yes. Okay. This is somebody says I have mast cell activation syndrome. an endocrinologist wants her to start infusions event didn't eat any thoughts?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:28
I'm sorry, could you read that again?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:31
Start infusions of event at the E V E in it. Why a vanity?

Speaker 5  1:48:36
I don't I can't comment. I just don't know.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:39
I'm gonna I'm gonna feign ignorance. Anybody out there? You know?

Speaker 5  1:48:46
I mean, I know vanity but I don't know specifically for M casts right okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:53
Lavender and tea tree oil have estrogenic properties and anti androgenic testosterone like properties? Yes, no, I don't know.

Speaker 5  1:49:07
But I haven't had to have a clinical effect. You got to take pretty high doses to make any clinically relevant.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:12
Do the estrogen metabolites play levels play a role in osteoporosis?

Speaker 5  1:49:18
I don't know. To my knowledge. I've never seen any data on that. I've only seen breast cancer data on those estrogen metabolites. Ie what is it? E four, e two and E four e 16. Those ratios?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:36
Do four and 16 hydroxy?

Unknown Speaker  1:49:40
Yeah, I haven't seen it with osteoporosis.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:43
Okay. So you know four and 16 are the bad guys. Yeah. Who's the good guy? That's where you try to try to get push them down. How do you become a wholesaler for postcode? Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:50:00
you just got on the website at the very top is the link says wholesale just click the button and fill out the application. At the incredible Alison will receive that and review it and make sure we've got to leave first you may should we need to set you up with a wholesale account email you the price

Bill Clearfield  1:50:21
we use correspond with her in any way do we have to call her the incredible Allison.

Speaker 5  1:50:26
You don't have to but I'm sure she'd appreciate it. Yeah, and then we also have quantity discounts automatic 10 and 15% off for 12 bottles. Automatic 10% off wholesale. Any combination of products doesn't have to just be one SKU 5036 or more bottles automatic 15% off. Plus we do sales periodically throughout the year. So make sure to subscribe to our newsletter as well. So

Bill Clearfield  1:50:53
the your flagship product about what is it costs $39

Speaker 5  1:50:58
and change for wholesale 6595 I think it is suggested retail at the moment.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:10
All right. Do you ship to Japan?

Unknown Speaker  1:51:13
I do have one customer in Japan I believe yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:16
Okay, Dr. Belcher, there you go. You could be number two. Have you also asked about the slides? We'll put it on our website and I have your email address. I'll make sure you get them. Okay. That's okay with you, John.

Speaker 5  1:51:31
Oh, yeah, that's great. Yep. Um, feel free. Anybody can. You've got my email I'm happy if anybody wants to email me directly. I'll be happy to hop on a phone call correspond with you by email, provide additional information, do clinical consults with you? You know, whatever can help move this needle on this scary and mistreated and undertreated condition.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:53
Dr. Sanchez says 98% Pure MK four is extremely expensive. Us 10,000 Is that $10,000 per kilogram

Speaker 5  1:52:03
is that so it is extremely expensive. He's right. Fortunately, I am not paying that. Much. But yes, it is extremely.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:37
Any thing else? Dr. Clearfield Are you frozen? I can't tell. Looks like you dropped help. He's back. Here muted. Dr. Clearfield you're muted.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:56
Every week I right at the end of conks out happened again.

Speaker 5  1:53:02
Thanks. I'm looking at the chat. Thank you so much for the the wonderful feedback. I really appreciate it. And if I'm glad this is helpful.

Speaker 5  1:53:22
Oh thank you. Dr. Belcher for the shout out about my book. Appreciate it. I think Dr. Clearfield froze again I'm not quite sure why

Unknown Speaker  1:53:39
Bill's a lightning rod. He's being attacked

Speaker 6  1:53:50
there's another question in the chat box. Can you please comment on cultural digluconate

Speaker 5  1:53:59
You know, it's been so long as I've looked at calcium D glue Krait. I don't know of any adverse effects by it.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:07
But I think if it's reducing, I just don't there's no studies. I don't have any clinical experience with it and looking at estrogen and osteoporosis. So and I can't

Speaker 6  1:54:23
me I asked do you advocate trace minerals.

Speaker 5  1:54:29
So I do in the sense that a lot of people are deficient at least my patient population which is quite self selecting and you know people are quite sick in in nutrients, including trace trace minerals. So but but not for necessarily for directly for osteoporosis. I just think for overall health I mean being on a good multivitamin that has some trace minerals in it is a good insurance policy. Or you can do some testing and do some a wreath recite or RBC minerals tests and see what minerals they may be lacking.

Speaker 6  1:55:09
Yeah, and also Irish Moss, have you tried that? I've never tried it. There's only as 92 of the trace minerals. So and I've seen clinically a great improvement with allergies, where they can go in 24 hours after having one dose of the Irish moss and I assume that's a trace minerals in it that has that effect.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:33
Good to know. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:36
All right. I apologize. I keep cocking out here. That seems to happen every week. So Joe, if you're still on we're going to make you the host so that it doesn't happen, you know, so we don't lose everybody. Can

Speaker 5  1:55:47
I comment on this moron question real quickly? That just was put up there. Yeah. So boron has never been shown to improve bone density or reduce fractures in any clinical trials. There's an animal study that looked at boron and when somebody was deficient in magnesium, you had an increase in urinary calcium excretion, but only when they are deficient in magnesium. And so just this this trend and this this hype, that boron has to be there and it shouldn't be in the supplements. It's just not borne out by the science.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:21
Okay, John, I made you to co host in case I get caught get cut off again. Okay. Joe's out here. Controls Joe there. I don't see Joe here either. So I don't know we keep getting kind of. So we use. We do use boron for patients that have a very high sex hormone binding globulin, with with the usually you know, testosterone levels are are either adequate or they can even be high but patients with very high sex hormone binding globulin a boron is actually a very good three milligrams at bedtime you can go up to nine is very good for reducing that the that the protein binder binding by up to 40 to 50%, usually within two to three months. Yeah, I've heard that. That's great. We've done that for quite a number of years. And everybody on here has heard my male male basic lectures should should, that should ring a bell and you can use it for females 244 estradiol and so sex hormone binding globulin is less. Affinity has a less affinity for estradiol than it does for for testosterone. But as you know, as you should know, testosterone usually is a 98 to 99% bound to protein, when it's bound to protein is inherited doesn't work. So we can have fat today I had I had a patient or adequate testosterone levels in case you don't know we're looking between 30 and 40 for females, and her testosterone level was 35 but our sex hormone binding globulin was 176 which is off the chart. My why that is I really don't know. So that's where we use boron. If you get secondary, you know, better level and you'll get better estrogen levels also so you'll get better estrogen levels, better testosterone levels, so you will get that effect and that will you know, down the road it will affect your bone density better but you know, it's we don't use at least I don't use it for for, you know, that's like a secondary or tertiary effect. As far as I'm concerned.

Speaker 5  1:58:37
I did put born in my joint supplement because there are clinical trials on boron in osteoarthritis showing improved range of motion to improve comfort, good, multiple clinical trials on that.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:53
And again, so So I have a I have a slide somewhere that adequate testosterone levels there's has the decrease in incidence and symptomatology and rheumatoid arthritis by about 20 to 25% with adequate testosterone levels, so again, boron will will improve will lower sex hormone binding globulin and if it's very high, which we do find it seems to be the case with auto immune issues. You'll get an improvement there. So you know we need to you need to kind of connect the dots a little.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:29
That's great information. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:31
Yeah. Okay. Okay, I think that's well, I lost the chat, my chat. So I think that was everything. there anybody else have any comments or questions? So John, before you before you sign off, can you give us real quick you know, patient comes in and their their their mid 50s Or what's our what's our evaluation for osteoporosis? I mean, go right to DEXA scan, do we? Do we do any of the any of these other kinds of screening tests of this anti x that's not a urine test?

Speaker 5  2:00:08
It's urine or serum but I don't I don't like to do bone turnover markers DCT X or P and NP but CT X probably first. So like the US services Preventive Services Task Force does not recommend or recommend screening for osteoporosis with a bone density test for postmenopausal women overseas and women over 65 or postmenopausal women younger than them, does not recommend it for men. Or maybe it's men. Oh, yeah, may or 70. I forget exactly. But I liked the recommendation. It's a little more subtle by the bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation. As a disclaimer on the I'm on the corporate advisory roundtable for that group, but that anybody over 5050 years or older who breaks a bone and that's oftentimes the first sign of osteoporosis that comes to you if they haven't had a bone density test, they need to get one if they haven't had one recently. So that's one thing. It depends on why they're seeing you. I would say if it's any woman who starts to go through menopause if she's Peri menopausal, or even slightly, you know, before that, get a bone density test as a baseline because that'll be something good to track over time. Anybody that's on any of those medications that I mentioned, or any medication that you know, that reduces bone density, that they should, in my opinion, get a bone density test. So those are I think those are the kind of the big categories of when I would want to test.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:42
Okay, what about using a again, having said all that, we have a pretty long waiting list before anybody gets in to see us. So we like to have at least something in hand to so when they get here. I can say okay, well this looks like we have this we have this we have this, that and the other thing. So would it would it be appropriate to do the CTS or an N TX for you know, you know, as like the patients come in the labs are done. That's the way we do it because otherwise they're waiting three months and then I have to wait another three months. So

Speaker 5  2:02:18
yeah, you can but if it's normal, it doesn't it doesn't really give you right, helpful information. Because, you know, there says I the slides that I showed of all the things that interfere with it, you know, it's not necessarily going to give you any helpful info. I wish it were different. I mean, truly, I wish it were a different situation we're in with the technology. So you can you can send them for Well, I don't know if they can order their own bone density. You can order it and have him do it before they get there or not. I mean, that's maybe one option. So I I'm I'm stammering here. I mean, you could do a CBC, and look at the neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio, and see if that's elevated and you can do an intake anyway. And we're in a form that asks about sleep patterns and dietary patterns, medications and all of that and based on on that those inputs, you know, that would be enough for me to say Have the conversation and given their age and everything else that you know about bone health, and okay, and it turns out, there's just not good

Bill Clearfield  2:03:38
I like to have, you know, several screens done ahead of time. So we do ask them if they if they've had these things done that you know, to bring them along. And so we can go over all of that. And

Speaker 5  2:03:52
somebody asked about college and just now in the collagen supplement, so called you taking hydrolyzed collagen has been shown to improve bone density. And as a dietary supplement, there are no fracture outcomes data. So yes, it to me that second line. The first line is the MK four D and calcium. Those osteo K products this first line for me second line supplement would be a collagen supplement. But you can do both. I'm just saying it depends. I mean, how much pills and powders and money are people going to spend on this just depends on how aggressive you want to be. It's nothing wrong with doing both I often do just a matter of where the patients at what's indicated.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:35
Just don't forget that. One night when you take something that don't don't do it a second time especially if there's an antihypertensive component to it then you get up in the middle of the night. And conk out and end up on the disabled list for a couple of weeks. So that was me. Yeah. Well,

Speaker 5  2:04:54
none of a supplement. None of the supplements that I mentioned have the you know, have the at risk to it. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:58
but I know it's what a lot of them do. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Again, everything will be up on aos rd.org I put it in there. Aos er d.org/webinars And also on YouTube, it's Clearfield Medical Group. That's me. All of our videos are on there. You can get them the the slides. I can send to anybody that they want. I'll get the put the slides on the on the website also. I know that I have a translator. It takes down to the transcription and I occasionally get asked to send it to them but somehow there's there's some sort of glitch here and I can't seem to get to it. So I'll try I'll keep trying but I'm not ignoring you. If you've asked for it and you don't get it. It's it's something in that program. So, John, I can't thank you enough. Great as always, and you folks, especially the newer folks that have been here for the last four weeks. I mean, you know, we've learned about MK four, we've learned about you know new iron products we've learned about the first new fatty acid that's been discovered in 90 years. Um, you guys are getting a good stuff here. So like I said, every week, every time I say I'll bring one friend, I will double our census. I think we had about 55 tonight and you know that's pretty much where we've been all summer which is pretty good. So so really happy that our friends in the Philippines we've had the the President of the Philippines was a premier from the premier group from the Philippines. Dr. Lopez was with us and we had the I guess the father of ivermectin in the Philippines. Was Dr. Land G the inland Doritos. So thank you for being with us. And don't be strangers and anybody, any anybody from there that would like to present please let me know. You can get me there's the what happened to this there's there's our there's our website. You can get the the videos and information and you can you can always get me every week. My email is there. Dr. Bill at Dr. Bill nine@gmail.com. I get that right. There's that you can get Dr. New stat at you want to say it again one more time, John.

Speaker 5  2:07:38
Dr. New stat Dr N eu s t a dt at NBI health.com. And I will send it into the into the chat

Speaker 6  2:07:54
was not such a good talker and I went to your site but do you have any of your talks and lectures on YouTube?

Speaker 5  2:08:05
I don't actually that's a good question. I doubt there are a lot of podcasts I've done that are that you can find online. I think I do.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:17
The other two that he's done with us are on YouTube though so you can get those so I think you were there. So. So those those are on there. Okay. So John, again, thank you so much. And somebody writes that your audio book is good and it comes with the PDFs. So that's Dr. Belcher from Japan. Right. You're from Japan. Dhaka Belcher. Is that where you're from? where you're at? Yes. Okay, great.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:45
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:08:46
so bring some friends. Let us let them know we're here every every Tuesday night. It's 5pm Pacific la time What time is it where you are. So okay, Dr. Belcher is in the military. So hats off. And so next week, we actually will have somebody really special next week, not the John's not special. But we have Lisa Lisa Tamati. Who is a one of the top 200 influencer, podcast health health podcasters and health coaches in New Zealand. And she she is an expert in hyperbaric oxygen. She's a long distance athlete and she has a podcast I'll get get the site to you. I was actually on on there on her. On her site. We had an interview. She wanted to talk a little bit about hormone optimization. We ended up talking for two and a half hours and she we didn't get nearly halfway through. So so she will be extremely interesting. So please, you know, bring your friends bring your cat. You know, bring your colleagues and we'll have her on next week. The week after that. We're gonna have Heather Hollis, who I met at the doctor's Aaron's homeopathic conference, and she's going to talk to us about some of the weight loss ideas that she has. So that's the next couple of weeks. Okay. So John, anything how's the medical school?

Speaker 6  2:10:32
Everything's beautiful. And I'm more impressed by this group every week. So when Melvin gets back, we're gonna put our research team together so the expectant, okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:41
All right, great, and so yeah, and I'm also partnering we're going to be partnering with Joseph Krieger. He's at the Boston bio life and they have they have access to CME credits to I don't know what happened to Dr. Colossus connection but that doesn't seem doesn't seem to be panning out anymore. So I'm not sure exactly what happened there. So, okay, everybody, so thank you so much. We'll get everything up as soon as we can. John. Again, great job. Thank you for everything that you do. And we'll send you the video when it's ready. I'll send you the participant list. If you want to reach out to the folks that were on here. Thank you. Thank you so much Akron area when you're gonna get back here already, so Tuesdays aren't the same without you. So So, haha, okay, there we go. So Dr. scenarios in my office on Tuesday, it's making sure like, I know what I'm doing so. So and so far, I think I'm getting about a c plus. So, okay, everybody will, will say goodnight. And we'll talk to everybody next week. Thank you for being with us. Can't thanks. Thank you. And the folks from the Philippines. Thank you so much for being with us. We really appreciate it. And Dr. Belcher from Japan also. So, okay, Goodnight, everybody.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:14
Thank you. Goodnight.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai