Speaker 1  00:18
Anybody there?

Bill Clearfield  00:20
I'm here.

Speaker 1  00:21
Okay, I got connected, I think

Bill Clearfield  00:26
my cameras

Speaker 2  00:27
so

Bill Clearfield  00:32
We had some repairs done.

Speaker 3  00:40
Okay, great, webcam, video.

Bill Clearfield  01:17
All right, I'm not sure why I'm like this, but I am. Can you hear

Speaker 1  01:25
me? I can hear you. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:28
we had, we had a computer repair, and sometimes they mess with things. And I'm not, I'm not the most savvy when it comes to this stuff,

Speaker 1  01:43
you know, I just thought, I have my dog here at work. I better let him out the side.

Bill Clearfield  01:47
Okay, yeah, we have a few minutes, don't I don't

Speaker 1  01:50
want to interrupt during the meeting on Monday, I

Bill Clearfield  02:06
Okay, I understand I'm not seeable, right?

Speaker 2  02:13
Yeah,

Speaker 4  02:13
it looks like it's shining in a wall and it's staying still.

Bill Clearfield  02:17
Well, I'm right in front of it. So

Speaker 4  02:20
do you have the camera covered? Perhaps

Speaker 2  02:24
I

Speaker 4  02:24
did that accidentally once

Bill Clearfield  02:25
I'm looking for it. I don't usually, oh, you know what?

Speaker 3  02:31
It's a pop up. There we go. There

Speaker 1  02:33
we go,

Speaker 4  02:34
yeah, I happened

Bill Clearfield  02:36
to me last

Bill Clearfield  02:36
beginning the laptop has a slider. There we go, yeah. Well, we had a call out, so pat the computer. Guy came and picked the thing up and took it out of here yesterday. So

Speaker 4  02:53
are you fixed? It's

Speaker 2  02:55
right,

Bill Clearfield  02:56
yeah, we had said my, I got a message that my hard drive was full, so I deleted. Said, I deleted the all the downloads, and then nothing worked after that.

Speaker 4  03:12
Oh, gosh, some operating downloads.

Bill Clearfield  03:17
Yeah. So, so I've been operating on my laptop here, you know, which is a lot of you have. I was thinking about you, Jeanette, because you have three screens. I only

Speaker 2  03:30
have

Bill Clearfield  03:30
one, but it's a big one, probably on the lap. I have a 17 inch laptop, and let me tell you, that doesn't cut it. Trying to

Speaker 4  03:37
their screens are great,

Speaker 5  03:39
great.

Speaker 4  03:40
And I could use something as a reference, and this one over here on the left is usually just my mail or my texts. So if I'm working in somebody contacts me all I gotta just look over and the other two are for work,

Speaker 6  03:58
right?

Speaker 4  03:58
It works really well together.

Speaker 1  04:01
Hi, Melvin. He's muted. But

Speaker 7  04:05
Hi, Dr Andrews, how are you

Speaker 1  04:07
okay? How are you

Speaker 7  04:09
pretty good. Were you were in a frame?

Speaker 1  04:12
I was but I did a pre recorded presentation because I didn't want to fly all the way there, and then I ran out of time and didn't show it, but they made it available to everybody that was in the audience.

Speaker 2  04:25
Oh,

Speaker 7  04:25
because I saw your name on the lineup, yeah, I was there, so you were, yeah,

Speaker 1  04:32
yeah. I, I'm not a big fan of a for m,

Bill Clearfield  04:36
all the beautiful people go there. That's why they never invite me. It's

Speaker 1  04:40
actually I used to speak there all the time. I've been a keynote speaker a few times, but I just won't go over those anymore. One reason I was there this year, least online, was because I'm in the X Prize and finalist in the X PRIZE health span, and they had a session on speaking about the X Prize,

Speaker 7  05:03
what is that?

Speaker 1  05:05
It's a contest that Peter diamantes and Tony Robbins and stuff like that are funding where they put this big prize for somebody that can extend health span in humans by a certain amount, by 20% according to cognitive markers, muscle markers, and one other marker I can't remember, and Winner gets $101 million okay, and that's not going To be administered distributed until 2030 but we're a semi, semi finalist, and we just submitted our final application, which was due about a week ago, and they're going to announce who the 10 finalists are on in July of this month, this year.

Bill Clearfield  05:58
Hey, doctor. Doctor narrow, how do we get in on that?

Speaker 7  06:02
I don't know that's that's, sounds like there's a lot of money involved in

Bill Clearfield  06:07
it. We need some product we've been working on for 50 years, like you doctor,

Speaker 1  06:13
nothing, nothing works now. So we're getting it's got to be some new invention that's never been done before. And I don't

Bill Clearfield  06:21
know if you look, look on the internet, on the on the YouTube videos, there's every whatever they're talking about, is the greatest thing since sliced bread?

Speaker 1  06:31
Well, yeah, no, yeah. David Sinclair's cured aging 100 times,

Speaker 2  06:36
right?

Speaker 1  06:36
And everybody, nobody's, nobody's walking around with their aging cured. It's, it's like this whole fields filled with people that are looking to make a buck by convincing everybody they have a cure for aging. You haven't recorded yet, right? Because I know no trouble.

Bill Clearfield  06:57
You know this is nothing new, right?

Speaker 1  07:00
Yeah, wasn't

Bill Clearfield  07:01
it wasn't there a guy in that ended up in what turned out to be Florida in the 1500s it was looking for the fountain of youth. I mean, this is nothing new.

Speaker 1  07:12
It goes back to before Gilgamesh, who is a person who lived 1000s and 1000s of years ago, who wrote a book, or something like that, or somebody wrote a book about him, and he was interested in finding cure for Asian but boy, Cleopatra, all of them,

Bill Clearfield  07:30
here's, here's, here's my, here's my, my creeping dementia. So, so it came to me after I said that. It took me about a minute now to poncedale de Leon,

Speaker 1  07:41
and, you know, I even know where in Florida he thought he found the fountain, and

Bill Clearfield  07:51
wasn't at the Fountain Blue.

Speaker 1  07:53
No, it's actually on the on the west side of Florida Panhandle or on the bottom part of Florida, not the panhandle, but, and

Bill Clearfield  08:02
I'm in circle in Sarasota,

Speaker 8  08:07
that

Bill Clearfield  08:08
wasn't it.

Speaker 1  08:09
It's a harbor, and if I had a map, I could pinpoint it, but I thought it

Bill Clearfield  08:13
was like St Augustine or something. Wasn't

Speaker 1  08:15
No, no. They thought, as a lot of people say, it's St Augustine, also Jacksonville, but it's actually, it's not. It's Oh God. And I know that

Speaker 9  08:28
Safety Harbor

Speaker 1  08:30
say no, I better go to the map and find it. Hold on. But they, they've also identified the place as a blue zone. And, you know, all blue zones are false. They're all, I mean, I was invited to one of them. What's the island, Okinawa? I've been invited by the Minister of Okinawa to speak there three times because they want to. They they know they're not a Blue Zone anymore, and they're trying to get their tourism back. So they wanted me to come there and and make them a blue zone again. How

Bill Clearfield  09:16
do you make a place a Blue Zone?

Speaker 1  09:18
By showing making people live longer. And they thought that if I could come up with a telomerase inducer to make telomeres longer, they could start having people willing to live longer. And to confirm that, would you have to wait at least 100 years? Yeah. Well, what you do is you treat the 100 year olds, right? 110 year olds and then show that they live beyond 20 so, so it's

Speaker 7  09:48
just starting removing the McDonald's or the other hurricanes fast foods that they

Speaker 2  09:55
right.

Speaker 1  09:56
So the place, the place that I was talking about, is Port Charlotte. Okay? And I never noticed this before, before now, but right in the same Bay is Ponce de Leon Park, okay? And I never even saw that before, so I guess somebody else besides me knows that's where Ponce de Leon actually thought he found the phone. Okay, if you go look at the GPS coordinates Park.

Bill Clearfield  10:34
Hi, Bill. It's Joe Krieger, how are you? Well, hey,

Speaker 1  10:37
how are you? I'm glad to see you on this call.

Speaker 5  10:40
Thank you very much. Thanks for inviting me. I'm glad to see you too. Where's my friend? Bill?

Speaker 1  10:45
For those of you that want to go to a really great conference, go to Joseph Kriegers conference. I was blown away. The last time I was there. I'm going to his conference series is called the Boston bio life conference.

Speaker 5  10:59
It's a functional longevity Summit. I've been running conferences for, let's just say, 10 years in life sciences. And they evolve, you know, they went from orthopedics and regenerative and then to functional, and then to esthetics, and then to wellness and cosmetics. And it all circles back at some level to some real root cause phenomenon. And, you know, beauty is a wonderful surrogate for all of us to, you know, aspire to, however, unfortunately, the bolt, you know, the nuts and bolts of inflammation kind of keep everybody in different areas. And sometimes your priorities shift. But what's good for one technically becomes good for the other, and it's a pathway. So we try to, you know, we were, the reason why my meeting Bill thought it was so good was because he was there. And Sonny was there, and they brought so much energy and love and fun to a group. And we all are a bunch of like minded. Bill, it's kind of like the age management group to a point, but we're all stuck together with, you know, food and activities, and we're very much that's the core of what we do and but I'd like to invite everybody here. I'll put together a special Dr Clearfield discount for all of you. Off get fed three times or 20 CV credits. We have two receptions. There's going to be keynote speakers. There's going to be veterans coming. We have some social media with the local media and bill. We're inviting you to also to come to to speak. I had told you before I would invite you. I just, you know, sometimes when you run these things, your hair's on fire. So

Bill Clearfield  12:28
I run conferences. I know all about it.

Speaker 5  12:30
I didn't mean to forget you, but I, you know, I'm glad that we're circling.

Speaker 2  12:33
I

Bill Clearfield  12:33
got a message from sunny about two hours ago. The only thing is, I'm supposed, I'm supposed to be speaking on Saturday morning, that Saturday morning in South Lake. So if I

Speaker 2  12:43
can

Bill Clearfield  12:43
what's there? It's a it's a practice management conference with a group of chiropractors that I work with. There's usually about 60 of

Speaker 5  12:53
them. Oh, well, can you invite them too?

Bill Clearfield  12:55
I can invite them too. Yeah, absolutely. So I'm going to see if I can arrange that. And so I was going to ask Sonny, you know, I got a message from Sonny, do I want

Speaker 5  13:07
to code? You know, once the tents up, you know, every seat that's left open is a missed opportunity. We have people coming from everywhere. I like to have more than, you know, and to just bring a good crowd, because we got great speakers. The vendors are all hungry for relationships and quality relationships. And you know, running a meeting has its own challenges, but if your vendors aren't happy, you're really not right. We know

Bill Clearfield  13:33
about that, don't we? Dr Nerio

Speaker 5  13:36
money for the agenda. And I try not to do that, because the story has got to be told in a way that makes sense if you're, you know, know very little, or you know a lot, and the sequence of things and the you know, having Bill start the meeting is fantastic because he's got such a rich history and trying to figure this out before anyone else really thought about it. So he brings a super unique perspective, and then everyone else kind of fills in with more modern approaches to testing strategies and supplements. And Sonny's got a great supplement line, and they're talking about and post covid, I think is another interesting concept, because people think much differently before now than they did before covid. They just think about things like detox and Spike proteins and epigenetics. They really didn't, and I think they were very reliant on traditional health care. And, you know, God bless traditional health care. But there's a new, you know, movement afoot, and it's patient centric, and patients want to be part of it. So it's personalized, precision, participatory. So all the facets that go into mitochondrial health and detox and inflammation basics and gut health, those are all wonderful topics that bring together, and even people say the same thing a different way. You know, even if you go to other meetings and hear similar stories, and I know, because the orthopedic surgeons never heard about it, and they heard James Laval talk at one of my meetings on orthobiologics, and they said, Who the hell is this guy? What's this inflammation stuff he's talking about? And then they were like, This is brilliant. They were all texting me, who is this guy? I said he was supposed to talk Saturday, but he couldn't. He was supposed to talk Friday. He couldn't make it, so he stuck him in here with you guys, and now he's blowing your mind, because he's talking about inflammation and you know, and arthritis and you know. So what's obvious sometimes isn't to others. And I think that's the beauty of bringing the vendors, together with the scientists, with the doctors, is because over that three day period, we find common ground, whether it's, you know, a hyperbaric oxygen machine or a red light bed or a bracelet or, you know, some botanical compound, people find commonality in the human condition, and I think that's the thing that brings the fellowship. And who knows, we may all be wrong. I heard the blue zones were all bullshit, because they don't record deaths. So they got somebody to the 112 they just they, no one told you that he died eight years ago. So I don't know if that's true, but

Bill Clearfield  16:01
it's like, it's like the politicians, crime statistics, well, if we don't arrest anybody, then there's the

Speaker 5  16:06
correct then you don't know. But anyway, I'll make sure he gets the invitation. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  16:11
yeah, like I said, I'll get in touch with you, or Sonny sent me a message. Do I want to speak there? And I have to, I have to arrange it. I have to do something.

Speaker 5  16:19
But if you want to, we'll figure,

Speaker 2  16:21
I'd

Bill Clearfield  16:21
love to,

Speaker 5  16:22
we'd like to have you, and there's always shifting sand, but what we always have room,

Bill Clearfield  16:26
I'd love to. So, all right, I'll get in touch with you afterwards. So, Dr Nario, are you? Do you have anything for us this week? Or Yes,

Speaker 7  16:36
for sure. Okay, so our league of the Week today would be, it's a, it's a, it's a protein peptide that you probably have heard of. It's called fully stat. So when we talk about muscle preservation integrative medicine, we usually default to protein, creatine and hormones. But there's a more upstream regulator that's getting increased attention now. It's called Full stat. So as a quick refresher, myostatin is a negative regulator of skeletal muscle growth, so fall statin binds to myostatin and prevents it from activating its receptor. So instead of stimulating muscle growth directly, it removes the brakes. And yes, the pathway has been popular in the peptide and performance world for a while, and if you've heard of this doctor, Bill, but it's being out. It's being heard from our my patient base, but it's now quietly moving into a more legitimate medical discussion. So the key to understanding fully statin is recognizing that it exists in a spectrum of potency, so from nutritional modulation to gene therapy. So same pathways, very different magnitude and very different clinical implications. So we're not talking about one intervention here. We're talking about a continuum that ranges from gentle signaling support to rewriting muscle biology. So starting at the again, lowest end of that spectrum, so the 40 Tropin so I think you remember Dr Chris melidis, so he promoted this product to us, and this is an orally derived compound from egg yolks. And we actually have multiple randomized control trials for this in an older adults, averaging 66 years old, about 20 grams per day of this for 21 days increases muscle protein synthesis by 18% in resistance strain. Young men lean mass increase 1.7 kilograms versus 0.6, kilograms of the placebo, even if you're not exercising, if you're immobilized. These are patients who actually had leg surgery. It prevented the rise of circulating myostatin, meaning preserved the muscle, but did actually has some little atrophy. But still, this is not anabolic, as you can see, that in this traditional sense when the study is mentioned, it's better described as an anti catabolic modulation, and, importantly, strong safety profile, no meaningful suppression of FSH, despite its origin from the ovarian follicular fluid, and no reproductive disruption even in mixed or female cohorts. So clinical translation here, low risk, moderate, modest signaling use for sarcopenia recovery in aging patients. So this is the oral one, and this is not going to again, turn your patient into a body builder, but it may help them lose muscle more slowly, which is often the real goal. Now we talked about the real medical application of this, which is called gene therapy. And this is actually a study in a muscle muscular dystrophy patients the chains, the more common one is this is a direct intramuscular injection into the quadriceps. The study has gone through this and actually, the findings improve six minute walk distance for these patients, up to 125 meters additional and muscle hypertrophy on the biopsies that they've done on them, and even reduce the fibrosis and even affects lasting months to over a year, and notably, no serious adverse events in small cohorts. So this is not supplementation, this is Gene level manipulation of muscle physiology. Very different conversation, very different risk tolerance. So the takeaway is here, 40 Tropin, the oral, one mild, safe and anti catabolic. And there's also, yes, a peptide that is per research that you could get out there. But of course, that's still under research, and now the gene therapy, which is being applied to our pathological states, which is very potent, durable and disease focus, so same pathway, complete, different clinical intent, so false. That reminds us that in medicine, we can either gently influence physiology or direct, directly edit the system. So one comes sometimes in a scoop and sometimes one comes in an injection, either way, it's going to be helping all your muscles. So that's our league of the week.

Speaker 10  20:37
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  20:38
thank you.

Speaker 1  20:40
And so, you know, I'm doing full statin gene therapy.

Speaker 7  20:43
Are you? Are vvr,

Speaker 1  20:44
yeah, in fact, I mentioned maybe before you got on that, I'm a semi finalist in the X PRIZE health span thing,

Speaker 2  20:51
and

Speaker 1  20:52
gene therapy of folo statin is one of the things we're doing. I might be the first person that actually made a gene therapy for full of statin. I made it a company called Bio viva, and provided they're on they're on the team too. So

Speaker 7  21:09
yeah. So that's the only one actually that has medical credibility in terms because the other ones are peptides research only. But this one, you're talking about gene therapy, that's really the one that's actually making ground or making traction out there for this?

Speaker 1  21:23
Yeah, and there's a I'm doing. We, the team that I'm on, we're doing three different genes in gene therapy to change a lot of things in the people so

Speaker 7  21:36
work,

Speaker 1  21:37
just luck. Yeah,

Speaker 2  21:38
we're

Speaker 7  21:38
going to hear more of that for sure, during your discussion,

Speaker 1  21:42
not today. I won't talk about policy,

Speaker 7  21:44
not today. Okay, all right,

Speaker 1  21:45
I'm actually the team doesn't want me talking about the X PRIZE thing, because they want to keep everything confidential until after we win.

Bill Clearfield  21:53
We dragged it out. We had to drag it out of you here, right?

Speaker 11  21:56
Keep your Hush.

Speaker 1  22:00
Hush. Is it a start?

Bill Clearfield  22:03
Time for you to start?

Speaker 1  22:04
Okay, let me bring up my slide. I gotta share the screen first. Everyone.

Bill Clearfield  22:08
This is Dr Bill Andrews. He's been a good supporter of us. He was at our conference in December, and he's been on before, and he's got quite a quite a pedigree and a resume. So I'm going to leave it at that. Dr Andrews, I'll let you introduce yourself,

Speaker 1  22:29
okay, but for some reason, I am not seeing it on the share. When I do share, I don't see my presentation. See

Speaker 12  22:42
why don't I

Speaker 1  22:48
see it? I'm going to go to entire screen and see if I can then bring it up that way.

Bill Clearfield  23:01
No excuse. See

Speaker 1  23:03
my presentation now.

Bill Clearfield  23:05
No, I see you. Zoom keeps messing with these things, and they keep adding things, and things don't work. Usually,

Speaker 1  23:12
when I push on share, I see an option to go to one of the files that I have open, and it's not giving me that

Bill Clearfield  23:20
used to, it used to be green down there for me, and now it's not with the share.

Speaker 1  23:31
Let me try clicking on some things that don't look like they're right. See if they take me someplace that might be

Bill Clearfield  23:37
right. I think we got it.

Speaker 12  23:39
I don't think that's my

Bill Clearfield  23:41
your Sierra Sciences, Clearfield group. That's what I'm seeing now. Everybody else seeing that?

Speaker 4  23:49
Yeah, it's just the calendar,

Bill Clearfield  23:50
like a Google Calendar.

Speaker 1  23:52
I think that's you. You're Hold on. Let me see if

Speaker 4  23:56
I gotta be in the top right. So I

Speaker 12  24:00
didn't have this problem last time. Let me see. Now I can't.

Speaker 1  24:09
Okay, who's an expert on this kind of stuff? I've never opened up the you see my what you see the screen where it shows the choices I have for sharing

Bill Clearfield  24:21
right? Right now, right now. All I see, we see is you

Speaker 12  24:24
okay?

Bill Clearfield  24:25
Now, it says sharing. It says join, meeting from join from zoom. And that's not my that's not my screen.

Speaker 5  24:35
Okay? Dr Andrews, when you go to share, it's going to give you options of what to share. Before you pick one, just look at them. Go back. AWS,

Speaker 1  24:49
a

Speaker 5  25:00
take it easy on that.

Speaker 2  25:03
Also

Speaker 5  25:03
Macintosh. That's why.

Speaker 1  25:08
Who's Joe?

Bill Clearfield  25:10
We know he's got a visa bill on his desktop. We couldn't read it though.

Speaker 5  25:16
We couldn't see what was as much as we tried.

Bill Clearfield  25:19
Yeah,

Speaker 1  25:20
this was other screen sharing.

Bill Clearfield  25:22
How much did you spend at Costco last week?

Speaker 1  25:25
Okay, Joseph, I'm back to the screen. Sorry,

Speaker 5  25:28
whatever. All right, so whatever you would, how would you normally open up? Whatever you want to show us in I

Speaker 1  25:34
would see, I would see a thing that says, what kind of like apps I have open, okay, and so I would click on that app,

Speaker 5  25:42
user thumbnails on your desktop.

Speaker 1  25:46
Okay, so

Speaker 5  25:47
where's your PowerPoint presentation?

Speaker 1  25:49
Okay, so right, Mike is my PowerPoint presentation is on my desktop?

Speaker 5  25:54
Do more than okay,

Bill Clearfield  25:57
I've got like, three or four different things. Is it in that life? Night, Bowler,

Speaker 1  26:03
you see something? Let's see,

Speaker 5  26:04
no, I just see you hovering over that, cautiously

Speaker 13  26:08
hovering over, okay, so I see,

Speaker 5  26:10
yeah,

Speaker 1  26:12
so I see this one that says, entire screen. Okay, so if I share my entire screen,

Bill Clearfield  26:18
yeah, we're, we're looking, it looks like your desktop. Bill,

Speaker 1  26:21
you can see that. Okay, so, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  26:23
we'll see it.

Speaker 1  26:26
See I see somebody else's desktop right now. When I see now, I see Sue lebrun's screen. I don't

Speaker 2  26:35
know

Speaker 5  26:35
screen.

Speaker 1  26:38
Let's see that's not my screen.

Speaker 5  26:41
So how is Sue sharing?

Speaker 1  26:44
So I did see something about other people are sharing right now, and do I want to ask them to stop sharing? Maybe that's why I can't see because other people are sharing their screen.

Speaker 5  26:53
Please stop sharing.

Speaker 1  26:54
So everybody, yeah, stop sharing. Maybe that'll solve the problem here.

Speaker 4  26:57
So how can people find out if they're sharing or not like if they did it by accident.

Speaker 5  27:01
He'll make you stop anyway.

Speaker 4  27:04
Sorry. He's

Bill Clearfield  27:05
going to shut down sharing.

Speaker 14  27:07
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  27:08
whether you like it or not,

Speaker 4  27:10
just in case somebody made an error and doesn't know how to tell

Speaker 1  27:14
okay. So I am so right now, okay, I've got three options on top of the share screen. One is saying, look at the Chrome tab. The other one is looking at window, and the other is looking at entire screen.

Speaker 5  27:27
Where is the PowerPoint presentation?

Speaker 1  27:29
It's on my desktop.

Speaker 5  27:31
Okay, so do you want to show the entire screen? Is that the desktop?

Speaker 1  27:34
Yeah, when I went to a tire screen, I opened up somebody else's entire

Speaker 5  27:38
now, because no one else is sharing.

Speaker 1  27:40
Okay, let's try it again.

Speaker 5  27:41
Try that again, and then you should be able to deploy the presentation.

Speaker 1  27:46
It's not like I haven't done this 1000 times.

Bill Clearfield  27:50
We've had issues with this. They did something like the my screen at the bottom there used to be green, and now it's now it's white, and we've been having trouble ever since.

Speaker 1  28:04
Do you see my PowerPoint now?

Bill Clearfield  28:06
No, that's

Speaker 1  28:08
what's on my screen right now. I have it open on my screen,

Bill Clearfield  28:11
all right. Did you go to the share at the bottom?

Speaker 1  28:14
Yeah. So I click on the Share. A window opens up that has three options. One,

Speaker 5  28:21
one should be the PowerPoint. It's a token on your desktop.

Speaker 1  28:24
Yes, not there. That's what I'm used to use this. Okay, so now something has changed, okay, so let me see if this works, because I know I'm seeing Microsoft PowerPoint, but I'd probably be somebody else's. I

Bill Clearfield  28:44
shares

Speaker 1  28:46
you see? Do you see my PowerPoint? Now? Because I did see something.

Speaker 12  29:00
Always just close everything else,

Speaker 2  29:23
settings, those tools we can share.

Speaker 12  29:31
So now I've got

Bill Clearfield  29:32
to share

Speaker 12  29:33
two things open,

Bill Clearfield  29:40
all right, I can, I can make it so that only I can share and then that would, that would shut everybody else off.

Speaker 5  29:46
Do you have his PowerPoint?

Bill Clearfield  29:48
I don't, but what I can do is shut it, make sure everybody else is shut off, and then we'll let him, him back in.

Speaker 5  29:54
We got something

Bill Clearfield  29:57
conclusion Harlequin syndrome is that it

Speaker 1  30:00
Nope.

Bill Clearfield  30:03
That belong to somebody else.

Speaker 1  30:05
Okay, so now I'm opening up kapana Patel screen. Okay, if you could unshare yours, that might be, let me get in.

Speaker 4  30:17
Be crazy. I

Speaker 12  30:20
this.

Bill Clearfield  30:36
All right, Bill, I'm going to stop everybody from sharing. So that's that should stop everybody from sharing right now. And maybe, I mean, one solution would be for you to so do you see something that says homocysteine test, prolactin test? Now

Speaker 1  30:58
I don't wait small print.

Bill Clearfield  31:00
Yeah, that was

Speaker 1  31:02
Homocysteine. Yeah, see that?

Bill Clearfield  31:04
That's, that's okay. So that's my back. That's my desktop. So one solution would be, if you sent me the slides and I can, I can do it, you know,

Speaker 5  31:14
just say next

Bill Clearfield  31:15
slide, yeah,

Speaker 1  31:16
it is so animated, it's going to be a trouble for you, but I'll go ahead and do it right now, and let's

Bill Clearfield  31:27
see open up email so doctrbl Nine at Gmail.

Speaker 5  31:35
You're a Ted Williams fan. I

Bill Clearfield  31:43
I'm not sure why. You know, like I said, we've been having trouble with the we've been having trouble with it. You all still seeing my screen?

Speaker 4  31:55
Yeah, I see you.

Speaker 1  32:19
I just emailed it to you, hold on, I got it. I got a message here. So now I've emailed it to

Speaker 2  32:25
you. You

Speaker 1  32:32
aren't going to like how much animation I have and how often you're going to have to push next screen. One thing I've ever tried this before with more of my animator

Bill Clearfield  32:44
Well, we've done it a couple times, but I'm not sure exactly why, the why it's doing what it's doing, but it's been this way for a couple of weeks. I'll have to, I'll have to work out the go to zoom, zoom settings, or something, something, something flipped. I haven't gotten it yet.

Speaker 1  33:04
See if it's in my Sent folder. And I could probably do this presentation without a slide, PowerPoint. Well,

Bill Clearfield  33:15
if you want to, if you want to start there, and when I get it, I'll pull it up. Okay, okay,

Speaker 1  33:22
well, let me just check my Sent folder first make certain that it did get sent to you. Because,

Bill Clearfield  33:31
okay, I got it

Speaker 1  33:33
Okay, so I'm gonna close my email now and

Speaker 12  33:40
close my presentation on my screen.

Speaker 1  33:47
Okay, you want to go ahead and open yours.

Speaker 12  33:52
Do?

Speaker 15  34:10
They're having smoke.

Bill Clearfield  34:14
Okay, you see it now,

Speaker 1  34:17
I don't see my presentation. No. Oh, that now I do. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  34:22
okay,

Speaker 1  34:24
all right, go back. Go back a slide.

Bill Clearfield  34:27
Yeah, easier said than done.

Speaker 3  34:33
Hold on.

Speaker 1  34:37
Left arrow. I have a feeling Bill's Clearfield, so there's two Bill's here, so we got to be really careful about Okay, so just two days ago, yeah, let me, let me get started. More behind time already. We're half an hour thing. Okay, so just two days ago, Dr Clearfield sent me this picture, saying, this is essentially the announcement my talk. And I didn't know that this was something he wanted me to talk about. So I just threw a bunch of slides together here at the beginning about,

Bill Clearfield  35:11
like,

Speaker 1  35:12
what aging is, what

Bill Clearfield  35:13
we wanted. We wanted you. I just had to put some sort of topic in or other that otherwise Dr Krieger and Dr Naria wouldn't have showed up. So

Speaker 1  35:21
this is this is a picture from when I was featured in Popular Science Magazine.

Speaker 2  35:25
Thought

Speaker 1  35:26
it

Bill Clearfield  35:27
was pretty cool.

Speaker 1  35:28
I was shocked. I was blown away. I remember when the magazine was coming out, and I was in the airport, walking down towards my flight, and I walked by a convenience store, and I saw my picture inside the store, and that was it. I was, like, really shocked, because I had no idea they were going to edit my picture like that. But Okay, so let me so I want to start off with just because of the fact that last time, by the way, a lot of you hopefully saw me talk three months ago here for the same group, and so I'm going to try not to duplicate a lot of that stuff, but in a minute, I'll show you how to get to a video of that presentation so you can hear about that. That was a two hour presentation, and I have so much to talk about, I could spend like, 10 hours talking so I'm going to try not to overlap too much here, but let me just go to go to the next slide because, because I talked about it the last meeting about aging is a disease. I consider aging a disease, but I didn't want to spend a lot of time doing it. But now that Dr Clearfield sent this thing about me speaking on Aging, I thought I'd just throw these in, but it's a big like, the question about, is aging a disease? It's a big tug of war. Okay, there's people that say yes, people say no, and that's this is mostly the FDA versus research scientists that want to get funding for research. Go to the next slide. It actually be just animated, but, yeah. So, so, so so no, so you went too far. So, so this is why you doing the buttons are going to be hard. You don't want to push the button until I say, push the button, but you've already gone, like, four slides too far forward.

Bill Clearfield  37:13
Then there's a little little arrow. There's a little thing right, right on the where to go to click it back so I can't even slide three. I think

Speaker 1  37:29
we can stay there. I mean, it's like,

Bill Clearfield  37:32
okay.

Speaker 1  37:32
Point the point where I was trying to say in this one is that there's a lot of definitions of aging, but one of them is the one that's the toughest to deal with, is that any anything that's different from normal that affects human life is considered like a disease. Okay? And so the problem is, is that aging is normal, so we can't call it a disease, according to the FDA and other groups, because it is not different from normal. Okay, so what I wanted to point out was that there's, you know, one of the things that humans have is our cells can only divide a limited number of times. And that's something that I discussed at our last meeting three months ago, and I discussed why, and all that kind of stuff. But the fact is that lobsters, Tortoises, humpback whales, clams and some fish and some birds don't have this problem. They their cells will divide limited number of times. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying there's a lot of microorganisms too, that could come out of this heading. But I'm trying to focus just on life forms that are that reproduce sexually. Also are not made up of a colony of cells that when you can separate them into two halves, they can each grow into a organism. So so the life the organism depends on the whole all the cells of the body, not just some of them. So when we look into those categories, there are animals that don't have the problems that humans do okay, and the only animals that do have the problems that humans do are other primates, dogs, cats, horses, sheep, pig and deer. All the other animals have an entirely different aging process. So it's like aging is considered normal within our species, but it's not considered normal throughout all species or among species. Okay, so one of the things that humans, as I said, our cells, can only divide a limited number of times. Animals on the right don't have this problem. We cannot we so when our when we when our limit runs out, when our cells are divided a limit, the limited number of times our cells can no longer continue to repair our wear and tear, and that's how we repair most of our wear and tear is by cell division. When a cell gets damaged, we will kick that cell out of the way, by having another cell divide that replaces that cell. But the key is that, because our cells can only divide a limited number of times, every time some cell has to divide to replace that kill cell that accelerates the aging process. Okay, because it's, you know, Telomerase biology, and I'll get back to that in a minute. Telomeres are things that give us that limited number of times that our cells can divide. Okay, so we cannot repair our wear and tear once we reach our limit. The reason why we have this limit is because our Telomerase gene is shut off, and that's not true in lobsters, Tortoises, hAMK, whales, clams and some birds and fish. And as a result, when the Telomerase gene gets shut off, our Telomerase get shorter every time the cells divide. And as a result, we age. And I'll explain a little bit more about that in the slides that I was originally just going to show before I added these slides. Go to the next slide. So you're actually not showing my animation, my and go ahead, there is some animation, but

Speaker 2  41:10
not all

Bill Clearfield  41:11
getting not true. There we go.

Speaker 1  41:13
Okay, so, so the other thing about aging, the FDA will tell you, is that aging isn't measurable, and you know what? They're right? Because we have no way of measuring aging. We and especially, the only way to really measure aging is to actually reverse it. And since nobody's ever reversed it, we can't measure it yet. You can't measure the slowing down of aging, because aging isn't a constant rate thing, it's changing all the time. We go through big jumps in terms of our aging. So if you, if you want to measure your aging by some marker biomarker, for six months and then take some treatment and then measure it again for another six months, you might find out you got older or younger, but just completely random, because it's not a linear function in humans. Okay, so aging isn't measurable. Go to the next slide. Now, there are a lot of biomarkers of aging, and this is shown. A lot of them. Hand grip is one of my favorites, hand HN, grip strength. But go to the next slide. Let's see if the animation works here. It's just a little slow. Okay, so, yeah. So we're going to have lots of trouble in this presentation because of the animation is not working. But those, all those letters are supposed to now line up and do big letters, but these are for the most common age biomarkers that exist right now. And the key is that, yes, they are biomarkers of aging because they correlate with aging, but if you reverse those biomarkers, that doesn't mean you reversed aging. It only means you reverse the biomarker. And you know, a lot of people aren't going to walk into your offices and say, I want to have my aging cured, meaning I want to go back to looking, feeling and behaving like I was 25 again, because that would be considered kind of like grounds for going to a looney farm. But everybody actually dreams of that. Okay? And so what, you know, because of my field, I get, I talked to a lot of people that say, yeah, they would love they really want to go back to it, and they want somebody to find a way to do that, to go back to being, feeling, looking and behaving. 25 okay, so we can't measure aging. And so go to the next slide. See, I'm not sure what's going to happen here, but we can't. We do know when we look at Betty White, when she was 25 and when she was 85 we know which photo was taken first. Okay? And it's, it's like, it's not measurable. We can't put a handle on it. But do we need to measure we don't need to measure it, because we all know. And so if somebody could come up with some way of turning the picture on the right to the picture on the left in real life with Betty Wyburn, sorry, she's passed away, it would have been great to have her be the person that walked out on stage someday and look 25 again, look, feel and behave. And when that happened, there'd be no questions. Nobody's going to say, Yeah, where's the data, where's the measurement? They're going to know that that's saying. So maybe we can't measure it, but we don't need to measure it to know it when we actually succeed at doing it. And so reversing aging is really the only way we're ever going to get to a point of actually knowing what aging is or like, is it a disease or not? Okay, so, go to the next slide. So that's aging. Go to the next one that's reversing aging. That's the Betty White test. I call it. Go to the next slide. Okay, so, so, so, how can we how can this side we're saying aging is disease. How can they win? Okay, and so this is something that I've spoken about at many conferences, including a for M and A energy. Go to the next slide, because I have to agree with the FDA. You know, aging isn't measurable. It is normal in our species, and so it's going to be really hard. So so instead of like so the way to actually show that it's the disease is to actually cure aging. Okay, but use the Betty Wyburn test as a measurement to do so, okay, go to the next slide. So we measure we start off by having the investigational treatment, and that can be a therapy, a pill or nutraceutical, whatever, but we test it on an aging related disease. If we think we have something that can actually reverse aging, turn like Betty Wyburn, from an 85 to a 25 we test it on not aging. We test it on like Alzheimer's or dementia of some kind or some other kind of biomarker. And then we also, at the same time, monitor the Betty White test. Go to the next slide. So monitor the best. And when we all see somebody like Betty White walk out on stage, and we all know, there's no question about it, we now have a measurement of aging, because whatever the therapy that we use, a treatment that we used, had to measure something else, and that measurement is actually now going to be bonafide measurement of aging, because it actually did cause reversal of aging. And when we actually do have people walking around that are 85 years old, looking, feeling, behaving 25 again, people are going to say, well, then we're not going to be everything. It's not going to be normal. There's going to be some people that have the disease and some that don't. So we can call it a cure. Those PEF, you know, Betty White there and others were cured. And everybody is going to say aging is a disease. Okay? So I always say, when we cure aging, everybody will call aging a disease, and maybe we can do that faster than we'll ever get the FDA to agree that aging is a disease. Okay, so that's, that's all I had. Now I wanted to get back onto the presentation I had originally just planned. I just threw those slides in for because of Bill clearfield's post. Go to the next slide. Okay, so at the at the last time, I talked about the what, the why and the how, and a little bit of a how, how, not of aging. And today I'm going to talk about mostly on just how not of the how, not of age, and how not to age. And I'm going to do something that I never, ever do, and that's I'm going to market some products. Okay, you'll this will be a first, because I'm oftentimes heard on stage saying, I do not market products or anything like that, but I do believe in the company that I'm going to talk about today, I do believe they have a lot of products that really are good at helping with maintaining healthy Telomeres. Okay, so, so go to the next slide, because those people that want to miss my last talk, they can go to my website. This is so just this, www, dot. Sierra side, calm, I thought, I thought I had that on here, but go to the next slide, because it's going to scroll down. It's not working. Okay. So, yeah, go back. Well, what if the animation was working correctly. Here you would see that that the website would have scroll, and then you would see in a red circle around the button that takes you to all the videos that I have. And one of those videos is the video of me speaking three months ago to your group. And so the bottom line is, I'm going to skip a lot of what I said last time, just get to the point. Telomeres are at the tips of our chromosomes. They are equivalent to ride tickets or amusement park at an amusement park, every time our cells divide, we lose a ticket. That's why our cells are limited. We're born with 100 tickets. We lose a ticket like every two and a half years, or on average, because before we were actually born, we lose in a much faster rate. But when we lose our last ticket, we ourselves can no longer function, and we die. Okay, and so that that is put a limit of when we do the math on Telomerase shortening, and the rate of Telomerase shortening occurs because it's all dependent on the rate of cell division. You have to have a basal level rate of cell division, because the example I like best is like when blood's thrown flowing through your blood vessels, you have a pretty much consistent wear rate of wear and tear stripping off endothelial cells and stuff like that. And that's okay, because you have other cells that can divide and replace those endothelial cells. But every time that happens, you lose a Telomere. That rate of wear and tear in our blood vessels is pretty standard, okay? And so when we measure that and then measure the rate that we lose Telomeres, that tells us that we have this theoretical maximum of 125 years. I hope the next link where click this slide again, let's see not every slide is showing, yeah. Okay, good. So wow, this is so Steven distorted. Okay, so this, this is actually corroborates with other studies that didn't use anything to do with Telomerase. Telomerase shortening rates or rates of cell division. They use demographic studies and population studies and statistical theory, and they came up with the same exact number they came up with that humans have a theoretical maximum of 125 years. So that's pretty good. That that's pretty good that they had no in those other studies. They had no idea why, but Telomere shortening and biology has been the first thing that actually explains it okay, because it comes up with the exact same number, 125 years. And for those of you that think that John Calment is a woman who supposedly lived to be 122 it's now known that she actually was replaced by her daughter who was trying to avoid paying inheritance tax, and so she pretended to be her mother, and she didn't really live to be 122 both of them, both of them together, didn't even look yeah, maybe both of them had it together, live to be 122 there, of course, two there. Of course, there was overlap, but nobody has actually lived to be 120 and that's because we all accelerate our rate of Telomerase shortening by poor lifestyle choices and poor genetics. Okay? And so none of us that nobody's ever lived to be 125 and far as I'm concerned, when somebody does live healthy longer than 125 even live unhealthy longer 25 we will have that's when, when I'll say that we have cured aging. But I hope somebody passes the Betty Wyburn test at the same time they go to the next slide. Okay, so, so that, that what I just showed is, tells us that we put a limit on our lifespan. Okay, that's why there's a limit on our lifespan, but it doesn't really explain why we see the all the changes that we see in all of us as we age. Okay, we can look at all the pictures on this screen right now, we just attending this talk, and we can see we can estimate a person's age because we know that there's some synchrony to the way all of us age. Okay, and this is going to be explained by the fact that Telomeres, not only do they limit our lifespan, they also have the, yes, they have all the hallmarks of what are called enhancer sequences. Before I explain that, let me just say here's five references, and I'm just using the PubMed references instead of the whole reference thing. And I know people can't write these things down, but everybody will have this. These PowerPoint presentations available at anybody. You can click on these links and go to the publications when you get them. But all these publications have shown that Telomeres have all the hallmarks of what are called enhancer sequences. Okay, so what is an enhancer sequence? Let's see if these animation work here. Okay, go ahead and click to the next slide. That black bar that you see below the links, that's that's a genome, the DNA, the nuclear DNA. Can you try clicking again to go forward, I want to show it. There's going to be some animation here on that line. Is it not working? All right. Okay, so good. Okay, so on the on a chromosome you're going to there's going to be a gene, click it again. Go to the next there's every gene is controlled by a promoter that turns the gene on or off. I like to refer to them as dimmer switches, because a lot of time I speak to non professional doctors and scientists audiences, okay, and then go to the next slide, or next so upstream in the one one of the main ways that genes are regulated in humans is that there will be something called an enhancer sequence that can be way upstream. Go to the next slide, and I'm demonstrating that this is way upstream, 1000s, hundreds of 1000s, sometimes of bases away from the gene shown by the dots, dashes, okay, so, so this enhancer sequence is a long ways away. Okay, go to the next slide. And so this hAMK sequence has an ability to regulate that dimmer switch or that promoter by actually the DNA folding over go to the next slide, proteins will bind to the enhancer and bind to the promoter and cause that gene to turn on. And if this was animated, you see that blue arrow going right to left, back and forth, but it's not doing it, okay? So that's what an enhancer sequence is, and that is really, really common in my last talk, when I talked three months ago, I explained that enhancer sequences are so vague that they're just about anything. There's almost all DNA plays roles of enhancer sequences, okay, but what is really most notable go to the next slide is that Telomeres okay. Go to the next slide. Telomeres actually have more hallmarks of a of being enhancer sequences in most DNAs that that exist, that are real enhancer sequences. Okay? So now the Telomere will fold over. Go to the next slide and turn the gene on. Go to the next slide, just like the regular enhancers. Do it so Telomerase. So I showed you, I think, several links to show that this is actually something that a lot of people have now seen. I've been I've known this for 30 plus years, because I've been studying gene expression. And when I first started studying Telomeres, I recognized right away that it has all the hallmarks of enhancer sequence. Okay, so now the thing is that as Telomeres get shorter, they are less capable of actually acting as enhancer sequences, which distinguishes them then distinguishes them from regular enhancer sequences. Go to the next slide. Okay, so this is out of my second or third book. I forget, but this is again, okay. So we got the Telomeres showing up in the top right. We've got a Telomere, and then we have three different genes, two of them are turned off and one is turned on. Okay. Go to the next slide. Okay, so the Telomerase folds over and turns that gene that's on to off. Okay, go to the next slide. And then it also can turn the second gene that was off. It can turn that on. It has the ability to do both. Okay, go to the next slide. But when Telomerase gets short, they can't do it anymore. Okay? They can't reach as far and stuff, and so it affects the the epigenetics, okay, so the one thing, so if I was to talk about what aging is, I would say the one and true thing about what aging is, it's a change in our epigenetics that is associated with aging. Okay, so, so when we when we age, I like 3040, years ago, I was doing studies of looking at gene expression from cells from old people versus young people, and I could put together great little ball, and there's I even published it on papers published back in the 1990s where I showed that that I could devise an epigenetic profile of an old versus young person, and then later I was able to show that I could reverse those things by lengthening shortening Telomeres of Human cells and petri dishes by Gene therapy of Telomerase. Okay, so go to the next slide. Okay, so that this is pretty much this ability of Telomeres to act as enhancer sequence explains why we see the changes that we see in all of us as we age. And I want to point this is not a theory. This is a fact. Even if there was other things going on, we know for a fact that the Telomeres do play a role in turning genes on and off, and they change with Telomerase. Their ability to do it changes with Telomerase. There might be other things that are going on, but we do know that Telomeres definitely played this role. Okay, go to the next slide. All right. And just bottom line is, no matter what else we do to cure aging, aging will never be cured unless we also solve this Telomerase shortening problem. Okay, so everybody's when I speak to audience, everybody's saying, Yeah, what about mitochondria dysfunction, oxidative stress, all these other things that cause aging. It might all be true and even but if we solve those problems, we still have the Telomerase shortening problem, and we have to solve that problem because that's the one and only absolute control of aging that exists that we have to that we have to do something about what we can never solve aging. Okay, so go to the next slide. All right. So how do we solve it? And this is where I'm going to start getting into some marketing, because I can't do it without talking about some of the products. But we first realized that if every time a cell divide divided, Telomeres got shorter. How is it that our children are born with longer Telomeres than we have? And so we started with the idea back in the 1990s that there must be something in our reproductive cells, the primordial germ cells that prevent Telomerase shortening in our reproductive cells, the cells that produce our sperm and our eggs. So we did the research, and we discovered, go to the next slide. We discovered this enzyme called Telomerase that exists inside of only our reproductive cells. This is the green squiggly thing. Is the DNA. Telomeres made up of DNA, just like the rest of the chromosome is so specific sequence of TTA, GG, repeats. Okay. Now Telomerase is like shown as a factory here. It binds to the tip of the chromosome of the Telomerase and it Lengthens it Okay, so go to the next slide. Okay, so Telomerase, shortening and lengthening is like a tug of war. I use this tug of war analogy for practically everything. It's amazing how much everything in biology and science and everything is a tug of war, even in politics and the FDA. But click on the next

Speaker 2  1:01:09
one.

Speaker 1  1:01:10
Okay, so, so I'm blowing up a Telomere here. So the Telomeres that little orange thing at the tip of the chromosomes, but now I've expanded it. Go to the next slide. The shortening and Lengthens is like a tug of war, okay? And so the animation here would show in the next slide that you'll see the tug of war people moving back and forth. Go ahead, keep keep going, and click one more time. So the only way to lengthen Telomeres is with the enzyme Telomerase. Okay, there's lots of things that are shorter but in so in all of our other cells, we only have shorteners. And if you want to know why we don't have Telomerase in all of our other cells, watch one of my other videos called several videos on why we age, the evolutionary reason why we never evolved a way not to age when it's so bad for us. Same reason is why we never evolved away, not to get cancer, heart disease, inflammation, dementia, things like that. There's there's a it's a beneficial to the survival of the species to eliminate the longer lived, meaning the longer lived or anybody that has already raised their young. And it's also an explanation of why women live longer than men in 95% of all mammalian species, is because women are more important to raising young than men are. Okay, but it's getting off subject there. But the point is that in all of our cells, we have shut off the Telomerase gene. And the reason it happens not if evolution is not a force, it's just a result, but it the reason it resulted that way is because it was a great way to eliminate the longer lived so that the offspring could reproduce. But okay, so if the animation worked, you would see those people all pull in to shorten the Telomeres to nothing. Okay, go to the next slide, and this is where I start marketing. Okay, so what I want you to notice is that there's, I think, eight, eight people, they're pulling to shorten your Telomeres. Okay? This, this is a product that I am a really big fan of. Okay, it's sold by Touchstone essentials. I'm Sonny Wynn. Will talk more about the products in specific, but I'm going to talk about the benefits to Telomeres in terms of these products. And this is why I like these products. Okay, so Gluco control is a product that actually converts sugar into fiber. Sugar is bad for you. It induces inflammation and oxidative stress. But when you take something like Gluco control to convert that sugar into fiber, which you know fiber is good for you, you lose somebody pulling on the SHORTENERS side. So hopefully this works. Click, click the next slide, see if the far left person disappeared. Yeah, great. Okay, so that person disappears if you take something like Gluco control, so you have less people pulling to shorten your Telomeres, okay, which I call, actually accelerated Telomerase. Okay, go to the next slide we're going to go through. Okay, this is, this is another product I really like. It's called, it's called pure body and pure body extra. But they contain molecules called zeolites, which are really good at binding to heavy metals and removing them from your body, and not just heavy model metals, but other kind of toxins too. So this is something that, again, will remove somebody from the left side of the tug of war, and go ahead and let's remove that person now. Okay, go to the next slide. Okay, so I like Touchstone because they have an array of products that nobody else has. I mean, you'll find some other companies that have some of these products, but nobody has all these products. And they all, I've been just blown away by the fact that they really all play a role in Telomere biology. And so when I first so I first heard about Touchstone essentials, because they contacted me and asked me if they could, they wanted to create a product for lengthening Telomeres, and did I have anything that they could, that I could provide them? And I said, so I told them, you'll see later. I told them what to do, but they've been so focused Touchstone essentials, headed by Eddie stone, who's the founder and CEO. He's very interested in extending and making people happier and healthier, and not so much into profits, which, you know, it's they don't make a lot of money, but they do have a lot of great products. Okay, so, so Fulvic is the active ingredient in shiloji A lot of people. I've known about Shilajit forever, because it's great, anti inflammatory, but it's just dirt from the Himalayas and has lots of side effects. Okay, Fulvic is the Fulvic acid is purified from the Shilajit, and so, as a result, removes another person from the left side of the tug of war, and he advanced the slide and remove the next person we can go to. Next thing. Okay, so another product is called parashield. Is this is a product that gets rid of parasites and stuff like that. There's one exceptionally good molecule in there called wyburnwood that actually I've done a lot of do deals. I do what I call critical meta analysis of peer review studies, a lot to really find out if products are real or not real. Are they fake? Are they just pretending? And I think this is a really great product, okay, as a result of my critical meta analysis with peer review studies and anybody interested, I do have a podcast called up one where I do critical meta analysis of peer reviewed studies to explain to audiences what's actually real and what's not real. And I never market anything. This is a first for me to market these products. Okay, so, and Bill Clearfield told me that this is not a CME conference today, so I'm taking advantage of that. Okay, so, so parashield Again, we'll get rid of parasites. Parasites are very unhealthy, cause lots of damage to cells, and when you get damage to cells, you have to divide other cells to place them, and that causes Telomerase shorting. Go to the next slide.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:12
Can I just make an anecdotal comment? Bill? I don't mean to interrupt you, but

Speaker 1  1:07:17
go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:17
My daughter was in Kenya for many, for five years, and she contracted a severe case of malaria, she had hepatitis, she had pneumonia. She was in the ICU in in Nairobi Hospital, which is quite the place. And she was there for a week before I even knew about it. And when I got there, I went and I got Wormwood artesuma. That's the Did I say it right? I got, I got, I got Wormwood for I gave it to her for a day and a half, and the mother area was cleared.

Speaker 2  1:07:51
Wow. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:07:54
I've read a tons of peer reviewed from PubMed, peer reviewed studies on Wormwood, and I know that whenever you do a whole like meta analysis, you're going to find some say one thing, some say another I do is critical meta analysis, which means I look at the data analysis, I look at the experimental design, I look at this statistical theory and all this kind of stuff. And can, after I get done, there's only one pile, and that says Wyburn works. Okay, so, so now I'm showing a bunch of products. Natocleur is a product. I'm not going to go into a lot of details, but I think Sunny will after I get done here. So natocleur Click, there's going to be like five products I'm just going to show in a row now, super greens. It's got vitamin D. Wellspring has omega threes. It has turmeric. These are all great antioxidants, anti inflammatories. These things are really great. Nano clear has things in it that help get rid of, like decrease the rate of cardiovascular disease by inhibiting, by degrading, plasminogen activator inhibitor. Those of you know I'm actually one of the inventors of tissue plasminogen activator. And so that probably wouldn't have been necessary if we didn't have this other molecule called plasminogen activator inhibitor floating around inhibiting tissue plasminogen activator. Okay, and so we probably our rated heart attacks would be plummeted a lot lower than they are now, okay, but these products, again, will remove somebody from the side of the tug of war. I think you already moved that person. Go to the next slide. Then, you know, a lot of companies have these products. But one thing I like about Touchstone Essentials is the quality. I mean, I was shocked when they when they actually started marketing the next product I'm going to show, but don't show it yet, because their standards for how much lead can be in the product and how much contaminants and other things was beyond anything I'd ever seen before. California has this proposition 65 and Touchstone goes way beyond the rules of proposition 65 for how much contaminants they'll have in their foods. So I consider these to be the best protein fibers and Supergreens juice. And Sunny will talk more about Supergreens juice, but go to the next slide. We get rid of one more person. Okay, so now go to the next slide. We, we, you know, didn't show everything here, but what I have been all about is adding people to the other side of the tug of war. How can we induce the production of Telomerase to actually make it even better? Now we have come up with things that will add like one person to the right side of the tug of war. We haven't won the tug of war yet with neuritisceuticals we have with gene therapies. Okay? Gene therapies are in clinical studies right now. They're extremely expensive and there's a lot of risk to them, but at least they're going to provide us with some proof of concepts, because my goal is to continue doing my research to get even more people than we have now on the right side of the tug of war. Okay, and so this product, go to the next slide we should see. So Telomerase is the only way to do is so we induce Telomerase. Go to the next slide. This is what Touchstone essentials created out of the discoveries that I had made. I had, you know, I had tested over a million different molecules with our high throughput robotic screen acid. We have these robots that would just test different molecules, neuritisuticals, things like that. We tested so of all the molecules, 600,000 of those were fractions of plant extracts. Okay, we don't do whole plant extracts because there's too many molecules in there, even if you did have an activator, something else is going to inhibit it. So we would fractionate plant extracts into molecules of size, charge, solubility, etc. And so we tested 600,000 different fractions, and we only found 50 out of all 600,000 that actually would induce the production of Telomerase in human cells. And Touchstone essentials took those and mixed the top five into Telomerase. And reason why they included five is because of possibility of synergy. Okay, and that product is called Telomerase. And long story short, this is the best nutraceutical on the planet right now for inducing Telomerase expression in human cells to lengthen Telomerase go to the next slide. And so the fact that it doesn't win this tug of war is a good thing, but it's still a good thing there, because it slows down the rate of the shorting. Okay, but it turns out that from lots of other studies, mostly gene therapy studies that we've done, and not just us, but other other labs have done and published, that it turns out when Telomeres get critically short, they become easier to lengthen. And that's a reference in the red box that's kind of like hard to read there, because didn't work the way it does on my computer, but that's a reference that showing that Telomerase preferentially Lengthens the shortest Telomeres. Okay, go to the next slide, because why is that? And so what I do is I explain that Telomeres are not linear, like the way I show it in the left hand side of this picture. It's actually like a ball of yarn, and the tip of the Telomeres actually buried inside of that polygon. And so when you produce Telomerase, if your Telomeres are really long, Telomerase can't get to the tip of the Telomerase very easily. And so it's very inefficient. It Lengthens it because it has to first bind to the tip of the chromosome. But when tip of the Telomerase, when Telomeres get critically short. Go to the next slide. Okay, so that's so that just says. What I just said? I thought I cut that out. Okay, go to the next slide. Okay. When Telomeres get really short, then the ball of yarn is much smaller, if not, if it's not existent at all, it Telomerase can bind to that tip and then lengthen it. And that's why the shortest Telomeres preferentially get Lengthened. And so that's why we are actually seeing, and I know some people on this call are actually some of the people I'm going to talk about that Sunny will probably talk about that, that actually are seeing some surprising age reversal from Telomerase when Telomerase not supposed to be potent enough to lengthen Telomeres. Okay, so, but it possibly is because they have a lot of critically short Telomeres. Go to the next slide. Okay. I don't know what that explanation mark means, but this is, this is supposed to be a graph where I show that we have tested a whole lot of different things, a lot a lot of every there's a lot of products out there that claim to lengthen Telomeres Okay, and the only way to lengthen Telomeres is to induce Telomerase expression. So what this graph that you can't see shows is that we have tested every single product, and I didn't. I call them product A, Product B, product C, but because I don't want to mention their names, because I don't want cease and desist letters coming to me, but none of them, not a single product that we can find actually induces the expression of Telomerase. And then some of these things that you can't see. We've tested all the lifestyle things. There's published lifestyles that were Lengthened your Telomeres or these or decrease the rate of their shorting by putting people on the right side of the tug of war. There's also products that claim that particular diets would do it. And then there's therapies you can you can go to all over the place you can find chambers, you can get into boxes, you can get into things expose yourself to certain wavelengths of things like that, they claim to lengthen Telomeres, but none of them actually induce the production of Telomerase. And we've tested every one of these things in our high throughput robotic screening assays. And we've talked to the people that market these things and told them and asked them to explain why they think it works, and I'll come to that in a few minutes. But on the right side of this graph that you can't see, I show that the five ingredients in televital, all in do induce Telomerase. So the only ones that do, and the most potent one, because you can't see it, is actually turmeric, but it's a fraction of turmeric that is missing curcumin. Now we we have shown that curcumin isn't an inhibitor of whatever activity is in turmeric that's making it it's just accidentally missing. So I recommend people still get their turmeric and curcumin elsewhere. And it turns out, Wellspring, which is one of the products that Touchstone has, does have that product. Okay, so I don't remember the other ones. Sunny probably knows them better. I'm I'm an expert in Telomere biology. I'm not an expert in plant extracts. Okay? We just screen them. And usually when we screen them, we we do it completely blind, so we don't know what they are until after we we the vendor who's going to market the products, or who has provided us with the natural products to test tells us what they are. Okay? So go to the next slide, see what happens. I don't know. Oh, so what do you know this is gonna Okay? So this is brand A, brand B, A, no Telomerase expression at all. Go to the next one diet, go to the next one lifestyle. Except for including, what does that say? Oh, yeah. There's a lot of psychological studies published that you can lengthen Telomeres. None of them actually do therapies. The only exception there is gene therapy. Gene therapy does lengthen Telomeres, but it doesn't induce Telomerase. It actually delivers a new gene that's already induced. Okay, so that's so but gene therapy is the only other thing, and it's, as I said, expensive and risky. It's in clinical studies right now. And then go to the next slide. This shows now. Now you can see all the different ingredients. And so go to the next slide, because I bet you they show the bars aren't Prolactin show, but those are showing the numbers of how potent each one is. And what that's those numbers actually mean is the number of mRNAs that encode the Telomerase protein component, the number of mRNAs that are found per cell. So turmeric produces 27 mRNAs per cell. This fraction that's missing curcumin design. The other ones aren't as strong, but they're still stronger than the next best thing on the planet, which doesn't really exist anymore because the company discontinued it because the profit margin wasn't high enough. Okay, good. Go to the next slide. Okay, so that's televito, sold by Touchstone essentials. Next slide. Okay, why do some companies claim that their products do lengthen Telomerase and bottom line is because they don't really understand Telomerase biology very well. I'm the inventor or CO inventor of every assay for measuring Telomerase length and measuring Telomerase activity, and I can tell you which ones are good and which ones are bad. But there's, there's a lot of mistakes, and so what I want to do is go to the next slide. I want to explain some things, and what I want to show is that all these companies that claim that they have a product, therapy, lifestyle or supplement that will lengthen Telomeres, what they do is they show that before treatment, Telomeres are at one length, and then afterwards they're the longer. Okay, next slide. This doesn't mean that the Telomeres got Lengthened, because there's other ways to get the same data without lengthening Telomeres go to the next slide. And in fact, these other ways actually end up resulting in shorting Telomeres throughout the body, because they're only measuring Telomerase Lengthens in the blood. But the dynamics in the blood are so weird. Cells are changing all the time, cells are coming out, cells are going in, that Telomerase lengths can change just because of the change in population. And I'll explain a little more in that in a second. But first go to the next slide, because this is a list what you're going to see several publications now that have shown other ways it's going to it's going to show what I'm going to show in the next slides. Okay, so go to the next slide. Okay, so in our blood, there's a lot of different types of cells, okay, there's and there, plus each type of cell has a whole bunch of different cells. In terms of Telomerase, there's going to be some cells that have short Telomeres. Some have long Telomeres, some have average Telomeres. Because the length of a Telomere in a cell all depends on where that cell came from. How many cell divisions has it gone through in its life? Okay? And that's going to there's going to be a whole variety of things. So there's a whole big distribution, 90, or let's say all except one company that measures Telomerase, only measure the average, and so you never know what the distribution is. So just getting the average can really dismutase be misleading. Okay, go to the next slide. Okay, so pretend now that you could reach into your blood and you could remove the cells that have critically short Telomeres. Okay, that's going to go to the next slide. I hope this works. It didn't work, okay, so that red line moves over to show that when you remove those cells, the average length of the Telomeres that remain are longer, even without any lengthening. And the analogy that I like to use is like, if you have a company and you fire your dumbest employees, the average IQ of your company increases without anybody getting any smarter. Okay, and this same thing happens in our blood, if we're in this with this link here on the top right, shows it shows is that any kind of toxin, and those previous references I showed show the same thing, anything that has any kind of toxic activity at all will, will actually preferentially kill blood cells that have short Telomeres, and as a result, the cells that remain here are going to have longer Telomeres. So so the chart that I showed before, they didn't get Lengthened. They just got rid of the cells with short Telomeres, and as a result, the average was increased. Okay, go to the next slide. The same thing can happen if you add new cells. So, if so, pretend you could just add new cells into the average length of Telomeres are going to increase and go to the next slide. This is a link showing that anything that's immunogenic is going to induce cells in your bone marrow or elsewhere that already have longer Telomeres. And some of those references I showed just before show studies showing that the cells in your bone marrow have longer Telomeres. The stem cells in your bone marrow have longer Telomeres than elsewhere in your body. Those are going to divide and infiltrate the blood, adding new cells with longer Telomeres. As a result, the average length of Telomeres are going to increase without any lengthening. So think about it. There's a lot of shorting that occurred from those cells in the bone marrow dividing to get into the bone, into the blood, okay? And the previous one, I should have mentioned that when you kill off the cells with short Telomeres, you have to have other cells divide to replace those killed cells. So again, you have Telomerase shorting. And that's why, even though the Telomeres might be getting longer, or look to be longer, in your blood, in your whole body, your average Telomerase length has decreased, has gotten shorter, okay? And this would be like, going back to that analogy of a company, if you hired a bunch of geniuses for your company, your average IQ of the company increases without anybody getting any smarter. Same thing is happening in their blood, and a lot of these products are either inducing a toxic response or an immunogenic response. And if they don't demonstrate the production of Telomerase. They cannot say that they Lengthened Telomerase. And why all these companies don't have any data showing Telomerase expression doesn't make any sense, because measuring Telomerase activity is easy. As I said, I'm an inventor, or CO inventor, of all these different tests so they can do it. And I don't know why they don't have it, except maybe they did do it and they didn't get a signal. And so they said they don't know why. They just scratched their heads that it don't know why, and just said, Well, we did see the Telomeres got longer. So let's go with that. Okay, go to the next slide, and I think this is the summary slide of what I just talked about. So a treatment, any kind of treatment, whether it's a supplement therapy, lifestyle, diet, any type of treatment that is at all toxic or Immunogenic, will do the same thing as this picture shows your Telomeres. Your average Telomerase length will be longer afterwards than before. Okay, go to the next slide. You have to measure Telomerase expression. Go to the next slide, and we test everything. So because we have this robotic drug screen, it's really easy to do. It can test up to 4000 different things a day. We have two big robots. They're million dollar robots that do this work, but go to the next slide. We tell every company our results. And so if you think somebody else has a product that's going to lengthen Telomeres, look for the Sierra Senescence or Bill Andrews seal of approval, because those companies that have passed, they do have these, this seal of approval. But guess what? The only, the only products that have passed have been the ones selling, selling products that contain ingredients that I discovered, or my company discovered. But go ahead next slide, not that I'm biased or anything like that. I've tested them all with it, because I want, I want to find something that really works. If somebody else finds something that works better than what I have, I'll be the first one standing in line to take it. Okay, so now, since I am marketing, I want to just say, and I don't get any compensation, by the way, for saying anything about these products, marketing, or anything like that. I just believe that they are good for people. They make people happier and healthier, I will say that touchdown essentials does pay my company a royalty on the sales of TELO Vitel. That's the only one they do that we use to help fund our research, that every penny of that goes into our research. Okay, so inflammation is the number one cause of aging, and I have, I have found a company or a test that I think is really incredible. I recommend everybody on this call tell their patients to get and this is called the ALCAT test. Okay, you can go to www.alcat.com I wouldn't be surprised if sunny talks about this too. What it does is it identifies non IgE. So it's not an it's not an allergy test. Allergies are caused by the IgE immune responses. But it looks at actually the changes in the morphology of the white white blood cells when there's an inflammatory response. So it tests like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of different foods and chemicals and supplements and things like that, to let you know what foods I got my dog coughing in the background, if you can hear that, but it tells you what what causes inflammation in you. And tell your patients just stop eating that food for six months to a year and they'll be fine again. Okay. But I take this test every year. I think it's a really fabulous test. Go to the next slide. I think the best place to actually get your Telomerase length measured is lifelength. Www.lifelength.com, they're the only ones that measure that show you the entire distribution of your chromosomes or your Telomeres, and they're the only ones that tell you what percent of your Telomeres are critically short. So we have a lot of people right now taking TELO Vitel that are looking having their critically short TELO Meno is looked at to see if any of them get longer. As I said, TELO Vitel is not potent enough to lengthen all the Telomeres, but we want to get data now showing that it's potent enough to lengthen the shortest Telomeres. And we know from gene therapy experiments, when cells produces the same level of Telomerase that TELO Vitel induces, it does happen. Okay, we just don't have that data for TELO Vitel yet. We're looking forward to getting that go to the next slide. There's other biomarkers of aging besides Telomerase length measurement and the best company, I my opinion, because it's headed by a guy named Ryan Smith, who's a great scientist. I've heard him speak at many conferences. He gives great data showing how he's taken a whole bunch of different biomarkers of aging and put them all together to come up with, I think, is what the best measurement of correlates with aging. Doesn't mean that reversing is going to cure aging, but it does. It's a good correlation of how your biological age compares to your chronological age. Okay, so I think sunny just posted something about a link on the chat about the ALCAT test. Go ahead to the next slide. Okay, so I said I could take me 10 hours to talk about everything. People can go to my website. Click on the next slide. This will be click on a few of them. That's my website. That's link. Click on that button. You can see what is aging. Stop there stuff there. What is aging? Why we age, how we age? Go back, go back, if you can. Okay, so that's what I talked about at the last talk. But I didn't even have time to talk about everything I can say on that then, then talking about diseases in general. I think sunny might be mentioning those. Telomerase length affects every disease you've ever heard of. The only ones I know of that it doesn't is alcoholism and sickle cell anemia. Okay, so those have nothing to do with Telomeres. Okay. So then also, why do TELO Meno shorting? What Every time a cell divides? Why do TELO Meno shorting, I call that the basal LeBrun red Telomerase shorting, something that we can't get even you get the perfect lifestyle, perfect genetics, every time your cells divide, is still going to shorten what's called the basal level rate of Telomerase SHORTENERS, which means one ride ticket. So if you have the perfect lifestyle and the perfect genetics, you could possibly live to be 125 but why can't you live longer? And it's because of the basal level Telomerase SHORTENERS. I explain why that Telomerase SHORTENERS, even when everything's perfect, Okay, the next one is Telomerase does not cause cancer. There's a lot of rumors going around, at least up until like 2017 but just on a call last night or day before, I actually had somebody on a call that actually was absolutely certain that Telomerase doesn't that Telomerase causes cancer, but he was 100% convinced the opposite is true. Telomerase actually decreases the risk of cancer. Helps you fight your cancers, actually, and so that. But you can see videos of me talking about that then, then there's a whole bunch of videos. I talked about, why is cancer not cured? Why is heart disease not cured? Why is dementia not cured? Why is all this research going on and none of these things are cured? And I talked about the gages of success. Everybody gages to success on how much, how quick can they get return on investment for their investors, or how many publications that they can get, because there's such a thing as publish or perish. So people want to get a grant to do funding. They want to get another grant afterwards. So the best way to get another grant is spend every penny of your first grant on getting publications. So nobody's got the gage of success of being let's cure diseases. If you look at my track record, you'll find out that I've cured or treated more disease than anybody on the planet. Okay, so then the next thing is best choice medicine. This comes back into what we talked about at the very beginning, classifying aging as a disease. Best Choice medicine is a proposal that me and Elizabeth parish, who is the CEO of bioviva, have published a paper on where we're talking about revamping the system at the FDA to allow people that have life threatening diseases or diseases that make life not worth living, be able to be treated with any treatment they choose. So the patient's choice is the best choice. And we actually have a the Coalition for radical life extension is organizing a march on Washington, DC, coming up, actually, early 2027 where we're going to be marching on the Lincoln Memorial to actually persuade the FDA and the government to actually change the rules about you know somebody, if you have something that your doctors told you can only live six months, or you tell your patient they can only live another six months, they can't try whatever they can to save their lives, and then, then they die. And that's that's wrong. They should be able to try anything they want. Okay, go to the next slide. This is my just ending with my vision. I think living is the greatest thing that ever happened to us. I challenged anybody to come up with something that's better that's happened to us. I love living, and I don't want to see living become any less lovable for any of us because of this dumb thing called aging. And you can see why I call it dumb by watching my little videos, especially why we age. And I'm my whole life has been spent trying to understand what aging is, why we age, how we age, so that I can do something about how make it so we don't age. And so that's what it's all about. Go to the next slide. My My motto is cure agent or die trying. Thank you very much. And what I want to do, before we go to Q and A is, I want to introduce Sonny Wynn, who's actually, I think, is a genius when it comes to understanding supplements and things like that. And he can tell you a lot more about the what things, what's a lot of these products do than I could so sunny. Are you ready to take over?

Speaker 16  1:34:44
Yes, thank you, Dr Bill, also Dr Clearfield, for providing this platform. Come on here. We're on a mission to feed families from physical pain. And does anyone here know what the top two complaints doctors are? Anyone want to make a guess, low energy and stress. So why are those? The two top two complaints to doctors? Doctor Clearfield is okay. If I could share my

Bill Clearfield  1:35:18
if you can get it to work, go for it.

Speaker 8  1:35:21
So let me see

Bill Clearfield  1:35:23
we couldn't get doc, we couldn't get Dr Andrews to work. So that's why I did it. He ended up emailing it

Speaker 17  1:35:30
to me, are you allowing participants to share?

Bill Clearfield  1:35:40
I have? Yeah.

Speaker 16  1:35:42
Okay, fantastic. You see my screen right

Bill Clearfield  1:35:45
here? I see falling short. This is,

Speaker 16  1:35:47
according to us, Department of Agriculture. Since 1948 they've been spraying pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, which destroys the microorganisms that break down the rock minerals. Since 1963 there's been more mineral deficiency diseases like cancer and autoimmune diseases. So the human body needs 90 essential nutrients. 60 must be minerals. Without the minerals the body can absorb these vitamins. And if you ever Google Linus Pauling, who had 40 PhD, every sickness and disease trace back to mineral deficiency in the human body, and the USDA data also recorded that the last 20 years without over 84% of vitamins and minerals, and now we have to eat over 43 bowls of spinach, and no one has time or money to eat that amount of spinach. So one of the reasons why I'm so passionate about sharing Super Food, Nutrition detox. My girlfriend is fighting cancer, watching the form of stage three. My dad is suffering from Alzheimer I've many friends and family who lost way too early, and I'm really obsessed with health, nutrition and fitness in my past 17 years. And you know that they're spraying toxic chemicals onto our foods, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, where they have to wear a mask because it's so toxic. And then, if you go to the supermarket, you want to read the PLU code, bar code number four, meaning pesticide eight is GMO, causes vit all these food allergies that have existed, there's a really good documentary called Food Matters, and also genetic roulette documentaries on YouTube. And so if you're buying fruits and vegetable, you want to make sure as a number nine bar code that means they're organic. And that's so the toxic toxins are pretty much everywhere. If you Google the Clean Air report, say the see the Reno you'll show you what type of type of toxic air that you're breathing. Chemicals. Our tap water contains heavy metals, pesticides, fluoride, chlorine. There's Natto plastics everywhere. There's even Telomerase found in blood of polar bears, and that's a chemical link to cancer, birth defects, the other health issues. And so Mount Sinai Medical School tested a whole bunch of humans, and they found over 100 deadly toxins in human body, so the human body has innate intelligence to heal itself, so it creates more Vitreoretinal self from these obesogens and whatever chemicals I made friends with Dr Noreen Mayberry, she's a NASA scientist. She's a toxicologist. She wrote a book called Talking toxicology, and she taught me, even if you go outside for a jog or a hike, we're breathing in and there's toxins that are in our skin, so you want to make sure you take a shower before you go to sleep. So then the other problem is alkalinity. There's a lot of food that is very acidic, 6.9 pH lower, it goes into ACIDOSIS. That's when sickness and disease come into the body. The best way to alkaline our body is to eat dark green advantage foods. And I really love Touchstone because they are 100% plant based, organic certified, and 98% of supplements that we're taking in the supermarkets GNC are synthetic. They offer or no benefits, or even some of them have, can cause harm, and this is how you can read your vitamin. If anybody wants this chart, I'll be more than happy to email you or text it to you. For example, if your vitamin b3 is nice and Niacinamide is made from coal tar derivatives ammonia and Thiamine, if it's from natural source, it should be from organic device. Brand broccoli will use organic mushrooms. Or if your vitamin B 12 supplement is called vitamin or Cyanocobalamin, is made from activated charcoal reacted with cyanobarnamine D. This is called chociferol. It's lanolin. So touchstone is only using plant based superfoods, and there's many studies that shows that if you take the vegetarian intake of vitamin C and E, it will may lower your risk of Alzheimer and then if you are taking high doses of care, Carotenoid rich fruits and vegetables for many health benefits, including possible reducing breast cancer, and if you look at the ingredients, they're all Glycosylated, and 33 servings of our fresh fruits and vegetables that we try to eat every day is equivalent to one serving of the antioxidants in the supplement of Touchstone. So just keep in mind, toxins are everywhere. Fish, the bigger the fish, the more mercury they found in plants, if you just walking outside getting some fresh air, breathing arsenic, cadmium, chromium. So we can't really escape it. And there's also a big problem, the fact that a lot of people right now, we brush our teeth and sugar every day, but we never clean the inside of the body. So Zeo, like CCR, are Clinoptilolite Zeolite. They're Nanosized in the pure body, and they pretty much cross the blood brain barrier. And it's also spray into your mouth four times, and it helps get rid of toxins having Meno 's parasite 's and even use these clinical light Zeolite in Europe to get rid of Chernobyl radiation. I have the white papers, if anybody want the white paper with studies published medical journals, and the pure body spray is also good for rash bug bites. Who don't like bug bites. Pure body is not a micron size. Is for your stomach to get detox, but it actually helps with antiviral so if you're coming down with a cough or cold or flu, double the dosage, it will really stop the virus from verification within 48 hours, and I can send you the scientific research for that. The FULVIC mineral is something that we're all lacking, and it also helps the cell function better. But 5 billion people got the covid shot, and if you know anybody that got the covid shot, I highly recommend a live blood analysis where you can actually see the blood cells over sticky. Just like if you eat too much meat, you have diabetes, you have cancer, the blood cells are being sick. We have Dr Thomas Brewer on here. He tests blood samples all day, and he's finding a lot of Spike protein. That's what we're looking at here, Spike protein. And 5 billion people got the Colloidal shot. Millions have died from myocarditis, strokes, heart attack, Turbo cancers. And I really love the fact that Touchstone has a Natto player. The Japanese have been eating Nattokinase for over 100 years, for many health benefits as bromalin for plant Natto green tea, it really helps with detoxing the body from spike protein actually gives more more energy, focus, muscle relief, joint support, and also bloat and Bill, can you share with everyone why you like the Nattokinase?

Speaker 1  1:43:27
Well, I think I mentioned it before. One of the things that Nattokinase does, this is not a kinase. Those of you that know about enzymes and things like that, this is not a kinase. It's actually it's a enzyme from a bacteria called nattokina. It's found in Japan, but it's it's an protease, and it has a very specific sequence that it degrades. So it doesn't degrade all proteins. It's just a grade some of them, and one of them happens to be the spike protein, which Sonny just talked about. But what I like is it degrades plasminogen activator inhibitor, which I mentioned before, because that's an inhibitor. One of the enzymes I discovered, tissue plasminogen activator, which every ambulance carries. But the other thing is that it also degrades Fibrinogen, which is again going to help reduce blood clots and so I guess So this Nattokinase is actually, I think a super enzyme. The only thing is that people have to be cautious if they're on blood thinner 's, because this enzyme works so well that you might have to have some problems with bleeding if you are also on blood thinner 's, but, but there's, there's our there are studies that show you what dose you can take without having to worry about it, even if you're on blood thinners. I don't have that those numbers available. I didn't expect something to ask.

Speaker 16  1:44:49
Thank you. Dr Joe, yeah. So how many of you here like to eat chocolate cake, pizza, bread, rice, dessert, Witteman, alcohol, all that sort of sugar. So if you take this glucose control one hour before you have that piece of chocolate cake, well, it turns the sugar into insoluble fiber, therefore it's going to help you with your glucose and it has many other health benefits. For example, it prevents you from getting hungry, taking your sweet food bring in lack of focus with your energy, prevents acne your skin breakouts. It helps you lose weight. And also the parachiel, whether you have pets, you go barefooted, like sushi, most likely you have parasites. I did not believe that I had a parasite until I did these parachiel cleanse and I actually saw a parasite coming out of me, my girlfriend, parachid clans. He actually saw eggs and parasites coming out of her. So the other thing is, I really want to touch base on Dr Bill's research, the fact that when Telomeres get short, bad things happen, gray hair, wrinkles, loss of memory, protease. But Dr Bill, can you talk a little bit more about the aging related diseases that 's associated with Telomerase? SHORTENERS?

Speaker 1  1:46:08
I thought you were gonna talk about but let me just say quickly that when we first discovered Telomerase and figured out a way to lengthen 's, we weren't aware 's there somebody else talking we didn't actually expect to find that it affected practically every disease on the planet. And this is just a list of all the diseases that I had known about, like 1015, years ago. Now the list has gotten so big, the print would be too small, but even something like AIDS, AIDS is actually affected by Telomerase shorting, because when the HIV infects you, infects you, it actually the only thing it does is it kills immune cells, okay, specifically the cdW cells. Now the when, when you first, when you not when somebody you know gets infected with HIV. They don't know it for several years. And the reason they don't know it is because when the HIV kills the immune cells, other cells can divide to replace those immune cells. But as a result, Telomeres got shorter, then that gets killed, and then another cell 's the divide and replace that cell. So you get a faster rate of Telomerase shorting as a result of the faster rate of cell division. And eventually you run out of Telomeres, and then the you start suffering from immune deficiency syndrome, because you don't have any immune cells. And so that's so if we could keep Telomeres long in patients that were suffering from AIDS, they could probably not suffer anymore. They could probably live normal lives, even though they 's still be infected with the virus. Another example is liver cirrhosis you drink, which is third on the third on the right from the top, everybody knows that when you drink alcohol, you kill liver cells. Well, that doesn't bother people at first, because they have other cells that can divide to replace those killed liver cells. And again, Telomeres get shorter, and eventually you run out of Telomeres and you get liver cirrhosis, muscular dystrophy, same kind of thing, except in this case, it's not a lifestyle. 's due to the dystrophin mutation, or gene variant. I don't want to call it mutation, because it's probably just the gene variant. And the dystrophin gene variant actually accelerates the rate of cell division and muscle cells or mile sites. And as a result, you don't you don't feel any symptoms when you're young, until you're like 4050, years old. All of a sudden you start running out of Telomeres, and you can't replace your killed muscle cells anymore, and that kills you. I can explain all these diseases that way, but everything, everything else connected to the length of Telomeres, people don't know the importance of Telomeres in all of health because they just don't know enough about Telomerase biology. And that's one of the things I'm trying to do, is I'm trying to explain to everybody, look at Telomeres. These are really, really important. Soon as we figure out a way to lengthen all the Telomeres in humans, we're going to see some dramatic changes in the way people live. Hopefully we'll see a reversal of aging. Go ahead. Sorry, sir.

Speaker 16  1:49:23
Thank you, Dr Bill, so whether you're looking to improve your cognitive clarity, hair color, thickness, nasty, you have more energy, your immune health, better sleep, less stress, better joint health, muscle recovery, strength, stamina, or even your prostate, I highly recommend to do the full system, which is called the advantage pack, which offers you the detox and you're able to remove the problem, and which is heavy metals, toxins, Parasite 's nano plastics. And then, you know, repair the damaged cells. And then we build healthy cells. Healthy cells, we build heavy bones, joints little bit, and we want to invite a couple of our teammates that came out that is really mind blowing, because when I met Peter Mayhew, here he was suffering from 30 rounds 939. Rounds of radiation for cancer. He couldn't breathe. He was lying down to sleep. He had to shove a contraption of his nose. He was totally miserable. Peter, is there any way you could jump out your young age of 83 share with everyone here how this changed your life. Peter,

Speaker 18  1:50:34
yeah. Thanks Tony for this opportunity. When you asked me to talk about what's going on with me, I hadn't really think about how I was going to approach it. But let me start off by saying thank you to Dr Bill Andrews, because his 30 plus years of research and Eddie stone, with his products, they give me back my life. But not only that, I'm 83 and most people think that I'm in my late 50s or 60s now, the way I walk, the way I behave, what I can do, all the sports I can do, I'm right back to being a young man again, which is just this is in an eight month period. So let me go back to last fall, in August. I was sitting I'm glad Sonny mentioned the diseases that I had, really, really damaged my body, and the hormone therapy really gave me a rough time. Anyway, in August, I was sitting on the sofa. I could barely get off just walking to the garage, I would get my breath would go away. I had no energy. My grip was really bad. My eyesight wasn't all that great. I just felt like enough is enough. And I remember the all the doctrine says I had a heart specialist, I had a cancer specialist, I had a GP and an ear, nose and throat specialist, and all the numbers did not look good. I was scheduled to have my nose rebuilt, three and a half hour operation, because the before vaccine 's I took, this is what I think. That's my own opinion. I'm not a doctor. I'm just an engineer. So I don't know, but my nose had totally collapsed. The cartridge had just my nose like it was just flop like a like a flag in the wind. 's horrible. So I couldn't breathe at night. I had to shove a mechanical device up my nose so I could breathe and get some sleep. I was getting up about eight to nine times a night, so I wasn't getting a very good sleep for almost a year. My grip was very weak. My muscles were weak. I felt fragile, just completely tired with no energy at all. My resting heart rate, which was always pretty good, was up over 80. My filtration rate in my kidneys, was down to 38 my Creatinine was up to 125 so things were not not looking good. My, my my lung capacity was only down to 80% and I can go on on, I have all these numbers, but I remember the date, August 27 last year. My good friend steel Brown called me. She had connected with Sunny and she said, Peter, got to get you on televin and the Touchstone products need to get on it. And it's funny, because just before my phone rang and somebody notices I had a butcher knife on my neck, I wanted to kill myself. Seriously, if it wasn't for these products, I'd be dead today. So anyway, we ordered the products, and three weeks into taking televital and all the Touchstone products, and I have to thank Sonny, because he told me what to take when and be an engineer. I'm very regimented in what I do, and I made sure I took the right things at the right time every day. Three weeks into all these products and televital, I woke up at three o'clock in the morning. I remember the time because I wear my watch when I sleep, and the mechanical advice had to shove my nose so I could breathe. I'd fallen out, and I had no trouble breathing, and I felt my nose, I said, My gosh, it's like my nose had rebuilt itself. Eight months later, my filtration rate is almost 60 now 's 58 my resting heart rate is 54 to 56 my lung capacity is 98% My eyesight is improved to the point where I only wear glasses for driving because I have to. It's on my license car. And if I'm watching a movie or TV, my drip is phenomenal. I have my strength back. I can run, I can walk. I don't have to stop and rest when I'm walking. My skin out, Acetylene 's much better. My hair 's darker. What else can I say here? I wrote some things down. So many things have happened to me. What have I forgotten? Oh, and my heart. I don't know whether the hormone therapy did this or the vaccine did this, but my ejection rates are not that good, and I have plaque in the lower right hand side of my heart. So I doubled up on the nattokina, and after about a month of doing that, I did get winded when I moved or walked or ran, I could breathe a lot easier, and I'm being tested again in June, so hopefully those the plaque in my ears is going to be gone, because I don't get exhausted when I do things anymore, which I used to the Other thing I used to have, I used to have signs of bronchitis, coughed up a lot of phlegm, as Sue would know. I kept stopping the car spinning out the time that's all gone. I don't have that anymore. I don't wheeze when I breathe, I don't whistle when I breathe, in my nose, that's all gone. So suffice to say, today we met somebody, and they thought I was they were blown away when I said I'm 83 so most people think I'm in my late 50s, early 60s. My biological age is 61 and my chronological age is just below 7069, so my age is going back, and I just feel phenomenal. As Dr Bill Andrews said, probably because I had a lot of extremely short, critical Telomeres, and that's probably why I'm regressing back in my age. So that's my testimony. I feel great. Thank you, Dr Bill Andrews, thank you Sonny, for your leadership. And pass on my thanks to Eddie Stylo,

Speaker 16  1:56:45
well, thank you, Peter, appreciate you. Dr Clearfield, my friend Joan, and her mom, her husband died a couple

Speaker 2  1:56:53
years

Speaker 8  1:56:53
ago.

Speaker 16  1:56:53
She was in and out of hospital, and she was walking with a walker, and she was wearing reading glasses. She's 94 will be 95 this Thursday, and as you see her, she's no longer wearing glasses, and her white hair is darting at the root, and I'll just let her share. Ma, can you step out and share with everyone?

Speaker 10  1:57:16
Yes. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:18
There you go.

Speaker 10  1:57:19
Sunny has already told you everything that is about me, because tomorrow or 24 hours ago for from now on, I mean, in 24 hours, I'll be officially 95 years younger. True, I should say I'm very thankful for doctor bill to have introduced the Telovital Because I know that televital has helped me well. My children introduced Dr Bill, put it up in market, so sunny, and my Natto Joe told me to take it in. So from then on, every day, every morning, I had to take my televital, and that shows that I am standing straight, straighter, straight. No more wheelchair. I enjoy life. And what else can I say I'm 95 years younger now.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:15
How long have you been using the Telovital

Speaker 10  1:58:19
televital is

Speaker 15  1:58:21
since my mom and I have been using it since June 19 of 2025,

Speaker 10  1:58:26
oh, yes, it was today. Yeah, June 19. Yes, it was introduced

Bill Clearfield  1:58:30
not even a

Speaker 3  1:58:30
year.

Speaker 10  1:58:31
No, not yet. Yes, then you could just see me now sitting up straight and have good appetite. Telovital gave me back my life. Now I'm very happy. And thank you, doctrbl, thank you sunny and taking me to Creatinine. One other

Bill Clearfield  1:58:51
question, there's a picture on your mantle above your left shoulder from where I'm seeing is that you with dark hair there?

Speaker 15  1:58:59
Yeah. 's my mom when she was in her early 20s, when she graduated from the university.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:04
That's her, right?

Speaker 2  1:59:05
Yeah, yeah, you

Bill Clearfield  1:59:08
have the same skin. Tonite, you look exactly the same.

Speaker 10  1:59:11
Oh, yeah. Televital, I'll just say, Telovital,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:15
here's your commercial. Sonny.

Speaker 10  1:59:18
Yeah.

Speaker 16  1:59:21
Witness all these transformations. Her white hair. Her hair was all white.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:30
You were having some supply issues when, when we had our thing, have you gotten that straightened out? They

Speaker 16  1:59:38
it worked so well that it was the company couldn't keep up with the demand, and 's back to stock now, but you gotta hear from the amazing Debbie Steeler. Debbie has been a touchdown for many years. Can you share with everyone how it changed your life? Deborah,

Speaker 19  1:59:57
I certainly will. Sonny, thanks for inviting me, but I have to tell Dr Bill Clearfield, I'm so glad he's an eagle 's fan, because I'm a huge Eagle 's fan.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:05
Well, that's where I'm from. So

Speaker 19  2:00:11
I'm from Pennsylvania, also Wilkes Barry, Scranton area.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:15
I lived in Wilkes Barre for 30 years.

Speaker 19  2:00:18
You did?

Bill Clearfield  2:00:19
I did. Yes, I lived in Kingston, then I lived at montage mountain, and then my I had my office,

Speaker 19  2:00:26
thinking of it, I might have heard of you because my, I lived in 40 Fort for 18 years. Well,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:34
that's where my office was for the last 10 years of my when I was there.

Speaker 19  2:00:38
Oh my gosh, this is too funny. We'll have to talk another time. But anyway, what could I say? First of all, going back like nine or 10 years ago, that I had a lot of new issues where I was kind of having a hard time going up and Down's stairs, to the point where I got stopped on a stair and I couldn't move. So I went to a local doctor here, and he said, You know, I don't know what's wrong, but you're probably going to need a new replacement in the next year or so. So time went on, I was reduced to this product, and I start taking them religiously, let's say in the month of August. By December, I started noticing differences. So my joint issues I have, as you could see, my hand have osteoarthritis, but this is the way they looked seven years ago. There's no more progression since I've been taking Wellspring, which is like an anti inflammatory. My digestive issues. I had a lot of digestive issues, especially, you know, during the holidays, when you're eating not exactly the right kind of food, done, and that's from taking many different products. I took the pure body, the pure body extra, I took the Supergreens juice, the super protein, and I really got into promoting it, because I saw results. So it was easy for me to promote something that I saw results with IgE position. Inflammation gone. I have a problem going up and Down's stairs for like, eight years, so I have to attribute to what I'm doing, and that's taking me religiously, and I take them every day. Now let's talk about doctrins and his wonderful televital. When I first started taking it, I felt a sense of euphoria, like stress free. Nothing bothered me. I was happy all the time. I'm normally a happy person, but this was, this was something unexplainable. It was like euphoria. Now you could see I've been white. I've been white since probably my 's late. I have dark hair coming through. My nails are so strong and growing like crazy. My hair is growing like crazy. I just got a haircut because I have to get a haircut quite often because of this more energy, just so many different things with this televital that I've been promoting it like crazy and got so many customers. And my one friend who unfortunately couldn't be on this call, had macular degeneration, and since been taking it for two after two months of taking it, she's on her third month now, she could see better in the mirror. She had gray lines on her eyes, and they're now gone. So a lot of really, yeah, this is another friend

Speaker 20  2:04:00
of ours, and you could see on the screen there that's been taking it Look at her hair. And same thing with me. I had a lot of very thinning hair, and I don't have those spots anymore. This lady had. They weren't as severe as this woman, but still, it bothered me. At the age of 73 I wanted to be 100 so I'm hoping to be a brunette by Christmas. I'm working on it. But everything is just as people on this call had mentioned, when you're when everything is sourced within the country, you know, and it's pure, it's farm to bottle, it's cold, processed. All of these things matter when you're looking for supplements to take to get yourself in a better in a healthier situation. So thank you, Dr Andrew and Sonny

Speaker 14  2:05:00
for giving me this opportunity to talk. I appreciate Debbie,

Speaker 16  2:05:06
yeah, so we're here to share a gift that keeps on giving, and we truly believe that the human body really protein cells to address the issue of aging. The sarcopenia happens at the age of 25 when we start using point one skeletal muscle mass and brain atrophy starts at the age of 35 they'll start shrinking so we don't have to suffer as we grow older. I truly believe in Dr Bill Andrews work. I can't believe that he can't hear aging within years, funding has been following his opinion. And Dr Clearfield, thank you so much for Thank

Bill Clearfield  2:05:52
you, sonny. Thank you. Dr Andrews, Dr Nario, is there any questions online?

Speaker 7  2:05:59
Yeah. So thank you, Doctor Bill, for that great presentation. There's one that I think got our audience attention here, when you showed that there was a graph that showed that there is no, I guess, evidence of diet and lifestyle, showing evidence that Telomeres can be Lengthened. And the comment here was stating, I get that they signed, they cited the the Ornish Diet in the PREDIMED study, study diet, which are all vegetarian based and plant based, actually had saying that there are increases in TELOMERE lengths. So I don't know if, again, they're just making a constructive comment here, maybe you can clear that up for our audience.

Speaker 1  2:06:43
Well, I know Dean, Dean Ornish. I've met him many times and talked with him and stuff like that. They're just misusing, misinterpreting the Telomerase like measurement assays. They're looking at the average Telomeres. They're they're seeing the same type of things that I had mentioned before, but their diet does not induce any Telomerase expression at all, and I have told them that, and it's just, I think he doesn't. Of course, I could get myself into cease and desist letters. I just don't think he understands what I'm talking about when I say that. But yeah, it's there is no data whatsoever that there's any kind of diet that will lengthen Telomerase, because the only way to lengthen Telomerase is to induce Telomerase. And there's no food on the planet that induces Telomerase. If there was, we know it by now, because people would be having solutions to their aging for 1000s of years now, and they haven't. So, yeah, so yeah. And what else can I say that there's no fine. So here's what I should have said. Instead of saying what I did say, I should have said, ask Dean Ornish to show the data that shows that his diet plan induces the expression of Telomerase. Okay, he will not have any data. Nobody will, because nobody can get that kind of data. It doesn't happen. And so the only way to lengthen Telomeres is with the enzyme Telomerase. And I will say there is one case of an example of where Telomeres can get Lengthened in the absence of Telomeres, and that's only in cancer cells, never found in normal human cells, and that's called the Alc pathway. Alc stands for alternative lengthening of Telomeres, and that's where Telomeres start getting longer through recombination, DNA recombination and but that's only ever been observed in 5% of cancer cells.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:52
There's an interesting question here. Is there a percentage of shortened Telomeres where Telovital would be the most effective?

Speaker 1  2:08:59
Shorter, the better. Shorter, the shorter, the shorter they are, the smaller that ball of yarn, the more easily Telomerase get to the very tip.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:10
So maybe I missed it. We were talking about the the Telomerase test, where the TELOMERE test, there was somebody put

Speaker 1  2:09:20
it on our test lifelength. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:22
all right. So What? What? What are we looking for as an alarm point? What are we looking for as a you know, we're an acceptable point.

Speaker 1  2:09:33
Well, unfortunately, you can't measure the shorting, the slowing of Telomerase shorting. But if you can, if you have some critically short Telomeres, you can, hopefully, because we're still doing this right now, you can see the shortest ones get Lengthened, and that would be something that we'd expect the level Telomerase that's induced by televital to do. But yeah, there's, there's, I mean, okay, so we aren't doing a lot of studies on televital, because we're spending all of our time looking for even more potent ingredients to put into next generation 's of televital. If we did studies on televital, by the time we got done with the studies, we'd have the next generation out. And so that's been a frustrating issue. 's like, we can't do that. I've got to spend all my time and my scientist time here working on finding more potent ingredients than televital, because our mission is to lengthen all the Telomeres and all the cells. So what I've been asking people to do, like Touchstone essentials and people, some people on this call, actually, to ask them to go to lifelength and get their Telomeres measured before and after and start generating some data that way. But it's, of course, it's not going to be the perfect double blind, placebo controlled study that I like to do. Like I've been through six or seven clinical studies on a lot of other things I've discovered, and I would have never, ever agreed to do a clinical study like this. But in this case, in nutraceutical 's, it's like there's, you don't have really any choice. You can't if you spend all your time trying to do studies, you can't get anything better produced. And that's what that's our goal, is to produce a better product and come on with a new generation of televital Soon, when we get to the point of having something that actually wins the Tuberous war, believe me, we would do everything. We'll stop everything we're

Speaker 21  2:11:30
doing to do clinical

Speaker 16  2:11:34
studies on that city here is asking, Can televital be taken with cancer?

Speaker 1  2:11:41
Okay, well, again, I can't make medical claims. But what I there is one of the things I said that people can go watch videos on it. When I on that slide I showed For more, go to my videos. There's there's one talking especially that I gave in 2017 in Tokyo, very, very big conference. When I got off the plane, I was surprised to see my picture on billboards, for instance, but I gave a talk there, and one of the key things I talked about was the rumors going around that Telomerase causes cancer and increases the risk of a cancer getting worse and but it's the exact opposite, and that's what I showed in this video. If people go to watch that video, they can can see all the data I show. I did a critical meta analysis of peer reviewed studies looking at this subject. But the bottom line, what I can say is, if I had cancer, and I see sunny just posted that video into the chat, if I had cancer, I would be doing everything I can to lengthen my Telomeres, because that's going to decrease the rate of skyrocketing mutation rates, because short Telomeres cause skyrocketing mutation rates, and when you have mutations, that increases the chances that survive, the cancers will become Meno Acetic increases the chances they'll survive whatever you treat them with. 's one of the reasons why a lot of people have relapses when they have cancer. 's because of the skyrocketing mutation rates that short Telomeres induce. In fact, cancer 's become cancer before they become Immunogenic. So cancer is the definition of cancer 's lack of growth control, and so, you know, I was national Inventor of the Year in the United States for my cancer research. So though I talk about aging a lot, I have a tremendously great background in cancer research. I've had a lot of drugs through clinical studies. One just got approved called wittelo, R, Y, T, E, l, o, people can go Google it and learn about it. But you know, I just wanted because I, I am an expert on cancer, even though I promote myself as an AntiAging scientist, I I've talked about how the fact that not only does Telomerase, or Lengthened Telomerase decrease the skyrocketing mutation rates, because it's the meat. So I said cancer becomes cancer first by losing growth control, but then it shouldn't grow beyond a certain point, because the Telomeres should stop it from growing. But because of the skyrocketing mutation rates, some of those cells survive and become immortal, and that's why cancer 's become immortal. But keeping Telomeres long also boosts your immune system to make your immune system better at fighting cancer. There is, I mean, I haven't seen the peer reviewed studies, but I've heard this a lot, even at medical conferences, that everybody gets cancer on average seven times a day, but our immune system fights it, so we never even know it. And but when your Telomeres get shorting your immune system, you start getting immune Senescence, and you lose the ability to fight your cancers. So keeping Telomeres long keeps your immune system fighting too. Now, the one thing you do not want to do, you do not want to find a way to deliver Telomerase just to your cancer cells. You want to deliver it to all your cells, okay? But even if you did deliver it just to your cancer cells, if your cancers have already become immortal, and by the way, if you are over, like 40 years old, and you can do the math on this, if you have a single cell in your body that becomes cancer, the Telomeres in a 40 plus year old person are short enough that the cancer will never get larger than a small pimple, because the Telomeres will will cause it to have its limit on its lifespan, and it will stop dividing. But because of the skyrocketing mutation 's rates, it go. It does get bigger because it mutates, and some of the cells do turn on Telomerase and don't have Telomerase shorting. So if you have a cancer, you're affording, you have a cancer that is larger than a small pimple. It has already solved the anti the life extension, or the limit on a lifespan problem, the hAMK limit. 's was looking for. 's hAMK Look limit is the name for this limit on our lifespan. So if so, that means that if you have a cancer bigger than your pimple, it 's already immortal, and you can't make something more immortal than immortal. And so it's like, even if you did deliver it just to your immortal cancer cells, it's not going to make cancers any better. And any, any strong, any grow any faster, kill you faster, anything like that 's going to be the same. But the key is that Telomerase does not cause cells to divide. Telomerase only gives the cells more opportunities to divide when they need to divide, and that's something that a lot of people don't understand. That's why a lot of people get false impressions about what Telomerase and Telomeres long Telomerase can do, but that's I don't know if it's long answer. People should go to the my video and watch the 2017 the talk in Tokyo that sunny just posted. It's, it's actually pretty good.

Speaker 3  2:17:16
Okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:22
Is there a time that televital stops lengthening Telomeres?

Speaker 1  2:17:27
Well, okay, so it's always like a tug of war, and it turns out that when experiments that we've done like 's where we would do gene therapy and introduced Telomerase into cells, and then some cells would produce low levels, some produce medium levels, some would produce high levels. What we found, and in all cases, is that the TELOMERE length reach a steady state. Okay, so the shorter the Telomeres, the easier is to lengthen. The longer and longer and longer it gets, the harder it becomes to lengthen. So the level of Telomerase that gets produced is always going to cause Telomeres to go to a steady state length, and the steady state length will be longer the more Telomerase you have. Okay, so, yeah, so there's going to be a point, and we don't know what that point is yet, okay, because we aren't doing those kind of studies, we know there's something we just want to get more potent stuff, but it is. There's going to be some study state where it does stop lengthening, but at least you can maintain that length at that state. And that should be really good for people. Going to be a lot better than having a whole body filled with critically short Telomeres, and 's being extremely unhealthy. It'll be a lot longer than critically short question.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:50
Suppose you know dr Nario decided he wanted to begin say it like an AntiAging practice and use a lot of the principles that you discussed tonight, what would be reasonable, you know, a type of evaluation, what, what to look for, what, you know, where, where to where to start. We, you know, what goals you would have. You know, what, what, what's looking for, some sort of practicalities that those of us out here and you know on the front lines can can use. Well,

Speaker 1  2:19:27
if you are totally limiting yourself to nutraceutical 's, Telovital is the most potent, and it's the only nutraceutical that actually induces Telomerase expression. So I would put every patient on that if you are, if you are somebody who's suffering from some really devastating age related disease and your lifespan is limited to, like six months or a year or something like that, I would recommend gene therapy, Telomerase gene therapy. And that's you can go to a company called bile viva, B, i, o, V, i, b, a.com, and they don't do the gene therapies, but they, they're like a, like a travel agent, okay, they will set you up to be doing gene therapies outside the country, okay, mostly in Mexico and Colombia and things like that, where You can get Telomerase gene therapy. And that's going to be lot more potent, but it's also extremely expensive. I mean, like, a million dollars of dose, okay? And it's not because they're trying to rip you off. 's because that's actually how much it costs. When I've done the 's, I'm trying to see how much would cost to get my gene therapy 's made to high enough scale that we could treat people. That's what I was told by company called Vitreoretinal Zeo or used to be in San Jose, I think they're now down in Texas. But that's how much it costs to actually produce enough of the gene therapy to treat one person once. Then you also want to do a lot of testing. You don't want to do all that, spend all that money and not getting testing done. So you want to measure Telomeres, show that they get longer. You want to measure a lot of biomarkers of aging, things like that. And you want to look at safety things, because one of the big problems is cytotoxic T cell responses, which, for those of you that don't know, it's when, when your own body starts developing an immune response against treated cells. Okay, what it also occurs in in tissue transplants, that rat versus host disease, is where your immune system starts attacking the new tissue. But it all but besides the tissue transplants, it also happens with gene therapy. When you get treated with a gene therapy, a lot of people will get develop an immune response against the cells that got infected with your gene therapy, and your liver transaminases start to skyrocket, and that's just the first sign, because their liver 's the most sensitive to something like that, but 's affecting all the cells of your body that got infected with the gene therapy. And that's the number one reason why people in clinical studies have died. When I say risky, 's because people have died in clinical studies because the front what do you call 's? Principal Investigator wasn't really monitoring for cytotoxic T cell responses, mostly by looking at liver transaminases being elevated, and once you see that, you need to act really fast to save the patient. I've written a lot of clinical protocols on on gene therapies, and I just know they are. There's nobody's trying to cheat you when they tell you 's going to cost a million dollars a

Bill Clearfield  2:22:49
dose. Well, that's there's your that kind of lets my my clientele out, but Dr menario 's people are lined up for it. And actually, I think we should let Dr halasa know. Remember what he was he was advertising. He was going to do a concierge practice with $100,000 a month concierge practice, right? So there's your billion dollars.

Speaker 7  2:23:11
He's going to like th one, th two,

Speaker 2  2:23:14
yeah,

Speaker 7  2:23:14
sells here that you're seeing. So,

Bill Clearfield  2:23:18
Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions. 's getting on after 1015 back East. So So Dr Andrews and Sonny, thank you so much. Let me I'll get in touch with you about the Boston bio life.

Speaker 7  2:23:37
Dr Gerber has a question.

Bill Clearfield  2:23:39
Yeah. Dr Gerber

Speaker 7  2:23:41
and Michael 's muted. Oh, you're muted. Dr, Gerber,

Bill Clearfield  2:23:48
we can't hear you. Dr, Gerber,

Speaker 6  2:23:50
working on it. Thank you guys. Great talk. Bill, appreciate all your 's work. I always just like to put in my two bits of asking, Well, what happens in your mix when you look at thyroid hormones, adrenal hormones and sex hormones? So I just wonder what that mix would look like. And if any of us guys here who kind of focus on that as an AntiAging technique, but ever be able to join in and help out?

Speaker 1  2:24:27
I, you know, until, until we have further data, they're going to have to rely on you. And I, you know, I want to thank you for introducing me to this group. I really enjoyed a lot. Made a lot of friends and stuff like that, talking about this group. And so I enjoy doing this, but, yeah, but those studies haven't been done yet. They've been done in animals. I'd have to go back and look at the studies to find out what the actual results were, but I don't know. Well, I know studies have been done in animals. I don't know. I don't remember anybody looking at sex hormones or Thiamine horn ones, or anything like that. So but I can go do some

Speaker 6  2:25:05
add that into your beautiful mix.

Speaker 1  2:25:08
I will, in fact, this is how I do a lot of my stuff. Somebody asked a question, a great question like that, and next thing you know, I'm writing a book about it. All right, all right.

Speaker 6  2:25:19
Thanks for your great

Bill Clearfield  2:25:21
work. Question. Dr, Gerber, I'm slip. I must be slipping, right? That's usually what I ask. Okay, well, again,

Speaker 16  2:25:33
ADRDA genetic herbs like sheep's, which helps with the hormones. Dr,

Speaker 1  2:25:42
oh, I don't know, but Michael would probably know. Dr Gerber would know.

Speaker 6  2:25:47
No, we love sheep's. We love all those. Yeah, we'd love to get rid of all the heavy metals and the detox and all that stuff.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:56
Shiloji will boost testosterone and, you know, androgens, so,

Speaker 6  2:26:01
right?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:03
So that's, that's kind of where we, where we put it. So, so there's your next there's your next book, Dr Andrews, what's the effect of of TELOMERE length on hormones, I mean, what is the effect of the hormones on Telomeres?

Speaker 6  2:26:24
Right?

Speaker 1  2:26:26
Well, hormones, unfortunately, especially the hormones that induce cell division, actually accelerate Telomerase shorting.

Speaker 6  2:26:34
Oh,

Speaker 1  2:26:35
yeah, because they induce cell division. But that's but I always say, what's the point of living a long time if you're not living and so sometimes inducing these cells to divide provides you with benefits that make life more worth living. And I just say, Don't worry about it. We'll have a solution. Hey, Irina,

Speaker 20  2:26:52
we

Speaker 1  2:26:54
will have we will have a solution to that problem, if I can just continue doing my research. But

Speaker 3  2:27:02
okay, alright, and very

Speaker 6  2:27:05
good.

Bill Clearfield  2:27:07
So just Okay, so when we're done, I just one little, little comment, not, not pertaining to this particularly So, Doc, Kevin Verlander and I have started talking about the Next Conference. And since it's or it's now April, the end of almost may before I've recovered from the last one, I'm thinking about maybe again, the end of November, beginning of December. I think the week we did it was probably okay, that first week in December, was that okay for everybody?

Speaker 6  2:27:39
Sure that'll

Bill Clearfield  2:27:40
give us plenty of time to, you know, put it together. So Dr Andrew 's first weekend in December. Absolutely market, market and mark your calendar. We haven't decided where yet. I'm not sure if Reno or since, we're going to keep it in Nevada, since we have the homeopaths to satisfy so, so probably either here or Vegas, I guess, with one or the other. So

Speaker 6  2:28:06
thank goodness.

Speaker 1  2:28:07
Count me in

Bill Clearfield  2:28:09
so, so. So keep that in mind, and we'll start. We're going to start putting that together and and great, great talk. Thank you so much for being with us again, and you can be certain we're going to be calling on you again, because again, I have endless Tuesdays to fill up next week, I have another patient. I hope you like that format. Have another patient, a young lady, I think she's about 11 years old, with a multitude of autoimmune diseases. So we're going to introduce you to her, and we're going to throw it out to our audience here to see what we can do to help her along. Okay, so that that'll be next week. So I don't know about the TELOMERE guys, an 11 year old, is that that before you're out of your out of your age range, or,

Speaker 1  2:29:12
well, there's people that are younger than that that have critically short Telomeres. And autoimmune diseases are definitely connected to the lengthier Telomeres, the you know, the T reg cell, T regulatory cells are have shorter Telomeres and people that have autoimmune diseases. So I'm hoping that we're going to find out that Lengthened Telomeres can actually cure some of the autoimmune diseases. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:29:39
so that'll be next week. Anybody else have any comments questions you got? Got a lot, a lot of lot of attaboys and, you know, and thank you. 's in the chat. 's here.

Speaker 7  2:29:52
Dr Gerber. Has a question.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:54
's Dr Gerber,

Speaker 6  2:29:56
Dr Clearfield, what happened to your last patient, the little gal with the migraines?

Bill Clearfield  2:30:01
Well, she's stable at the moment. You know, we're a little bit too soon yet to, you know, to do a reevaluation. But, you know, I we got in touch with her about a week ago, and she said she was feeling pretty good. So we're doing okay. So far. We'll see how that goes, and we'll take it from there. Okay, so

Speaker 22  2:30:26
are the, are the tonsil 's injected yet?

Bill Clearfield  2:30:30
Are the what

Speaker 22  2:30:31
tonsil 's injected yet? That was a key matter.

Bill Clearfield  2:30:34
The tonsils were inject, not by me.

Speaker 22  2:30:38
Dr Gerber, can you do that hit tonsil scars or tonsils,

Speaker 6  2:30:43
sure. 30 years. Okay, I worry more about her poor battle

Speaker 22  2:30:50
Well, in Germany, now, that would be step one for her, after what we went through, and you're the only one I know near her there. So I hope that happens.

Speaker 6  2:30:59
It's you know, not neurosurgery.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:02
I need, I think I need somebody to hold my hands to do it at least the first time. So

Speaker 22  2:31:07
it's easy, it's easy. It's just the thought,

Bill Clearfield  2:31:11
Well, we did with Dr parson. We did, we did. We did inject exosome 's through the cribiform plate right into the brain, and that was a little bit nerve wracking. I guess maybe injecting a tonsil or scar is a little less nerve wracking.

Speaker 22  2:31:29
Yeah, it's, it's easy, and it's quick, and you get results within one minute. All

Bill Clearfield  2:31:35
right, I'm going to hold you to that.

Speaker 22  2:31:37
Yeah, yeah, man,

Bill Clearfield  2:31:38
alright, I'm going to Okay. So if I, if I arrange that, if we arrange to do that, I'm going to have you on standby.

Speaker 22  2:31:45
Nah, Gerber 's got it, man, he's cool.

Speaker 6  2:31:48
Oh, bless your heart.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:51
Okay, all right. Well, decide we're going to do that. I'll send them down to you. I'll send her down to you. Michael,

Speaker 6  2:31:56
all right, sadil,

Speaker 22  2:31:57
and by the way, Bill, with this format that you're talking about, including the patients. I think that is fantastic, and it's leading to a whole nother thing. So it's, it's exceptional, what's happening now. So thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  2:32:12
Yeah, you know, we've, we've done it twice, I think, I think it's went pretty well. So,

Speaker 22  2:32:18
yeah, just,

Bill Clearfield  2:32:19
just a

Bill Clearfield  2:32:19
little bit different, and hopefully it's a little bit more practical, you know, for those of us again out here, you know, getting our heads chopped off every, every day. So, so Okay, the question was, oh, we were the patient had, MS, and we were, we did some exosomes right again, right through the cribriform plate. Was it helpful? No, I'm not so sure. So, I mean, she's still fairly unfortunately, her caretaker was her husband passed away, so she's had a hard time of it. She's kind of living alone. And so my next thought is, we might try her the coimba protocol with her the high dose vitamin D that I we presented here a couple of months ago. So, so, okay, so there's a stem cells are better. Okay, and do you have data? So I don't know. Okay, so anyway, they're, they're, they're, that's where we're at. 's where 's those are concerned. Anything you have any ADRDA nattio?

Speaker 7  2:33:38
No, I'm gonna give it away for irritation. Case.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:42
Yeah, okay, okay, so, yeah, we've done ivermectin. We've done fairly high dose ivermectin on her. We've done it all. We've done the mast cell stuff, and she gets a little better, gets a little worse. Somebody asking about the call. Anybody can call me? So, yeah, please have her call me. Do you have my number? Here's my email. This is my phone and my office. Okay, all right, all right, and if I can't help her, we got lots of we got lots of folks that are, you know, we got a lot a lot of good brains here. So, okay, got anything else coming up? Doctor, Doctor Nario.

Speaker 7  2:34:56
My next conference would be, actually, it International. I'm going to be doing a tele, I guess, talk for the Philippines. So that would be in June, getting

Bill Clearfield  2:35:11
that online, or are you going there?

Speaker 7  2:35:13
Oh, no, no, online, it's, it's going to be hard for me to find out.

Bill Clearfield  2:35:17
Okay, okay. And then so Doctor, Doctor Andrews, we got the the longevity conference may 15 to 17th in Dallas, correct? And I'm

Speaker 7  2:35:28
also speaking ammg

Speaker 1  2:35:30
in Las Vegas. I'm in December. I hope that doesn't overlap with your early November, December.

Bill Clearfield  2:35:39
Check the date for 's which one is that,

Speaker 1  2:35:41
ammg, American medical,

Bill Clearfield  2:35:44
no, that's in October. That's that, you know, I'm the, I'm a star there. It's October 7,

Speaker 1  2:35:49
okay, I thought he said December.

Bill Clearfield  2:35:51
Now, I was there two weeks ago, and, you know, I'm, that's, that's my, I'm one of the main, Cocos there. So, well, sort of, sort of a cog. So that's October 7 of 11 's.

Speaker 1  2:36:07
I'm also speaking in Portugal online coming up in a few weeks. Sonny 's actually going to Portugal to attend that conference

Bill Clearfield  2:36:17
at the

Speaker 21  2:36:18
going

Bill Clearfield  2:36:19
to retire. I hear you go to retire there.

Speaker 1  2:36:21
Yeah, I heard the spirit, the life cost very little live there. And then I can't remember all my conferences, but

Bill Clearfield  2:36:31
it's like, okay, oh, by the way, tomorrow night, I'm on. I'm on for Dr farshian. I'm doing Dr far sheep's thing tomorrow night. If you anybody 's got nothing better to do than spend another two hours online here after working all day so, and then I will be at the IFM may 30. I'm doing endocrinology of mental health at IFM, and they're giving me adjective about my slideshow because, you know, I like to make things like colorful and whatnot, and they want everything plain and boring, so I have to dumb it down for them so and so with that, there's the Boston bio Life Summit and may 15 to 17th, IFM is May 27, to the 30th. Dr Nario let you know about his thing, so and so. Thank you all. Anybody else have any, if they have any, and if you're participating anything, please let us know. We can, we can, you know, we can put it in the, in the in the newsletter, the weekly newsletter, you know, the send out to our, you know, we send out 4000 emails four times a week, so somebody looks at it, somebody will look at it at some point. So, so, okay, I think that's quite enough two and a half hours. Thank you all. Any, any last words? Dr Andrews,

Speaker 1  2:38:00
none. Thank you for,

Bill Clearfield  2:38:02
thank you for, thank you for sticking with us, and thank you thank your guests. By the way, you let them know so So Miss Steeler, we're here and your other guests, we're here every Tuesday at five o'clock, same, same. Zoom link. If you're at all interested, let me know. Send us a contact, and we'll make sure you get information on it. Okay, and we want to, I would

Speaker 19  2:38:24
like my brother to get in on this, because he, his daughter is the one with that issue. And I've, I've suggested a couple of things. He, she sees somebody up in Boston, but she, you know, they said she wasn't going to live to be 21 years old. And she's now 22 and she's actually, she's working up at CMV, well, the old CMV now Geisinger, up in Scranton, because she wants to help people that have the same thing that she has. And he technical term of what autoimmune disease she has, I'm not sure, but I would love for Him to give you a call. So I think I will

Bill Clearfield  2:39:11
you tell her she's working at the old CMV. I was a ER doctor at CMV from 1982 to 1988

Speaker 19  2:39:19
my brother's a PA for orthopedic surgeon 's up there.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:24
CMV stands for community Medical Center. It was one of the hospitals in Scranton, so,

Speaker 19  2:39:28
right, but it's Geisinger. Now, Geisinger chicken,

Speaker 2  2:39:31
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:39:31
I know Geisinger 's got everything. Got the medical school

Speaker 19  2:39:34
too. Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:39:36
they do.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:36
I know they're like, they're like, a hydra, you know, taking over.

Speaker 23  2:39:40
Yeah? Right. Okay, but thank you so much. That was great.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:45
Okay, thank you. Okay, all right. Good night, everybody. Jeanette, we'll talk about maybe ranchero also. So I had you know,

Speaker 4  2:39:55
yeah, just let me know.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:57
I'll let you know. Okay, so we're just sort of getting it together now, and we're going to put the program together. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:40:03
whatever.

Speaker 1  2:40:04
Ranchero.

Bill Clearfield  2:40:06
Well, Jeanette has an in at the ranchera. So maybe, you know, we're looking to put, you know, where we're going to have the next one.

Speaker 4  2:40:14
There may be it. May host the next meeting,

Bill Clearfield  2:40:17
yeah,

Speaker 4  2:40:18
the next gathering, conference,

Bill Clearfield  2:40:20
we'll see. We had a we had a little bit of a culture price shock from the last time I ran a thing, which was three years ago, to what that with this hotel cost us this year. So so we'll see. We'll, we'll, we'll, we'll get it all together.

Speaker 4  2:40:37
Did you ever look into the general mind that I mentioned to you the saliva test that tests for genetic SNPs that can be really priceless and helping people with psych issues.

Bill Clearfield  2:40:51
Did I know?

Speaker 2  2:40:52
Yeah, because

Speaker 4  2:40:53
you mentioned you're going to be giving a talk about it.

Bill Clearfield  2:40:55
Well, I'm just talking about I've been doing strictly hormones.

Speaker 4  2:40:59
Yeah, I know, just along for Euro 's interest, was really very helpful,

Speaker 3  2:41:07
okay,

Speaker 24  2:41:07
and, you know, directing care,

Bill Clearfield  2:41:10
okay, alright. Do you have a have a contact for

Speaker 4  2:41:16
them? Not a direct contact. I don't think I have a rep or anything. Just general mind.com

Bill Clearfield  2:41:21
general line. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:41:22
so

Speaker 4  2:41:22
I haven't run me here, I don't think

Bill Clearfield  2:41:25
okay.

Speaker 4  2:41:26
So yes, cheek swab. I think it also helps with taking some of the blame away. When people have psych issues, like, if they've got a snip that's, you know, causing things to happen in their brains, it helps take away some of the blame.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:42
Yeah. Well, we that we know, so,

Speaker 4  2:41:47
yeah, but it helps them,

Bill Clearfield  2:41:49
yeah? Well, when we find out they have thyroid issues, and that's why they're they're, you know,

Speaker 4  2:41:53
autoimmune back in the old days, they used to treat bipolar with Vitreoretinal

Bill Clearfield  2:41:59
you can't do that now. We, we went to the we went to you. You missed the endocrine conference.

Speaker 4  2:42:05
Oh, that's true. I did, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:07
the endocrinology for an non endocrinologist at the at the Atlantic.

Speaker 4  2:42:10
I'm sorry about that. I really wanted to

Speaker 2  2:42:13
go.

Speaker 19  2:42:13
First

Bill Clearfield  2:42:13
thing they told us was, anybody who orders a reverse t3 is is an internet idiot?

Speaker 4  2:42:20
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:21
no. Endocrinologist orders a reverse t3 and nobody needs iodine.

Speaker 4  2:42:26
Oh, boy, yeah, even though, even if they're not eating iodine salt anymore, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:42:32
Yeah. I mean, I had somebody today, we were doing iodine levels on everybody, at least

Speaker 2  2:42:37
do

Speaker 4  2:42:37
a urine like

Bill Clearfield  2:42:38
I got a zero.

Speaker 4  2:42:40
You did,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:41
yeah, not me. I mean, the patient,

Speaker 4  2:42:42
a patient, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:44
and I died of zero, right?

Speaker 4  2:42:46
Wow,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:47
and it was triple checked, so I guess, I guess they don't need that, right?

Speaker 4  2:42:53
No, not really. I mean, they're walking around, breathing and talking, right? So,

Speaker 2  2:42:57
yeah,

Speaker 4  2:42:57
they don't need it. They have zero,

Bill Clearfield  2:43:01
fine, okay. All right, we'll talk. It's getting late. We'll talk about that another time.

Speaker 4  2:43:05
All right, sounds good. Good

Bill Clearfield  2:43:06
night everybody. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yes, Dr Andrews and sunny and we'll, we'll be speaking with you shortly. Good night everybody. Next week. Patient, her first name is Paisley, by the way,

Speaker 2  2:43:20
so

Bill Clearfield  2:43:20
we're gonna have Paisley on, and she's 11 years old, so

Speaker 4  2:43:25
looking forward to it.

Bill Clearfield  2:43:26
Yep, we'll talk to you. We'll talk to you. Then, okay, good night everybody.

Speaker 4  2:43:30
Good night. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai