Bill Clearfield  00:35
Okay, how you doing there, Nicholas,

Speaker 1  00:41
muted. Here

Speaker 2  00:45
we go,

Bill Clearfield  00:46
there we go. Okay, we have a few minutes, we'll just chill out. Okay,

Speaker 2  00:52
okay. My images are my pictures, okay?

Bill Clearfield  00:56
You look fabulous, you look fabulous. You're ready for your Hollywood close up,

Speaker 1  01:00
you

Bill Clearfield  01:03
so yeah, and I

Speaker 2  01:05
have the ability to share, right,

Bill Clearfield  01:06
exactly, yeah,

Speaker 2  01:07
okay,

Speaker 1  01:08
yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  01:16
so start filtering, and we usually end up with anywhere from 40 to 80, depending. Oh, wow.

Speaker 2  01:22
All right. Good. Great. Yeah. Have a presentation I put together on a slideshow, so I can last for this stuff. It's about 2530 minutes, and opens for questions. So,

Speaker 3  01:33
okay. All right. Okay, so do

Bill Clearfield  01:52
I'll be back in. Just show them your handsome, handsome, I'm I think Uh, Bob, do you think we could get you one again? I think we had your one a while ago, didn't we, with the C 60 some somebody,

Speaker 4  02:52
yeah, it was a while ago, but I'm back.

Bill Clearfield  02:55
Okay, you think we can have you on, say, in maybe two or three weeks,

Speaker 4  03:02
yeah, sure,

Bill Clearfield  03:03
the 16th, the

Speaker 4  03:06
16th,

Bill Clearfield  03:07
yeah,

Speaker 4  03:10
all right. Let me put it in my calendar. I don't know how to run a PowerPoint from here, but I'll figure that out, I guess.

Bill Clearfield  03:20
You can't do it. If you have one, just send it to me, and I'll run it, and you just tell me when to go next. Okay?

Speaker 4  03:26
Got one loaded up, but I'll figure it out. But yeah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  03:29
Usually, you just shared a screen, and we hit share screen, and you can, you can do it yourself. But if you, you know, send me the slides, and I'll, and I'll do it, you know. You just say, "Go, I

Speaker 4  03:43
got share right here. Yeah, I see the share button.

Bill Clearfield  03:46
Yeah, yeah, that's it. And then whatever's on your screen on your desktop will show up.

Speaker 4  03:51
Excellent, perfect.

Bill Clearfield  03:56
Even I was able to figure that one out.

Speaker 4  03:58
Me, I'm technical. I'm a computer challenged.

Bill Clearfield  04:03
Well, we'll, we'll get you there. So,

Speaker 4  04:08
all right. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  04:10
I don't know where some of our regulars aren't on yet. So, so normally, Nicholas, we have Dr. Nario tells us he's taking the Integrative Medicine Fellowship at University of Arizona with Andrew Weil. He usually gives us a tip of the week, that way with the rest of us don't have to go take the class, so

Speaker 2  04:35
there you go.

Bill Clearfield  04:39
But he's not on yet. Neither, neither is Joel. So

Speaker 3  04:46
let me get your intro here. Okay, let's see, I so Mario's not on, Joel's not on, so I

Bill Clearfield  05:47
Here's that scenario I'm

Speaker 5  06:08
Hey, how's the superstar?

Bill Clearfield  06:10
Hey, you know, I was a big hit. So, those of you don't know, I was this past weekend I was in San Diego at the IFM International Comm. conference, we had 1300 people there.

Speaker 5  06:25
How international

Bill Clearfield  06:27
internet AIC, they call it, you know, annual international conference. Yeah, they're a little bit full of themselves.

Speaker 5  06:40
They're not here. A

Bill Clearfield  06:41
lot of the lectures weren't really to my liking. There was a lot of politically correct stuff, which I thought, you know, in the lecture, you know, like the conferences that we do, we stay away from, you know, that kind of stuff. You know, we

Speaker 5  06:56
do.

Bill Clearfield  06:57
Well, you know, we, I, you know, we always, we, you know, I always want to be able to, you know, have our folks, you know, have stuff they can use, you know, use for their clinical practices when we're done with them, you know. And I don't know, they spent time with functional medicine and the homeless person, things like that. I guess it's kind of an issue, but you know, I don't know, I don't know what I could do about it.

Speaker 5  07:24
Hey, yeah, it's applying it in so many different levels, I guess.

Bill Clearfield  07:29
Yeah, so, but I mean, the staff there, they were very nice to me, and I had, I had, you know, it was, it was a pretty, pretty decent time, they were a pain in the neck with my slides. I had to redo them five or six times, and they're very.. they're sticklers on. You can't have too much information on any slide. All of all the printing has to be white. You can't.. they don't want any color at all. All the print has to be white if you have a dark background or black if you have a white background. And that's

Speaker 5  08:01
it. Hey, it must be good if you really want to nitpick at that,

Bill Clearfield  08:05
and I muted you, Dr. Nick. I muted you, Dr.

Speaker 5  08:10
Yes. Okay, you should. I talk a lot sometimes,

Bill Clearfield  08:13
and the, you know, for me, again, the clinical stuff is, it was the best, best talk. So, and I, I told them when I gave my talk, I, you know, this slide where you have the objectives, I, I put on, I put in an extra one that wasn't written on the slide. I told them that my objective, my fifth objective, was that it was going to be the best talk of the whole week, that's what they, that's what they were going to put in their evaluations, so be

Speaker 5  08:48
better, we're going to run after them,

Speaker 6  08:51
yeah, to give

Speaker 5  08:51
you a bad evaluation,

Bill Clearfield  08:52
yeah. So I don't think I'm going to get invited back, though. You know, the person who invited me had only been with them for a month, and he got fired about three weeks before the conference.

Speaker 5  09:04
It's going to be the audience is going to ask for you.

Bill Clearfield  09:07
Audience is going to be clamoring. Yeah, in fact, I have a picture. I should put it up of afterwards. I had a, I had a whole entourage of groupies, and I actually, I was, I was talking outside the lecture hall after my talk for over almost a half hour, considering considering that the whole talk only lasted 45 minutes. That's pretty

Speaker 5  09:30
a traffic jam. Everybody wants to go to the exhibit hall, but your crowd's blocking

Bill Clearfield  09:35
it. Yeah, well, no. So the exhibit hall in this hotel was on the first floor, and the lectures were on the second floor, so, so they were, they were kind of separated, so, but it was interesting, I mean, it was an, it was, it was a, it was a, they were pretty nice, everybody there was pretty nice to me, even though no one had seen me before, and when they saw the letters after my name, they know what the a 4m letters are, not

Speaker 5  10:02
really Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  10:03
So, well, those other people. I said, well, I didn't know they've been around since 2003 apparently. So, they've been around for a while too.

Speaker 5  10:13
They're not against each other. I don't think they have a beef.

Bill Clearfield  10:16
No, I thought one was was one one of the one of the other. Did

Speaker 5  10:20
they say, were they blatantly saying that

Bill Clearfield  10:23
I didn't mention it at all. Actually, you know, usually the other places, they, you know, like AMMG, what was was part of, part of a for M too, and you know, now they're not, so, and you know, a for M kicked Pam Smith out, and she was, she was at AMMG last time.

Speaker 5  10:44
Hey, we're open to anybody. I'll bring you back in there if you want. We're

Bill Clearfield  10:47
open to.. and so I sent them, you know, you know, because you know my mother always, always taught me, you know, I sent them a thank you, you know, and said that, you know, was would be happy to participate again. And at the end of it, I said, you know, we do this webinar on Tuesday nights, and we're great to partner with somebody that has a real mailing list.

Speaker 6  11:08
Not the answer,

Bill Clearfield  11:11
right? The answer I got back from one of the big shots was, thank you, everybody liked your talk, but as you can imagine, there are a lot of people who want to speak here, so that's why I think I'm not going to be invited back. Thanks. See you.

Speaker 5  11:26
Their loss, I'm telling you,

Bill Clearfield  11:29
lost exactly the loss, exactly.

Speaker 5  11:31
About it,

Bill Clearfield  11:32
so that was my first if

Speaker 5  11:35
not bad.

Speaker 1  11:37
Yeah,

Speaker 5  11:38
it's encouraging,

Bill Clearfield  11:42
so right, I think we need to send Dr. Tanno next time, and he'll, he'll, he'll really well.

Speaker 5  11:48
Now you're gonna send the big guns,

Bill Clearfield  11:49
yeah, we gotta send, yeah, the big boss, you know, the big boss,

Speaker 5  11:53
he'll, he'll crush it,

Bill Clearfield  11:55
yeah. So all right, we could send you, but you know, you're part of the that other camp, you know, you're gonna

Speaker 5  12:01
throw tomatoes already.

Bill Clearfield  12:03
Well, that's what I told him. I said, I said, I, but it has to be asked for that crowd. It has to be organic tomatoes,

Speaker 5  12:10
and the homeless will be throwing tomatoes at you too.

Bill Clearfield  12:14
Yeah, not just any tomato tomatoes, but organic tomatoes. Every, everything was organic there.

Speaker 5  12:20
They're big with regenerative farming over there,

Bill Clearfield  12:22
all that stuff.

Speaker 5  12:24
Yep, I know. I've been there, that's not it.

Bill Clearfield  12:26
All that stuff that Burgess likes, you know.

Speaker 5  12:30
Hey, fun times in IFM, Mox.

Bill Clearfield  12:34
It was fine, you know. It was, it was fine. I mean, it was like $1,200 if I had to pay to go to just for the conference, and then you know, then you got to pay for the hotel room, was about $500 a night.

Speaker 5  12:46
Oh, you're not free, even though you were. Oh, no,

Bill Clearfield  12:48
I am. Yeah, I was free. Yeah, but I mean, if I had to pay for it,

Speaker 5  12:52
you paid still. That's really, hey, let's pull you out of there.

Bill Clearfield  12:57
I mean, all these conferences are ridiculously expensive anymore. I think, what's his name, the peptide guys this week, and he wants 1600 bucks, and

Speaker 5  13:07
who's this old horse?

Bill Clearfield  13:10
No seeds,

Speaker 5  13:12
oh, seeds, yeah, that's that's been like that, so that's not the

Bill Clearfield  13:17
ozone guy, you know, that we've had one,

Speaker 5  13:22
Shallenberg,

Bill Clearfield  13:23
yeah, his was 2200

Speaker 5  13:25
yeah. I mean, I don't know if you're talking about the workshop, he has it,

Bill Clearfield  13:30
was he has the memory I talked at his last year.

Speaker 5  13:34
Oh, yeah, we get free tickets for that, so

Bill Clearfield  13:38
you do

Speaker 5  13:39
well. No, if you get to speak

Bill Clearfield  13:42
last year, I got to speak, but if I don't speak, that's what I said. If I don't, if I'm not speaking, I'm not going. I can't afford it. You don't

Speaker 5  13:51
have to. All right, you're the man.

Bill Clearfield  13:54
We have a couple of guests with us here, and I think we're scaring them away here. So, it's a bit after five. We have a fair crowd here. So, Dr. Nario, why don't you give us our tip of the week here?

Speaker 5  14:04
Alright, okay. So, most of us know culture scene as a gout medication, but over the past several years it has emerged as one of the most compelling anti-inflammatory therapies in cardiovascular medicine. So, this is again something that we were exploring in the Andrew Well Integrative Medicine Medical class. So, what makes cultures particularly interesting is that it targets a fundamental driver of atherosclerosis, which is inflammation. We now understand that coronary artery disease is not simply a cholesterol storage disorder, but also a plaque progression and rupture involve activation of neutrophils, macrophages, IL 1b IL six, and even NLRP inflammasome. So, this is the one that's important. So, low dose colchicine suppresses these pathways by this disrupting the microtubule function and reducing inflammasome activation. So, in essence, it targets residual inflammatory risk, a major contributor to cardiovascular events, despite optimal LDL control, so the studies, the landmark ones, Lodoco two, and almost over enrolled over 5500 patients with stable coronary artery disease, and used colchicine 0.5 milligrams. The results showed 31% relative reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events reduced myocardial infarction, reduced ischemic stroke, reduced coronary vascularization, and similarly, the Colcott trial demonstrated a 23% reduction in major CV events when colchicine was started shortly after MIS. So, these findings led to growing recognition of inflammation as a therapeutic target in secondary prevention, so what's particularly attractive from an integrative medicine perspective is that patients may receive additional benefits from the same low dose therapy. First, colchicine has decades of evidence for gout. We already know that many patients with CAD also have hyperuricemia or recurrent gout and experience fewer flares while taking this small dose, second studies constantly demonstrates reductions inflammatory biomarkers, including HSCRP, IL six, and IL 1b So, this supports the concept that we're treating systemic inflammation, not simply cardiovascular disease. And third, emerging observational studies suggest potential musculus level benefits. Some cohorts have reported 12 to 23% reduction in joint replacement risk, particularly in patients with OAS, osteoarthritis, and gout overlap. So, while not yet definitive, it's an intriguing area of investigation. So, my takeaway here is when we have aspirin, right, as always, kind of like our cardiovascular protector, low dose colchicine represent one of the most cost-effective anti-inflammatory interventions available for secondary cardiovascular prevention. So, as integrated physicians, we already focus on reducing inflammation through nutrition, exercise, sleep, weight management, and even omega three therapies. Cochrane may be a useful pharmaceutical adjunct for appropriate patients would establish ASCVD, and as we've learned from Lodoco two and CalCOT, lowering LDL is important, but reducing inflammation may be equivalently, equivocally important for preventing the next cardiovascular event, and perhaps the best part, your patient may protect your coronary arteries while simultaneously preventing a gap flare. So this is like why I brought that up, is because if you have patients, the one that I see this useful with was when I have patients with high CAC scores, so the ones that are really like in the hundreds, and they, you don't know what to do, you're not going to go wrong with a culture scene on board, unfortunately, the one in the market that is 0.5 milligrams is very expensive. If you don't have insurance, so the option for clinicians out there is using the 0.6 daily that these patients can utilize. That's your leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  17:55
How long? How long are you supposed to use this for? Like forever.

Speaker 5  17:58
It's like an aspirin, so it's basically there, so the key here is you can't compare it to aspirin. Aspirin is lowering down the platelet activation, but this one is actually for the NLRP inflammasome, so it's an anti so patients with a high HSCRP with ASCVD can benefit from using low dose cochosin, so it's almost like an aspirin daily type of intake.

Bill Clearfield  18:23
Okay, and it works by inhibiting the cytokines you mentioned, correct?

Speaker 5  18:29
Yep, the inflammators, that's why all the other OAs, gouts, it's like hitting two birds with one stone, especially for these patients.

Bill Clearfield  18:37
I remember back in the back in the day when I had dark hair and a beard and no wrinkles yesterday,

Bill Clearfield  18:44
I never, yeah, and there were no cholesterol drugs, you know. Colchicine was really cheap, and we would use it, zero, I think, 0.6 milligrams every two hours for acute gout attack,

Speaker 5  18:54
right? Right, and that's one of the major concerns in Wilkes

Bill Clearfield  18:57
Barre PA. There was lots of gout attacks,

Speaker 5  19:01
sure, you're not going to get the diarrhea. Then

Bill Clearfield  19:03
something happened to it, and it sort of disappeared, and it came back as a some drug company got it as a trade name, and it went from like $10 for 30 pills to $300 for 30 pills, or something. Has it has it been generic again, or no?

Speaker 5  19:30
No. So the one that I'm talking about, this is actually the branded culture scene, 0.5 So they made into a study, and that's what the Colcot study was to brand this, and they have patent for this, so that's why you're going to pay what, two, $300 if you're out of pocket, if you're not going to get through insurance, that's why the trick here is use the 0.6 which is generic, and that's going to be just like a few dollars every month, so don't use the 0.5 0.6

Bill Clearfield  19:58
you know, the 0.61 it disappeared for a long time, it was like out here. I don't, I hardly ever seek out, but back home, I mean, it was pretty common, you know. There was, you know, coal miners and drinkers, and you know, Polushky type folks, eating type folks are

Speaker 5  20:18
little bougie, you know,

Bill Clearfield  20:21
you don't know the Northeast Pennsylvania type,

Speaker 5  20:28
you got the men, men, the

Bill Clearfield  20:30
men, men. Yes. Okay. Should I add

Speaker 7  20:34
something to that? Yes, please

Bill Clearfield  20:36
do. Carol,

Speaker 7  20:36
call to scene is a zinc ionophore, so is ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine. hydroxychloroquine azithromycin green tea all of them?

Speaker 5  20:48
It was part of the RGCC. Oh, sorry, FLCC protocol when COVID came out. That's right.

Speaker 7  20:54
Yep, yep.

Bill Clearfield  20:57
Okay. Great. All right. So tonight I had my lost it here. Okay, here it goes. Tonight we have a special guest, Nicholas St. John in AMD. Did I get that right? You're muted. You're muted, Nicholas. Yeah, did I get right? Yeah, and it's a joke. Don't, don't, yeah, don't, don't tell them what it is. Let's see if someone can come up with what it is. That's his degree. And so Nicholas has been in the involved with colloidal silver all the way back in 1998 He built colloidal silver generators, and he wrote four books, including his latest, The Immunity Crisis in America. He's done over 150 TV shows. He hosts the Health Cure Radio Show on Voice of America Radio Network. He speaks about the immune system. He's a private health, has a private health association. In January 2022 after there was an anthrax combined with new variant of COVID, almost killed them. Develop the developer of six cancer destruction kits, a powerful flu Colds kit, and the Emergency Plandemic kit, and the Revolutionary stroke reversal kit, so you're going to tell us all about that stuff, right? His work centers on bridging the gap between patients, healthcare providers, and emerging innovations in medicine. He combines practical health education with patient-centered approach, and he's become a respected voice of discussion surrounding chronic disease prevention in the long term with us. I'm going to let you toot your own horn after that, Nicholas. And thank you for being with us. Thank you.

Speaker 2  22:49
Yeah, thank you for having me. And I got quite a distinguished group here, and so I appreciate you giving me the time to talk to so many across the country. So, thank you

Bill Clearfield  23:01
more than welcome.

Speaker 2  23:03
Let me get my sheet screen shared here. Let's see. Let's get this started.

Bill Clearfield  23:13
So you hit the center of the share there. That should do it.

Speaker 2  23:16
Yeah, I just want to make sure I'm on the right screen, do I seem to have a bunch of windows open on top of this. I close those down, all right, I All

Bill Clearfield  23:44
right, there we go.

Speaker 2  23:45
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  23:47
we're getting there.

Speaker 2  23:48
All right, so all right, so everybody should be able to see that. So here we go. So let's get started on this. So we developed what's called a cancer destruction kits, and yes, cancer sounds like cancer, because that's what it is, but it keeps us off the radar, right? So I'm going to cover a number of things: early warning, prevention, and our journey, how we got here, the destruction kits, a little bit more about Alt One, and the testimonials. So this is my background. I'm not going to go through that again, but appreciate it. You guys let me come in and speak. So, about cancer, we know that it's a devastating disease. 1.8 million typically are diagnosed each year in America, and that puts about 1.8 million in 2026 Of that, 1.8 million 608,000 will die in the next 12 months, and that will be people who will do exactly what their oncologists tell them to do anyway. The numbers aren't very good. I don't know exactly what the number is, but I've heard it's roughly 70% of those who diagnose will be dead in five years, not a great track record, so the conventional treatment we know chemo, radiation, immunotherapies, and of course hospice, they've, they've added, you know, making you comfortable until you die as a treatment, which I'm not sure why that's the treatment, but that's listed, so using the medical industrial complexes standard treatments is 34.8% will will die anyway in the first 12 months, doing like said exactly what their oncologists have told them to do, which is to me not an acceptable rate for, for what you know, for trying to survive this stuff, and I do want to say that, you know the COVID 19 was really the beginning of a great awakening for us, for those of us who are in the alternative health practices that really started getting a lot of people's attention, and while not as many as we'd all like to have to have come over, there's a lot of people who have learned to distrust the internal and allopathic medical options, and it's becoming glorious and epidemic, but in, you know, in a good way, and a change for for those of us who believe those good solid alternative ways to come at come at various diseases and help people have a more productive and a greater quality of life, Doctors Macus, Corey, a guy that goes by AMD, a Midwestern doctor, and others are publishing articles on their sub stacks at record numbers these days. If you're not following some of these guys, Mackus and Corey, of course, are very well named, known names, and they're producing, they're producing a lot of articles these days, as well as the forefront of these discussions, is of course Bendazole and Ivermectin, which I'll get into in greater detail. Now, this came from Joe Tippins, who's been really the guy who's been blazing the trail for Fen Bendazole since 2017 I don't know how many of you know of his story, but I recommend it. And on our website, I think we have links to all of his blog and information about what he went through. It's quite a story, and so we're glad that he survived, and that, you know, he had a 1% chance of living after they gave him chemo and radiation, 90% or 1% chance of living past 90 days, and ended up he, of course, he's still with us, and he ended up while he was on a special medication, all the other people that were on that medication, that trial ended up passing away, except Joe, and when he ended up meeting with his doctor there at Anderson, he finally let the cat out of the bag, because he wasn't sharing this stuff with anybody, especially not in the medical, because he was afraid of what they were going to do to either stifle it or keep him from doing it, or just try to dissuade him. Some early warnings, C reactive protein. I've been talking about this for probably 1518 years. C reactive protein tests. Now, these I believe should be done yearly to monitor increases in body inflammation markers. Now I asked a doctor for one time at the VA, and they said, well, that won't tell you anything. I said, well, it won't tell you anything.

Speaker 2  28:20
It'll tell me I've got an increase in inflammation, and maybe we should start looking somewhere, and so I, you know, it's like an engine light on your car, it won't tell you what's wrong, but it'll tell you maybe you should pull over and start looking, and so I had a good friend back in Wichita who had been complaining of headaches for two years, and she'd been seeing her doctor for every about once a month for every two years, and then one day I called her husband, answered the phone. I said, "You know, how's.. you know, can I speak to Diane? He goes, "Well, she's very sick. I said, "Well, I know she's been struggling with headaches. He goes, "No, she's been given three weeks to live. She has cancer. And I believe that had they been doing inflammation checking inflammation markers that they probably would have seen those skyrocketing maybe a year or more earlier, instead by the time there was symptoms that they could diagnose, she ended up dying in three weeks after they had done that, so anyway another was thermography, and while a lot of people know of it, it doesn't seem to be used a lot, and so you know we're encouraging everyone that we know in our organization to do thermography. It is hands down a better early warning method over mammograms and prostate exams. Now, Thermography can show breast tumors three to five years earlier than mammograms. It's noninvasive with literally zero chance of creating tumor spreading opportunities when they mash the breast tissue between two plates, and then they radiate it. That can actually break a tumor in parts, and then it can spread into other parts of the body, which is never a good idea, right? We have a recommendation here, if you guys want, you know, we can get this information to Dr. Clearfield, and he can pass this on to you, Dr. Martin Stivers, he's been doing mammograms for probably 30 years or more. Here's his number: he operates here in Carson City, and right now,

Bill Clearfield  30:28
thermograms, not mammograms,

Speaker 2  30:30
I'm sorry, thermography, yeah. And so he does thermograms, and he's very good. I've sent a number of people to him, and they just love him. Nationwide, there's an organization called Bras Thermography, and so I worked with them. I worked with them when I was back in Wichita. So, prevention.. there's about 1000 things you can do, but these are kind of the basics, you know. Cancer cells love sugar, and so obviously cutting down sugar is a great idea, and it's a great idea anyway, because this stuff is just so bad for us. I get away from processed foods, stay active, even if you're just out walking daily. If you're out walking, obviously in the summer you're going to get some sunshine, so if you can get 15 minutes of sunshine daily, that'd be great. Quit using plastic containers, especially the black plastics. They are so horrible at putting these chemicals into our foods, and it's amazing how much stuff comes in black plastic. They tell you to put in a microwave, which is absolutely the worst of all conditions. Purified and distilled water, I don't do, I don't drink anything except distilled water, and of course, we add in various nutrients back into it, because when you distill it, everything goes away, but that way I make sure that I'm not getting anything in. Of course, if you've seen any of these studies or information about the water that the cities are preparing, there's all kinds of stuff that's still in there, all kinds of drugs, and, and you know, toxins that are still in that water that's coming out of our taps, so you can get away from that. Of course, don't use, don't get bottled water, invariably, there's no regulation on that, it could be anything, and so purified or distilled water that you have control of, and of course, organic everything if possible. I know that it's more expensive, and a lot of people can't afford it, but whatever you can afford, and you can get away from the processed foods and things that have, you know, glyphosate and and hormones and all that stuff to antibiotics to protect it, so anyway, those are some basics. I recommend 3000 milligrams of vitamin C a day, typically to start out with. Most people are going to have to take that in divided doses, but this is a number that Dr. Cough, Lance Pauling, and Dr. Robert Kleiner came through, came to, they all came to that kind of same conclusion that we need typically about 3000 milligrams a day. The RDA is a measly 90 milligrams, so that's enough to keep you from having scurvy, but it's certainly not anywhere near in which most few guys are are part of the let's not just do the minimum, let's do things for optimal health. 5000 international units of vitamin D, and of course, that always comes with the disclaimer that you know, be careful about hitting toxicity, but you know, I did 20,000 international units a day for six months and never hit toxicity, and so most Americans are very low, you should be up around 72 to 76 in the readings for 2508 the serum amygdalin, which is what I learned by, but it's B 17 Laetrile from bitter apricot seeds, and so G. Edward Griffin talked about taking a few of those a day a week, and then you can take the capsules, 100 milligram capsule a day, or you know, every two or three days, and he believes that that will safeguard you from getting cancer as well. How did we get here? So I was stricken, as Doc said back in 2021 with what some believe was anthrax, and on top of that I got the new variant. I don't know, there, there was, you know, mu, there wasn't a variant that went crazy like the delta variant did back in those days. So, how I ended up with Anthrax and mu is unknown around a large patriot organization. Some people believe I was actually targeted. It's hard for me to believe I was actually that influential that someone would go to that extent, but it's a possibility. So that was in September.

Speaker 2  34:52
I was literally on my deathbed for 21 days, ended up 11,000 milliliters of monoclonal infusion, three four pass ozone therapies, 100,000 milligrams, vitamin C IVs, ivermectin, hydroxychloroquine, along with, you know, just about everything else I could do to keep from pushing up daisies, and other than the good Lord just simply keeping me alive, I probably should have been dead, because every time people were afraid to call me, because they're afraid that I was dead, when people would come over to bring me things, of course, I wasn't eating, but you know, when they bring medication or therapeutics, they would, they didn't want to get near me, they said I just looked so bad, and so anyway, I obviously survived, and as a result we had trouble getting therapeutics, I think, and it was very expensive. So when I got done, I felt like the Lord say that He wanted me to form an organization that wasn't going to be, wasn't, you know, would keep people from having that kind of an issue, so in January 22 we formed Alt One as a private health association. Here we are, four and a half years later. We now have over 500 members nationwide in a private association who now have access to therapeutics that were previously virtually unattainable. Three years ago, I got approached repeatedly by people looking for help to treat cancer, and I, that wasn't, you know, part of what I was, you know, when I started this, that's not what I was expecting to do, but here we are, and hundreds of hours researching blogs, article reading articles, academic papers, videos, and I formulated a simple eight product kit to destroy cancer cells. Alt one now has six kits. We have the minimalist minimalist kit, which is a kind of a sampling starter kit. We have one designed for stage 123, and four. And then we have the super destruction kit. The minimalist kit is a two week kit design with plenty of power, but it's limited just for two week protocols for people who you know aren't sure about alternative, but they would like to try something, and so we formed that, and we've had a few people that have gotten on that kit. The super destruction kit is the stage four kit with additional chlorine dioxide solution, almost double all therapeutics, and we added Ivermectin to those kits. So, here are what our typical kits contain: fenbendazole, B 17 laetrile, vitamin C powder, vitamin D with k2 curcumin, chlorine dioxide solution, dandelion extract, DMSO, which is Dimethyl sulfoxide, and then the super kit has Ivermectin fenbendazole, we patterned our protocols after Joe Tipps' protocols, and we paired it with what they recommend for synergistics of vitamin C, D, and curcumin, amygdalin, or B 17 laetrile, we looked at the successes from Dr. Richardson and Manner over in the Bay Area in the 70s, and that ended up prompting further investigation after I watched a video of John Richardson Jr. on a podcast, and I looked at it and found out that when I, because it sounded too good to be true, right, this guy is using apricot seeds and curing cancer, of course. He got raided, I think, eight times, thrown in prison, and ended up having to take his office down to Tijuana. So I ended up attending once I got in contact with them. They wanted me to come to Arizona, come to their A World Without Cancer seminar in november 24 where I got to meet a lot of great people looking for alternatives, and were familiar with the B 17 Laetrile stuff that they were doing, and so I started carrying the RNC brand of Laetrile, including the meal, the 100 milligram, 500 milligram, and of course the liquid, which there's not a lot of folks out there that are doing IVs with liquid laetrile, but that's got some extreme, you know, it's extremely powerful. And there is one clinic here in Reno that I know of, that's doing three, six, and nine gram IVs, and they combine it with DMSO and vitamin C. Now, I was slow to warm up to vitamin C, but after studying Dr. Linus Pauling's work, felt it warrant addition to our kids as well. Same thing with vitamin D and curcumin.

Speaker 2  39:32
Actually, I had a friend who used high dose curcumin to rid herself of stage four breast cancer, and that's all she used, and so in just a few months she actually eradicated stage four breast cancer just using curcumin, but she was taking a lot of it. A chlorine dioxide solution - this is something I wish I'd known about when I had COVID. My illness probably would have been much shorter. CDS was a primary therapy for people with COVID, and it saved countless lives. And a lot of people come back to me and say, 'You know, you probably saved my husband or my wife or my kid or my brothers' life with what you brought to us. And those days it was primarily CDs, because we hadn't started getting our hands on Ivermectin yet, because cancer cells are anaerobic, CDS is ideal to fight these what I call zombie cells with increased oxygen levels. It's like a hyperbaric chamber without the chamber. You can dump a lot of oxygen into the bloodstream using CDS, and it can be taken orally, you can do it topically, you can do bath soaps, which I'm a huge fan of, and all these ways is to get strong, the strong oxidizer into the body to destroy toxins, germs, parasites, and any number of things, and so while it doesn't cure anything, what it does is it gets rid of all of this stuff, so the body can take care of itself. We ended up adding dandelion extract. The papers being published on the benefits of dandelion extract warned that are adding it to the kit. I think it was Dr. Johnson. I read his paper and it made a really strong case, and I was very impressed with what it could do. We found that dandelion extract that included not just the root but also the leaves and flower made it a high-powered combination, that's that's the extract that we use. It attacks the zombie cell six different ways, which I wasn't aware of before, to induce cell suicide, or apoptosis, as you guys are familiar with, as well as reducing growth and inhibiting metastasization, so DMSO, Dimethyl sulfoxide, is a byproduct of making paper, and has been used mostly against the will of the FDA, because they outlawed it for 30 years of any testing on humans whatsoever, and it's been used for a lot of medical situations. There's a. so I'm going to give you a website to go to to watch the interview with Dr. Stanley Jacob, who's one of the big pioneers of it. DMSO is a super carrier, it combines both water and fat soluble elements. We especially like it for carrying fenbendazole, Laetrile, and CDs through the tumor shell and into the heart of the tumor. Now, the shell, there's different theories on the shell, and it is that the tumor is kind of hiding itself from the body, or perhaps it's the body that's that's kind of encapsulating the tumor, so trying to contain it, whichever it is, it doesn't make any difference. It just makes it hard to treat, and so the shell can make chemo, a, you know, it can be chemo can be, it can be resistant against chemo. Well, when you combine it with DMSO, all sudden that changes the game. I'd recommend watching Dr. Stanley Jacobs' 19 8060 minutes interview, and you can find that at Cancer K A N N S I r.com forward slash DMSO, and that video's on that page. If you haven't seen that, I recommend it for everyone, because it's very impressive, especially the people, how seriously ill or wounded or crippled people were, and what they were able to do to recover ivermectin. We don't include that in in our standard kits, because I only wanted to have products in that kit that had proven track rt against all types of cancers. Typically, the internal allopathic, they want to know what kind of cancer it is, and because of the drugs, are a lot of, a lot of them are designed specifically for different types of cancer. I want a kit that would, that didn't care, and so then Bendazole really doesn't care.

Speaker 2  43:55
Ivermectin, to some degree, it has so many properties and so many things it does, but it's been proven very effective on certain types of cancers, and we're still gathering data on how many of those others that it is, and we, you know, it's not in our kit, but it's available, someone wants it. We had a young man in Florida that had stage four liver cancer and just a few months to live, it had metastasized to some lymph nodes in his abdomen, and he'd seen enough to know that chemo and radiation was not the route he wanted to go, which we are hearing that story more and more and more. So he got in touch with this buddy of his knew of me and was getting information, getting products from us, and so he got in touch with us, and we put him on the stage four kit, but he decided that wasn't good enough, so he wanted something that was much more aggressive, so he supercharged it, and he added a lot more CDs, DMSO, and 120 milligrams of Ivermectin a day, ended up in 40 days he went back for his next test, and it showed no traces of cancer on his liver. One lymph node was clear, and the tumor on the other was significantly reduced. Within 60 days, it was completely gone. So, he's been cancer-free, even his Cigna Terra signature was zero, which is pretty impressive. It was his success that prompted us to create the super cancer destruction kit, which doubles almost everything, the d the curcumin, everything, and he added we added five bottles of CDs, 32 fluid ounces of DMSO, and 240 12 milligram tablets of ivermectin, which is 96 milligrams a day, and this is this is all the tenet kit. It's, it's a lot, but people, you know, love it, and they, they like the idea that they can go after this aggressively, and Larry, we've not heard of any side effects, negative side effects from this, so you know it's a very safe kit. Even those kind of dosages. Anyone who would like to add Ivermectin to their standard stage kits, they're welcome to do so. It has been shown to be very successful against breast, prostate, and colon cancers, and that list is growing, you know, almost daily, as, as more people hear about it, and try it on their type of cancer, with all the data from Joe Tippens, it shows that these therapies don't interfere with chemo and can be taken alongside if they want to. We don't recommend doing both, but they can, and, and again, Joe proved that you can take this stuff, and he, you know, he's got a website and all kinds of groups and stuff, and there's tons and tons of those stories talking about how they've done both, and it didn't interfere. If someone wants to go ahead and do chemo, we recommend taking DMSO, so that it carries the chemo through the tumor shell and into the tumor, so it can do its effectiveness more. DMSO will also help protect the healthy cells. Turkeytail mushrooms also do a lot of the same thing. Astragas has been around a long time as a Chinese herb that also protects healthy cells, and then CBD oil for internal use to help protect healthy cells and increase chemo effectiveness, as well. We've also developed kits for protection against nonrecurring cancer. When I say none, it's someone who's been given the sign, they're all clear, and they're in remission, but as we all know, the terms get a little bit foggy, right? Someone can, someone can be in remission, and literally, what that means is that the methods that we use to tell if you have cancer or cancer cells in your body is just dropped below the threshold that they can tell anymore, and so if you don't get rid of it, it can come back, which is why they have such a dismal rate, you know, at the five year mark.

Speaker 2  48:08
Alt One is a private health association, which only operates in the private realm and does not consult, advise, or sell to anyone outside of the member association, it affords us protections that can't be obtained in the public realm without state-issued privileges in the form of a license, right, which you guys all have, which are severely limiting and restricted, and if you don't act the way they want to, they can come and get it, which we saw in the COVID days of threats on that, and some of you guys even may be, may have been threatened along those lines for trying to help people, which is what we all are in this for. We are interested in working with all types of doctors and organizations. Some will want to be the treating physician who obtains kids from us, and that's, you know, that's all we do, we, you know, you guys do the diagnosis, you decide what you know the best therapies are, and then if we have a kit that fits what you want, then we ship those kits out, so that's one of the methods, and the other one is that we have guys that you know aren't interested in acquiring the knowledge and don't have the knowledge about all these cancers, and in the alternative treatments, and they just have a tendency just to point someone in our direction. They come to us, we have a little survey that lets us know what kind of cancer, when they got it, when it was diagnosed, if they've had chemo or radiation, if they had the jab, all those things, so we have a lot of information to work with, and then we work with them individually, one on one, and so we have both of those scenarios work for us, and we really don't, you know, we don't really have a preference. Well, to some degree, we don't have a preference. We prefer to be in the kit supplier business, which frees us in our time to build kits to do more research and to expand into other areas, such as in our strokes. We have a stroke reversal kit and looking to build them out for Alzheimers and Parkinson's and any number of things as well. And so that's really our passion, but I said in the process, we, we work individually with a lot of what we call members, because we can't, they're not patients, because we're not doctors. Some of the testimonials, Pasqual had a large tumor on the side of his neck, he did do radio chemo, which reduced it, but when they wanted to do radiation, it was the exercise, it'll, it could fry your esophagus, you, it could, you know, you could end up losing your voice. Well, he was in sales, he said, "I'm not really a fan of losing my voice, and so he contacted us. We put him on the non-recurring kits, and he's been on that for over three years, and he's doing great. Tracy had colorectal cancer, and she was treated with several alternatives, but then eventually they recommended that she do radiation to get rid of the tumors that were in her lymph nodes, and she ended up coming on our stage four kits, and it's completely eradicated. She's been completely cancer-free for probably two, two and a half years now. Ken was a guy that was sent home by the VA to basically die, and given just two to three weeks at most to live. He got on our stage four kid, could feel a tumor in his abdomen shrinking, and lived seven more months when another comorbidity. The guy was 84 years old, he had a lot going on, and we weren't treating everything, we were just trying to treat the cancer. I didn't know about his comorbidities, but after seven months he did die from one of the other comorbidities. But we gave him seven months to extra life. He was able to work with his wife, who was there, trying to prepare her to get into an assisted living place, because she was developing Alzheimers, and so I worked with him and his brother, and they were, you know, extremely grateful that we gave him this extra seven months. I wish it could have been longer, but we gave him seven months that he wouldn't have had otherwise.

Speaker 2  52:13
Jamie has her son had five cancers after radiation previously, apparently the radiation broken into parts, and seven months on the stage four kits doing alongside the seven key, he did chemo as well, and he became completely clear, and he's been clear for over a year now, and he's on our non-recurring kits. Mark was in remission since 2008 but it came back with a vengeance in 23 It was then in four different locations. We got on our stage four kids for six months, and he tested clear. Unfortunately, previous treatments that had damaged his heart, I don't know exactly what those were, but in his sleep he died one night at the age of 57 They went to bed, and his wife woke up the next morning, and he had passed away in his sleep. His heart had stopped. All one is develop professional patient inquiry trifle flyers for your lobby, if you want them interested in having them available for your patients to know this is the this is the outside and then a picture of the inside of it as well. I'm getting ready to have 500 of those printed, so if you're interested in having those, and I will open it up to questions, I

Speaker 5  53:53
Rw, thank you so much for that presentation. That's very interesting, and you brought up a lot of cancer therapies here, that's very familiar with us in terms of the integrative medicine approach, and that's why with your kit it's very interesting that you have all of these specific combinations. So, we.. I don't know if you heard of the RGCC test.

Speaker 2  54:17
I'm not familiar with it. No. So, this

Speaker 5  54:18
is a genetic test that we do here, I have experience with, and they test for all of these, I guess, items on your kit, and it will actually show how effective that is for this specific cancer, and it will give you a percentage on how much we can rely on our suggestions for that, and again, there with this combination, you have majority of them are actually there in that, in that specific selection. So, my question here is, How did you end up selecting these? Because, as being in the integrated field, there are like 1000s of integrated approaches against cancer. Why were these ones chosen by your group,

Speaker 2  55:02
so when I started looking on, you're right, there's an on our website we say there's hundreds of things we could put in the kit, but you know, as I've been involved in a number of industries, one of the things that we found is that if you make so Einstein, I'm a big fan of Einstein, he had a statement. He said make things as simple as possible, but no simpler, right? So we have a tendency to make things complex. I mean, it's amazing you can take something very simple and ends up being complex, and so I wanted something that in my research it showed that this was not any specific cancer dependent, and so, and I wanted something that was relatively inexpensive and easy to put together that wasn't going to, you know, require, you know, you're probably familiar with Chris Beat Cancer, he's got a huge following, and if you've been to any of his on his seminars or anything, he has 100,000 it seems like he has 100,000 things you can do, and I don't know who follows them, because he's got you making three different types of tea at different types of time during the day, and so yes, there's all this stuff, but I wanted something that people would actually do, and for the most part, we found that this kit, with its eight things, or nine things, if you do the super, is manageable, and you, you don't need a, you know, PhD in time management, or any of that stuff, and so you can do these, this kit, and get some spectacular results without having to jump through 1000 hoops, and we wanted something was simple, and so, yes, you could add a lot of things to it. We wanted it to be simple enough that people would actually do

Speaker 5  56:50
it well. And the good thing about your protocol here, it's attacking cancer in different pathways, so that anaerobic pathway, antioxidant pathway, even for the chlorine dioxide, that's really something that I, even for me, it was so new to me that I found out through a patient rather than literature that they're using this not only for cancer, but yeah, you're right, COVID kind of brought that conversation up, and I have been hearing good testimonials about it. I haven't seen studies, to be honest with you, but the testimonials are really bearing weight when you see these people just turn around and you see the good effects about this. Jessica has a question. Go ahead, Jessica, you're gonna mute Jessica. Still on mute.

Speaker 2  57:43
Well, she's trying to figure that out. Let me tell you, guys, now we learn to make our chlorine dioxide solution in house, and we now have the ability to generate nine 400 milliliters bottles of chlorine dioxide solution about every three hours, so we have been able to bring that down to a very short process, and it's very, you know, it's 3000 parts per million, and so we have the ability to make literally 100 bottles a day easy if we needed to. So we've done the work to establish how we can do this, so it works really well. So, all right, Jessica

Speaker 8  58:21
figured it out. My goodness, that was one of the questions I was going to ask. But I also wanted to know, how are you having them do the DMSO? Are they just dropping it in water? Are they rubbing it on some skin, or what is the.. is there instructions in the kits that kind of guide patients?

Speaker 2  58:39
Yes, we have protocols on the website, which I'm gonna give you here in a minute. Actually, let me just go ahead and move that to the next slide. So, there we go. So, if you go to cancer.com each site, each kit has a page, has the products on each one, and it has when you take them, what you take them with, time frames, with or without food, to spread them out through the day, like vitamin C. If you're going to do 2000 milligrams a day, time, you're going to, and you're going to do 8000 milligrams a day. You can't do it at once. So we tell them to take it every two to three hours. Chlorine dioxide solution with DMSO, two hours after dinner or right before bedtime, and DMSO, it's it's up to them how they want to. We recommend DMSO and pomegranate juice with, and so I take my DMSO with CDs right before bed. I do 3030 milliliters of DMSO and 30 milliliters of CDs in cold water, and when it's in cold water, it has almost no taste, either DMSO or the CDS. If you have it in, if you put CDs, and sometimes warm, you will get that taste of the chlorine in it, because it comes out of solution very quickly. So, if you're doing cold water, we understand, and people like DMSO in pomegranate juice. Sometimes, some days I'll take a tablespoon of DMSO and put it in, you know, half a cup of pomegranate juice in the morning, and take that as well. So, there's a number of ways you can do it, DMSO. If you're, if you're taking it topically, typically that's because there's, you know, you have pain, like in an arm or something like that. When you take it for pain on something, you're going to apply it, typically you can combine it with something else, depending on again what you're trying to do, but we can, we take and mix it with water, 20% water, 80% DMS, so seems to be the optimal amount of ratio for to absorb into the skin the best, so again we have those protocols on cancer.com and tell you, know let them know how to take it. We do have a parasite cleanse kit that actually incorporates the bath, but if someone doesn't like the taste of chlorine dioxide solution, we recommend doing a bath once or twice a week, so because that absorbs straight into the through the, you know, the pores into the capillaries, and you can put a ton of chlorine dioxide and all that extra oxygen in your bloodstream through a bath soak.

Speaker 8  1:01:38
Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 5  1:01:40
It's great that you mentioned about DMSO here. So, it has a moniker, it's called the Great Carrier, right? The reason for that is it's actually a small polar molecule that quickly crosses the skin barrier, and within minutes, and it disrupts the lipid structure of cell membranes temporarily and reversibly, so allowing it to carry the dissolved substances along with it, and deliver it wherever it needs to go, and we do it this, we do this IV, we have topical versions of this, but yeah, you won't go wrong if you, if you definitely have DMSO on board, and you have the other components that you just mentioned along with it, so it definitely is synergistic with these other elements that you definitely have another one that I saw a question about is, so this came from Joni. She's asking if you're working with healing for CMV colitis, so that's in the chat.

Speaker 2  1:02:41
You know what, I'm not familiar with that condition, so I.. so we're not yet. Hi. Thank

Speaker 9  1:02:49
you. I'm Joni, or Dr. Collins. Yeah, nice. Is you.. my mom had a bone marrow transplant, was doing amazing, and went with her oncologists' opinion that she should have chemo again, good times, and it's been downhill since then, unfortunately, and she has CMD colitis that's just causing recurrent hospitalization. Super frustrating. I didn't know if anybody had anything. I might as well just give a shout out.

Speaker 2  1:03:19
Well, yeah, given most of the stuff, so if you've not looked at CDs, chlorine dioxide solution that clears the environment of all these toxins, and invariably things like what you just described, it comes from either, you know, probably maybe a parasite, maybe a virus, maybe a toxin, and the toxins can come from anything, right? You can come from painting your house, from your carpet, from, you know, just walking down the sidewalk, and a car drives by, and you breathe a fumes, any that stuff. So we're getting bombarded with toxins constantly. So the really the best thing you can do is get on a CDs regimen to clear the toxins, so the body can then start repairing itself. He gets this step out of the way, and all of a sudden we see these miracles that weren't really miracles. What God designed the body to do, but everything was in the way, right? And so I would start with CDs, and I would always combine, I combine everything with DMSO, just because it makes it so much more effective. It penetrates deeper into tissues, it gets through membranes that you know, it just wouldn't on its own, or a little bit would, whereas a lot more would get moved into maybe, you know, even through, you know, into your bone marrow, or you know, deeper into the, you know, liver, and all those places that stuff needs to be happening, you know, enzymes, of course, the liver makes what is 132 enzymes, and if that's not working, then you end up with problems, and so when you start clearing the body of these toxins, then all sudden you get the chance to start working properly.

Speaker 9  1:05:03
Thank you, thank you so much. And what you do is incredible, and we appreciate you. Thank you, thank

Speaker 2  1:05:08
you.

Speaker 5  1:05:10
Well, Johnny, the one that I think I mentioned, we mentioned this here in the webinar about specific gut peptides, so peptides, I mean, of course, I apologize, I

Speaker 9  1:05:20
missed the game in week.

Speaker 5  1:05:22
That's okay. This is actually way back. This is not today. So, there are three gut peptides, of course. You need to treat the CMV, because that's basically the source there, and the one that you want as an assistance. There will be three peptides that we use VPC 157 KPV, and Lorazetide, so the one that's really for colitis, or even Crohn's disease, or even ulcerative colitis will be KPV. So KVB is related to lowering down this, these inflammatory markers like NF kappa B, right, TNF alpha one, IL six, which is probably high with your case, and definitely this is an oral peptide. It's not part of the FDA-approved ones, but there are pharmacies out there, compounded farmers, that will make this for you, along with lorazetide, which is a barrier integrity peptide, and they can compound this for you. So this is definitely a, you can combine this in one pill, so may I connect

Speaker 9  1:06:24
with you after the call. Is there any way? I think I have your contact info, but do you mind putting in the chat your contacts?

Speaker 5  1:06:30
Because I use this a lot of patients, but remember the CMV, you need to treat the CMV.

Speaker 9  1:06:35
Yeah, I know she's hospitalized with for it right now. Yes, so she's on. Yeah, thank you,

Speaker 5  1:06:41
Doug. actually has a good comment about your beard, so he thinks it's the best thing out there. Cindy, oh, sorry, Christine has a question. Do you add DMSO to the.. I don't know if this is these are the baths or bars, B A R H S, think that's a typo, but I think it's a

Bill Clearfield  1:07:07
baths, I would think, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:07:08
it's like bars,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:11
Barth's, it's like moops, says MOOPS, you

Speaker 2  1:07:18
know, are we, we have not added it to the CDs bath soak, and because the water is, you know, it's hot and it's opening the pores and everything, the ability for the CDs to permeate the skin is already in place, so you could add DMSO to it, I'm not sure that I would, and some people have a sensitivity to it, and it can be, it can burn, you know, on the skin, if you, you know, so you just have to be careful when you start doing it topically. We had a guy who was trying to use it to fight off early's Alzheimers, and so we had him combining that with organic coconut oil and putting on his scalp, because it can, you know, permeate the blood brain barrier and takes the organic coconut oil, which is a medium chain fatty acid that feeds the brain cells, you know, externally to the glucose receptors, and so when you, when you do that, and we had him started, I think we started with a 5050 and he's had to keep decreasing until he was down to 5% DMSO, because it just his skin was still sensitive, so I wouldn't, I don't know that I would add it to the bathroom, I'm not sure it adds anything to to the chlorine dioxide solution when you're trying to get that into your system through a bath soak.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:48
There's another question about, have you tried it with blood cancers like lymphomas or multiple myelomas?

Speaker 2  1:08:55
Well, we, so we do have a gala, had was diagnosed with CAL le le leukemia, and so she was on our kit for when she still is, I think, 12 months, and all of her numbers have come back into normal ranges. So it does work with leukemia, which again the reason we picked these particular products was because they were not cancer specific, and they seem to have proved that working with leukemia, because it's a much harder, you know, there's no tumor, there's no cancer cells to go find one specific place to go attack, and yet it, it's brought all her numbers back into normal ranges.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:44
Okay? Any questions online, Dr. Nario?

Speaker 5  1:09:49
Yeah, so this protocol, so you said you do have curcumin on your stock, right? Is that right?

Speaker 2  1:09:55
We do

Speaker 5  1:09:56
all right. So the.. so this.. when you. if somebody there is not aware of Joe Tippins, so the protocol that he went through, just to give our viewers a background here, so he has a, I think, lung cancer, stage four lung cancer, and yeah, stage four. What happened to this guy was he did this stack, so he's not a doctor, he's a, he's a cancer patient, and he actually did fenbendazole, so that's a 222 milligrams, three days on, four days off. He has curcumin, so he has high doses of this, as you mentioned, and CBD oil, I think that he did daily. The, the thing, the wonderful story about this guy is he is now on remission. So, I think 10 years since his diagnosis, just doing this, and this brought this protocol into life, now spreading across the US and even internationally. And I just have to make sure that I mentioned to the audience here, the controversy behind.. also, I mean, it's something that's being scrutinized by the medical world, but you always have to comment about the good results. So, he was also in Ketruda during the MD Anderson treatment clinical trial that he also went through. So, that's why the controversy there is. is it really the protocol? Is it really Keturah? But for us integrative docs, really, we are in. We also are curious about the data, but the thing here, the patient is in remission. Whatever he did, it worked. So that's why this is something that is astounding for me, because when I read through the literature for this, I just can't find any anything, but you cannot argue with results. So, anyway, the question was in this protocol that Joe Tippins is doing. He didn't mention a specific dose for the curcumin, so for your protocol, do you have a number for that?

Speaker 2  1:11:57
Yes, yeah, we do. So the stand standard dosage is 2000 milligrams a day, and in our super kit it's 4000 milligrams a day. So, you're taking eight eight capsules, four in the morning, four in the evening, which is, you know, 4000 milligrams is, you know, it's a substantial amount, but it's again the nice thing is that pretty much everything in these kits are, you know, they're not inhibitor type drugs, which is where you get all your side effects, they're typically enhancing type, you know, therapeutics and supplements and things like that,

Speaker 5  1:12:38
right? Do you also do CBD, if that's this protocol. Do you add that in there too?

Speaker 2  1:12:44
We don't do CBD, because as an alt, as a private health association, one of the things that was stipulated from our getting getting a bank account was they wanted to know if we did CBD and not complicate things. We decided we weren't going to try to make that make that leap, if someone wants it. I mean, we have a number of suppliers here that we can send people to, but no, we don't. We don't add that in. We recommend that, you know, if you want to go get it, because you know we're seeing a lot of good positive results from it. We just don't deal with it because of the type of organization that we are, and the limitation that the outside world has put on us with our bank account.

Speaker 5  1:13:26
Well, you can refer them to any street corner anyway. They're all just about

Speaker 2  1:13:30
right everywhere. No

Speaker 5  1:13:31
bother, you're going to compete with everybody else. All right, that's all my questions, Dr. Bill. Thanks, Nick. That was a great presentation. Well,

Speaker 2  1:13:40
let me real quick, DMS, though. I do want everybody to know that we've developed what's called the Stroke Reversal Kit, and the Allopathic Internal Medicine community has nothing to be able to stop a stroke.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:55
Right here, I have it right up

Speaker 2  1:13:58
there. You go, and so it's, we have that available, and we're starting to promote it. We're excited about what this can do, with, you know, 800,000 strokes a year, and almost 200,000 deaths, and 250,000 paralysis. This is going to change a lot of people's lives, and let them live a normal retirement years, instead of being in, you know, caregiver mode,

Bill Clearfield  1:14:25
it was just useful during a stroke, after a stroke, before a stroke.

Speaker 2  1:14:32
Okay, so it's probably available before a stroke, but it's that's not what it's designed. We are going to be working on a protocol to help prevent strokes, give you the ability to, to reduce, because one of the things it's based on DMSO, and DMSO will dissolve clots, which is why this kid is so effective, and you do it internally, and you do it externally, and so you know there's a lot of documentation that we have on the website about that, but there are - we are working on a prevention. We're also working on a post stroke, so if someone's, you know, two weeks, two weeks, two months, three months post stroke, my favorite story is an 80 year old woman who had a major stroke was left in a coma, her husband couldn't take care of her, so put her in an assisted living hospital, and after she'd been unconscious for three months, heard about DMSO and started applying it to her scalp, in a week she was conscious. In a month she was out of bed, and in four months they sent her home. And so the guy who wrote the book about DMSO for doctors went and interviewed her, and she was joking. So she was, she was, everything was normal, with the exception of a very slight speech. speech impediment, but she was taking care of the household, she was cooking, clean all that stuff, and the joke was that her memory was better than her husband's, and her husband hadn't had a stroke, so she was unconscious for three months, and so, yes, there apparently is some really great ability, I, my belief is that when God designed the brain cells, because they're so important, if they're, they're having trouble surviving, He puts them into basically hibernation mode, and with the fact that He, that they were able to revive this gal who'd been unconscious for three months, I think it's indicative of either it's stimulating stem cells that rebuilt brain cells, or the brain cells weren't completely dead and were able to be, you know, reactivated and reconnected and start working, functioning properly. So we're excited about that, that phase of of our operation, and so the kits are available now, and so we're going to be starting to do a lot of promotion on those.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:05
Am I allowed to ask what's in them?

Speaker 2  1:17:08
Well, it's DMSO, but we have, we have it already mixed. We've got three bottles, you've got the kit, yeah, three bottles, and step one, step two, and step three. Again, we wanted to make it simple, so people could do it, even if you're having a stroke. At least, if you go, I should drink bottle one. At least that's a start, even if you can't clean your both sides of the neck and apply the Q tips or the bandages soaked in bottle three and apply it to your neck. At least you get some relief, and even with the bottle one, there's reports of people, you know, recovering from strokes, even with just that first bottle.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:49
Got anything for headaches while you're at it?

Speaker 2  1:17:52
You know what, DMSO,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:55
you know, just apply that to the forehead, and yeah,

Speaker 2  1:17:58
well, to the temple, yeah, to the temples.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:00
Okay, better than progesterone.

Speaker 2  1:18:04
I don't have any idea to talk to one of your doctor friends,

Speaker 5  1:18:09
get the real problem out of your life. All right, that's

Bill Clearfield  1:18:13
so.. I know I asked you this when, when you were here, Nicholas, and I'm just playing the devil's advocate here, because I, you know, I think you know what you, what you have going on is really great, but I have to, you know, I know. I asked you this here, and you, you told me, but you know, if I, if I decided to do this, you know, myself, let's say, you know, and come up with my own formula, certainly not yours, and Pat made it wherever it is that you're making it, and packaged it the way it's packaged. The FDA would come down on me like a with a ton of bricks. The state of Nevada has a pharmacy board that, that's, you know, like, like that makes storm troopers in World War Two look, look, look like, you know, like, look like patsies. I mean, how, how is this? How, how is this, you know, I mean, you're not quiet about it. It's not like you're, you're, you know,

Speaker 2  1:19:06
well, again. How

Bill Clearfield  1:19:07
does this work?

Speaker 2  1:19:08
Well, because we formed one as a private health association, and so private everyone essentially that becomes a member, and all of you guys could become members, by the way, and you could actually. there's an organization, national organization called the Body Health Care, which I'm a member with. I'm working with Dr. Avery Jackson the Third and his team. They're a national organization. They're also a private health association. They have a team of attorneys, and they formulated it for the exact same reason that I did, was so that I could, I could work in the private arena, and private contract guys overrides the state limiting an arrest codes and regulations, and even federal regulations. So, when you're in private contract with someone, as long as it meets their contract law. In other words, if I say I'm going to give you something, and you say I'm going to give you this in return. Then it's fair contract law, and that is that supersedes all of the other laws. So you can do all kinds of things in a private association you can't do in the public arena. The fact that they give you a license says you have a right to help somebody, but we're going to regulate it, and in order to keep you in line, we're going to issue a license that you have to qualify for, and if you get out of line, we're going to pull your license, and so that's the thumb that they have you under, but if you form, if you come into, you know, our private health association, anybody that you work with, you know, any of your patients that become part of the private health association, you can now, you're now in private contract with them, and you can do things you couldn't do if you weren't in that private health association format.

Speaker 5  1:20:57
Dr. Bill, give up your license,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:00
possibly give up yours. Listen, there

Speaker 2  1:21:05
are guys, so the body health care related. Yeah, we formulated.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:11
We know Dr. Jackson. So, okay,

Speaker 2  1:21:13
so yeah, they formulated that, and they did, you know. So guys are giving their licenses up and moving into that, because you know they are, oh yeah, y'all are walking away from me because the thumb that's on them has got them so frustrated and not being able to practice and really help people the way they want to,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:34
it's almost like the tribal health,

Speaker 2  1:21:37
well, that's right because it's private, yeah, the tribal health stuff is essentially a private association, exactly. Right?

Bill Clearfield  1:21:45
Okay, I don't think this video's going on YouTube. If it is, it

Speaker 2  1:21:49
won't last long.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:51
Yeah, I don't think they let it on in the first place. Listen, they

Speaker 2  1:21:55
took down my Colloidal silver generator after it being up 18 years after I put Colloidal silver and milk, and just showed that it didn't spoil. They said, "Oh, no, that's misinformation. I took my video down.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:07
Yeah, well, they, they took one of ours down when Stefan's mother mentioned. All she did was mention that she had tried the Gerson diet. She didn't say what it was. She didn't say it was great. She said it didn't say it cured cancer. She didn't say, "All she said is, I tried it once, and they took it down. Yeah, so

Speaker 5  1:22:26
Christine's asking, kits available for wholesale,

Speaker 2  1:22:31
which all of our kids

Speaker 5  1:22:34
are kits available for wholesale.

Speaker 2  1:22:38
Yeah, our cost, our prices is essentially wholesale, and if you want to buy them and resell them at an additional price, yeah, we're fine with that.

Speaker 1  1:22:52
Okay.

Speaker 4  1:22:53
Question about the DMSO and the stroke. Have you seen evidence? I understand a stroke, you can see evidence of a stroke remnants for years later. Have you seen any evidence? I don't know whether they use an MRI or X-ray. I don't know how they look at it, but have you seen any evidence of the damage that was done by the stroke go away after a period of time using a DMSO? You can't see that it's there anymore?

Speaker 2  1:23:21
Well, it's funny. So I haven't, but when you start reading through the all of the animal studies that were done for the 30 years they couldn't test on humans, a Midwestern doctor publishes those, and I've read dozens and dozens and dozens of them. So they'll they'll block off a carotid artery to stimulate it in two different animals, and it'll be the, you know, for x amount of time, and then they'll release it, and then they'll apply DMSO to the one that had the blockage that was in, you know, the one they were testing on, and they will see virtually complete restoration of the damage that happened during that stroke, whereas the other one didn't have any, did not have a recovery, or had minimal recovery at all, and so yes, it does do something to re so DMSO. I didn't know it, but DMSO can activate stem cells, and for people who have MS, there's people who have applied it to their spine, and it's regrown the myelin sheath over the, you know, the nerves in your spine, and so whatever it does, it can revitalize and recreate and re, I don't know if it regrows cells or turns stem cells into something again. How it knows what to do is a mystery, I think. Even to the best of the guys that have got all the money for the labs and the testing, all that stuff, all we know is when you apply it under a bunch of these circumstances, you get nearly miraculous results.

Speaker 4  1:25:02
Thank you for the answer. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:25:05
Dr. Greska, just to address that, there are some small evidences about DMSO being given through IV. As I remember, this is a very small study. This is like 10 patients,

Speaker 2  1:25:18
right,

Speaker 5  1:25:18
and these are acute ischemic strokes, and they saw, so it has to be in the 12 hour onset, very close to to where the symptoms occurred. When the symptoms occurred, and improvements were seen. I mean, these are what the 30 40% of neurological improvements, but again, very small sample study. There, we probably need to do a little bit more.

Speaker 2  1:25:45
Well, I said the animal studies, they've done hundreds of the animal studies, and they show, you know, significant improvement. And that study that you're talking about, I read that I think there's 11 patients in it, and eight or seven or eight of them had significant improvement, even hours after the stroke, and so that was a very.. even though it was a small sampling, it wouldn't surprise me if you know that wasn't a consistent finding on even larger samples.

Speaker 1  1:26:18
Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:20
All right. Well, we bring you all the best stuff, don't we? Here, so you're a remarkable thing going on here, Nicholas. So, let's see, we have somebody here, so Dr. Fortier, diverse effects of DMSO on the differentiation potential of human embryonic stem cells. It's an article published in 2011 I guess.

Speaker 2  1:26:55
They didn't start doing studies on humans until 2001 I think it was. It was 30 years that it was banned by the FDA. You couldn't do any studies or testing on humans, so all this study, hundreds of them, were done on animals, but they're starting to be studies. There was a major study done in 2002 that showed the results that were pretty more remarkable. So, there were gonna, we're gonna see more and more, but again, when, when there's not a lot of money to be made in it, no one's going to start ponying up huge numbers of, you know, dollars for doing some of these studies that would really put this stuff in limelight.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:32
Okay. Well, that's why you're here.

Speaker 2  1:27:35
That's right. That's why we do, we do what you know, what the rest of them, you know, don't want to do, or they don't think there's enough money in it, though.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:43
Okay, okay. Um, anybody else have any comments or questions? Anything online? Dr. Narrio,

Speaker 5  1:27:52
guys, it.. he wiped it clean. Awesome presentation.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:56
Okay. Thanks. Thanks

Speaker 2  1:27:57
for having me.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:58
Yo, thank you, Dr. Tanno. You have any comments? Oh, he's.. I know you're lurking back there somewhere. No, he's quiet tonight. He's on next week, by the way. We have Dr. Tannov next week. I'm not sure what the topic is, but I'm sure it'll be terrific. So, he's. he's our. he's our talk next week. So, okay, I guess that's it. You know, we, we wrapped up if doesn't sound like I'm going to get invited back, but

Speaker 5  1:28:33
hey, you don't know, you never

Bill Clearfield  1:28:35
know, you never know. Oh, you know what,

Speaker 2  1:28:37
you didn't do, you know what you didn't cover,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:39
what

Speaker 2  1:28:40
did NAMD

Bill Clearfield  1:28:42
go, go for it.

Speaker 2  1:28:45
So, when I was, when I was out speaking a lot, everyone kept asking me, are you, are you a medical doctor? And so I was always saying, no, I'm not a medical doctor, and someone says, oh, you're an NAMD, and that's stuck. So I started putting that after my name, just as a joke, because that was a question I got asked all the time. Are you a medical doctor? And no, I'm not a medical doctor. So, NMD was, you

Bill Clearfield  1:29:10
had it on your first slide, so you sort of let the cat out of the bag.

Speaker 2  1:29:13
Oh, yeah, I did. I didn't spend much time on that. I thought you were

Bill Clearfield  1:29:17
talking about the NAD or NMN or so. or something like that, so let's get it's getting late in the day. Washow patriots.com/alt right,

Speaker 2  1:29:31
alt one, yeah, that was our first site. It's got some of the therapeutics, but I'm working on a new site that'll be up in the next couple of weeks called Alt One kits.com and so that'll be our main, main site that'll have everything, everything else will branch out for that.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:45
Alright, so, so keep us informed, and you know, we'll, we'll spread the word.

Speaker 2  1:29:50
I appreciate it. Thank you,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:51
thank you, thank you. Okay, anybody else have any comments, questions, complaints? Anybody doing any speaking anywhere, anywhere soon, Dr. Nario.

Speaker 5  1:30:04
July in the Philippines, that's in the medical city. I'll be there for a Filipino audience. Are

Bill Clearfield  1:30:09
they going to have it online at all? So, you know, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:30:11
I think so. I have to ask them if they have access.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:14
Fine, find out if yes, I will. Okay, you're going to the.. when you go into the Philippines?

Speaker 5  1:30:19
No, I'll do it online. I said, I see my hands are so full.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:25
Okay, all right. So that's our

Speaker 5  1:30:29
research, our research team.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:31
Yes, I don't know. Is Dr. Quinn on tonight? I didn't see him. Oh,

Speaker 5  1:30:37
John,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:37
and Dr. Tanner's not, not, not speaking to us tonight, for some reason, I don't know. He's probably out barbecuing or something. There was signed, signed in for the credit or something. I don't know. So, anybody else have anything, anything going on? Just that you know, I've left it in the, in the email, just to let you know, you can still get 20 CME credits if you, if you sign up for the conference that we had in December. It's online, it's $199 for 20 credits. I mean, you know, you can't beat that. And if you need CMEA, it's AMA category one CME credits, that's still available till december 1, I think. Just to let you know that, okay? Dr. Tanner's next week, we'll let you know what the topic is. And Dr. Greska, he's going to be on the week after, right? Gonna hear about carbon 68 and the latest on that. Thank you, Nicholas. It was great. We'd love to have you on, you know, during, you know, you know, again sometime, and we're here every week at this time, 5o'clock at Pacific, 8o'clock Eastern. We've been doing it since 2020 I did send a letter to, I sent, you know, you know, my mother always taught me to be polite, so I sent a thank you note to the powers that be at IFM, and I, at the bottom of it, I mentioned, you know, we do this, this webinar, it'd be great if we could have get a little bit expanded audience. So, so far, I haven't heard no, I didn't, I didn't hear yes, but I didn't hear no. So, so, if anybody wants to has a topic they want to cover, please let me know. If anybody knows anybody that has a topic, shall let me know. Oh, Doctor,

Speaker 5  1:32:24
remember Dr. Greska? We're going to put him on.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:26
Yeah, we got him on in two weeks.

Speaker 5  1:32:28
Oh, good. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:29
okay. You got him on the june 16. Okay, is that okay, Dr. Tanner, or Dr. Mario?

Speaker 5  1:32:37
Yeah, he's kind of scratching your head.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:40
You're looking at, you're looking kind of stunned there. I don't know, is..

Speaker 5  1:32:42
oh no, no, he has good stuff. I should.. I think he should collaborate with Nick here.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:48
Sounds like it already. Okay, everybody. Thank you so much. And you need anything, reach out, and we're here. We'll be here again next week. R. okay. All right, and bring a friend. Yes, or not a friend. Thank you again, Nicholas. It was great. And God bless. Okay,

Speaker 2  1:33:11
you too. I take care, guys. Thank you,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:13
everybody.

Speaker 2  1:33:14
Bye bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai