Unknown Speaker  00:49
Hello. Dr Dennis, nice to see you again.

Unknown Speaker  00:58
It's a good study. There's been some Hello, hello. Hello, Doctor Tanner, how are you doing? I'm doing great, awesome.

Unknown Speaker  01:10
Potentially, we got you one. We're it's all good. Yeah, soon it

Unknown Speaker  01:18
was snowing Nevada too, I guess I don't not where I am. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  01:29
the snow is going to places it never went so well. No, you know, we're only an hour from, you know, ski area. So, right? Yeah, we get a little bit here, right now. Can you hear me now? You just said three I hear you. Fine. 12% decrease in Alzheimer's medications like that. I have Doctor channel. Turn off the TV hydrated. That can potentially affect the kidney. You may become a little dizzy, your blood pressure may drop low because you're dehydrated. Something in the background. Anyway, there we go. Let me see if I can get this. Make sure these slides work.

Unknown Speaker  02:13
I'll hit Share.

Unknown Speaker  02:22
Can you see that? Yeah. Just need you to when you're ready to go, you know, hit the slideshow so it covers the whole screen. Now, if I do that, can you see it? Yeah, yeah, we see it, fine. We're getting the speakers version. So we're seeing the next slide also. So

Unknown Speaker  02:51
on slide 7771 are

Unknown Speaker  02:58
we supposed to start with products first and then go to the thing or not. We can talk about some products if you want, before we start, you know, or talk about them at the end. However you however you want to do it. It's fine. So, but from the last time we had you on, we now have the CME credits, as long as we don't, you know DME gods,

Unknown Speaker  03:29
let's see. Yeah, if I do

Unknown Speaker  03:41
trying to

Unknown Speaker  03:48
now let me Okay, okay, anyway, it's, there's a says next animation. It's flipping on the side there. So I

Unknown Speaker  04:13
Okay, that's the first slide. We're good to go now. How do I Yeah, but it's not moving one on the left. Yeah, I'm not sure. Let's see. Try display settings. Maybe over here,

Unknown Speaker  04:30
it might be one of these things down at the bottom here, it's moving the slide on the right, but not the one, the big one. Let's see. We got to find the young guys here. Stefan, you know how to run this thing. What's the problem? He's got the double thing. And

Unknown Speaker  04:55
this is all, yeah, see that. I see stuck. I never used that now. Now you can see it right. Power Play, yeah, you got a sort of a double Yeah. Is that too small? If you hit the little box there in the upper right, that the middle thing, the box,

Unknown Speaker  05:23
share, no, no, a little higher.

Unknown Speaker  05:29
Yeah, that right there. Stop, share. No, you're not going to stop share. That's just going to make the screen bigger.

Unknown Speaker  05:40
I And

Unknown Speaker  05:43
then, if you go to slide show

Unknown Speaker  05:48
over here, see right there, next one, one to the right, right there, not one to the left. Oh, yeah, you hit that. And then go from the beginning.

Unknown Speaker  06:06
Okay, you know, yeah, we still got this sort of double thing here. I'm not sure what that is. Seeing that before. I think it's one of the ones at the bottom there, you see that looks like a screen with a sort of a half thing there. This one, yeah, try that that turns it off. You know, that one that makes it smaller.

Unknown Speaker  06:36
Try to one to the try to try to try them all. Go there. Let's see what. Let's see what that one does. If you hit that, that's

Unknown Speaker  06:48
That's me, probably, yeah, okay, how about the second from the left? Oh, wait, you know, go back to that where you were, the one that you were. No, no, the one the second from the right, the little video thing there that, no, not that, not that,

Unknown Speaker  07:11
not that. The next one, this, that one there, that's the camera. That means, okay, go to the right there was something. A window popped up. Yeah? Try hide presenter. View.

Unknown Speaker  07:32
No, that's not it. Either think you're gonna be doing nothing else. Anybody else how to straighten this thing out? Sure there's no video that's simple. You want me

Unknown Speaker  07:50
to just put it on

Unknown Speaker  07:55
screen view? Yeah, put it on the whole screen. Yeah, it doesn't work now. So

Unknown Speaker  08:04
we gotta do from beginning, try from beginning, and then you want it to be, it should be just 111, slide. It shouldn't have, you know, it's kind of double thing here. So see when I hit on the thing that's supposed to make it,

Unknown Speaker  08:25
yeah, heights, like monitors. Do you have more than one monitor?

Unknown Speaker  08:31
Yeah, but it's not as known that one

Unknown Speaker  08:38
these things on the bottom aren't working anymore. Switch switch to the other thing.

Unknown Speaker  08:51
See somebody in this chicken outfit should know how to run this monitors. I

Unknown Speaker  09:07
There share is you're going to send it to somebody else.

Unknown Speaker  09:17
I had it working, but I think it's down here somewhere

Unknown Speaker  09:26
on your side.

Unknown Speaker  09:36
See when I push the button that's supposed to work, it doesn't work. It's not advancing at all. Well, it won't, it won't do the whole screen, and it was working before that, does it

Unknown Speaker  09:54
all? Right? Now,

Unknown Speaker  09:58
okay, so is that that's not big enough, right? Yeah. Well, I mean, it's big enough. What about view? If you go to View, maybe, if you go over there, maybe

Unknown Speaker  10:10
Dr narios just showed up, he'll know what to do. He knows he knows everything.

Unknown Speaker  10:18
You all right, Dr Nair, you need your help. How do we get the single screen here?

Unknown Speaker  10:29
Slideshow? Click it. Yeah, but he's got this sort of double screen thing here, and we can't seem to get rid of it.

Unknown Speaker  10:41
The current slide, maybe from, not from beginning, or either one, yeah, either from beginning. I hit that it doesn't work from current. How about that? Current doesn't work? Got some slides so it's interesting.

Unknown Speaker  11:02
It was working before then what? Push something on your screen it stopped working. Can you put your cursor on the bigger screen, towards the edge and slide it left?

Unknown Speaker  11:19
I didn't understand what you said, Yeah, put the cursor on the window down. Go down and put it towards the end and slide it down to close the left side.

Unknown Speaker  11:35
Close the left side. Yeah, no, no, no, like, Okay, go up a little bit, if it No, just a little bit up there, and go towards the left a little bit, see if it makes it bigger, if it makes it smaller. Yeah, exactly. So, if you can, yeah, it was going to do that. Well, I had it working. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  12:08
yeah, that wouldn't work. Are you doing the slideshow? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  12:19
begin. Click on the from the beginning, click from the beginning, on your left, right, click there. I did. Nothing happens. That's weird. What about Dr Tanner? What about on the upper right by the x, if you hit the square? Will that make it bigger? Yeah, probably.

Unknown Speaker  12:40
Yeah, I should, but okay, and then that's bigger, right? Yeah, that's, that's bigger, yeah, I thought you could, you could slide the left hand side of the bigger screen to the left, and then it would close the left side. I don't know, no,

Unknown Speaker  12:59
go on to the the bigger picture to get that pet there. And he's saying, slide that to the left, yeah, if, if it sometimes it gives you a little like, Yeah, anything, yeah. Alright, so that's big enough, right? And then we can see it, yeah, we can see it. So this is the video. Okay, yeah, we can see it. I think it was just there. Okay, hospital, doctors and medication, the air you breathe is two times more important to your health than your genetic code. That's extremely powerful, because if you fix your air, it's twice as effective, right?

Unknown Speaker  14:02
This? Is a problem, okay? Because nothing's working right. All right, the

Unknown Speaker  14:12
air you breathe is five times more important to your health than all treatment rendered by hospitals, doctors and medication, the air you breathe is two times more important to your health than your genetic code. That's extremely powerful, because if you fix your air it's twice as effective as fixing your genetic code with no side effects, nearly 60% of all preventable deaths are due to the condition of the air. At home and at work, you breathe 1080 gallons of air per day, so no treatment can overcome that much volume. The air must be clean in order for you to get over problem.

Unknown Speaker  15:03
So this is just what it said. It's five times more important to your health and all treatment rented by hospitals, doctors and medication, and two times more important than your genetic code. And nearly 60% of all preventable deaths are due to conditions at work and at home. So

Unknown Speaker  15:25
the the CDC showed that mole was a big deal in August of 2019 which is a little late, but it's better than never. So we do a tap test with a mole plate on the patient's clothes when they come in to determine whether they really have a good environment or not. And we give them a questionnaire. And some sometimes you can tell just by the way they the clothing smells that they're in mold or not. So you're in mycotoxins before they come in. So we save all the discussion if they're positive and they're not eating grains and stuff like that, then we know they're in a fungal environment. So these are resources we use, web pages. Sinus five is where all the products are, and sinusitis wellness is articles.

Unknown Speaker  16:19
So these are the names of fungi genus, and these are the mycotoxins they make. I don't want to belabor that very much, but this is kind of a more important one. So if you go into pathology lab and you test all of the cancers, 87% of them have mycotoxins in them. This is a small study, but it's just a random cross section in any hospital, so you have to get the air right to get well and also to cut down on malignancies.

Unknown Speaker  17:02
So ultimately, we'll have devices that'll test the air, and it'll be on your iPhone. So when you go in a place, you'll know where this you know green, yellow or red. Red means run, and yellow is it's not too good, and green will be, is okay. The problem with the numbers is that people that manufacture the products to measure numbers do not have any medical input, so they're just doing a cross section, a general average of the inside air compared to the outside air, and that has really nothing to do with human health. So the numbers on those instruments are too high for the kind of patients I see. 20% of the population cannot process mycotoxins. 80% can. But that doesn't mean it's used to stay in it. So the mycotoxins are excreted in the kidneys and in the urine. So you, if you're in there a long time, you have our incidence of bladder and and kidney cancer. So

Unknown Speaker  18:15
we use HEPA air filtration, central dehumidification. It needs to be before between 40 and 50% lower is not better, because the sizes don't function well below 40, yet get too dry. And we do a central bipolar ionizer, and I'll show you that in a minute. And do HEPA hip April air, 5000 filters, which are they use electricity to decrease the particle count, instead of it puts less friction on the fan. Basically, instead of having a really thick filter, and you can't have any fiberglass in the system, fiberglass is like a cotton candy for fungus. So fungus grows all over fiberglass, and so when the fiberglass hits the sinus and mucosa, they have a intensity of sin fill reaction. I'll show you what that looks like. This is the latest technology that Israelis invented, this thing. It's called a d6 stereoty self cleaning. And all the rest of them aren't so nobody's going to clean these things out anyway. So these are the electrodes, and what happens is it creates a trillion ions per second, of positive and negative ions with no ozone and no hydroxyl. That's important. You can't have ozone or hydroxyl, and that removes mold, mycotoxins, VOCs, viruses and bacteria from the air. So we put these in the central system and put fans. You know, when you travel, you can take a fan with you with this thing in it. And this is the source to get those things. These two phone numbers, you can get those. And if you are interested, we'll come back to that slide in a minute. So

Unknown Speaker  19:56
the airborne, most spores and mycotoxins, mdocs Enter through the nose, and sizes go into the brain, lungs and the entire system. And the size because the brain has the highest concentration. And at the end, we'll show you, we can actually see it in the brain now by artificial intelligence software, and you can see it in the sciences on CT scan. So we want long term wellness from chronic disease, so you got to clean the air first, get the water right, and the diet has to be right. So clean air is the most important thing, and we put them on a yeast diet with no sugar. You can have dairy, but we you just don't want refined carbohydrates like bread, rice, potatoes and sweets, so we put them on a protein, all your meats, all your seafood, your vegetables and your fruits or berries, and they can have, you know, black rice and some of those things. You can't have chlorine in your water, or you get overgrowth of fungus in your gut. Chlorine does not kill fungus. It kills bacteria, and then so now this is

Unknown Speaker  21:10
when you breathe, the the chemicals go into olfactory nerve and go right into the brain, and they also go through the bone here into the brain, so that they're tiny particles, so they they seem to congregate in these areas over here and in the cerebellar area. So this is what we do. We measure the particles. Counts got to be less than 50,000 at point, three microns per 10th of a cubic foot, and so and when you use a settling plate, just a SDA auger plate, and put it out for an hour, the colony count needs to be zero to four, with one hour and zero to two. If they're severely ill, you can do a tap test, and the tap test is faster. It's going to have more colonies. So higher than four is going to be okay, but not higher than seven or eight. Now, this is an example. This is two immediately post op in the recovery room. This guy had eczema his whole body, his face, arms and everything. So, this is two hours after endoscopic sinus surgery. His arms are clear in his in his face and neck are clear. That's very dramatic. Usually that it takes longer than that. So,

Unknown Speaker  22:35
and this is one where this is a, this thing right here is a fungus ball. This white thing, this is a sinus X ray. So all this should be black. All your max Ray, sun should be full of air. This is your eyes, and this is your brain up here, so, and this is your airway. So all this is full of polyps. Can you see my pointer?

Unknown Speaker  23:01
Yeah, yeah. Okay, so this is this tissue removed is placed on the SDA auger plate. In about three days, you get this brown halo around the tissue. Now, if you take the tissue and do urine mycotoxin levels on the tissue and on the Halo, they both have the same mycotoxin. So the brown Halo represents the mycotoxin leaching out into the media because it's got high osmotic pressure. So now we've done several 100 of these, so we don't have to test anymore. When you see the brown Halo, it's mycotoxins coming out of the tissue, and that's why you get this dramatic result. So this is what she has. She had a heart transplant when she was three months old, and she's 25 now. So, so 25 year old girl, this is her legs. And this is she has four dermatologists. This is the best they could get her legs with all the treatment. So once we cleaned our sciences out, this is about six weeks later here.

Unknown Speaker  24:11
So so if you show this to a dermatologist, they're going to jump up and down and tell you you're lying, because they can't get this kind of result with all the treatment because they're not removing the cause of the rash, they're just treating the symptoms. So this is a hand, and hands clear, and it's the face, the face is clear. So this is how all this works. This is as your processing cell. This represents probably 20% of the population,

Unknown Speaker  24:41
and this is a T cell. So it's a genetic defect in the in the T cell receptor site. So this right here, is where the T cell should dock between these two antigens. But instead it docks on the side, so it's unstable. And these are the binding sites. So the auto it's like an autoimmune regulator. So this is 3000 times the T cell activation. So normal is point zero, 1% of the T cells attached to the antigen, but these people,

Unknown Speaker  25:28
30% more are activated. So it's 3000 times more T cell activation. And there are three interleukins, interleukin 513, interferon gamma. And when you multiply 3000 times three, you get 9000 times the systemic inflammation per mole Spore. That's why the air has to be so clean for these people.

Unknown Speaker  25:52
It causes systemic toxicity, and every system in the body gets affected. So once you get this going that patients get allergic to everything. So when you're exposed to mold, they get multiple other allergies. And once you get them out of mold, all the other allergies are massively diminished if they're allergic to fungus. And this is the gene up here, 20 1q 23.3 but this is, this is what's happening. Just shut so what you just saw in that diagram, this is what this looks like, endoscopically, inside of science. All these red spots, these sub mucosal hemorrhage, are fiberglass particles that was carrying fungus into the nose. So these eosinophils has come and destroyed the cilia on top of there. So then the you guys can't be moved. It pulls and it gets infected. And some, there's two sometimes they it affects the lungs the same way and that they have really serious problems. But most of them don't have lung issues. Is mainly in the sciences, and then this is more severe. All this is fiberglass in this in duct system. It's very common in Florida, almost all the places have ducks lined with fiberglass, so 80% of population doesn't react. But these people who are on oxygen at home and in stage lung disease that never wear smoke or it's usually fiberglass, and they have this issue, they have this genetic predisposition, so so that eosinophils keep coming in, to the extent that they dissolve all the mucosa around this spot down to bone. So underneath the scab is bone in the posterior wall, the maxillary sinus, and that takes about two or three months to heal once they get out of it. So this is the attic blown in fiberglass, and see all these particles in there. So it has to be bad, and it covered with plastic, because if you have air air ducts in the attic, they're not 100% air tight. So this stuff gets sucked into them by the Venturi effect when there's air flow through the duck, and then it goes into the house. This is all Candida in the endoscopic exam. So Candida is caused by fungal exposure and a bad diet. But you you can't kill remove this with antibiotics, we have to use anti fungal in here. So if you use Amphotericin, no spray, or nebulization, all of this stuff goes away in a few weeks, and then this, this whole bio film is gone. This is how it looks after all this. This is what I look before, and this is how I look after this. So

Unknown Speaker  29:04
this is the Mole counts inside a house where this patient lived, and so they've got all this inflammation in the sinuses because they're breathing fungus. So then they get a big candida infection inside the sinus. This all this white says if it's Candida, then we want to get the house clear. So you got zero to two colonies here. This white here is a light reflex, but all of this on the mucosa is normal, and all this Candida is gone, just because we got rid of the airborne fungus. And this is a big fungus ball inside the sphenoid signs that white thing indicates it's a fungus because they secrete calcium salts when they metabolize food. So when you see white spots in it density, that usually means it's a fungus. And this is a the airborne accounts inside the house, and this is in the nose. So this is that Aspergillus Tunis account in the and penicillin in the nose. And this is the house. So if this person doesn't fix the house, since they go back home, this is right back the next day. So you gotta fix the house. And this is a patient who was actually allergic to all the azos. The only one she could take was Amphotericin. So we cleaned this out. This was going down to her lungs, and she had a big mass in her lungs, and it was growing because it's Aspergillus here. So all this stuff here is Aspergillus. Once you take it out, it's clear here. And this is all Aspergillus is dissolving the bone between the brain and the science, so it's making its way into the brain. We got cleaned out before it did that. So once you get this cleaned out, she still had the lung problem. So she had a pulmonologist that was from Harvard, and I called him, and most of those guys won't listen anything, but this guy actually listened. So I told him, Look at Hopkins. We used to when we Broncos cut these people, we would put Amphotericin at three milligrams per 30 CC's in water, and put two CC's in each bronchus and suck it out. As soon as you put Amphotericin in there, the hyphae retract and you can suck it out of the bronchus. But without Amphotericin, you can't ever get it out of the lungs or the sinuses. So amphoteric is a magic thing, and so they their brain gets better too, when you irrigating with Amphotericin. This is an example placing a brain fog after getting exposed on an airline, they got a mole exposure. This is what she said,

Unknown Speaker  31:53
Virgo and cognitive dysfunction. Can you tell me what happened to you? I was on an airplane on Thursday, flying two times that day and later that night, early the next morning, started feeling dizzy, vertigo, fuzzy, head impact on my sinuses, and then what happened to clear it up today, when you did this procedure with amphoteric sinus, it immediately cleared my head, no more vertigo, no more fuzzy thinking my sinus is opened immediately see that. Now that's hard to believe it happens that fast, but this is what it looks like when you she had had surgery, so she had an opening in her sinus. So this is what we put a a blunt needling to squirt Amphotericin inside the maxillary sign. So you're looking, you're looking inside the maxillary sinus right here. And this is Amphotericin. We're putting in the science. We just fill the science up with it, and then that caught. That causes release of all the hyphy, and then you get this result. And most people get improvement in cognition when you do this. So when you do it and inhale it in the nose, most people get better. Now, I wanted to prove, you know, she was talking about how her fuzzy thinking went away. I wanted to prove how that worked, instead of being, you know, just somebody's talking about it, so we did a qdg on on these people, and all of them have these red brains. So red indicates this organized thought process is high voltage, and normal would be green and yellow. So this is after we treated this patient with Amphotericin and Diep can. And this person, all this red clears up. Now they got to be out of the environment, and dots got to be right, or you can't get this kind of result. But this is what that patient's brain would look like after the after terrorism went in, it changes pretty dramatically with a PBE G, and then this is a hearing test called a p3 100. That means it takes 300 milliseconds for the sound to get from the eardrum to the brain, and when it hits the brain, the red and the green line cross, and that should be at 400 milliseconds.

Unknown Speaker  34:29
I mean 300 milliseconds. Excuse me, so this one was 416 milliseconds. It's longer, and this one, they never crossed. So I noticed in the clinic that when you're talking to these people, nothing's happening upstairs. So I have, I make them write it down what I'm telling them, or else they they're not going to have good cognition and retention of what you're telling them, unless they write it down, then they own it. That I was just wondering why they all had problems. So I just proved why they had they got a delayed. It's a delay for the sound to get to their brain, so they're behind what you're talking about. And so this is a patient that she didn't want a picture to be shown, but this is her sinuses. She didn't have really bad sinuses, but she had this. And when we took this out, this tissue here had aflatoxin and ochratoxin in the tissue, and the brown, we assayed the brown and the Brown had the same mycotoxins leaching out of the tissue into the SDA auger here. So this is what she had to say.

Unknown Speaker  35:48
My symptoms were suicidal, depression as well as anxiety. My treatment was numerous, SSRIs for cyclic antidepressant as well as SNRIs, I also received just under 20 electroconvulsive therapies to my brain to help to treat depression. I also was institutionalized for my condition, and I was considered to be treatment resistant. I recently just had sinus surgery with Dr Dennis, and it has completely revolutionized my psychiatric condition. I am no longer experiencing any depression, nor am I experiencing the extreme anxiety. I feel as if he has saved my life, and I am no longer on any psychiatric meds. It is a complete miracle. Thank you, Doctor Dennis,

Unknown Speaker  36:40
so that's why we all do this kind of work. So that's a dramatic outcome. And this is the same patient. This is qdg diagram. The red is disorganized all processes. And this is the way she was pre op. The next one is after surgery. She's much better, but she still has some red in here. And then this is after neurotherapy. You got to complete them with neurotherapy to get the rest out. See this is all clear now, and that's passive neurotherapy. And they can do it at home, on the computer, or they can have somebody help them with it. This is another example, the same thing, tissue, brown Halo. It's all the mycotoxins are coming out of the Halo. And this is that little white speck in that polyp. Means it's fungus. Fungus are Greek calcium salts from the metabolized food. So when you see this little polyp in there and see that little white.it most likely, proves it's going to be a fungus. And so when you take it out, you know you can, you can grow out fungus sometimes on a plate, just depends. So this is what you clean out all this stuff, and all these air cells are removed. They they're real thin. They just suck out. And then you got one space so you can irrigate your own sciences out after that. That's the benefit. So this is the tissue that we took out, and this is that same tissue.

Unknown Speaker  38:14
This just shows a dry COVID. This is a known this. This patient had negative urine mycotoxins to show that all tissue doesn't do this. So this is a sinus case without the mycotoxins. So if you don't have mycotoxins in your urine, you don't have a brown halo around the tissue you take out. So that's a control.

Unknown Speaker  38:43
And this is a site. This is the cyclone that makes this possible to irrigate. This is an example of what what it looks like. So this is the frontal sinus here on a mannequin. And so you see what this why this instrument is so powerful.

Unknown Speaker  39:04
It's not you actually push it a lot harder than that.

Unknown Speaker  39:10
It sucks while you're doing it. And then we'll show you this a little bit. That's how fast it sucks. That's important, because it gets all the toxins out of the way when you're washing them out. And then you put a lot of pressure on this, you really bear down on it, and it really cleans every millimeter of the mucosa when you do that.

Unknown Speaker  39:34
So this is a before and after. This is what this patient looked like. And this is like a month later, a massive change in in the way she looks, just

Unknown Speaker  39:48
just now this guy, this is what he had. This is a three weeks post op. Where did you experience, well before my surgery, my head bunch of floaters floating around my eyes, and my vision was, you know, pretty blurry and sort of discolored. And post surgery, my floaters are gone, and my vision has gotten a lot clearer. My energy level is now a seven instead of a three before surgery, and my brain function was a three, and now it's a seven, and gradually getting better, right? So,

Unknown Speaker  40:22
and this is enough. So this, you can see all this stuff in here. He's got the white stuff in there. These are air bubbles. So these are live organisms in there making air, just like people do. And so this, this all shouldn't be black, like down here. So this is a big fungus ball in here. And after we got that idea, interesting experience I Robert Taylor. I'm a patient of Dr Dennis. I had surgery yesterday to clear my sinuses out remove some polyps. What I want to probably say first is how I felt before, which is very difficult, because I could not explain how I felt before all I can say to describe my feelings. I was in this constant state of fight and flight. My cortisol levels always seem to be through the roof, and my body always seemed to be on fire, always in a state of anxiousness. Had my surgery yesterday, and within a matter of a few hours, I felt this life changing transformation where I almost felt like my brain had been inflamed before, and that inflammation subsided in a matter of moments. I almost felt like having a tumor resting somewhere, and that tumor being removed, I had a level of clarity, a level of euphoria that I've not experienced for many, many years. In fact, my wife, who was not in the room, had asked whether she given me the anti anxiety medication because I felt it was a medication that had given me that euphoric feeling, which it was not because I had not taken it. And the transformation is beyond words. And all I could think of and kept saying was that doctor Dennis saved my life because I was heading on a path that I felt totally out of control and had no idea what was wrong with me. He was a pilot and an attorney, and so he couldn't do his job, and with all the all these mycotoxins, so they've got the MTHFR gene. He can't methylate B 12, so he can't excrete these toxins that are in his brain as fast as most people can. So that's why he was having difficulty. And that's about 20% of the population. It can be more or less, but that's a rough estimate. Now, this guy had a hearing loss in the left ear for 10 years, and the reason is he's he was in a toxic mole situation a long time. All this gray stuff in the right Max ethmoid sinus is polyps, and the polyps are immune reaction to fungus. So when you see polyps, that means I got a fungal exposure, and so we cleaned all this out, and this tissue looks like this on a mold plate. See all this brown halo around here? That's the mycotoxin. So the same mycotoxin, he had four mycotoxins in that tissue, and the same ones are in the halo around the tissue. So this is his experience.

Unknown Speaker  43:48
I would guess that I've been out of brought out of anesthesia for about 20 minutes now. The first thing I noticed as I came to is by hearing it improved drastically. I could hear the conversations at the root ducks to be I'm still trying to determine if the tinnitus is completely gone or just mostly gone. The ringing is obsolete in my ears. I haven't been able to hear this well for at least 10 years. So if you told me, God could get his hearing back, and after 10 years, I would have bet large money against that. So I've never seen that before. So this is really dramatic.

Unknown Speaker  44:37
This is important because most of these, at least over half of these people have damage to the pituitary, commonly is going to be thyroid, cortisol, growth hormone and some of the sex hormones in any combination. So

Unknown Speaker  44:57
the problem is the IGF one level is is not accurate in terms of measuring your growth hormone, so you can't rely on that number. So we did a study on a bunch of patients. We found out that if they have an IGF one higher than the mean of normal, then they have a 53% chance their growth hormone deficient. They can't make their own growth hormone, and they have to have injectable so all these people should, all their hormones should be measured, and they should work up your growth hormone and make and stimulate to make sure they can really make it. And we had one that 285 and the high normal was lower than that, and yet they had growth hormone deficiency. So this is a big blank spot in endocrinology where they are relying on the IGF one level and not really testing the patient and listening to the patient see what their symptoms are. So

Unknown Speaker  46:08
this is the range of the patients we solve that cannot make growth hormone after it tested well, 43 to 285 well, 285 is higher than the normal range, as well as talking to you about in 43 and in no situation is a double digit normal, but most labs have a double digit as being normal. That's like saying one leg is normal because you can still hop. Is that bad? So you you gotta listen to the patient and work them up and make sure they can make their growth hormone. It's really important. Now. This is the guy. He had Parkinson's in the left arm and left leg. 625, 18, left tremor of the arm and some leg tremor as well.

Unknown Speaker  47:09
This is him post op.

Unknown Speaker  47:15
This is after treatment of mycotoxicosis. I

Unknown Speaker  47:26
So and this had this patient had another patient with Parkinson's. This patient, Mark Anderson, on 116, 24, he's got tremors in both hands and both legs

Unknown Speaker  47:45
now that that's the best he could get. Interesting, that's the best he could get with maximum medication, and this is him now.

Unknown Speaker  47:56
Stop three weeks I

Unknown Speaker  48:04
so it's dramatic when you remove the cause of the problem.

Unknown Speaker  48:12
So, and this is his, uh, mole place. See, his house was really bad. We wanted zero to four these, these are all high, and all these plates are high. And this, this is what came out of his sinuses. See how much huge amount of myoctoxin, that brown stuff going into the media coming out of that tissue. So I

Unknown Speaker  48:43
uh,

Unknown Speaker  48:43
this guy was in a wheelchair for two years. Couldn't walk because he was a moldy house. He did everything to the house known to man, it nothing worked, so he actually couldn't live in that geographical area. So yeah, this is Sam green

Unknown Speaker  49:02
photo. My Alge. Fibromyalgia, mental weakness, you know, go backwards and then sit in the chair.

Unknown Speaker  49:12
So he was like that for two years. And then after he did everything known to man, I just told him, You got to go to the beach. And he did, got a new place on the beach, and I saw what it looks like after that.

Unknown Speaker  49:30
Hi, I'm Tim green. I'm now living on the coast of North Carolina, and I'm living right here on the water. There's no grass, no trees, just the breeze off the ocean, and I'm doing so much better. My health is tremendously better now, because I'm living where there's a zero mold count, that's made all the difference in the world in my health. I had severe headaches. I was in a wheelchair for over two years, living in the mountains of North Carolina, where it rained all the time and there was mold and trees everywhere. But now, living here, where there's a zero mold count, I'm healthy. I'm walking again, and praise God, life is good. And thank you. Doctor Dennis,

Unknown Speaker  50:07
so this patient lived in a trailer, and cat died and got leg paralysis, just like the patient did. And then we got a she got her out of the trailer and and, you know, gave her anaphone. She didn't need surgery, but this is what happened to her.

Unknown Speaker  50:24
This is Jennifer parish. She had a severe mode exposure in a trailer and has trouble walking. She has paralyzed left leg and inability to evaluate her bladder or bowels, and she's had three episodes of this after living in a trailer where her cat died and got leg paralysis as well from the mycotoxins. So this is, or about six weeks later, got out and did all the, you know, usual treatment. Jennifer parish on 114, 08, patient had right eye paralysis and right eye blindness. Now she can look all the way to her nose, and she couldn't do that before she had left leg paralysis. Stand up for me. She can walk easily back that way with her left leg. She can support, support her weight on the left leg. Lift up your right leg, lift up your left leg. So she's got all her strength back, and she our neurogenic bladder is over so she can urinate properly. And she had a mass around her spine, which has gone away. This is all on sporox and vitamin supplementation, and she provisions coming back while they're killing her, healing her for heavy metal.

Unknown Speaker  51:52
Okay, this is important, because you see how quickly somebody can get sick again. So this is guy is how has a hard time walking. This is the best he can do, walking. He

Unknown Speaker  52:07
can't he can't pick his legs up. This is after I got through with him.

Unknown Speaker  52:15
All right, so, and this, he comes back a month later and gets a moldy car rental car at the airport, and within 30 minutes, he's almost as bad as he was before.

Unknown Speaker  52:32
So I just the point is you can't get back into fungus. That's the problem. Now, this is important. This is a new technology, artificial intelligence software that allows you to see the mycotoxins in it on CT scans and MRI scans. So what we did is took this AI technology that's used by the Defense Department to see enemy submarines from satellite data under the water wherever they are, so we always know where all their submarines are. So when he told me that I took all the mycotoxins and glass vials from the lab, and we CT scan the vials, and Mr. Scan the vials, and we and we look to see what algorithm shows something in that test tube. So we found, we take the patient's urine, or whatever mycotoxin they have in the urine, we use that algorithm. So this patient had Gliotoxin in the urine. So his test tube of Gliotoxin shows it, so a black substance. So then we do the MRI, I mean, the CT scan, this black stuff is Gliotoxin. We actually, we biopsied this site before, sir, you know, after surgery, and then we found the mycotoxin, the same mycotoxin, in that tissue. So the test is accurate, and it's confirmed by biopsy and tissue assay. So that's going to change everything. So this is the tissue, and this is the mycotoxins coming out of the tissue.

Unknown Speaker  54:22
This is the patient who has some severe headaches, daily migraine headaches. He had a colloid cyst in the left ventricle of his brain causing that. But you can't take a cyst out there. They won't survive a surgery. So we took the Gliotoxin. And if you do do an MRI of the Gliotoxin. It's a white substance. It looks like water, but when you run the algorithm for Gliotoxin, this particular algorithms got red spots in blue, you find out that this stuff in his colloid cyst is actually Gliotoxin and in the body, surrounded it with a casing to protect the brain, and that's what caused the cyst. So you see this MRI. All you see is just white spots at the junction of the gray and white matter the vessels the smallest so you get infarct, they're easier, but she's got more than that. So she had Gliotoxin too. So this is what Gliotoxin shows up in the brain. How much more toxin is there than you can see in this MRI scan. And she got all this cleared up. Now, this is the most important one. This is test tube of Gliotoxin. This patient had a tumor in the pituitary gland secreting large amounts of cortisol. So she had 114 pound weight gain about three months, and she was not going to make it several more months without, you know, dying. So I sent soon as I saw her, and she told me about the weight gain, and she was a yoga instructor, and she died. Was Right. I sent her to the endocrinologist, and she had Christie's disease, you know, find it and let's fix it. So he found the tumor, and the neurosurgeon took the tumor out through the nose, then we got a piece of the tumor, and we did two assays back to back to prove it was right. And there were 11 mycotoxins in this tumor right here. So after we took the mic, you know, took the tumor out, you know, and treated her for the mycotoxins, this is, and this is the list of mycotoxins. We did it twice to prove it was correct. So all these mycotoxins were in that tumor which was causing the tumor. So this hadn't been published yet, but most, a lot of pituitary tumors are commonly recurring because I think it's an environmental illness. We figured that out. But this is her, but before, when I first saw her, and this is her now afterward. So this is dramatic change.

Unknown Speaker  57:12
And this, this is a positive CAT scan. It's got a bunch of polyps in here, and this is a polyp in here, so all this black stuff is a tricothe scene, and Gliotoxin is a mycotoxins in the sinuses. Now, this guy has a huge pituitary tumor, and he's needing surgery, but he doesn't want surgery, so he's also got tricotheine and Gliotoxin. But see this huge tumor, and this is the internal carotid artery right here. So this is, this is the pituitary gland, and this is the optic nerve crossing at the optic chiasm right above pituitary. And this is the left internal carotid artery, and this is the airway. So if you look at this, is the cadaver here. So if you look at this, this tumor is all the way down, encroaching on that airway and smashing the internal carotid artery. See right here. So this is him, so his brain. This MRI scan doesn't show anything but the AI technology shows he's got mycotoxins in his brain, and this is after we treated him without surgery and got a lot of it out. Some of it was migrated down here, but it's continuing to go away. So and I'll show you what we do to use to do that, oxygen is really key. Gotta use oxygen for a couple hours a day at 100% you know, 10 liters a minute, or eight liters a minute. And

Unknown Speaker  58:49
and this is that

Unknown Speaker  58:53
black stuff is usually air, but this is the test tube of the mycotoxin and and we ran this algorithm on it. So, and this is air up here, but you can see this, this material here, and there's some black material here. This may represent the first ability to see VOCs and sinuses. So it's just ongoing research here. So what do we know? We know when one mycotoxin is present in the urine, 10 or more are present in the brain. So if you got it in urine, it's already in your brain, you don't have to image it to see it, but imaging is nice, and some pituitaries are likely caused by mycotoxin sensor found in pituitary tumors and high concentrations and are known to be tuogenic. Pituitary tumors have a high recurrence rate, so airborne mycotoxins in and through the nose and randomly distributed through areas of the brain, and they can be removed from the brain with a combination of environmental medical and would indicate endoscopic surgical techniques and amphitheaters and using amputation or voracal with a cyclone and irrigation. And in the office, we try to get the patients out of the environment and doing things corrupted before I ever see them. So they're gonna contaminate the whole office too. So if we have one slip through the cracks, we this is a micro balance has these. Is a company that has these foggers, and you put EC three in it. We tell you about that later. But anyway, you fog the patient in the gown, and it's what it looks like fogging.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:49
And this is what fogging the patient looks like.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:01
So when you breathe this stuff, it actually makes you feel better. You can drink it. It is non toxic, but it's just it does get rid of mycotoxins and fungi on the clothing. So you can actually see the patient. This is another example of fogging, fogging. You actually have to pick this up and move it around to fog something so. So this is the differential greater than 90% of fungal load occurs in the air on the belongings. So we take a history and do mold place, and if it's zero to two is what we want with and they we do a tap test. Front loader washers are notoriously bad. Some of the BMWs, not all of them, have a they save the water

Unknown Speaker  1:01:58
inside the air conditioning system. Sometimes, some of them don't have a vent for the water to get out all, all animals, if you tap test animals, they're full of fungus. Normally, that's their normal nature. And so these patients, like we said, react nine times, sometimes normal. So you gotta get the colony count down, or all medical and surgical treatment fail, they'll just keep coming back and nothing will ever work. So

Unknown Speaker  1:02:28
gotta have the diet. You gotta get on a Candida diet. Now, Candida has a sugar receptor on the cell wall, so when you feed it sugar, it changes from the yeast form to the invasive hyper form the hyphy or three feet long, and they go down into the tissue to feed. And you can't suck that out of a sinus unless you put an anti fungal on it to make it retract the hyphae. And when you cheat on the diet, you think it's resistant to all the drugs, but it's really not it's that you can't kill it with anything. When it's in the hypo form, it's drug resistant because of the diet. And you get then you got addressed pituitary gland. You gotta really look at that to get these people well, and all of them, you suppress. So especially the ones that had the vaccine and they got double. They get FC bar, cytomegavirus, Lyme set and herpes and heavy metals and THF are and then cancer is rare, but that's the differential. We only see that in single digit percentage. So get the patient to a mole free environment and remove mold from the nose and the body. If you clean the nose and clean the home and close they get better, basically. So this is the summary of what we do.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:52
You got the lower air content. We use HEPA filters, EC three, fogging and EC three, laundry and slightly nose washes with citrus and nebulization, we knock out the yeast first with dopakin, Nystatin and probiotic, and then we switch them to intraconazole and use them put them on there for a few months. But one of the none of this stuff is is helpful unless you get them out of the environment first, because you're breathing Not 1800 but 3000 gallons of air a day, and you can't beat 3000 gallons of air washing your nose out with eight ounces twice a day. So that's like trying to dry off while in the shower. Nothing's going to happen.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:42
So over I'd say 80% of these people have GERD. So we we treat the GERD and work them up make sure they don't have a mechanical cause of GERD. Vitamin D levels need to be between 80 and 90. Most of them have low vitamin D levels. And you got we use VSL as a probiotic. You use whatever you want, but you need a billion units per capsule. That's the magic number. And then we do the ALCAT test for food allergies, and some of them. And so if they we use Colossians too. And then you got to do a total pituitary workup. And

Unknown Speaker  1:05:23
and you we you can use binders. I like the simple ones that diatomaceous earth and

Unknown Speaker  1:05:33
gluc zeolites are okay, but most of the time I don't need these bentonite clay and colored star mean, I never use that stuff, but I'm not against any of it. It's just most of the time I just need light stuff for what I do, and they get better. So

Unknown Speaker  1:05:54
the diet's really important. And so this is what we started on. Like we said before, these are the main ones. Probably the best. One of all is Vora console, but it's more expensive. Vora console gets in the brain better than foreign ox does. So we first start getting rid of all the yeast, not I keep them on the statin long term, it stays in the gut, doesn't go to the liver, doesn't interfere with any other market, any other anti fungal. But doth account does? I stopped that in about two months, and then we probably started on sport like just depending on individual these down here don't do much, in my opinion, I tried them all. So remove the antigen, which is the fungus, and control the air and they get better. You got to get the fungal load down. And here we go with normal saline. Do antifungals, antibiotic sprays and oral antibiotics. Occasionally we need those, but most of the time, if I put them directly into the sinuses, they do actually better than oral antibiotics. Sometimes you need an oral, but most time we don't. If you give them oral, you got to give them nice statin and a probiotic every time, twice a day, or they get in trouble. So

Unknown Speaker  1:07:19
immunotherapy for IGE and IgG specific moles is helpful. And then MRV is mixed respiratory virus that's strep staff, diplococcus, pneumococcus, pmophilus in a vaccine. And a lot of these science patients are sensitive to all those, so we desensitize them with

Unknown Speaker  1:07:43
very minimal concentrations of this stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:49
So I'd say half of them or so need endoscopic science surgery. And the ones that will not do the environmental piece, I guarantee them 100% failure rate. But what's strange is they still want it done. So this is the website, if you can want to copy that down, micro balance, health products, com, Dr Dennis, that's that's all the stuff that I do for the patients. You know, the what I give them,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:24
and the other way to get to the scientist five.com but this is my little protocol up here, and signing side as wellness is, is mostly articles and patient education.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:37
And now we get down here.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:41
Now we're finished with the formal thing. You want to have some questions and then go to the other questions, and then we'll go to the other stuff. Yeah. So Steve asked, Can Mike, can my go toxins get into the inner ear area and cause hearing loss. So I guess you already answered that. Oh yeah, they cause vertigo. Too severe dizziness is common. You got you gotta get it out of the air before you can get it out of the patient. So everybody starts focusing on the patient, and doesn't pay attention to their house. And you just, you're not gonna get anywhere. You gotta, it's, it's like, you know, trying to dry off in the shower is so much volume, you know, you breathe in 3000 gallons of air a day, and so you can't combat that with a few pills. That's not going to work. You know, Doctor Dennis, yeah, thank you very much for this lecture. I think you should give this lecture to biologists and immunologists. Have you done any presentation for the quad AI or acai, or any of that's one small question, but I have a question for you, no, but I'd like to Yeah. I think that would be really great, because this is what we treat every day we see sinusitis, and most people don't realize how much mycotoxins contribute to these sinusitis. I do exactly what you're doing, but I think I'm under treating. I do do Diflucan. I give them an antibiotic combination with Diflucan to try to get the Candida out of the noses. But the major issue I have is we see a more and more of eosinophilic asthma, and by using biologics to treat the eosinophilic asthma, there's a reason why the eosinophils appear in the lungs. Could it be simply because of the Candida or the yeast, I mean, all of those fungus growing in the lungs or from the nose to the lungs, that is driving the eosinophils to be present, and now we so you remember the picture I showed you of the sinuses. Let's see. I'll just

Unknown Speaker  1:11:16
okay, see this, right? These are all eosinophils. This is inside the sinuses. It dissolved all of me because it down the bone here. This is the same reaction that is in the lungs. So you can have somebody who has no sinus trouble, has only lung trouble, or they have both, right, or one or the other, if they have lung trouble in the eosinophil count is high, is more likely than anything that they got. They're in a fungus environment. Yeah. So, so you got to get you got to get to the environment. They got to fix the environment. That's the hardest part for them, or you're not going to get anywhere long term. You can help them, but it's minute help. It's not because they're remember, they breathing 3000 gallons of air a day, and they're reacting like you're looking at this picture. That's an intense reaction. Well, you can block it with steroids, and you can give them duplex and yes, that does work. It stops the immune reaction, but they're still full of mycotoxins. We haven't done anything about that, right? Mike and the mycotoxins are in the brain, and they totally destroy the brain. So the cognitions down in most of these people, and energy levels down. I just ask them those two things, what's your score? One to 10, your cognition is 10 normal, and what's your energy score? And that's how you can score the pituitary gland and and how much is in their brain. They're pretty accurate with their description of what their energy level is, and then what all the neurological symptoms are, especially, you know, they haven't hearing loss, ringing in the ear, vertigo, all that is common with fungal exposure. So treatment, in terms of a treatment with the anti fungos, how long would you say would be optimal? You go, you said, months. Well, okay, let's go back to the environment first. Let's say they're still in a multi environment. You can give them a truckload of anti fungals for 100 years, it's not going to work. You'll knock their liver out before you do anything. So yes, it will knock it back. It will help them. But if they're still in it, you know, you're not going to have a long term result. And then you you risk getting resistant strains of fungi, because you can't kill them, you know, because they keep she's breathing more than you killing basically. So I give them probably two or three months worth of this stuff, but I really don't start heavy doses of that till I get them in a safe environment, because I'm kind of wasting it. You know, you're you're putting pressure on the liver for one thing, for no reward when you do that. So there's two companies that I I use and train to on the health, human health side, how to do things that a lot of the remediation companies or get taught by people who have no training in human health. And they do a lot of things correctly, but they all do some things that are not right and don't get the ball across the goal line. So the solution to that, I don't know, but this, this ionizer, is really helpful, getting the colony counts down and yes, your man out fungal is but and get them on the right diet. If you get the air right in the diet right, everything you do is, is going to work 10 times better. You'll get really good results, unless they've got a lot of stuff hung up in their size and they need surgery. Half of them need surgery. Half of them don't. You can help all of them to some extent. Now you'd give courses to other ENT physicians, because many times the patients have had multiple sinus surgeries, and they still have a recurrence sinusitis requiring surgeries, and they keep on doing the surgeries without the appropriate treatment so well. So the problem is, it's hard to get physicians of any specialty involved in getting the patient's environment straightened out, because they don't have access to who is the right person to get to do it, because getting it done wrong is is a bad thing too, because you waste a lot of money, you don't get the ball across the goal line. So it's an environmental illness, and what really needs to happen is universal environmental health training and how to do things correctly. That's, that's what, that's what's really missing. Now, I'm not saying there's no company that does it right. I just hadn't seen one yet, right? So I know that's the hardest part, because we're in medicine. We're not environmentalists. You know, I had to get that way to get anybody better but and learn all about it. But to get a doctor to get involved environmentally is is not going to happen unless they're kind of unusual. But you even if they could just move out into some place that they know they're getting better in, that's a big step. And then get the get this ion fan I showed you, because it does. It makes a trillion ions per second, and it removes moment my contracts and VOCs from the air, not the contents, but if you got six feet of water in the basement, that's not going to help you. So you know, you just you gotta do the best you can. But yes, all the things you're doing are important. They're worthy. But focus on the nose they get. They need to irrigate their nose out with, uh, distilled water and the saline irrigation. And we put Citra drops in there, which is one of the things that we use on our website. Or you can put sski, you know, supersaturated drops in there that are infected. Do that. And then there's this thing called a rhino sprint, R, I, N, O, sprint. It's a small nebulization device just for the nose. It does one nostril at a time. So you put two cc's of Amphotericin in there, and Amphotericin is mixed at three milligrams per 30 cc's of water, not saline. It won't work in saline. And so boriconzo is mixed with 12.5 milligrams and 30 cc's of water, oh, distilled water. Because, yeah, water, that's right, not, not tap water, you know. Because just, just, yeah, that was with chlorine. And so now you just do the math. If you go do a leader, you know, just do the math and see how much you got to put in there to equal that. And those two things, if you do one or the other, or console Amphotericin, have irrigated with that. And you can also use voracozole in a nebulization, you know? And so you irrigate birds, and then you nebulize, and do that twice a day. That that helps more than any other pill on the planet, for the part. So what people do is they give them antibiotics with no yeast protection, and so they're overgrown with yeast to start with, and and the Gliotoxin is high in their urine because of the yeast. And so you don't want to you always give them not statin twice a day and more. And VSL Flora with any antibiotic orally, and if you put the antibiotic in the nose, you're gonna have a better result than in the mouth. You know, if you irrigate with it and then nebulize with it twice a day, that's an interesting because I know sski potassium iodide actually kills fungus, fungus and stuff like that. But I didn't know you could do in the nose. So that's you mix it with with saline. Now, don't just do it. Don't do it straight. You know that, right? Yes, of course. So we put eight drops, eight to 10 drops per eight ounces of saline. You can amp it up or down, but just depends on how if it have any symptoms from it. But that really works well. And symptom rocks work well too. So we wash out with that first. And you can even put there's

Unknown Speaker  1:20:16
this thing called micro cheetahs. And I don't know if you know about that micro cheetahs, and is shrimp hose powder and capsules. That's on our website too, but you can put add that to the salt water, and it's a natural anti fungal and you can't OD on it, you know. So you put that in the nose, and we give them two to three capsules twice a day, and that really helps decrease polyp formation and inflammation of nose. Microchito Xan, actually, the Japanese did figure that out. Great. Thank you so much. COVID space and nice. You're welcome. Thank you. Dr Dennis, a couple more questions. Can the we're back to the mycoplasma mycotoxins in the inner ear with the can that cause a dark black phlegm. Yeah, but usually the black phlegm is is fungus itself, and that's kind of common, too. When you see black phlegm, it's usually Aspergillus, Penicillium, group of organisms. And yes, mycotoxins are definitely in all that stuff, but they usually don't have a they don't have a black color, usually. But if you see black stuff and she's gonna be fungus, okay, I almost hate to ask this next question, but I'm sure you've heard it before. Dr Andrew Campbell states that blood testing is the only true way to go, and he feels urine testing is little value. Yeah, you know, there's a debate about that. I know Andrew. He's a good guy. The problem is, you don't, you don't have a temple relationship. When you do IgG and IgE, you don't know whether they have it right now, or it was before, you know, the urine is, is pretty good. I like the urine better because of that. I want to know what, what's happening right now. Are they paying it out right now? You know? Yeah, is that the the urine tests are newer, fresher, infection. It's a one to three day infectious versus a longer term for the IgG and the IGA. I think he's, is what He's measuring. IgM, yeah. I mean, I don't, I don't have anything against that. It's just, if I gotta pick one or the other and not both, I'm going to do the urine, because I know it's, it's happening right now in the patient's environment. I know that for sure. I'm not sure it was last month or three months ago, whatever, with the with the blood test, but you know, they've been exposed by the blood test, all right. You just don't. Now what I do to sort of CAP all that, I just take a bowl plate and tap their clothing with it. I know right then how they're in areas. Now that's more important, you know, because if they're growing out a bunch of mold on the plate, it's going to be mycotoxins everywhere. But here's the thing, you can have a house that they remediate correctly. The best guys have done it. Everything's done correctly, and the patient still can't inhabit the house. Why? Because the mycotoxins are small particles that flood on dust particles, and they act like a gas. They go into sheetrock, not on top up and on top of it too. But go into the wood and into the sheet rock, so you can do a house perfectly to ever get everything out of there. You got zero mole counts. Everything looks good, and then that stuff is leaching out of this. Think of it like this. You have a house fire, uh, put it out. You take everything out of the house. There's nothing in the house. You clean everything. You go back in. You smell smoke. It's like the smoke. It's in everything. It's penetrated everything, but you don't smell it, and it leeches out over time. I used to not believe that, but I had, I got this one patient, he did everything right to his house. And it didn't matter what I did, it worked. So I said, Okay, what have you got from the moldy place in your new place? He says, I took my desk with me, but I took it outside, and we two two times. We vigorously took all the drawers out, we cleaned it, we scrubbed every inch of it twice, and We dried it. We brought it back in. I said, I don't care. Just humor me. Just get it out of there. See what happened. He got well when he took it out of there. My point is, it's into the wood, not on top of the wood, and it leeches out later on. Now, some people, they get their house fixed. They're fine. They can live in it, no problem. But let's say you got a guy who's in a wheelchair and he doesn't know his name. Okay, don't stay in the house. Don't, don't waste any money on the house. I'm not opposed to fixing the house, but get out of it into a safe place so you know you're getting better. If you want to then address the house. Do so and be open minded when you go back in. If you start feeling bad, you're done. You can't go in there ever. You know that that's the way you have you have to treat it seriously, because it's your brain. You only get one of them so so you don't want to destroy it, you know, warning about the house, right? Um, would light, nasal light, l, I, G, H, T, nasal probes be useful? And if so, what wavelengths light nasal probes? Yeah, I think you know, like red light therapy, or blue light therapy, something like that. You know it might be helpful. I don't know exactly how it works or what it does, but I know that it's helping a lot of things. You can try it. It's not going to be the answer to anything. It might make them better. But you got to get the organisms out of the sinuses, and the only way you're going to do that is to get it out of the air, you know, because you gotta stop breathing it. So I've had patients that have done everything right, and they've had surgery, and they go back home and they come back for their post op cleanouts, and their sinuses are already full of polyps again, you know. And so I said, Okay, you have to find the source of your fungus or nothing's going to help you. So usually they'll, they'll start digging it. It's their car, it's their washing machine. It's something they overlooked. Once they discover it and get it out of there, then they, then they get well. So I'm just saying you can block the immune reaction to it with duplexing, but they're still going to get poisoned by the lack of toxins. You see, what I mean? So long term, that's not an answer. I know that one of the first ones I ever caught was a lady who was fine in the winter, and then she would be sick every summer, and

Unknown Speaker  1:27:18
we eventually got around to testing here for mold, because, you know, it wasn't on our radar for a long time. And, yeah, it was. It was in the air conditioning duct in a car. Yeah, so that's the winner. Air conditioner wasn't that happen to me. I dumped the cars, and I figured that Yeah. And then I have, I have about eight patients. They worked in a in a government building in Northern California, not too far from here, and every one of them is positive for mold. And you know, they've all gotten sick within the last year. And of course, the powers that be said is not from the building, even though they they they closed it up and moved them all out. So yeah, you got the building. Some of those buildings are just need to be torn down. Some are so bad you can't fix them, and you have to have somebody with a brain fix them. And that's not going to likely happen unless they understand what you're supposed to be doing. You know, it's a mold issue, and you gotta have professionals that know what they're doing to address it. You can't just go in there, change the filters and have some guys scrub the ducks out. That's not going to work. You know, does the MRI? Does the MRI for mycotoxins require contrast? No. What do you have contrast? You don't have contrast. You can still see it. But now here's, here's the problem, the company that put this software out and I used to develop this, they're selling. They're right now selling the company. So

Unknown Speaker  1:28:53
I can't get this done right now. The only way this is going to happen long term is all the manufacturers of the equipment are going to have to put this in their software to view their image in their equipment. And when they do that, and you just hit mycotoxins, it's going to scan the most common algorithms, and it's going to light up and show you where it is. But that's going to take a while for that to happen. So right now, what I do? I get the CD, I go over the CD and find the images I want, I'm interested in, and I send the CD to the company with the inner, you know, the images I want them to look at on my document. They look at the images, and we get together on the computer, and he's showing me the images, and I'm and I'm telling him which ones I want, you know, and then I shoot him with my with my phone. This is, this is for the AI, yeah, of course. I shoot him with my phone, and then I put him in a chart. That's how I have to do it. But right now I can't do any of it because they're in the middle of selling it, and the people who are helping me are not going to do it right now anyway. Well, this is going to happen. It's just going to be store that I'd like to see it now. That was the next question. How do I order the CTA? I so that was the next question that's going to be probably, I don't know how many years it's going to take, if Elon Musk was doing it, probably next week, but, you know, it's just, it's just political too, and it's, it's all about people getting involved, and obviously these dollar signs. And instead of looking at the big picture, you want all the companies to have it, not one. You want it to be everywhere, just like the images are everywhere, so so everybody understands it. Now, when you do this, just so you know, when it's in your urine, it's in your brain 100% of the time, but you don't see it. Seeing it is going to produce more compliance I think, well,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:02
I mean, who knows if people can see in their brain? Now, they don't, they don't do anything different, but I would, if I saw in my brain, I would get busy. You know.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:16
Yes, hello, yeah, go ahead. Okay, I've been treating mold patients for about 10 years now, and mostly do very similar things to what you've discussed. I We had a lecture by Al Johnson. He's a do in Houston, I think for Dallas, and he's gotten really great success using hyperbaric oxygen therapy. I've used that before. They get better much quicker than the Amphotericin and new prusin that I've been using takes six months to a year my treatment, but with the hyperbaric therapy, they get better so much faster. I'm not sure mechanism of action is, but there's a guy down in New Orleans that does that. You know, he's kind of the father of it all.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:24
Oh, Paul harsh. You know him. No, H, A, R, C, H, he started it all. What he did is he put the Q, E, G on their brain and figured out which combo, which pressure and which level work best with their brain. See, that's a little bit more advanced, but that works better, yeah, 1.4 to 2.5 atmospheres. And I think you start low to lessen the Herxheimer reaction, yeah, and then increase it. And you need a full metal machine. The canvas machines don't get as high a pressure, but you can get a cognitive improvement with the canvas ones, though. Yeah. So you know, you get dramatic, what you're doing is removing the mycotoxin from the brain. But remember, before they got in the brain, they're in the sinuses, so you don't want it to keep coming back. And remember, the sinuses have the spores in the sinus, and they're they're a manufacturing facility for more mycotoxins, even when they're out of it. So some of those patients, half of them, are going to need the sizes cleaned out to get a long term result. Now, I'd say half, maybe, but not more than that. You know, would benefit from surgery, but if you do the hyperbaric and they get well long term, that's wonderful. They don't need the surgery, but if they keep relapse, and that's why, and they can't go back into house, you know? Yeah, they got Thank You for your lecture tonight. It's very illuminating. Thank you. You're welcome. Dr alloy wants to know if you could show the ionizer again and talk a little bit. Yeah, let's go to that. I want to talk about that stuff because it's important.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:38
Can you see it? Yep, all right, so this is a fan, and this ionizer over here goes in it. And this thing is called a decent stereonizer. It's from Israel. It's about, if you buy 100 of them, it's about $130 a piece. Otherwise it's about $400 a piece. So

Unknown Speaker  1:35:01
what it does if you hook it up to the fan electrical system, so that when the fan is on, it is on, and you do it inside the HVAC system, or inside this fan here, this is a portable version. It makes a trillion ions per second. It'll fill up a room in just a few seconds, floor to ceiling, and it removes mo mycotoxins, VOCs, viruses and bacteria from the air with no hydroxyl and no ozone. This is probably the most important thing. I told you, this thing right here, so and then the two guys that I told you to see to get to get it from.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:48
Okay, see these, these two phone numbers, yeah, these two phone numbers you can get this thing from, and they can come install it. They'll go to different states. It takes about 20 minutes to install it. Or you can buy it and get a good HVAC person to to put it in for you. But also you need a portable unit, but this ought to be on it ought to be a mandate if you have an HVAC system that has to be on it, or you can't have an HVAC system, that's how good it is. It can't hurt you, because it doesn't make ozone hydroxyl, and when the fans on its own, so it's filling up the room. Now, this thing is rated for 6000 cubic feet a minute, so that's like a commercial fan on a huge office system and on a home system. That's even better, because you know, your overkill, Overkill is good in a house, and so it should be on every commercial system and every school everywhere. You would have much less fun. You could grow in the coral ever, and that's where it is most of the time. So these are the phone numbers to call to get that and then these products is a company I started, like, 20 years ago, called micro balance. Help is, this wasn't anything out there that wasn't toxic to people. So we made these candles you stick in a room, and they remove the molar mycotoxins from the air in about two hours in a 12 or 12 space in it. And so you can take them on a trip. You put it in your house, and this, this you put in the fog or the solution, and you dilute it, and that's what we fog with, is four citrus seed extracts, basically. And then this is the laundry attitude. So the laundry added is a little different. You just put use your same detergent that you always use, and just put that in there with it, and it really gets rid of mold. And the key is getting rid of mycotoxins at the same time, not just the mole so. And then this stuff here, this sinus defense, two point is a unique thing. Lot of these patients, they're immune suppressed, and so they're getting all the stuff that comes along, strep, Staph, tip is pneumococcal, some office, Lyme, sepstein Barr, cytomegalovirus, the three herpes and the mycotoxins. All of those antibodies are in this bottle. See, I can say that to you, but I can't say anywhere else. So, so,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:32
the the way we did this, we took and then vaccinated the cows with all that, uh, pregnant cows, and then when they had the calf, we collect the colostrum, and then we it's got Transfer Factor. And the Transfer Factor works against all those things, and you can't hurt yourself with it's in alcohol. Some alcohol is in there. So you, you know, you can't put it in your eye or anything, but you can spray it on your skin, but you spray it on your tongue and spray your throat like if throat like if you start getting a sore throat, sprayed the throat where it's sore and it's gone right then and then just when the blue comes along, just keep using it three or four times a day. Spray your throat with it. Spray under your tongue. And if you use beta glucan, it amps it up 300% by increasing the Y cell count. The white cells are what what you're making. The Y cells come in because these antibodies, you know, Transfer Factor, acts as an antibody and attaches to the organism, and then the Beta Glucan y cell can take it out. So these two are on that web page, and these are, just keep these around all the times, like soap, you know, just, it just works. So all these organisms are in it. These are the most common organisms, especially in chronic sinusitis. And it's, it really helps lives, people. It's not the only answer for you. It's just another thing to use the load to lower the load. Is all you're doing.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:04
And then these, this is the Mole plate kits here. And this is the fog. The fog is unbelievable. It shoots about 30 feet, and you don't put it down, you walk around with it, and just fog everything. You can do a lot of stuff quickly with that. And then we use, this is a little squirt bottle. You use the still water, the salt packs are already in there, and you put Citra drops in there instead of the shk. They're really badly infected. I use sski. And this is a different a nose spray that it's got a lot of antifungals in it. This is all the stuff you can get over the counter on our web page, and then this is what we use. We use to detox them. We use the first of all, you got to use oxygen, 100% oxygen at about eight leaves a minute for two hours a day. Or you can split it up, especially if you're doing something like walking or in treadmill or something that even works better, but like you, if you start having trouble after 10 minutes, and that's your time, so you have to draw it back, but it's good Beta Glucan NAC. I mean, not beta glucan, glutathione, NAC, and a liver cleanse, those three, and then your probiotic. And then cell troponin is actually growth hormone in a bottle, so you just spray it under your tongue.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:34
So and then this is the stuff I use with oxygen. If you don't use oxygen, you don't dilate the vessels. You can't get out of the brain here as well. You just prove that with a hyperbaric oxygen. So the next thing is that everybody could have is oxygen concentrators got to be 10 liter. Minute machine can't be a four liter. And, you know, prescribe that for them. Insurance won't pay for it. It's like $1,500 or something for that. And they'll use that every day and do all this stuff. Then if you go back, you know, and look at the brain on MRI with AI, you can see the mycotoxins go away like I showed you when you're using oxygen. It doesn't work as well without oxygen. And then hyperbaric is awesome do that, but they've got to be out of the out of it. Are they wasting their money? Soon as they finish and get cleared up, they'll go back home and get sick again, so just make sure they're in a safe place when you start hyperbaric, so they don't waste their money.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:43
And so then this is most of this. Yeah, so all these things are the basic stuff I use. Now. We got training videos if you if you can, when you click that, you have 15 training videos come up,

Unknown Speaker  1:43:06
if you just shoot that with your phone. So this drop box here, that's a drop box page where you can see all my training videos. I figured if I got hit by a truck, somebody needs to know this stuff, so I made 15 videos. So this is like the dropbox video. Just right? Just shoot that with your phone so you can go to that site and look at those videos. They're real simple. I made them short so you wouldn't go to sleep, you know, so you don't have to be an ENT to do your techniques, to do the surgery you do, but all the other stuff that I just showed you, know anybody can do that. You know you just like anybody can wash your nose out and put stuff in their nose with a nebulizer, that Rhino sprint works better than a spray. So you put, you can get any pharmacist to mix like the way I told you, amputation is three milligrams per ounce of water. Boricon is always 12.5 milligrams per ounce of water. So multiply it if you want to, you know, make six ounces. Just do the math, and just tell the pharmacist how much you wanted to put in there. And then you can you can irrigate with it, or I put it in that nebulizer. After they irrigate, you want them to clean their nose out first and then nebulize. Don't nebulize on top of all the snot. You know, you clean the nose first, and nebulizer goes in better. So this is just really easy stuff. Anybody can do this and then get them on some antifungals and oxygen. Oxygen is a big deal, and hyperbaric you can do a lot of good, but hammer them with the environment. Just hammer them that everybody thinks they can do all the stuff you tell them to do, and go get the hyperbaric and they're gonna be fine. They're not going to be fine. If they still go back to a bad house, they just waste all their money. They'll be sick in another day, you know, because they can't dump it. You can't fix that.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:23
Dr Bill, can I go to questions? Yeah, that's what it's going to do next. You sure? Go ahead. Alright. Dennis, that was a great presentation. You should have your own protocol scheme, like Shoemaker and camp bill, too. The sound of it, you put a lot of work in it. Shoemaker, I say, I don't disagree with a lot of stuff. He says some of this stuff to in my world is incorrect, and a lot of it's correct, but that's about all I have to say about that. I You know what I do, I know it works, and what I do that they don't do as I'm able to go into the nose and remove some of the causative spores so they stop making mycotoxin, and that's key in some of these places you or you can't get them better. Well, since you mentioned that, do you also there's a lot of talk about marcons. Have you heard others? Let's talk about that. I'm glad you brought that. So there are three things that are always talk Mark ons, mast cell activation syndrome and the biofilm. Those three things are the same thing caused by the same thing. It's all fungus. Now, if you get rid of the fungus, all of those things are treated and go away. Now Mark ons only, or any bacteria that you find in the nose with a culture only needs to be treated if you're having purulence, if you're not having any purulent drainage, you don't need to treat it. Why? Because who has staph in the nose? Everyone is breathing, okay. Okay. It's part of the normal flora. So it's like saying, you know, Miss Jones, you have E Coli in your stew. We have had emergency big spray for your rectum. You know, that's how that's what this is like. So it's all BS unless they're infected. And big spray has never gotten anybody Well, long term for from any nasal infection of Marcos Never, not even one. As soon as you stop using it, it's back. Why? Because the fungus is still there, making pits in the lining, destroying the cilia, so you can't move the mucus out so they stay infected. So you gotta treat the cause, which is the fungus. So that's a common spray that's being used in the shoemaker protocol. That's right. Another one that they use in the protocol is silver and with EDTA. Do you have any background with that? Yeah, now Ed they're trying to break up the biofilm. But remember, why is the biofilm there? The biofilm is there because the immune reaction of fungus causes pits in the lining which become a lab upon which to build a biofilm. So if you don't have the pitch, you can't have the biofilm, and you don't have the you don't get the infections because the cilia move it out. So if you focus on getting rid of the fungus in the nose, you have a longer term result than with Dex spray. They're treating the surface and not the cause. They're treating a result of the fungus. You understand, right? So you're seeing these should be done in combination, first kill the fungus and then use the other ones. Next, is that correct? Well, how else on that slide I showed you where it was all white in there, all I use is Amphotericin. Once I killed the fungus, I didn't have any problem with the bacteria. But I'm not saying you shouldn't use an antibacterial. If they have purulence. You should treat it. That's right. You should treat it and beg spray is fine to treat it with that, but you're never going to get it well long term, because you haven't addressed the fungus. It's going to keep coming back. Well, as as the recent talks have been transpiring, beg spray has suddenly now become a lot of organisms becomes resistant to it just because of the tremendous use of big spray in the past. Well, that's why he bet it's because, it's because you still have paralyzed silly and and pits that are full of purely mucus that are going to get infected by whatever's living there. You're not going to ever kill everything. So if you kill one group, another group is going to grow, you know, right? So the key is, you must treat, train yourself to treat the cause of the problem. The cause is fungus. If you don't get the environment straight, I don't care what you do, you're not going to ever get them well. Long term, you'll get them well for 10 minutes, and you're just gonna have to keep giving them stuff, but you want to get them well, long term, right, right? So you mentioning about treatments. Some questions here about, do you use it COVID, intra nasal? You've been talking about it about oral, but do you use it intra nasal? Also, sure you can use it intra nasal. Yeah. So just like we use, I use vorazo. I like it better because it goes to brain better. Nasal it's very similar to intraconaz, but yeah, we use 12.5 milligrams. 12.5 milligrams, you said, yeah, yeah, it's great. So you mentioned about empathy and as a nasal spray, do you go as far as doing empiricist in the oral Yeah, you can do 250 milligram 250 milligram capsules twice a day. It's not absorbed in the gut, so you won't hurt them with that. Now, how they would have killed them because, you know, knocked their kidneys out of that dose, but orally, it won't. It's not absorbing the gut, thus less kidney damage. Is that we're saying when you do 00, because it's not absorbed in the gut. Ah, okay, so Amphotericin that most doctors don't know that. So if you take advertisers out the 50 milligrams three times a day, you'll, you'll cure a lot of people, but you're going to kill some of them because you knock the kidneys out. All right, so IV is when it's dangerous orally in a capsule. Is not you want it to stay in the gut, and you want to wipe out all these you're not trying to get it systemically if you want to, because I was thinking before, because, all you know, don't, don't use amphoteric for a systemic drug. Or, you know, try to make it absorbable. Well, I put liposomes or something, you'll kill somebody doing that. So, so you wanted to stay in the gut to treat yeast, so use a capsule of it. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:12
you're mentioning about the assessment, like most of your presentation focused on assessing the sinuses. Do you have any blood work recommendations for pain, like pre or even post that you keep an eye out for in terms of treatment response?

Unknown Speaker  1:52:31
Well, I like to follow the hormones. I like to do cultures and you know it's good to get some immune workup to see which organisms are there then and then physiologic workups, whatever you like, to track that goes along with fungus. But see, I've got the advantages. I can take a scope and look in the nose and tell what's going on,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:03
sometimes better than a blood test can. And so I'm not against any blood test if a blood test helps you do it, but I don't use them that much. In my practice, I'm imaging and I'm watching, and then we do allergy testing and that kind of thing, and the routine blood work, but we don't do,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:27
you know, and the and the antibody levels that they have in their system to different things. We do all that, but I don't do any of the, the long physiologic workups. I don't even know how to read that stuff, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:53:41
Too complicated, yeah, um, one of the things I think questions here was your case of the Parkinson's Yeah, they were asking if you both targeted the sinus along with systemic therapy for your mold, or it was just that all sinus therapy that you did for the Parkinson's patient. Now these, both of those patients already had good neurologist, but they weren't moving the ball because they were so inundated by their environmental load that they could they could get better. There's too much mycotoxin in there, you know, destroying their brain, and so they would get short periods of improvement. As soon as the medicine was gone, they would be back to the original so when I removed the most spores and mycotoxins from the sinuses, and they had their air right, they moved out and had their air right, then they got a really good result from the surgery. They got a lot better after the surgery. But their their neurological medicine actually worked, because the stuff was out of their brain. You see, the mycotoxins was out of their brain. So that's why it works so well. We, in other words, we remove the cause of the Parkinson's, which in these cases were mycotoxins.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:04
Now this is not mycotoxins. There's other things too, but those patients, that's what was wrong with it, right? Well, definitely this is a different, and you very unique approach to mold therapy, and this adds to the growing list. And as I think, other practitioners agree here in the call that we have been combining specific protocols in relation to mold therapy, and some might be sticking with their own protocol, like just a plain Shoemaker or a Campbell protocol, but I think the key here is opening ourselves up to these different protocols that we can combine And mix and hopefully can help the patient, which is the most important thing at the end of the day, I don't think anything's right or wrong. Whatever works is okay, but you gotta always think about, am I removing why this patient's sick so my medicine can work better? You know, that's what if, you know, it's mold, you got to get involved environmentally, and you got to kill the fungus. You know, that's the first step. And then removing the toxins is, you know, they come in through the nose, so the highest concentrations in the sinuses. So if you don't address the sinuses, you're not going to get anywhere, because they'll set up camp there, and they're churning out a manufacturing facility of after they're in a clean environment with all the most bores in their sinuses. So a CT scan is very helpful in telling you how much infection they have their sinuses. You know, if they've got a lot in there, then you gotta, you have to address it. So if you're doing everything you can do, and you know they're in a good environment and they're not moving the needle, you gotta check their sizes, because that's where it's hiding out. Well, great work. Dr Dennis, thank you so much. You got all my questions. X down, okay, you're welcome. Hey, thank you, Doctor Dennis, the great as always. Thank you for coming back. I don't if you remember us from a couple years ago, but you filled in some of some of the holes for us again. I'll keep feeling it homeless. You learn something every day, if you if you stay awake. You know that we do. Speaking of learning something every day, what do you doctor Nario, what are you learning from Andrew Weil, I told you, don't be cycling for too long. It will kill your peroneal nerves to give you chronic sexual dysfunction. That wasn't an eye opener for me. You had to go. You had to go. You had to go all the way to University of Arizona to I think we, most of us, already knew this. Did well. I did it. I was planning to be the next Lance Armstrong. So, so much for that dream. Were you going to be blood doping?

Unknown Speaker  1:57:50
So give me the Give me Give the atmosphere. Give me the atmospheres for the hyperbaric again, 1.4 into 2.5 is that right? I think he said 2.5 ATMs for hard shell. He was promoting more hard shell than soft shell. And then you increase it as you move along. Okay, yeah, so that's term, Dr Bailey,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:19
okay, well, I've got several patients that did hyperbaric, and all of them got better. So I think that's a really important thing. I got a kid that, you know, he was a real bright kid. He's like, 1718, going to college already, but he just sit in the chair with his head down like this, and just, you know, just totally whacked out, couldn't function. And I did all they got out of the house, I operate on, did all this stuff. He got better, but then they got the hyperbaric, and he's back. He is unbelievable. Now, the hyperbaric was the cherry on the pie. He really needed that in a and that's, that's how I know it works so well, because I got him to a certain extent, but I couldn't get him any further. The hyperbaric removes all that you couldn't do with all this other stuff. So it ought to be kind of on the front end, but you know, you go put some pressure on the kidneys when you do that. So you gotta not go crazy and knock the kidneys. You could, you could really hurt the kidneys. I think if you did too much, too fast,

Unknown Speaker  1:59:31
because you mobilizing, it's coming out, but it's going to come out through the kidneys.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:39
Okay, all right, thank you so much. Anybody else? Have any comments questions? I enjoy teaching, I guess you can tell that, but I'll talk to you all day. But what I'm doing works, and if it helps anybody great, I know that what I told you to do is going to be helpful for you. If you can just focus on getting the air right and getting after the nose. Clean the nose out, really good. Have them do it twice a day, wash out and then nebulize with you with your antifungals. If I can leave you with that, that will help whatever you're doing, because it comes in through the nose and exits through the urine. So, so where is it, everywhere, right? So, okay, all right. And with that, Dr Burgess, I see you're on. How are you doing? Thank you. I'm doing good. Thank you. Dr Dennis, very useful info. Appreciate it. Where? Let me see, where are you? I'm blacked out. Okay, cuz I'm naked at home. I'm the guy opening the moon. Sorry, darn it was our, it's our. It was our big chance, and it must be called to Las Vegas. Doctor Quinn has a shirt on, so, Oh, it's cold. I have a question. Yeah. I had a mold mitigation done after a flood and a building I have they used high heat after they did everything else, tore out all the insulation and did all the stuff that they did, but then they used really high heat for a couple of days. Is that do any good? I hope he's not a bad thing. The thing is, if they you gotta do, where was the flood from? The upstairs? Toilet overflowed. Okay, went down through the ceiling and now through all the walls and

Unknown Speaker  2:01:44
so now all they need is one paper towel in the toilet, and you got to do the whole thing again. I know, right, alright. So the reason I'm saying this because this happened to my office years ago. Here's what you gotta do when something like that happens. There are sensors that are not expensive that you put on the floor and that they're wired once they're not battery operated, because nobody's going to change the batteries, and they go to a solenoid switch that turns the water off to the whole region. You know, that whole area automatically, because if a pipe breaks at night, you totally screwed. Your whole place is flooded, and then as soon as war is it turns it off and you get minimal damage. And so that needs to happen in every building. It's not that expensive either. It's very simple. So do that first. Now everything that got with has to come out, all the all the wall, sheet rock, all that stuff's got to come out. Sometimes the floor has got to come out. Unless it's concrete. It's got to be that first. Then, then you dry it out. I don't care how they dry it. Then you dry it out before you build back and but I would have is that your place you talking about? It's, yeah, it's not my house. It's, it's another building I have for was a little store with an apartment on top. Okay, so, so you own it? No, you own Yes, okay, so just on all the water supplies to different apartments. Just do that to everything and have the central water supply turned off. It won't cost a lot of money. The neat thing is, you get an insurance deduction when you do that, because the chief thing they have it, you know, water damage is number one in insurance claims, more than $5,000 yeah, more than five, so 20. So you want to, you want to do that in 14 insurance company, and then they, they'll lower your rate, and you'll pay for for doing it. You just, you don't want to worry with this, because somebody unknowingly, or they just don't have good sense, it's going to stuff a paper towel in there, and then you'll do the whole thing over again. You know, lime that jammed up the the works in the toilet, and they didn't hear it. So, yeah, yeah. But um, my I think they didn't go far enough. This insurance company stopped them on on the ceiling, and the bet the furthest wall, and I kind of concerned about that. Well, you're right that you got all that has to come out. You know, I guess the the easiest way to do that is to have somebody, some mole person with with a brain, and that's kind of hard to define. But if you if you got a mole person that's good. Yeah, it's cut out guys more. But mold people wanted to keep going. Insurance companies stopped them. But, well, they can't stop them if they'll take a window out of the sheet rocket and show that there's water damage and fungus in there, then see they don't want them to look if you just take windows out so you can look and prove it's a problem, then they gotta pay for it, right? That's how you get around that. But the heat should have taken care of the part that where the part that you open, but it won't you mean shoving it down the cab. It might dry it out, but drying out wall might what it was an outside wall, but I noticed that after it was painted, it seemed like that puffed up a little bit, and I wondered, okay, that's all you gotta say. If it's puffing up, it's leaking still. So is there's, you know, that means there's water underneath trying to come out. So you gotta take that sheet rock off and look inside. Okay? And you don't have to make a big deal out of it. You just get somebody with a brain to cut a square out and look in, you know. And then you can take pictures and do cultures and everything, and then they'll have to pay for it. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:00
Doctor. Gooden question, Have you considered using intra nasal cyclodextrin with hydroconazole?

Unknown Speaker  2:06:10
What cyclodextrin? Okay, that's something we talk about in these groups a lot. It's a compound that we're using to deliver various medicines, it seems to me, has some properties for mycotoxins as well, and is a very useful delivery system.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:26
I haven't tried that. You know, you could try it, see one you want to make sure it don't interfere with the chemical. And I don't have a clue. The only, the only way you you could do it, you could put some in a petri dish, you know, you know, petri dish full of fungus, you know, and then put the antifungal in there, and then on on the other side, put the antifungal mixed with the Dexter stuff you're talking about, and see if it works just as well. I like that idea. I'm gonna start using those. You use a simple agar plate. What do you get it from McKesson or something. It's called, it's called SDA, several dextrose auger. SDA auger, very common. You can order it on that website. On the website, alright, I'll get some. And then you just get a known area that's kind of moldy. And you just streak a Q tip with mole all over it on the plate, and it starts growing. And then you put your stuff in there, and you can see what what works and what does. You can put the medicine in there first, and then put the mobile on top, and you can see where the mold grows and where it doesn't grow, and see that there's a difference between the mixture in between the antifungal alone. You just don't want to turn off the antifungal inadvertently. You know, right,

Unknown Speaker  2:07:57
what's the what? What's the value in it? What? What's it do it for you?

Unknown Speaker  2:08:03
Halasa, if he were here, he could explain it better than I. But it seems to be a very potent carrier molecule of all pharmaceuticals, a lot of pharmaceutical companies are using it as a more effective carrier. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:18
well, if it makes it also you can figure out if it works better, do a spray with it and without it, and see which one works about, you know, clinically, you'll get a feel for it, but it'd be nice to put some in a little spray bottle, both ways, you know, straight and mixed, and then spray it on some mold, you know, in a plate, Yeah, and see if there's any difference, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:08:42
And then let me know. I'll give you my email is dr d Dennis at Gmail. It's hard to remember

Unknown Speaker  2:08:55
three days I

Unknown Speaker  2:09:03
Yeah, if I let me know, just send me the pictures and see be kind of fun. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:12
So, so we're probably a few years away from seeing this stuff on Go big time, but you better have a really good environmental team ready when this imaging comes out, because you're going to really need some help getting the environment right. And there's so much wrong being done, I think it's probably equal wrong and right, and then there's wasting a lot of money and it's incorrect. It's just pitiful. And, you know, they stay sick, and then their wallets empty, and they they spent their last dime, and they're still sick and they can't live in the house. I see that all the time.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:55
That's why we got this. The two numbers I told you is that the two companies I use that I've trained to do what I need them to do. Plus they were already mold train, but I and they're but they're really good to do the HVAC stuff too. HVAC ski, if you don't get that right, you're not going to get anywhere, cleaning up the mold, you know, fixing it, taking the walls out, anybody can do that. Part is, is the fiberglass issue, and the HVAC system has to be done right in a situation like that, and very few people know how to do that.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:34
Okay, all right, okay, thank you. Dr Dennis, it was great. I enjoyed it. Thank you for having me on. Appreciate having you here. Okay, everybody next week we have al Sanchez is going to be talking to us about poly MVA, which I don't know anything about, but Dr Nario is an expert. So for cancer, they use it for cancer, mitochondrial regeneration. So, yeah, it's a, it's a good supplement that's out there. Okay, great, okay, any comments, questions, and

Unknown Speaker  2:11:17
I'll not, we'll wrap it up and and we'll see you again next week. Okay, thank you, Doctor Dennis, thank you very Thank you. Good night. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai