Bill Clearfield  00:11
Hey, Stefan,

Speaker 1  00:14
hey, I'm here for the Clearfield show, world traveler, you bet. How's it going?

Bill Clearfield  00:23
Good, good. You do. Well, where's Waldo with you? Where in the world is Stefan?

Speaker 1  00:30
I'm here seeing patients, lifting weights, the usual,

Bill Clearfield  00:35
looking good and feeling gorgeous. You bet?

Speaker 1  00:40
Okay, gotta save lives while looking good doing it.

Bill Clearfield  00:43
That's right, you know, look looks makes us all look good, right?

Speaker 1  00:50
And I've really upgraded my studio. I'm gonna get provide some high quality content in 4k

Bill Clearfield  00:58
It's about time. Yeah, I know, right. You don't want to end up like me,

Unknown Speaker  01:04
filming from a shoe box.

Bill Clearfield  01:06
That's right. Exactly right. Yeah, so, and here's Dr Nario. We got exciting things to talk about today.

Speaker 1  01:15
Yeah. Where are the Filipinos? I want to talk to them about tennis making history at the US Open, a young Filipino girl,

Speaker 2  01:22
maybe Allah, right, yeah, yep. She's one of our natural, I guess, national heroes right now. I saw her match yesterday, amazing,

Speaker 1  01:33
pretty exciting. I guess I want to, I want to hear from the Filipino crowd here how, how big this is for them,

Speaker 2  01:40
like Manny Pacquiao. You know Manny Pacquiao, right?

Unknown Speaker  01:45
Uh, no,

Speaker 2  01:46
no. He's one of those famous boxers. Oh, yeah, maybe, yeah, when an athlete kind of hits it on the big stage, there's no traffic on the streets. Everybody just watching TV. They're like a national here when they get back home. So this is probably one of those moments this girl will be getting that type of of treatment when it gets to back to the Philippines again. Ah, wow. That's Are you watching it now? Are you there? Like, what? No, I'm

Speaker 1  02:15
at home, but I've been watching it on TV. I'll probably put it on a little bit during this lecture tonight, too.

Speaker 2  02:20
Oh, okay, some some side step in there, multitasking, yeah, always

Bill Clearfield  02:27
give him something to do in case he gets bored. You usually bug off by six at

Speaker 1  02:33
our time, usually Logan drags me up. She's like quick talking to those geezers. I want you to tickle me or something, geezers. She can't stand Halas voice,

Bill Clearfield  02:44
well, you know that she's gonna get lying

Unknown Speaker  02:47
if I let it drone on for like three hours

Bill Clearfield  02:51
to get in line for that. Especially, you know, when he's given one of those talks and he starts going on and on and on. It just never, oh,

Speaker 1  02:57
last night we were there till 10:30pm they wouldn't stop.

Unknown Speaker  03:01
Oh, my goodness, isn't

Bill Clearfield  03:03
he? Isn't he in Libya? Or, oh,

Speaker 1  03:05
yeah, he was in Libya. It was Joseph. It was, we went on till 10:30pm with Joseph last night. It was, I was trying,

Bill Clearfield  03:14
we try not to do that, though. But you know, sometimes it well, no, I don't think we've ever gone that late.

Speaker 1  03:24
Well, yeah, well, you're a 5pm time, so that's probably like,

Bill Clearfield  03:29
Well, yeah, but I try to get it done by seven. So what, you know? So it's 10 year time, but I tried to have everything wrapped up. Well, you know, all the the video done, and the and the participant list to the speaker and be out of here. That's great to try to get it done. So, you know, you know, living out here is, you know, because I, you know, I lived for 50 some years, 59 years on the east coast. So you get used to it after a little while. So, but the time change. My grandkids can't, don't, can't wrap it around their head. You know that? I'll call them at nine in the morning. I said, I'm eating breakfast. And they said, What are you talking about? It's lunchtime. Yeah. So I said, I said to him, I said, you know, there's a baseball game. There's a they call them at the after a Phillies game. It was a four o'clock in the afternoon there, and it was one o'clock here. I said, there's a Phillies there's a Phillies game one, and it hasn't started here yet. And they said, No, it's, it's just ended. I said, No, it didn't. It's only one o'clock here. It hasn't even started yet. So they couldn't quite, they can't quite wrap their head around so

Speaker 1  04:38
almost cramped my bicep, man, I hit it hard today in back day.

Speaker 2  04:43
Don't do that. So I've heard you're gonna do a, is that a retreat in your clinic? Is that what's happening?

Speaker 1  04:51
Yeah, yeah. I got, supposedly I got Hala said, Joseph and Dr klatz are gonna come and train. We'll see.

Bill Clearfield  05:00
I want to see the video of that, especially we saw halasa.

Speaker 1  05:05
Yeah, you got to see halassa. That was a real treat last time.

Unknown Speaker  05:09
Yeah,

Speaker 2  05:09
watch out for injuries.

Unknown Speaker  05:12
Yeah, go easy on them.

Bill Clearfield  05:14
We saw halasa in, you know, in the in the cold plunge,

Speaker 1  05:18
he jumped out like a fish out of water, a wake up call, right? Yeah. The goal is you send me the sick doctors and come to us good diet, training, sauna to detox, cold, plunging for the inflammation, red light therapy for the mitochondrial health. We're going to fix the doctors. They're going to get healthy so that they can heal themselves and then heal patients.

Speaker 2  05:46
Oh, I get it. You start from them, and then now they do the thing for their patients.

Bill Clearfield  05:51
Yeah, we don't want to do that.

Unknown Speaker  05:55
Get your VPCs out. You need those docs to you love faster.

Bill Clearfield  06:03
That's right, is the hottest thing going every gym rats, uh, caught banging my door down for it. Now, all of a sudden, it's, it's the big it's the greatest thing since sliced bread.

Speaker 2  06:14
Steroids anymore, not testosterone. Oh, no, of course.

Bill Clearfield  06:19
Oh, that's, that's old school.

Unknown Speaker  06:23
We need new ones. So,

Bill Clearfield  06:26
yeah, I think, I think we've rode the quest, the crest of the GLP ones also,

Speaker 1  06:31
yeah, well, you're not getting into redta yet to what, right, true type.

Bill Clearfield  06:39
Oh, I've had that for two years. What are you

Unknown Speaker  06:40
talking about? Okay, come

Bill Clearfield  06:43
on, Who you talking to?

Speaker 2  06:46
You seeing better with that Steph Stefan Reddit, through tried versus towards the appetite?

Unknown Speaker  06:52
Yeah. Yeah, way better.

Speaker 2  06:56
I think Jillian right. Jillian is with the new company now, yeah, so she's kind of talking to me about it.

Speaker 1  07:06
Yeah, it's good. It's really powerful, anti inflammatory as well,

Speaker 2  07:11
I bet. Yeah. Dr Bill here has been doing that for right? Yeah, we've been doing it for years. Is it years or just months? I think Dr Bill,

Bill Clearfield  07:20
yeah, we Yeah. I got it from Jay Campbell.

Unknown Speaker  07:25
Well, an arm or a leg. Type of price,

Bill Clearfield  07:29
the original one, yeah, the original price. I think, I think I paid him 499 for two or for one for two. 499 a piece for two little bottles, I think six milligrams. Oh, what a rip off. Originally, when it first came out, that's bad. Not since then, it's, it's comparable to the tirzepatide

Unknown Speaker  07:50
man. That's bad.

Speaker 2  07:53
Oh, did you tell them about our stuff? I think we're getting closer to did you get my email? I sent to you the answers to your questions. I did so, so you gotta announce that later you

Bill Clearfield  08:06
can talk well, you can talk about it now, because the doctor Shallenberger is not on yet. So,

Unknown Speaker  08:14
So Brian,

Bill Clearfield  08:15
why don't you? You want to, you want to tell him, or you want me to tell

Speaker 2  08:19
him, since, either way. So it's the conference for

Bill Clearfield  08:23
areas. Go ahead, do it real quick.

Speaker 2  08:26
Yes, it's the conference for the four, five and six. And we're actually going into, oh, here's an update for you. So pepper mill is contacting me still. So I told them, hey, we got an offer from element already. So what they said was, send us that offer. We're going to match it. So now again, I don't know how Matt, how of a match they can do, because that, that pricing is pretty, pretty good, isn't it?

Bill Clearfield  08:51
Yeah, it's, uh, $600 a day,

Unknown Speaker  08:55
yeah. So,

Bill Clearfield  08:57
well, the pepper mill didn't charge us, if I remember correctly. They didn't charge us for the room. They only charge us $50 a day for the for the AV, which is unheard of, but we had to buy 30 rooms for three days. So yeah, and, and we're anticipating most, most of the low in house will be locals, since it's kind of a kind of a little bit of a short notice, but so, but everybody's welcome. Anybody wants to speak, we're still putting the speakers together. So December, 4, fifth and sixth in Reno, we'll get some publicity out on it shortly. And, yeah, maybe we can call it, call it pepper mill tomorrow, and see if they'll, they'll match it. Then I'd rather go there, although Doctor Burgess doesn't like it because it's a it's a regular casino, and there's smoke there. But so they don't, they don't have, they don't have smoke at the at the at the element hotel, there's no, there's no, there's no there's no slot machines there or anything. So we go for the good prices. So yeah, we go for the good prices. So,

Speaker 3  10:10
yeah, pepper Yeah. I mean, you can go to pepper mill and not be exposed to any smoke. You don't have to go in the casino where they

Bill Clearfield  10:17
had us. They had us, actually on the fourth floor the first time, and which I didn't even know they had meeting rooms there, but it was kind of a last minute type thing. The first time we were there, we had to go through the casino there in to get to the elevators to get to the fourth floor.

Speaker 3  10:38
So you know what? It's amazing there. You technically don't have to if you know how to get there without going through the casino, but it's a learning experience.

Bill Clearfield  10:52
Yeah, I know most everybody was okay with it, except for Dr Burgess, because, you know, he's kind of a cry baby. So,

Unknown Speaker  11:01
hey, a

Unknown Speaker  11:03
little bit of a bad thing is a good thing.

Speaker 4  11:06
I come from, I come from royalty. I am a royal pain in the ass.

Bill Clearfield  11:14
John's our sort of senior member here, Frank, so we,

Speaker 3  11:19
if we don't give an old guy. In other words,

Bill Clearfield  11:22
yes, it'll give him a hard time. He won't think we love him.

Speaker 4  11:26
Bill's an old guy, too. What we're doing, Dr Shallenberger, is trying to get some young blood. It's finally here this we have to deal with these young guys.

Speaker 3  11:37
Yeah, that's the hope of the future,

Bill Clearfield  11:42
really, yeah, so, so, so for this conference, it's, it's really, for everybody but Frank, I don't know if you notice or

Unknown Speaker  11:51
know it or not, he's

Speaker 2  11:52
already a speaker. Frank, you commit. You said yesterday, right? Yeah, I did, yeah, yeah. So he's part of it.

Bill Clearfield  11:59
It's where the it's going to be credits for that, for the Nevada board of homeopathic medicine, also, Dr Gerber is going to be part of it. Dr Fong Noma is going to be part of it. So hopefully we'll get, you know, a fair, you know, in house crowd, and then we'll arrange it online also, and we should be able to get CME credits, you know, Dr Halas is sort of smarmy credits, but they work. I mean, they're real, I'm not sure, I'm not sure exactly how you know that, but they're real, they work. Okay, so we'll get it, we'll get it all together, and it's coming together pretty quickly here. So unfortunately, we had to do it before the end of the year, because the Nevada homeopathic people need, need accredited credits. And we ran it into some, you know, logistics issues, ammg, a 4m a 4m is the weekend after. The weekend before. Is Thanksgiving. The weekend before that is ammg. And then there's a couple of other conferences that are, that are going on pretty much the whole month of November. So we fit it in. I hope we can get, you know, a fair crowd, and, you know, online. I mean, I've done that, you know myself, many times. So hopefully we'll, we'll have a pretty nice crowd. So

Speaker 2  13:28
and sponsors, somebody out there is willing to get their product in the in convention, I guess we don't have conventional but it's going to be exhibitor place. We're open for anybody who wants to be an exhibitor,

Bill Clearfield  13:44
be be an exhibitor. So, so let me okay, I'm gonna, do you have a tip in a week? Doctor? Yeah, it's

Speaker 4  14:01
gotta be, it's gotta be called the leak of the week of the

Speaker 2  14:06
week. It's not an STD. Just to kind of give everybody heads up about that. Okay, so,

Bill Clearfield  14:13
so, just so everybody who's new knows that. So Dr Nario is taking the DR wild integrative medicine court the city of Arizona. So we we get it a week from him, because we're all we're all either too busy or too tired and worn out to take the class ourselves. So Dr Nario is young and and enthusiastic, and every week he's gives us, I'm still working on the on the bicycle seat from the first one, from the first Yeah.

Speaker 2  14:52
Alright. So for today, as part of our curriculum, we're in vitamins. So today's quick talk is about vitamin A. It's like the overreaching friend, great when used, right? But you can get in trouble if you mix it with the wrong crowd, like cigarettes. So there are two main types of vitamin A. One is pre form, which is what we call the retinoids. This is retinal palmitate, acetate, propionate. It's usually animal based or synthetic. That's why it's already active. Great absorption, but excess can be toxic. So pro vitamin A carotenoids is the other one, which is beta carotene, alpha carotene, beta crypto, santhin. And this is plant based, and must be converted to retinol so it's safer. So this is the one that we usually see in our supplements that we give to our patients. So what is this? In terms of how we use it, as integrative, integrative doctors, we use it a lot for immune support, strengthen mucosal barriers in the gut, lungs, and boost T cell function, even for the vision in the eye, as we all know, retinal health, night vision, dry eyes, macular support, and even skin and epithelial health. So this helps with wound healing, acne, eczema, psoriasis, it can be used topically or orally, but one of the four Rs that we use for our gut repair, it's used for gut integrity, so supports intestinal lining repair, helpful and leaky gut or mouth absorption. But here's the smoking gun, which actually caught my attention. So beta carotene and smokers, so supplements, so not food, are the problematic issues here. So the ATBC trial had studied that male smokers who smoked more than five cigarettes per day, many, I guess, or even more than more than 20 years of history on a 20 milligram per day beta carotene increases lung cancer risk by 18 to 28% in smokers. So this was a study done in 1996 and even former smokers are prone to this. And they're not spared studies from true 2013 so mechanism here is, think antioxidant flip sides, smoke stress turns beta carotene into a pro oxidant, so from antioxidant function. So non smokers mostly safe, sometimes even helpful. So food sources here are safer. So the issue is supplements, especially synthetic ones, so don't So the lesson us providers, who wants to kind of fast track everything, is, Do not skip the social history. If you don't ask about smoking, your supplement plan could backfire, like giving fireworks to someone holding a lighter. So vitamin A can boost immunity, vision, skin and gut health, but if you smoke better, keratin supplements are like inviting gasoline into a campfire. Bad idea. Non smokers eat the rainbow. Glow with your veggies. That's our league of the week.

Bill Clearfield  17:41
Okay, great, alright, alright. So, yeah, we've used it actually for just routine coughs and colds with combination with vitamin D. And we've used 150,003 day regimen, 150,000 vitamin A, 15,000 of vitamin D on day 150, 1005 5000 on day two, and then 100,010 1000 on day three. We seem to to have a pretty good track record with that. So, right, not sure if that you know, three days of that would

Speaker 2  18:19
affect. No, no. We're talking about here people who are liking vitamin A as one of their maintenance and thinking that it's helpful and not thinking that they're smoking history. It's insignificant. So we always have I skip on the social history. That's why it struck me, and I think I needed to present that, not only for you guys, but for myself, as a reminder.

Bill Clearfield  18:39
All right, I'm going to have to remind you I'm lazy. So yeah, I know we all know that. But yeah, I know

Unknown Speaker  18:46
I slack off. All

Bill Clearfield  18:49
right, thank you so much for that again. Yes, I'll go through all the videos and pull that, pull them out, and see if I can. We can sort of get a compilation here, so then we can have a quiz on it, and we can have our own we can have our board certification from your tips of the week. So do that? Okay? Alright, so everybody, I am very happy to introduce our our speaker tonight, and why it took us this long to get him here is probably my fault, but he is Dr Frank Shallenberger, and he is world renowned. He's the founder of the Nevada center for alternative and anti aging medicine. He is the lead leader in clinical ozone therapy. He's dual licensed in Nevada as an MD and an homeopathic MD, he integrates conventional and homeopathic approaches in practice. He's the president emeritus and program director of the American Academy of ozone therapy, which I was proud to have been asked to speak at this year. And it was a it was just super. It was really fantastic. And it was our people. I mean, everybody there was was on, was on the page that we're on. Unlike the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association, where nobody he's an original appointee to the ISCO three, when the international scientific committee was founded. He created prolozone injection therapy and developed the bio energy testing so you know that we know what that means. Frank, I have you, have you back at least twice more to assess oxygen utilization and mitochondrial function. He edits the second opinion medical newsletter. He was trained at the University of Maryland, School of Medicine, post graduate training at Mount Zion hospital in San Francisco and UC Davis School of Medicine licenses, as I mentioned, in Nevada, as a homeopath and as an MD President Emeritus, board member and conference program chair of The American Academy of ozone therapy. He originally originated prolozone therapy, bio energy testing for clinical assessment of oxygen utilization. He has a US patent on methods to analyze biological age using vo two slash, rvr based respiratory gas metrics. He teaches mozone therapy to physicians since the early 1990s and he's the editor of Second Opinion newsletter, so it's my pleasure, and we're pleased to have him here. And you're all in for a real treat. So Frank, dr, Frank Shallenberger, please take it away. You're a legend.

Speaker 3  21:38
Thanks, Bill. Appreciate that excessively long introduction, but I appreciate it

Bill Clearfield  21:46
well, you know, you can't get your head swelled, so you can't then I failed at my mission here. So,

Speaker 3  21:54
real good. Hey, it's great to be with everybody. You know, I don't know how, how many of you are using ozone, or if you really know what ozone is, so I thought, and I hope I'm not speaking to a choir here, but I hope I'm going to start off with the very basics of this thing to to to give you, to give you a background, because it just sounds kind of weird. Here you've got one of the most powerful oxidants in the universe, not the most, but one of them. And, and we're talking about you should give that to people who are under oxidant stress. So What's all that about? And so we'll that I'm that's where I'm going to start. I'm going to just start off with what ozone is and why in the world, does it make any sense to take somebody who has a disease that is manifested by oxidant stress and actually give them one of the most powerful oxidants in the universe as a therapy, and it works. So we're going to talk about that. First of all, let me just say that ozone is three oxygen atoms sharing the amount of electrons that make two oxygen atoms stable. So, as you know, singlet oxygen can't exist in nature. It doesn't have enough electrons. It's not balanced. So, so you got one singlet oxygen here, you got another one over here. They decide to get married. They come in close together and form a molecule called o2 and what that's a stable molecule, relatively stable anyhow, because it's now sharing the electrons, and so it's a pretty stable molecule. You can't really pull that apart too easily. Now what, what ozone is, is we take that molecule, we take oh two, we run it through a generator, which is basically an instrument that shoots an electrical current across where the oxygen comes in through. Now, it's not going to catch on fire because it's it's got glass or or stainless steel electrodes that the oxygen is going through. But as the oxygen is going through that electrode, uh, electric shocks are put into the electrode, which take which that the shock of that electricity takes the O twos and splits them apart for nanoseconds into ones. But again, that can't last for more than a nanosecond, and instantaneously coming out the other side of the generator is oxygen, because they've recombined, but somewhere between two and 3% of those oxygen atoms will combine to form ozone, which is three oxygen atoms sharing the amount of electrons that makes two oxygen atoms stable. In other words, it's an unstable molecule and it lacks an electron. That's the nature of an oxygen. It lacks an electron, and it very powerfully wants an electron. So when, when I'm talking about, and we'll get into the clinical uses of this, but when I'm talking about using ozone to do this, or using ozone to do that, I think it's important to understand that all ozone does is move an electron. So let me give you an example. Good Clinical example. I have a whole series of cases now of bladder cancer, and I have several most of these cases, the bladder cancer is extending through the propria, which, if you've looked into this, you know that our conventional guys want to, like, remove the bladder and or give systemic chemotherapy for it. I've cured so far. I'm at 100% and all I'm doing is I'm shooting ozone into the bladder as a special protocol for this, but that's all I'm doing. Now, what's happening in there? When the ozone gas gets into that bladder, it's going to grab an electron, that's what it's going to do. Now, where's it going to get the electron in? It's going to get it almost always from cell membranes. The cell membranes are rich in polyunsaturated fats, which are a rich source of electrons. So it's going to go in there like and to use the bladder again, and you got the epithelium in there, and it's going to grab all these electrons from the epithelium in that bladder. Now, what do you got? Now, in a matter of a minute or two, the ozone itself is gone. It's just been converted back into oxygen because it got the electrons it wanted. But what you've created in that process is a whole series of peroxides inside that bladder, basically lipid peroxides. So anytime you introduce ozone into a body tissue, and we'll talk about all the ways you can use this. Basically, the ozone is gone in seconds, and all you have left is a bunch of lipid peroxides. Now what's cool about this is the lipid peroxides can last for anywhere from seven to 10 days. So when I shoot ozone into that bladder, I got a bunch of lipid peroxides coating the epithelium of that bladder that are going to be hanging out there for somewhere between seven and 10 days. And it's those lipid peroxides that do all the magic we're going to be talking about. So I want you to understand basically how it works. You got to have oxygen. You got to have an ozone generator there in the order of say, you can get a real nice one for 2500 bucks, and then, and then, once you get that, that's it. You just turn the knob, push the button, the gas runs through the converter box. Out the other end comes a mixture of oxygen and ozone. Typically, the concentrations we use are such that the gas that comes out the other end is going to be in the order of 97 to 98% oxygen and two to 3% ozone. And it's that two to 3% ozone that does the magic. It's going to get into the tissues, grab an electron, and off it goes. Now there's all kinds of interesting things that happen when you start moving electrons around, and if you'll stop and think about it, that's what life is about. Life is about electron movement. Everything that happens. I mean literally, 100% of everything that happens in the human body, from the generation of energy to the generation of proteins, everything that happens is 100% dependent on adequate electron movement. And that's one of the reasons, if you can just remember, that you can start to think, Oh, my goodness, everything in the human body is dependent on electron movement. And he's got some kind of substance that's going to start moving electrons. You can start to think, yeah, maybe this stuff would be a pretty good idea. And indeed, it is, in many clinical situations. And in fact, when you look at disease, and particularly when you look at chronic degenerative disease, the kind of the hallmark, from a physical standpoint, is a lack of electron movement. That's what causes disease as when you're young, you have really good electron movement. As you get older, that starts to slow down. Now most people are not going to notice this till they're like 55 years old. Get to be about 55 and the electron movement will have slowed down to the point where you're starting to notice it. You know, you can go on a hike that you used to hike 1020, years ago, and you can still make the hike, but it's a little bit more of an effort and and so that's an example that we all know and realize. But here's the point, it starts earlier than that. It actually starts in your 20s and and you normal people will not notice that. But athletes will very high level type athletes will will tell you, you know when, when I was 35 I could do this thing much when I was 25 I could do this thing much better than I can now at the old age of 35 but you and I, and you know people that aren't at that level of athleticism, we're not going to notice this until later, but it happens, and as it happens, it sets the stage for disease. So you can talk to your patients, and you know when they ask you, well, why did I get sick, or how did I get sick, or you can say, from a lack of electron movement. And so we're going to do something about your electron movement. And in fact, all the therapies that we do that work, all of them, they work because they increase and improve on electron movement. Now there's two ways to do this. One, you can administer a substance that takes electrons like like an oxidant does, like ozone does, or you could administer a substance that gives electrons

Speaker 3  31:32
like Melvin was just talking about the carotenoids they give electrons. Vitamin C gives electrons. So there's a lot of stuff that we take in our diet that gives electrons. There's other things that we can use to take electrons, and between those two, we got an electron movement and and that's what makes all this stuff work. One of my interests has always been mitochondrial function. And I started looking into this back in the mid 90s, and was so intrigued by the fact that all diseases, all the degenerative diseases, anyhow, are characterized by poor mitochondrial function, all of them, 100% and and so I thought, You know what? I'm going to set about and try and figure out something that can measure mitochondrial and function, because if that's so darn important, why don't why aren't we measuring it in people? So that's what I did, and and Bill just kind of mentioned the patent that I have on that. But it's very simple device that uses that checks how much oxygen a body consumes relative to the amount of carbon dioxide it produces. And this tells me about electron movement in mitochondria, well, it tells me about general electron movement and in person, because the greater the ratio is of those two molecules, the more electron movement is going on, the more efficient it is. And so this is, this is a stimulus to mitochondria, because what a mitochondria do between complex one and as it finally ends up in complex four, and then, and then reintroduces the hydrogen ion back in through complex five to generate energy. That's all involves electron movement. You're moving electrons. That's what all that's about. And it's work, and it works with an oxidant. The oxidant, in this case, is going to be something called NAD. And then, to give you an idea of how important having adequate electron movement in your cells is, when you look at the ratio in the cell, in the actual in the intracellular space, not in the mitochondria, but in the extra in the area of the of the cell, where the mitochondria are not you know, where all the action happens, the ribosomes and endothelium, reticulum and all that stuff is when you look at that, the ratio of NAD to NADH is a whopping 700 to one, 700 molecules. Of an oxidant to one molecule of a reductant. That'll tell you how important. Now, this is optimal, okay, but that'll tell you how important it is to have the proper ratio of oxidants to antioxidants. And so we're going to then, knowing that you kind of go through some some examples of of how you can use ozone. Let me preface this first of all by saying that Paracelsus, 400 years ago, taught us all a very, very important lesson that homeopaths know, but not a heck of a lot other people know, and that is that there is no such thing as a poison. The poison is not defined by the substance. The poison is defined by the dose. So, yeah, there's a bad dose of vitamin C, there's a bad dose of carotenoids, there's a bad dose of penicillin, and there clearly is a bad dose of ozone. So, so, but everything, including, you know, Scorpion venom, rattlesnake venom, etc, etc, in the right dose mercury. For example, homeopathy is mercury as a remedy, but it's a very, very small dose of mercury. So every the poison of any substances in the dose. So when somebody says, You know what, ozone is a poison, we know that. We went to PubMed and there was 5000 articles and how poison it is for your lungs. How good can it be for you? One of the first things, one of the first answers I come back with is, especially if I'm talking to a doctor, and I say, wait, no, wait a second, you're telling me that I should be using ozone because it's toxic. And the guy said, yeah, and I'll say, Okay, since when do you use a drug that's not potentially toxic? And of course, all the drugs we use are potentially toxic. It's the dose that matters. So fortunately, the history of ozone is is just absolutely fascinating. Tesla was involved in it, and some of the great, great minds down through all the last 120 years were involved in in ozone therapy. In fact, Tesla, in 1904 was the developer, the first company that actually made ozone generators for medical purposes. But ozone itself goes back to the late 1800s in this United States, and it's been used ever since then. So it's, it's not, it's not a new guy on the block. But my point is that through all that time, we've had plenty of time to figure out the exact right those generators.

Unknown Speaker  37:19
1904 Tesla,

Speaker 3  37:23
yeah. So we've figured out all the right the right doses that we can use. So that's all established in the literature we know about that. And of course, we teach that in courses and such like that. And so that's that's just an important thing to remember, that this whole thing is about dose. And so there's lots of different one of the wonderful things about ozone is that it can be administered in all kinds of ways. The other thing about it is it can be used in virtually every clinical case you see. And I'm going to talk specifically about some clinical cases here, but, but let me put to you this way, no matter what what a doctor does, if he's a cardiologist or if he's an herbologist or if he's a general practitioner or whatever the heck, Our special specialty would be, if that doctor or practitioner adds ozone therapy to what he's already doing, results are going to be big time better, because just remember, all these things that we give to patients, whether they're medications or herbs or whatever it is we're busy doing, if they're not moving electrons effectively, nothing's going to happen. And so ozone potentiates everything else you do. Particularly, we're going to talk specifically about oncology. I'm going to talk about some allergies and a bunch of other stuff. But the sort of the bottom line is, for you all, you guys are listening to me right now. If you aren't using ozone in your practice right now, you're missing out. Your patients are missing out. You're missing out. You might be getting great results, and I hope you are. Probably are with what you do already, they get a lot better when you add ozone therapy in there. It's not quite a slam dunk, but it's about as close to one that I've ever seen in medicine, and it's so easy to use. I will tell you that, you know, but what? By the way, it just occurred to me, I've saved some time here for us to do any Q, amp, A, if you have any specific questions about this, but, but I'm going to go through some of these, some of these cases, and show you about this. But no, again, the point is, ozone is so you can apply it in so many ways. So I it's a gas. Now it's a gas, okay, it's not liquid. I can take that gas. I can shoot into your cerebral spinal fluid. I can take that I've done it. I can take that gas, and I can shoot it into any part of your body that could be your knees, your hips, your elbows, your fingers. I haven't shot it in an eyeball yet, and I haven't shot into the brain yet, but I pretty much shot it every other place dentists use it. We shoot it around the gums. We shoot it into teeth. You can drill holes in teeth. You can get rid of cavitations. You can do all kinds of interesting things with it. You can also put you can swallow it. So you can take Ozone Water. You can take water bubble ozone gas through that water for a period of time, and you can trap the gas in the water in much the same way as carbon dioxide is trapped in a soda pop. And so you drink that water, you're literally drinking gas. So you can get the gas in your stomach. You can get the gas in your duodenum. I told you, we can shoot it in a bladder. We can shoot it in the vagina. We can shoot it easily into a colon. So we do a lot of colon treatments, and you can sort of start to imagine, well, you know, what would it be good for in the colon? It's going to be very good for any kind of liver problem. If you got a liver problem with its fatty liver, whether it's cirrhosis, whether it's hepatitis, it's a knockout punch for hepatitis, but you can put ozone gas right into the rectum, and it instantaneously goes right into the liver. And can can do its thing right in the liver. Obviously, can also treat bowel problems. You can put ozone on the skin. So Tesla was the first fellow that, back in the very early 1900s decided, You know what, I'm going to bubble ozone through olive oil. And it turns out that when you do that, the ozone can get trapped. The ozone, the o3 molecule, gets trapped in the olive oil in kind of an ionic, kind of chemical formation, and and it can stay in that olive oil for a long time, especially if you keep it refrigerated. And he and he'll take that olive oil and you can put it topically on skin, if you've got fungal infections, almost any ailment in the skin, from insects to impetigo, anything like that. Insect bites any, any of those things. It's very it's very good for the skin to put ozone on topically, we have a trick where you can take, you know, if you have a foot, for example, and it's got a very varicose ulcer on it, or say it's got a diabetic ulcer on it, and it's and it's a failure to heal. Type of situation, you can take that foot, put it into a plastic bag, and pump ozone gas into the plastic bag, and the gas is topically going to work on the wound, and it will do two things. Number one, as it we put in a lot of ozone, very high concentration. Initially, this is going to this is going to move electrons so fast that it would kill any bug. So that's something to remember. When you get ozone gas topically, actually comes into contact with a bug, any virus, any bacteria, any mold, any fungus that it comes into contact with gas, it will rip that electron off so fast you've just killed that organism, period. End of story. There's no resistance. There's no way any germ can find a resistance to ozone gas. And so if you've got a really bad infection in a bladder and you can't get rid of it, and I've seen a couple of these kind of recently, you shoot ozone gas in there, and that'll take care of it. So you can also just move covid patients into ozone shapers. Yeah. So, so I'm going to talk to you a little bit about ozone, because about, about, oh, we can get into covid a little bit. But yeah, I am definitely talking about viruses, because that's one of, one of the things that really sets it apart. In as much as, as far as I know, there is no treatment out there that is 100% for killing every virus there is ozone. Is that treatment? I don't know of any other treatment. Now, you can combine it with all kinds of stuff. And, you know, Lord knows we do that. You can combine it with ultraviolet light, you can combine it with methylene blue. You combine it with vitamin C. And that's, that's interesting. Just combining with vitamin C, we can talk a little bit about that. But again, vitamin C gives the electron. Ozone takes the electron, electron movement. You're you're backing up and you're ramming up your electron movement. So let's see. I was just talking about applications. We can put it on the skin, you can inject it underneath the skin, you can put it in the blood. And that's probably the most common way we think of ozone we you know, if you came to my clinic, you'd see people getting ozone therapy in their blood all day long. Basically, the way you do that is quite simple. You draw, draw some blood out of the patient, and typically we're talking about like 200 CC, something in that order. And then you put gas in the bottle or the bag with the blood. You shake it around just a little bit. And of course, the ozone instantaneously reacts with the membranes of the white and red blood cells that are in the blood and is instantaneously gone. And instead, now you have these red and white blood cells that are activated by moving their electrons around, and then you re infuse those back into the person. Those activated red and white blood cells circulate through the entire body, cross the blood brain barrier, and start doing all the things that we can talk about, which are basically number one, when these peroxides get into the cells, they will oxidize NADH back to NAD and which is a big time mitochondrial resuscitate resuscitation treatment. So anybody that's old whose mitochondria aren't working quite as well as they used to when he was 30, you can start resuscitating those mitochondria by doing this blood treatment. Another thing that we know about is that, and all this is published, by the way, and in fact, if you go to the academy website, which is a A O T, American Academy of ozone therapy, A O t.us,

Speaker 3  46:57
if you click on the library tab in there, you can go in and you can search something like 4200 various published scientific papers on ozone therapy, and you can search you could plug in impetigo you could plug in pneumonitis, you could plug in retinitis pigmentosa, whatever the heck you wanted to do, because Somebody has published something about all those kinds of conditions, and you can read a little bit about it and find out what they did and see if you can dredge up a protocol that'll work well for you. Once again, let me just say, and just occurs to me, no matter what you're doing, you know you don't have to change anything you're doing. Let's, let's say you're a strict cardiologist listening to me, and you just do what the cardiologists all do. That's fine. Just throw some ozone therapy in there, because what we know about ozone therapy is it stimulates endothelial cells to produce nitric oxide. It also stimulates endothelial cells to produce heme oxygen, Ace one, both of these things are critical for circulation and the prevention of and treatment for circulatory diseases. The other thing that ozone will do is it will stimulate the NRF two system. It's a very powerful stimulator of NRF two, which is the system that produces all the antioxidants. So I'll tell you a story. Once in fact, I published a paper on this way back in the late 90s. I had four, four patients I was treating, and they all had pretty advanced age. And at that point in my career, you know, I knew that ozone killed killed viruses. So I thought, you know, AIDS is caused by a virus. I no longer believe that, by the way. But anyhow, I thought at the time, AIDS is caused by a virus. I've got this thing over here that can kill viruses. Maybe that will work. So I started treating these four advanced age patients with his treatment. And part of the reason I did is because carpendale, at that point, who worked it, was a doctor, the physio physiatrist at one of the VA hospitals in San Francisco, had published a paper where he took the serum of patients with AIDS, and he bubbled ozone gas through that serum. Then he took that serum. Now, what's what's in that serum? Now, it's a bunch of peroxides, right? Okay, there's no ozone in there. It's bunch of peroxides, and those peroxides, remember, can hang around for 710, days. He took that serum and then put it on culture plates, where he was culturing aids, and 100% killed them all. So I thought to myself, well, wow. You know, if this is this condition is caused by a virus, I bet if I just pump a lot of ozone into these guys, I'm going to make all these peroxides, and maybe we'll cure them. So I gave them very intensive ozone therapy. Now here's what you want to know about these four men, and all this is published, by the way, but every one of them were taking massive doses of antioxidants, massive doses. We're talking 4050, grams of vitamin C a day orally. We're talking 456, million units of beta carotene. And we're talking, you know, let's see 2400 units of vitamin E and so forth and so on. Now they're doing that because at the time, we all knew that AIDS was characterized by extreme oxidant stress in the bloodstream. So So I had a device that measured the amount of oxidant stress in the bloodstream. So imagine this. So these guys come in and they're on these massive doses of antioxidants. I'm testing the oxidation of their blood, and they're oxidized like hell. They're not reduced at all. These antioxidants aren't doing squat for these guys. So then I go ahead and for seven straight days, I give them fairly stiff doses of ozone. Guess what happens to the oxidative potential in their blood on day seven. You will see this a lot in the literature on on day seven, stuff starts to happen on day seven. All of a sudden the oxidant stress goes away. Now, figure, go figure, folks, a guy is in oxidant stress. He takes antioxidants. They don't do squat. I give him an oxidant and he gets better. Go figure what is going on? What's going on is that ozone is a dramatic stimulant for the NRF, two system, which produces all the antioxidant enzymes. And those antioxidants don't work unless they work on antioxidant enzymes. And these guys had no oxygen and antioxidant enzymes, and that's why, all of a sudden things started to get better. So it dramatically improves the endothelium. It dramatically improves the NRF two system. So all the all the antioxidant enzymes, I have never seen anything that will produce antioxidant enzymes, at least that's published anywhere near as well as ozone therapy will. Now this is applicable to every patient we see. There's nobody that you're going to see for any chronic disease that isn't in a state of oxidant stress. Otherwise they wouldn't have the disease. So you can treat that instantaneously with ozone therapy. So you can see that there's a strong rationale for every single patient you see with any chronic or degenerative disease, every single one getting treated by ozone, and if you approach it that way, what you'll find is that your results are just tons better than they would have been if you hadn't been adding this molecule into into your patient system. Another thing that ozone has done, and I also published a paper on this one, is that it stimulates the th one part of the immune system. And I don't want to go into this in great detail, which I do in my seminars, but I'm not going to do this right now, because it gets a little complex. But let me just say that all the chronic infections that we see, whether it's an Epstein bar, a Coxsackie, whether it's long covid or long Epstein Barr or whatever the heck it is, all of these chronic viral infections have nothing to do with the virus itself. The reason that you get infected with a virus and it turns into a chronic infection is not because of the virus, okay? It's because your immune system is not able to contain the replication of that virus. You have to maintain you have to stop the replication of the virus, the th one system is the part of the system that does that. Ozone is a potent stimulant of the th one system, and so for all your chronic infections. Now, I believe that every single chronic disease we deal with, from cardiovascular to cancer to autoimmune disease, every single one is a big part of that disease, if not the central part of that disease is a chronic viral infection that is not able to be contained because the patient doesn't have an adequate th one system. Now when you look at what other things stimulate th one system, this is the stuff you already know about. So vitamin D, potent stimulator of th, one melatonin, potent stimulator. Th, one, interesting fish oils, potent stimulator. Th, one, Echinacea, potent all the, all of the, the the mushroom, the chinese mushrooms, from shitake to my talk, etc. All of them are potent th one system stimulants. Cannabis is a th one stimulus. Quercetin is a th one stimulus. So these are all the things that we know can be very helpful for chronic viral infections. But ozone, it is the king of all of them, it is going to potently stimulate the th one system, and essentially is, is, is key to curing so many of these diseases that are either one thought to be incurable and aren't really or just really tough to Cure

Speaker 3  55:59
because of this, these effects, is the antioxidant effects, the circulatory effects, the effects on the mitochondria, and now we're talking about the effects on the immune system. And okay, so there's one other thing I want to talk about, that ozone is a potent and that is, it gets rid of pain so many, many years ago. And I learned this treatment back in Germany, back in the mid 80s and and then I brought it over to the US, and, you know, taught a lot of the doctors how to do it and such that. But one of the things that I started learning about when I started treating ozone is, wait a second, it's really good for painful Knees And Joints. And I threw a series of experiments, which I won't go through but, but I found out that if I take some ozone gas and let's say you've got a degenerative knee, and it hurts like heck, and I shoot the gas into the knee, the pain goes away, and you're walking around as though there wasn't a problem. Now, I thought I'm actually fixing the knee. Somehow the ozone is regenerating the cartilage or repairing the damage that's in there, or whatever it's doing, and that's why the patient doesn't have pain. What I subsequently learned was ozone can regenerate a knee, because it moves the electrons in the cartilage in there, but, but it also does something else. It literally takes away pain. And what got me to really think this through was and I was just in my head for years and years, I just been noticing the knees get better, the hips get better the whatever. I thought it was because of the regenerative aspects of ozone, but turns out it's something else. Ozone literally gets rid of pain now, so I'm treating a woman's rotator cuff and on the way out, her husband comes in with her. And on the way out, the husband says, You know what? Her rotator kept getting so much better. And I wonder if you can help me. I got this pain here. And he was pointing to the dorsum of his hand. And he said, you know, back some, I think was 1012, years ago, he was wrenching on some kind of car engine, and the wrench slipped, and his hand went back, and the dorsum of his hand just smacked real hard in some piece of metal. And he said, you know, this has hurt me ever since then, and I've had X rays, and I've seen orthopedists and such, and nobody knows what the heck's going on. It just hurts. And he says, Every time I turn the doorknob or I lift something, my tool case, or whatever, it hurts me. And I wonder if you can help me. So I said, where it hurt? He points to it right there. It says, hurts right there. So I'm poking on it, and it's sure enough, it's tender, hurts. So I all I did is pick up a little skin, take a five cc syringe full of hose. Now that's not typically going to be the result you get with this. It's not that fast, but that thing taught me a lesson. And what the lesson was, I

Speaker 3  59:14
immediately started calling off pain doctors. I want to find out what's going on. How could that possibly do that? And I asked all these pain doctors, What? What? What causes pain? And interestingly enough, every single one of them says, we don't know. Nobody knows what's causing pain. And then I was kind of reflected on that. Said, Yeah, you guys don't know, because all you ever do is cover it up with drugs or, you know, electrical appliances, or whatever heck you're doing. Soon as you take the drug of the electrical pints away, the pain is right back again. So you're not really curing the pain and and, but I knew that if I inject ozone and oxygen into an area that's painful, the pain goes away. Ergo, pain is caused by a lack of electron movement, and we can now prove this. So by putting electron movers now, by the way, you can also inject ascorbic acid into areas, and we are now working with oxidized ascorbic acid into joints and such, and that also moves the electrons. So you can combine these guys together to get better electron movement. But that's what takes away pain. So one of the most fun things, if ozone only did one thing, and that was take away pain, you just got yourself a super valuable treatment. And I have so much fun in my office, because there's, I don't know about you guys, but if I if I cure somebody with PMS, or if I cure somebody with cardiovascular problem or coronary artery disease or whatever, I think that's wonderful, and I'm amazed, and it's all great and everything, but nothing so much fun as taking a person who has suffered in pain for years and years, and bang, it's gone. It's gone. If it's neck pain, if it's back pain, if it's post surgical pain, if it's diabetic pain, if it's peripheral neuropathy, whatever the heck is the source of the pain, I can get rid of the pain, even if I can't fix the problem. So if I have somebody that's got an erector set in their lower back, then they've had three or four surgeries and their back is killing them. There's no way in the world I can fix that back, but I can take away the pain. So it's pretty remarkable. So at this point, let me see how I'm doing here. I got about 1015, more minutes, and so let me just I'm going to run through the list real quick, like and I can keep going for a little bit longer. There may be some questions, so I want to leave a little time for questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:57
So I think been here, and usually, Dr Nario has someone online. So unless you're in a hurry, Frank, you were usually here, you know, for a little while.

Speaker 3  1:02:07
Okay, yeah, I'm not, I'm not in any hurry. I just, you know, want to get the word out to everybody that's that's listening. I think it was Melvin that said something about covid. And, you know, I don't I, you know, in my seminar, I go through this in some detail, but a guy named franzini in Italy published a paper. And sort of think of it this way, the details on the paper were, he took 50 men and women, all of them over the age of 75 all of them with quite a few comorbidities. All of them on pulmonary assistance with their infected with covid, bad, bad blood gasses, higher respiratory rates, etc, etc. Really bad cases, okay, out of those 50 cases, he treated them all with standard of care, which at that point in time, I think, was steroids and fluids and, you know, oxygen assistance, respiratory assistance. And out of that group of 52, people died. Now interestingly, he additionally gave him ozone, okay, but two people died in that group. Now, if you compare that to the statistics here, in the US, 85% of people died. In this case, we're talking 4% of people. So you could actually, you know, could come to the conclusion, you know, had this government, had our medical system known about ozone therapy, a lot of people would have been saved. I can tell you personally during the whole covid thing. I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I do know that I took in covid patients all day long. I, you know, a lot of times the emergency rooms wouldn't touch these guys. I'd say, go home and wait until you need an ambulance, then come back. We took covid all the time. I could tell you some great stories. The one that comes to mind, first of all, is somebody that walked in who I had known. It was a patient of mine. She was obese. Her she was diabetic. Her a 1c was 12. Now, part of that would have been the covid, but was your sugar was way out of control. She had had past history of stents and cardiovascular disease, so she she's not your healthiest person. She was on blood pressure medicine, so forth, so on. She's got a respiratory rate of 34 she's got an oh two set of 82 and you'd think that woman doesn't stand a chance. That's that's not going to work for her. 50 grams of vitamin C in her. In these cases, I used a lot of ozone. So we were talking like 40 milligrams of ozone into the blood. I think we used a half a million units of im vitamin D, and we did that for two, three days in a row, until they were they were out of danger. And this woman was out of danger in about three days, went home and then just put her on the rest of stuff, the melatonin and the oral vitamin D and such, and she was just fine. I have never, ever had a viral case of anything that did not immediately respond to ozone therapy. And no, Bs just hasn't happened yet. Now I have mostly when people come to see me with a viral ailment, I don't waste any time trying to test whether it's influenza A or Hantavirus or whatever the heck it is, but I have had a lot of patients come in that you know had Hantavirus or West Nile virus or bird flu virus, or whatever the heck virus it is. And so I know that they, you know, had some cultures positive for that. Every single one of them healed. There's no failures. I've had a couple of cases with active meningitis, viral meningitis, stiff necks, vomiting. In those cases, we pretty much kept them in the clinic all day, giving them ozone all day long, along with some vitamin C, and never lost a patient. Never had to send anybody to a hospital. A couple of our colleagues went down to Sierra Leone during the middle of the Ebola crisis down there, and were administering ozone to their patients and published, I think, two papers on the fact they were knocking out Ebola. I don't think it's possible for any virus to survive ozone therapy, especially when you mix it. I love mixing with methylene blue and vitamin C. It's just such a slam dunk. And it's such a shame for me to think that people are in hospitals either dying or suffering in one way or another, when if they just came to my clinic for two or three days in a row, spend about two hours in there getting these treatments, they'd be out of the woods. So I want to impress upon you about viruses. How to here's a good story. This just recently, on my mind, I got a patient that squamous cell sarcoma of the jaw went and had a surgery cut about half her face. And so she's like 78 years actually, I think she's early 80s. Anyhow, not healthy, not in great shape, and no money, that kind of person, she, she, she calls me up, and she says, I got this pain in my side, and it's really weird, and I have no idea why I got the pain. So I'm thinking, I'm thinking shingles. I said, Well, you come on in. So I took a look at her. I couldn't figure out why she should have that pain, so I'm thinking, just shingles. And so I gave her a large dose of ozone therapy, sent her home, said, I want you to come back tomorrow. She comes back tomorrow, next day, and sure enough, we got little spots showing up now. So now I know it shingles. Give her a second dose. She comes back a third day. Give her a third dose. Shingles gone in the story, knockout punch. So I do want to impress upon everybody listening that this is incredibly I had a guy call me from Texas, and he says they did a rotator cuff surgery. This is bacteria now. Did a rotator cuff surgery on my shoulder. It got infected. They put me on IV antibiotics, went back in and do two shoulder surgery revisions. It was still infected. At this point, he had cellulitis down his whole right arm, his entire shoulder, down his whole right arm was cellulitis. Had a fever, sicker in hell called me up and said, I they want to amputate my entire shoulder and arm. Everything's going I said, Okay, come down here. I don't know what I can do, but let's try it out. Now. We kept him on his antibiotics, and you might ask, well, why'd you keep on the antibiotics and we're working? I said, because it works when you put ozone with it, all of a sudden, ozone potentiates everything. So yeah, this is a guy who really went to town. I injected ozone into his shoulder every day. I did subcutaneous injections, all of them down his arm. We gave ozone treatments in his blood, continued him on his IV antibiotics. And guess what, folks, he's still got an arm, still got a shoulder, and he's 100% okay. These, of course, I'm telling you my miracle cases, but they do, they do make the point that that this stuff is for real and really can potentiate any other therapy that you're doing, whether it's antibiotics or chelation therapy or homeopathy or whatever your deal is. So that's viruses and bacteria, autoimmune diseases in my in my viewpoint, or 100% caused by viruses. We knock out the virus we can and which we can do with ozone therapy. And of course, I use all the other stuff many of you are already using. It's not that this is a thing in isolation. It potentiates everything. But not too often. Is ozone a standalone treatment. It's just a potentiating treatment that can really make a big difference. So an autoimmune diseases wide application, cardiovascular disease, coronary artery disease, burgers disease, any kind of cardiovascular disease. Slam Dunk, slam dunk. There's absolutely no reason out there for anybody to be dying of heart disease when also, if ozone therapy were available to them, just wouldn't happen. In terms of cancer really potentiates chemotherapy, and at the same time, it's potentiating the chemotherapy effects and decreasing the chance of resistance from that chemotherapy. At the same time, what's it doing to all the healthy cells? It's upregulating their NRF, two systems so they don't have symptoms. So my patients that are out getting chemotherapy, if I give them ozone therapy at the same time, they don't they have much better result.

Speaker 3  1:11:23
Uh, here's another story. Guy goes to the VA, and they have much better result. And also they don't get sick. So got so patient might have squamous cell sarcoma. His name is Fred. I remember him vividly. Quite the character. He was like 84 ish, something like that, squamous cell carcinoma of his tonsils. He goes to the VA. The VA guy says, well, we got shoot radiation in there, which is a really good treatment for squamous cell he says, The problem is, you might lose your teeth. You might not be able to swallow anymore, because we're going to shoot your esophagus, you'll definitely lose all your saliva, and so there could be a lot of collateral damage, but that's the only choice he got, buddy. So he comes in to see me. Says, Well, what do you think you got something for me? I said, No, you got to get the radiation. I can't kill that squamous cell. So, so he says, So, I said, but what we will do is I'll give you ozone therapy and few other odds and ends, of course, and that'll protect you from the collateral damage. So he goes and he goes back and he sees his oncologist. He says, Okay, let's do it. And he says, And and he says, I'm not worried about it now, because Shallenberger says he can give me vitamin C and ozone therapy and I'm not going to have any collateral damage. And the oncologist says, Well, if he's going to do that, I'm not going to treat you. She goes, Just give me a waste of time. Because you know oncologists, if you know, if you do anything at all, of course it's going to it's going to make their work no good. So he comes back to me, says, Well, what should I do? And I told him, Look, just, just tell him. Lie to the guy. Tell him that you know that you decided to just do what he has to say and and you're not going to get these treatments. But of course, he did so. So six months goes by. The oncologist calls him in and says, Fred, you know your results have been just remarkable. Your cancer is gone and literally, he was cured. Your cancer is gone and you can swallow. You've never had any problems swallowing. Your saliva has completely come back and you didn't lose any teeth. I says, I'm amazed at how well you've done. So what I'd like you to do is to speak to our group of prospective patients and tell them what a great job we do. And Fred told the guy said, Well, I'll tell you that. But you know why? Is because I was getting ozone therapy and vitamin C therapy from Shallenberger the whole time. I didn't tell you about that, but that's what was going on. That's why I did so well. And the oncologist answer, as you can guess, was, well, maybe you better not talk to my group, then true story. So it's remarkable for cancer, if you're treating patients that are getting on, you know, chemotherapy or radiation therapy, any place man, you ought to really it's kind of a sort of malpractice not to give them ozone therapy and vitamin C therapy at the same time. You just make their lives a heck of a lot better, and the results would be better. I talked to you about pain, and the last thing is diabetes, if you have patients with diabetic complications, whether it's, you know, retinal issues, blood sugar issues, fatty liver issues, peripheral neuropathy issues, ah, it's really good for chronic renal disease, so it'll pull you, pull you right out. I have one patient, I've taken off dialysis most of the time. I can't get them off dialysis, but I can stop the complications, and if I get them before their EGFR gets down below 20, bang, it'll be normal after about four or five months of ozone therapy. And once again, I want to emphasize doing everything else you guys already do. We talked to them about diet and stress and sleep and, you know, all that stuff. But this is just a potentiator that will make everything that I already know that works for patients, it just makes it work a lot better. And so I think that's my introduction to you guys. And I'm wondering if you have any questions you want to lay on me, cases or anything like that, we can talk about that.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:42
We have a ton of stuff in the in the chat. Question there, okay, first off, Dr Barrett says my malpractice says it isn't safe. Is there any evidence I can give them show them that it is safe.

Speaker 3  1:15:58
There's a ton of evidence it's obviously safe and and so there her malpractice insurance, for whatever reason, does not want to get involved with this. The FDA had put out a statement, and I could talk a little bit about what a ridiculous statement this is because the statement was that there's, quote, no medical use for ozone therapy. That's the That's it. Quote, okay, now this was, this was in a statement they were doing to talk about inhaling ozone, so in the environmental inhalation of ozone, which, course, is not good. Ozone is good in every part of the body, but you can't inhale it. Your lungs have no protection against ozone. Why is that? Because you're taking an oxygen all day long, and if your lungs had protection against oxygen, you'd be in trouble. So no, the lungs have no no clearance for that. So in the middle of this little article that the FDA put out about how you need to stay away from ambient ozone, inhaling ambient ozone, they managed to put in this little one sentence that says there is no medical use for ozone, and then they went on to talk about environmental exposures. So that's where that probably comes from. That is just not true. Now, one thing that you could do, I don't think this will work for you, but you could do it because insurance companies are pretty hard to deal with, anyhow, and that is, you can go to the American Academy website, you can download over four, I think there's like 440, 300 citations attesting to its safety and clinical applications. And you can they get a pile, a 10 inch pile, of papers, and go mail that to your insurance company and say, read these papers and tell me there's no use for ozone. And of course, they won't read the papers. They won't look at it because, from an actuarial standpoint, they're not going to make any money on it. As we all know, insurance companies are all about how to make money. That's the bottom the bottom line with that, having said that, there are several insurance companies that will ensure the use of ozone so you can get the coverage on that. I personally have never gotten any coverage on ozone. Why? Because it never hurts anybody. It's the safest thing you'll ever use. I don't need to have insurance coverage. I know the doses to use. I know how to apply it. I've been doing it ever since the mid 80s. I've never, ever, ever had one problem with it. I shoot it into peritoneal cavities. I shoot it into pelvic cavities. I do all this kind of stuff. Never had a problem with it. So I don't really think that you need ozone for that particular coverage. Just give the patient your usual informed consent.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:56
You have an informed consent for that sort of official from the your academy?

Speaker 3  1:19:03
It's not an official one from the Academy. Academy doesn't issue informed consent because that's that's a liability for us. You know, you got to get your own informed consent from your own lawyer, but, but, but I have my own informed consents on damn near everything. I must have, like 30 informed consents. If you come into my office, you're going to hate me because you're going to have to sign a book full of papers. But you know, I think we all know

Bill Clearfield  1:19:27
about that. Yeah, we all have the same thing. So, yeah, okay, stroke risk.

Speaker 3  1:19:33
Stroke risk. Interestingly, so when you give, when you give ozone therapy in the blood, you have to anticoagulate the blood. One way to do that is with heparin. For all of what we do, we use heparin. Another way to do that is with dextrose phosphated dextrose phosphate solutions. That's that's the kind they use in like test tubes to anticoagulate test tubes. You somebody's having a stroke, you don't want to give them heparin. So I would say no from an acute stroke, we don't do any ozone therapy. Now, once the stroke is over, and this is true for a heart, heart attacks, by the way, too. So mis any kind of cardiovascular issue in the acute phase. Do you do standard medicine once they get out of the acute phase and things have settled down, there's no reperfusion injury, anything like that. I'm talking about like a week later. Now you can come in. You can do ozone, and it will definitely help. Interestingly, though, this is something that's kind of so fascinating to me. Vitamin C cannot cross the blood brain barrier. It has to be oxidized into something called dehydroascorbate. So but once it's oxidized, it can get into the blood brain barrier through the glute one receptors. But standard vitamin C can, can't get it doesn't interact with glute one receptors. It has its own svct receptors. So, so vitamin C cannot get into the blood brain either a mitochondria, either, unless it's oxidized first. So what these guys did is they took people having hemorrhagic strokes, and they oxidized the vitamin C into dehydroascorbate and then administered that intravenously, and found that it stopped the hemorrhage if you've got it soon enough. So that's just a little bit of an aside on another interesting aspect of so we do that an awful lot now. In the clinic, I'll hang a bag of, say, 50 grams of vitamin C. I'll shoot about maybe 4040, milligrams of ozone therapy into the bag, shake the bag up. Now all the vitamin C is oxidized, and now we got a bag full of dehydroascorbate, not playing ascorbate, and run that into the patient, and I get more bang for my buck by doing that.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:10
I, I kind of took that question is, does the, what you call the bubbling, or the, you know, of the of the ozone or the oxygen molecules create a stroke risk,

Speaker 3  1:22:23
maybe, oh no, no, it's, it's not gonna again. This stuff is so safe you don't. The only thing that you might want to be concerned about is not overdosing them. So it's a dosage situation, and there are certain dosing parameters very similar to the dosing parameters we use in homeopathy, because it's kind of a homeopathic type of principle. You know, a large dose is a bad thing. You get the right small dose, it's a really good thing. But no, you're not going to see any complications at all, except if you got somebody with an acute cardiovascular event, you better wait till it calms down before you go in there and throw some

Speaker 2  1:23:05
oxygen stress at it. Frank, I think one of the concerns of the audience would be, is the actual injection ozone gas intravenously. So that's kind of like queasy in their eyes. But I think that's in relation to Dr Bill's question. I think that's one of the things that you definitely want to clarify, since you've encountered this in your clinical setup there. Yeah.

Speaker 3  1:23:27
So there are people that advocate, and they continue to advocate, and this goes actually way back to the 1930s when they first started this where you take a syringe full of ozone and oxygen, which is primarily oxygen now, and you just inject it directly into the vein. So what's happening is, if you just could have a syringe with just ozone, wouldn't be a problem, because the ozone would instantaneously be gone when they hit the bloodstream, but not not when you got oxygen. You got oxygen in there, you're going to form emboli. Those emboli going to go to the lungs. That could be problematic, depending on the situation with the lungs, and if they have a patent ductus, it can go through the patent ductus and send bubbles up into the brain and kill people, so that maybe that's what they're talking about. So so the Academy has taken a stance on this. Pretty much every international, in fact, I think every international ozone Association has taken a stance against the use of direct gas injections into veins. There's no point to it. It's dangerous. You can't even get much in there. It's not well tolerated. I have no idea why people still do this, but it's not good news. And nobody out there if you're doing this, stop, please stop and learn how to do ozone properly.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:56
Got a couple questions on the prostate. One, is it effective for the prostate? And two, what's the best, best method to get method to get ozone to

Speaker 3  1:25:04
the prostate? Ah, great question. Okay, so acupuncture. One. Acupuncture point number one is a spot midline in between the bottom of the scrotum and the anus just equally equidistant in there. You take a 25 gage inch and a half needle, and you can go straight in parallel to the floor. The man is in a pelvic position similar to if he was trying to deliver a baby, and he's holding this scrotum up. And you find that little point, and you take that needle, and I usually numb it up with a little ethyl chloride, but remarkably, it doesn't hurt, and you inject that inch and a half needle straight into it, parallel to the table. And now you're about an eighth of an inch or so from the prostate. You don't want to go into the prostate. I know some people that do this, but you're asking for problems if you do it. And in my experience, you don't need to go actually into the prostate. What you're going to do is, once that needle is in place, you're going to inject, I inject procaine in there. I love procaine for medicinal reasons. The other good news is that ozone gas when you inject into soft tissue, it hurts. So if you inject procaine in, first you get the membrane stabilizing effect of the procaine. Plus, when you inject the ozone gas in, doesn't hurt them. So I'll shoot some protein in, usually about three cc's, or 1% and then I'm going to take 20 cc's of ozone gas at a 20 gamma, so a concentration, and I'm going to inject that in, and that's going to surround the prostate and from the and what's it going to do on the outside of that prostate gland is going to form peroxides. Those peroxides will penetrate into the gland and will kill any bacteria in there. This is a slam dunk for prostatitis, for which there isn't a whole lot of slam dunks for and and you can use, I don't use it a lot for cancer, but if my other cancer therapies are not working, that I can rely on this. I had a guy come in once, and this is a good story. So this is, this will show you something. So this is, like, maybe two years ago. He walks and he says, I'm peeing blood. So sure enough, was Frank blood coming out of his bladder. I thought, okay, he's obviously got bladder cancer. So I sent him over again an ultrasound. They say, Oh yeah, he's got this big old four centimeter lesion in his bladder. I said, Oh my goodness. So I sent him over to the urologist. Urologist puts a scope in there and says, there's nothing in his bladder. This is his prostate. It's a gigantic prostate. It's like 150 gram prostate pushing into his bladder somehow caused all this bleeding. And so what we did is I started giving that treatment. I just mentioned amongst other things, but mostly that was it. And we did that twice a week. We must have done that for like three months. It gradually shrunk down to the point where this fella, I see him like almost every week or something else, but he no longer has a problem. Never had to have surgery. I was kind of amazed. Never had to have surgery. There's some question about whether he's not. He's got some cancer in there, but we don't know, because we haven't done a biopsy, because I don't like biopsies and but we did manage to shrink that prostate down. He's in good shape. It. I won't say it's a slam dunk, but I will tell you if you run into some tough prostate either BPH or prostatitis or prostate cancer, and you need a little help there. This is a simple, easy to do injection, completely safe. You're not going to bother anybody that, in all likelihood, is going to be pretty successful, especially when you combine them with other things.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:12
Great. How about uses a biofilm removal?

Speaker 3  1:29:17
Yeah. So I can't speak to that so much. It makes all the sense in the world that ozone would oxidize the biofilm, and indeed, now we use it very successfully for interstitial cystitis. Do a lot of bladder injections, a lot of problems with bladders that won't go away, either infections or especially interstitial cystitis. So we put catheter into the bladder, and we shoot ozone gas into the bladder and and we can get rid of interstitial cystitis. We can get rid of the worst case of interstitial cystitis you've ever seen probably 85 9% of the time by repeated injections ozone in there. And I'm pretty sure that the reason it works is because I'm knocking off the biofilm, that whatever, there's got to be a bug in there. Nobody can find the bug. Nobody can culture out anything on these IC cases. So I'm figuring it's got it because there's a biofilm, and we cure these cases. So I'm figuring it gets rid of the biofilm. In terms of biofilms in the GI tractor and knees, by the way, plenty of studies out there indicating that low back pain is caused by an infection. There's a bacterial infection, typically mycoplasma, in lower backs. And one of the reasons low backs don't get better is because of the damn infection. It's creating an inflammation and and a cytokine response in there, and the back won't go away. And of course, then it causes the arthritis. But again, you can shoot ozone gas into the back. We will shoot, we'll shoot massive amounts, maybe 240, cc's of gas to cover an entire lower back, and we'll kill the bugs. So that's part of the reason. And then, then it does the other thing, get rid of pain, but we'll kill the bugs, but, but there's probably biofilms down there. It's probably biofilms in the bat lower back that those bugs are hiding under. There was one case study published where they used a drug called baclovid. I think that was, yeah, baclovid, it's a broad spectrum antibiotic. And they gave, they gave a number of lung pay, a number of low back patients with Modic type two findings on the MRI and all herniated discs and gave them this antibiotic, and in six months, half of them were completely cured. The paint went away on a broad spectrum antibiotic. Now why didn't the other ones go away? I'm guessing it's because of a biofilm. So I think that the reason I can be successful, knees are the same way knees are, you know, infected by Nigeria, also infected by mycoplasma, and there's another one, some kind of strep, that they find in these knees. And so, you know, why? Why? Why aren't they, like, grossly infected because there's a biofilm. They're hiding under the biofilm. They're just colonizing, but they are creating inflammatory cytokines, and they're perpetuating the problem down there. So yeah, I do believe it gets rid of biofilms, but that's just my theory. It makes sense to me, but there's no evidence that I can show that it does eradicate biofilms.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:36
How about ozone and DMSO?

Speaker 3  1:32:39
You can put them together. I haven't used DMSO for a really, really long time. I think part of the reason was I didn't think was all that great, and it stinks up the office. Other than that, if you're a DMSO guy, and there's some really good things about the MSO. You can use DMSO with ozone. They work every bit as well. They potentiate each other in a way.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:07
What about chlorine chlorine dioxide?

Speaker 3  1:33:10
Ah, okay, so now chlorine dioxide, we're talking about another oxidant, and that's a good one, intravenous chlorine dioxide, oral chlorine dioxide, same way with hydrogen peroxide, intravenous hydroperoxide, oral hydrogen peroxide. All of these Oxidants are good in their own way. Ozone is infinitely better for two reasons. Number one, it can be used all over the place. You can inject it in places you couldn't inject hydrogen peroxide or chlorine dioxide. And two, it's a much stronger oxidant, and I think, I think it's just a lot more applicable than using those kinds of things, but they're very similar in and if you if you read about Chlorine Dioxide or hydro peroxide, you'll see that very similar cases pop up to the ones I've been talking about. In terms of what these things can do, because they're all electron movers, I just happen to think that ozone is the most studied, the most the one with the most scientific backing. Again, we're looking at somewhere between 4000 5000 published scientific papers on it. You're not going to find that in chlorine dioxide or hydro peroxide. I've used them both, by the way, and I believe, in the end, ozone is a much better way to go. But yeah, that can be real effective.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:39
All right, Steve says your vitamin C ozone protocol appears to be the opposite of the VC ici than it was in the past, in the opposite order.

Speaker 3  1:34:51
Well, okay, so that's interesting. So I'm going to be talking to that group in October, and I probably will get a few raised eyebrows. So because I'm going to be talking about and present evidence, and there's some evidence out there, Pinnacle evidence, and scientific evidence, a fair amount of it, that oxidized vitamin C works better than reduce vitamin C. So that that talks going to be out there. If you go into that conference, I expect to be a really good conference. And you'll you'll hear me wax and wane on how you should oxidize your vitamin C before you give it to somebody. Maybe, maybe you'll buy my theory. Maybe you won't buy my theory, but that's the way I use vitamin C. I typically like to oxidize it. Now it does seem like a contrary position. So you got, on the one hand, a reducing agent, you got an oxidizing agent. What we've known, and in fact, other doctors besides me, all throughout the world have known that if you use ozone therapy and then piggyback vitamin C therapy on it, the results are really good. And so we could never come to grips with why is that? So it seems like they would, you know, antidote each other, but they don't. And I think the reason is because we're oxidizing the vitamin C.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:19
Yeah, I'm going to be there too. I'm they gave Are you going to they gave me, they gave me the hormone

Speaker 3  1:36:24
talk. So you know, alright, man, that'd be good, good to see you

Bill Clearfield  1:36:27
there. It's the only thing I know. You know. I don't know any I know from

Unknown Speaker  1:36:31
I'm sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:32
Yeah, I had you had me the same thing. I did the same thing for you. So the compaction with ozone, I'm not sure what that means exactly. So that's just a statement. I don't know. And then the next statement is something about the glycocalyx. So

Speaker 3  1:36:51
glycocalyx, I can't really comment on it, for those that aren't, maybe familiar with glycocalyx. It coats all kinds of things, especially the endothelium. Is critical to cardiovascular function. You know, the glycocalyx gets destroyed by oxidant stress. So you figure, you just figure, I don't have any proof, but you'd figure if I'm going to expose the endothelium to the right amount of ozone or peroxides, I'm going to induce the right amount of oxidative stress to rev up the NRF two system, and then they're going to have plenty of antioxidant enzymes down there, and that would make the glycocalyx work better. Ozone stimulates nitric oxide. I believe nitric oxide has a positive effect on glycocalyx, but that's all I can say on that. You

Bill Clearfield  1:37:43
want to say something. Dr couch, I

Speaker 5  1:37:46
was just clearing my throat. I'm waiting till you get eventually, I'd like to ask if I could share something. But go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:53
Would you give Frank? Would you give ozone or M, a, H, at 20 gamma or 40 gamma on the day of high dose vitamin C 50 grams. If so, should you wait an hour before giving the vitamin C 50 grams?

Speaker 3  1:38:09
I'll tell you what I do, and I'll tell you what my rationale is. And this, a lot of this is just clinical observation. What seems to work better in different clinical situations, but I will give in the order of, say, a anywhere from a 12 milligram MH dose of ozone to maybe 120 milligram doses, a wide range there. So I can use really high doses of ozone if I want, but I'm going to give the mAh ozone, and then right after that, bang, and immediately after that, I'm going to be infusing in a sodium ascorbate at the tune of about 50 grams an hour. Now what's happening is, when I put the ozone in and I treat the blood, I'm now infusing the ozonated blood back into the system. When the ozonated blood goes in the system, it's going to create an oxidant stress in that blood we can measure, we measure this. So I know this happens. So now I'm taking vitamin C and I'm injecting into a pool of oxidant stress. What's going to happen is it's going to neutralize the oxidant stress and and in the context, is going to be producing dehydroascorbate, which is why I got so excited about well, why is this working? It's got to be working, least in my way of thinking, because the dehydroascorbate works. And so then I went started looking in the literature on what we know about dehydroascorbate, and it's remarkable. We know an awful lot of interesting physiological and scientific stuff about dehydroascorbate, but there's very little out there on the clinical use of it. So anyhow, that's what I think. All I can say is, from a clinicians perspective, if you give your 12 milligram mAh, or whatever milligram mah you give, and you give your MH, you can immediate. You have to wait just immediately after just throw in your start flowing in your vitamin C IV, but never before. If you put the vitamin C in before, now the vitamin C is in the bag of blood, and when you go to ozonate the blood, you're not going to be ozonating The peroxides. You'd be ozonated the vitamin C. So you it really does antidote the the ozone, if you use it before, but always after, but you can just immediately piggyback it and it'll work just fine.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:41
Dr dinario, you have any online questions?

Speaker 2  1:40:44
Yeah, so. Dr Frank, great presentation. One of the curiosities here, as you mentioned, about MH And the sodium ascorbate, is the, I guess, counter reaction of an antioxidant therapy versus an oxidant therapy. So you would hear protocols such as giving ozone through IV and then giving Myers cocktail. What are your thoughts on these negations in relation to that specific principle?

Speaker 3  1:41:13
Well, I don't think it negates it. I think I just say, in the case of vitamin C, it's not negating it. It's just changing the vitamin C to an oxidized version of vitamin C. That's all because you, when you you in the major auto you've got the blood in there, you've got your red blood cells, you've got your white blood cells. You're ozonating them. There's no vitamin C in there now. So now you've affected those white blood cells and those red blood cells. White blood cells are going to be producing all these cytokines. The red blood cells are going to be activated by the pentose phosphate shunt. They're going to be producing due to three DPG. And those those cells, they're okay. They're going to go back into your system. But what else is going to go back into the system? Along with those cells is a bunch of lipid peroxides. So now you're the whole system is oxidized, so now you're shooting in your vitamin C. And like I said, you the vitamin C interacts with those oxides, but they don't change the white cells or the red blood cells, is my point, but, but then you get d then you get dehydroascorbate, which, in my viewpoint, works better than ascorbate. And then, and then, if you use Myers after, I'm not aware that the Myers really is going to antidote or going to be oxidized by the peroxides in the ozone. So I don't I we use Myers all the time. In fact, my system is ozone, vitamin C, Myers,

Speaker 2  1:42:45
right? Yeah, because that's one of the theories that when you give an antioxidant therapy for today, do not give an oxidative therapy. But now I've seen the mix even you promoted that

Speaker 3  1:42:55
in it's all about movement of electrons. You know, you have to have an electron to move. And vitamin C is a, you know, all the antioxidants are big suppliers of electrons,

Speaker 2  1:43:07
right? And here's one curious question, maybe for me, you have mentioned before chelation, along with ozones, I say, I think you termed it as key zone. Is that correct? Yeah, yeah, they're asking about what is the principle behind it? And I mean in terms of, in terms of effectivity and your clinical experience, about that.

Speaker 3  1:43:33
Okay, so what the heck happened? So before I got into ozone, I learned about chelation way back in the 70s. So I was like, chelating everybody and and, you know, it just works great. Anybody that's done that knows that it works, fabulous. So then I come about learn about ozone, and I'm thinking, well, chelation does these interesting things. Now, of course, we're not too aware of what the heck it's doing. You know, it's going to pull iron out, it's going to change the ferric to ferrous ratio. It's going to pull calcium out, it's going to pull lead out, it's going to pull cadmium out. And you're putting a lot of magnesium with it. So you got a little vasodilator thing going on here and and I'm thinking, well, all those things sound very compatible with an oxidant therapy, something that stimulates mitochondrial function, that sounds compatible. So I thought, What the hell? Let's just try this. So basically, the procedure is, I do an MH and just piggyback to that chelation therapy. I call it key zone, but all it is is just two treatments, one after the other. I do believe that the ozone potentiates the chelation. The chelation potentiates the ozone. I think it's a nice, nice combination. So if I'm doing cardiovascular disease 100% of the time. That's what I'm doing.

Speaker 2  1:45:00
Right, right? Dan, that's something that's been out there. I've attended seminars, and you talk a lot about this, and kind of definitely pick some interest from all the practitioners out there. You mentioned about contraindications for ozone, mentioned about acute strokes, acute mis it sounds like it's a very safe therapy anything other than those as part of your contraindications.

Speaker 3  1:45:23
Contraindications, good point. Okay, so there are contraindications to ozone. One of them is, is a g6 PD deficiency. So if you have a g6 PD deficiency, you can create hemolysis. It could be kidney injuries, issues like that. So ideally you want to check the g6 PD level on your patient before you give them ozone therapy of almost any kind. I don't routinely check it for knees because I'm not using that much ozone, but if I'm doing a blood thing, I'm going to want a g6 PD. The other thing that I could say that if your g6 PD is below the lower end of the range, but it's not too far below it, you can give ozone anyway. You just got to cut way back on the dose, and what will happen is ozone. And this is published by the way, ozone stimulates the formation of g6 PD. So as long as you have something to start with, if you give small enough doses in the regular aliquots, you can rev up the g6 PD to the point we actually give them pretty decent dose most of the time, right? Other contraindic pregnancies, not a contraindication. Iron storage, disease is not a contraindication. Oh, you know what the contraindication is, acute cardiovascular incident, either a stroke or an MI, that's a contraindication. That maybe I think, oh yeah, alcohol toxicity. But I mean, how many drunk people come into your clinic? So that's not a big one

Speaker 2  1:47:04
to know. Hey, Burning Man. Here, if you don't know it,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:09
gotta be careful with Burning Man, I suppose, right.

Speaker 2  1:47:13
Well, it sounds like it's almost similar to any bio oxidative therapy, peroxide. Yeah, it's very similar. Yeah, right. So, and that's, and here's another clinical Pro that I've seen that I don't know if you've seen this, I've done g6 PD so many times on patients I have seen I thought it was only one test to define everyone, but I have repeated g6 PS, and I've seen some normal initially, and then they're not normal the next time around. So I thought it was always going to be a standard one time type of test. But is that something? Have you seen before?

Speaker 3  1:47:49
I don't check them that often. Melvin, oh, you just go for it. I just do it like once, right? Anyway, it was just like, No, I don't know Sure, sure.

Speaker 2  1:47:59
Yeah, okay, I guess this is really kind of like a good question to end the my list here is, what is the future of ozone therapy, as you see it being one of the experts in the field, and where is it going? How are integrative clinicians going to benefit from this?

Speaker 3  1:48:19
Boy, big question. I mean, you could ask this about like, 90% of everything we do, when is this going to get mainstream? Because we all know that, that so many of these things we do that's not mainstream are super helpful, really helpful. And you know, why doesn't everybody do this? You know, everybody asks this question, Why does everybody do this? So? So the system is motivated by money. We all know that that's what motivates that's why things move up, move down has to do with money. They make money, they move up. They don't make money, they move down, etc, etc. There's no money you're going to make off this. You're going to keep making your money off whatever you do. This is just potentiate what you do. But you don't make any money off this. You just do a better reason now maybe make some money. I do want to mention for everybody that's listening that I would love you guys to go to a website called oh three movie. It's the letter o, the numeral three, and the word movie. So this is a movie about ozone therapy. Ozone therapy, the only way I think this is could ever possibly get mainstreamed. And I'm not sure it can, and I'm not even hoping it gets mainstream necessarily. I just want everybody to have access to it. Right now, we only have a few 1000 doctors in the country doing it, so a lot of people don't have access to it. So, so what we're what we've been doing is, just recently, over this last year, we have worked with a Hollywood director and producer by the name of Luciano blota, who has won a bunch of different awards. You know, the cinematography type awards is a really amazing He's done a lot of amazing work. I mean, I didn't realize how much goes into making a movie till he was actually making a movie. So he came out and he spent about, oh, I want to say five, six days in my house for my clinic, doing a lot of filming. And he must have filmed, I'm going to say 40 hours worth of film, and he boiled that down to 10 minutes. So it's just an incredible amount of film and that, but that 10 minutes is really cool, really cool. Now, the reason he did that is he wanted to have a trailer to show people how good he was at doing what he does. Because the idea is, what if we could get a full length documentary, which are very powerful, popular these days, get it on Netflix, get it on Amazon. Maybe get in Sundance. Maybe get in into other movie venues. Maybe get, maybe get an award in this and he's award winning guy. Maybe that'll get it out. Maybe the word will get out and people will see it, because he's got testimonials in there. He's got, he's got University has a department in there. He's got neurosurgeons in there. He's got me in there. There's all kinds of stuff going on and and I think that might make a big difference. So people go to that website, oh, three movie.com you can click on the 10 minute trailer, and it'll show you what a you'll have to look at me. So sorry for that, but you'll in that trail. You'll see what a marvelous job this guy can do. And if you're so willing, and I hope you are, click on the donate button, because he needs money. He needs about a half a million dollars to produce this damn thing. And and we don't have quite the half a million yet. We're almost there, but, but we would be very by the way, they're all tax deductible, so that's how I think it's going to come up. I'm really hopeful that this movie is going to put it

Unknown Speaker  1:52:06
on the map, right?

Speaker 2  1:52:13
Yeah. Well, yeah. Dr, Frank kind of kicked out everything on my list. Thank you again. It was a great presentation. And if you want to see Dr shellberger again December

Bill Clearfield  1:52:24
convention, I don't know if you want to hang it. I got about 30 more questions in

Speaker 3  1:52:30
here, so I like the guy with the palm tree in the

Speaker 2  1:52:33
back. Oh, Eric. Dr Acevedo has a question. Oh, yeah. How are you? Hey, just want to clarify, just to follow up on that vitamin C, because we know the vitamin C, because there's always debate in our clinic. Okay, so it's peroxidant, vitamin C, 50 and then 25th Myers, which is less than 20. So do we give this? Do we give that? So there's always a debate. So that was, that's why I brought that up. So just to clarify, you always give start. MH, whether whatever the dose of the vitamin C, you still give it on the same day with the 50 or

Speaker 3  1:53:08
the sort of the standing rule is, whatever you're going to do that day, do ozone first, you're good. I haven't seen any problem with anything else, methylene blue, ultraviolet lights, vitamin C. I might be a little hesitant with lipoic acid,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:28
huh? The poly MVA.

Speaker 3  1:53:31
I haven't really used that for a long time, so I'm not really using that, but I wouldn't have any problem with poly. MBA, certainly. Okay, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:40
You gotta get time for a couple more frank. Or have you had

Speaker 3  1:53:43
enough? Okay, we'll do a couple more, and then I need to move on. What I can always come back. We could talk some more,

Speaker 2  1:53:51
you know? Oh, you're definitely coming back. You. You went into the trap,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:58
the magic word.

Speaker 3  1:54:00
I like talking, talking with you guys. It's always fun. As you know,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:04
your thoughts on EBU,

Speaker 3  1:54:07
yeah. So I've got all the toys, folks. I've got the ebus. I got the multi passes, I've got the HEMA lumens, I've got the lights. I've got the whole package, just because that's my bag. We do ozone colonics, by the way, which are pretty amazing. We do ozone saunas. So we do all kinds of stuff. But EBU is, I think it's a game changer, and I'm not terribly impressed with multi pass, although it has its function. But EBU could be the big game changer. And I say that because it's a it looks like it's the same kind of principle. For those of you that aren't familiar with this, you're putting a large board needle in both arms, so you need pretty good veins, and then that's connected to pump that's going to pump blood out of one arm, run it through a filter that does two things. One, it filters the blood from residues. What do we see in those filters? We see biofilms. We see blood clots. We see bacteria. We see white cells. There's probably heavy metals in there. We haven't quite found all that stuff yet. One, one of, one of the cases we saw you were there, bill for that presentation was she found spike protein in the filter. So anyhow, it runs the blood, pumps the blood out, ozonates it, but it ozonates in a special way that's different from mAh and and then it filters that blood, and then runs the ozonated, filtered, oxygenated blood back into the other other arm. And the patient is running through this process for about an hour. It's easy to do once you just get both the needles in. It's piece of cake. And there's something about that treatment that will do what no other ozone treatment will do. So I think there's a lot more to learn about it. One of our one of our members by the name of Cochran, gives you know, he gives tutorials on it. He's really getting good at it. He's doing a lot of research with it. And he's, we feature him at the meeting every year. So Brendan Cochran can give us a rundown on that. But anybody that's interested in EBU, I would look up Brendan Cochran, C, O, C, H, R, a n, Brandon Cochran. He's a naturopath. He's in either, well, he's either in Washington, Oregon, I kind of think he's in Washington, but if you can contact him, I don't have his contact number right on me, but if you can contact him, he's he's the guy to to learn about EBU. And by the way, the other caveat, I will tell you is, don't just go buy any EBU machine. There's some crap stuff out there where they don't use ozone resistant filters. You're going to be putting microplastics into the patient. The doses are all wrong. The flow rate's wrong. Talk to Brendan before you ever buy an Eboo device. So you make sure you get the right one.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:22
We'll have to find him. Maybe, so was that up to find him? Maybe

Speaker 3  1:57:27
so get him. Yeah. Well, you know, maybe I can, you know, like, let's let me just see if I don't have his his phone number here real quick,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:36
like,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:38
well, while you're looking that up, that somebody asked, What generator do you use? But I was going to ask you a broader question. So, you know,

Speaker 3  1:57:44
I was, well, I use all I use all kinds. I've got a whole bunch of them. Now, part of the reason is that I'm the guy everybody looks to to answer questions like that. And so I just, you know, I figured, well, maybe I better have all the ozone generator so I can give an answer to that. My favorite is the one that's made by if you go to www ozone generator.com they make one called Southern Star, and they do a great job. And it's inexpensive, you know, like my Eboo machine is like, what 30 grand, when my multi passes, like 17 grand. If you go get an Ozona sand, you're looking at eight grand. You can get a perfectly good, it doesn't have all the lights and buzzers, but you can get a perfectly good Southern Star machine, 100% just perfectly engineered for like 2500 so I have a lot of those around, just for backups in in each of the treatment rooms. Brendan's phone number is 425, it's probably his mobile so, but he won't mind. 425-736-4996,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:58
once. Again, 425736499657364996,

Unknown Speaker  1:59:17
okay, is that it?

Unknown Speaker  1:59:23
Yeah, there you go. Yeah, exactly,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:27
yeah, great. Okay, I got about 20 other questions, but I know it's getting old.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:33
I can Yeah. How about we put it up for another time?

Bill Clearfield  1:59:39
Sometime in November,

Speaker 3  1:59:41
December. Yeah, so the next class is this October. I don't know if we're sold out or not. If anybody's interested in going to the class. It's always in Reno. We do it at the pepper mill and good venue. We have a great time. There's maybe 80 100 people there as a rule. And you can register and learn more about the content of the seminars if you go to the academy website, which, once again, is a A O t.us just click on the training buttons and it'll tell you what we cover. Give you a pretty detailed picture of everything we cover. It's two days. So for two whole days, we do cover everything you can possibly think about ozone. And then the second afternoon was hands on, so that everybody learns how to do this stuff, and so you can learn all about that there and register if there's any openings for this October after October, the next opening is going to be next June, like the first week of sort in June.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:50
Okay, are two days enough for you know, experience to clinicians to get

Speaker 3  2:00:57
started. Yeah, for sure. You know, like somebody like you could do it, anybody that's familiar with the IVs. It's a no brainer. And you know, if you're familiar with how to inject knees, that's fine. You just, you don't already know how to do it, you're just gonna shoot some ozone in there while you're at it. So it's pretty easy to do. Let's say you got somebody that's an absolute newbie, an internist, it's never stuck a needle in anything you you could that guy, you know, we do have a people he can. He could hang out my office, if he wants to, and follow me and my nurse practitioners around. He we also have people that are a trainee, sort of trainees, that you can call up and you can visit them wherever they are, and they're kind of around the country, so you don't have to travel all the way to Reno. And if you want some, you know, more personal, hands on type of analysis, anybody is absolutely welcome to come to my clinic and just, if nothing else, just hang out in the nurses station and watch what goes on and talk to the patients in there.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:06
Okay, great. Okay, I know I have a lot of more questions, but we're going to have you, have you come back, Frank and Okay, sometime be fine, because it's, you know, it's getting on 10 o'clock back east, and you've talked, and I think you've you've talked enough. I can't thank you enough again for you know all of your expertise and your knowledge, and you know how you know forth, open and forthcoming you are. I've seen the video. I've actually donated to it. It's well worth your your your time and your effort. We're going to have frank at our in December, at our conference in Reno. We have it preliminary at the element Hotel, which is across from the pepper mill. But now the pepper Mills trying to get at the last minute, they're going to give us a deal, so maybe we'll have it over there, just, you know, dr, dr Burgess doesn't like the smoke there, but we'll, we'll, we'll have suck it up. Otherwise. Don't know, the pepper mill is probably the nicest hotel in Reno, you know, the nicest facilities. We've done our life programs there also, and they've been great to us. We, you know, the AV didn't cost us a whole lot. And not like, not like in

Speaker 3  2:03:25
Vegas. No, don't go to Vegas. Geez.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:29
We were there a couple of years ago, and it was kind of a nightmare. So, exactly. So I again, Frank, thank you so much. And you know, I'll see if I can gather the questions and maybe send them to you, and maybe we can send them out to the the ones that didn't get answered, and we will definitely have you back

Speaker 3  2:03:50
for alright. Okay. Very good. Bill, good, good. Everybody. Great. Great to be with you guys. Have a good

Bill Clearfield  2:03:56
week. Yeah. So again. So John, you have anything, anything to add for tonight?

Speaker 4  2:04:06
No, just Dr Shallenberger is the best of the best. I was going to ask real quick, are you still dealing with the osteopathic prolo regen guys?

Speaker 3  2:04:18
How haven't for a while, maybe the last time I talked with those guys. I love what they do. You know, I learned prolo from those guys and and I still do a certain amount of prolo. But truth is this prolozone, which is a kind of a bastardization of that, combined with ozone works better, so I don't hardly do strict

Speaker 4  2:04:40
prolo anymore. What I we just recently, a few weeks ago, or a month ago, we had Dr Tennant on who wrote the book, Healing is voltage, right? Or voltage is healing. I forget. And then my background is in neurotherapy and their biggest and their biggest breakthrough was in 1990 when they got the double Nobel Prize for figuring out that it was not that it was a voltage variation, an increase in voltage of the cells allowed for the enhancement of cellular communication, and it was so important, they got the Nobel Prize. But here we are, 35 years later, and the importance of ozone and neurotherapy and all these voltage things are still not out there that much. I'd love to email you if I couldn't ask you about a few things like

Speaker 3  2:05:36
that. Yeah, you know, I love your comment, uh, it's electron movement. So with tenants doing, in a way, really segues in real nice to procaine and, you know, ozone and the whole thing. It's all electron movement.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:52
Yep. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:54
Okay, guys, take

Unknown Speaker  2:05:56
care. Thank you. Thank you. Are you here

Bill Clearfield  2:06:01
or Dr Tano, are they here? Either one or research guys,

Unknown Speaker  2:06:05
they're not here. Yeah, Quinn's

Unknown Speaker  2:06:07
here. Quinn's here. He's the man.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:10
Must be a fall in Vegas

Speaker 6  2:06:13
already. You're wearing a shirt. Oh, man. You're talking about flash floods and everything here. Man, been crazy, yeah, just, just real quickly, a couple of things. And I think we've communicated with you and Dr Nario as well, getting a little bit more structure, as Dr Burgess always points out, we started out under aosim, and that's kind of where we are. We're looking to form an affiliation with nfim, which is the media's group, National Foundation for Integrative Medicine. They have resources. They have a lot of people. They have governmental background or hand backing. They have done grant research. They've got money coming in. He's all about everything that we're doing, even including the tribal type of stuff that that's happening. That's one thing. The other thing is, we're, we're very excited about the meeting in December, hoping everybody and everybody that's on can come and even more people that aren't Doctor Burgess, I believe, sent you, I don't know if you saw this, he sent an email with proposed talks from some of us, four people speaking that'll cover two hours. I hope that you that you saw that, and you'll be able to

Bill Clearfield  2:07:30
comment on that. Yeah, I want you to cover four hours, not two hours. Oh, god,

Unknown Speaker  2:07:37
okay. We

Speaker 6  2:07:39
could do it, couldn't we? Are you serious? I'm done, yeah, don't, don't even ask.

Speaker 4  2:07:43
Are you serious? Bill? Would you rather have four than two? Yeah, well, we better talk about that, because this little committee has one hell of a lot going on

Unknown Speaker  2:07:59
right now. They're doing that every Saturday,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:02
every Saturday,

Speaker 6  2:08:04
and I send, I send Dr Clearfield and Dr Nario always the agenda, just in case you you want to, you want to pop in. And the last time, I think I sent you one that that asks specific questions of you guys, and I think I'm asking those now. So again, we're really excited about this. We have a lot of information to put out. When we first started, Dr Burgess said, I want seven weeks so I'll never forget the seven Saturdays. Okay, that's over a year ago.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:36
By the way, is someone asked me if you need the official papers for the aosim, remind me. I keep forgetting to send them to you. Remind me tomorrow. Send me a text tomorrow, and I'll make sure you

Speaker 4  2:08:46
get them. That's you. The National Foundation of integrative medicine, which is Pete Dimitri, and he's with us. He needs the formal taxpayer papers to show where non to show our non profit.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:01
Okay, I got them. No worries. Okay, just remind me. You know, I got 9 million things going on. So, yeah.

Speaker 2  2:09:09
So, by the way, just to get you updated, our Philippine delegates here is also in behind the scenes, I'm working with our officers in relation to our international tie ups. So that's I'm going to present that to you guys soon. I I'm just going to get in touch with them. Wow, wonderful. Yeah, as soon as this happens, definitely we can make better connections internationally.

Speaker 6  2:09:35
Okay, okay, yeah. And then I think part of what we would talk about at the at the meeting will be the tribal affiliation and how that moves things forward, and especially areas that we're not exactly I guess. I don't know what the word is, totally confident, and what things can do. We get the sovereign protection. There are clinics out there that are operating extremely well right now with that, and we're, as I've mentioned, Doctor Mario, I think, a couple of times, where we've got Shin Laza, which is an FDA drug manufacturing company, coming down to Nevada, in Las Vegas, from Canada, The United States was very welcoming to get these guys in here. And Canada tried to seize all of their equipment because they didn't want them to leave, right? So these guys are really good, and I'll be giving everybody information on all the stuff that they do, peptides and anything and everything sourced from the United States whenever possible. That's one of the reasons why America wanted them here.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:38
Good stuff. Yeah, we're lucky.

Speaker 2  2:10:42
So doctor bill, we have Doctor Marlene Siegel. Is she volunteering December? I don't know if

Bill Clearfield  2:10:49
that's yeah. Well, veterinary lecture, yeah, on here on October 7, and in the end in the either live or live or on, on,

Speaker 5  2:11:00
on Memorex, hey, I'll fly out to Oh, there you go.

Speaker 6  2:11:05
Okay, perfect, all right. And then, and then, do we have somewhere? Dr Clearfield, do we have somewhere? Dr Anthony James is presenting to

Unknown Speaker  2:11:12
this group, right? Yeah.

Speaker 6  2:11:15
Okay. He's one of our main guys. You you'll be amazed at what this guy does and has done with his school. He's got an accredited state of Florida School that Dr Tano is working with to provide degrees. Those degrees now will automatically allow people to become certified travel healers. So there's, there's a lot of integration going on right

Bill Clearfield  2:11:37
now. Okay, that's great. So I hate to bring up two items that are in the news here, just in the last week, for for us, hormone folks, one, the FDA has proposed a ban on NDT thyroid so armor and and NP thyroid, natural desiccated thyroid. And so there are several surveys going around, you know, to to try and reverse that they it was the original proposal was it was going to be banned immediately. It's now been been put off for a year. So,

Unknown Speaker  2:12:21
yeah, that's a lot of people to change to get onto the

Bill Clearfield  2:12:24
synthetic, right? So, you know, so you have to wonder where that came from. And the other one just came across my desk not an hour before Dr Shallenberger started the British Medical Journal dated August 20, which is this week, there's an article on menopause. Misinformation is harming care. And the bottom line is, is that testing for menopausal hormonal levels is harmful and not necessary. And yeah, and should not be done and should not be paid for, particularly salivary testing, is it should not be done and compounded hormones? Well, we've heard this before, is also extremely harmful. So this came just across my desk, just just like two hours ago. It's the British Medical Journal. It's dated, August 20, 2025, and it's labeled menopause. Information is harming care. So I don't know if Carol's on. You know, that would be up her alley and and also mine. So, so those things are in the news. So you know, just when you know, one step forward, two steps back, just when you think you know, we've, we've beaten this, this, you know, horse to death. Because if we don't do testing, they'll tell that we they turn around and say, Well, you didn't do any testing. So how are you, how are you prescribing things? So, so there you go. Okay?

Speaker 5  2:13:54
And with that, dr, dr Clearfield, yes, is it alright to share something quick on, on giv ozone, please. Please do all right. Is it when I put up this phone, are you able to I'm trying to show you a picture. Does it come across on your screen?

Unknown Speaker  2:14:11
Yeah, just

Speaker 6  2:14:14
Yeah. We can see it, but pull it back a little back it up.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:17
Yeah, and you need to talk now. Say something. Okay, there you go. So

Speaker 5  2:14:25
this is myself giving IV ozone with a CT pressure injector filled with 100 cc's ozone primed to the tip. And I'm a radiologist, and I had my own imaging center. So about a month and a half after meeting Dr Shallenberger back in 2018 or something like that, I was my first ozone patient. So I'm going to go to the next that's me on the table. Then that's it's backwards for me to look at. But anyways, the face of my CT scanners on there, and with the last, say, 1520, to 15 seconds of 100 CC injection, we did a CT in my chest. So here are, I don't know if, if, if it you can Anyways, these are, these are just showing that I did the CT. There's, you know, nothing wrong going on. These are some of the money shots. And it's hard for me to to do this backwards, but there, Boy, I wish I could get closer so I could actually see anyways, there's just a few little bubbles tracking along the subclavian the superior vena cava, pulmonary artery, right? That's my mom. Anyway, Oh, mom, yeah, anyhow, they're superficial. They're you're not going to end up causing an air embolus the

Unknown Speaker  2:15:57
I want to show you the next couple images here that are kind of important when correlating this to say MRI And so, when, when? Oh, yeah, how do you? Don't know how to adjust the brightness for you. Anyways, this is a sagittal reconstructed

Speaker 5  2:16:25
cardiac MRA, and I don't know if you can make out the difference on here, as far as contrast. Anyways, there's a there's a bulge right there that shows you a patent where a patent ductus would be a patent foramen o Valley. Now this is you're looking at it as if the person was sitting up. You turn this. This is how they were then scanned, right so when you go to the axial image of this, I don't know if you can, if you're making it out on there anyway, the dark contrast is the right atrium, right ventricle, and contrasted left atrium, left ventricle. And when I go to the next image, you'll see this was contrast trying to push through a patent foramen o Valley. The left side is dependent. When you're giving IV gas, ozone gas, it's all going to be very superficial tracking along the, you know, under surface of the radiant treatment. Right ventricle. I'm not saying it's impossible to get an air embolus. It's extremely, extremely unlikely. And I do this supine. I do a hand injection, 65 cc's or so. I haven't had any any problem, and anybody else injecting supine isn't either. Now, if you want to bear with me for just a minute, there's around 250,000 C CT scans, just CT scans done a day, not including Mr. Scans or Mr. With contrast. If you just took 100,000 scans done in the country a day using contrast, injected, and you studied the images, you'd find nearly 100% of them have an air bubble, or two or three or dozens that track along the same venous pathway, and no one ever hears word one about air embolus. And those injections are done in people with cardiovascular reconstructive surgery that aren't screened to find out, do they have some sort of shun they're just scanned.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:36
So the the A

Speaker 5  2:18:42
version of using DIB is, in my opinion, unwarranted, but that's my experience, and I've done probably 900 DIB cases since I started, and thankfully, I had some training with Dr Robinson got me going on, and he's up to somewhere about 430,000 cases. Anyway, I just thought it was fair to give it a shake and show you why and what it's about.

Speaker 6  2:19:09
Crouch. Real, real quick question here, wasn't it standard therapy on some countries all over the world, Brazil and some others, weren't they really big on that. And then Dr Shallenberger said tonight that that they're, they're they tend not to do it anymore. Are you familiar with other countries doing

Speaker 5  2:19:29
this? Nope, I don't. I don't know what they're doing. I just It works. It works great. It's easy to do. I use a 27 gage butterfly to do it so that you really be very difficult if you had a mistake and push too hard. It's just a very slow injection, and it's a nice pub for them. The other thing is, so you're going to hear all, you're going to have venous injury. Well, I have not had anybody have complaints about their veins or disappearing veins. I have several patients who have had this routinely for years. Their veins are fine and but it's again, a slow injection. If I sense some pressure from their vein having some spasm, I detach and I flush it with some saline, then I reattach and continue with my ozone.

Speaker 2  2:20:18
That's a crouch. I think you earned a spot for presentation here.

Speaker 5  2:20:24
Well, it wouldn't be a very long spot. I've given you a glimpse from another presentation on Mr. Lumbar spine and how I got into all this as a radiologist. And anyways,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:39
what are you doing November 21 Dr Kelly,

Unknown Speaker  2:20:43
I have a family wedding coming up right then

Bill Clearfield  2:20:45
about the 28th

Speaker 5  2:20:48
the wedding is on that Friday. So anyways, well, I'll get you a good speaker on something that I think everybody would like so and I'm glad to try to do something more formal. Just wouldn't be that length of time that you want. I just, and I wanted to show this to Dr Shallenberger. He's the one that got me started, and he said, Don't do it. But I went and got training with Robbins, and I visited with Dr Ng and Dr Bronstein and picked up pearls from them. They were doing more the MH stuff. But anyway, I guess that's why I'm a radiologist, and I like putting needles and

Bill Clearfield  2:21:31
stuff. So most of us don't have a CAT scan, you know, laying around to play.

Speaker 5  2:21:38
I get that, but so just, just so you realize that the room air injection by CT is a big deal in places they are horrible. UPMC actually developed a hyperbaric protocol a couple years ago is because they were they were short staffed. They had poorly trained people getting IV set up, not putting contrast in their power injector and hitting the go button. And those people got power injected, I mean, bolus, 200 cc's of gas. Now you're talking about an air endocardiogram blockage and person seizing on their table. So, so it was, it was happening so often at this major university system that they had to create a hyperbaric protocol to get people out and get them therapy from their gas infusion.

Bill Clearfield  2:22:36
So the bottom, the bottom

Unknown Speaker  2:22:38
line is, stay away from hospitals. There you go.

Bill Clearfield  2:22:42
It's a dangerous place to be if

Speaker 4  2:22:44
you're sick. Can I give you a quote from Leonardo da Vinci? The best way to deal with doctors is to avoid

Speaker 5  2:22:52
them. Yep. But anyways, I just, I thought you'd appreciate the the deal about dib, and what really the obstacle is that it, it's, you're not going to get

Bill Clearfield  2:23:05
an air embolus. Okay, Alright, great. Okay, guys, I think we, those of those of us that are putting the program together, we need to, we need to meet up sometime, you know, shortly, an hour somewhere along the line, do a zoom or a phone call or something, and start getting getting our programs together and so we can get our publicity out. Okay, Doc tech, thank you, Dr couch, that's you've now volunteered so

Speaker 5  2:23:40
you're in trouble. Now we'll figure something out. You will, we will

Bill Clearfield  2:23:45
Okay. Anybody else have anything, any comments or questions? We had a really nice group on here tonight. There was, at one point, 82 it's, you know, one of the, one of the one of the better attended ones. And of course, Dr Shallenberger, you know, world famous, and we get them, you know, here for free, Billy. So I don't know how many total there are, when when I, when I, when I do the count. We've probably had over 90 total. So that's Jay Campbell territory there. So, so any comments or questions about anything,

Speaker 7  2:24:21
I would like to ask about this group that it's on Saturday. I would like to attend it too, if it's possible for Integrative Medicine

Speaker 4  2:24:34
doctor, we're, we're kind of a specialty committee that started out so we could get honest answers, and the way we get honest answers is by doing honest research. So we're definitely, definitely a Research Committee, and that was the focus when we started. And how can we do research that's ethical? That was so, yes, you're definitely welcome.

Speaker 7  2:24:57
Oh, I can come, okay, thank you. I did not do any research, but I would like to see

Unknown Speaker  2:25:05
I mean, you

Bill Clearfield  2:25:06
have to start somewhere,

Speaker 6  2:25:08
yeah. So, so Can, can we get your email from the chat, and then I can invite you? Okay, my email, or you can just tell me,

Speaker 7  2:25:20
yeah, it's evil from ozone therapy, E, B, O, O, E, B, O, O, doctor, D, O, C, D, O, r2, 1020, four@icloud.com

Unknown Speaker  2:25:34
Okay.

Speaker 7  2:25:36
I'm a physician internal medicine. I did, took the class of Dr schollenberger in Nevada. I took it during the pandemic, immediately after they started giving in 2021 and then i i also bought

Speaker 6  2:25:53
a Igbo machine I have. Where do you practice?

Unknown Speaker  2:25:57
Where are you located? In Florida, okay,

Speaker 7  2:26:06
I covered for a doctor because he had heart surgery and I was available

Speaker 6  2:26:12
there. Okay, so the call starts at noon, your time

Speaker 7  2:26:18
at noon? My time? Okay, Eastern Time, okay, 12. Yes, okay, yeah. I mean, I have a son. He's he just got into residency now, but he did publish, and he did a lot of research, but he's very busy. I don't have, like, he's, he's in his own world. Yeah, he wants to do that. He's doing the mythology like,

Speaker 6  2:26:49
Well, you're welcome to to join. Have a listen and all that. The only formal thing we have, we have a couple of committees that have been formalized, the apothecary committee, and that's about it for now. Product approval committee under that. But you're welcome to come and listen, and if there's anything that you like, you're welcome to stay, participate, and whatever. And as Dr Burgess said, this research projects, if you've got anything going on there, and maybe even your ozone treatments, and you can contribute, maybe the results, or something like that, we'd be happy to have you. Okay,

Speaker 7  2:27:25
I did. I did in Romania when I was I did pharmacy, and, I mean, I work in pharmacy, and we were trained by pharmacists, and we used to do a lot of preparations there, like formulas and powders and things like that, good. And we were trained by pharmacists and all those. But then I came into United States when I was 26 years old, and I also did dentistry. And I did four years of dentistry, and yeah, I have one of my colleagues. She's in Beverly Hills. She's She has a cleaning there. She's doing prosthetics. And then I did general medicine another four years, and I took my medical boards here, and I went to

Unknown Speaker  2:28:11
residency. Okay, great, great.

Speaker 7  2:28:16
So since I was 14 years old, I went to this boarding school with pharmacy, nursing. We had specialized high schools there. And

Unknown Speaker  2:28:28
good, I just

Unknown Speaker  2:28:30
want to give a little bit

Speaker 6  2:28:32
of background, yeah, no, that's, that's great. That's great. Well, yeah, please join us. I'll send you the information. It's um,

Speaker 8  2:28:39
it's a Zoom meeting. Okay, okay, then thank you. Dr queen, thank you. Okay, bye, bye,

Unknown Speaker  2:28:45
bye. Dr King,

Bill Clearfield  2:28:49
okay, all right. Anybody else have anything? Okay, we'll talk to you all. We'll set up a meeting somewhere along the line here within the next week and and we'll take it from there. And somebody, well, that was the doctor who just talked Okay, alright, thanks, everybody. We had a great time next week, we have, we're going to learn about spermidine from longevity labs. Okay, and Doctor Nario, you gotta get me to contact for that, yes. So if you don't know what it is, look it up, because we're going to have a whole discussion on spermidine. And again, anybody has anything they want, like, like to present. Please let me know, and we'll see you all. Uh, same time, same station, everybody, if you're asking where to find the videos, A, O, S, R, d.org, one of these games, I'll change it to the to the new one. Um, slash, webinars

Unknown Speaker  2:29:55
are there

Bill Clearfield  2:29:56
or, or on YouTube. I don't put any of that this. This one should be okay. I don't put anything on that's cannabis or any of that, because we get shadow band that we the one that Dr halasa Did on cancer, you know, stuff. It accidentally got on there, and then it got pulled that YouTube pulled it off. It's just a blank so,

Unknown Speaker  2:30:19
so when YouTube,

Bill Clearfield  2:30:24
it's under my name, really, it's Clearfield

Speaker 1  2:30:27
Medical Group, and this one will probably get banned by YouTube because he mentioned that it can this therapy can be used for cancer.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:37
Well, yeah, well, he said adjunct, but

Bill Clearfield  2:30:40
you're right. Not even bother to upload it. I'm

Speaker 1  2:30:44
going to put it on my rumble channel, because I have too many strikes as it is on YouTube. I'm not

Speaker 4  2:30:52
going to risk it. Okay, like Dr Shallenberger mentioned he's been doing this for 4050, years, and we're still waiting. We're still waiting for the public to accept this powerful stuff. This our ethical thing. Is it safe? Is it effective? Is it affordable? That's all we deal with ethics, and Dr Shallenberger deals with that extensively and but he's been waiting 4050, years to be approved now. Now he's famous here. He's becoming famous, but he's been telling the truth for a long time, and not many

Bill Clearfield  2:31:34
are listening. He's a lot of, he's had a lot of source to who along the way, from the from the powers that be, So, which means trouble so, and he's, you know, he's, he's, he's the he's weathered it well. So, so with that, we'll say thank you all for still being here, those that are left, and we'll talk to you soon, and thank you are going going smoothly, swimmingly, right? Okay, thank you all, and we'll talk to you shortly, tonight.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai