Speaker 1  00:32
Hey, Joe,

Unknown Speaker  00:34
hello. Can you hear me? Good, good. How'd the day go?

Bill Clearfield  00:41
I'm fine. Good. I'm the speaker tonight. Our speaker dropped down. So,

Unknown Speaker  00:47
yeah, it's about work.

Bill Clearfield  00:50
It's okay. We got I'm gonna practice what I did what I'm doing for ammg, next month. So, oh, good. So I made you to co host, and I guess Melvin too, when he gets on. That's okay, yeah, definitely. I don't know if you want Thursday night. Is nacaratos thing in Folsom. Remember we went to that? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So we gotta leave by five to get there at seven. So if you're at all interested, go and let me know. 5am No, 5pm 5pm

Unknown Speaker  01:22
Oh, remember,

Bill Clearfield  01:23
we went last year. Yeah,

Speaker 2  01:25
yeah, definitely, yeah, that sounds good.

Bill Clearfield  01:29
So if you want to go, let you know, just let me know, because I have to lead by five okay, yeah, no, that'll work. It's two hours to get there.

Speaker 2  01:37
Yeah, I know. No, that's actually perfect. I have a Thursday appointment. See, it's uh, times that, yeah, 11am so I'm good.

Bill Clearfield  01:57
So I don't know. We had a friend from Philly was at the Palisades. I guess it's called now, right Squaw Valley, and it snowed there pretty heavy all week. Okay, went to visit her a week ago Sunday, and then after that, couldn't, couldn't get there. So I hope the hope the hills. Okay?

Speaker 2  02:23
You know, I still got my winter tires on the Subaru, so we should be okay. I was thinking about going to Subaru and asking them, when do they think we're supposed to, you know, switch over the winter tires to the summer tires. I'm pretty sure it's, it's pretty soon going

Bill Clearfield  02:46
to, if you're going over to pass it at the cam here, it looks, I mean, you know, there's snow on the sides. It looks like it's clear. So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:57
that would be all right. We'll be okay.

Bill Clearfield  03:03
When I was a little kid, we use chains when our cars back home, but I hadn't seen that in a long time till I moved back out here.

Speaker 2  03:14
True, true. Well, and they got these new spider chains. I don't know if you've heard about those. They latch on pretty quick. They're kind of simple, and they use them quite a bit rather than doing the whole full chain thing. That's except for truckers. Truckers still do the full chain thing,

Bill Clearfield  03:37
inflammatory. Inadequate zinc results in a impaired immune response, and zinc will maintain, help maintain the gut barrier. High and low levels can disrupt this barrier and result

Unknown Speaker  03:49
in GI infections. Iron is necessary for oxygen transport.

Unknown Speaker  03:55
A

Bill Clearfield  03:57
it's better,

Speaker 2  04:00
right, right. We should be okay, going to Tahoe.

Unknown Speaker  04:08
So hey guys,

Speaker 2  04:12
Hey Ken. Hey Ken, good to hear from you. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  04:17
But what are you up to? Anything exciting?

Speaker 3  04:23
Just still trying to survive doctor bill. Aren't we all

Unknown Speaker  04:28
Amen.

Speaker 3  04:32
I've tried to send a couple patients in the Reno area to you. I don't know if they've reached out yet, but they're, you know, I'm not going to, they're referrals, and so I don't know if they're really worth, worth it or not. When I got someone that I know is for sure, then I usually introduce them to you.

Bill Clearfield  04:59
Yeah, nice. Well, yeah, we'll, we'll, we'll do what we can.

Unknown Speaker  05:03
Amen.

Speaker 3  05:06
Amen is right? This group has been growing. I'm really impressed.

Bill Clearfield  05:13
Yeah, we're growing. Doctor Burgess is arranging for a live conference.

Speaker 3  05:19
Are we really going to do that at

Bill Clearfield  05:23
the end of May? I mean, he's given me two months. I know

Speaker 3  05:29
is that the best time there's, there's a number of conferences in in May, maybe not the first

Bill Clearfield  05:39
point you just have to jump in and say, we're going to do it. I mean, it's never, it's never the good time, right, right?

Unknown Speaker  05:45
Yeah,

Speaker 4  05:46
and we could do it 10 times. We could do it anytime. What we're doing is establishing here a good connection with this facility. It's a major facility. You'll have no idea until you get here, because you've never been in a facility like this. If you've been in top secret military, oh,

Bill Clearfield  06:06
we've been, we've been at omit before. Come on

Speaker 4  06:09
a schematic of that, and the three sort of takeaways here are, there are metabolites from the gut, brain access, there are hormones that are regulated here. And there's also neurotransmitters, which we've just mentioned,

Speaker 3  06:25
hormones and the as you know, I'm the hormone guy, so I always like to look at what

Speaker 4  06:32
the effect the hormones have on whatever our topic is. And so the gut microbiome and the brain, cortisol, stress hormone, can author Bifidobacterium and lactobacillus leading to dysbiosis and low grade inflammation. The glucagon glucose metabolism is inhibited with food intake and stimulates brown fat thermogenesis and activates

Bill Clearfield  06:56
like lipolysis, ghrelin and orexin

Speaker 4  07:00
reestablish appetite during fasting, and are effective affect the growth hormone development through the growth hormone I'm a snake, and we'll all figure this out. I'm I'm paying you guys, or whatever the situation will be paying you guys because it will help to make you famous. And I'm not joking. I also made a contract with a documentary film crew today, and I also agreed to give $250,000 of my personal camera gear to the seed, not the documentary film crew. I agreed today to give $250,000 in camera work to the NCTC. So this half billion dollar facility I agreed to give. And if they're low, it's indicative dysbiosis, stress reaction and an immune compromise any Gliadin IGA. So this is your response to gluten, eosinophil activation protein. This is your infections and allergic diseases. This is your mast cell activation. And calprotectin is sort of your gold standard as an inflammatory marker, and you can tell differentiate between irritable bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome. And Zonulin is an intestinal permeability marker. This is a little bit more information on each one of these tests. I give you normals and abnormals. I just read through what each one of them does. So you can use this for your own use. And it's all again, all the same tests. And it's kind of the again, what the what the lab values are high and low. So I wanted to show you this the H Pylori, the antibiotic. It gives us resistant genes. Now what this means is, remember resistant genes. That means if the if it's marked positive, it means that this, this, amoxicillin, is resistant to h pylori, so we need to use the negative antibiotics, the ones that are not resistant. So clarithim, my son, and amoxicillin, which are our usuals in H Pylori, antibiotics would not be effective in this patient. We also have parasites, and in this patient, this patient has anomoeba E coli.

Unknown Speaker  09:31
Training Center. There you go. And if

Speaker 4  09:33
you would like to do that, we could probably play with those titles. This is the finest facility in the East Coast, and take my word at it now, and if I'm wrong, you can slap me around later with the way I'm setting up. Is that a promise? Promise, nobody's going to touch me. Once you get here, you're going to go, okay, so

Unknown Speaker  09:59
I was

Bill Clearfield  10:01
sort of wavering whether I wanted to go or not, John. But if that's if, that's if that's part of the package, then that I'm in

Unknown Speaker  10:07
So Andy, did you say May 30 and 31st

Speaker 4  10:11
Yeah, the following day. The following day, we will have something similar to a pow wow at Maurice farm, which is only 10 minutes away. So we will do our thing within two days. If you're a speaker, the first day you want to fly in or fly in the day before. So you will arrive, if you're talking on the 30th, you'll arrive on the 29th right? Yeah. We we also made arrangements that the the cost for the rooms. If this is one way of looking at you could say $110 for the room, or you could say it's $210 stress related symptoms and increased gut permeability. Remedies here for high high cholesterol or high cortisol. Sorry, dietary fiber decreases cortisol. DHEA will balance cortisol. So patients with high DHEA levels, particularly usually have low, sorry, high cortisol levels have low DHEA levels, and you can measure a ratio of of the two that we want to balance to and inulin, which is a prebiotic, decreases cortisol also and improves cognition. Decreased cortisol results in circadian rhythm disruptions with decreased diversity and an immune impairment. Growth hormone, remember the the active portion of a growth hormone is IGF one or which is becomes disrupted and with production and signaling. This is due to an interleukin six excess, which creates a relative in IGF one deficiency, this can result in impairment in development with deficits in what we call executive function. This was the kind of the aha moment for traumatic brain injuries and hormones pairings. It's prevalent in autism and also traumatic brain injuries. Excess growth hormone versus deficiency. We get some some opposition species, including Proteobacteria, Camp flow bacter and actino bacteria, we get an excess of versus deficiency of opposite microbial maturity and excess versus deficiency of in metabolite counts. I'm going to take a brief segue.

Bill Clearfield  12:41
Some of you have heard my my lectures on autism, and this is a good spot to just

Speaker 4  12:48
give you just a quick run through here, because the microbiome is extremely sensitive and disrupted with with in autistic children. This is just a schematic sort of of the symptoms here on the outer portion. These are the hypersensitivity, language delay, repetitive behavior, social isolation. The etiologies are not clear, but there's some what's called maternal activation, which could be a placental separation. It could be placental infection. It could be a drug. Drug induced symptoms. Results in microglial activation, which the microglia is the inflammatory cells, neurons in the brain, which creates inflammation and the cytokine storm. It results in what's not what we call the big headed kid. So, you know, all babies have big heads versus their body, and it's usually not noticed till afterwards or retrospectively that the autistic children have extremely large heads versus the rest of their body. And it turns out that they have an elevated growth hormone and elevated interleukin six, but a diminished IGF one. Remember, IGF one is the portion of growth hormone that is must be there for I for growth hormone to be able to perform its functions it also has. This is IGF BP one. This is the a transport protein which is elevated, which also binds IGF one, which creates cellular damage, low GABA, which we already mentioned, is your calming neurotransmitter. Here are the symptoms of growth hormone deficiency on the left and the symptoms of the autistic spectrum on the right. And as you can see, I mean, they match almost line per line, the the again, the inability to switch between tasks, the inability to perform get things done, what is known as executive function, was the key here that that gave us a clue that this is what, this is what was going on. And we have to remember that this is the steroid agenda pathway, and what we're looking for this is the one that we normally look at. Is that cholesterol to progester, pregnenolone to DHEA to testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. But there's another pathway that's in the brain that's not very well studied or not very well known about, and that's pregnant alone, to progesterone to dihydro progesterone to allopregine alone. Allopregine alone is the is the linchpin that this is that produces GABA, the calming neurotransmitter, if you're if you give a patient benzodiazepines, Valium, Xanax, any of the Razer, Pan, any of them, they mechanism of action is they stimulate allopregnanolone to make GABA. So if we're able to do that without using the benzodiazepines, although they're inexpensive, you know that they're addicting, they create respiratory issues, and there's a lot of drug interactions, and this is where a lot of the behavioral issues with the autistic children. This is the this is where the action is.

Speaker 4  16:10
we have deep connection with all of the national parks. So environment like Dr Patel man, what we could do with her? There she would be, you know, Queen of the hop, but I don't want to have her fly around and be exhausted, especially if we're going to talk for a day. So anybody wants to come in will be part of the documentary film we're putting together and other communications. So we'll make you famous as the because that's how I introduce these speakers, as the finest in the world. And fortunately, I don't have to lie about it. I just have to tell the truth. We do have the best speakers anyway, the year of Chartered environmental sustainability and decreased toxicity, all of us, every one of us has talked at the end of all of our therapies, but we have to stop the poisoning. This is the place the organization, the film production program, my friends fly out in helicopters and film out. I was with the mount rush for more film head today, and then he was working again with the Indians, who are there running Mount Rushmore now. So we have the connection with the Indians to the Native Americans, like I did said today, they were honoring the dead at the burial ground. That's an eagle's flying over my head, and there's the Indian burial ground. And we cut these deals today out of nowhere, within like 10 minutes, I'll shut up our board, select committee of research, and that's headed by Dr Quinn, by the way, will decide which topics are the top three most important to us all. The new V the new topics, okay, will help. Well, okay, the new topics will help to lead us in the most efficient way we're trying to go, where the best medicine is, and without the research, how do we know where to go? So the research is a big thing. It's headed by Dr Quinn. We will lean on the past, the knowledge, right? We will lean on the past, but realize the future, the word realized by doing the research, the action and the other things like this, we are realizing we are making it happen. That's what that means. We realize the future. New topics will help to see that future. And those are like people we have on the screen right now. This is an announcement conference. We announce the future. You like that slogan, we announce the future. And I'm telling the truth, so I don't have to be too screwy about it. So Friday, ready for this Friday, Breathing, with all wrinkled skin, had no estrogen. Progesterone will balance keratocyte production and unbalanced progesterone will really result in inflammatory, excessive oil production, clog pores and acne like lesions. Testosterone weakens skin's ability to retain moisture, creates an increase in permeability, increased trans epithelial water loss and compromised Barrett skin barrier function. Diet influences diversity and composition of the gut microbiome, fiber, fruits and vegetables and whole grains promote beneficial bacteria. allowed us to do it. And another reason, if you're doing why don't we? Oh, sorry, why don't we get

Bill Clearfield  20:04
started with the lecture and then we can finish this afterwards. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  20:08
I agree, totally. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  20:11
good. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  20:13
alright. So our speaker today was supposed to be Doctor Jacqueline Sammons, and she couldn't make it, so you got me. So those of you who don't know me, I am Bill Clearfield. I've been the, the titular head of the this, this group, since 2020, we we've been running these seminars every Tuesday night for four and a half years. We are the integrative medicine group not associated with the AOA anymore. So so tonight I'm going to talk about the microbiome, and this is a lecture that I'm going to be giving in April of next, next month in Miami, to the age management Medical Group. And unfortunately, I understand it's the same weekend as a 4m so I don't know what kind of crowd we're going to have, but so this is kind of a trial, trial rehearsal, and if you'll like it, fine, and if you don't like it, send me some hate mail. So we're going to talk about the microbiome. And again, it's a CME credit, so I have no conflicts here. We're going to talk about what is the microbiome. Hang on, though, let us before we do that, let us record. Are we recording?

Unknown Speaker  21:44
I believe so,

Bill Clearfield  21:46
okay, I don't see it either. I

Unknown Speaker  21:49
see the recording up in the upper left hand corner.

Bill Clearfield  21:51
Okay, all right, yeah, okay. We are okay. So, so what is the microbiome? And we're going to talk about I lost my pointer. So let us so let us begin. So the microbiome is a community of microorganisms that is exists in a specific environment, and there are actually many microbiomes. We usually think of it as the GI tract, but the oral cavity is a microbiome. The respiratory tract is a microbiome, and the vaginal cavity is also a microbiome. Micro organism groups are dynamic. They change, and you know, we well know this, particularly with diet and exercise and medication and different types of exposures. And now I am really in a pickle here, because somehow I got a pencil and I can't advance my meats, seafood, spinach and tomatoes. Monitor the symptoms and your step by step guide. Again, the IgG duration is at least three weeks and up to six weeks, and then eliminate the foods one

Bill Clearfield  23:07
It's composed of bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites, and gut micro microbial species contain 3.3 million different genes versus 23,000 human genes. And it plays a role, and we're going to see this tonight in a metabolic and immune function, cerebral activity, digestive and extra digestive pathologies. So the role of the microbiome is basically balanced. You want to be balanced between digestion and homeostasis. It breaks down complex carbohydrates. It produces short chain fatty acids, glutamine, arginine, Vitamin K and folate. It modulates the immune function. It promotes antigens. It deconjugates bile acids. And it's anti microbial. It's anti inflammatory. It regulates metabolisms, and there are links to both the brain and the skin. The story of the microbiome began in 18 really. In 1882 there was a cholera epidemic. And then there was a second one in 1892 in northern Germany particularly. And there were 86,080 600 deaths in Hamburg, which was a good portion of the population at the time, and it was due to poor sanitary conditions bacteria in the gut. And this Eli Metchnikoff, he was a Russian biologist, and he proposed that bacteria in the gut prevented cholera from taking hold. So like his counterpart in the in the 1980s Barry Marshall, who had postulated that h pylori was the the culprit for stomach ulcers, mentioned a cough, proposed that the bacteria in the in the in the GI tract let left the patients either susceptible to cholera or or they were immune to cholera. So he drank some some cholera, believe it or not, and he took some plain yogurt, and the yogurt actually was a protected against the the the the cholera bacteria.

Unknown Speaker  25:27
specifically post prebiotic, post probiotics, they

Bill Clearfield  25:31
don't work for all conditions. H Pylori, you need to take the probiotics two hours apart from your antibiotics to ensure efficacy. SIBO, probiotics are typically introduced after the bacterial overgrowth is reduced. H Pylori you want to use during and after the treatment for at least four to eight weeks, dietary support combined with prebiotics and postbiotics and dietary invitation. neurotransmitters, cognitive function and neuro developmental and cognitive performance in the skin, there's a community of microorganisms on the skin. The host immune mediation reflects in the skin. Gut microbiomes impact inflammation and the the classic picture of this is psoriasis, caused by the standard American diet. It plays a role in pathogenesis and infections and imbalances in the skin microbiome. Results in eczema, acne, psoriasis and rosacea. The skin is a protective barrier, as you know, and it helps with the moisture and and its integrity. Dysbiosis is an imbalance in the microbiome, particularly the the bacteria. And it could be it's usually due to obesity, allergies, autoimmune diseases, irritable and inflammatory bowel diseases and metabolic syndrome, the heal, the healing portion. And I use four R's. I've seen five R's. I've even seen six R's. And the idea is that you want to remove the harp full triggers, usually foods, white flour, white sugar, dairy, gluten. And I going to add another one here corn, those are the most common triggers you want to repair the gut lining damage with whole foods. De glycerinated Licorice is particularly for upper GI symptoms, particularly gastroesophageal reflux disease, and then l glutamine for lower GI mucosal repair. We want to restore the bacterial flora that's normal with pre and Pro. And if you've been with us over the last six months, we've talked about post biotics and fermented foods, and what do we want to replace the digestive enzymes that are present with that are missing with digestive enzymes and organic pink Himalayan salt or even sea salt. and it's

Speaker 1  28:14
an antioxidant. It will improve insulin resistance

Bill Clearfield  28:17
and it will improve it will decrease total cholesterol, increase, HDL, decrease, LDL, cholesterol, it's also anti inflammatory. Vitamin A is anti inflammatory and anti microbial. And zinc will tighten the the gut junctions and is anti inflammatory. Grapefruit seed extract, we've been been using this lately as our go to for cholesterol. When the cyclodextrin proves to be Saccharomyces Candida and different bacteroides and formicities. And then we're going to look at the ratio between them as important for gi balance, the composition of the microbiome, as I already stated, is there's bacteria for make that. These are gram positives, and they produce the short chain fatty acids. Bacteroides are necessary for carbohydrate metabolism. Fungi are Candida and Saccharomyces. It aids in digestion and immune function. Viruses are bacteriophages that regulate bacterial populations and impact microbial ecosystems, and then there are methods that digest and regulate hydrogen. Influencing factors are diet fiber increases diversity. High fat diets decrease it. Genetics play a role. Age plays a role. The microbiome evolves as one matures, met different medications, particularly antibiotics. You know we we will know this. Probiotics help restore the normal bacteria. And then there are lifestyle issues, sleep, stress, exercise, also all modulate composition diets. So high fiber diets promote bacterial beneficial bacteria and short chain fatty acids, high fat, low carb diets shift the formicities to bacteroides ratio in the negative direction, prebiotics, or non digestible fibers feeding gut bacteria. This is sort of the food for the probiotics, which are live beneficial bacteria, particularly lactobacillus and bifidobacter. And then, as we've had with Ross Pelton on with this concept of postbiotics, which are anti inflammatory antioxidants, these are the sort of the by the end products of probiotics. These are the functional portion of probiotics that yield health benefits, characteristics of the healthy microbiome. We need a high microbial diversity, a rich variety of microbial species. There are measures for it. You don't usually use them, but there are measures. There's an alpha diversity index, alpha diversity, there's a Shannon index and a Simpson index. I didn't really find a whole lot of information on that. Usually, if we're looking at a a GI test, the important ones will be there. The healthy microbiome tolerates environmental changes. It functions. Its functional versatility to metabolize diverse dietary components and ensures metabolic stability. The important phyla are there for my cuties, the bacteroides, Bifidobacterium and the acromancia, functional redundancy is built into the system and with multiple microbial species to that perform similar functions, and that sort of ensures a metabolic stability and consistency of some microbes are lost for whatever reason, antibiotic use, diet changes, dietary Yeah, things like that. So short chain fatty acids are made from different fiber substrates by multiple species. Speaking of the short chain fatty acids, there's three major ones. There's butyrate, which enhances gut barrier integrity. Propionate influences lipid metabolism, and acetate is involved with energy production, and it's a precursor for cholesterol synthesis. Gut barrier integrity is one of The key functions of the i

Unknown Speaker  33:04
Dr Bill got muted.

Bill Clearfield  33:12
Fermentation converts, you

Speaker 5  33:15
kind of cut off there for for a little bit, maybe for like 30 seconds. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  33:21
I think my, my internet connection is going to go out again, like it did before. So can you hear me now? Yep, okay. You want me to

Speaker 5  33:31
go back? It's up to you. If you Where did, where did I leave off?

Speaker 6  33:38
Well, I don't think we heard this, the current slide at all? Did we? Yep, the current slide. We didn't hear. Oh, yeah, that's where we are here. Okay, short chain

Bill Clearfield  33:46
fatty acid production is butyrate, which strengthens tight junctions and helps prevent the so called leaky gut acromancia produces the mucin layer, or protective layer, sort of above the the main barrier, any inflammatory functions. It inhibits NF Kappa Beta, reduces interleukin 1b, 612, 18, TNF alpha, and it produces T reg cell production, metabolically fiber fermentation. Converts polysaccharides to short chain fatty acids, and it produces vitamins b2, 612, and k2 lipid and glucose metabolism, the microbiome modulates gluconeogenesis, fatty acid oxidation. Insulin influences insulin sensitivity and lipid homeostasis. It reduces chronic disease states, particularly obesity. It actually regulates GOP. One decreases inflammation and supports energy balance, cardiovascular health is implied with a healthy microbiome. With that creates vasodilation, reduces blood pressure and TMA Oh in the spinal column and nervous system, vagus nerve stimulate signaling is smooth with a healthy microbiome, it improves mood and cognition, and it stimulates tryptophan metabolism and serotonin production in the GI tract, short chain fatty acids break down fiber to absorbable form. They regulate cholesterol and fat absorption, and they convert primary to secondary bile acids. What happens when you have a dysbiosis? So as you can see here, this is over here on the left. This is a normal We can get a personalized microbiome this way, this way. The FDA has sort of stuck its nose in the way and regulated only for C difficile there are strict donor screening protocols, and there's a lack of standardization. And so the mechanism of action eliminates dysbiosis, reduces inflammation, enhances the gut brain barrier, and it's useful for leaky gut mental health disorders and skin disorders. This is a just a summary of the intestinal biomarkers that we discussed here. This is sort of just as your sort of your takeaways to put next to your your desk, if you want to use them, if you want to use that. Here's the factors that influence the microbiome that we've discussed, genetics, living environment, dietary habits, physical exercise, concommeric diseases, supplementation, pre Pro and post biotics. This is your cortisol excess on this is your healing for that, and this is your four R's. And I want to thank you all, and we have, you know, we always want to say, My doctor said there's no evidence of it, fill in the blank. And so for the microbiome, we have 173 references. And okay, it's over. Go home. Questions, is anybody still there? We're here. We're just, we're just so baffled and amazed. There's so much mind blowing and intense. Agree, highly. Agree, that's what Doctor klatz always says. So now I have a new topic to discuss when I see patients in a nursing home, look at their skin and not about their constipation problems. I've told you that before, right? I've told you that anytime you've heard any of my, my, my, you know, female hormone lectures or testosterone for heat lectures, I've told you, I've told you guys all that before. So, yeah, that's how you It's like your litmus paper test. Yeah, I see there's some messages and whatnot you want to you want to read them, or you want me to read Yeah? Awesome. Most of them are John's, but I have some questions on my John Burgess, yeah, okay. He was plugging for the he put pictures up there. Well, good morning. We only have 30 days prior to the event. I have to have all people, names, that type of thing. You didn't give us a whole lot of notice here? No, I usually we get a year to pull this off. I have one month. Why is it so? Why is it so important to get that date? Doc, before I die, dude, I just want to get the shit done. You're telling me, after June 1, you're dying. Is that? Is that? No, I just have a had a reminder about short life is I want to go ahead and get this done, and also it's opportunistic, John, I didn't give you permission to die, so don't even think about it. Yeah, you're not allowed. You're mediators, and it becomes a vicious cycle. Intestinal permeability refers to the barrier function of the intestinal mucosa.

Speaker 1  39:23
right? Well, Bill, already, there's one here. I

Bill Clearfield  39:27
think I got I think I got it backwards. Doctor at a bajo I said, Does akermansia increase with age? No, it decreases with age and and it to reduce obesity, we need to increase acromancy. I got that backwards, but low and high, yeah, isn't good. Both are bad. One thing on Zonulin. Zonulin, if you're measuring the actual and endotoxemia. Why is this important? Well, the intestinal barrier has a dual function. It provides a protective barrier against external stimuli, and functions in an active and as inactive and passive transport. Disease pathogenesis, we get increased epithelial permeability. It's a crucial primary or secondary event in the pathogenesis of atopic, inflammatory and atherosclerotic disease. Entities Associated Disorders included Irritable Bowel Disease, infectious, effective, infectious and metabolic disorders and associated with a dysfunctional intestinal barrier. There's an autoimmune connection. Increased intestinal permeability leads to the translocation of macromolecules and the initiation of the autoimmune spectrum. And restoring a healthy function of the intestinal barrier can halt this autoimmune process. Factors that impair the intestinal barrier, includes stress, infections, again, the dysbiosis, which is an imbalance in gut microbiome, inflammatory situations and poor diet, will also impact gut integrity. What are the triggers? And the triggers of dysbiosis include food allergies and sensitivities and intolerances, stress, infection, inflammation, systemic diseases, impaired digestion, toxins, nutritional insufficiencies and medications. It results in allergy, food allergies and insensitivities, malnutrition and increased uptake of toxins and lipopolysaccharides. Put it all together, we get an elevated toxic virgin burden and antigenic burden. We get an immune activation and systemic disease. Nutritional support for the intestinal barrier includes any inflammatory foods. This is the multi colored vegetables, fruits and Omega three, rich foods that help restore the intestinal barrier, probiotic rich foods, which are fermented foods like yogurt, kefir, sauerkraut, that support beneficial gut bacteria. Prebiotic fibers. Of these are your soluble fibers that feed the beneficial bacteria, and we like L glutamine a lot. This is an amino acid that serves as fuel for intestinal cells and supports repair lifestyle changes for gut barrier health, stress management, proper hydration, regular exercise and mindful eating, which is slow, thorough chewing and relaxed meals that improve digestion and reduce stress on the intestinal barrier. So Dr. Burgess put the telephone put the cell phone away, put the TV away and pay attention to what you're doing.

Bill Clearfield  42:54
those. There's a couple of companies. There's one called fluids i.io and they, they make both of those in that in those bundles, so just makes it a little easier. So, how does accurate manage to increase with aging? Are we not deficient? Oh, you did answer that. No, I said that. I had that backwards. Okay, gotcha just a few minutes ago, right? I had it backwards. It decreases with aging, and it increases obesity when you lose it. So what about how does Himalayan salt help with digestion? I'm going to pass on that one. I'm not really sure. Did you get that in your Yeah, in the email, no, that's in the email. Let me, well, let me, let me try to chime in, because I did. I think this was from your I saw that in your slides that you pulled up, so I know that Himalayan salt actually adds sodium to the stomach, so that actually stimulates gastrin production, thus increasing HCL production. So this is actually now basic aiding your digestive functions along with your pancreatic enzymes, and that's why, again, it's not something that you would use as a go to just because, of course, if you have hypertension problems, that's not definitely a good way to do it. You have digestive enzymes down in betaine hydrochloride. To do that, another one would be the difference between DGL and plain licorice. Well, the glycerinated Licorice has the the glycerin taken out. Plain licorice has the glycerin left in. Um, the glycerinated Licorice has a tendency to create hypertension in patients. So you want the Okay, and the deglossated will come in a chewable form, sorry. And the the licorice plain is something used for adrenal fatigue, so low cortisol and then, yes, and the other one definitely. The DGL is for, like, the lining the mucosa repair, for gi interventions. It's really GL is more for the upper upper GI, right, right? Another one here. What is the difference between primary and secondary bile acids that you you mentioned. I'm going to pass on that one for now too.

Unknown Speaker  45:42
So what I'm

Bill Clearfield  45:44
a little I'm a little spin out here, though, that's okay. So, so

Speaker 5  45:47
department of bile acids actually are synthesized in the liver. And this is, of course, from cholesterol, and this is your colic acid, keto Deoxycholic acid, and these are the one that emulsifies fats. Secondary bile acids are usually formed when the gut bacteria now interacts with the primary bile acids in the intestines, thus converting them to the secondary. So the secondary is more for actually, it's not it's less. It's not digestion of fat anymore, but it's more for gut microbiome signaling and inflammation regulation. So that's what I remember in relation to that. What about Euro, lithium eight? Is there a significance when you mentioned about, I guess, the probiotic or a postbiotic? I think this is from the product called Mito pure. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  46:43
Again, is asking me these questions? I don't know the answers.

Speaker 5  46:50
Yeah. So you're in the thin A is a gut microbiome metabolite, and this is produced when the gut microbiome interacts with, specifically, pomegranates, berries and walnuts, and they produce, allege, 10s and allergic acid. And their function is actually when released, it's autophagy, meaning it removes the average mitochondria and also increases on studies of Mito pure they have increased muscle strength, especially for the elderly who uses it. So those are the two claim to fames of urolithin a, okay, this one is a common question. I send you

Bill Clearfield  47:26
to school, huh? Sent you to school. Yeah,

Speaker 5  47:31
no, no, just, just, just recall. Anyway. So this is an interesting one. Antifungals can that disrupt microbiome because we always know antibiotics can disrupt

Bill Clearfield  47:45
the microbiome. I think that's a plus minus. The answer is, it may. But you know, if you, if you have the fungals there, then then they're necessary. So I think, I think it's, you know, you just have to monitor it. Because yes, the answer is yes, they can, right? But, you know, again, you have to use them properly. So, you know, you don't want to just go throw in, you know, any fungals into the mix, just because, well, you know they gotta. They gotta, you know, Gi, you know symptoms. Okay, you have to know what you're treating. Okay. Well,

Speaker 5  48:20
one of the most common ones that you mentioned always in your I guess mold protocol is right, yeah, so I think that's where we usually I mean, use, I use that most of the time. And I do agree with you, just because we have to, we have to remember, we have also have fungal, normal flora, as you mentioned in your lecture, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  48:42
certainly a little bit is is normal. So right,

Speaker 5  48:45
right. So that's why, yes, you do have killing effects of normal microbiome, especially fungal species in your gut. And thus, yeah, that's why saccharomyces boulardii should be used, also when you're using intraconaz. And yeah, Nystatin, I think, is the weakest one that does not kill the microbiome bacteria, but the other ones for Corona, Zol the stronger epithelium, B usually they do that too. What is this? You mentioned about Casey and gliomorphin? Mm, hmm,

Bill Clearfield  49:23
yeah, these, these are sort of byproducts of, of the of gluten, and they turn into opioid like substances. So, you know, you're, you're getting a little bit of a, you know, a drug effect

Unknown Speaker  49:36
from, you're, like, always high, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  49:40
which maybe is not a thing John,

Speaker 5  49:43
maybe it's a cheap way to get all drugged up. You don't need to get opiates anymore.

Bill Clearfield  49:48
Just get you some white bread and you're all set. Right, right. See, we don't

Speaker 5  49:53
we don't have to shoot things up remains anymore. Here's a curious question, I think, why does increase progesterone promote listeria?

Bill Clearfield  50:08
Again, I think it creates the environment for it. It's the gives it the proper pH, and it gives it the proper, you know, nutrients to get an overgrowth in listeria. So I've not seen very often, but you know, it's, you know, it's one of those, you know, infections that that happens in utero. So it's thought from, again, from excessive progesterone. So alright,

Speaker 5  50:36
I remember halasa chiming in on this. Remember, he likes to always talk about th one to th two, right? So this one, I think he chimed in saying that as th two, you need to be in that stage when you're in during pregnancy to protect the fetus. You don't want to be th one, because it's going to attack the fetus. So when you're in th two, you don't have that intracellular protection now for listeria, because that's an intracellular infection, and majority of this would be like, I think raw milk, right? So, and progesterone is also highest the third trimester of pregnancy, and that's where you're basically more prone to to get those. So see, I got something from the great Dr halasa Here.

Bill Clearfield  51:25
I never understand the th one and th two. Once he starts on that, I just kind of zone out. I don't know about the rest of you,

Speaker 5  51:33
it got me hooked on something. So I'm quoting him now. See, I

Bill Clearfield  51:38
know, I know, but I like I said, I you know, you know, I kind of love the guy to death, but sometimes he just, he's just too much.

Speaker 5  51:47
If he's here now, he'll be happy about he's

Bill Clearfield  51:51
not, not on here. And I don't know if he was on, but he was texting me while I was talking that, that he I got to put him on for our for he's got some sort of cancer thing he's doing. So, you know, then I was supposed, while I was talking, I was supposed to answer him so

Speaker 5  52:07
well, you know, he's a busy guy. He's a right place. I know, I think this one, the last one, how can fiber and prebiotics lower cortisol?

Bill Clearfield  52:20
Oh, reduces inflammation.

Speaker 5  52:24
So that's okay. So to add to that, of course, you lower down inflammation. Remember the gut brain connection, so you always have that vagus nerve connected to your to your gut, to your brain, to lower your inflammation, and your gut lowers down to production of or regulates the neurotransmitters of dopamine, serotonin and GABA, so definitely lowering down, also cortisol. Alright, that's everything.

Bill Clearfield  52:52
The link for the CME is here. I'm sorry, it's $50 they raised it. We don't get any money for this. You know, it goes right to them. And I don't know if Dr Halas gets any money for it, but it's kind of a secret. But here's the link for it. You can it's $50 now, which I guess is still not too bad, 30 was better. So there it is, next week, I got Doctor Tano. Is he on? I don't know. I haven't I haven't gotten the topic from him, but I got Doctor Tano next week and then our speaker a while ago. Okay, our speaker that was supposed to be on tonight will be on May 6. Okay, so this week, I am headed to Irvine for a conference on brain injuries and trans trans magnetic stimulation. And next week, I'm going to the American Academy of Medical acupuncture for I'm going to be doing endocrinology of acupuncture, so we're going to be treating hormonal insufficiencies and excesses with acupuncture treatments. So anybody's interested in that. You know, it's in Pittsburgh, of all places. So, and what's happening with, I didn't ask you, Doctor, what's, what's the tip of the week from, from doctor, weil, oh, Tip

Speaker 5  54:11
of the Week. Well, the good thing you, well, you lectured about the microbiome. So one of the things that I actually will be applying now in practice, would be just the use of saccharomyces boulardii. Why is that? It has been proven that it can actually be useful for antibiotic associate any type of diarrhea, antibiotic associated diarrhea travelers, diarrhea, C diff, diarrhea, even necrotizing enterocolitis, for for children. So if you're going to be using something, I know we always like our general probiotics, but put saccharomyces boulardii in any type of these conditions that I just mentioned, you won't go wrong. So

Bill Clearfield  54:54
I went through, you know, probiotics for specific entities, and saccharomyces boulardii was was on just about everyone, right?

Speaker 3  55:02
Yeah, right. The cool thing about it is it colonizes, you know, small intestine all the way down. So it's, it's, it's very unique in a in a single type of probiotic.

Speaker 5  55:15
So if you're going to go traveling, you always need to have, not lapiromide, well, sure, it brings up,

Speaker 3  55:22
well, never la paramide. Use bismuth, bismuth. You know, Pepto Bismol tablets, they're great to take, kills most of the enteric bugs. And you know, along with the probiotics, you're going to do well.

Speaker 5  55:44
So well, saccharis, actually, I never thought that was the star of the show. I always thought about lactobacillus before the bacteria, but

Speaker 3  55:53
the lactobacillus ll does have a lot of data on its support with, you know, diarrhea, multiple causes. But the cool thing about sac Baladi is it inactivates, you know, the the toxins, which is fabulous. So

Bill Clearfield  56:10
you stick with us. Dr Nario, you don't have to spend $35,000 with Dr Weil.

Unknown Speaker  56:18
Dr Gerber has something to say. All

Speaker 7  56:20
right, quickly. Hey, great show. Dr Clearfield, I may have missed it. What is your favorite stool testing company that you mentioned? Use diagnostic

Bill Clearfield  56:29
solutions. I use gi map.

Unknown Speaker  56:34
Okay? Solutions,

Bill Clearfield  56:36
yeah, gi map. And, you know, I use Rupa health, which is like an aggregate. They have all the, you know, they have like 30 different companies, all sorts of tests, you know, all sorts of functional medicine tests. And it's just easier to go through them than to have a have to make an account with each one of these companies. And the results all go into one place. So

Unknown Speaker  57:02
they've traveled. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  57:06
Okay, can I do

Speaker 5  57:07
some plug in? Yeah, sure. On Thursday, I'll be with Lisa tomati for a New Zealand presentation. So you guys want to join I'll be doing my this lipid email lecture. I think that's 3pm Pacific,

Bill Clearfield  57:26
alright, okay. Then, yeah, of course.

Speaker 5  57:29
We're going to be head to head, ammg and me and a 4m

Bill Clearfield  57:37
we'll have to meet up. Let's

Speaker 5  57:38
share the crowd then. So I'll be in, I think, West Palm, and you're in Miami, right?

Bill Clearfield  57:45
You'll have, yeah, you'll have a better, bigger crowd.

Unknown Speaker  57:49
Well, we like to share. So,

Bill Clearfield  57:53
okay, alright. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Doctor Quinn, you got anything from the research group.

Speaker 6  58:00
No, just no, nothing real quick, just what Dr Burgess is talking about.

Speaker 8  58:06
It'd be a great thing to support. This is something that nobody has done yet. I think it can be really interesting for everybody.

Bill Clearfield  58:15
Well, it's been been a couple years since, you know, I had my clock cleaned at the at the AOA. So

Unknown Speaker  58:23
are you still smarting from that? Yeah, a little

Bill Clearfield  58:26
bit. So, you know, every once in a while I got, I got a text message, alleged, I know it was just a form thing, allegedly, from the president of the AOA. How come I didn't renew my my membership? Yeah, and yeah, I get one of those, and it starts all over again, you know?

Unknown Speaker  58:43
Well, just send in your money and they'll be happy. Well,

Bill Clearfield  58:46
that was just for me last summer. It was Fourth of July. Last Fourth of July, I got one from one of their their political actions committee. How come the American Osteopathic society rheumatic diseases is the only, only subspecialty that didn't contribute to the to their pack. So I wrote a I wrote a DR Nario read the letter, but I didn't send it to him. He said it was too angry. I wrote it like a letter, and I thought

Unknown Speaker  59:13
it was great. Oh, you

Bill Clearfield  59:16
did see it? Yeah. I took it out. I took it out back to my fireplace out back and and burned it one coffee. I still have. I still have it, but

Unknown Speaker  59:27
therapy advise him to do,

Unknown Speaker  59:28
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  59:34
yeah, so, so, yeah, so, so that that's that's that, yeah, still smarting from that, and half a half a half a mind to send it back to the but I know it's just a form letter. So

Speaker 5  59:47
Oh, Doctor Bill, a message for our Filipino doctor is here. So us in the Philippines, we have a product called Yakult. I don't know if you're familiar with that, but this was part of your lecture. It's called, it has lactobacillus. She wrote a strain. So when I was a kid, my grandma always gives that to me to say that, hey, this will be good for your gut, since you have diarrhea and all these problems. There was a study done here in in the in the US, in the University of Arizona that they studied this lactobacillus ghirona strain. It doesn't work. So I mean, this just for the I guess my fellow doctors there in the Philippines that there was an actual study that showed this, that it does not have what it claims to have, so just FYI.

Speaker 8  1:00:35
Okay, good. So it was a placebo. I

Speaker 5  1:00:39
guess, I'm not sure it's just that the the act, because when you, when you go to the Philippines, the advertise, this is even a TV that it's the lactobacillus strain that actually gives the micro bio, bio good effect for it. So when I saw literature, and it was discussed to us that it's not really the one that does the unfortunately.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:05
Okay, great, John, if you want to do this off the line or not, I mean, I got this application for the for the for the whole here, I decide what, what to do with it so you're muted. I'll talk to you. Talk to you when we're done. Okay, everybody, Nice seeing you. I hope, I hope you learned something. I hope it wasn't too much information. And we'll have it up. We'll have the video up, and we'll have the slide show up on our website also, okay, so if you don't know what it is, it's aos rd.org, and you go go to webinars, also on aos rd, that all of the CME credits that you can get from the lectures from last April that have been that have been approved, are still there. The ones from they're only good for a year, so the ones from last April will be dropping off in another month. So okay, and that's that. Thank you, Doctor Nario, for being here. Joel, thank you, John Of course, and Doctor Quinn, everybody from the Philippines. Thank you for for attending as always. And I see, I think, that I see Dr.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:25
Tano is

Bill Clearfield  1:02:28
is on I think I have I have him for next week, and we'll get the topic. So, okay, good night everybody. And appreciate weeks time same station. Okay, thank you. all. Thanks.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai