Unknown Speaker  00:51
Hey, Doc, can you hear me? Yep,

Bill Clearfield  00:53
excellent. Here you go. How's it going? Going?

Speaker 1  00:58
Okay, see, make sure I got the right thing in that all. There we go.

Bill Clearfield  01:07
Okay, I got a, I got a, I got a thing for Social Security, for Pete. It's at my house. It came yesterday, so I think it's, it's the, you know, the earnings statement, because I got one too. It looks to say I didn't open his so, oh, okay, so I don't know what you want me to do with it. I mean, I could send, I can, you know, I could send it back, or you could just hold on to it for now. Okay, all right, when you coming home,

Speaker 1  01:43
hopefully soon. I'm still waiting on a meeting with Matthew, my therapist. Admit, okay, got it. It's a little different this time. I mean, thanks. Is now streaming live, okay? Multi. Speaker view, huh? No, sorry, gallery view. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  02:11
Better than the other one. They got like a new they have a new view. It looks like

Bill Clearfield  02:18
mine looks the same. Johnny B looks like he's, he's bunked in for the winter there. Yeah, man,

Unknown Speaker  02:25
a gift from Africa, handmade.

Bill Clearfield  02:28
They need, they need these in that those in Africa,

Speaker 2  02:31
yeah, well, that's where they make all this shit, in South America. And we're, we're attacking South America and Africa after, hey, what I've been trained to do with insurgency and counter insurgency, tac 130, 52 years ago. Now we're finally doing it, man, it's happening.

Bill Clearfield  02:49
There you go. Okay, so it only took, yeah, they practiced for 52 years, huh?

Speaker 2  02:55
I think that's the game. Anyway, the hat comes from a lot of Dr tannos bravery. He wants to do some things at Burkina Faso, if you guys didn't know that. And there's all kinds of State Department warnings. Don't, don't deal with it. But anyway, he's, they're trying to save lives over there. And his, well, we don't want that. No man, he does, and so does Dimitri.

Bill Clearfield  03:23
What are they subversives?

Speaker 2  03:26
Nah, it's all what they do with the gold mines and the oil there, and yeah, and so they need to be detoxed with heavy metal detox, and Dimitri has the key to that, and Tano has the brains. I Right? And and the leader, if you don't know about, you know about the leader there, the leader Ibrahim, or a he's like,

Bill Clearfield  03:52
like, like, like, fearless leader. And bar is bad enough.

Speaker 2  03:58
The fearless leader has had 20 attempts on his life, and he's just brave and honest. So that's why Tana wants to talk to him, so would others. But anyway, lot of stuff going on now. Okay, yeah, so now I'm trained to do I'm well trained to do all that stuff. I'm just too damn old to do it. That's a little creaky, aren't you? It is creepy. Yeah, it's a good word for it. Anyway, the South American guys with Dr glavinovitch want to do a North American, South American meeting. We can decide where and when that should be, but I think everybody's in favor of it, and that way we could do something peaceful with what's happening down there. And we already have our research project with our group going on in Roatan Honduras. And you know,

Bill Clearfield  04:59
everybody likes Reno. You know,

Speaker 2  05:02
I'm I'm for Reno. If you want to do it, we have to figure out if you want to do an East Coast, West Coast, coast thing. I talked to Seth cuento, and he thinks South Carolina might be a good place to gather. Maybe Florida is that Hilton Head. That's what we were looking at. So but we have a lot of our team is in Florida, so that wouldn't be so far away. Well, we could go to Florida. Well, that's the idea, and you've talked about that before. You want to go Miami. Is that a good one I have?

Bill Clearfield  05:36
I have three trips to Miami coming up in the next four months.

Speaker 2  05:39
So is that a good enough place to do it? Well, you know,

Bill Clearfield  05:44
we do what ammg we do at the Doral National Golf Club. That place is absolutely spectacular, and price is usually pretty right too.

Speaker 2  05:54
So Well, I'll tell you, just because we won't have another opportunity like this, there is one, only one electromagnetic field protection zone in the United States, and it's Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, yeah, and that one is in, that one is in West Virginia.

Bill Clearfield  06:13
It's about, it's not Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania,

Speaker 2  06:17
I can't remember. It's 100 or 1000 miles of Radio Free Zone. I'm telling you, you can't have cell phones, communications, anything else there. So if you're interested in electromagnetic fields, you can block it with this or that, or you can go to the only place in the US that has it right now, currently, I'll tell you, there's 300 acres as a resort that was started there about 30 years ago, 40 years ago, okay? And they definitely, and they created it there to see what would happen if you put human beings and the natural, electromagnetic, free environment, that place is first.

Bill Clearfield  06:57
You mean, you mean, like, like, what human beings had for 99.999% of their whole existence, right? Not the last 20 years.

Speaker 2  07:06
That's correct. So if we wanted to do research on electromagnetic fields, this place with about 20,000 square feet, maybe 20 rooms, all kinds of good stuff, with the farm, everything we're doing, you know here, it's for sale for, I think, three and a half million, 300 acres. So we should

Bill Clearfield  07:27
think, you know, I think we should tap our research guys for that. Dr Quinn, you got it? You got a couple couple of million laying around for electromagnetic free zone, yeah.

Speaker 1  07:39
Send it. Yeah, yeah. Where do I send it?

Speaker 2  07:42
Send it to me. Okay, if I and I'll and I'll send it to the guys, and we'll get this going. It's a perfect place if we were going to do lifestyle research and electromagnetic study of any kind, because everybody's talking, but you don't see that much action. But I definitely know there's action going on, because that's it. All of the action was going out in Nevada, area 51 with your with your military and your generals, and the Jade one

Bill Clearfield  08:15
in Arizona. Say, what? There's an area 51 in Arizona. Oh, I

Speaker 2  08:21
don't Nevada. I should have known. I think the meeting,

Bill Clearfield  08:24
it's a museum in Las Vegas, right? I mean,

Speaker 3  08:29
well, there's a place here called area 15, that's a take off

Bill Clearfield  08:32
on it. Yeah, yeah. It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a nightclub, right?

Speaker 3  08:37
Yeah, well, it's an entertainment thing. I don't even know how to

Unknown Speaker  08:41
describe it.

Speaker 2  08:42
Well, we well, when we were doing our latest and greatest here, 2030, years ago, the generals at Area 51 were supplied by the electromagnetic frequency Scalar Wave induction that every general underground war. So if there wasn't some effectiveness, you wouldn't have every general underground wearing these things. Anyway. We should do some study on it, because it's mostly

Bill Clearfield  09:13
Dr Nario,

Unknown Speaker  09:16
yes, present for the

Bill Clearfield  09:18
first wellness tip of the tip of the of the

Unknown Speaker  09:22
year. Way to start

Bill Clearfield  09:26
regalis with something from the integrative medicine world that we don't

Speaker 4  09:32
know sure the start of the year, right? Okay, so today we're going to be talking about our one of the favorite supplements, maybe for me, collagen, so it's everywhere your patients are taking them for skin, joints, hair, bones, and occasionally, because a podcast maybe told them that it is the Wonder supplement of aging. As clinicians, the real question is not, does collagen work, or is it really which Collagen For which tissue or what dose, and does the source really actually matter? Today, we'll cut through the marketing and focus on actually the clinical relevance of this. So collagen supplements do not turn into skin, joints or hair directly after drinking it, they're broken down into bioactive peptides, primarily glycine proline and hydroxyproline, containing fragments, which acts as signals that simulates fibroblasts, chondrocytes and even osteoblasts. We're going to talk about that today. Think of collagen as a messenger, not a building material, or as I tell patients, you're not becoming a cow, you're borrowing its amino acids. So the main types you'll hear about would be type one, skin, hair, nails and bones, type two, cartilage and joints type three, usually for skin elasticity and blood vessels. There are actually 10 types. So there's only three that I want you to understand, so there's no confusion for today. So the one that has bulk of the study would be bovine collagen, which contains type one and three, strong evidence for skin elasticity, bone density and general connective tissue support most cost effective and closest to human collagen patterns. So it's one of the this is one of the most cited human RCT, supporting bovine derived collagen peptides for skin aging, which is actually the study of progress around 2014 wherein he found that a 2.5 to five grams per day collagen peptide usage for eight weeks increases skin elasticity, lowers down wrinkle volume, increased dermal collagen density and affects a persistent even after discontinuation. So one that's relevant for our presentation today would be for a bone density and osteoblast activity. And this is from Koenig on 2018 so five grams per day collagen peptides for 12 months, increases BMD at the femoral neck and spine, increase bone formal formation markers, or p1, and P, and even lowers bone degradation markers. The other types, which is access, actually porcine, which usually contains type one and three, structurally very, is very similar to human collagen. So that's why it's widely used in medical wound matrices, even clinically solid, but often under labeled in even our supplements. The other one would be Marine, which is just only containing type one. So these are smaller peptides, good absorption, best, mostly for skin hydration and fine wrinkles. Limited evidence, though, for joints or bone often more expensive per gram. The other ones are chicken collagen, eggshell collagen, but the clinical Pearl here really is once collagen is hydrolyzed, dose, consistency and peptide profile matter more than the animal species. So what actually works in clinical practice? It's going to be 10 to 20 grams per day of hydrolyzed collagen peptides, minimum eight to 12 weeks, for a measurable benefit. And oh and again, we want the CO factors around such as adequate vitamin C, zinc, copper as essential for collagen synthesis. And again, common failure point patients sprinkle only half a scoop in coffee twice a week and declares it did not work because of under dosage. Again, bottom line for us clinicians, collagen is not fluff. It's a signaling therapy. Match the source, the tissue goal, set realistic timelines and remind patients collagen supports repair. It doesn't replace lifestyle. So that's our Tip of the Week for today.

Bill Clearfield  13:32
You know you're getting better at this?

Speaker 4  13:34
Oh, thanks. I've just been doing this for few months, right? Yeah, you

Bill Clearfield  13:38
know you get better at it. We can ask our speaker, because I'm sure he's got some. John, you got any experience with collagen?

Speaker 5  13:46
I do. That was an excellent presentation. Dr Nerio, so much so, in fact, I formulated, this is my product for my company, MBI, types one and three, collagen, bovine derived collagen, of collagen, hydrolyzed collagen, peptides per scoop. Clinically, one of the complaints that that I heard a lot of and why I went and created my own formula, and you're spot on with the dosages. I think your review of the research is was excellent and perfect. And I've come to to view collagen peptides as, just like you mentioned, signaling molecules and signaling peptides, and it is an oral peptide therapy, in my opinion, with respect to the complaints though, that I heard and why I went and developed my own is smell, taste and solubility. Those are the three complaints that I would hear frequently, so the one that I created is 99.9% soluble only as 0.1% insoluble particles 10 grams the clinical trial, or exceeding the clinical trial doses of 10 grams of hydrolyzed collagen per scoop, no smell, no flavor, dissolves without stirring.

Speaker 4  14:57
So yeah, good thing you brought that up, John, because a lot of collagens actually are not third party tested. And as we all know, lots of heavy metals. So if you get it from a reputable company like yours, definitely these are things that you for sure, check and have good quality with.

Speaker 5  15:14
Yeah, we, you know, the FDA does not require finished products to be tested for metals, but we do that with all of our all of our products, not only the raw materials come tested, but but finished products we test before release, just to verify, make sure that we're, you know, proposition 65 compliant, and it's really a clean, clean product. So you know, that's available on fullscript Emerson Doctor supplement store direct from our website for, you know, wholesale accounts and that sort of thing. But I think you did a great job with the research.

Bill Clearfield  15:42
Okay, well, there you go.

Speaker 5  15:45
There are no fracture outcomes. Just say that and that that that's a nice segue into the talk tonight.

Bill Clearfield  15:50
You want me to introduce you or, yeah, yes, please, yeah, people. Okay. Well, actually, Dr newstad, if you want with us, I mean that the crowd we all know you. And he been with us a couple of times, and he's been a big supporter of us. John is a naturopathic physician, researcher, author, entrepreneur known for evidence based strategies to improve bone health, and as you heard all about collagen and reduce fracture risk, he's the founder of and president of nutritional biochemistry Inc and NBI pharmaceuticals. He started NBI in 2006 after finding that commercially available supplements did not match the nutrient doses shown in the clinical trials, limiting real world clinical effectiveness. Doctor Neustadt has received multiple us, FDA orphan drug designations for investigating natural products as potential treatments for rare diseases. He hosts delivering health podcast and serves on the bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation corporate advisory round table. Well, he also, your mother must be proud. She is from alive, just that, just just that, bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation, corporate advisory roundtable. I don't know what that is, but it sounds really impressive. He has leadership roles in the California natural doctors Association. He's authored four books, dozens of articles and osteoporosis, 100 published research reviews, more than 100 velsia recognized him as a top 10 cited author worldwide for his work. His most recent book is over his right shoulder there, but we're looking at it. Fracture proof your your, your by the look to see if I had got the right shoulder there. Fracture proof your bones, a comprehensive guide to osteoporosis. So John again, thank you so much. And again, thank you. At a forum, you were quite helpful there, or at AMG, also your insights. We got to do those, you know, one on one away from the big crowd. So John,

Speaker 5  17:55
it's always great seeing you at those conferences too. Take it away. Connect with people. Thank you for the next

Bill Clearfield  17:59
time you're going to come to our conference next, when we're going to have a little bit better plan with a little bit better leeway, right?

Speaker 5  18:05
Definitely let me, let me know when it is and where it is. Okay. So the talk tonight is on osteoporosis testing. I'm not going to go so much into, you know, therapeutic or clinical strategies. Collagen, I think is a great supplement to use. It is not my first line, just to follow up on that conversation, A, because there's no fracture outcomes data, and B, because I prefer people get the amino acids from food, and I really want to work with them and improving their diet and getting enough protein so they can create their own collagen. But the collagen peptides do have good research on them for improving bone density. We're going to be talking about testing, though, primarily. So let me jump to that and share my screen here. I know there's questions at the end, if people have questions during it, I don't know. I know I've been here a few times. I don't require remember if that's okay or Not, Bill, but I'm fine with it. If people

Speaker 5  19:43
don you're mute. I've been muted the whole time. Wow. Thank you for letting me know. I said the most important stuff. It's all over with. Thanks everybody for coming Good night. Thank you. No, I was just saying, first of all, Bill, you didn't hear this. Thank you for the introduction. I collagen, just to follow up on what we said earlier. Is not my first line approach. I prefer people get it through diet, meaning get the the amino acids by eating protein. But it is a great supplement with good clinical trial data. My disclosures are here. As already mentioned, I have a dietary supplement company with collagen, and also with the clinical trial doses of MK four and d3 several variations of that line formula guaranteed not only to promote and improve bone density, but most importantly, to maintain bone strength. And that's really what this talk is about, is how to assess bone strength, and I'm going to look at different testing options and fracture risk, how to assess that. But with my products, they're guaranteed if somebody breaks a bone, we'll refund their money for all qualifying purchases between their bone density tests. So when you set aside all the confusing medical jargon, and let's you know, really want to hone in and focus on what's most important, let's get, you know, go through, cut through the noise, look for the signal, and when you do that. For me, at least testing becomes very simple. A test is only as valuable as its ability to predict fractures. Now, if I had a little asterisk there and an addendum, it would be, well, you know, there are patients also who really want to see numbers on a test move, and it may help with compliance for them to see that. So you know, that is another, I think, clinically justifiable reason to order a test. But I can tell you, the longer I've done this, the fewer tests that I do order so bone health can be evaluated in three main ways. The first is a physical exam that offers clues that may suggest bone loss and fracture risk. So I don't I want to not skip over that. I really want to spend a little bit of time with that and what tests you can do in office, quickly, easily, inexpensively or no cost at all, that can give you great information about somebody's fracture risk and their frailty to have a conversation with them. Because overall, one of the best results of testing is opening a door to a conversation to get people to be more involved in their own healthcare and more proactive. So then the second main way that bone health can be evaluated is through tests like DEXA, rems, quantitative, you know, CT, ultrasound, and then lastly, laboratory test, bone turnover markers, for example, and other tests. So I'm going to talk about each of those three categories a bit tonight, in the time that I have so physical exam. So this is for osteoporosis risk, and this is all, you know, standard stuff from Jama and other other medical journals. But if somebody's low weight, that's a risk for osteoporosis, if they're if they've lost height, you know, two centimeters in one to three years. One of the things I want, and you can read that list, I'm not going to read everything on every slide, but the thing that I think is missing a lot with people is the very last bullet point, and that is not conventionally recommended, and that is thinning skin. If somebody's skin becomes is thinning and is more friable. It tears more easily. You know that is a that could be a sign that they're also losing bone, because there's collagen in skin, there's collagen in bone, and it's when the bone collagen starts to degrade, the bone to become more fragile and weak, and they're losing bone mineral density also. So that could be a symptom or a sign, otherwise, a sign where somebody might want to get a DEXA scan or another test done. Screening rates generally are very low, and we're talking about over, like 95% of Medicare age population, which is the highest risk, aren't getting screened. But there are many other patients at risk, and barely any of them are getting screened. Patients who are on certain medications like SSRIs, SNRIs, proton pump inhibitors, they're not getting screened. And those are risk factors for osteoporosis. For every 19 women taking an SSRI now for one to five years, we expect one of them to fracture a hip, very dangerous prednisone people know about commonly but even common drugs like aromatase inhibitors, known to increase fracture risk, 20% of women on an aromatase inhibitor for five years are expected to fracture. Even those patients are not getting screened, per the guidelines with a baseline and follow up testing with cancer patients, screening rates are almost non existent for most, most cancer types.

Speaker 5  24:27
So there's, there's an online fracture risk assessment tool that people can can access. It can give them their 10 year fracture risk. And that is what is if you look at a bone density test, a DEXA test result, a report, at the bottom of many Most reports that I've seen is a 10 year fracture risk for major osteoporotic fractures, and that is based on the FRAX. So they take the age, sex, bone mineral density, a couple other risk factors, plug them into this tool, and it spits out in risk assessment. Now there are limitations to this, and that is that it doesn't capture many medications that are now known to destroy bone, like I mentioned already, except for prednisone. It does capture that. It also is not valid for people with on androgen and aromatase inhibitors, on androgen deprivation therapy, hematic, poetic stem cell transplant patients and others, and not applicable to younger than 40. Now, I do want to say that that it's important to to note on the dexus test when you get that fracture risk, 10 year fracture risk, I really bothers me the way that this is discussed with most patients, because it's very scary for them. And it's scary in the sense that it'll say, Oh, you have a 7% or 10% or 5% risk of a fracture in the next 10 years, and in the context of then having an abnormal test result, and in most conventional settings, the doctors are recommending us first line therapy right away. They get medications. I've even had many patients come to me scared that their doctors told them, if they absolutely, if they don't take the medication, that they're going to fracture. And the way that I look at those, the FRAX 10 year risk assessment at the bottom of those DEXA reports is I invert the number. Well, if there's a 7% chance that you're a 10% chance that some are 12% chance that somebody's going to fracture, well then the opposite is also true. It means there's a 90% chance that they're not going to fracture, or an 87% chance they're not going to fracture. And so I want to put those test results in the proper, correct perspective, to help patients calm down and really understand their options, that it is important, but it's not an emergency, and they have time to educate themselves and learn what they can do in terms of creating a holistic bone health program that makes sense for them to reduce their fracture risk. Medications may be part of that. That's a different that's a different presentation. So assessing fall risk. 95% of fractures occur because somebody falls. So it's really important clinically to evaluate somebody's strength and stability. So there are tests that have been validated, like walking speed and stability, those are independently linked to falls and fractures, even after adjusting for bone mineral density, slower walking speed, if people are slowing down and decreased mobility, are also associated with falls and fracture risks. And that's something that you can just ask a patient. It can be part of your intake form. You know have have have you slowed down in terms of how you how you're walking? In terms of patients, you can just assess them by watching them walk, greeting them and walking down the hallway with them. Is their gait irregular? Do they walk slowly? Are they hunched forward? How easily do they get up from a from a chair? Do they need assistance? Do they have to really push off the arms of the chair to stand up? Those are all clues, clinical clues that give you some idea of people's fall and fracture risk. And the American Association of Clinical Endocrinology, their guidelines recommend specifically lists impaired gait or balance as key risk factors for osteoporosis related fractures, and Jama also emphasizes walking speed is consistently lower among individuals who fall and gait and balance assessments are central to understanding somebody's fall and fracture risk. So please do not forget just about our clinical evaluations without needing even any labs or hardware, radiology reports, any of that so strong and steady means your risk is reduced. This is based on a 2005 study. If patients were strong and steady and they had no history of fractures or recent falls. Now, bone density test would only predict 5.3% of women and 4.3% of men less than 70 with osteoporosis who would later fracture a hip, which is the most dangerous type of fracture for those over 70, the predictive value went up 14 that DEXA then predicted 14.6% of women and 10.9 or 11% of men over 70 with osteoporosis, who would fracture her hip. But let that sink in for just a second. Most of the time, there is this univariate analysis that's done. They get a DEXA result, and it says that you have a t score of less than minus 2.5 and maybe it's minus three, minus 2.8 whatever it is. And you're told that you have this high risk for fractures, but there's usually not a multi variable, variable and variable analysis that's done, and if you're to factor somebody's risk for falling was low, that predictive value of a bone density test goes down. It's even less predictive of fractures. And yet that is almost predominantly what is tracked a bone density test result in clinical encounters, that is almost predominantly what patients are told to look at when it comes to their their fracture risk. So changing that discussion, I think, is really important for being more accurate when it comes to discussions with patients and their true risks. By itself, a bone density test, and this is a later slide, only predicts 44% of women with osteoporosis will fracture only 21% of men. So even that alone is not very sensitive or specific. When somebody is steady and strong on their feet, their risk of falling is low. That predictive value is even lower. Footwear. This is really important to reduce fractures and often overlook. Just ask your patients, what do they wear when they're in the house? Most of falls happen when somebody's in their house. For adults over 70, more than half of falls happened when they wore socks or without shoes or were bare feet. So researchers have studied this, and just walking barefoot or in socks increased the risk by 11.2 times compared to people wearing sneakers age 65 and older. And research researchers looked at another group of people, and the bottom line is that the average age of this third bullet point here, 78 years old who had fallen and fractured and had to have surgery, they were asked what they were wearing when they fell, and 72% were wearing socks slippers or were barefoot. So wearing slippers with open heels also predicted falls in elderly women, resulting in hospitalizations. So talk to pay, get, talk to your patients, and in terms of helping them reduce their risk of fractures at home, wearing indoor sneakers that lace up with good support is the best recommendation. They just wear them in the house and they lace up, it's going to give the best support. What about a one legged stand? So again, this has to do with with strength and stability. It's a validated assessment. There are two tests, the five and 10 second one legged stand test. It's a predictor, or assesses fall risk, functional decline, fractures and mortality. In the 10 legged stand test, one legged stand test is considered a better predictor of all cause mortality and loss of independence than the five second. But in the study of 1700 men and women, they're followed for almost 10 years, 95.3% of those 50 to 51 to 55 years old could stand on one leg for 10 seconds. But by the time they were 71 less than half could people who couldn't complete the 10 second one legged stand test had an 84% higher risk of dying compared to those who could so strength, stability and making sure in order to do that, they have to be doing some resistance exercises, but they have to have enough protein also to build muscle, and enough of the cofactors, enough of the micronutrients. So it segues really well into conversations about diet and exercise, women and men who are unable to balance on one leg just for five seconds had a 213% greater risk of falling and getting hurt than somebody who could and so that's something that you can just do in your office very easily, very quickly. Walking distance? There are tests for walking distance that are validated and widely recommended. There's the six minute walking test and the time up, Timed Up and Go test the challenges that they require equipment and assistance. For the six minute walking test, the patients walk as far as possible for six minutes, typically along a hallway. The total distance is then measured, Timed Up and Go, requires a chair of a specific height, a measuring tape and a timer. They're just more involved. But there's a simpler test that you can use, and that's just asking your patients a question. It can be part of your intake form, and that is, how well are they able to walk? About a half a mile, one kilometer, 0.6 miles. It was a study done in Australia, so it's in metric system, 200,000 women and men, 45 years and older, were just they were asked, Could they walk one kilometer? And then they were followed up for five years, until they experienced a fracture or they died. So they had to answer just three questions, does your health prevent you from walking one kilometer? Does your health prevent you from walking a half a kilometer? Does your health prevent you from walking 100 meters. So compared to volunteers who can walk the full one kilometer, those with limited walking ability, face to 32 to 219%

Speaker 5  33:51
that's a big range, but that's both are big risks, higher risk of fractures, regarding regardless of other known risk factors. So regardless of age, their weight, the history of falls or previous fractures. So it's an independent risk fracture. The more restricted their walking ability, the higher their risk. So really, the call out here, and the call really to here at the end here that you can see people who can't walk one kilometer face a much higher risk of fractures, regardless of other known risk factors. All right, DEXA. Let's dive into the DEXA test, because that is the gold standard. It's been the gold standard for decades. It's the test against which all other tests are prepared, are compared. You've got central and peripheral DEXA for diagnosis and treatment monitoring. It's the central DEXA that is recognized to be the the tool to use, the test to use, however, there are quite a few people for which a central DEXA scan is inappropriate. Anyone over 300 pounds, anyone with osteoarthritis of the spine or of the hips, where there are calcifications there, if there, if there are arterial calcifications, like abdominal aortic calcifications, those all interfere with the bone density test, even being too thin can give a false bone density test result. Peripheral DEXA, I'm not going to go too much in the technology, because we want to focus on fractures in the time that we've got, but it's all here. Interpreting the test scores is here. But the bottom line is for this that we know all the way from the 1990s that bone mineral density explains less than half the risk for hip fracture. So I already talked about that. The 44% statistic that I cited of elderly women who progress to fractures with a you know, bone density test only predicts 44% of women who will fracture. That was from 2008 and then a 2014 of analyst and Internal Medicine study concluded, quote, among persons receiving FDA approved osteoporosis pharmacotherapy, changes in bone mineral density are not good predictors of the anti fracture effect. I really want to drive that point home, because, again, the bone density test is what most doctors are focused on. It's what most patients are focused on. And when it comes to the clinical encounter, when they're taking an FDA approved pharmacological agent and their bone density goes up, the doctor is telling patients that they're protected, and the patients believe they're protected. And in fact, there's really not a strong correlation there. And they're not necessarily protected. Their fracture risk is not necessarily going down. And in fact, that's the whole reason why I got into this line of work to begin with, or this specialty, because my mother in law was on fossamax. She was doing a little bit of holistic stuff that I was helping her with, but she was on fossamax as well. Her physician had prescribed it, and her bone density was going up. And so she was happy, he was happy, and I was happy. And then she fell and fractured her hip, and I thought, something's wrong. And that's when I sort of discovered a lot of these data. That was in 2005 2006 even before the 2014 study came out. But this is not new information. It's just not being talked about and it's not being implemented clinically. So bone mineral density, in fact, only accounts for four to 28% of reduction. Percent of the reduction of vertebral fracture risk from FDA approved medications. So DEXA errors also have to realize there are a lot of DEXA errors that occur up to 90% of tests in one study contained one or more error related to data analysis or reporting incorrect positioning of patients, artifact or demographic error. So it's also test that's highly prone to errors. The best recommendation for DEXA tests is they're done, ideally on the same machine at the same radiology clinic each time to get the hopefully the most consistent results, or the results that are most comparable. So now there's a trabecular bone score that's available. It's an add on if the software for the DEXA scan can do it. Hologic machines have them, if there's a newer machine, they're probably going to have this, this feature on it, or the option for them to add the feature to do a trabecular bone score, and it looks more at bone quality of the lumbar spine overall. Though, when you look at a TBS, there's only modest improvement in fracture prediction. And there's a clinical trial 560 post menopausal women in France, they concluded that the TBS only added limited information on fracture risk prediction. This is Manitoba study, however, is the largest study. This is what's commonly cited when, when companies are promoting trabecular bone scores. And so I want to talk a little bit about this study. What they found, because there aren't many studies validating this technology, but this is the largest one. Is from Canada, over 29,000 patients. And what they found is that the combination they're looking at, you know, again, low bone mineral density plus a low trabecular bone score, you have 12.1% had spinal fractures, 16.3% had fractures, and 15.3% had femoral neck fractures. Now, in the bone mineral density was normal, and they're they had high trabecular bone score, which is good. Their fracture risk, the relative risk was much lower. You know, the risk was much lower. The actual absolute risk, 2.2% had a spinal fracture, 1.9 had a hip fracture, and 1.7% had a femoral neck fracture. So this is oftentimes cited as as as the justification for a trabecular bone score. And people get really excited when it improves, and that's great. We want to see it improving there. There are no outcome studies at this, looking at this and showing if we improve a trabecular bone score, does fracture risk also decrease? I think it probably does. But just to be clear about what research exists, we don't have that. But even so, when you're looking at this, importantly, just to put the data in there, in there, in what I believe is their correct context, that you know you had 12.1% of those patients had a spinal fracture. Let me go to my laser pointer here. So here, 12.1% had with low bone mineral density and low that means that 87.9% did not fracture similarly. 16.3% had a hip fracture. That means that 83.7% did not fracture their hip that you still want, I still want to improve it, and I still want to make sure that we're reducing their fracture risk overall. A lot of these studies, very few of them also look at lifestyle factors. They don't look at what some of the other studies before did, meaning their fall risk. So if their fall risk was low, if they were steady and stable on their feet, like that previous study that looked at stability and fall risk and DEXA scan, you know, what would, what would the results be? Then we just, we don't know. But again, my point here is, let's not overestimate the tests for patients. It's just and all the tests, no matter what you run, are just small pieces of a much larger clinical puzzle when it comes to fracture risk, biomechanical Computed Tomography CT scans can be good because if the radiology department can repurpose existing CT scans, abdominal CT scans can be repurposed, it can save the patient time and some money, and they don't have to get another test. There are conversion guidelines for converting, converting CT tests to DEXA, t score and Z score equivalence, or t score equivalents. It is an alternative, or considered an alternative to osteoporosis screening as an option. But what about well, for advantages, it's not affected by artifacts like DEXA, so that's not an issue. It's accurate in patients with extremely high or low BMI, and for Medicare patients. And that was just the most recent data I could find. Is 2007 you know, 10% had received an abdominal, pelvic CT scan at that point. So you know, if they already had one done, they can be re repurposed. It's also more sensitive than DEXA detecting osteoporosis. But let's be clear, that's detecting osteoporosis, that's not necessary, that's not predicting fractures. Those are two different variables. The disadvantage is it's a much higher radiation. So if you look at predictive FRAC ability to predict fractures, there have been 13 studies that have looked at the ability of QCT to predict fractures. Hip fractures, more specifically, which is the most dangerous type of fracture. If a woman fractures her hip, there's up to a 36% chance that she'll be dead within a year. So really, hip fractures are a real are the biggest risk, although we don't want to get spinal fractures either. 11 studies show predictive value equivalent to bone mineral density. Studies at predicting fractures, two studies showed superior predictive value. Both rolled in men. So maybe for men, it might be more predictive, but it's still unclear to me. I don't think there's enough data to definitively know that the bottom line overall, QCT is not superior to DEXA predicting fractures in post menopausal women with osteoporosis.

Speaker 5  43:02
What about ultrasound? So ultrasound uses, as the name implies, as I'm sure everybody knows, sound waves to look at quality of bone the United States, Preventative Services Task Force conclusion, it has a similar accuracy to central DEXA scans in one study, broadband ultrasound attenuation and men, it was not significantly associated with fracture risk. So the USPSTF conclusion in terms of accuracy to central DEXA, that's for predicting fractures. It does offer a low cost alternative to assessing bone health. It's portable, it's more easily accessible in primary care then DEXA scan and CT scans, and is radiation free. Now that said, Am I still on that? Yeah, that said, there is no standard in terms of each company's machine and how it's calibrated, what the cutoff values are, and so every machine the manufacturer has to validate their technology and their cut off values with studies, and so you've got to make sure that the machine you're using, if you're going to use ultrasound, has been validated, and you have to make sure that it's calibrated correctly, because the quantity of ultrasound does not measure bone density, the definition of osteoporosis, according to the World Health Organization based on a t score. You know that does not apply, but it does have practical benefits, but it definitely does not have any superior benefits when it comes to fracture risk prediction. So here are the validation studies I mentioned. There's no consensus as to which device, measurable, measured, variable and cut offs are best. Therefore, if you're going to use it, you've got to verify the device has been suitably validated against DEXA. And here's the fracture risk. It can predict fractures of the femur, vertebrae and other sites. The results were at least comparable to and similar to DEXA, but not superior. So Right? Rems. I'm going to spend a little more time on rems, because that's become a lot more popular. I get a lot more questions these days about rems. So it's a type of ultrasound, radio frequency, Echo, graphic, multi spectrometry, which I have to look up every time. For some reason I can't remember that really long name. I just call it rems. First became approved by the FDA in 2018 It was developed in Italy. And what it does is it sends, it's an abdominal ultrasound, and then there's also hip ultrasound that can be done, and it looks at the quality of the bone. It's been validated against the desks of tests and found to be similar in evaluating osteoporosis risk, again, osteoporosis risk and fracture risk are two different things. Just I keep wanting, I want to go back to that and make sure that's really clear. So what about fracture risk? To date, there have only been two validation studies that have been run. The first study showed no difference. It was age 30 to 70. Results indicated rems was as effective as DEXA at predicting fractures, right? So that's that's okay, that's good. It's not superior. Nothing better than DEXA. It's just as equally as valuable. Now the second study, however, combined rems with what they're calling a fragility score. So they take the ultrasound one and they send the sound waves to the bone, and it compares the scatter of those sound waves to a database of healthy bone and the vertebrae and the hip, that is, that are within certain 10 year increments of 20 to 30 year old, 30 to 40, 4050, etc, and of the Same sex. So 30 to 40 year old men, 30 to 40 year old women, it's being compared to somebody in this age ranges, or whatever the patient's age is. If they're 65 that would be a 60 to 70 year old. Now, what they showed is that in this study, this second validation study, that 34.8% of women who experienced a lumbar fracture and 6.3% of those experienced a hip fracture. That means, over five years, the REMS was be able to predict or detect that those percentages, if you remember from the previous slide on DEXA, and the predictive value of DEXA from that 2008 study, 44% of women with osteoporosis will fracture. So it actually showed that of the showed worse predictive value in this of fractures than odexa. And for men, the test was able to break 33.8% who would have a lumbar fracture and 10.7% who would have a hip fracture. For DEXA, that 2008 Annals of Internal Medicine study had a 21% fracture prediction for men, so the REMS may actually be better for men at predicting fractures than a dexam. Again, I think we need more research, but here are the numbers in terms of fracture predictions. Now, importantly though, the fragility score comes into play because 94.5% almost 95% did not fracture their spine for women when their fragility score is less than 37.2 so lower the fragility score, the better. 99% did not fracture their hip when their fragility score was less than 32 so I think that's really great data to share with patients, if they get a rems, meaning, if they're the value of this might be to show who's not going to fracture even more than who's going to fracture, meaning that, if you their their fragility score is less than 32 you know, 31.9 30, 31.8 and lower. You know, there's a really good chance, according to this study, that they're not going to fracture in the next five years. That was the duration of the study, five years for men, you know, similarly, excellent, excellent results, slightly different, fragility score, cut off values, but also excellent at predicting who is not going to fracture. The rems, there are some benefits to rems over DEXA, no ionizing radiation. Many patients from odexa, t scores invalid, like premenopausal women, pregnant women, children, men, under 50, they could benefit from a rems test. Also for FRAX. A FRAX, the online, online tool is not valid for patients younger than 40, but rems can be used for those patients. It's also less expensive than in DEXA, however, insurance is not covering a rems test yet, and so it's still going to be out of pocket for patients. So in that sense, DEXA is going to be a lot more accessible at this point to many more patients. Rems is portable, so there's greater access. It can be in somebody's office or at health fairs. Now that said, we also don't know if that fragility score improves, meaning, if they have a higher fragility score and then it goes down, does their fracture risk also go down? If you remember from the DEXA test, an improvement in bone density, at least with the FDA approved medications, is not an indicator that their fracture risk is is improving. So do we know that, if the REMS test score improves, is their fracture risk also going down? We don't know that data. It just doesn't exist yet. That study has not been done similarly, like the risk for falls. You know, if they had done a multi variable analysis and looked at fall risk, if somebody's fall risk was low, was the REMS also just as predictive as as it would show in this study. So that also has not been done, and I want to go back to that over and over, because the risk for fractures is really multi variable. To serve our patients as best as possible and help them reduce their fracture risk as best as possible, it's crucial to have a holistic approach and a holistic understanding of what we can do to help them, including how we can improve bone micro architecture and bone strength, but also reducing fall risk and other risk factors like taking them off of medications that are damaging bones, or getting them on safer medications if they need to stay on them on a medication to reduce their fracture risk. Lab testing. So I'm a big fan of vitamin D testing. What we know is that the maximum hip fracture reduction is associated with vitamin D levels of 30 to 44 nanograms per milliliter, and that's much lower than a lot of people are shooting for, myself included for for more systemic immune health, 6070, some people 80 nanograms per milliliter. But most people can get to that 30 to 44 nanograms per milliliter by taking 2000 I use a vitamin d3 per day, so I'm also a big fan of testing for vitamin d3 it's also been shown to reduce the risk of falls. It's been linked to fall reduction in that same lab test result range of 30 to 44 nanograms per milliliter, neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio. This is, this is, this is an inflammatory markers associated with hip fracture risk and older women. And so if you end up doing a neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio that can give you them, give you a sense of understanding of is there fracture risk elevated. And so what you're looking at in terms of osteoporosis as well, is that if they're neutral to fill, the lymphocyte ratio of 3.17 or higher, that's associated with osteopenia, 4.68 or higher is associated with osteoporosis. So there's something going on systemically with inflammation and activation of immune activation and increased cytokines, and so it can just give you another clinical tool to evaluate and treat the patients try and get get that inflammation calmed down,

Speaker 5  52:34
bone turnover markers look they can be a useful adjunct. I don't love them. I don't routinely recommend them, because there's so many limitations in their clinical utility, and there's a lot of pre analytical variables that complicate their interpretation. So there are two main categories of bone turnover markers. Ones are bone resorptive markers, the other bone turnover markers. And then there are sub categories like matrix products released during bone resorption or formation, like CTX, CT low peptide, and then cellular product secreted commensurate with that sort of the activity of osteoblast and osteoclast, but as a predictor of bone loss overall. Quote, all associations have been moderate, and their use in individuals is quite limited, and those are the different citations there supporting that. And what you have is bone resorption. So bone is resorbed, it breaks down much faster than we build it back up. So the bone resorptive markers, if you test them, you know, can be tested more frequently than the bone formation markers, so bone resorption markers, you know, will change in within three weeks, so maybe once a month, like CTX, if you want to follow that closely, you know, unlike a DEXA test, where you're looking at an interval of 18 to 24 months, typically, although I have seen shorter intervals, there's actually one clinical trial with MK four that's in my products, 45 milligrams per day in divided doses, six months. Improved bone density within six months. So that can be tested shorter but the retested in shorter intervals, but I don't believe it might be challenging to get insurance to pay for that retest. So soon bone formation markers, it takes months to form bone, so those are going to be tested less frequently. So here's some of the bone turnover markers, p1, NP, total, alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin. And then there's bone resorption markers like urinary NTX, bone specific CTX, tartrate, resistant, acid phosphatase 5b the ones with the asterisk there are the ones that are more kind of widely available. Alcohol says there should have an asterisk there too, that's pretty that's widely available as well. But in general, the most common method used are Elisa and automated immunoassays. The challenge is, is there's really high or there can be very high, inter assay coefficient of variation. So for track p5 assays, there's 13.6% coefficient of variation. And for CTX and NTX, the results can differ between labs up to 5.6 fold. So again, it goes back similar to a DEXA test. The best recommendation is get the the test rerun on the same machine at the same lab, but even with an even intra assay coefficient of variation. So that's a 26.6% for urinary NTX assays. So that can even be really high. So you can't necessarily even, you know, bank on the fact that the results, serial results, are going to be, you know, accurately depict a trend. Now, there's no standardization on the on the heart, how to harmonize the commercially available bone turnover marker test. There are working groups that are trying to do that, but it's not completed yet. The International Osteoporosis Foundation and the International Federation for clinical chemistry recommended to bone turnover markers for research and monitoring therapy, CTX and p1 NP. So those are the only two that are, that are, that are recommended. And you can look at, you know, the research in terms of the bone turnover markers is that bone loss can naturally vary over time. So one bone turnover marker can be associated with a range of bone mineral density changes. So what does that mean? It means that it's really hard to pick one point in time and test, for example, a fragment of a protein like CTX, and draw any definitive conclusions from it. And with respect to that, I mean, it's also, I think, important understanding of why, in my opinion, are these tests limited? Well, I believe it's limited, in addition to the challenges that I've already outlined, because they're 180 to 200 proteins in bone alone, in addition to collagen. So boiling it down to 123, or even five, you know, markers in the serum or in the urine and say, well, that's going to give us the definitive answer in terms of somebody's rate of bone loss or somebody's fracture risk, the system is just a lot more complicated than that, and fracture risk depends on many more variables and factors, and our metabolism, or metabolic health within bone, is a lot more complicated than just a few a few test results in terms of bone turnover markers. Now, I've had patients come to me and their doctors compared the ratio of bone turnover markers, and they said, Well, you know, your ratio is high, or your bone turnover markers are high, but you're perimenopausal, so you're a, you're a fast bone loser right now, but that'll slow down over time. Well, that's great, but that's actually not accurate. The accuracy of of being able to predict the rate of bone loss is essentially a coin tox toss. It's about 50% so telling patients that is just not in line with with what the evidence shows it can only predict only 40 to 55% of the fast bone losers and changes in bone turnover markers during anti resorptive treatment, they are correlated with their anti fracture efficacy. So that's why measuring them, and while somebody is on a bone therapy, a bone medication, osteoporosis medication is is a recommendation, you can monitor that bone turnover marker for compliance and to see if things are headed in the right direction. But you can't draw a definitive conclusion that their fracture risk is being reduced by X or Y percent. It's just not possible. So fractures and they can identify fracture risk, but practical guidelines are lacking. So we just don't know what the cutoff values are, what the ratios are in studies, even how fractures are classified varies, and most of these evaluated hip fractures, only a few assessing vertebral and non vertebral fractures. And in one study, there could be up to 10 different bone turnover markers evaluated, and the results for one marker vary tremendously between studies, from non significant to strong prediction, meaning the results are all over the all over the map, all over the map when it comes to bone turnover markers. So pre analytical variations. If you're going to test them, you want to typically test them in the morning fasting. The lowest point is going to be mid afternoon. They're seasonal variations. If you test these, they're going to be higher in the winter, because bone turnover is higher in the winter, and in premenopausal women show the greatest variation over time as well. And so if you test somebody in the summer and you test them in the winter, the results are not comparable. You can't really draw any conclusions from that. If you eat, you know, postprandial again, they have to be fasting. So eating before we'll throw that off if they've exercised in the last 48 hours before testing. That'll throw off the results. If they're smoking or have low BMI, if they are pre menopausal, bone turnover rises during the mid to late follicular phase and falls during the mid luteal phase. So the best practice is to test during the follicular phase. So not only do you have to make sure with premenopausal women that you're testing in the correct season or comparing one the same season year after year, but also the same time in their cycle, in their menstrual cycle, in order to try and get at least as accurate results as you can also Understanding all the other analytical variations that are occurring. Extra scale considerations. If they do have systemic sclerosis or other you know, matrix remodeling, diseases or conditions going on, congestive heart failure, dilated cardiomyopathy, bone turnover markers increase. Those concentrations increase, and also, if they fractured for up to a year after a fracture, bone turnover markers can be increased. So the Scientific Advisory Board of the European Society of clinical and economic aspects of osteoporosis, osteoarthritis and musculoskeletal disease, it's a freaking mouthful to say. They came together. They looked at all of this data, and they prefer p1 NP and CTX, based on the specificity to bone and their relatively low analytical variability, as well as their performance in clinical trials. So high values may indicate need to investigate secondary causes of osteoporosis and testing them can improve fracture prediction, but only slightly, again, only slightly, with a gradient of risk of about 1.2 standard deviations increase in the bone turnover marker, in addition to clinical risk factors for bone mineral density. So what does that mean? Even they're saying, you really can't just look at this number on the test. You've got to look at their other clinical risk factors and their bone mineral density and take that create an entire picture to get a more accurate assessment of fracture risk, and even with the bone turnover markers, their ability to predict fractures is is little, is slight. They say here, slight, slightly, for an individual patient, bone turnover markers. Bone turnover markers, quote, are not useful in projecting bone loss or treatment efficacy, and it is recommended that serum p1 MP and beta CTX be used to monitor, again, adherence to bisphosphonate treatment, medication treatment. Now, let me just say something about

Speaker 5  1:02:21
natural approaches. So when you look at natural approaches and bone turnover markers, and this is, I think, where there's a fallacy out there amongst colleagues, when they're say, Okay, we're going to treat a bone turnover marker, and if it goes down, we're going to assume that their fracture risk is decreased. Well, if you look at under carboxylated osteocalcin. I think that's a great example of it. That's a vitamin K dependent protein, and when it's under carboxylated, it's a functional marker for low vitamin K status. Now there are multiple types of Vitamin K, Vitamin k1 and then MK vitamin k2 and multiple forms, MK four and MK seven are the two commercially available forms. All forms of vitamin K are going to reduce under carboxyl carboxylated osteocalcin. So if you look at at a lot of companies that are marketing dietary supplements with vitamin K, you know they'll cite the osteocalcin research under carboxyl osteocalcin that it improves that and therefore it's good, right? But what about clinical trials with clinical endpoints fractures as the endpoint bone mineral density as the endpoint vitamin k1 there have been two clinical trials on vitamin k1 five milligrams and 10 milligram, neither dose in post menopausal women with osteoporosis. In neither study was bone mineral density increased. It did not stop bone loss. It did not increase bone density. One of those two clinical trials also evaluated fractures. Vitamin k1 did not reduce fractures. Did not decrease fracture risk. But of course, it reduces under carboxylate osteocalcin MK seven, similarly, multiple clinical trials in various doses and all doses tested, has never been shown to stop or reverse bone density loss. It never has been shown to improve bone density. Only slow down how fast somebody lose bone density? And in the highest dose study, 320, micrograms, in one study, the women taking it lost bone density at the hip faster than those who did not. That's MK seven, form of vitamin k2. No clinical trials looked at fracture, so we don't know if it reduces fractures. Whereas mk 445, milligrams per day in divided doses has been shown to Yes, it'll decrease under carboxyl osteocalcin, but most importantly, improve bone density and also maintain bone strength, as indicated by over 70% fewer fractures in clinical trials. So again, just relying on surrogate markers and changing a number on a test does not necessarily mean that somebody's fracture risk is being reduced, and so look for those clinical outcomes in the studies, not just relying on surrogate markers in a multi variable analysis. This is an interesting study looking at, well, I'm not quite there yet, C T x and n t x, so CTX, international Osteoporosis Foundation, international federation, clinical chemistry, laboratory medicine, they recommend CTX, not NTX. So the European society also mentioned CTX here. International Osteoporosis Foundation, they change much faster, as I mentioned. So you can if a patient does want to see those numbers on the test, if that'll be helpful for compliance, if that would help them feel better, then yes, definitely test it. But again, don't put too much, in my opinion, too much emphasis on it. Do they predict fracture? So there was one study, 2000 evaluated the association with fracture risk in post menopausal women. And what they showed is a multi variable analysis where if their CTX, the highest association of relative risk for fractures was when they had a low bone mineral density, the highest quartile of CTX, urinary CTX, and that showed the highest relative risk when DHS was lowest. You know, there's some predictive value when estradiol was also low and serum CTX was also high. You know, that also showed some predictive risk. But, you know, kind of looking again at this multi variable analysis, can get a little bit better picture and helping you understand somebody's fracture risk and and trying to improve it. These are the products that I developed. As I mentioned, they've been on the on the market almost 20 years. Now. There are three different versions. They've got mk 445, milligrams per day, plus vitamin d3, 2000 I use per day. All of them do that. All of them do osteo MK four here on the right has no calcium, because not everybody needs calcium, and not everybody needs the same amount as a dietary supplement. Osteo K minis has eight, 400 milligrams of calcium per day, and osteo k1 1000 milligrams. And they are backed by our strong bones guarantee, meaning that within six months, bone density will stabilize or improve, but more importantly, it'll maintain bone strength if somebody breaks a bone or refund their money for all qualifying purchases between their Bone density tests and I'm happy to take questions. Do

Bill Clearfield  1:07:23
thank you so much, John, you're welcome.

Speaker 6  1:07:28
Good evening. Can I ask any suggestions for somebody who's had radiation to their spine? So you know single level or multi levels. And you know, the marrows distorted now, and bone density is lost.

Speaker 5  1:07:47
And, yeah, the challenges is, is, if you know the cells in the in the bone marrow are damaged and they're not able to produce the collagen and re mineral eyes effectively, you know, it's gonna it could be difficult, but I would do, you know, the same sort of recommendations for would hold for that patient as I would have for pretty much any other patient. Looking at it from a holistic perspective, diet, making sure they're getting enough protein, which I like, based on the research, minimum of 0.6 grams of dietary protein per pound of body weight per day, plus 30 grams of total dietary fiber per day, because that's going to be vegetables and fruits and with the micronutrients, minerals, vitamins and also helping to regulate blood sugar and improve the gut microbiome, the strong gut bone connection. Now that's been well documented, give those raw materials to the bone, to the body, to heal the bones and improve their strength, and then things that will reduce their fall risk and fracture risk, strength, stability, very important if they're not sleeping well, sleeping less than six hours a night is associated with higher osteoporosis risk. And a UK study came out. They looked at biobank data in the UK that 70% of incident fractures in the UK were due to sleep issues that alone making sure they're not on medications that will increase their fall risk. And believe it's last I looked, I think over 90% of patients, elderly patients, over 65 are on medications that increase their fall risk, you know. So that holistic approach, you know, I think, is really important. The supplementation that I mentioned also very important in terms of helping to stimulate and promote, you know, healthy bone you know, physiology and bone repair. Thanks.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:39
You're welcome. Okay, I don't see any questions here. Dr Nario, do you have anything?

Speaker 4  1:09:47
Yes, so great discussion. John, so got some interesting questions here for you. So they're asking here about so osteoporosis is often viewed as a woman's condition. And in relation to assessing men, what are clinicians missing? What should they assess? I know there's a hormonal here that you're going to probably mention, but how can we address men's concern, which is probably a label that's given to only, or connotation given to women only, that's in terms of a condition.

Speaker 5  1:10:24
So 80% of osteoporosis does occur in women. That's why most of the research is done in women, and mostly in post menopausal women. 20% of cases are in men. So for testing for men, looking at that neutrophil lymphocyte ratio. I still, I think that's important. Looking at their vitamin D level. I think is important. Definitely looking at parathyroid hormone, looking at their their testosterone level, but also looking at a store dial. So the clinical trials with, you know, testosterone in terms of bone density, and they're no fracture outcomes data, but it appears that the bone improvement in bone health and bone density is primarily due to the testosterone being converted to estradiol. So we want to make sure that estradiol is at least above 20 in men, and if they're low in testosterone getting I'm a big fan of hormone replacement therapy in men and in women. So getting it into that healthy, you know, physiological range for men, and tracking estradiol over time and retesting that and again, you know, strength and stability. Strength and stability to sound like a broken record. You know, that's really, really important. And the supplementation cross crosses genders and ages as well. But for testing, I don't do a ton of testing unless there is one instance where I would test for celiac disease and men and in women, and that's if we've gone down this, this pathway of testing and still have not identified a cause. There are, there's, there are some reports in the literature where there are no other symptoms of celiac disease, and the only symptom was osteoporosis.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:11
Did you mention for men, 20? Is that we said for

Speaker 5  1:12:13
estrogen, above 20? I like it above 20. Okay,

Speaker 4  1:12:17
gotcha. There's so many ranges that you would hear about estrogen. But again, the common point here is Dr Bill always emphasized that don't put it into zero. I think he mentioned that, that there's a clinician out there or learning concepts out there that wants this estrogen to be zero. But again, we have to remember the interplay of all these, these hormones, and as you mentioned, testosterone, it's really increasing bone strength. When you mentioned estrogen, it prevents bone loss, and progesterone enhances bone formation. So just a follow up to this question, since we mentioned all the trios of hormones that we play around with in the clinical practice, when you mentioned about using biphosphonates, you said, CTX and p1, and P can be used. Is there a specific test of testing sets that you recommend to follow hormones, effectivity in terms of bone resilience

Unknown Speaker  1:13:16
to follow hormone? Did you ask?

Speaker 4  1:13:17
Yeah, when you use estrogen, testosterone, progesterone, because we promote, also in our clinical practices, that these hormones actually maintains bone, or even sometimes strengthens bone.

Speaker 5  1:13:28
So I'm not, I don't know that. I'm clear. You're asking if there's certain testing, tests that I do for hormones well.

Speaker 4  1:13:36
So a good example when you mentioned during your presentation is your when you're doing by phosphonates, right? So p1, and P, CTX was actually recommended to follow them up. But for when you now use hormones to help bone structure, is there also, is it? Can we use the same testing to also kind of follow these, the effectivity of these hormones

Speaker 5  1:13:58
in helping you know, there's, I don't know of any studies that we really look at that in fracture outcome. So I'm really focused in how I look at the research on fracture

Speaker 6  1:14:06
evidence of just bulging, herniation period, no central canal for angles, and those is very

Speaker 5  1:14:12
so, you know, I don't know. I've never seen a study that looked at fractures in prospective clinical trials, looking at those tests as well, you know, similar to the last study that I talked about that looked at CTX, or, you know, and NTX and bone density and estradiol and DHEA in those women's that did show, you know, some predictive value. But I would say that it's the same story for me that if you're moving the with anything, whether it's MK four and d3 which also will reduce CTX, improve CTX on lab tests, you know, you can show a patient that it's, you know, things are moving in the right direction, but biochemically, and estradiol should Bring down the CTX and testosterone with, you know, should also help with bone turnover markers, but whether that translates into clinical benefit in terms of fractures, I assume that it will, but I don't. I've never seen any data that shows up well.

Speaker 4  1:15:16
Now we're talking about this. Is this a so when you use hormones and you explain it to patients in terms of the benefit, terms of the benefits of it to bone in your clinical experience, have you seen just by using hormones alone, have you reversed osteoporosis or maybe even osteopenia just by using hormonal hormone balancing?

Speaker 5  1:15:37
So I never just do monomodal therapies. I've never just do one thing. In fact, I've told patients, if they just, if they want, if all they're they've coming to me for is to prescribe a drug for them if they just want to take a pill. I'm not the right doctor. There are many good doctors out there. They can go see them. I'll never work with a patient if all they want to do is that, because it's not my approach, I don't think it's gives patients the best outcomes. And I believe, you know, the research on the association of estradiol and hormone replacement therapy with fractures is clear in osteoporosis that it can reduce fracture risk by like 20% I think it's 20 to 40% in front of, remember, off the top of my head, so that that is there in terms of that research, of just looking at at hormone replacement therapy, but clinically, it's not how I operate. So I don't, I can't answer your question, right?

Speaker 4  1:16:35
So it's really more preventative. I think even FDA agrees with estradiol or estrogen therapy being a preventative therapy, but not as a treatment for

Speaker 5  1:16:47
You're right? And I think that's a mistake. I think that so the it is FDA, so hormone replacement therapy is FDA approved for the prevention of osteoporosis. It is not approved for the treatment of osteoporosis, and it's used off label. I do believe that. And I talk to patients and other clinicians, that's what they do. They're just doing primarily home or HRT with patients, bone density is going up. Now. You can't get enough data just from a single clinic and anecdote so that it's reducing fractures as well. But I've got to believe, just given the other data on the link between HRT and fracture reduction, and it's also reducing the fracture risk. So I think the FDA, at some point, hopefully, will approve it. I hope they do, because I do, at least it's my belief, based on my knowledge and research, that that it does improve bone density can be used as a treatment for HRT can be used as a treatment for osteoporosis, right?

Speaker 4  1:17:45
Here's an interesting one. How common are silent vertebral fractures, and why do they matter?

Speaker 5  1:17:52
That's a great question, and I don't have a strong answer. I don't I don't know the the prevalence of silent vertebral fractures, and might be, you know, that's one of the challenges in also looking at the research, is how fractures are reduced, you know, clinical fractures versus incident fractures versus, you know, fractures that don't cause pain, fractures that do cause pain. How important are they? You know, you I've had patients go in and they they've gotten an x ray, and they don't have a fracture, or maybe they do have a fracture, but they also, the radiologist detected an old fracture that has already healed up. So I don't, unfortunately, I can't really answer that question with any certainty.

Speaker 6  1:18:35
Can I give you a little insight on that I don't have, I don't have any stats. It just let you know what's going on about that question. So I read imaging for a company in Michigan, and the insurance companies are very involved with the administration from this company, and they have instituted an AI program. Well, they hired a company that's using an AI program that analyzes lateral chest X rays thoracic spine and in lumbar is looking for a percent of reduction of anterior vertebral body height, and that The terminology of slight wedging gets penalized that they want vertebral body fracture. Now you're going to have to say it's agent determinant, but at let's say it was 20% is is the mark the insurance company wants that reported, because their index of health care costs skyrockets when these people have undiagnosed, even though they're asymptomatic, vertebral body fractures, just, you know,

Speaker 5  1:19:57
interesting, and so the reverse do they have also, is accurate meaning when they do then treat them, yeah,

Speaker 6  1:20:04
they want, they want that information brought Yeah. They want the information brought up to their they want the information brought up to their physicians so that people start to get treated, yeah.

Speaker 4  1:20:15
Then I think one, one vertebral fracture increase this feature, fracture risks, for sure, maybe yeah, two or three times even, because I think that's just looking at one window kind of reflects to you what's happening in the other parts of that house. Yeah? So I think yeah,

Speaker 5  1:20:31
an osteoporosis within five years of an osteoporosis fracture 30, about 30, 31% are going to fracture again. Right?

Speaker 4  1:20:40
Right, right, yeah. And I've seen this clinically vertebral fractures that they didn't even know they have. So I mean, maybe it's what's showing up as, like, this chronic back pain that they didn't even know about, and even the the height that we were just talking about that's related to osteoporosis that's being lost as you observe a patient. So but again, another thing that we should probably keep an eye out for as we see patients clinically kicked all my questions out, John, thank you so much. That was a great presentation. Thank you. Thank you, sir.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:11
John, somebody made a comment about calcitonin, nasal calcitonin,

Speaker 5  1:21:16
I've only used it when there's been a fracture to try and spinal fracture, to reduce the pain, discomfort and help the healing. I don't typically use it, but it is definitely a medication that has been shown to improve bone density.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:31
Yeah, I've had a few subset that like it. It's uses, uses, you know, as a nasal spray, and especially at the height of the bisphosphonate craze, you know, we were, we were, we were graded, whether, whether we were using the bisphosphonates, if there was, you know, osteopenia or osteoporosis, and you know, those drugs they you have to give them a whole glass of water. They have to sit up for, what, a half hour, an hour after, after they drink it, and they get esophageal erosions. And then, if memory serves me, right, I don't use this much anymore them anymore that they actually after, after a prolonged period of time, like five years, ended up causing osteoporosis in the in the hip and in the jaw, I think, right?

Speaker 5  1:22:19
So, partially true, not necessarily causing osteoporosis, but causing fractures. So atypical femoral fractures, unicortical breaks, are well documented with bisphosphonate medications. Also doing awesome math can cause problems with like bisphosphonate related osteo necrosis the jaw also can be created by some of the other medications, and it's a very small percentage, but it's statistically significant to the point where recommendation now is, I believe, not to use those medications longer than three to five years. But with respect to fractures, first of all, medication possession rates are very low. When it comes to the bisphosphonates, over half the patients discontinue them within the first year, and even more second year. In order to get the benefits of the medications, you have to take the medication at least 80% of the time. So it's a really challenging clinically to get somebody to do that and then maintaining that over time. But then when you look at fractures, if it's primary fracture prevention. Of the medications, only one medication has been shown to reduce primary vertebral and hip fractures. The vast majority of fracture outcomes, clinical trials and the Osteoporosis medications are secondary osteoporosis, not secondary fracture prevention, not primary fracture prevention, and you and so the data gets really muddled out there. And people have looked at this and said, Okay, let's look at the different studies. Let's look at the data. And when it comes to primary fracture prevention, the BIS oral bisphosphonates will reduce vertebral fracture, primary vertebral fracture risk of not primary hip fracture risk, which is the most dangerous? Excuse me, the only medication that's been shown to reduce primary hip and primary vertebral fractures is Zometa, intravenous odgwinate. So that's, I think, important to understand also when you're looking at you know, what is a good medication to use? In my book, I walk patients through, you know, asking questions, these questions to their doctors, like, in terms of making the best decision for themselves. And most doctors don't understand the data to this this point, and I think it's just assumed, well, a bone is a bone is a bone. I don't know for why I would want to just reduce vertebral fracture risk without also trying to reduce hip fracture risk. But maybe there are clinical reasons why for secondary prevention, fracture prevention, the medications are much more effective for both preventing vertebral and hip fractures.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:54
What about the IV preparations?

Speaker 5  1:24:57
Well, Zometa is electronic. Acid is IV. So, you know, similar, I mean, so that's, that is the best one, if you're looking at primary fracture prevention, that is probably the best medication for reducing fractures at both the spine and the hips, for secondary prevention. You know, I

Speaker 7  1:25:17
personally, thank you very much. I personally,

Speaker 5  1:25:22
like paratide, because it's old medication we know from from medications, the vast majority of side effects are not understood until they've been on the market in real world situations for years. So my preference, typically, is I don't like using a medication that hasn't been on the market at least five years, ideally 10 years. And Forteo has excellent fracture reduction on it. The black box warning is BS, it's not accurate in terms of its risk for increasing osteosarcoma. That was mouse studies, they used hundreds of times the dosage used in humans, there been millions of doses of potato given documented and No, no incidences of osteosarcoma can be attributed to the medication. So that's one. I like their numeral medications, you know, PTH analog, like the name is slipping me right now. There's another. There's another one, or denosumab, also good fracture reduction as well. It depends also on what they're the clinical cases. I mean, if it's somebody with cancer treatment induced osteoporosis, post menopausal osteoporosis, you know, just asking the question, what does the research show in those where we have it, there's a lot of gaps in the research.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:44
What about hyperparathyroidism or parathyroid?

Speaker 5  1:26:48
Yeah, that stumps me a lot. I mean, you know, it can be secondary to to vitamin D deficiency, so always want to check that, and I've seen that regulate better when there's low vitamin D, and that's that's corrected, but I'm I've been stumped on that, unless there's some sort of abnormality in the in the parathyroid gland that's that's creating, creating the issue that needs to be excised or radiated. Don't know, maybe there. I'm sure there are people who know more and could have a better answer. I just don't, and I don't see it that often.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:22
So Well, we, we, we've come across something called the Coimbra protocol, which is uses very high dose vitamin D, and they use suppression of parathyroid gland as as their guideline, rather than vitamin D. 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels. Have you come across that at all? It's for autoimmune

Speaker 5  1:27:44
No, but thank you. And I have something I can look into. I appreciate it. Yeah, you can

Bill Clearfield  1:27:49
go look on our on our YouTube channel, our website. I gave a talk on it a couple of weeks ago. So, so, okay, so, so that's Petronella has a question, yeah, oh,

Speaker 8  1:28:03
my question is Prolia. It's, it is a monoclonal antibody, and I saw it glow with globulins. And I think sometimes can have some liver problem with Prolia, because the doctor talk about Prolia tooshed out. He talked, he said about Prolia. Don't sum up that. It's mono it's Prolia,

Speaker 5  1:28:38
correct, and I'm sorry, is there a question? Or you just want me to talk about the medication.

Speaker 8  1:28:44
Are you aware of the side effects? Because I have some patients, and then I saw and I looked on line to search for the side effects to see from Prolia, and I think it gives hypoglobulin.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:01
I'm not aware of that.

Speaker 8  1:29:03
No, okay, yeah, we used to use zolentronic acid in residency for hypercalcemia. But I know some doctors, they it's very good to give, but I didn't know it's it has such a good profile for osteoporosis that reduces the fracture risk because it's given only IV once a year. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:29:27
I mean, it's the fracture outcomes are good, are good with that

Speaker 8  1:29:30
red class? Yeah. I mean, it's very good compliance. You give the patient IV over half an hour or whatever, once one dose and it lasts for one year.

Speaker 5  1:29:46
Yeah, that's, that's great. I mean, yes, and that's why you know some of these, even the weekly oral bisphosphonates were developed, were to try and increase compliance as well. But when you're looking at so I'm going to show you, this is, this is a chapter in my the next well, this is, it's in the first edition of the book too, but I'm expanding it. This is the manuscript chapter for the second edition of my osteoporosis book. And so this is looking at the relative risk reduction for secondary fractures with the different medications. And so when you look at you ask perlia, I mean, you're talking about a 68% relative risk reduction of vertebral fractures, secondary vertebral fractures, but only a 20% relative risk reduction in hip fracture. And you see this with all the medications. Ability to prevent vertebral fractures is much higher than the ability to prevent hip fractures. And then when you get to Yeah, I mean, even a VISTA doesn't even prevent secondary vertebral plus non vertebral fractures, relax. So these details, I think, are really important in terms of, you know, at least for patients, making sure they're getting the best recommendations and if they can, if they're going to stick with it, and understanding that even just a medication is not not going to give them, if they're just relying on taking a pill, on a medication for their maximum fracture reduction, they're really not as protected as they think.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:29
I think Dr Gerber has a question.

Speaker 7  1:31:34
Hi guys. Excellent show. Dr new said, just just a couple of curiosities. How about boron and magnesium and vitamin C supplementation for osteoporosis? You have feelings?

Speaker 5  1:31:53
I do. I have feelings and I have thoughts. For sure about that. The way that I interpret the research, or I look at the research is through the lens of has have these nutrients or doesn't matter what it is, whatever is being recommended, has it been shown in clinical trials to reduce fractures? And the answer is, for all three of those nutrients? The answer is, no. The recommendation for on was based on an old study that showed, when somebody was low in magnesium, that calcium, magnesium and boron were both low, that calcium excretion increased, and so they gave the boron and magnesium to fix that. But there are no fracture outcomes. Data magnesium, epidemiological research shows a correlation between fracture, between osteoporosis and fractures, but that's based on food frequency questionnaires that are notoriously have are prone to errors, and it's very different when a when a nutrient isn't a matrix of other food and chemicals to tease it apart and just say it's that one nutrient that's the one thing that's doing it. And when you look at the prospective clinical trials on magnesium, they just don't exist in terms of, terms of fractures. Now, I'm a fan of people getting magnesium and getting enough. A lot of people don't get enough in their diet. But when it comes to bone support dietary supplement, you know, I'm looking at, you know, what nutrients have been shown to not just improve bone density, but reduce fractures. And with the MK four, what we're seeing is over 70% reduction in fractures. And somebody should be taking a good multivitamin with magnesium in it, anyway, I believe. But there was one study from the 1990s looking at magnesium oxide prospective clinical trial, and it did improve bone density, but it was underpowered to detect fractures. I didn't see fractures. And as we know from other research, just because bone density changes doesn't mean fractures are being reduced.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:59
Thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:00
Then just add a little a little bit about boron. I think you might get some indirect effects. It might not be, you know, statistically significant, but boron binds sex hormone binding globulin, so you'll get a relative increase in estrogen and testosterone by, you know, binding the the protein that one of the proteins that circulates, the hormones in circulation. So you'll get a relative increase in free estrogen, the estrogens, and free free testosterone. So that might, might explain, you know, some of its, you know, a bit of efficacy. But I don't think I would like you like you said, John, I don't wouldn't hang my hat on, we're going to give you a boron and increase bone density, yeah.

Speaker 5  1:34:45
And I think, you know, mechanistically there probably, you know, there could be a case made if somebody's sex hormone binding globulin is going up and you want to bring it down. I mean, that's a strategy. It sounds like that could, could help regulate that, but I but

Bill Clearfield  1:34:57
it, yeah, well, we do, you know, we measure that all the time, and that's one of our go tos for if the sex hormone binding globulins are high, we'll use that, and it's pretty effective. We usually we use anywhere from three to nine milligrams. I've heard as high as 30. I've never used it at 30, but at three to nine milligrams, and usually we can bring the sex hormone binding globulins down from 120 130 down to, you know, in the 30s, 40s and 50s, which is about where it should be. So pretty quickly too.

Speaker 5  1:35:28
There's actually good there's some good clinical trials on boron for osteoarthritis and joint pain. Like it's in my joint support, my arthro balance product because of that. So again, there are definitely reasons to use it. I just

Bill Clearfield  1:35:42
Yeah, and again and again and again, it's so it makes sense, if you you got a relative increase in your estrogens and your testosterone, you know, those are anti inflammatory effects there also, so, you know, again, yet you kind of have to connect the dots.

Speaker 5  1:35:56
Yeah, I like that. Thank you. Somebody asked about strontium. I see Petronella in the in the chat. May I address that briefly? Sure I'm not a fan of strontium. So the bottom line is, strontium, yes, has been shown to improve bone density and has been shown to reduce fractures. So why then am I not a fan? Why do I not recommend it? Well, I don't for the following reasons. Every clinical trial on strontium has been done on strontium moranolate, strontium ranilate, is not available in the United States. Strontium ranulate is a medication approved in some Europeans for the treatment of osteoporosis, and the form in the United States is a dietary supplement, is Strontium Citrate. So they take the marketers, take this research, and they from Europe on strontium ranilate, and they say, well, let's just assume it's equally as effective. Well, that's an assumption. So okay, let's, let's assume that the ranilate has nothing to do with it. Let's assume that. So if we're going to do that, I mean, let's just be honest what we know, what clinical trials there are, and what they're not. And what does it show her strontium, moranolate in post menopausal women with osteoporosis, there have been five large clinical trials. Four of the five showed only vertebral fracture reduction, about 45% no hip fracture reduction. Only one of the five clinical trials showed hip fracture reduction. So to me, it's doubtful overall, whether it reduces hip fractures, it will improve bone density, that's for sure. It does incorporate into bones, but because it does, and because it's a mineral, it affects a bone density test results, and it gives a false bone density test. In Europe, where it's a medication, and they can correct for that, they can get more accurate bone density test results. In the United States, there are the machines do not correct for somebody taking strontium. And so just be aware that the bone density test results are inaccurate. And I do want to emphasize that despite the limitations of the bone density tests, I do want my the test results I'm looking at to be as accurate as possible. But even if you say, well, that's not a big deal, it does still been shown to reduce fractures. Well, what we're looking at is, you know, possibly about a 45% relative risk reduction in vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, which is no better than fossamax and doubtful. Maybe it reduces hip fractures, but only one of the five clinical trials showed a statistically significant benefit for hip fracture prevention, and then there's a safety issue. The safety issue for me is, again, if we're going to assume that the strontium ranilate is just as equally as effective as Strontium Citrate, I think we it would be unfair and disingenuous to just cherry pick the data and not say, well, it's going to be equally as safe as well. Because the reality is there are no safety data on Strontium Citrate, none. And what we know from strontium ran away is that for every one fracture that was prevented, it also caused a blood clot that can cause a DV DVT, pulmonary thromboembolism, a stroke and a heart attack. So for every one fracture that was prevented is potentially killing someone, plus with MK four, you know, we can get the clinical trial show over 70% reduction in fractures without those risks, with strong safety data and the strontium you're looking at only about 45% relative risk reduction in vertebral fractures. So for all those reasons, the safety one, importantly, also in that mix, I'm not a fan of Toronto. What?

Bill Clearfield  1:39:27
What somebody, what are some of the ingredients in your combinations there?

Speaker 5  1:39:33
It's very simple. So the osteo the osteocyte and the osteo K minis is the Mk 445, milligrams per day, vitamin d3, 2000 I use per day and different amounts of calcium, 1000 milligrams of calcium per day in the osteo k4, 100 milligrams of calcium per day in the osteo K minis, which is going to be sufficient for most women, because the average American woman consumes 800 milligrams of calcium in her diet. The US RDA for calcium is 1200 milligrams. So getting a dietary supplement four supplement 400 milligrams of calcium in it will get her into that US RDA range without any safety concerns. And then if somebody doesn't need any calcium, most men, for example, probably don't need extra calcium as a dietary supplement. Or if you're getting enough from diet, there's osteo MK four, which has the MK four and d3 same doses, but no calcium. It's a calcium free version. And recommendation is each product is bid, dosing with meals.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:28
Okay, good, all right. And no strontium, right?

Speaker 5  1:40:33
No strontium. Very simple. That's it. Just three ingredients, two or three ingredients.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:37
All right, that's our takeaway today. Dr, dr Nario, no strontium,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:42
no, it's got that on my notes. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:40:46
So Dr Byerly says. Dr Jorge palacious disagrees regarding boron. So what is what is that? What does he have to say about that? Dr Byerley, if you're there or anybody else.

Speaker 4  1:41:05
Well, Dr, Bill, you mentioned about Al, J, Cal. So John, one of their claim the flame is using algae Cal plus strontium. I'm sure you know the competitor out there of your products. So that's kind of like their and I just don't know. They're using the citrate version. So we're saying

Speaker 5  1:41:25
so I use calcium as calcium citrate, and calcium algae, calcium that they're used is has some trace minerals in it. But calcium citrate, I chose because it is if somebody has hypochlorhydria or achlory, it's still well absorbed. It's also, if somebody has a history of oxalate kidney stones, it is the preferred form of calcium. So this, there's the safety in there. And the reality is, when it comes to fracture reduction, there's no evidence that one form of calcium is superior to any other form. In fact, the studies that are out there, the vast majority of the studies, in fact, all of them that I know that looked at fractures use calcium carbonate, right?

Speaker 9  1:42:07
Oh, no. Dr George fletches has a YouTube video that would disagree with our guest tonight, and boron has the SYN Porter for calcium too. So it's, it's there for a purpose in the body. I'm not

Speaker 5  1:42:25
saying it's not, I never said it's not there for a purpose in the body. I never said people should avoid taking it. But if you look at at the if you can show me clinical trial data that shows that boron reduces fractures when you supplement with boron. Give you news to me?

Unknown Speaker  1:42:41
Well, watch this video

Speaker 5  1:42:45
on YouTube, because he actually gives studies that show,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:50
yeah, literature.

Speaker 5  1:42:51
Search of PubMed right now, you will not find any. I will guarantee you. I you know, watch the video. I'm always open to learning new things. But

Unknown Speaker  1:43:08
George. George fletches, okay, thank you for that. You're welcome.

Speaker 4  1:43:15
Oh, John, I was pertaining to stone shim citrate, that algae canal is actually possibly using because they wanted to add strontium along with the use of algae Cal plus for osteoporotic patients, think that's their protocol. So as you said, renal eight is not here in the US, right, correct. Okay, well, I, because I was reading their their studies, they're promoting the product to me too. So this is nice to know that this is not the same product that you're pertaining to in studies.

Speaker 5  1:43:46
So if they have fracture data on Strontium Citrate, is that what you're saying? Are they, are they presenting fracture data clinical trials on fracture data with strong

Speaker 4  1:43:57
No, no, it's just the combination that they're saying that they should use their their strontium also, along with their algae, plus. So the data part is really more of I know, I'm sure you know about this. They have their clinical studies about their product. Do you know that? Yeah, those go, go ahead, Billy. Well, anyway, yeah, so I was just talking to the rep with this product. So it's just now this was not expounded on when, of course, they were talking about, maybe, why not? Right? But people will not be buying it. We do find out. But anyway, it's nice to know. It's nice to

Bill Clearfield  1:44:46
know, yeah. So I'm looking at, I got up Dr Fleischer's video, and I aied it. So I got a summary, 10 to 30 milligram. He says it's good for arthritis, it's good for inflammation, osteoporosis, 10 to 30 milligrams a day. I mean, doesn't nothing, nothing came through here as far as studies. So we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll have to do a little bit more digging there. So, but that's what, that's what I came up with here. So like I said, we've used low dose boron, again, just for to sex hormone binding globulin control, you'll get relative increases in estrogens and progesterone and rather, in testosterone. So in my mind, that would be like a secondary it's not a primary reason for improving osteoporosis, but increasing free hormone levels. You know, should you know, help, you know, with, with, with the picture. So, okay, it's my two cents on it,

Speaker 4  1:45:56
and Strontium Citrate, 680 milligrams, is what allergy Cal is using in the product name, called stron boost.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:05
Yeah, well, all right. Dr Neustadt says no strontium, then no, you're no strontium for you

Unknown Speaker  1:46:13
band of strontium, yeah?

Speaker 5  1:46:15
Like, it's my, it's my reading of the research. I just, you know, I really, there's lots of citations in my presentation of all this study citations for the stuff that I mentioned on strontium, if anybody wants

Bill Clearfield  1:46:26
to dig, yeah, you know what we I've heard it over the years. You know, strontium is for osteoporosis, and I've never seen a study on it that, you know. All I've heard is, you know, parroting. You know, it should be used. So I have a tendency to be to to agree with you there. John, so yep, somebody raised their hand, Nope, okay. Any, any other questions online there?

Speaker 4  1:46:51
Dr Nario, nope, we got it all stepped out.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:54
Okay, John, you got a little summary for us here.

Speaker 5  1:47:01
Look for data on fracture reduction whenever you're evaluating a test, you know, ask the question hasn't been shown to reduce FRAC to predict fractures, and if we change those results have improving the results been shown to reduce fractures.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:15
Okay, two other suggestions in the chat. One is weight bearing exercises. I think you did mention that, right? That's important infrared therapy.

Speaker 5  1:47:24
I haven't seen any data on that, but I'm a big fan of my I'm a big fan of my infrared sauna,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:31
okay, but not not. It can't hurt. In other words, right? No, how about, how about peptides?

Speaker 5  1:47:38
Well, collagen are peptides. Other than that, you know, there are no fracture reduction data on collagen, hydrolyzed oral collagen. There's no fracture you know, there's bone mineral density data. There are no fracture outcomes data that I'm aware of for any other peptide therapy. I'm sure that. You know, peptides can be used. In fact, we've shown it with collagen effectively to help promote bone health. Which ones, which products, I don't know,

Speaker 8  1:48:03
maybe growth hormone there. And there are some peptides that acts like growth hormone too, because growth hormone increase has something to do with the bone growth too. I'm thinking it goes down with aging.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:22
All right, John, always, always, always, a good time. Where are you appearing next?

Speaker 5  1:48:30
You know, I supposed to be at Sonoran. I think Sonoran University giving a talk there. I'll be at IHS, if anyone's going to be there in February. Big travel schedule. Going to be doing a lecture in Thailand this year. I'm very excited about that.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:49
Okay, great. How about where you you're going to be, you know, like we saw you at a forum at the, you know, in the the vendors section.

Speaker 5  1:48:58
I will be there this in December. Yep, we'll be back.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:01
Okay, got any others? Did you go to there's

Speaker 5  1:49:05
all that. I think we got a list of 12 or 13 this year. Ammg. There's a long list.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:10
All right, yeah, those are the guys that are still good to us. So so we like them for sure. Thank you so much. Next week, we have Dustin Sulak, our cannabis superstar, will be giving us the latest, giving us the latest on the cannabis and whatever, whatever the heck he's up to

Unknown Speaker  1:49:35
Dr. Thank you so much. Thank you

Bill Clearfield  1:49:37
so much, John. I'll send you the video when it's ready, and I'll send you the participant list.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:44
Thank you. Do we have any contact information for Dr Neustadt? Yeah, let me put my

Unknown Speaker  1:49:51
email here and website.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:54
Yeah, I have it too. So, oh, sorry, yeah. No, no worries. I have it I can, but he'll put it in there. So video, thank you everybody. Okay, thank you so much.

Speaker 5  1:50:08
John, yeah, feel free to reach out with any questions. I'm happy to share anything.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:12
Okay, stay stay in

Unknown Speaker  1:50:13
touch. Thanks. Will do Thank you. Bye. Bye.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:17
All right. Dr Quinn, Dr Burgess, any, any what's going on with the resource people?

Unknown Speaker  1:50:24
Dr Quinn can tell us,

Speaker 3  1:50:28
okay, I'm busy writing that stuff down. I think what we did is kind of focused on the conference, the Reno conference, for so much of what we were doing to get prepared for that and see what we wanted to talk about and all of that kind of stuff. But behind the scenes, everything has been going on. So we're looking forward to, I believe, this Saturday, we're going to pick up our meetings again, right? Doctor Burgess, we'll be back, and everybody will give updates on all the projects and things that they're working on, especially the research stuff. I know I've got some stuff on my end, so I'm really excited about Saturday, and then probably next Tuesday, we'll be able to give you a little bit more.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:09
Okay, great, all right, so we kicked around, you know, doing another live conference here, we had a pretty generous offer from ranchera, which is, was the Harrah's. Now, you know, modern, modern era. If you went to went to dinner with us after the conference, you saw what a great place that was. So we'll just keep it in mind for, you know, the middle to the end of the summer, and we'll have a, hopefully a little bit better, you know, outreach, so that the you know, you know, be a better plan, you know, because it was a little bit of a rush job, okay, on online, if you, if you were At the conference, the all the videos are online, there's a link. You should have gotten an email with the password. Also for the CME credits, you should be able to get use that there should in the same email. You ask answer a couple questions, and you should be able to print out your certificate there. Those of you that weren't at the conference, if you go to congress of medical excellence.com, there's, there's a link there, $199 for all the videos and slideshow. And there's, and the credits are available for you there also. So you know that hopefully they'll live on. The credits are good for we can offer them for up to a year. So we're good till next December with with those okay, like I said, next week, Dr Dustin Sulak, the week after that. I don't have anybody just yet, so if there's anybody wants to volunteer, if you have something that you know that you'd like to present or prepare, let me know, and we'll, you know, we'll be more than happy to accommodate. You know, those of us that are here all the time, let's see. Next week is Noma so Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association. I know Dr Klausner is going to be here, and I'm going to be doing advances in hormone education in the last five years. And we had a big change in the last month, the FDA took all the warnings off of estrogens. So I'll be giving an update on that, and also talking about the traverse study, which was updates that was in last year, updates on the testosterone. And so just a hint, everything we've been we've been teaching you for the last 20 years that we were we were lambasted, naysayed, threatened with loss of licensure. Turns out we were right, and they only took them 2021, years to come. Come around to it, but at least, at least it's happens so, so, and if you know, at some point, I'm sure we'll have time to present that here also. So research guys, do your thing. Anybody who has you know, please spread the word so we can increase our our reach, and we'll, we'll get working on the next conference pretty quickly. Okay, so we'll see you all soon, and thank you all for being here as always, and we're coming out of the holiday season now, we will survived, and hopefully didn't spend too much money, and we'll see you soon. Okay, so thank you all, and I'll see you next week. Thank you. Thanks Bill. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai