Bill Clearfield  00:00
I can't make you that Elizabeth so is always the first one. One, right, right, talking to her once she never answered me.

Bill Clearfield  00:20
Find the bio for our speakers you have

Unknown Speaker  00:59
diesel catap is From

Bill Clearfield  01:18
there was 103 on last week, yeah, no total with some of them, Jay's crew, I think so,

Speaker 1  01:33
and maybe even Hunter. Well, they're like, joined at the Hip. There they are. I

Unknown Speaker  01:59
so I

Unknown Speaker  02:05
sorry, notice, this is new.

Unknown Speaker  02:07
What's that

Speaker 1  02:08
your everyday adapter? Yeah, you know, we always got good new stuff.

Unknown Speaker  02:15
Do you want to try it? They

Unknown Speaker  02:16
think it's for energy. Yeah, I kind of figured

Unknown Speaker  02:19
stress, you know, tension and toxins. Well,

Speaker 1  02:25
guys, no joke, that's for sure. He

Unknown Speaker  02:45
I suppose I could try it put in my water.

Speaker 1  02:52
Right now, I do the electro peer hydration for 30 ounces of water, they say, I don't know, 10 to 12 ounces, like no way.

Speaker 1  03:12
That's not economically feasible. What I mean, this thing holds, what is it 40 ounces, I usually put 30 ounces in there, and I do one of your little electric pure hydration packets.

Unknown Speaker  03:26
You do the whole packet. I try to

Unknown Speaker  03:30
brutal, but that's what? 30 ounces of water.

Bill Clearfield  03:38
Yeah, this week, last year, last week this time, I was on a boat cruise canals, and right fort ordered him. It's pretty nice. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:58
I've thought about a cruise myself, cruising for a bruising, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:05
well, just to even get away

Bill Clearfield  04:07
there. So from Dad, this was

Unknown Speaker  04:11
that. And then something,

Unknown Speaker  04:15
these are the guy who's standing these are one of these houses. Is Tiger Woods, somebody else

Unknown Speaker  04:34
she's having a blast. I

Bill Clearfield  04:46
our speaker. Who's the speaker? Jacqueline Sammons, better from halasi. I forgot my phone.

Unknown Speaker  05:11
Well, go see if I could find my phone. I

Unknown Speaker  05:43
Hey, Dr Bell, Hey, Jen,

Bill Clearfield  05:45
how are you sorry, sorry, I missed you last week. You were at over at a 4m right?

Speaker 2  05:50
I was, that was, um, there was some good information shared. I can send you the slide decks for the two days if you want. Sure, that'd be great. Okay, I know too. Go ahead, too. Yeah, you were at a MMG, right,

Bill Clearfield  06:15
right. Yeah, we're, you know, we're like, we're like, AVIs, you

Speaker 2  06:23
there's probably going to reach out to you and see if we could get your help with this marketing program. We're bringing the doctors, we want you to take a look at it and see if you like, what we're pitching? Okay, cool, sure. Well, I talked to Andy over the weekend. Yeah, I think I don't know. What are we going to do about the I mean, he wants to have the conference. There's some that are still going to come out there.

Bill Clearfield  07:01
I couldn't go. I wasn't going to be able to go anyway. But, yeah, you know, I've run these things. I mean, you just don't. Okay, we're gonna have a conference in three weeks. It,

Speaker 2  07:13
it doesn't work. Well, no, it doesn't

Bill Clearfield  07:20
so. Okay, well, we don't have our speaker yet, so

Speaker 2  07:25
I told them I would give a talk. So we'll we'll see if stuff materializes clearly. Other than that, how are you?

Bill Clearfield  07:39
Yeah, good, you know, bump it along, doing our doing our thing. So

Speaker 2  07:50
I'm in my backyard dealing with a broken branch on my peach tree. It produces so many peaches I and I thin it out, and it still is just overwhelming. This is and that the fruits fabulous.

Bill Clearfield  08:10
Well, we don't, we don't get that in Reno so my backyard holes rip it up to the yard and I can't get rid of them.

Speaker 3  08:27
Well, the people, we'll take the extras. Ken, don't worry. Yeah, don't throw it away.

Speaker 2  08:32
You'll you'll be battling my six kids and six grandkids.

Unknown Speaker  08:41
Yeah, I think we're good.

Unknown Speaker  08:50
We'll have more of that here. Hopefully.

Bill Clearfield  08:53
Try to make Dr Nario, you're the co host, okay,

Unknown Speaker  08:57
all right.

Speaker 2  09:01
Go silent so I can finish this job before it gets too dark and cold. Well, be careful. I'm listening.

Unknown Speaker  09:13
Don't be don't be tripping or falling.

Unknown Speaker  09:17
Amen to that. I

Bill Clearfield  09:23
Okay, I don't know where our speaker is not on yet, so hope she's not lost. I

Unknown Speaker  09:28
actually stopped dad. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  09:30
here she's in. She's in Dr Bill.

Unknown Speaker  09:35
There we go.

Bill Clearfield  09:42
All right, what's going to I was going to panic and have to do it myself. She sent me the slides so

Speaker 3  09:50
and, hey, it's hormones anyway. So you know everything about hormones. I

Bill Clearfield  09:56
don't know everything. I make it up as I go along. You know, you figured that out by now, right?

Speaker 3  10:03
You Yeah, you know everything by making it up as you go along, maybe that's a better sentence.

Unknown Speaker  10:10
Yeah. So. So last week, here there was some fireworks.

Speaker 3  10:19
Fireworks. We had, we had an understatement, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:23
we had a we had 103 on, I don't know Jay brought. No, I had the count. It was 103 which was, that could be our record. That was more than one. I think we had Doctor mccullo on,

Unknown Speaker  10:38
right? It was,

Speaker 3  10:40
yeah, yeah. So you see how hot peptides are. Yeah, they haven't given the slides yet, so I don't know if they're going to share it now. He

Bill Clearfield  10:49
told me he wasn't going to, although he kept promising it on the show, I actually listened to the whole thing. No. So just to let you know, the the videos on, so everybody was on last week with with Jay Campbell. The the video is on our channel, and also aos, aos rd.org/webinars, Jay's decided not to release the the the slides to us for whatever reason. I don't know why. And so you're going to have to screenshot the what you want. I mean, there were a bunch of summary slides. I think that would probably probably do. It's not up to me. Sorry,

Speaker 3  11:33
no, because I think they were still trying to edit that. So if you listen, he's asking Hunter, like, what is this all about? So it seems like it's not the final product. Yeah, so Hunter, kind of is the mastermind of the house I

Bill Clearfield  11:47
got. I kind of got that impression. So

Unknown Speaker  11:52
they're trying to stay out of trouble. Also,

Bill Clearfield  11:55
he's always in trouble. What's this? Yeah, I think Trouble. Trouble invites trouble in. That's his middle name. So anyway, Jay's All right, I like him. My one real beef is that, you know, we will have to, you know, watch our P's and Q's because there's bad people out there want to, want to, you know, you know, you know, decapitate us. He's got no degree in anything. He could say whatever he wants, and nobody, right? And he's, you know, I got an email. I get an I get their email. I got an email today hunters recommending guardians as an anti, anti aging remedy, along with retratitude, whatever gratitude time, yeah, they call it Ratatouille, ratatou, ratatouille and

Unknown Speaker  12:46
metformin, those three,

Bill Clearfield  12:50
that's a, that's a metabolic stack for longevity. That's kind of crossing, you know, skirting a line of medical doctor dome, I don't know,

Unknown Speaker  13:05
seems unless they tried it on themselves.

Bill Clearfield  13:09
Well, first of all, where did they get this stuff? I mean, you know, metformin and guardians are, you know, India

Unknown Speaker  13:15
Mart, right? Huh? They get

Unknown Speaker  13:16
it from India Mart, Indian art,

Unknown Speaker  13:21
plus tariffs. Now

Bill Clearfield  13:23
we get, you know, back at back, back in the bad old days, I I got 1012 milligram ivermectin pills, at least that's what they they claim they were for $155

Unknown Speaker  13:34
from powder.

Bill Clearfield  13:36
No, it was the pill. It was there were pills, but they were white. They weren't stamped or marked any or anything. It came in boxes. Did ivermectin,

Speaker 3  13:44
so it worked. It really made you believe that you got ivermectin. You

Speaker 1  13:48
got it. It's right there. Where's it? Right behind the here.

Bill Clearfield  13:54
I know if you can see it here, here, here, it is

Unknown Speaker  13:58
probably expired by now.

Bill Clearfield  14:01
Oh, you think, what you think these have have an expiration date.

Unknown Speaker  14:06
It's not very dreaming.

Bill Clearfield  14:07
So okay, i Our guest is here, you want to say Canario hosting.

Unknown Speaker  14:15
So I was busy, so I have my typical week today.

Bill Clearfield  14:18
It says, it does say January 2025, as an expiration date here. This is from the Lancer therapeutics in

Unknown Speaker  14:28
10 film, right? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  14:31
yeah. See Iver here, see it says ivermectin, right? There,

Speaker 3  14:35
12. Yeah, that's the real deal. I can real from here. Oh. Mary Elaine, wanted to give a shout out. National Nurses Week, may 6 to 12. There we go.

Bill Clearfield  14:47
Okay. National Nurses Week, okay. Overall, definitely

Speaker 3  14:52
okay. We can't do without the nurses. All right.

Bill Clearfield  14:56
So you, you're getting, you're getting a sensitive group here. Doctor salmon, so I know, I know you. I think you were on with Dr halasso, right? You're muted, yeah, yeah, getting a sense of the group here, you know, we're very serious about

Speaker 4  15:11
Yeah, it sounds like it, no, this is, like, right up my alley. It's super tight laced, you know, like, absolutely

Bill Clearfield  15:17
liking this to a MASH unit.

Speaker 4  15:21
I think that's the most fun. That was the best show ever. We need more shows like that out there, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  15:27
A liking us to that, you know, you know, when we have to be serious, we're serious, but the rest of the time, you know, we, we, you know we, we at least give Dr, dr Burgess a hard time, just just for the just because he takes it so well. So

Speaker 4  15:43
I always tell my husband, if I don't give you a hard time, who's going to and what fun would that be? So

Bill Clearfield  15:49
okay, so thank you everybody. I guess we can get started now. We can do yours after we So doc, just to let you know, Dr Nario is taking Andrew Wiles integrative medicine courses at the University of Arizona. So every week we we've been on every week here since 2020, October, Dr Nario gives us the tip of the week what he learned. So the rest of us don't have to go spend $35,000

Unknown Speaker  16:18
I appreciate that. Hopefully. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  16:23
bicycle seats. What else did we learn? Yeah,

Speaker 3  16:26
prostate. Take care of your prostate. Them you're riding on bikes. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  16:30
Okay, so we'll get it afterwards. Okay, salmons, you know, do her thing, because she's probably getting bored listening to this nonsense.

Speaker 4  16:40
So I'm having a great time. Let's see. I'm going to see if I can share. So

Bill Clearfield  16:44
I'm going to do a little introduction. Okay, so Doctor. Doctor Jacqueline Sam is a Board Certified Obstetrician and Gynecologist. She practices in Orange County, California for the past 10 years. She serves patients at the transformation Health and Wellness Center in Anaheim. She was educated in South Southern California. She completed undergraduate degree at California State University Fullerton, and she earned a do degree at Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona, California. She interned at University of California Los Angeles, and she finished her residency training at University of California San Diego, before returning to Orange County, you need to get out of California, right? He'll give you a whole different perspective. One thing,

Speaker 4  17:27
you know, so we have property in Arizona, and I just love it in Arizona, but boy, it's hot in August and September. Holy mackerel.

Bill Clearfield  17:35
Try Iowa.

Speaker 4  17:39
Then there's snow. Not a big fan of that, either. I'm just I'm too spoiled here in Southern California. But the taxes suck, the political environment sucks, you know. But sorry, as

Bill Clearfield  17:50
a provider, Doctor, Doctor, Jacqueline brings an outside the box of problem solving approach to health and wellness, along with a unique mindset, she's used the human body as a dynamic unit at patients health needs are not cookie cutter. One size fits all. She aims to provide each of the patients with a personalized plan of integrative care. She brings a fresh, refreshing perspective to optimizing health outcomes for each individual who walks through her door. Her extensive training enables her to hone in on root causes of ailments to find appropriate remedies. We could go on and on and on here, but so I'm going to let you finish the introduction yourself. So everybody please, Dr Jacqueline Sammons, and we're honored to have you here.

Speaker 4  18:34
Oh, thank you so much. That was a really warm Gosh. It makes it sound like I know what I'm talking about. So I've been in the integrative space for about six years. Let me get unmuted. Am I unmuted again?

Bill Clearfield  18:51
Yeah, no, yeah, you're fine. That was me. I went to let somebody in, and they got in. I messed it up. Go ahead. Yeah, that's

Speaker 4  18:59
okay. We've had enough out of you. Thank you. That's all right. So Dr Clearfield reached out to me after I gave a talk to American Academy of stem cell physicians on their webinar series and then with Dr Fauci and kind of wanted me to challenge myself, actually, in sort of discussing aromatization and aroma taste blocking in men when we're treating men with hormone replacement therapy. So it's a little outside of my whole comfort zone. I've been a little newer to treating men over the last six years. Um, and as I'm finding, is true with men, is also what's true with women. As far as a lot of what we do in practice has to do with urban legend, myths that have been been passed down that we think we're supposed to do it this way because somebody said that's a problem and, and there's some kind of little Google search thing over here. But really, the evidence is a little bit sparse. Um, unfortunately, I'm hoping we're going to get some more evidence eventually, but hopefully we're able to combine some of this here today and kind of get people a better perspective on it. Here's our objectives page, which always just helps me to keep focused. We'll see how much I stick to this, but kind of an understanding of what is the aromatization, why it's important, common practice of aromatase inhibitors that we use, and then best practice. And once I kind of dove into the literature of it, it turns out that sort of what I was taught urban legend wise, maybe isn't actually how I should be managing patients. So thank you, Dr Clearfield, because now I'm able to kind of modify my own practice with what I've learned just in the last, you know, several weeks. So this is interesting. Okay, so I wasn't sure everybody else's background with this group as far as management of men and testosterone deficiency and how to diagnose it. So I don't mean to be condescending, but I like to put my presentations together for completeness sake, because if you were to come at me and tell me about nephron health and pushing sodium and potassium, like I have no idea, I don't remember, so I kind of like to put these things in there. So in the common medical practice we're going to see, or the Western conventional medical practice, we're going to see the testosterone deficiency is defined as a total testosterone of less than 30 I really pay more attention to the clinical presentation of my men. If you're coming to me and you're having chronic fatigue, you can't lose weight, you don't have any motivation, you can't get off the couch, you can't get your wife's honey do list done. You're not getting gains at the gym, nor even any motivation to get to the gym or do anything active, and you have a testosterone of 500 you're still low. So it's more about clinical presentation in addition to those objective lab findings. But I really like the benefit of those lab findings as well. I think an optimal testosterone is anywhere from 700 to 1100 really, when you're getting beyond this to this super physiologic levels, I don't think there's added benefit. And that's when we start to see that patients have more of the aromatizing side effects of converting that testosterone to aspirin, bile. And again, I like to restore physiologic balance to my patients, not necessarily super physiologic levels. I think that's when we start screwing patients up and having these iatrogenic issues. When we're kind of push, push, push. These ranges are kind of put there by God or Mother Nature, however you want to view it, for a reason, and so more is not always better. So when I have my patients coming in. They're like, I feel great on 2000 I'm like, Yeah, but you got a big old pot belly, and now you were back to not being able to get off pet couch, and you're super aggressive and emotional. So not great. The literature was kind of mixed. When I reviewed it was anywhere from 2.1% of us men to 40% of us men. I really think this quote of 2.1% is grossly underestimating where our men are. I would say, particularly in my practice, it's probably pushing 30 to 40% of my men have a testosterone deficiency if they're not managing it actively. And again, we can manage this multiple ways. Doesn't necessarily need to be with testosterone replacement therapy, and we'll get into that a bit. They state that it worsens with age, but I don't know that that's true historically. I think historically, we still maintained testosterone levels, but also historically, we died at 40 from farming accidents and communicable diseases. So it does seem to worsen a bit with age, just as everything kind of is more and more impaired. As far as functionality, symptoms of testosterone deficiency can just include reduced libido, erectile dysfunction, low low energy, sort of a typo, fatigue. Fatigue is a huge symptom of my gentlemen, core concentration, depressed mood irritability, mood swings, just emotionality. They're super tearful. They're crying at Kodak commercials. They feel like they're wives. And I say it kind of tongue in cheek, also like, as a perimenopausal woman, I don't like myself either. So if I were a gentleman coming to the table with the ups and the downs and all over the place without being like, Mr. Steady Eddie, yeah, it would be hugely disconcerting, increased body fat, particularly in the abdomen, decreased muscle mass and a loss of bone density. So I think it's really important. We tend to focus on those objective numbers. We get our labs done, and we're all excited because we've made this amazing diagnosis of decreased testosterone or testosterone deficiency, but we haven't thought further. Why is this person testosterone deficient? Why aren't they making it? Is it a hypothalamic dysfunction, a primary pituitary dysfunction? Was there testicular trauma? Did he have an orchiectomy from testicular cancer in his mid 20s? Like, what else is going on? Traumatic brain injury can be a major source viral infections like the mumps. Klein filters, radiation, chemo, other medications, undescended pesticides. So again, some of these are going to present when you're much younger, but a lot of those, a lot of those can also be things that we acquire over time, obviously not client filters, but we can get pituitary dysfunction, or we can all of a sudden sustain a brain trauma that will affect our hormones other causes diabetes, anemia or hemochromatosis. So it seems that hemochromatosis can actually lead to a lot of impairment, system wide, organism wide, I should say so, things like brain fog and fatigue and liver congestion, or elevated LFTs, difficulty breathing, etc. And I think it's because there's so much of these blood cells running around that it's just clogging up the works. The iron that these men have is really affecting that capillary flow. So we get decreased blood flow to the pit area, the hypothalamus and the testes, chronic hypoxia, obstructive sleep apnea, particularly smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, chronic hypertension, obesity, consumption of trans fats, but just also Ultra processed foods, I think, RFK juniors and as well as the Casey means and the brother care.

Speaker 4  26:25
So those individuals are really bringing to light how much of these ultra processed agents that we're putting in our food here in the United States is affecting our health. So I think that's coming to the surface much more. It's not so much of a rabbit hole conspiracy theory any longer. Now the bigger question is, what do we do about it? Right? Just aging in general, we don't do things as well as we mature, so that's where we come in, as the types of providers that we are, is to try to help mitigate some of those aging elements so that we can sustain a better, steady state longer, rather than be in a steady decline. And psychological stressors. Certainly, if we're having like cortisol abnormalities, massive psychological stressors, we hate our job. We just got laid off. The wife's divorcing me, all of these kind of things. My kids on drugs, these sorts of elements can affect that that cortisol level. And if we have too much cortisol, we are not going to effectively approach or allocate some of that energy production to our sex hormones. If we're not safe to be reproducing because we're in survival mode, then our body's not going to allocate energy to that. So important to keep in mind, okay, a big thing in big topic in discussions is these what are called endocrine disruptors, and I think this is one of the primary issues. Why are almost half of our gentlemen in the United States suffering with testosterone deficiency? It's not all that. We're just maturing. Of course, we are an aging population. Birth rates are down. So as a whole population, we're sort of towards that later part of our timeline. But I think there's a lot of environmental factors that are really contributing, not just to men, but also to women. That we're seeing estrogen dominance in women, polycystic ovarian syndrome, insulin resistance. I mean, that's been my bread and butter for the last 20 years. But as we then look through our male counterparts, this has really affected them as well. So they're sort of grumpy, dumpy, heavier, said, like, squishy tissue, right? So it's not just that. It's a gentleman who's maybe not freaking out as much, but like, marshmallowy tissue. And you can really tell, if you ever start IVs, how they're just sort of, I don't know, for a better, lack of war, just squishy. And so it's really just inflamed core integrity of that tissue. And I think it comes a lot from these endocrine disruptors. So they have anti androgenic effects and estrogenic effects. So it's not that just we're blocking testosterone of formation thereof, but also that we're converting more to estrogen. It interferes with the hormone production and release, transport, metabolism, binding and elimination. So it's like every single element of this path, really, with with hormones, what we want to do is consume our cholesterol. We take that cholesterol ring reform DHEA, and then that ring is going to convert through various enzymatic processes to become our pregnant alone, progesterone, estradiol, estrone, estriol, testosterone, DHT, so this is happening through those other enzymes. So if we're blocking metabolism enzymes, then after we use it, we're supposed to methylate it, and then we get rid of it through liver metabolism, some through kidney and metabolism as well. And so if we're not doing that, or we're increasing our resorption of those kind of used recycled hormones, they typically are more highly inflammatory, so examples of what endocrine disruptors are. So again, herbicides, pesticides, plastics and food packaging. So just okay, we're going to go get organic chicken, but it's packaged in plastic. How long has it been sitting in that plastic? How much plastic did it encounter in the machinery at the factory that was pulling the bones off of it and so forth? Various pharmaceuticals, dietary components, BPA, again, plastics, containers, linings of of various things, just linings of our plastic bags that we bring our groceries home in, even our clothing has plastic. I like my nice stretchy clothes because they're super comfortable, but it has plastics in it, so that's going to affect us as well, phthalates, so industrial compounds such as flooring, wall, walls, mats, these kind of things, personal care products. This is something, again, much more concerning for women, primarily or historically, but now I think a lot of men are getting into more of a skin care regimen, and I need to use this type of shampoo, and my wife likes me to use this cologne, and I'm using deodorant and so on. So even though it might be relatively small in comparison to our female counterparts, men are still getting those chemical exposures. And even just cuddling up against your wife, if she's put hand cream and lotion all over her body at night and you cuddle up next to her, you're getting that skin to skin exposure. You're getting some of that absorption as well, and then PCDS, like paints, oils, building materials. So our, you know, our industrial gentlemen who are out there on job sites and construction or painters, etc, they're getting that exposure as well. So how do we evaluate these patients? Again, I put this in because I know we're supposed to be talking about aroma face blocking, but I really feel super strongly about it. Getting objective data. We've got to find out where these patients lie as a baseline, and then follow them along as we have intervention to ensure that what we're doing is working. So we have to have this, this baseline. So FSH, LH, total, free testosterone, D, H, E, A, S, estradiol, progesterone. I like getting a prolactin, because if you have, for example, a high FSH, LH, a high testosterone, do you have a primary testicular issue that you're having an overproduction of testosterone, like, what's going on? So you can have some of these other elements being elevated or depressed, and then prolactin can also help to discern, do you have a primary pituitary tumor that's causing these things like, Where? Where is the nut underneath the shell game, right? So, is it primary pituitary hypothalamic? Is it testicular or other, right? Is it undiagnosed diabetes. Sometimes they'll come in and just like really again, bumpy, grumpy, lack motivation. I don't feel good. I have to nap every time I eat, miserable, and their a 1c, is seven. So that would be an important opportunity to intervene and correct that pathway. I like when I check thyroid, I check TSH, free T for and free t3 that's going to give you the best and kind of assessment of what that whole thyroid axis looks like at pituitary thyroid axis, vitamin D. Vitamin D insufficiency is a huge player in immune function, sex hormone function, bone mineralization, etc. It's got an enormous role in our bodies. Super important hormone, don't forget, our vitamin D. I also like checking a fasting insulin, again, glucose, a 1c, AST and alt. This is going to give you a good indicator of how well your liver is clearing. And if you've got some non alcoholic fatty liver disease, if you're not clearing appropriately, you are not going to do well on testosterone therapy. Ask me how I know I've had so many patients that they're like, just stop. Just just I know I'm going to do well on it. My buddy did really well at the gym. Give me testosterone. Okay, fine. And I do. Then they get their labs, then it comes back and their LFTs are elevated. And when they come back for their follow up lab review, they're like, Yeah, I was feeling good for a month, but now I'm just really, like, heavy and I'm back to where I started, you know, and so on. And it's because they're now aromatizing. They're not clearing those hormones appropriately, so it's giving that testosterone enough time to hang around so that it's now getting estrogenized. So we want to make sure they've got good liver clearance before commencing therapy. I like checking MTHFR and homocysteine. The incidence of MTHFR mutations in the US is anywhere from 10 to 55 0% and so a lot of us have an MTHFR mutation that is going to affect methylation. And if you recall what I just said, the methylation is what is responsible for processing those hormones and getting them kicked out of our system. It's also responsible for portions of that kind of twisting and curving, or the aromatization, enzymatic changes of these cholesterol rings to form the different sex hormones. So really important. And then that homocysteine should be less than 10, and that's telling me that you're methylating and getting rid of things appropriately. If we've got a homocysteine of like 1215, I think my highest I saw was like 26 these folks are going to really have a hard time clearing whatever you do, right? So we want to make sure to correct that first before commencing therapy.

Speaker 4  35:22
Okay, so what are some management strategies? Again, I like to use testosterone therapy sort of as a an ultimate approach, right? So we want to fix their diabetes first. We want to make sure that they're working out first, make sure that they're eating fewer Ultra processed foods. If they've reduced their alcohol intake, we have better sleep hygiene. Fix your sleep apnea. I can give you all the testosterone in the world. If you are still snoring and choking, it's essentially like your body's being strangled every single night. Your body is not going to do well with just testosterone. Now you're going to be grouchy, you're going to be super therapeutic, and you're still not going to feel the best benefits of that testosterone. So we want to treat all of those underlying diseases, First, remove or diminish any of these endocrine disruptors. Again, I'm not giving up my stretchy clothes. It's just not happening. I love my sports bras way too much. I'm not giving up the little amount of makeup that I use. So to a degree, right? If you can start cooking in glass containers, you know, using cast iron skillets, minimize plastic bag use. You know, put your foods if they come in plastic packaging, putting them right into glass containers right away. You know, just small steps that you can do, little by little, to make those habits without getting completely overwhelmed with our culture as it stands right now, introducing things that can also just naturally help with testosterone production. One is lifting heavy, as I mentioned up here, more clean animal protein consumption, more healthy fats, maca, maca root can be helpful. Nuts, ashwagandha, ginger and fenugreek. So these are some herbal things. Or, again, that's not herbal, but nonetheless, these are some dietary things that you can implement as a as a gentleman, to help build those levels. Intrinsically, I have found that my patients who implement this, it might correct. If you're like at 550 and you're feeling a little sluggish and lacking motivation, you start lifting heavy, getting that part of your habit and putting some ginger, Fenugreek and maca into your, you know, tea or a protein shake every morning, you're going to get your levels up there. But if you're looking at a gentleman who's got a testosterone level of 250 you're going to have to be eating a lot of ginger to get you up to therapeutic physiologic levels of testosterone. So you know, it's not you're wasting your time, necessarily. I just think that these natural supplements are not going to be the whole answer. Again, just an opportunity you want to correct their magnesium, zinc and vitamin D. Um, DHEA, like I mentioned, he's, he's sort of a little brother to testosterone, is the way that I like to look at it. And sometimes you can get a bit of correction with just giving DHEA and some of that will convert over to become testosterone. Again, I've seen such an overwhelming level of conversion that we go from super like poor levels of testosterone to lay fantastic motivational levels of testosterone. But it can help and with the benefits of DHEA otherwise, as an anti inflammatory brain protection for cognitive health, you know, it's got other benefits as well. So you want to correct DHEA anyway. And then there are a variety of peptides that are coming to light. There's like, a romagi Hold on. One of my colleagues just sent me this guy. He's like, you gotta try this. And I was like, fantastic. I don't know anything about it, as the aroma sin is what he's using. There's also something called Kiss peptin, which helps at the hypothalamic level. There's a gonadotropin, you know, peptides that kind of help build those again, from a hypothalamic standpoint, to build that pituitary signaling, and so from there, you'll get your FSH and LH, which will build your testosterone, theoretically. So I think peptides for a lot of us, for me in particular, are very new. So it's not that I think there's not a value to them. I think it's still quite a bit of Wild West, if you will. As far as how much do we dose? How long of a break do you put it in the morning or the evening you so there's a lot of logistics about it that I think are still somewhat mysterious, and there's not so many of those protocols. For example, if I tell you, like, Hey, I gave this patient a Z pack. You know exactly how to write for a Z pack. You know how it's dosed. Everybody is same, same thing. No matter if you're in Maryland, California, wherever you're from, it's going to be the same dosing because there's a defined protocol and an understanding in the community how we prescribe that. But with peptides, I think there's still just a lot of variants. And it's not that any of it's wrong or that it's hogwash. I think that it's just, I'm still not completely well versed in how a lot of these things will benefit. I have a couple of patients who are on Kiss peptin Because they wanted the benefits of testosterone elevation, but also wanted to preserve their fertility. So with testosterone replacement therapy, you'll often suppress sperm production, and they're looking at making the babies. One gentleman just got married a month ago. So very exciting stuff. So we want to preserve that so, because Hepta might be a better strategy for him than to use testosterone specific. All right, testosterone therapy, I think the vast majority of us have sort of focused on the injectable version of testosterone. I think that's what's traditionally been used. It's been used in gyms, and you know all of these weight building body lifting centers for decades, but this is where you can have a higher likelihood of overdosing your patients and getting those super physiologic levels that are not necessarily advantageous. I think they're advantageous when you're 25 Arnold Schwarzenegger from the 80s, and you want to be super bulked and ripped and like best, and have that aggression, and they're throwing weights around like that's great, but most of our 56 year old gentlemen are not looking for that, at least not in my practice. They just want to feel healthy. They want to feel whole. They want to feel strong. Be able to protect their families. Be motivated again to do that honey do list. I appreciate so much. So they're looking at it from that perspective. Most of my gentlemen kind of shy away from the gels or the creams. They're very concerned about getting it onto their kiddos, their wives, I was gonna say wives, but hopefully they just have one wife. We're a lot you don't want to have wives, just personal recommendation, but they kind of avoid the gels and the creams. If they are going to use a gel or a cream, I usually suggest use it in the morning, and then put your undershirt over the gel or the cream, like, put it on your upper chest, then put your shirt, then wear your, you know, work clothes, suit, whatever it is, and don't have wife, you know, snuggle up next to you on the pillow right after applying it, so that way it's gotten full absorption before you go off and you take your shower at night and go into bed. Trophies are a fantastic form of administration. So this will be a sublingual kind of like a gummy that absorbs under the tongue. Beautiful. These are respond. These are absorbed beautifully. For patients, I easily get their physiologic levels restored. I can get to super physiologic, but we have to try really hard, and then they're easy to divide up. You can cut them in half. You can cut them into quarters. You can change the dosing. These are done through a compounding pharmacies. I'm not having to mess with mixing it up and formulating it. I oftentimes will mix it with 25 milligrams of DHEA. So I'll do about 25 to 50 milligrams of testosterone with 50 milligrams, or, excuse me, 25 milligrams of DHEA. So they're getting both of these in at the same time with one tool, one prescription, one thing they have to remember to refill. And I think it works very, very nicely with the injections, it's just very easy to get super physiologic. You're getting really hyper therapeutic doses, and then you're getting symptoms, and you'll get this peak profit phenomenon where they're super great types of energy for those first three, four days, and then they start crashing down. Okay, fine. So let's divide the dosing into two doses throughout the weeks. We're doing Monday, Thursday dosing, and they've got holes and pokes all over them. They're getting little depo balls in their buttock or in their deltoid. So it's just, there's better ways to do it. So it's not that I don't have my gentlemen on injectable. I do. I would say it's probably 40% of my men are on injections, and the rest are mostly on trophies, pellet therapy. I don't do particularly I've had a lot of patients with with pellet therapy out there in the woods. If they're happy on it, I'm fine with still managing them for their other health issues. I just think again, we get this really, really high peak, you know, they're on a big high. And then they start to trough out at that two and a half to three month mark before they get their next pellet. It's a procedure. So you're having to cut the tissue. There's a connection for abscess, infection, site reactions, etc. And then if you are super therapeutic or having a bad reaction, you can't take it out. So it can get really difficult for patients to navigate. But for those who are happy, stay on it, leave them alone. It's fine.

Speaker 4  44:28
So what are the side effects of testosterone therapy? Irritability, hair loss, again, starting bar fights, maybe hair Hair Growth elsewhere on their body edge, you know? So we're kind of familiar with some of these. What I usually recommend for follow up after commencing therapy is at one month, have them check in. So even if we're not getting lab levels at this point, I like to see how they're feeling. Are they noticing a benefit? Is their sleep affected? Are they feeling more aggressive? Are they fighting with their wife or their teenage kids? More are they having any sight reactions? Do they hate the flavor of the trophy, you know? So there's a lot of things you can check in here and just touch base, make eye contact, make sure your patient's doing what you ask them to do. Sometimes patients come in and they're like, Yeah, I know you prescription in, but I just pick it up. Or I was traveling for work and I forgot it. Okay, so let's reiterate why you're going to be on this therapy. Let's talk about the benefits again. Let's get you started so it's that ability to refocus as well. And then usually at the three month mark, I'll have patients recheck labs and make sure what we're doing is working. Okay, so here is that reaction you can sort of see here, how, uh, oops, sorry, how chemically similar estradiol and testosterone are. Again, we're starting with this baseline cholesterol ring, and we're converting this double bonded oxygen to an ethyl group and so on. So there's, like, these couple of little changes, just this methyl group being taken off. We don't see that on the estradiol. So that's what aromatase does, and it does it through the cytochrome p4 50 pathway in the liver. That's why you need to make sure that your liver is working, is so that we can activate that appropriately and have good response and good clearance. Sorry, guys, I gave a menopause seminar for 16 hours over the weekend, and my voice is still recovering, so I'm drinking my tea over here. Okay, so what are the signs of aromatization? Basically having too much serum estradiol. And I think there's, again, this urban London out there that this is happening to all our men who are on testosterone therapy, and it's just really not the case. So let's go through it. Um, all right, so we get fatigue, a lack of motivation, abdominal adiposity, mood swings, tearfulness. That emotionality really throws my gentleman for a loop. They are not happy when they're sitting there in the kitchen just crying, and they're like, I have a beautiful wife. I have a beautiful family, my kids passing algebra, like I have nothing to be crying about, and I'm just a damn mess. And oftentimes this is something they cannot share with their peers. Like they're not going to tell their buddy at the gym that they're crying at the kitchen table. They're not saying that my gentleman in the room here in the on the webinar, sometimes your men are not going to share it with you, either because they're going to feel very vulnerable, so I think normalizing asking that question, or potentially having like an intake form or a little questionnaire that they can fill out or have your medical assistant asked. Oftentimes, our medical assistants are women, so they may feel more comfortable. Statistics show that men feel more comfortable sometimes discussing this with men with women, than discussing it with male counterparts. Just just to keep in mind, if you're not hearing this from patients, they are having it, they may not tell you or concentration, and they just can't focus. They can't learn new things. It's hard to complete tasks. It can be very disconcerting, particularly for our gentlemen who have this higher executive functioning, their CEOs, their businessmen, they're running around. They run their companies, you know, doing whatever it is they do, and now they they just can't get stuff the end of the day. And it's like, what is wrong with me? So sometimes that can be a sign of just too much estradiol gynecomastia. But this is a late sign, so I would not wait to test in on these things by waiting for for the man boobs. We've got to check them sooner than this. So this is a really, really indicator of just hyper, hyper levels of testosterone therapy and a massive amount of conversion increased libido. And I put a question mark here, because, again, they're talking about estrogen. Bile actually may be beneficial for libido. I think it's that sweet spot, just like it is for women. If women have too much estrogen, we don't feel good, and if we have too little estrogen, we don't feel good. And it seems to be, based on what I've been reading, that men are the same way. If we really drop it down low, we're going to make men feel menopausal. They're going to have hot flashes and night sweats and mood swings and not want sex. And nothing works, right? So I think we need a modicum of estradiol. We just don't want those levels to be soaring. It seems that this estrogen, high estrogen level, their high estradiol levels, are highest in the 45 to 65 year range. So again, 65 and older don't seem to experience it quite as much. I don't know if they just don't have as much suns or as much of the aromatase or what have you, but they're just not converting it as much. Higher in sleep apnea patients, higher in obese men. I forgot to add here, also higher in your men who are getting injectable testosterone. So I would categorize under that either injectable or pellets, right? There's really not a great consensus on what the cutoff is for estradiol. What's an acceptable estradiol? I don't know, but the studies that I was looking at were looking at probably an optimal level between 35 to 45 ish. And then one of the other studies that was referencing that when they would start anastrozole therapy was if their estradiol level was greater than 65 or if it was greater than 42 with symptoms accompany. So just something to keep in mind as you're checking your patients, but like you're not going to be screwing your patients over if your threshold is 50, you know, or if your threshold is 35 I think that's okay. Just establish something kind of in your mind and your health practice where you're most comfortable sort of intervening.

Speaker 4  50:41
Okay, so this was interesting because it pisses me off my my daughters and I are always making fun of like little Brooklyn Accents over here. So it really upsets me that we think of testosterone purely for men and we think of estradiol purely for women. But in my experience, Mother Nature doesn't make any mistakes. I was studying progesterone in men actually, which might be another topic that we want to discuss at some point. But you could actually superimpose progesterone levels in men on top of progesterone levels in women at various age groups. And you can actually superimpose those scatter graphs. It's pretty remarkable. So men need progesterone as well. Men need estradiol as well. Why seems to be beneficial for libido? Again, we've always been taught that it's testosterone that is the driver of libido, when, in fact, it seems that if we are lowering that estradiol super significantly, that it actually may adversely affect men's libido, dating and maintaining bone mass, tissue repair. So we'd always look at serum estradiol levels. Is probably the easiest way to assess, but it's kind of negating. What is the cytoplasmic levels? What are the tissue levels of estradiol? So when we see testosterone, excuse me, we have a traumatic brain injury. For example, we see that peripheral aromatization of testosterone to make estradiol at the location of the tissue, to facilitate that tissue repair and to facilitate that anti inflammatory benefit. So there is some of that peripheral tissue conversion, which is interesting. There's a role in spatial memory. So when we leave men alone, on their testosterone alone, they have better spatial memory. They will get better verbal memory and verbal recall with testosterone plus an Astros. So I found that interesting as well. So again, it's not one stop shop. We've got to kind of look at that whole global clinical presentation, where is our patient needing the most help, and that can kind of help to dictate, should we aromatize or not, or should we block aromatization or not? It's important in gonadotropin release, right? So whether that estradiol is too high or too low is going to be signaling to that feedback week, to the hypothalamus and subsequently to the to the pituitary. Should we be making more of these sex hormones or not? Again, a target range somewhere in the order of like 30 to 45 and then this was a new phenomenon as well, but I was happy to see it again in some of the literature, I usually say in the literature, in the literature, but I put all the references at the end of the talk. So if you wanted to pull the articles, they're actually fairly easy to digest. So the testosterone to estradiol ratio, if you go into Omni calculator online, if you just even type in your Google search bar, right, testosterone to estradiol ratio. There's a calculator called Omni calculator that I have found to be pretty reliable. So you just grab your patients labs in front of you and you say, okay, the testosterone is 450 and his estradiol level is 62 and kind of look at what that ratio is looking like. I've seen ratio reference ranges anywhere from 10 to one to 13 to one, you know. So somewhere in there seems to be appropriate if you're having something much lower than 10 to one, it means you've got too much estradiol running around, and patients, physiologically are going to do better when that testosterone estradiol ratio is a bit higher. So if we look here was just an interesting quote that I grabbed from one of the articles because I was just honestly too damn lazy to type it all out verbatim, so here we go scrap lipid from the interwebs. So benefits of estradiol and healthy males irrespective of testosterone, so regardless of what their testosterone level, they're going to do well with adequate estradiol for bone mass and quality and anchor levels, right? So she's going to be one of our calming friends and keep us from starting bar fights, right? But if we look at the estradiol and testosterone together, so looking at that testosterone estradiol ratio, we're going to see better libido, improved cognitive functions, increased muscle mass, enhanced loss of fat mass. This may be true for women as well, and we're looking at this in the setting of men, but then I just academically put in my numbers, and I'm like, shit, I've got too much estrogen being on hormone replacement therapy. So it's, it's like, All right, I've got to balance these levels out, and I'm probably going to feel less squishy, have less fat around the middle, and so forth. So I think it can be true for women as well. But I haven't seen the studies there in and I've done a lot of research for female hormone replacement therapy. So this would be curious to sort of do a study in your practice to see if that benefits women, as far as a ratio, as well, increased basal metabolic rate, increase fat, oxygen, oxidation, reduce cardiovascular markers. And I think this is really, really big on the field, when we're considering, like, how are we helping heart health? There's so many docs who are fearful again, because of urban myths and legends that testosterone is killing our hearts and so forth, and that really just may not be true, particularly with this intima media. Carotid thickness or CI MT is a really big indicator for strokes and heart attack and sudden cardiac death. So that's a really, really cool thing to be looking at. So that might be a target you want to keep an eye on. All right, what are some of the benefits of using these blocks? So the one that's primarily used out in I think most circles, is anastrozole. There's also literazol, which is a newer agent, still third generation aromatase inhibiting fairly minimal side effects. With either of those, you do see some tamoxifen. Tamoxifen is not an aromatase blocker. It's actually a selective estrogen receptor modulator. We'll get into some of the differences there. But when I'm talking about aromatase inhibition using either a I as an abbreviation or a z is an Astros all primarily talking about an Astros all so just for your own edification, but you could probably super impose le trace all on most of this. It stimulates the production of LH, FSH, thereby lowering Estro diet. Or, excuse me, so if we just use an Astros all, let's say we're using this in the absence of testosterone therapy, per se, it's going to stimulate LH and FSH, because it's lowering estradiol. When we have a lower estradiol level, the brain sees that and says we need more hormone production, so it'll increase that LH and FSH secretion, which will in turn stimulate those sertoli and lighting cells and help us to produce sperm, but also to produce more testosterone. Remember, those guys come from different signals different parts of the of the testes. It's sort of mixed. It looks like there's maybe a better sperm amount, but some studies show better motility and form, and others don't, you know, not showing a significant difference. So that that one, I would say the jury's still out a little bit on but it's, it's curious, especially for your men who want to preserve fertility, that maybe starting them on a low dose and Astros all might be beneficial, as opposed to testosterone therapy, which would suppress sperm production, so it can likely cause testosterone levels to go up without testosterone replacement therapy. And it looks like the use of an Astros all on its own for this element gets you to a physiologic level. But they didn't define what is physiologic level, right? Are you going to get to 302 which technically puts you outside of the range of testosterone deficiency, but it's not really optimized. Are we looking at levels of like, 700 800 where you're really feeling good? So that's what I couldn't glean from that literature. But maybe if I dug down a little deeper into results, I'd find it, but I didn't see it. Can't delay the closure of epiphyseal plates prior to puberty or during earlier puberty. So this will be for your little little males, right? So your young men, who are coming in and they're smaller in stature, slower growth curve, their peers, are all passing them, you may want to consider a little bit of an Astros all to kind of help delay some of that epiphyseal plate closure and help them get a longer growth curve, so not necessarily faster per se, but a little longer. And then using that with some growth hormone or other gonadotropin peptides may help as well, might help delay that puberty again for those short stature boys, really mixed benefit for gynecomastia. We kind of originally, I think the idea was like, oh, shoot, your men are growing breast. Let's put them on a Masters all, and that's going to reverse it. It doesn't reverse it. Maybe it stops it. But really, most of the time it's because your men are hyper dosed, right? They're overdosed on the testosterone. So lower the offending agent don't necessarily just block right and long term use does not seem to affect bone mineral density. Again, there are a couple of earlier studies that showed maybe it did, but then now it's saying, No, it doesn't. So you just have to, like, kind of pick out through the literature and see what seems to be making most sense for gentlemen. So again, that masters often raise a testosterone level because it blocks the formation of estradiol stimulate, thereby stimulating FSH and LH, stimulating testosterone production. Daily dosing might be up to one milligram po daily. Oh, another type.

Speaker 4  1:00:14
So, so that said, when we're dealing with testosterone replacement therapy and aromatase inhibition. We're typically doing like point five milligrams three times a week, as opposed to a one milligram daily. But if you're using it for building a gentleman's testosterone solely without testosterone itself, it looks like it's a 24 hour physiologic restoration. So we're getting those numbers up there to physiologic range. Again, whatever that range is. Based on that study, I didn't see if they gave me an actual serum testosterone level. They just said physiologic levels were restored and so, but you would need to do daily dosing to sustain that, and then we're not getting super physiologic levels. So this is nice. So even for your gentleman who maybe takes some testosterone, but they get up to like, 2000 you know, or 1500 they're super, super high levels, bring them back down. Maybe just try a little an Astros. All they might respond really well. Okay, so talking about different aromatase inhibitors, what are the things that can work? So anastrozole, we've been mentioning is a third generation aromatase inhibitor, point five milligrams three times a week, or up to one milligram daily. So as I was starting in this venture, I'm just kind of reading articles, and they're like, yeah, just give her. Give an Astros all one milligram a day. Okay, I guess that's what we use for women. Sure. Why not? But it can cause some weakness, headaches, hot flashes, night sweats. It typically won't, though, because one of the benefits of an Astros all seems to block some of that aroma, taste, but not plummeting women or not plummeting men's estradiol levels so low that they feel like a menopausal woman. So I think we're still like point five three times a week, or even five times a week, one just back off on your dosing of the testosterone, right? But also, then you can play around with that anastrozole and probably not cause them too many side effects. Most of the studies showed that there were not a lot of side effects or adverse effects from being on anastrozole. However, with tamoxifen, I think the opposite is true. I think that most gentlemen have quite significant symptoms of like night sweats and flushing and abdominal weight gain and weakness and muscle loss and sexual dysfunction. And I see this primarily with my gentlemen with prostate cancer, who've been placed on Tamoxifen, and they're really blocking those hormone levels. And it's, it's they're not happy. They they feel like shit. So it's just not ideal. Um, so it's one of those things I would be more cautious of use of tamoxifen, unless your patients coming to you, maybe from another practice, they're just transitioning care, and they want you to continue on what they've been using, because it's worked great. It's working. I leave you alone for To that end, I have some patients on oral Premarin. I hate it. I think it's the worst type of estrogen therapy you can implement. But they're happy they've been on it for 25 years. Who am I to tell me? Right?

Speaker 4  1:03:16
Sorry, I'm still trying to help that throat. Okay, so let's talk about Tim. Tim is a natural element. It stands for di angelil methylene or methane. It comes from cruciferous vegetables like broccoli, brussel sprouts. But in order to get enough aroma taste inhibition from broccoli and Brussels sprouts, you need to eat like four pounds a day, and nobody will want to live in the same household with you if you are cooking up four pounds of broccoli a day in your kitchen, absolutely not. So while it's not a bad thing to be eating these things, I think you can't get enough to get that aroma, taste inhibition benefit, but it is available over the counter so you can be on like full scripts or one of these other elements get healthy. There's a variety of different forums where you can make a recommendation of a certain brand of dim to your patients, they can get that appropriate brand and not just go to like, you know, the grocery store, Walmart or wherever, and get, like, knock off brand, right? We want a good, reputable, quality brand that doesn't have contaminants in it. But what it's doing is actually pushing that conversion pathway. Instead of going from testosterone to estradiol, we're kind of pushing that estradiol then to become 208 estrone, which can then be methylated and removed. So that's going to be a better ability to clear utilized hormones, instead of just leaving them floating around for resorption and deposition into fat tissues. So that's a really good tool. The other great tool, if you've never been to my menopause seminar, you should do it. So I just gave it this last weekend. It'll be up on my website, and the next week or so, the girls are just revising little parts of it, and going to go ahead and post it on my website for purchase, is calcium Z blue Coate. So the person who taught me about this is my nurse practitioner, who's amazing. She specializes in detoxification pathways, methylation pathways. So she great, gave a great talk on the Sunday's lectures about about aromatase. You know, clearance, hormone clearance, how your Cytochrome p4, 50 pathway works, and so forth. So calcium D, glucarate is a fantastic tool for helping to block some of this, and what it's doing is not really blocking aromatase. It's actually just inhibiting that reuptake of estrogen in that liver. I think it's phase two metabolism. So it's helping to augment that liver metabolism, and as a result, then lowering those estrodial levels. So actually, having looked now at my testosterone to estradiol ratio, I'm actually going to start on calcium, D, glucarate As soon as I can get my little patty pause on some so it's really cool. As we know more, we should, you know, know better. We should do better, right? Okay, so should we be blocking this or not? One of the really cool studies that looked at this, this was a very interesting to me on a number of levels, they look at 1700 men again. This is referenced in my references slide at the end. I just hate putting the little tiny references at the bottom of the slide. So they looked at 1700 men, but only like 55 of those men actually needed aromatase inhibition. Only about two and a half percent had elevated estrophile levels, either over 65 or greater than 42 with symptoms. So I think that's that's a take home point, right? Not every man who's on testosterone therapy needs aromatase inhibition. That's where you want to follow your objective data. Look at your labs every few months, see what they're doing and also based on clinical presentation. So if you're checking their labs, that's also an opportunity for you to check in with them clinically. Hey, brother, you gain like, 15 pounds, yeah, bro, like, I'm at the gym and I'm getting bigger, right? Or, yeah, I'm getting really heavy, like my pants don't fit. I'm having to go up a size. Okay? Well, then that those weight gains are not the same, right? So we need to kind of look in on our men as well. So they were the men who needed it. These 55 or so men who needed it were put on an Astros all point five milligrams, three times a week, and it looks like the average time to have to start an Astros all was almost a year after initiation of the testosterone replacement therapy. So they were not having to go on it within a month of starting therapy. And again, this is what I was taught, is that usually, within about two months, they're not going to feel great on their testosterone, they're going to start feeling really dumpy, grumpy pregnant woman like and it looks like at least in this study, that wasn't the case. It really took a while for it to start processing into higher serum levels of estradiol. Of the men who were started on in Astros, all 88% of them showed a lowering of estradiol down to physiologic levels, so something between like 30 and 45 and nuns showed such severe lowering that the e2 levels plummeted to those sub physiologic levels. So that's really good. So again, we're not going to overdose these patients to where they now have the effects of, you know, the hot flashes and night sweats and so forth. There were no adverse side effects with this particular regimen. So I think that's important. But what's also important to remember is that was with 55 men who were treated with an Astros all. So can you extrapolate that out to general male population? Kind of a stretch, but again, something to consider that maybe this is an appropriate dosing where we're not bottoming out their estradiol levels. It seems that the lowering of the estrodial levels did not necessarily improve their libido, but it also didn't detract so it was just kind of no change. And it seemed like there was no clear cut off of when to implement in Astros all therapy. So while they put in these sort of regimen of greater than 65 or over 42 it sounds like it was kind of still arbitrary. So even they weren't happy in their own study to say, like, unequivocally, this is when you need to start men. Is like, Hey, these are the guidelines we use. Maybe this is going to help you, but we need to study it further. And I think that's a really respectable conclusion to draw so that we have respect for kind of what do these studies actually mean, and how can we push that forward to our population and practice again. As much as I wanted to dive into 87 different articles, I really just maybe found five or six. I think the newest article I found was 2021. It's quite a few blogs and blogs things like this out there from various clinics that are touting why they're doing testosterone therapy. Better come with us. We have peptides, we have dim. We use this, we use that. So I don't know how much they were based in science, because, again, it's somebody's like editorial. It's like, if I write something up like this and publish it, well, that's not a scientific study. It's based on what I've read and what I know to be true in practice. So I'm not saying they're full of crap. I'm just saying that also from those blogs, you can glean some information, maybe some key tips that you want to try and practice, particularly if it's not going to harm a patient, but maybe not something that's perfectly like evidence based, and it's where we get into the art of medicine, rather than the science. Again, as with other types of HRT. Much of this practice has been just based on myths and legends and you know, hey, this is what I've done, so this is what you're supposed to do, which is not necessarily true, right? I mean, we do a lot of things that we shouldn't necessarily do. We used to deliver babies without washing our hands between patients, and we had super high maternal mortality rates. Now we wash our hands between patients and use gloves. Imagine that. So I don't know if you knew that historically, but we used to as doctors who know everything right? As doctors, we would go in and do a delivery, and then we would go down to the morgue and examine the patient who died, maybe postpartum fever, which is basically, you know, postpartum endometritis, and then we'd go back up to the floor to go deliver another baby. This was before the advent of gloves, and certainly before the idea of hand washing. And we had really high maternal mortality rates versus our midwife counterparts that were like, Dude, why are you guys killing all of your patients? And it's because they would wash their hands in between, and they can get all the blood off of their arms and so forth. And we were just flippantly going around all over the place spreading E coli to our patients vaginas and uterine Uteri, which is fantastic. So we can always learn more as physicians, right? A little is understood about the benefits of each of the sex hormones, particularly for the opposing gender, right? So this, we're not going to get into transgender and how many genders are out there. We're not having that discussion today. So assuming there's male and female, men have benefit from female hormones in their system, and women have benefit from male hormones in their system. They're just oftentimes at varying levels, right? So my women, I like them, to have A, D, H, E, A, S, level of about 200 to 250 with men, it's got to be about 400 to 450 women average testosterone, somewhere between 25 and 5070, somewhere in that range, versus men again, 700 to 900 1100 they're going to feel really good so, but we still need our other counterparts. They're balancing each other. It's a symphony, not just a one. You know, it's not a one man band, and we've got to have all these little players. It appears that estradiol plays this important role in tissue support and repair, and an Astros all has its own benefits, just as a mono therapy.

Speaker 4  1:12:31
All right, so what are my overall recommendations? Check your labs. Get a good idea of the lay of the land. Figure out what's going on with their patient. I just had a young gentleman. He's 28 he says, I just, I think I need testosterone. He really struggles with mental health issues. He's kind of up and down, probably bipolar, so he's working on that mental health aspect of things. But he's like, I just need testosterone. Like, oh God, if you're in a manic state, me giving you testosterone. So it'll be the worst thing I can do, right? But what are the rest of his labs? What's his liver clearance, what's his homocysteine? What's going on there? So until he gets labs, I'm not touching you, right? So just because a gentleman comes in with low energy, fatigue or libido, doesn't automatically mean testosterone is the problem. Again. Only treat if needed. I tend to treat hormones with a very big respect. I don't want to just put every man I see on testosterone therapy, especially if they've got sleep apnea, if they've got uncontrolled diabetes or sub optimal diabetes, right? I like my folks to be with an A 1c of about 5.5 or or less, down to about five if they're getting into the four ranges, they're not getting enough glucose to their tissues. So optimize those things as a priority. Again, you might be able to use the NASCARs all as a primary therapy. Follow labs, she says again, so make sure that when you're implementing a therapy or a change kind of lifestyle, whatever it is, check labs. Again, see if what you're doing is working, and then if it's not do something different, I really like to avoid those super therapeutic levels of testosterone. Again, more is not always better. Want to keep an eye on that. Continue to analyze. Keep your eyes out for those that literature or maybe you guys are more funded than I am, and can make your own literature, case studies, small case trials. In your practice, I keep saying I'm going to do it, I lack the organizational skills to probably facilitate it and then follow labs. Like follow labs. And again, I like following those labs because it gives me that opportunity to meet back with that patient and see what their clinical presentation is, as well as their objective findings. So it gives me that combination, which, again, speaks to that art of medicine, as opposed to just chasing numbers, right? So, really, really important, okay, and then assessing the patients individually. So again, that interval of checking labs I usually like to check every three months or so. If your gentleman is, like, stable and he's been on the same therapy for a while, he's busy. He's traveling for work. He's in Bermuda. Fantastic. Don't come back from Bermuda just to check your damn labs. I'll see you in six months or a year. So I have some gentlemen who are very comfortable with that, but when I'm initiating therapy, I like to really keep a close eye on them and make sure they're not having, like, super huge metabolic swings in their levels. Look at absolute values and these ratios, I think that that's a really, really important key factor that I picked up from studying for this. And I would consider, really that Troche is my personal favorite for gentlemen, that I would say, second would be topical, so your gels or creams, and then lastly, would be the injectable, either within, you know, just a depo injection versus the pellet therapy would be my least favorite clinical presentation and objective, I think I'm beat not horse to death, and then optimize your detox pathways. Make sure they're on milk thistle. Do they need to be on? On a liver gallbladder blend like the it's like bovine liver complex something. There's a lot of these agents out there that will help dandelion root is another great liver detoxing method, so make sure that's optimized. Optimize their methylation. Just being on methylated B vitamins and methylated multivitamin can help optimize their vitamin D, limit the estrogenizing exposures, alcohol methylates, plastics getting so even just touching receipts from like CVS or, you know, bonds, wherever you grocery shopping, just touching the plastic bags, touching the receipts, remember, our skin is our largest organ, so we are always absorbing through our skin, everything that we touch is getting into our system. And it's a beautiful thing because it's telling us about other and self, and am I in danger, right? But then we're absorbing all of these things as well, and if our detox pathways suck, we should just also limit the amount that's coming in. So again, trans fats, ultra processed foods, alcohol, sorry, alcohol is only inflammatory. Not that I don't like to enjoy a cocktail here and there, but I also know it's going to screw me up. So as long as I'm willing to accept that consequence, that I don't need to go up or down on my hormones, I need to stop stepping on the thumbtack, right, stop doing the thing that's harming okay? So that kind of concludes putting a lot of that together. So hopefully we left enough time for discussion after this is how you can get a hold of me, particularly if you're choosing to do any of my mentorship, or if you want to find out how to get that menopause seminar for how to institute. And that's where I get into actual logistics of these are the lab levels I like to see for my ladies. Here's how you write a prescription for a cream. Here's how you write a prescription for transdermal package, and so forth. I really get into it. So it's a super cool presentation. And then I'm trying to get up to 5000 followers on my Instagram. So if you want to follow me, it would be an honor. I'd be super, super appreciative of that. It's just a personal goal. It has no bearing on any part of my life otherwise, except just I needed something to put on my vision board. So again, here are some of those references, pretty limited, guys. It's just that one page of references, because I didn't find a whole ton of stuff out there. But you know, it's hopefully going to get bigger.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:14
Okay, so much, not, not very much information in the chat or questions, just doctor or Stefan, micro dosing, injections, alternating these, or even daily of testosterone cypionate 10 to 12 units daily for men at 200 milligrams for ml. I'm not sure what you mean by 10 units is, what 1/10 of a cc?

Speaker 4  1:18:42
Yeah, it's point one mL, okay? And then yeah, and I've had some patients do the micro dosing. I think it just comes back to to be honest, and to all the gentlemen in the room, I love my mans. Men's are amazing, but y'all are big fat babies too. So a lot of times there's some reticence to do, like daily injections, or three times a week injections. Now some do, particularly if you can get it through, like an insulin syringe, so very small, like tiny, tiny caliber syringe. So like our BPC patients and that sort they are using it mostly daily. But with the testosterone cypionate, it's an oil base, it's a really thick solution, so sometimes you're having to use a wider caliber needle, and it hurts. It's also got to be intramuscular, not sub q, so that makes it a little bit more sensitive from to bruising. But yeah, I'll have patients who take it several times through the week, as opposed to just a once a week dosing of like 200 milligrams per ml, and then they trough towards the end of the week. They're feeling pretty crummy by Saturday, if they dose themselves on Monday.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:44
All right. And then there's mention of a certain supplement companies making Nano, nano emulsions available. I won't mention this because, since we still have the CME going for compounding pharmacies, sublingual Lh is not suppressed, so less rise in estradiol. So Doctor Nario, do you have any anything online?

Speaker 3  1:20:08
Yeah. So a great presentation. Dr Jackie. One of the things that was mentioned here was you mentioned that you wanted to fix the metabolic issues first, or correct me if I'm wrong before giving them testosterone. Is that something that you're emphasizing, or you can treat them in concomitantly with the comorbidity? I think you mentioned about diabetes and sleep apnea. I think

Speaker 4  1:20:38
so. If so, there's best practice right? In my optimal ideal world is that we would totally get your diabetes and your sleep apnea under control before we implement testosterone therapy. But in my practical experience, what I find is, if you don't even have the damn motivation to get off the couch, and you're falling asleep snoring on the couch because you can't get your butt to the gym or make a meal because you're like snack foods, because you don't have the energy to do it, then I treat them concomitant often, but I really emphasize it, like, brother, this is not going to be the only tool we've got to do this as a whole picture, and that's why I developed, like, the holistic, integrative type approach, is because I think we've really compartmentalized medicine where we're like, Okay, well, I'm your testosterone doctor, but You need to go to your endocrinologist for your diabetes, and then you need to go to your gastroenterologist to fix your gut health and your hepatologist for your liver. And unfortunately, our patients are running all over ragged, and one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. So if we can have a whole understanding of how these metabolic pathways play off of each other, and then that detoxing clearance, blood sugar metabolism, hypo chronic hypoxia, all affects those testosterone metabolic pathways and clearance, then we have a better approach at implementing therapy. Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:21:55
one of the bigger controversies when I was lecturing we I was lecturing in a firm during the the spring conference, one of the bigger questions that they had was this controversy about, should we treat low T while they have sleep apnea, right? So I think the worry there is actually increasing the hematocrit, hemoglobin, hematocrit when these patients are hyper perfused. So one thing that was brought up there that definitely you can't it's just a matter of really monitoring the testosterone levels and also the H and H while you're trying to fix, of course, weight loss, and also the the sleep apnea issue. So but anyway, to answer that question, you definitely do address that, and at the same time, monitor the whole situation, while you're actually addressing the problem. One question here is experience with the different forms of testosterone, such as intranasal and on the can of weight version. So these are probably the newer ones that are out there. Do you have any experience in relation to to to treating your teas in your men?

Speaker 4  1:23:02
Yeah, I would say I don't have any experience with the intranasal or some of these newer formulations. I think there's a lot to be said for it, though, um, I looked back at the intranasal progesterone study, was only like 11 patients, but it seemed to have really good bioavailability, good absorption. So probably true for testosterone. Progesterone is one of the heavier molecular weight hormones. Testosterone is a little bit lighter. So I think if progesterone is perfusing across that nasal mucosa, probably testosterone would too, you know, maybe having better brain effects, I don't know. And then with that peripheral tissue conversion to estradiol for tissue repair, maybe better for cognitive health. So I think this is, this is where it gets so exciting and innovative, is that there isn't just one way to do it again. I didn't even know about trophies when I started this six years ago. I was like, Wait, Troche, What? What? How do you spell that? I had to have my my compounding pharmacist. Like, spell it out for me so I can write the damn prescription. So it was a matter of just learning and having that clinical experience of seeing that my patients had less of that peak trough phenomenon with the daily trophies, as opposed to being on an injection and having a peak trough was all I had known as injectable. So I think it's interesting. It's it's going to be cool times in the next 1015, years, as we're learning more about it.

Speaker 3  1:24:25
Right? So for the intranasal, I think the claim to fame to that is the less suppression of, of course, your own indigenous endogenous testosterone production. The only drawback with intranasal, though it's three times a day you're talking to men who's hardly even taking one supplement a day. And also the side effect, right? So really, the compliance issue with men is one of the bigger questions there. And the side effect, one of the side effects of this intra nasal one is the stuffiness of the nasal passages, so you're basically almost like really congested when you're using this. But as I've said, it's one of the I haven't done much of this, but really we're worried about for sperm production.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:10
Also, $800

Speaker 3  1:25:11
a month. I've had to, yeah, for sure, so, but I'm sure there's a compounding pharmacy out there that's probably going to wiggle their cell themselves, through it. So

Speaker 4  1:25:21
yeah, and with my trophies. Because, again, this is my menopause seminar where I do a cost breakdown of like, how much do these things cost? Because everybody imagines that, you know, compounding pharmacies are so expensive, and it's about 60 or 75 bucks a month. 55 to 75 somewhere in that ballpark, a month for the trophies. And so that's not that expensive, really. Again, I can pee away 110 bucks just on sushi tonight. So, and I have no shame in doing that. I will spend that all day long. But you know, when you consider like, Hey, this is something that's going to get me that motivation. It's going to help me fix the plumbing underneath the sink. I can, you know, change out and organize my garage. I can finish the PowerPoint presentation for work. I think it's super worth it. I do a lot of bio toxin illness work as well, and one of the therapies is to use VIP NASA spray. You have to follow lipase levels. You have to worry about pancreatic dysfunction, and you have to use it 12 times a day. Keep it in the refrigerator. I am not near a refrigerator 12 times a day. If I were near a refrigerator 12 times a day, I'm gonna weigh 422 pounds like so it's not to me, it's not practical. And again, it's like 700 bucks a month or something. So the practicality of some of these approaches, while I don't think they're bad ideas, I agree with you. I mean, it's what do they say? Like, 75% of male appointments are set by their wives, right? Men don't initiate their health care. They come in because their wife told them, I'm feeling fine. I don't know why she made this appointment. She said I should check in, you know? So then to also ask them, Hey, do this thing. Don't worry. If you're traveling for work, just tap it in your carry on. And then some rogue TSA officer throws in the trash can and there goes 700 bucks. I mean, they likely won't, because it's a prescription, but you follow what I mean, like, the practicality of it is going to be difficult. I think, to be compliant. You're,

Speaker 3  1:27:10
you're, you're being very generous, about 75% I think, yeah, I think, I think it's higher than that. But okay, we'll take it trying to get the benefit of the doubt. Well, the other one with the and the cannabis one, I think the claim to fame to that is it's a PO that is not affecting liver function. So methyl testosterone was out there once that actually has been known to aggravate liver enzymes because of the alkylation that's involved when you convert testosterone and it goes through the first first pass effect of the liver. And this newer one actually is claiming that I haven't used it, it's actually not going to elevate the these liver enzymes. And also even helps with NAFLD. That's one of the things that was shown in the studies for this, and again, injectable version of the indican weight. You just do it the three to four times a year, and you maintain such testosterone levels. So I don't know if Doctor del if you have experience with that, but I don't have any, but it's just something that's out there that's starting to make waves. So

Speaker 2  1:28:24
one of my colleagues has been using the the the testosterone decano Eight product, but all the patients that I share with with him are requiring 800 milligrams, you know, the of the product daily, and that, you got to be wealthy to afford that. Yeah, it's like crazy expensive.

Speaker 3  1:28:55
Yeah, I've, No, I've never heard of the dose, but that is a huge dose. And yes, of course, the price, well,

Speaker 2  1:29:00
they start them on 200 and, you know, nothing raises. And five of my male patients are on stabilized on 800 milligrams. What

Unknown Speaker  1:29:14
did they do for work that they can afford?

Speaker 2  1:29:18
I'm always curious. They've got a really rich oldest brother, and he's taking care of his siblings.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:29
I need a rich older brother. I just have a broke older brother.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:33
I think kids will tell you

Speaker 5  1:29:35
a great presentation. Jackie, I may I made a little bit interject here, I tried

Speaker 4  1:29:43
calling you earlier Doctor halasa and we missed each other. I was seeing patients all day. Oh, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:29:48
don't worry about it, yeah. But I just want to add more to what I don't like to give in the beginning the end products of the of the six hormone, which is the Esther. Esther, estrogen and testosterone as much as we if we can look at what the lab and I think when I have a visit with Stefan, I like Stefan way of doing things, where she is looking at all the all the labs, level of DHEA and prognolon and progesterone and and seeing those, the executive the up, those up the upper molecules, which are the food of the of the six hormone, the progesterone, the DHEA, the pregnant on, those are, those are the precursors of the of the ends and and the reason, because, when You give them the ends, you end up causing gonad and atrophy. And so I think it's better if we test all those ingredients and see what's deficient. And I'd like to start with progesterone and prognolon. I will start with prognolon in the beginning and and then go to burgeon and see the DHEA and feed that make sure that that's been normalized before I start giving testosterone and estrogen. And if we can, I mean, I know, you know some, some people, they want to give that rabbit effect so the patients feel comfortable and good and and then he will come to your clinic. You know that some, some, some way of, you know, making them feeling good. But the same time, while you're doing that, try to work on those upstream ingredients and wean down the downstream as much as you can when, when things, it's getting normalized. And as you said, detoxing the body and improving the liver function test, because liver is very important to get rid from all these Exxon estrogens and all this bad, bad steroids. So yes, everything that you do for improving the liver function will help to get rid from all those wasting adding cyclodextrin. It's very important. That's something I entertain a lot because those Exxon estrogen and microplastics and all those you cannot get read from it easily, cyclodextrin will be the answer, along with improving the deliver function, because those psych reduction works like high density lipoprotein, but better even, because it takes care for xenoestrogen micro plastics and all the wastes, and dumps them into the liver, and some of them to throw the urine. And sweating and sauna is very important. So when you have a clinic, the optimal clinic has to have some gym next to it, like what Stefan is doing and what I designed for Chronic Disease Prevention management, because that gym next to the clinic for integrative doctors, it definitely helped to add value to Your practice. So I'd like Stefan way of of of practicing medicine. I stayed there one day. And definitely he is helping a lot of people, but his methodology is, it's, it's more comprehensive and to the teeth, but adding, as I said, you know, start with supplements, feeding the executive, especially proger, strong prognolon, progesterone is very important. I don't like to give I don't think it's the right thing to give testosterone without progesterone, because pressure stone would help to put the brakes over the army taste itself. Also it helps to put the break of the conversion of the testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Because we know there is a problem with excessive dihydrotest here on itself and causing hair loss and possibly some prosthetic problems. So feeding the body with produce strong, I think Peter Dr, what's her name, Peterson, she's here. She will definitely raise her hand and say, hey, where you miss progesterone, and she's a walking progesterone, by the way, and you can see that she's doing very good with it. You can see her hair is thick and long, and she feel happy and all that because she's feeding the executive molecule versus the end users. Because those end users, as much as you don't give them. I mean, the end those, those estrogen and testosterone, as much as you don't give them, it's better, because then you rely on your endogenous six hormones. So that's my take and this, but your, your presentation was, was to the teeth. The other thing is transgendering thing. That's something we need to talk about. People are transgendering and giving the six hormone extras for female and men, this will compromise the metabolism, and they will end up with metabolic syndrome. Because men has tested on dominance, and when you give them extra estrogen, you counteract the testosterone, then they will end up with metabolic syndrome. And a lot of things I have a book on that's called estrogen dominance syndrome. Actually, it leads to depopulation and decrease the number of men by this estrogen dominance it has effect on even Y chromosomes and X chromosome, where estrogen dominance and oxidative stress that comes along with it, leads to reducing the number of Y chromosomes, and then you have a lot of female more than men, and then you have the depopulation rate. So anyway, this the transgendering versus embracing the sex hormone treatment, which I think that's the best way of doing. That needs also some sort of a campaign from the doctors to encourage embracing gender versus transgendering and treating it the way as we are doing is to normalize the sex pheromone

Speaker 6  1:35:56
Dr Sanders or Dr Clearfield without overdosing. Have you encountered causing cardiac disease with routine testosterone replacement?

Bill Clearfield  1:36:09
Actually, I find the opposite. I find that it actually improves cardiac disease and we have much less cardiac incidents. This sort of came to a head in our practice here. I think it was two summers ago. I had a patient of ours call on a Monday, said he had a had a heart attack one Friday night, and he was in the hospital over the weekend, and had a had a stent placed in. He just wanted to let me know, and I remarked to my assistant, who'd been with me about six years at this point, I said, When was the last time we had a patient that had a heart attack? And, you know, I come from a place where we had three mis a week in our practice, and so

Speaker 6  1:36:52
is there any concern of increasing adrenaline as a result of the hormonal replacement? I

Bill Clearfield  1:37:00
it's not been my experience. I don't know anybody else.

Speaker 4  1:37:04
I haven't seen it in my practice. I actually have a cardiologist who works here at the practice as well, and he really likes optimizing hormones for the benefits of dyslipidemia and cardiovascular markers. I think we're seeing more of this in the women's space. It's been a huge controversy, I agree, in the in the man space, but I think a lot of that concern comes from the days of overusing steroids, over using testosterone, in the 80s, where everybody's bulking up, and we were seeing, you know, the hypo gonad, gonadism, you know, the the shrinking of the cystic the atrophy and then cardiovascular events. So I think just when we're super therapeutic, we're not doing our patients and benefits. But I would argue that I haven't done it enough in my practice to really see, like, a major change of like, oh yeah. None of my patients are having heart attacks anymore, not really. I don't know that I could make that statement, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:04
we've, we've seen very few patients with mis you know, here, you know, and I have patients that are in their 80s, that, you know, using testosterone for 20 years. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:38:16
one of our compounding pharmacies, we have at least 20,000 men on testosterone replacement, and for a four year period, we had no one with there was regularly coming to the pharmacy and getting their hormones filled that had a cardiovascular event. But then we we also use, you know, arteries to fix the glycocalyx.

Speaker 5  1:38:51
I may challenge that. I really may challenge that the practice that doctor Stephan and Doctor William Clearfield and Doctor Jackie and Doctor naryu, they're not really just throwing testosterone by itself without looking for optimizing their health. If you really throw testosterone without looking for all other things. We're talking about the weight loss and optimizing the sex hormone and and reducing the estrones and looking and checking and and balancing it in a normal Yes, you will end up with stroke. So let's give the right answer, yes, because this, this test your own throwing testosterone to a man and he is obese, and there's fat tissue will convert everything to estrone.

Speaker 2  1:39:34
No, no, I'm I'm not referring to that. This is, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:39:40
there is a point of there. Much of saying is that people this, this person who asked a question, yes, if the patient, if the doctor is not experienced and he's giving testosterone only without, Oh, absolutely,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:54
100% agree,

Speaker 5  1:39:58
yeah. Part of it increasing the hemoglobin part of it, increasing the historians, you will end up with with the problem with it, but as long as you're doing it in a balanced way, that's why Doctor William will never see any case of that, because he's doing it in a right way. That's also right constantly

Speaker 4  1:40:17
dosing. So we're not these super physiologic levels, like some men have asked me, and I'm like, I'm really not the practice for you, right? Like, I don't want your levels floating around at 2020 500 so even in the setting of like, they're working out, they're eating clean, they don't have diabetes, but you're super therapeutic. I think there's still some inflammatory, hormetic effects to these hormones that we we also don't want women on estradiol to their levels being 300 that's why I dislike the use of pellets. I've seen women with levels of 279, 300 on their testosterone. I'm like, What the hell are you doing? Like, that's way, way, way too high, and their estradiol can be upwards of 500 600 women.

Speaker 2  1:40:59
Yeah, great. Well, that's why they tell you not to do the test on a pellet. I think, I think it's the wrong way to go around hormone replacement.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:08
We don't really use the serum levels for especially, yeah, you don't test the serum levels, and the tissue levels are not the same. Usually they'll go by symptoms.

Speaker 3  1:41:24
So just to give you some fresh of the cost of literature here that recently February 2025, FDA has now removed the Black Label on testosterone products in relation to its correlation to their risk of producing increased cardiovascular risk. So the black box, box warning is now removed, and you have to remember this came from the traverse trial, which actually, again, have proven that now, with the stance of FDA, with the with the testosterone, they're neutral, but the only thing that stands with their recommendation is there is still a possible increase in blood pressure. So even the FDA now had folded in terms of the correlation of cardiovascular risks in terms of being part of testosterone profile is gone. So this is fresh off the press, just to give more substance to answer to Doctor crouch about what he was asking for.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:26
Doctor hinario, if you've been at ammg instead of a 4m you would have heard me talk about the traverse trial. Yes, do that. And the problem with the traverse trial was that he they used one product, which was a testosterone 1.62% patch made by the company that and is sponsored by the company that makes that patch, and that's all they used, versus placebo, right, right? You would expect higher blood pressures because those are synthetic at the testosterones,

Speaker 3  1:42:58
right? Well, now again, start right? We can tell our patients about the cardiovascular risk, even FDA saying, Nope.

Speaker 4  1:43:08
And this is what I look at, even with like menopausal hormonal plate replacement therapies, even with crappy estrogen, you're still getting a reduced reduction in mortality. You're going to get a better reduction in mortality statistically, if you use bio identical but even with crap products, you know, synthetic testosterone, synthetic estradiol and so forth, or, you know, conjugated equine estrogens, you're still going to see a benefit. And it's encouraging that they've taken that black box warning off. Now we have to do vaginal estradiol, right if we can, if we can, get on removing that black box, warning about it causing cancer when it doesn't, that would be super for removing fear from the hearts and minds of our patients.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:48
The other

Speaker 3  1:43:51
ones you did mention about the hormones that that there's now a 10 million study showing that. So the controversy of the window of 10 year over 65 this 10 million study for women had actually shown that even they said the crappy estrogen and also the crappy progesterone with Protestants, has still been showing benefits for the for these women. That's why the 65 year old big question of like, don't stop the hormones when they get there. Don't even start it. This makes it I

Speaker 4  1:44:25
tell my patients, you can come off your hormones when you're ready for your tissues to decline. Otherwise, stay on it, maintain those tissues. And if, if I have it my way, I will maintain tissues until I croak it or get hit by a bus and then I go toes up. That's it. I don't want slow, steady tissue decline for the next 40 years. Thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:44
So okay, so one of the raging controversies at ammg is several of the physicians have decided that using estrogen aromatase inhibitors in any form at any time is kin to malpractice, and they don't care if the estradiol levels of men get to 150 or 200 in fact, one of the practitioners himself, he states he takes estradiol seven milligrams a day orally, and that is both tremendous testosterone levels of 2000 and this has been a raging controversy, and he's got a few points that sort of conceded. So we used to control the estrogen estradiol levels. Originally we So way back when, in the Dark Ages, when we first started doing this, we didn't have really any guidelines to go on. We just kind of followed the gym rats, and so we would get testosterone levels to 1500 and we would give aromatase inhibitors, so the estrogens read zero. That didn't work out so well. Then we kind of settled on 15 to 25 as sort of an ideal estradiol level with anything over 40 we would inhibit. Now I've sort of changed it. I've changed up and because we there are some studies that show low, very low estradiol levels created a large, high increase in osteoporosis, in estradiol levels that was, was thought was a cause of cardiac disease actually protects against cardiac disease. And again, you know, it makes sense, you know, there's no shouldn't, shouldn't really be any much different between men and women. And you know when, when you go, go through menopause, you you know, your osteoporosis and heart disease are the, you know, and dementia are the, are the main, main, you know, main maladies. And so my practice now we don't block the estrogen levels at all, unless they have some sort of gynecomastia, some sort of mood disorder, and then some men have better libido and erectile function with high estradiol levels, and some have worse. So that's kind of an individual thing. And other than that, I we leave it alone. Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:47:06
I think it's that clinical presentation, and I think that let's not throw the baby out with the bath water, right? So it was interesting when I was doing this research that they're looking at aroma taste blockers as a primary therapy to help build, you know, test out intrinsic testosterone production. So I found that fascinating. And I think that if we were to look closer at not just estradiol levels, but what is it converting to? Because if we're getting it converted over to that four, oh, estrone, so more of our inflammatory, proliferative type of estrogen, that's when we're going to have higher levels of inflammation, and I think higher levels of symptomatology. So that's why I included in the screen that I pulled back up the, you know, my lab evaluation. I'll often look at either total estrogens or Estro, not only for my women, but also for my men, and see what are they converting what are you what are you doing in there? Are you getting rid of the excess? Are you holding on to it? What does your liver look like and making sure that they're using and clearing, using and clearing. We don't like to just recycle hormones. It's not optimal. So I am really excited to be part of this forum, because I think there's a lot of insight here, and everybody's coming to the table with different clinical experiences. It's been super enlightening. I'm super jazzed, right? Maybe I need to add something

Speaker 5  1:48:22
to Jackie, about your ratio. I think the the 1010, I think is low. I think 10 to one. I think it's good to do for men. 30 to one, testosterone to estrogen. Do you agree with

Speaker 4  1:48:36
some other stuff that said, like 20 to one? I mean, it was kind of a little little bit all over the place. And for me, it was something like a very new concept, because I hadn't even really looked at it in 31

Speaker 5  1:48:46
is the best ratio for men. And if you hear what Dr William Clearfield about people are promoting throwing in the end the ends of the six hormone, which is testosterone, estrogen at high level. At those high level and controlled and balanced with no understanding of the ratio. 2000 3000 testosterone and 500 600 EU, those eventually, they will convert to estrogens and they will lead to inflammation and they will lead to cancer, and they will end up with stroke, so and and so. The whole problem is not the supplements or the sex hormone. The problem is the lack of the right education where it needs to be practiced, right? And if, if, if the FDA enforced into that those doctors has to go through education and certification in order for them to practice six hormone it's better, because than blocking the the treatment itself and also preventing those sport people to just inject themselves with testosterone, because they will end up with stroke and hypertension if they throw themselves, if they're giving themselves 2000 3000 5000 testosterone, trust me, they will end up into the ER.

Speaker 4  1:50:16
This is why it's become my passion, really, to teach providers and particularly my again, my specialty is more in the menopausal world, particularly as I've gone through perimenopause now, and it's freaking nightmare. So to be able to train providers how to responsibly and wholly manage these conditions, I don't want to say ailments necessarily, but they really are. I mean this tissue degeneration, and if we can teach other providers at this level of having a whole understanding of how this affects our global metabolism, our global tissue integrity, rather than, again, this compartmentalized approach of like, okay, go see your cardiologist, go see your endocrinologist, your every kind of ologist. Instead of this integrative like this is affecting all of our tissues. This is why we have these receptors on every single tissue in our body. There's a reason for that, and we have to optimize it in the appropriate physiologic ratios. And so that's why I created the mentorship program I have. That's why it's a shameless plug a little bit, but also why I created that webinar series that's going to be available on my website, if anybody's interested. To really train folks out there. I can only see eight to 10 patients a day. I'm exhausted at the end of the day going through these lab reviews and helping patients understand their own physiology. So if we can teach more providers out there how to do this responsibly, instead of like, oh, I don't know can thing, and I learned to give testosterone. So we're just going to start infecting people on Monday. We're not doing a service to the patient base.

Speaker 5  1:51:49
If you need CME, oh, I can provide you the CME,

Speaker 4  1:51:53
super. I'll talk to you about it after for sure. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:57
there's a couple of questions that, one or two questions that I have here, but I need to end the CME portion of it so, like, so we can get the answer. So you have anything else? Dr Nari or Yeah. So this is,

Speaker 3  1:52:11
again, this is a curious question to knock my list off from the chat. Well, your AI protocol, when would you use that as your first line option to raise testosterone, meaning aromatase inhibitor protocol that you just mentioned? When would you use that as a this is the first, this is the first thing I'm going to do on this patient. Yes,

Speaker 4  1:52:34
I would say for somebody who's moderately impaired, right? So if this is your patient who lacks motivation, concentration, maybe getting a little chubby, you know, the Chubby Hubby, but he's got a level of about 450, 500 but he's just not optimized. I think that might be a great candidate for this, because I've turned away a couple of patients who I'm like, testosterone is not the first line I would use for you. And so I've tried things like maca root and whatever, and then it's kind of BS. Like, it's not getting their levels up, maybe a little squeak, but we're really not moving the needle to where they feel that clinical benefit. But knowing what I know now, like, maybe they're a candidate to just start on a little bit of an Astros all like point five three times a week, or even just that point five every day, or one milligram a day, sort of start low. See what the benefit is. Get a little bit more clinical experience. Have 1020, 30 patients who start at point five three times a week, and point five once a week, or once a day, and then one milligram once a day, and see what that sweet spot is. Then you can come back to them with, I think, a little more education to say, like, Okay, well, I've had, like, so many men use this, and they get really good benefit if you're on one milligram a day, and that'll help raise your testosterone levels. So I, I read these things, and I take them with a grain of salt, I look at who paid for the study, right? And then implement it a little at a time, and I'll let patient. I'm very transparent. I'm like, hey, look, I haven't tried this, but I just read about it. It's supposed to work. You want to give it a shot. And a lot of my patients are game. They're like, Sure. I mean, it's not a permanent thing. We're not, you know, ultimately blocking off any ability to do something else later. Let's try it. Because a lot of my gentlemen as well in my practice are very well read. They're very educated. They may have had a bad experience with testosterone in the past, so they don't necessarily want to be on it. They just know they need to feel better. They're not feeling their greatest um, so I think it's worth a try.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:30
And you're checking

Speaker 5  1:54:32
try to doing esters. Uh, Estro, there's a list of supplement that that are aromatase inhibitors, because anomatase, they get activated with oxidative stress, by the way. And once you start doing iodine, Coronavirus, progesterone and a list of supplement which I can share that in, have diary taste if all of those fail, and still you have high Estonians. Like crazy high like we have a case that Stefan was sharing it to me, he said, Dr Halas, I did everything, iodine, progesterone, prognolon, I did everything. And the patient still is strong, is very high, and only thing that can suppress it is the Esther. Joe Esther, and he returned back to give some some of Esther. So I think you start with all those natural aromatase inhibitors, iodine, progesterone, and all the supplements and and then they fail, you may end up with estraz, but you still need to look at what makes the aroma taste over active. This could be some oxidative stress that is not being taken care or MT, HR or that needs to be and some of them, they're epigenetically genetically, they have aromatase overactive, and that needs to be green as well. Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:55:52
there have been some case reports of that, like a certain family in Japan, I think I saw in the literature. There are some studies of that as well. But it seems to be fairly rare, to just be like a familial genetic aromatase issue specifically, but certainly it can happen. I mean, any gene that's out there you can mutate. But I agree with you, Dr Halas, I think it depends on the severity of clinical symptoms and patients ability for compliance. So while I love like a number of things out there, and the IR beds and the saunas and your UV lights and the blue and the greens and the whatever colors and and go work out of the gym and do your meal prepping and yes, yes, yes, all of those things. But when somebody's like, super a clinical mess and they're like, I to feel better tomorrow, or I am going to go on antidepressants, then you may need something that's a little bit more of a direct approach in my clinical experience. Also, again, for my men, the multi tasking, let me put my whole pill container together, is not happening. They will literally just take whatever their wives give them. So I'm like, so she giving you that arsenic supplement? Like, I don't know, she just gives me stuff and I take it, which you know, with respect that's that's fine, but if we're making it super complicated with 14 different natural supplements, then it can be a little harder for them to comply. Give them one dose of an Astros, all you know, once a day for however long, recheck those levels, get them better, and then say, okay, let's transition back to a natural supplement, something that's herbal, that's going to maybe be better metabolized. Make sure you're working on the alcohol consumption. How's your sleep apnea? You know, did you ever get that sleep study right? Just to get my gentleman to do a sleep study is difficult. So, you know, I think it's we've got to take that, that patient right in front of us. That's where I think that we don't have the necessary protocol base that I know a lot of medical groups are trying to push in those larger, you know, Providence, Kaiser, Optum, pick one. They're all trying to make everything on a protocol so we can give it to tertiary care providers and have them just plug and chug. And it's just not that simple. I don't think it ever will be. I hope it never is

Speaker 3  1:58:03
okay. Dr Bill, I got my list. I'll cross out thank you. Dr Jackie, that was a great presentation. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:58:09
you. Thank you guys for having me. Uh, let's

Bill Clearfield  1:58:11
so Thank you, Doctor Jackie, next week we have rosemary. Mackenzie is returning, and she is our hormone monitor, uh, Mira, mira health, and so she's returning for a deeper dive into how she does hormone monitoring for for females. So thank you all. And okay, now our video is off, so one of the questions was, where's it at? Uh, where do you, where do you, where do you get your troches from?

Speaker 4  1:58:48
Yeah, I get it from my local compounding a couple of local compounding pharmacies. I prefer kings pharmacy, just because I've worked with them the longest. I know their quality of product is very reliable. Their customer service to my patients is phenomenal. They ship to my patients, which makes it super convenient. And it's a locally owned business, right? So I like to support small businesses as well. The other ones I use are Anaheim Hills, pharmacy, Harbor, compounding, to a degree. My nurse practitioner likes them more than I do med specialties, pharmacy, so just I work with several and again, it comes back to patient preference as well. If they're like, Hey, we like Villa Park pharmacy, okay, go there. I've just found that some of the other peripheral compounding pharmacies sometimes can't make it or are familiar with the dosing and so forth. So that I'll just go back to canes.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:39
Okay? And then there was a question. I this is probably for Dr Lawson. Those for cyclodextrin is, if he's still on, he's not on,

Speaker 5  1:59:50
yeah, cyclodextrin. There is already an Amazon some products there, curcumin, loaded cyclodextrin and Alpha Lipoic Acid, low cyclodextrin. But I'm working with a compounding pharmacy. Hopefully they will do a lot of psychodex drugs. I Mikey Manuel does internazional Psycho Dexter and progesterone. He improved the he said he improved the irritation. There will be no nasal irritation. I like internazion progesterone, the reason why you end up into the brain that helps to keep the sleep and put you on sleep. And then that's very important for detox and insomnia. So taking a to nasal progesterone would definitely help and sleep. And I think I learned that from you, Dr William Clearfield, when you say the progesterone metabolized into adult prognolon, and that is itself, GABA, we've used that so right? And, and it's mixed with psychoduction, which helps to clear all this xenoestrogens and micro plastics and all those aromatase activators, and it clears up the cholesterol in the blood. And also for arthrosclerosis and Burgess stone itself is vasodilation for it's good for high blood pressure. So it does everything. It increases in sensitivity. It does everything. It helps in metabolic syndrome. So that's where the psycho dextrin, it's, it's, it's a good thing to be added in supplements and sex hormone. And I wrote a book on it, just the clinical pharmaceutical application of sacred dextrin. It's in Amazon, but I would like people to be on it, because it does help we have this crisis of micro plastics. And I think Dr Jackie, she brought it on to her attention. I'm going to present something about it. I'll give Dr Joseph James to present the micro plastic toxicity. And you know, you know, this micro plastic can end up into five nanometers, which is so hard to get read from, and they stick into the blood vessels leading to and inside our cells in our body, and leading to oxidative stress, and all the problems is going to be the sent the new trend, and and the only way we get read from it is by psycho dextrin, because it makes it bigger, and then you may end up needing some sound on sweating or apheresis at the end of the day, if, if we end up having too much of it. But we need that up to now, there is no lab testing for micro plastic, and I think that needs to be investigated and looked at, because that's the area where I think this the medicine is moving to, to look at and detox our body from it.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:32
Okay. Yeah, so there was another question about, what protein removes plastics and how can we get it? I don't

Speaker 5  2:02:40
know, is that I could Dexter would help to get rid from micro plastics. And I said, in Amazon, there is some supplement there. If you click on cyclodextrin curcumin, in Amazon, you may find alpha lipoic capital cyclodextrin. And then the this compounding pharmacy, Mikey Manuel does six hormone, loaded psycho dextran. And then strive pharmacy is is doing all their drugs and supplement they're working and they bought all the machines. Hopefully they will have the psychodex and loaded GLP ones and many other drugs. But I want you to start from now working on clearing the body from microplastics and from and from all the 16 estrogens and and those cholesterol oxidized LDL, that deposit in the blood vessels.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:31
Okay, I made a mistake on the CME thing. It's HTTPS, not just p,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:38
so add that

Unknown Speaker  2:03:47
slash, what's the number 10859?

Bill Clearfield  2:03:52
Okay, I think that's correct. Dr, colas, does that look right to you? For the CME credit? I

Unknown Speaker  2:04:05
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:09
micro dose Stefan mentioned that, and Carol Peterson had mentioned it was Quicksilver Scientific makes nano emulsion system available for compounding pharmacy is usually sublingual. LH is not suppressed, far less rise in estradiol. So there, yeah,

Speaker 5  2:04:29
you, you told me that you have patient, they have too much of low estradiol, and they have low high density lipoprotein, and you need to give them so you can increase the High Density Lipoprotein, sodium is very important for men. Zeroing it, it's it's a disaster, too. Okay, okay, so I put the link of the of the CME, if you want your CME for today, tonight, here, and

Bill Clearfield  2:04:57
then I put it up a couple times, but I left that s out there in the HTTPS it's like, that's okay. Dr Jackie, one last time, because there's a couple extra tests that could you put your test panel back up there? Because there's a couple, Oh,

Speaker 4  2:05:13
for sure, yeah, let me I was just like, answering to some of the chats that were, yeah. Here we go. And I sent you the talk Dr Clearfield, yeah, so, by all, distribute that however people want to, like, put it up.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:29
So, so, you know, we do, you know, with CBC and a chem profile, I mean, yeah, you

Speaker 4  2:05:36
have a, I don't know why I didn't put CBC on here, but, yeah, that's obviously a and

Bill Clearfield  2:05:40
a lipid. We do a lipid panel and LH, FSH, we get, you got that on the thyroid? I do TSH, free t3 free T for I do the antibodies on everybody at least once, TPO and anti thyroid, globulin, reverse. T3 we do that one, we do a we also do a pregnant alone. We add to this. And that's pretty much the route.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:10
SHBG, you need to add that

Speaker 4  2:06:12
yes, and I, actually, I do shgb, shpg, I used to check pregnant alone on everybody. I've kind of gotten away from it a little bit. It's just a matter of like, overwhelming patients with, you know, tons and tons and tons of results every time. I typically start with the CDC and cholesterol panel, though I don't necessarily check them every three months. I'll sometimes check them every six to nine, depending how much we need to go right, right if they have a total cholesterol 220, and their HDL 70, then I'm not rechecking that in three months. But, you know, I think again, it's personal preference and comfort level within your practice and within patients, because I'll have patients like, did you check my cholesterol again? And I'm like, girl, you were amazing. Why would I check it again? I just want to know. Okay, fine, you know. So it's a matter of knowing what they

Bill Clearfield  2:07:01
want. Watch TV, get scared to death. We also do an IGF one for growth hormone. And I think that's about it. Oh, we've been doing spot urine spot urines for iodine also, okay? And, yeah,

Speaker 5  2:07:19
iodine is very, very important, especially you know, when you start measuring the ratio between estrone and estradiol,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:25
iodine levels, at least in higher

Speaker 5  2:07:29
as the estrone over estradiol has to be less than two. Then if it's more than you need, possibly iodine helps to balance the estrogen metabolism.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:41
Yeah, yeah. We use as a cashless so Ulta lab is sort of quest, sort of generic lab, and for cash lab, and we get everything done that I'm well, everything you have, and the other ones I mentioned for about $350 cash price. So it's a pretty good price.

Speaker 5  2:07:58
You do have iodine level low because you live away from the ocean.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:05
When I come, I visit with you in Florida, so we were right by the ocean. Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:08:10
the lake, the lake that you have there in Nevada is that one has salt. Is that salt or no?

Bill Clearfield  2:08:18
Yeah, yeah. It's a salt water lake. Really,

Speaker 5  2:08:21
salt water lake. That's iodine or no, it's time

Bill Clearfield  2:08:25
I go there. I'll test it for you. I'll find out. So well, Doc, Jackie, thank you so much for being with us. I hope you'll you'll join us. You know, again, sometime, maybe we can get you on for some of your we'll get you something on for your, some of your menopausal issues. And you know anybody, Doctor, Doctor Nario, we still need the tip of the week here. What? What did you learn? What

Unknown Speaker  2:08:55
did you learn?

Speaker 3  2:08:58
So you're the tip of the week would be am PK activity. So I I remember you having your weight loss protocol, and you're using the naturals, right? Like the resveratrol, the curcumin. So there is one now out there, I don't know if you've heard of this. OS 01, have you heard of this? So always, oh, one is actually a it's a pretty unique, potent activator of AMPK. Why is that unique? For the reason that there are 12 known pathways of AMPK found in human tissues, and this is the only one that can actually activate them all together. So when you activate AMPK, this is almost like exercise in a capsule, as they call it. And the hands of your metabolism, mitochondrial function, and so then sensitivity, glucose uptake, even fatty oxidation. So all of these things that we like now for for anti aging, and also using it at the same time with our GLP ones. So, but this is actually oral available, and this is weight based. When you actually a pharmacy out there, I can mention the pharmacy ad Labs is actually a pharmacy that does this. You will also get this in peptide science, I think. But of course, we don't want to promote that. So the dosing here is 100 milligrams. That's the standard that's out there. And you should be six weeks on and four weeks off of this. So this is something you cycle to really maximize the AMPK activation. So this is the only one that actually has proven to stimulate all 12 pathways all at the same time. So

Speaker 5  2:10:43
you cycling it. Because here's the thing, remember that guy, The Millionaire, who is using rapamycin all the time, every day, and he end up speeding the process of aging? So too much of activation of AMPK, it's not something good. You need to alternate it with stimulation of mTOR, right? That's right, you got my point,

Speaker 3  2:11:07
yep, so that's why, and PK is something that you always want to be like. It's a light switch on and off, not always on, so right?

Speaker 5  2:11:19
Especially during the day he needs to be on, but during the night, where the growth and all that stuff, like yesterday, the guy was lecturing, we need to have some insulin growth factor to be high in mTOR so we can regenerate. Otherwise, if the people are using excessive impk Every day, like the guy who was spending billion dollar trying to slow his age, I think he was taking rapamycin every day. He end up speeding the process of aging. You want, if

Bill Clearfield  2:11:49
you want to learn about rapamycin, Thursday afternoon, five, five o'clock at the American Academy of ozone therapy. I'm giving a talk on it. So in doubt. It's in Dallas, Texas, so make sure you're there. Dr Alessa, so we'll tell you. We'll give you the right doses. Dr Nario, can you? Can you put in the chat the name of that of the Oso, 1o,

Unknown Speaker  2:12:14
s, o1,

Bill Clearfield  2:12:18
and, and where you got it from.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:20
It's PD labs.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:26
PD labs, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:12:30
okay, all right. Do you have a have an approximate 100

Speaker 3  2:12:33
milligrams. Got it milligrams. Let me put the dosing. This is six weeks on and then four weeks off.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:44
Got it.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:48
Okay, so this, this is, this is how, this is how we get, we're getting our integrative medicine education, you know, on, on the cheap here. So we send the we send the young guys out. If I had to sit there all day long, I'd be asleep by by 930 10 o'clock in the morning. So yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  2:13:09
get to let bullets and they'll bring it back to you guys.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:12
Okay, alright. Anybody? Doctor

Speaker 7  2:13:14
Bill? I just want to, just want to thank Doctor Jackie for helping men become men. Good job. Dave.

Speaker 4  2:13:24
Oh, thank you. I think our men are wonderful, marvelous organisms. And I think we need to each embrace men, being men, women being women, and what our full potentials are when we're optimized in our health. And I think we, we went through a period of about 3040, years of, you know, we have a pill for that. We have a pill for that. We got a white away from lifestyle counseling because we didn't want to offend anybody, be mean, and it takes too long. And really it doesn't take a long period of time to say, you know, lift heavy. Do more strength training. Get moving, touch grass, be in the sun, get exposure to nature. We actually can reduce our cardiovascular like our vital signs, our blood pressure, our heart rate, respiratory rate, just by being close to live green things go outside and literally touch grass. And I think as we begin to understand more of our whole physiology, like our ancestors did, we will do better as a population. So I'm looking forward to being part of this revolution in medicine, back to natural things.

Speaker 5  2:14:30
When we've been designed, we're not being designed to be sitting in the office. We're being designed to be labor, lifting things and outside. So the lifestyle that we live, it's completely against our physiology.

Speaker 4  2:14:48
Yeah, we've demonized the sun, you know, we've demonized outdoor exposure. And if you actually look at the primary studies, which I actually finally did a while back, if you look at when mice got cancer was when they had standard American diet with sun exposure as opposed to sun exposure with a whole foods diet. So really it's that combination of that radiation exposure with crack Ultra processed foods as opposed to natural whole, you know, foods as they come out of the Earth, with that sun exposure without blocking UV exposure to the retina. So really cool stuff. Thanks for having me. This has been really fun. Thank

Bill Clearfield  2:15:28
you. And you. Hey, Dave, did we have a good time in Florida? Or

Speaker 7  2:15:34
what it was? It was great. Oh yeah, I got Dr tobe. Will get him on the we'll get him on the conference.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:43
They brought a what does he do? He's from Sweden, right? And he's from Sweden,

Speaker 7  2:15:48
and a lot of regenerative it's a professional athlete, as you could tell, what it looked like, and he's been using huge success with exosomes and our product over, we want to get 114 person clinical study and fix his knee. And he's been fixing knees and hips. He's particularly good with hips, which has been a challenge. So we'll get him on the call, and

Bill Clearfield  2:16:16
soon get him and his and his perfect family, too. I mean, did you ever see he's got his wife and two children, and they are, like, like, the perfect magazine models, right, right. Polite. The kids were polite. They were teenagers. They were polite too. They were, you know, right, right. So, it was unbelievable. It was great seeing you, Dave. It was great. Okay, everybody next week, same time, same station, rosemary, Mackenzie, we're going to dive deeper into monitoring hormones for, you know, for our female patients. And again, anybody has anything they'd like to present, especially if you're not used to presenting. We're mostly harmless. Here. We only bite the only bite the speakers every other week, not not weekly. The week after that, we have Doctor halasa talking about personalized oncology. And then after that, the week after that, we have Doctor Quinn. He wasn't on tonight, like muscle said for health. So that's what's coming up the next couple of weeks. We have a pretty good lineup coming up throughout the summer, and we're keeping it going the CME credit thing I early on, I did make a mistake, and we have it right correct there. If you have any issues with it, just send me a note like I said. I'm off to Dallas tomorrow for the ozone therapy conference, and they got me speaking about not up, but not about ozone. So we'll, I'll report back on that. Dr Nario, make sure you're studying hard. John, you have

Speaker 8  2:17:56
everything is beautiful out here we, we had one venue for May 30, it was canceled. The backup we have is even better than the original. So today we fixed all the food things. We're 100% ready to go and Caroline get in touch with you and Bill to see if you guys would do a zoom for us, and you'll be the only two zooms we have, I think, absolutely.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:23
Send me the information so I can send it out to the group. Okay,

Speaker 8  2:18:27
yeah, everything's looking good. I'll send you guys some pictures. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:31
alright, yeah, send me the information and the address, and you know the dates again, and I'll make sure everything gets out. Okay, so yeah, we send out about 4000 emails a week, three four times a week. So that's, that's, that's kind of our group there. Okay, thank you, everybody again. Anybody has anything they want to present, please let us know. Dr Patel, I know you're, you're lurking back there. We need you for your environmental ex, expertise. It's It's It's time again, and again, thanks to everybody. We'll see you next. Same time same station. I'll send you the contact list Dr salmons, you can contact the all of the, you know, one of the participants, and I'll send you a video when it's ready. Okay.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai