Unknown Speaker  00:36
Hey, Doc, can you hear me? If I Okay? Cool. Make it

Bill Clearfield  00:43
then back off, back on the horse, huh?

Unknown Speaker  00:47
You bet you the plumber just showed up.

Bill Clearfield  00:49
Oh, that's nice, isn't it? Doc, yeah, we needed one at the house too. So, oh yeah, yeah, that thing it on the outside broke again. I guess I didn't turn it off the right way. Oh shoot. You know, I can never figure out how to do that.

Speaker 1  01:13
You think they'd have some type of automatic setup by now? You would think

Bill Clearfield  01:19
you gotta turn those things in the ground. I never get the right ones, right?

Unknown Speaker  01:27
You already did it though, right?

Bill Clearfield  01:30
I thought I had done it in the fall, you know. And then, right, I didn't turn one off, and the pipe frozen. Broke. So, dude. Oh, I'm so I'm so handy.

Unknown Speaker  01:48
Amen, I'm getting better.

Bill Clearfield  01:54
We got doctor Kelly with us tonight, so we're going to, we're going to,

Speaker 2  02:01
Hello, how are you? Hi, there.

Bill Clearfield  02:08
I created that group. You're the Noma is this weekend, and it's at the pepper mill. It's not at South Lake like it always is,

Unknown Speaker  02:23
really, yeah, so we're

Bill Clearfield  02:28
supposed to do Thursday morning and Friday morning. And calls me yesterday and says the neurosurgeon was supposed to be there tomorrow after at noon, has a surgery. So could I switch with them. So I'm going to be doing it on zoom from here, instead of going to the pepper mill, which is 10 minutes away. It sucks. No figures. Yeah. And then Thursday night, nakarato has got his thing in in where do we go? Remember, we went there a few times. Was it Folsom? Awesome? Yeah, yeah, yep. I said I don't know,

Unknown Speaker  03:05
right? It's a good little drive.

Bill Clearfield  03:07
It's a nice drive. And, you know, usually does it in April, you know, the weather's Okay, yeah, we hear especially up

Unknown Speaker  03:13
there, and it's going to be a nighttime

Bill Clearfield  03:17
well, he starts at seven hours there, he talks for two hours, and I'm gonna go come home for two hours,

Unknown Speaker  03:23
right? Yeah, that'd be hard,

Bill Clearfield  03:25
especially, you know, you know, it snows up there like crazy,

Unknown Speaker  03:31
right? Yeah, it does.

Bill Clearfield  03:34
Do you ever read the story of the Donners? It's called Donner Pass, you know, for, oh, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:40
definitely, definitely, yeah.

Speaker 1  03:45
My stepfather was part of that. A booklet. They we, we were part of a Trails Association that would go twice a week, two times a year, to go track down the trails and to mark them. And they eventually put them into a book with trail markers. And then for tourism and stuff, people can go out and find the trail markers and read what it says on the inscription and look at where they camped and did all their you know, what do you call that? Wagon, traveling and stuff, pretty hardcore people back then. Okay, really hardcore people. Yeah, the books are somewhere in storage,

Bill Clearfield  04:35
like the other book you wrote, right?

Speaker 1  04:37
Oh, yeah, yeah, it's in there. How's it going? Dr Naria, hey, all good here. Oh yeah, little chilly out there, huh?

Speaker 3  04:49
Oh, you're in Vegas. That's right, yeah, yeah, we're that's why, yeah, you can't relate.

Unknown Speaker  04:55
It's 60 degrees here right now.

Speaker 3  04:58
Man, wish we were there. Doctor Bill. I got your script. I'm just going to fill it out. But what address should I put your office or your home? Address?

Bill Clearfield  05:09
Put the home, I guess.

Speaker 3  05:10
Can you send that to me? Yeah, you can put the you can put the you can put the off. I can't google your home. If I can, I'll be running at you so I only have your office address and also, yeah, just fill those things up, right? And Don will know what to do with it. Yeah, because I did this last

Bill Clearfield  05:42
time, I remember coming through they let I did it myself. Last time they they didn't have any problem with it. Now they got a new pharmacy. I don't know whatever

Unknown Speaker  05:51
you're looking Dustin,

Unknown Speaker  05:54
thank you. Yeah, we can hear you. Dr, Sulak, you're good. Okay, great, I'll be right.

Bill Clearfield  06:02
Okay, yeah, we got a few minutes. We we have a couple of minutes, and then we got Doctor narios Tip of the Week. Yeah, put pressure on you here to do the tip of the week every week,

Speaker 3  06:17
not really. It's just like another day

Bill Clearfield  06:22
in the office, another day at Sunshine, huh?

Unknown Speaker  06:25
Yeah, I wish we had more of that.

Bill Clearfield  06:28
I'll take you to Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, this,

Speaker 3  06:30
oh, here's a, here's a, here's a fun bit of Dr Siegel, got interested in the nanoparticle. Did she call you about this,

Bill Clearfield  06:41
no, or Dr Siebel or veterinarian, Dr Siegel,

Speaker 3  06:45
yeah, yeah, so I'm going to tell you about that. Thought she already kind of brought this to your attention. But no, yeah, I'll tell you off, off here. Off fine. We're not, we're not a radio station. Man.

Speaker 4  07:02
They. Dr Clearfield, yeah, are you in mourning over your Eagles?

Bill Clearfield  07:08
Yeah, you know, we kind of expected it. It's been that way. Well, the whole season, they've been, you know, pretenders. And we kind of, you know, after 2023 when they, you know, they just fell apart. They were 10 and one and then fell apart, you know, just waiting for the, well, we can't figure out is the head coach. What the hell does he do? He doesn't do anything. He's so much. He's got an eagle's hat on there.

Speaker 2  07:34
Oh, they fired the offensive coordinator today. They did. They did. He was horrible. Who was that? Patella patula? They did fire him. They fired him today.

Bill Clearfield  07:47
Yep, it was like, I checked around noon. You know it's when I do my when lunchtime here, which is three o'clock back home, they hadn't fired him yet.

Speaker 2  07:58
Yeah, yeah, he's gone. So now you gotta look, there's a lot of open spots over the league that

Unknown Speaker  08:07
coaches, yeah, Tomlin stepped down.

Speaker 2  08:10
Yes, that's surprising, but you know, this quarterback has a way of getting rid of coaches.

Bill Clearfield  08:18
Yeah, yeah. Stick around, do they?

Speaker 2  08:22
Rogers has a long history of that. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  08:31
Well, anyway,

Bill Clearfield  08:33
Moran's just doing it. Yeah, we were, we were expecting it. It's, it's not a it's not a surprise. So they weren't, you know, last year. They were just dominant, and

Speaker 4  08:43
yeah, and then people figured out how to stop sacorne, and that did it.

Speaker 2  08:48
You know, they just, there was no imagination. Their plays were like high school plays, no motion. I mean, it was just incredible. They played one half, two quarters they play, and that would be it,

Unknown Speaker  09:03
yeah, and they get figured out, and then somebody

Unknown Speaker  09:05
stops them, yep.

Speaker 3  09:11
So it's a sad day in the office, huh? Dr Bill,

Bill Clearfield  09:14
I managed to get over it.

Speaker 4  09:17
Your flag doesn't seem to be half masked. No, no,

Bill Clearfield  09:22
You never, you never give up. Doesn't matter. We'll we'll just regroup. No, from when I was a little kid, when, when I was eight and nine years old, my father, my father, had season tickets. It was $7 I think it was $4 a game, seven games, $28,

Speaker 4  09:40
the whole season. That was a stretch. Then, right? It was,

Bill Clearfield  09:45
Hey, Bill, they were two and 12 every year for 20. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 5  09:50
Hey, Bill, this is Vic. You could always root for, you could always root for the bears.

Speaker 4  09:55
Oh, God, no, what was that? Was that Vic? I didn't

Bill Clearfield  09:59
hear that the bears. You know. I grew up in Chicago. You know, Chicago, you gotta go for the bears. Well, my dance teachers from Chicago, so, you know, so and they beat us pretty soundly, too. It was the day after Thanksgiving. They sure did so well. Dr Renza, here with the Eagles hat, can tell you, know, when you're born there, it's in your blood. It doesn't matter where the hell you go.

Speaker 4  10:27
Yeah, that's why going to games on the West Coast always seems like you're going to an away game.

Speaker 2  10:33
You you paid how much bill for your tickets back then, back

Bill Clearfield  10:37
then, I think it would. It was either $7 a game or $4 a game. I don't remember.

Speaker 2  10:43
Hello, the I have three season tickets, 6800 hours per season. Well, that's well worth it.

Speaker 4  10:54
Yeah, we had you guys at that time. The schedule was only like 12 games too.

Bill Clearfield  11:01
It was 1414. Games, yeah, 14 games, seven home games, yeah. So yeah, we were two and 12 every year. You remember Joe? Must go. Remember Joe kuharik?

Speaker 2  11:17
How about throwing snowballs at Santa Claus? Oh, get over it already.

Bill Clearfield  11:25
That's what you're feeling. Enough already with the snowballs at Santa Claus, he probably deserved it. Oh, God. All right, I think it's probably time to get down to business here. Dr, dr sulax, chomping at the bit and Dr narios, where are you there? Oh, there you go. Alright. So, okay, Dr Nario, let's, let's get the show on the road here. What's our Tip of the Week here?

Speaker 3  11:52
All right. So welcome everyone today. We're talking about human in so a peptide that sounds like belongs in a Marvel movie, but it's actually produced by your mitochondria. And before anyone asks, it's not a supplement, not FDA approved, and know your CrossFit patients can't inject it yet, or are they, since it's available in the internet. But here's why physicians should care. Human is showing up recently in aging, cognition, metabolism and cardiovascular research, and patients are already asking about it, so we should know by now on how to guide these patient group that we have so human is 24 amino acid peptide encoded by the mitochondrial DNA, not the nucleus, not like the mod c, the brother of human in encoded meaning we create this on our own. It was discovered on 2001 during Alzheimer's research, initially in glial cells, especially under pathological stress. Translation, human and is part of the cells, ancient emergency survival system. If apoptosis of the demolition crew, human in is the engineering saying, Wait, this building is damaged, not condemned. So aging is not just accumulated damage, it's also a protective signaling. Human does three things really well, prevent stress induced mitochondrial apoptosis, not normal apoptosis, just to remember, that improves metabolic resilience, meaning insulin sensitivity, glucose handling, and reduces oxidative and inflammatory stress. So clinically relevant point here human protects cells that should not be dying, which are neurons, cardiomyocytes and even endothelium. So this isn't just mouse mythology, but here's human data. Conte et al, 2020, human levels declined with age in humans and correlate with Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease and type two diabetes. Yin et al, 2018, and mitochondrial snip linked to lower human levels, was associated with accelerated cognitive aging in large US cohorts. Yen et al, 2020, children of centenarians have higher circulating human in compared with age and match controls talk about longevity being passed on. Translation, this peptide tracks biological aging, not just birthdays. So reasonable concern here. But here's the new ones, though human and does not block immune mediated apoptosis, does not shut down P 53 and does not promote proliferation, especially during this cancer scare that people are already afraid about. In relation to peptides, it selectively blocks mitochondrial stress, induced apoptosis. If human and causes cancer, oncology would have noticed this by now. Instead, some data suggests protective effects on normal tissue during even stress. So take away for us, clinicians, human and is not a therapy yet. It's a biomarker, a mechanism and a signal. So it's a natural thing that we create in the human body. It reminds us that longevity isn't just about killing bad cells. It's about keeping the right cells alive long enough to function. So here's the good news, you don't need injections or exotic therapies to support human research suggests human and is increased by exercise, especially endurance and resistance training, caloric restriction and fasting, mitochondrial health strategies such as NAD phospholipids and the most important of all, good sleep and circadian rhythm, ensuring us that we will be having proper human In levels. So that's our tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  15:22
All right, I know our one of our favorite famous influencers without a medical degree, pushes that quite, quite, quite extensively.

Speaker 3  15:31
It's becoming famous. So that's why I kind of brought it up. I have a lot of patients thinking that this is also mod c, but it's not. So mod c is different, but it's also a mitochondrial peptide, alrighty.

Speaker 4  15:44
Quick comment, yep. Quick comment, I hope everybody is noticing on so many of these therapies, so many of these things, natural type of things, that they are increased through resistance training.

Speaker 3  16:00
That's right. So that's why you won't lose with exercise. If you want your peptides, it's too hard, that's too much trouble. I'm just gonna just let you got the money

Unknown Speaker  16:11
come on. Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  16:15
I've been going at a gym for 45 years, and this is all I got.

Speaker 4  16:20
Yeah, you work out. When you get there, do you work out?

Bill Clearfield  16:25
Oh, is that? Is that? I knew I was doing something

Unknown Speaker  16:28
part of the program,

Bill Clearfield  16:32
alright, Doctor Sulak, I think you're here, right? Yeah, there you go. I'm here. There you go. So, so Dustin Sulak is no stranger to us, right? You think you were, you were even at our first, the first live one conference that I ran. He's licensed in Maine. He's a general practitioner. He's better than that. He's an expert in an integrative medicine. He's long been fascinated by Body, Mind medicine, and I

Speaker 6  17:02
can, sorry to interrupt you, Bill, I can give a little bit of my relevant background. Go ahead. First of all, thank you for inviting me. I appreciate the chance to speak to this group. I think highly of this group. Don't make the webinar as often as I'd like, but I always enjoy it when I do. So. I am a traditional osteopath. That's how I think of myself. I went into private practice after one year of postgraduate training, thinking that my career was going to be osteopathic manipulation and other healing arts that I had picked up before medical school. And I was that was 2009 I was here in Maine, that was the year we passed a medical cannabis law that took a prior law that was on the books but not really functional, and it it expanded. It expanded the whole program significantly, and I was basically the only doctor in the state that was willing to sign off on these medical cannabis certifications for patients. And it rapidly took over my practice. I didn't really plan on it. I had long known that cannabis was a good medicine, but I didn't know how good and how much evidence there was, even at that time, supporting it. But my patients taught me a lot. My practices grew. I got exposure to 1000s of patients that were already using cannabis and then started pioneering other uses and better uses, how to use cannabis more effectively and more safely, exploring the therapeutic properties of other parts of the plant, we opened a testing lab here in 2013 we were one of the first to combine looking into these artisanal products and comparing that with what patients were taking and what results they were getting. So we established understanding of milligram dosing of the active constituents, which previously hadn't been done and had long plagued cannabis for having erratic and unreliable potency and standardization. And fast forward, I started a company that started off providing cannabis education. Now we also make products, and that's both in the medical cannabis space, in Maine and nationally in the hemp market. So that's part of my disclosures, that I have a financial affiliation with healer. Healer Incorporated. I've published in the peer reviewed literature, and I also published this book which, oh, I wonder if it's going to show it, it has to be like over my face. Handbook of cannabis for clinicians. This came out in 2021 there's a chapter on osteopathy. It's a good, concise reference. And throughout my career, I've noticed certain conditions that respond exceptionally well to cannabis. I mean, one of the one of the things about cannabis, like many of the you know, very holistic therapies we talk about, is it's often too good to be true sounding, because it can treat so many different things and in different fields of medicine, from gastrointestinal to neurologic to autoimmune and and on, and that that has to do with its ability to modulate the endocannabinoid system, we'll talk about that. But throughout my career, I've noticed dementia. It's gotten my attention very often as kind of an easy win with cannabis, especially for the behavioral symptoms and the agitation, and on the other side of that coin, where I felt very confident that I had a high likelihood of getting good results treating dementia related agitation, it had always been very difficult to get the medicine to these patients, because there's just a lot of red tape around it. And even if their families are motivated, if they're in facilities, it's very challenging. And and whenever I would get a few cases a year here and there, it'd be really something. And, and so in the last few years, I've been focused more on this, because I see it as a low hanging fruit to easy way to help millions of people. And there's actually pretty good evidence base. So that's, that's kind of the backstory of where this presentation is coming from, and I'll pull up my slides and jump in

Speaker 6  21:13
all right now to share them.

Speaker 6  21:24
Where is it that's interesting. Give me one moment. There we go. I think this is gonna work better. All

Speaker 6  21:42
right, that's just a little stretch break that we all needed. Now you should have you got slides up and video and everything's good. Let's jump in. Okay, so the overview of tonight's talk just a bit about cannabis and older adults, talk about the size and the cost of the dementia problem, and touch on the current treatments and why they are inadequate and what the real needs are. I'll give a summary of the pre clinical evidence on cannabinoid therapy for dementia and the physiologic effects. I'll show you some of the clinical trials that have been done with cannabinoids and dementia. Talk about practical strategies. Show you easy way to start with dosing and implementation. And then if you guys are curious, at the end, I can talk for a few minutes about what the heck is happening in the regulatory world of cannabis and hemp, which has been very strange lately, and I just want to check, am I presenting the version of this that's just one slide, or am I showing the presenter view with two slides? One, perfect. Okay. And then the learning objectives. After completing this presentation, you should be able to describe the challenges with current pharmacotherapy options for dementia and the related behavioral symptoms, summarize the preclinical data on the modulation of the endocannabinoid system and dementia models, review the current clinical evidence supporting the use of cannabinoids in patients with dementia and describe practical strategies for dosing and Access to implement cannabis based treatments for your patients, alright, well, let's start with a little bit about just cannabis and older adults. Here we see the prevalence of past year cannabis use from 2006 to 2015 and you see it pretty much climbing steadily since 2008 going from around a half a percent up to 2% and then here we see 2015 to 2018 climbing up from two and a half percent up to over 4% basically, the rate of cannabis use in older adults is growing pretty rapidly, and there's been some data on This I want to share with you looking at patients that are wanting to use cannabis. This first one is a 2020 publication, a survey from UCLA geriatrics clinics, a large survey. 15% of the patients there were cannabis users. 61% of them use them for the first time when they were older than 60 and 75% of them rated cannabis as extremely or somewhat helpful for their condition. So we now that's California. That's probably a little different than the rest of the country, but that's an indication that if anybody here is treating patients that are over 60 years, there's a high portion of them already that are using cannabis. Many of them are going to be using it for medical conditions. So my point is to talk to them about it, learn from them, and maybe help guide them. Here's another one, assessing health related outcomes of medical cannabis use among older persons, findings from Colorado and Illinois. This one was published, I think, just last year. Don't have it on the slide. Cannabis use associated with an increased health related quality of life and higher pain levels. So what the heck does that mean? That's an interesting finding among older adults. Why would they have better quality of life scores and higher pain level scores? And I'm bringing this up now to show you something a little bit about cannabis that's that's kind of different. This has been demonstrated before in studies where cannabis helps people feel better, even if it doesn't improve their symptoms. So when you look at patients with chronic pain that are using cannabis often, their pain levels decrease, usually, like, you know, visual analog scale or pain interference scales, they'll increase, but modestly. But even if you look at the patients in which they do not increase, there's typically still improvements in quality of life. And the qualitative studies suggest that people feel better, they feel more normal, they feel like themselves. And they use the same phrase again and again, cannabis gave me my life back. So there's, there's something about the way it makes us relate to ourselves and to the world around us that improves, even if the symptoms don't necessarily improve. I think that's, that's an important keynote. And then this last story study, I love the name of it to get it published so medical cannabis is not associated with a decrease in activities of daily living in older adults. And I want to unpack this last study just for a couple minutes. So this is a little historical, but up until about 10 years ago, it was impossible to get National Institute of Drug Abuse funding for any kind of cannabis research unless the research was designed to show the harms of cannabis, and usually the publication would have to be titled in that way. Also it's not harmful, like you weren't allowed to go after benefits if you wanted to get any funding. And that's kind of what this one reminds me of. That has shifted. NIDA has relaxed that a little bit. But this was a six month observational study in Israel of 119 patients, about half of them with chronic pain, and most of them were using tincture, and most of them were using CBD dominant or mixed THC and CBD treatment. About 25% of them stopped the treatment over those six months, but only among those 36% due to ineffectiveness, some for adverse effects and bureaucratic challenges, but a pretty high continuation rate over those six months. Now this is the same study. Let's see what happened to them. So no, it did not decrease their activities of daily living. It did some other interesting things, perception about the general effect of cannabis on the patient's condition. So you see significant improvement all the way to the right, moderate improvement, slight improvement, no change. Very few people thought that cannabis made their condition worse. This is, of course, on just the 81 so the people who had dropped out, that 25% had already dropped out looking at their appetite. Most people had no change in appetite. Some people increased, some people decreased. Why is that usually bringing the endocannabinoid system back into balance, will normalize appetite in either direction. So if it's too low, it can bring it up. If it's too high, it can bring it down. It's really the inhaled THC dominant that's like the obvious appetite stimulant when people are taking cannabis to treat symptoms. It's not a very common side effect that people complain about changes in a geriatric depression scale improved significantly from six and a half to five. Significant improvement in instrumental activities of daily living, from 4.1 to 4.7 and visual analog scale from pain 8.8 down to 5.5 so it's not just that it was not associated with a decrease in daily activity. It actually helped their ID ALS, helped their depression, decrease their pain. There were adverse events, dizziness, dry mouth, psychoactive sensation and fatigue were the most common. But then this is where it starts to get really interesting.

Speaker 6  29:22
53% stopped using at least one medication, while only 20% added a new medication. Which medications did they stop? They stopped opioids. Number of patients. So 28 people stopped using opioids. One reduce the dose. One, increase the dose, and four, added opioids. Now this is just what happens when you give cannabis to, you know, 120 older people with chronic pain, analgesic drugs stop. Benzodiazepines went down. You know, nine people stopped those neuropathic pain drugs, antidepressants, anti hypertensive down the list, and you see this again and again with cannabis, this broad drug substitution effect amongst various categories of drugs after adding this single agent. So the conclusion was that medical cannabis can improve functional status and mood. It's perceived to improve one's general condition and their pain, and it reduces the use of other medications, including opioids. So you know, in the big picture, this looks like a pretty good idea for older adults, no wonder, you know, growing percentage of them are using it. It's a really good medicine for older adults, especially when it's used correctly, it can have many benefits with a single treatment. Going to go through a similar study that was out of Israel. This is also out of Israel a little older, from 2018 900 patients. Similar survey study after six months of treatment, most common indication in this group was cancer associated pain, followed by non cancer pain, just going to show you the before and after. So this is survey data from six months in the blue bars, we have the pain scale. The dark blue is before, so you can see there were a lot of 10 out of 10s, a lot of nine and eight out of 10s. This is their level of pain. Now, just kind of squint at it and look at the light blue bars, and you can see this shift leftward in the pain levels and a lot more people, almost double the amount of people having zero pain after six months. This, you know, this is pretty powerful. Imagine doing this for large group of people. It feels good. It doesn't take their pain all the way away in most cases, but it quite helps quality of life. Again. Look at this rightward shift. There were a lot of people that said their quality of life was very bad before cannabis. 198 were very bad, and it went down to only 25 342, said bad, down to 111 so you know the good and the very good. There's a real quality of life effect here, and perception of the general effect. This is similar to that last study, significant, moderate and slight improvement, and 14.4% stopped using opioids, another 3.7% reduced their dose, seven and a half percent stopped using benzos. And so that's that's kind of the setup for this focus on dementia, because a lot of what I'm saying about dementia isn't just about dementia, it's about people at risk for dementia. You know, people that are losing sleep because of pain, patients that are taking opioids, benzodiazepines and neuroleptics. And when you look at the drug substitution of this, you know plant, what you see are many compounds on the beers list. Yeah, you know, the the narcotics, the opiates, the anxiolytics, the antidepressants. And so this is in order of how frequent drug substitution was amongst this 2017 study, 2016 the data was collected so opioids, people are substituting cannabis for opioids. More than anything but the anxiolytic some of the antidepressants are on the beers list, the NSAIDs for and I think most of you are familiar, but if you're not, the beers list is a list of potentially inappropriate drugs to use in people that are over 65 I think it might be 60 because their adverse effects are often, you know, will outweigh the benefits muscle relaxants, anti psychotics are down at the bottom, and this is a small group tonight, if I'm, you know, I would love to be interrupted. If anybody wants to ask a question, stop me in the middle. I like it when it's a conversation. So how can one herb replace so many different classes of medications? And the answer is the endocannabinoid system. This is what makes THC in particular, so interesting. It does so much. We have more CB one receptors in the brain than any other neurotransmitter receptor, maybe more than the rest of them combined, or close to it. They're really all over the place in the nervous system, there's very few places where they don't exist. One of them is the brainstem cardio respiratory centers, where you could get cardio respiratory suppression from opioids or benzos. You don't see that with cannabis or with THC, we have cannabinoid receptors throughout the periphery. This is CB two more in the connective tissues, in the immune cells, but this is a body wide homeostatic regulatory system. It's a system of communication amongst different cell types and different organs. It's a coordination of homeostasis, and it acts generally as a negative feedback mechanism to suppress excessive cellular activity of just about any type, depending on what tissue, what cell, what situation you're talking about. This is a good autocrine and paracrine method for the cells to communicate with each other. And say, You're doing too much of that. Please stop or slow it down. Bring it back into balance. And I see Dr Quinn with with the hand up, yep, please. I'm not watching that little screen so much, but go ahead.

Speaker 4  35:16
Oh yeah, sorry. Just back to the studies real quickly. In those studies, does it give the amount of CBD that people were using in all of the details on the product?

Speaker 6  35:28
Yeah, not so, not well, not very well in those studies. And it was a big range. But I think I do have some some data where we're looking specifically at the amount, amount when it comes to the dementia studies. But you know, I think the point with cannabis is there's a lot of inter individual variability. We don't have to make it into rocket science. But when you you know, if you look at averages, that can be misleading, what you usually see are big ranges. Some people are doing high doses of CBD and low of THC, and vice versa. But I think a methodology for, you know, just approaching this, it doesn't have to be that complex, but it ends up using the feedback from the patient's experience to guide the treatment. You know, in almost all those situations,

Speaker 4  36:16
is it mostly like full spectrum or broad spectrum or isolate, or do we even know that?

Speaker 6  36:21
Yeah, most of that, most of the data that I showed you from Israel is, well, there were two, yeah, good question. The earlier study was mostly THC dominant, and the second study was mostly CBD, like, what you would call full spectrum, or a one to one ratio of THC to CBD, you know, ish. So I don't think any of that data was broad spectrum. And so for those listening that aren't familiar with those terms, they're kind of strange terms. But full spectrum refers to typically, a hemp product that has other cannabinoids besides THC, but also contains a little THC, the naturally occurring amount in these varieties of cannabis that are grown for other components beyond the THC, they've, you know, through selective breeding, gotten rid of most of the THC, but there's always a little bit there. And then broad spectrum means they've taken that full spectrum extract and removed the THC. So it's like everything but the THC in there. And then, you know, more simplified medicines than that are made from isolates or distillates, which are just adding single compounds together. Now, the theoretic benefit of the broader the full spectrum is that there seems to be some synergistic effects amongst these different components. And also there seems to be some really trace components, many of them that haven't even been named yet, that have some Ultra potent activity. And so when you have small amounts of this broad or full spectrum, it's thought to be more therapeutic than the isolated ingredients, and it often is. And then there's other components besides the cannabinoids, like the flavonoids and the terpenes, and those are theoretically in the full and the broad spectrum medicines which might enhance their pharmacokinetics and enhance their therapeutic effects as well. So yeah, endocannabinoid system we've got, we've got anandamide on the right. This is kind of our most widespread endogenous compound that activates the CB one and CB two receptors, and we got THC on the left. And even though, molecularly, they look very different, you know, in terms of their receptor, pharmacologically, they're almost identical. They're partial agonists on CB one and CV two, and so we have this plant compound that works a lot like anandamide, and therefore can turn on this homeostatic regulatory system, especially when it's used in the right way and not overused, because it can also dysregulate the endocannabinoid system if it's overused. But this is why it can do so many different things in the body, because it's mimicking anonymide. It's a, it's a very old system. Sea squirts have a CB one receptor that's almost identical to the one in humans. So there's been a huge level of evolutionary conservation. It's it's very important. And so that sets the stage for, why am I targeting the system in dementia? There's some good reasons for it, and one of those good reasons is that the current, oh, go ahead. No, all right, I heard someone's unmuted that's maybe chatted, but I'll keep going. Feel free to interrupt if you got a question, though. So it's a massive problem with inadequate solutions. The current targets are the wrong targets. Six and a half million older Americans lived with Alzheimer's in 2022 so we're probably at about 7 million now, maybe even more. It's got a six to 19% prevalence among those 65 and older, depending on race and socioeconomic status, but that's just after diagnosis. The disease usually precedes the diagnosis by years or decades, and of course, getting better at finding it and treating it. Allah, the work of Dr Dale Bredesen, is hugely important, and these numbers don't include other types of dementia. In 2016 the estimated per patient cost of formal care was $28,000 and that's 196 billion per year in $2,016 which unfortunately the dollars are inflating, so it'd be a lot more than that. That's pretty big budget on Alzheimer's, you know, over 200 billion. What are we doing for it? Cholinesterase inhibitors like Donepezil and NMDA antagonists like Memantine typically provide cognitive benefit for about six months. They will often people notice stop or halt the progression and maybe slow it down, maybe actually improve things for a little bit, they're less effective in those with severe disease. Why? You know, why is it not likely to get great results with those drugs? Because this is not a single disease process. There's multiple contributing factors, metabolic, inflammatory, infectious, neurotoxic, so single molecule drug is not likely. The answer, especially a single target. Single molecule drug not likely. The answer and addressing the underlying pathology is likely some of the most important now, the other target that gained a lot of traction last few years was was a total miss. So Alzheimer's scientist resigns after university finds data integrity concerns and papers this was in February of 2025 University of Minnesota's Sylvian Lesney was at the heart of an image doctoring scandal on a study of key amyloid proteins. So he manipulated western blot images in a 2006 Nature paper that has over 2500 citations proving the cause and effect relationship of beta amyloid and memory loss in rats. It was fake. But of course, you know years later, and you know millions or billions of dollars of investment later, we have immunotherapies targeting amyloid beta in Alzheimer's disease. How good do they work? 13 phase three trials, 18,000 almost 19,000 patients with mild cognitive impairment or dementia due to Alzheimer's compared to placebo, these antibodies, these injectable drugs, they actually do work. They significantly improve cognitive performance on the clinical dementia rating scale, the mean difference, you know, a zero to 18 scale, the change of point five to two points is considered clinically significant, and the scale, it improved by a quarter of a point, so not really considered clinically significant. Was statistically significant, but not clinically on the Alzheimer's disease Assessment Scale, an improvement that was statistically significant of point zero 9% and in this scale, a change of three or four points is considered clinically relevant. If you just look at the trials with early stages, you do see better results. But when you look at the big picture of everyone, those are the results you see, not very impressive, but they do have also bad results when it comes to safety, amyloid related imaging abnormalities with edema. What a fancy name for brain edema caused by these drugs. So that's a risk ratio of 9.79 that's pretty high risk. And if you want to have that one with a hemorrhage, you're about 21% with a risk ratio of 1.21

Speaker 6  44:21
no trial demonstrated that the antibodies halted cognitive decline or improved cognition compared to baseline. So it's just kind of slowing things down and making non significant clinical improvements. I'm sure there's some people that really see a difference with these. But to unleash this upon a population for 25 to $35,000 per year is kind of crazy, especially now that we know the mechanistic basis for it was a falsification. But in the meanwhile, we're reducing amyloid plaques at 1000s of dollars a month. Now that would be nice if we had good treatments to reverse the disease or prevent it from progressing or improve the cognition. That would be good. But I think what's even more desperately needed for people who are really living this and experiencing this, taking care of their loved ones, their family members, and working in the field and dealing with these families would be a good treatment for the behavioral symptoms. So what are the current treatments available? When I say behavioral symptoms, I'm talking exit seeking and pacing and screaming and agitation and aggressive behavior and hyper sexual behavior and wandering around at night, and, you know, a lot of self injury, a lot a lot of a lot of behavioral symptoms in the latter stages, probably about 80% of people with dementia will at some point have these behavioral symptoms that makes them hard to care for. And the non pharmacological treatments are clearly the best figuring out what they do well, with music, aroma therapy, light therapy, massage, exercise, tailored activities, animal therapy, this. This is all the gold standard. It's time and money intensive, and you can't always do it all the way, but not, not at all. Suggesting the cannabis should replace these things, perhaps enhance them, but after that, you have pharmacotherapy with antipsychotic drugs, antidepressants, benzos and anticonvulsants. And as you you know can guess like two out of those four are effective and two out of those four are deadly. So the benzos and the antipsychotics will improve the behavior to some extent and make a person more manageable. The antidepressants and the anticonvulsants don't have very good data for any effectiveness in the behavioral symptoms, but the antipsychotics come at a big cost. That's what's used most commonly. So this was last year or no. 2024, publication from nearly 500,000 Canadian patients who lived in nursing homes. 26% of them received off label antipsychotics for behavioral symptoms, and at their follow up, 68% of them were actually worse. So is that just the natural progression of the disease. Did the antipsychotic slow down the worsening a little bit, or did it hasten it? But there was a 27% higher likelihood of having worse behaviors at follow up in those taking an anti psychotic than those not taking it. So you know, it's hard to, you know, compare the two groups. It's hard to know, but this is not an impressive benefit. And then when we, when we look at agitation, here's the clinical trial for Brexit brexpiers All so this is brand name, Rick salty. This is the only drug that's approved now in the US, recently approved for treating dementia related agitation. It is an anti psychotic drug. It's a new expensive one. Average monthly cost is $2,000 but with Medicare, only $21 so it's, you know, great for that company. But what? What does it do for people? If you look at this y axis on the screen here, this is the Cohen Mansfield agitation inventory, and this is normalized to zero at baseline. And you can see BEX prepares all in the orange versus placebo in the blue. And it's interesting that placebo works in this patient population agitated dementia. But it does seem to there's a lot of studies where I see that and and you're looking at, like, about a 2324 point reduction in Cohen Mansfield over 12 weeks. And that's that's pretty significant, like for Cohen mans, Cohen's Manfield, Mansfield, if you're at like 60 or 70, that's considered severe symptoms, and so bringing it down by 23 that that would be helpful if you're a memory care facility and you've got someone that's agitated, that can be helpful in caring for them. But of course, it comes with the black box warning increased mortality and elderly patients with dementia related psychosis and suicidal thoughts and behaviors, all of all of the anti psychotics come with this black box warning that it's likely to increase morbidity and mortality. It's just not very safe in this population. So let's turn the page to the compounds in cannabis. What? Just a summary overall. Now, cannabis isn't just one medicine. There's so many different things in it, but there's a huge body of preclinical evidence going back 2025, years, showing that these compounds in cell and animal models of dementia are neuroprotective, meaning they reduce cell death. They protect the injured cells. They increase acetylcholine, which is the mechanism of action of one of the two approved drugs for Alzheimer's that does a little bit for it. They reduce amyloid Genesis. So I'm not saying that amyloid is the main target here. But since you know, people are paying $25,000 a month for these infusions, it's interesting to note that you know, at least in rodents, cannabinoids do that also reduce oxidative stress, neuro inflammation and apoptosis evoked by the beta amyloid. So it's not just reducing the number, but the theoretic damage that's caused by them, and that's usually by injecting them into rodents brains, not allowing them to develop naturally. But they do that too. They regulate NMDA receptor activity, which is the mechanism of action of one of the other approved drugs I mentioned, stimulate neural Progenitor, progenitor proliferation and neurogenesis, so literally, growing new nerve cells, making new connections. And then there's all the behavioral and genetic changes as well. Here's a different, more recent review article on the topic that summarize, if we just hang out on the right side of this, you know, looking at animal studies improve memory and learning, reduced anxiety like behavior, decreased beta amyloid enhanced motor function, modulating immune and autophagy responses. We have C elegans studies showing reduced amyloid aggregation, decreased oxidative stress, increased lifespan neuroprotection, and then rat studies with neuroprotection, reduced amyloid burden, improved oxidative response, preserved body weight and memory. So pretty big body of animal evidence. I want to show you just one. I think I have just one animal study, just quick summary of it. This is a low dose for mice, three milligrams per kilogram per day. For 28 days, they took regular mice that were old. They have age related decline in their cognitive performance, basically how well they can solve mazes, and that goes down at 12 and 18 months. 18 are the really old ones, and when they gave this to those mice, they performed like two month old mice. And not only could they solve the problems like a two month old mouse, when they sacrificed them and looked in areas of their brain, they see that they had increased the density of the spines compared to the controls, they also change the transcription of the gene patterns, and they make the gene expression in the brain look like that of a two month old mice, a mouse. Now, this is, you know, complex. I love these maps. It reminds us of the complexity of our physiology and all the redundant pathways. But this, you know, this treatment with a single compound, THC. This is not full spectrum. Cannabis. Is just THC has these broad effects on gene transcription that affect multiple pathways involved in the patho physiology of Alzheimer's disease, just age related cognitive decline. These weren't Alzheimer's models, mice. These were just very old mice. So age related cognitive decline makes the brain look like a two month old. Now, how many of you don't wish your brain was like a two month old mouse? You know, a younger version of yourself? And then this is a this was just a crazy one, and this group has done a lot of work with extraordinarily low doses of THC. So that last one was three milligrams per kilogram. This one is point 002, milligrams per kilogram in older mice 24 and it was injected just once, not every day for 28 days, just once, and after that single injection, they had better performance compared to vehicle on

Speaker 6  54:12
on the cognitive tests, and it was similar to the the mice age two months who didn't receive Any cannabis. And that effect was measurable and statistically significant for seven weeks. So seven weeks after an injection of the tiniest dose of THC, you can basically draw up they are. They're measuring an improvement in their cognition and behavior, and they elucidated some of the pathways through which that was happening. At the end of the study, an MRI showed that they had structural retention of, you know, they didn't lose the volume and tissue density of their brain as much as the vehicle traded treated mice. So I mean, if we could get some of these effects in humans, and obviously it doesn't take a very high dose of THC, this might be good for our patients. So what is the clinical evidence for dementia? I'm just going to show you a little smattering of studies here. Really, there's been 26 either observational case reports, case series or clinical like controlled clinical trials. On this topic, a lot of them are small and open label, like this one. This is 11 patients with Alzheimer's out of Israel. They were getting THC two and a half milligrams twice daily, titrated up to a max of seven and a half milligrams twice daily. But seven out of the 11 stayed at the lowest dose, and the neuropsychiatric inventory score improved from 44 down to 12. That's also a measure of agitation, but other other neuropsychiatric symptoms and adverse effects were minimal. So we have a low dose of THC over just four weeks, you know, reducing the score by, you know, by almost 75% this is an observational study out of Geneva, Switzerland, 10 female patients given a cannabis tincture or oil with a kind of a balanced formula, twice as much CBD as There was THC on a small piece of chocolate cake three times daily, and then they titrated the dose up to an average of nine milligrams of THC and 18 of CBD. That's their total daily dose. So about three milligrams of THC and six of CBD three times daily, and their NPI scores went from 71 down to 38 so this was a more symptomatic cohort than that last one, Cohen Mansfield agitation inventory, scores went from 74 down to 47 and just remember that improvement in Rick salty was about 23 or 24 so that's, you know, very similar. It's actually greater than that. Of course, it's not placebo controlled, but I think the qualitative differences are worth me taking the minute to read this quote from the paper. The nurses, several of whom were quite reluctant to the study in the beginning, observed in almost all patients less overall rigidity, with more relaxed faces, neck, shoulders and limbs, making daily washing and transfers easier and more comfortable. They described the patients as calmer, more relaxed, less irritable and smiling more two women, with persistent screaming, almost stopped doing so, which was a major relief for other patients and the staff. One patient stopped frequent vomiting. Two patients could stop all morphine within three months, and one patient decreased by two thirds in two months, these three patients had no more constipation, which was noted as an important time gain for the staff beyond the benefit for the patients. One patient decreased benzodiazepine use by three fourths after three months, and one patient stopped two antipsychotic medications after one month, why two the feedback from the families was astonishingly positive overall. So I think that kind of drives it home. And then the same group published a second study, this time on 19 different patients, a longer observational study, similar medicine, similar regimen, actually this time, I think they started administering it in jelly instead of chocolate cake. And here's, here's what happened with the dose. This was a higher dose than the last one. Last one started, I think it was a tuna just go back a sec. It was nine milligrams total of THC daily, and 18 of CBD. And this one made it up to 13 milligrams of THC at the highest point. So there's the dosing. So there were 19 people, two of them stopped the treatment after five months because they didn't think it was effective enough. And here are the results, the agitation and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Sorry about the space on that. And so you can see neuropsychiatrics in purple. This was a very symptomatic cohort of 85 average score on the Cohen's Mansfield and down to 53 so greater than 30 point improvement and staff related behavioral challenges, activities, challenges and rigidity, you get a big improvement in challenges, a minor improvement in rigidity, based on this Parkinson's rigidity scale, this study also did something interesting. They did this micro drug cocktail to study potential pharmacokinetic interactions. And so it's like, it's like, tiny doses of five drugs that have known CYP activity, and they can give that to you and then measure the level of those bloods in your drug, those drugs in the blood. And then you know when you're on cannabis, they can repeat it and see if things changed much. They found that the cannabis slightly reduced CYP one, a two activity, which could have an effect of making a higher level of duloxetine neuroeleptics or tizanadine. There was also reduction in 2c 19 activity, which metabolizes some antidepressants and clopidogrel, no change in three, a four, which is the big one, that's the grapefruit one. And that was unexpected, because usually cannabis does affect that one. No significant interactions among these subjects, no change in blood pressure, minimal adverse effects. Many medications discontinued. So what this suggests is that if you're hanging out around 40 milligrams or less of total cannabinoids daily in this elderly, severely demented cohort with a lot of polypharmacy, you can probably just give the cannabis and it's going to be fine. You don't have to worry about drug interactions. That's very promising.

Speaker 4  1:01:02
Quick question. Quick question, sure, slight reduction in the SIP one, a, two and 2c, 19, does that translate to the ability to use less of the drugs that they were on?

Speaker 6  1:01:17
You know, it in theory, yes. But I would say that the drug replacement effect, the mechanism, is more likely a pharmacological like a pharma dynamic effect, than than a pharmacokinetic, because, well, these authors, anyways, they said that these slight reductions were not clinically relevant. They didn't expect them. They're theoretically plausible, but not likely in a clinical, clinical setting, but that that's a good question. I think it's just that people are feeling better, and that's why they stopped their drugs. So that's that's the 2022 paper, out of Switzerland. Here's another one from 2022 this was out of Israel, 40 people in the cannabis group, 20 people in the placebo group. So this was a nice, small, placebo, controlled clinical trial, randomized 16 weeks of treatment. This was a very T CBD dominant treatment. So one drop had 11, almost 12 milligrams of CBD and only half a milligram of THC, and they titrated every other day from one drop T ID, up to 21 drops T ID, and so 21 drops, or as high as they were comfortably able to get, put it, put them at an average dose at the end of the 16 weeks of seven and a half milligrams of THC, which is similar to what we saw in another study. But with that THC, a whopping big dose of CBD, you know, 175 milligrams. What's so fascinating is that this is like the highest total dose, maybe not, but one of the higher doses studies out there, and there was literally no difference in the rate of adverse effects between the active and the placebo group. There were different adverse effects among the two groups, but the overall rate and severity was the same. And they also found that there was a significant reduction in sleep disturbance in the cannabis group. But here's what the agitation scores did. So you have placebo on top in the light blue cannabis on the bottom, we have Cohen Mansfield here, starting up around 5758 and you can see the reduction, a pretty rapid reduction, right in two weeks you they're going from 57 you know, down to 51 ish, and then it just keeps going down over that. If you look at the cut off of greater or equal to four point reduction, which is considered clinically significant, 60% of the people in the cannabis cannabis group reach that and only 30 in the placebo group. If you raise the stakes a little bit to an eight point reduction, you got 50% in the cannabis group and 15% in the placebo group. So cannabis is doing something here greater than placebo, and it's helping with other things in the meanwhile. Here's another study. This was out of Italy, an interesting one from 2023 retrospect, maybe I'm going too fast. Are we good? Am I just giving you guys too much info? Here, we'll do a couple more clinical studies, and then, no,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:18
it's really good. It's good. Okay, right? Speed. Perfect,

Speaker 6  1:04:21
okay, okay, great. Thanks for the feedback. So this is out of Italy, 30 people. It's observational trial, no control group. More than you know, half were severe levels of agitation. They also had weight loss. The interesting thing about this cohort is none of them were yet on psych meds, and they were given a THC dominant galenical preparation. You always hear that term that Italian studies, because the basically the pharmacists there are the ones that prepare the cannabis medicines. They get the starting material from a company in Germany. Max potency was 20 milligrams per milliliter. So 30 drops, they said, was one milliliter. And this is their dosing regimen. Over 12 weeks. They started at 15 drops a day, so that's 10 milligrams total per day of THC, and they gradually went up to the 30 drops per day, so that's 20 milligrams total of THC, and then they went back down again to 15 drops. And so what? What happened at the end of the study? They the bars are a little bit backwards here, blue is before treatment, and orange is after treatment. So will you see a difference between blue and orange here for agitation, and that was clinically significant or statistically significant. This is neuropsychiatric inventory. You can see the before and after. For agitation improved for depression, it improved for apathy, it improved for irritability, for aberrant motor behaviors. It improved for appetite and eating disturbances, a modest improvement. And for caregiver upset, a big improvement. Here's Cohen Mansfield, significant improvement. Now they did it the right way. Physically aggression, aggressive actions improved, you know, cut down, not quite by half, but verbally aggressive behavior was cut down. And then these other ones, you can see a trend of improvement, but it was not statistically significant. That's the physically non aggressive agitation, the verbally non aggressive agitation. But unlike the other studies that I've shown you so far tonight, and surprisingly rare in the field of cannabis research for dementia, these guys collected Mini Mental Status evaluation, not just what happened to their agitation, but what happened to their cognition. That's important too, and here we see this interesting signal of improvement in orientation to time and place and registration so and non significant trends in other domains. So this is a group, remember, more than half were severely agitated, and they're treated for only, I believe it was 16 weeks, 12. Yeah, 12 weeks, and at the end of 12 weeks, you're starting to see some improvements in many mental status as well. Is it just because they're less agitated, they can perform better on the test? Maybe, is it because they're sleeping better at night? That's a good thing. That's probably a big one for them. Maybe they're in less pain, but something's happening there. There's a signal, and then this is, this is following up on that signal. So this is a recent publication from 2025 that looked at very low dose. So we're kind of going back to that mouse study of the very low dose, but this is in humans. So there was history of a single case, which I'll show you, that had a, it was a case report with less than one milligram of THC, significantly improving quality of life and function for over two years. So they picked up with that, and they did this, this other randomized clinical trial. And so I'll just show you a little bit about about this case, a 75 year old white man of Italian descent in Brazil. What's it what's important to share about him? Overall, healthy, no diagnosed comorbidity, except for the dementia, not taking any medications. Wasn't an alcoholic. He was diagnosed with Alzheimer's. He had memory loss, spatial and temporal disorientation. The whole thing, constant storytelling on repeat mode. Was unable to perform simple hygiene and cooking tasks. Couldn't live unassisted. They gave him. Memantine, he had bad effects from it. He fell he had a headache, he had constipation. He was rapidly progressing with decreased cognitive function. Mementine was discontinued. The patient's family got some cannabis extract. They imported. They gave it to the university for analysis. It was surprisingly weak here. Here's how much he was taking half a milligram of THC per day for the first 150 days, then a three quarter milligram dose, he got up to one milligram dose, and then he went back down again. So this is an order of magnitude lower than what we were talking about with all those other studies now. Now he was not agitated. He was just disabled, and look at his Mini Mental Status score. So following treatment, this is a baseline of 21 I know the graph is little misleading, but a baseline of 21 and he's up to 25 and up to 27 and so even at 42 months, he was still at 24 on many mental up from 21 so this is a condition that usually you lose a few points each year, versus gaining points and sustaining them over several years. And then Alzheimer's disease assessment stale, the cognitive domain of that also improved and remained improved over 42 months. This is what he says, I used to feel forgetful, not once after the treatment. Sometimes I did not know where I was. It has not happened to me anymore. I used to find myself lost on the streets. I could not leave home unassisted. Today, I took the bus by myself to perform my clinical evaluation. Shortly after the beginning of the treatment, I already felt more alert and excited during daily activities, and I have noticed I have been sleeping much better. So this is a single case, and that brings us back to this 26 week prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, phase two trial, 14 people in each group getting this tiny dose of THC, a third of a milligram once daily in an even tinier dose of CBD, a quarter of a milligram once daily in extra virgin olive oil. And they measured many mental status and then many of these other domains for 24 weeks. And I know the chart doesn't look super impressive. I'm, you know, a little curious. We definitely need more robust data than 14 people in each group. But what you see here is that the 24 week mark a significant improvement. I mean, for such small groups to get a statistically significant improvement is something the typical decline is one and a half to two points over six months, and this was a 1.7 point increase over six months. And so what's interesting is that clinically meaningful improvement at week 26 which is equal or greater to the than their baseline, like, what's, what's how many of them were clinically relevantly improved 64% in the cannabis group versus 33 in the placebo group. So that's, that's over 24 weeks, not even that long of a period of time. Number needed to treat to achieve an additional responder was estimated to be around three. So give this tiny, tiny dose of cannabis. I mean, this is, this is just a smidgen. Give it to people with dementia for for 24 weeks, for six months, and three of them is how many you have to treat in order to get an improvement in many mental status. Perhaps, you know, if this data can be replicated, there's a strong signal here, though, of course, not much for adverse effects with that tiny dose, no observed synergism or side effects with these other drugs. So it's probably too small of a group to figure that out. And of course, it was a small sample size, and there were few non white participants, but that's just a survey of some of the clinical studies that I've got for you on cannabis and dementia. They're small. Some of them aren't pretty, but I think you get the point that there's a mechanism that's been elucidated in the pre clinical literature. There's a pretty strong signal that's coming out of the clinical literature. There's, you know, really poor choices pharmacologically out there for treating these agitation related symptoms. It's hard to get it to people, because of medical cannabis being schedule one. It's hard to get it to them because the states all have different programs, and the facilities are scared to lose their federal funding, so they don't want to allow cannabis in their facilities. It's still federally illegal. So my company, healer, we decided to use a loophole in the Farm Bill definition of hemp from 2018

Speaker 6  1:13:58
and I'm not going to say the company's name, but we we developed a program to do this, and I'm happy for you know, people to take this information and run with it. Our product isn't the only one. We just make it pretty easy, but this is, I think you are oriented to basic dosing ranges based on those studies I showed you. So this is what we did. We developed a two stage protocol in blister packs. These are gummies. Now, why gummies? Because gummies are heavy, and the 2018 definition of hemp is that it has to be less than point 3% THC by weight, and all the THC has to be hemp derived. And so we, you know, check those off that these, these are actually point 1% THC by weight. And there's two stages. First stage is a lower dose, the second stage is a slightly higher dose. They're given three times daily, so we're in this range of like six to 15 milligrams of THC daily. That agrees with a lot of studies. Also, the nice thing about the gummies is they can be cut in half, so quarters, they can be dissolved in liquid and taken like a drink. It's very important to get something that's palatable for this patient population. And I think the gummies seem like the best thing, yet chopped up and hidden in food sometimes, but usually taken like a drink or just chewed like a like a treat, like a dessert. There are certain states that have regulations that prevent products like this from being sold based on their individual definitions of hemp. And I think it was actually South Dakota changes to their off that list now, but it's this is this is working. So we think we have a lot of clinical support that goes with it. There's a clinician guide that has an order template, so if somebody's in a facility, their their doctor can just check it off for stage one or stage two. There's also a conservative protocol that they can recommend if they want to start someone even slower. That conservative protocol is a half a gummy at night. This is a really good trick for THC. If you want to totally prevent side effects from THC, treat someone at a sub therapeutic dose at night for a week. First they there's typically faster tolerance building to the adverse effects of THC than there is to the therapeutic effects. And so you kind of prime the system and get them used to it at a low dose, and then start titrating up after. I mean, a week is a good amount of time, but even two or three days treating them at night at a low dose before titrating up really helps. And then we've got a response tracker that we ship with that. And so this, this company, is now, we've, we've sold this to almost 2000 unique individuals, or, I think it's a little over 2000 with a high rate of reordering. So if people are taking this more than one month, it means either they're they're trying stage two because stage one didn't work, it wasn't strong enough for them, or they like what they're getting, their state staying on it, and then we have a nursing hotline that they can call. Their families can call whether they're on the fence about getting started, or they're curious if they should go up or down on the dose, or if they have, typically questions about medication interactions. We have our lovely cannabis nurses answering those questions on phone or video chat, and then efforts to study this population. So this data is from, I think, April or May of 2025 we had over 500 repeat customers. At that time, we got 31 responses. Man, getting responses is hard. This was just some basic, you know, customer feedback. Why are you using it and when? How's it working? But we got 31 responses. Most common reason was agitation, followed by restlessness or irritability, and then sundowning, sleep, paranoia, hallucinations. How fast was it working? For a lot of people, it's within the first few days or first two weeks. And then for some people, it's at the one to two month mark. These are probably the people that needed to switch to the higher dose for the second month, because some people just need more. And like I mentioned, there's a lot of integrative individual variability, but I think you've got the idea of the range. Now. What's the range for THC total per day somewhere between a half a milligram and 15 milligrams, even though you're going to see some people needing 20 or 25 and for CBD, you know, I don't think that CBD is actually that important when it comes to treating agitation. If you want to treat it with a CBD dominant product, you either have to crank the dose up enough that you're getting a significant amount of THC, or crank the dose up even more until you get into the antipsychotic range of CBD. CBD does work. Has similar mechanism like to erapiporzole, some of those newer antipsychotics with the effects on the serotonin receptor and the partial agonism or antagonism at the dopamine dopamine receptors. And there's been head to head studies with CBD isolate against antipsychotics, and it works well for that it at high doses, usually has gi side effects. I don't think that's the best strategy here, either. And then, how have the symptoms changed? We got about half with some improvement and half with substantial improvement, and very few people had no change or behavioral worsening. And then when it comes to the calls, this was about a year of nursing calls, 178 calls. Most common was Alzheimer's, followed by vascular and then Lewy Body ranging from independent to complete dependent. And 11 and a half in a facility, 11 and a half percent in a facility. Here's the age range. A lot of about a quarter of them were repeat calls. So our nurses got a chance to talk with a lot of people about dementia and cannabis, and the biggest concerns were, nobody had they hadn't used it before. We were like, scared of drug interactions, scared of THC, causing confusion. You know, everyone thinks it's going to make hallucinations are worse. Of course, if they overdose, it will but at the right dose, it improves the hallucinations fear that it might jeopardize their housing or care relationships. We have to explain to them. This is an over the counter product. I know it's strange because it's got THC in it, but that's the current state of things. We ship it if your doctor writes for it, it's your legal right to have it. If facilities you know, at risk from denying this for any reason. We really haven't had pushback from facilities. We've had surprising amount of enthusiasm because they don't like the anti psychotics either. You know what? I guess that one qualitative kind of quote I read like points toward this, but what we hear from people is not just their behavior is improved. We hear that they're smiling. People are smiling, and they're gradually gaining function. We have one lady who's been treated for about a year and a half at one of my webinars a few months ago, her doctor reported that for the first time, she went outside. For the first time in year, she went outside, and now she goes outside every day to check the mail, and that didn't happen until being on treatment for a year and a half. So there's this, like gradual but steady improvement in function over time with cannabis and dementia. It's it can be healing, I believe, to the underlying pathophysiology. So the biggest goal was to reduce medications, most common medications people wanted to get off of Seroquel, Ativan, Depakote and a billify, it's gross, and of course, to manage the symptoms, to reduce caregiver fatigue and burnout, and to maintain the ability to stay at home and not have to go. These are real problems. You know, people want to want to stay, they want to keep their loved ones at home, but they get overwhelmed in their. and it's a very common, tough situation, and a lot of the caregivers are also older adults, even if they're the children of the person with dementia. It's many of these are, you know, pushing 60 or 70, and often it's a spouse that's also older and has significant medical problems and has this, you know, grief, about not being able to keep their husband or wife at home. Most common adverse effect is increased agitation, usually from too much. So a lot of paradoxical effects, sleep disturbance. In some cases, we switch the formula up and it helps. So CBG is typically helpful for sleep. We do see paradoxical reactions to it infrequently, and when we take out the CBG and flip it to CBD, so that's like a daytime gummy instead of a nighttime I didn't really talk about CBG yet. So CBG is one of the more newly available cannabinoids in hemp. It complements THC very well. It's mostly got a different mechanism of action. One of its mechanisms is as an agonist at the Alpha adrenoceptor in the brain. So this is the same target of clonidine or guanfacine. It's sympathetic. It suppresses the sympathetic outflow and and that's nice, you know, for anxiety or agitation, it can be helpful for sleep. Doesn't seem to have much of an anti hypertensive effect in humans, even though it does in animals.

Speaker 6  1:23:33
There was one report of unsteady gait. I didn't show this clinical study, but there was actually a study some years ago, I think back in like 2009 that gave one and a half milligrams of THC two people with dementia, and specifically measured their gait and found that there was no clinically significant difference. We don't see falls. None of those Alzheimer's study or dementia studies report falls. It just doesn't show up in my practice or in the literature. But this, this prompted us to develop the conservative protocol where we start at night and then titrate in during the day later. And that's, I think, pretty much what I got for you. I got this one. Yeah, here's a little video.

Speaker 7  1:24:17
For over a year, I think this is the hemp face products that we're using. It's been incredible. Can you show us some more on the piano? Okay, I would love to do that with you. Would be great. Let's write some music together. I'm telling you, this is amazing. I want to share with our followers that this is the first time you sat down at the piano in maybe two years, and I'm thrilled so I can play.

Speaker 6  1:25:01
So we do have this kind of gradual improvement in function over time. This is one of our customers, whose wife is a bit of a social media influencer, and she, you know, is using the gummies, and her husband, with Louis body dementia, is now playing the piano again for the first time in two years, and he continues to improve. So what else we're trying to gather data? How to get data? Oh my gosh, we built an app. Or we partner with this company, Chloe, or and people science, we've got an app. It's got standardized measures in it. It's got little flashy, you know, electronic incentives. We cannot get caregivers to take the time to use it. Unfortunately, it would be really nice just to get some basic observational data. We and I think maybe we can do it if we really crank up the incentive and give them some free months of treatment. We've been trying to figure out if that's where we want to invest our research dollars into pay, you know, caregiver Reported Outcomes via an app that pushes notifications and all that, or a clinical trial, which we have some opportunities to do, some partnerships have opened up for us in Georgia. I'm not sure why Georgia, but that's just how things landed. And so there's some memory care facilities that are really keen to study this with us, and we're thinking about we have a protocol for a placebo run in trial, where you give everyone a placebo for two weeks, and then the placebo responders are excluded from the rest of the study, and you just give the active treatment to everyone else. And and so we're probably going to do one of those two things, and then the end of the story is a big question mark, what the heck is going on? So some of you may heard. May have heard back in November, when the government was shut down, it was Rand Paul that was holding up the approval and the reopening of the government because he didn't like it that the appropriations bill included a new definition of hemp to update the 2018 Farm Bill, which created the loophole that allows for THC and gummies to be shipped to people with dementia, and it also allows 100 milligram THC beverages to be sold in gas stations. Like, there's a lot of bad things about that loophole. Also, we're trying to exploit it for the purpose of helping people, but Yeah, clearly, clearly, there needs to be something like age gating on these THC products, education, it's just, but every time they try to do something, they just make it worse through unintended consequences. And I think left, left alone the public sector, I mean, the private sector would probably handle this better than the government. So in that bill, they included a new definition of hemp, which says, THC, content of any hemp product cannot be more than point four milligrams per package. And so that would literally destroy, remove every product that is a so called Full Spectrum hemp. You go out to a hemp field like this one. This is our, our hemp growing here in Maine, you harvest this stuff. It's CBD dominant. There's a little THC in it. You extract it, you put in a bottle, you ship it. It's very hard to get high off of it. You have to take a huge amount, but it, but it is possible that that becomes illegal, and the only thing that's legal would be chemically isolated CBD and other cannabinoids with no THC, or these broad spectrum products that we talked about where the THC has been fully removed. So that's a that's a problem. Our hearts sank for a few days. Then I said, this is a big industry. We're going to keep working on this and and it's probably going to change? And then was it last month? Yeah, I think it was the end of last month, Trump signed some executive orders which, whatever. Maybe, maybe they're going to do something, or maybe they're just his way of telling his opinion to the public and to Congress. But the executive order said we're going to take cannabis Out Of Schedule one and put it into schedule three. That has some interesting implications around, you know, cannabis businesses getting banks to support them, and tax implications. Maybe it'll open up some research. It'll probably somehow help pharmaceutical companies. Schedule three is a weird place for a botanical substance to be that has no FDA approved products. But anyways, he also said that center for Medicare Services is going to do a pilot program where they start reimbursing people for full spectrum CBD, so you get this law that just passed that said full spectrum is going to be totally illegal, and now Trump says Medicare is going to start reimbursing up to $500 per patient per year for these products and and that leaves us in a big question mark land here, and who knows what's going to happen when you leave the government, when you leave it up to the government? What a mess. Thank you very much. In the meanwhile, we're going to keep working on this problem and keep helping people as much as we can. So that is the end of the presentation. Thanks for hanging in there for a long presentation. I'm happy to answer questions on this topic or on cannabis in general.

Speaker 2  1:30:29
Fabulous. As always, wonderful to see you.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:34
Dr, Nario, do you have anything online? Any questions?

Speaker 3  1:30:37
Yeah, so you, you definitely brought up some curiosities here. Dr, still back. So the thing that we have noticed you did mention about now, they're kind of even questioning what really is the true cause of Alzheimer's dementia. We're talking about amyloid beta plaques. Now we're talking about even galactive Three, and you show this through your the antibodies that really are lowering down the plaques, but not getting the clinical results. And in this situation, also, I think there was a question here that there's so many different parts of the marijuana plant. I mean, CBG, CBN, CV, THCV, the ones that you brought up in your studies would be CBD and THC. Do you think the other parts will also be, I guess, featured in the future as part of the reasons why there's such a big brain support or brain neuroprotection for the cannabis plant?

Speaker 6  1:31:37
Yeah, great question. So the other compounds that are very promising in the pre clinical literature are CBDa, which is very similar to CBD pharmacologically, it does many of the same things, but it's got a much higher bioavailability and also a much higher potency. The A stands for acid, so that's basically a carboxylic acid group attached to the CBD molecule, and that's the original form in which CBD appears in the plant. And then when it's heated, the CBDa turns into CBD. So CBD is actually a product, you know, that thermal byproduct. But what's what's weird about CBDa is it also has, typically poor blood brain barrier permeability. It's more water soluble. But even despite that, less bioavailability in the brain, it seems to be much more potent in the brain. So pre, clinically, they're looking at CBDa, and then they're also looking at CBGa, and there's been a handful of mechanisms of action that have been elucidated that, you know, appear to be neuroprotective and anti, anti tau and anti, you know, a few of these other NK, you know, NF, Kappa Beta pathways and all the good stuff that they look at when it comes to neurological health, and who knows how much that's going to translate. But when it comes to clinical results, you need it to taste good, and those acidic cannabinoids are especially the CBDa is really spicy, and so we decided to keep it out of our product. We also kept the terpenes out of our product, you know, even though some of them may enhance bioavailability, you know, they're kind of permeation enhancers, but they also taste bad. So I think it's really the nice thing about the THC, the CBD and the CBG, is that they all have a very neutral taste, easy to get into people.

Speaker 3  1:33:32
So is that something that you're modifying in your formulas? I mean, you add something, or would that interaction, the addition of the maybe the flavoring would affect also the effects of these specific parts?

Speaker 6  1:33:45
Yeah, you know, I what I'm thinking about is, well, first of all, the whole industry is on shaky ground right now, so adding products isn't really something I can do in my business at the moment. We're, you know, going to focus on staying alive a year from now and but what I would do, if I could do anything in the government wasn't making such a big mess of this, is develop another product that would be for very early symptoms, not for agitation, but for people with the mild cognitive symptoms. Because, as you saw that that placebo controlled study, I mean, it was small, but that was half a milligram of THC per day. Just about everyone can tolerate half of THC, half milligram of THC with no side effects. And in that product, I would put CBDa and CBGa, since there's some evidence on it, and I'd probably, you know, put it in a capsule or something like it, like, if I could, because, still, people aren't going to want to taste it in a gummy so that that's where I would go next. And I know that there's a lot of other things that you all would say to put in that capsule, and you'd be right, you know, like, we could make a super capsule of a lot of good things that you don't need high milligram count, that would be neuroprotective, and would probably, in kind of a shotgun way, without doing the Bredesen protocol, without knowing what's the underlying pathophysiology, still likely be helpful for most People with that, you know, early dementia or MCI? Yeah.

Speaker 3  1:35:12
So we've seen a lot of supplements being done that way, meaning like they're sticking like 100 ingredients in there, and again, who knows what's working right? So, but here's a curious question, and this is really interesting, because you mentioned about gummies, so you're giving this probably the worst case type of dementia out there, the ones who are just so uncontrolled. Would there be an issue when you ask them to take an oral gummy? And is there an oral form, a topical form, that these patients can work with so you can just rub it on them and they could run again and do their thing?

Speaker 6  1:35:51
It's a good question. I do think the transdermal route is a viable one. It's, you know, I haven't used it in dementia before. I do. There's like one study that came out last year where they were just rubbing THC in their skin using an oil infusion, the same kind of thing you would take orally. It was for neuropathic pain. They were not putting it on the area of the pain, which was the feet. They were rubbing it elsewhere, and they were getting results. So I think that's underestimated, you know, not much first pass metabolite, you know, no first pass metabolism. It's a it's a good idea to use the transdermal delivery. Put, put, you know, a little something in there to enhance the permeation. Is probably, probably a great idea, but needs to be studied. There's very little clinical evidence

Speaker 3  1:36:37
on it. Yeah, it just reminded me when that question was asked about oral progesterone versus topical progesterone. So the thing here, why we use oral progesterone is because we have the metabolites as it passes through the liver when you take it orally, but when you do topical, you just don't get that allopregent alone production. So I don't know if that's the same concept behind

Speaker 6  1:37:01
Yes, not that much like, well, I don't know. You tell me. I think that the L pregnenolone is different enough from progesterone, that some people are going to want it and some people are going to not want it, right? And maybe, or maybe you want both oral and and topical. I mean, what's in your in your comment, are you suggesting that topical is usually superior

Speaker 3  1:37:22
to oral? No, actually, oral. Is it oral? Because, yep, that's why I'm going to back to your gummies. I mean, would that be a more effective route eventually, if, even though they make a

Speaker 6  1:37:34
topical Yeah, not really, I think so. The metabolic products of THC, there's two of them. One is active. It's a little stronger than the parent compound and a little bit longer acting in the body. So those are, those are benefits, but it's not much different. Like pharmacologically, it's just about the same.

Speaker 3  1:37:55
So while more ideas for you to make, right? Thank you. Another one here is actually so from, from the looks of the studies that you you brought up, and even for the use of your products, you seem to focus on very low doses. Or, I don't know if you want to even use the word ultra low doses of THC, CB, CBD. Is that something of a strategy that you've been using? Or you always want to use low and slow. Or when you start somebody really in a severe state of dementia, would you want to just go for higher doses? So how do you approach these situations?

Speaker 6  1:38:35
Great question, and this applies outside of dementia. And I am known in the cannabis field for being very interested in favoring doses that are lower than a lot of other clinicians or researchers like, you know, critical of the studies that overdose people, because often it's not needed. This is what I've what I've learned clinically. So there's a huge amount of inter individual variability, and it's not really weight based or gender based or age based. And so you know how to sort through that. The motto is, start low, go slow, but don't be afraid to go all the way. Because while I'm going to treat most patients with two to five milligrams per dose of THC, maybe one to five milligrams, there's going to be some people that take 20 milligrams per dose and do great with it. That you know that that the thing that's so different here is that we're targeting the endocannabinoid system, and that's what's not happening in most, most of the other supplements that might go in our mega pill, you know, maybe one exception would be pea palmitoyl ethanolamide, which targets it a little bit, and that'd be a great one to throw in there. But, you know, the this is targeting a homeostatic system that's body wide, and so I like to treat it with respect and go slowly. And I usually find that nudging it is better than poking it really hard, you know? And if you if you titrate slowly, you can there's some animal evidence that you can start up regulating the production of the receptors, and that you can start up regulating the endogenous production of the ligand. So it's like you're kind of getting the system back online, instead of just overwhelming it. And I think that if you're building tolerance to THC, then you're also down regulating the system, right? That happens through CB, one receptor down regulation, and it's, it's a system you don't want to down regulate in any disease state, typically, maybe the one exception for that is substance use disorder, because down regulating it can diminish reward signaling, which is probably not the best strategy, but it's one strategy in that condition. So yeah, I'll stop there. Start low, probably lower than most people. Go slow, but don't be afraid to go all the way, because some people really thrive with very high doses.

Speaker 3  1:40:54
I think this, these mistakes usually are done by, of course, newer practitioners in this field. I mean, when I was new, not only am I talking about CBD, THC, but medications. I think when I see bad presentations, I always think of I need to start huge doses on this person. But really, the lesson here is, get that body, I guess, acclimatized to low doses and then and everybody's different. And as you've heard, and I've heard from you also, that doses for THC, CBD, varies for different patient basis, is that always going to be the same for for each and everyone. So this is where individualized therapy really comes into the picture, which we're really good at, and because we treat the patient holistically, and we treat them different from anybody else that we see. So I think just don't pull that trigger finger if the newbies are there. So just, just be cautious. And then here, I think this is when I mean, so I think this is in relation to the new laws that you're putting out there that so now is medical cannabis going to be a little bit more significant now, if restrictions for the what we call the commercial THC, CBD preparations will be now be affected by these new laws, because medical cannabis, you can customize, right, even give higher doses. So is this now where it's going to go back again?

Speaker 6  1:42:23
It's possible, it's hard to revitalize an industry that's almost died. I mean, the you know, medical cannabis, in any state that's passed adult use cannabis, you see this drastic reduction in the businesses that are doing the medical cannabis because they have these two different systems, and the companies have dollar signs in their eyes, and they shift over to adult use. And you know, in California, of all places, my colleagues there are complaining about having a hard time getting good medical cannabis products because the companies have shut down that, you know, the manufacturers, the distributors, they've shut down, and everything's adult use now. And it's all like walking into the liquor store and everything on every shelf is a different flavor of ever clear and, you know, maybe one tiny little section in the corner of a couple beers and wines. That's, that's what, that's what patients are having to deal with in California right now. So it, I don't know how to revitalize that industry, if it will, or if we're just going to go back to, you know, what people call the legacy market, which is, you know, not legal, but, I mean, it was around for a long time before that. You know, I don't think that my company's gonna go for that. And, you know, people don't want to go to jail usually, but patients are going to do it.

Speaker 3  1:43:39
Yeah. I mean, again, yeah, that was kind of like the lost art before cannabis was just retrieved through your regular practice. I mean, your specialized practitioner. Now you're right. It's just everywhere, left and right. It's all over the place, but yeah, that's, I mean, that's to be seen.

Speaker 6  1:43:57
Maybe that's a good answer a lot of questions about what's going to happen for cannabis in the next 12 months, and it could get really bad.

Speaker 3  1:44:06
I hope it's good. I hope it's good. So this one, I'll end it with this. There's a lot of questions, but this one is something that so when you mentioned about CBD, THC, the combos that you've been given, it improves cognition, right? And now, does it also support the idea that, if it's improving cognition, maybe even stimulating cognition. Should this be given or used during the daytime so the night, nighttime activities such as inducing sleep, relaxation would not be affected? Is that a case that you can like maybe shed light on

Speaker 6  1:44:45
in my clinical experience with cannabis improving cognition is quite mild or minimal, or, you know, maybe I've seen it a little bit. I get really tough cases of severe agitation, and like either these people are pretty far along. So I'm more fascinated by this cognitive improvement possibility. I'll call it. It's in the animal literature, and it's in this one case report, in this, you know, couple other small trials. So I think we need to learn a lot more about that. But I do think that there's a possibility there. There's a signal, but usually, regardless of when people's symptoms are, I'm treating them three times a day, sometimes twice. You know, we can reduce the frequency if needed. I do have some people that just take it at night and that's all they need. It's like they, you know, get their brain to freshen up during the night. They get their sleep, and they're good, but typically it's three times daily. Because I'm I'm not just targeting symptoms. I'm hopefully targeting this homeostatic healing system, and wanting to keep that going 24 hours a day,

Speaker 3  1:45:55
also, you're more into the maintenance of maybe the levels in the system, rather than just pulsing it or doing it one shot in a day. Yeah.

Speaker 6  1:46:05
I mean, I think physiology likes, you know, things to be pulsatile. I think there is some some benefit to that. A lot of my patients will skip days from time to time, and there's, you know, what I've seen. So if we're not talking about dementia, say we're just talking about sleep in general. My experience with THC and sleep is that if somebody's taking a dose that works well for them. And in the first month, they miss a night, they sleep poorly. But in month three, if they miss a night, no problem, they still sleep well. And you know, and then maybe they can even miss two or three nights. But then if they go longer than that, they start noticing they're without their THC, and they got to get back on it, because their sleep is poor. So I think that there is some capacity for the system to carry this forward if they're appropriately dosed, you know, without constantly supplementing. But it's a really good point. Melvin, I think that it's probably useful, especially if the dose is too strong for people to have a washout period, whether that's once a day or once a week, or something like that.

Speaker 3  1:47:12
Again, a lot of things we need to know about this. So it's a growing field, and I'm glad that you're on it to bring us the new information every time you're here.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:21
Thank you. I hope

Unknown Speaker  1:47:23
I got all my questions out and

Speaker 6  1:47:26
I did see one in our chat. Should I field that one? Yeah, yeah, go ahead. So this was Cheryl, and she said I would like to start my mother on THC. She's 101 she has mild hypertension on Amlodipine and mild glucosteria. She developed dementia one year ago. What would I recommend? She sleeps well. She eats well. So, you know, I guess, what that question lacks is, I'm assuming that the question is, what do you recommend for Neuro protection and for hopefully preventing disease progression or maybe improving cognition? Because if there was agitation in that patient, you probably would have said so and so, what I'm, you know, what I would recommend for that is, like, a very low dose of THC. I would start with half a milligram once daily. You know, maybe if she's some, if she's really not very symptomatic, that that's the best human data we have now, and it's supported by the best rodent data we have is would be stay really low. Like, look at half a milligram. You know, it's a great way to get that dose is a cup or two of cannabis tea. So if you take, I mean, everybody thinks about smoking it and processing it and doing all the stuff to it, if you just like any other herb, you take the raw cannabis flower and you pour hot water on it in an eight ounce cup, you're going to get no more than two milligrams of THC to be soluble in that water. And that's if you really decocked it like if you put a bunch in there and you simmer the heck out of it for 15 minutes. You know more likely if you just make a regular steeped cup of cannabis tea, you're going to be looking at about a half a milligram of THC in there, but you are going to get more of the other water soluble compounds, the THCA and and some of the others. So regular cup of cannabis tea once a day is probably a pretty good place to start. I

Unknown Speaker  1:49:21
think betranell has a question.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:24
Yeah, there's a somebody has a hand raised.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:29
Okay. Well, if you can unmute, go for

Speaker 8  1:49:33
one second, yes. So I want to say, I mean, I take, sometimes, when I take, I take 700 milligrams. I buy from a doctor. He sells it, and one dose, it's 700 milligrams, or per cc, or something like that. It's a liquid.

Speaker 6  1:49:55
Are we talking CBD? Like a CBD excellent at 700

Speaker 8  1:49:59
milligrams, yeah, okay. And I read one time long ago. I read that CBD. It's very important for the brain, and also because of the cannabinoid cannabinoid system, it also can save the brain in many neurodegenerative disorders, including prion disease

Speaker 6  1:50:26
it has so CBD does have a really broad neuro protective effect via multiple mechanisms. Probably none of those mechanisms actually involve the endocannabinoid system. Surprisingly, because it's a cannabinoid, but its targets are elsewhere, really. It, to a slight extent, prevents the breakdown and reuptake of anandamide, our endocannabinoid. So it's controversial whether or not that mechanism is actually part of what it's doing that's so neuroprotective, but it is extremely neuroprotective against ischemic trauma and chemical trauma and mechanical trauma, pretty much anything you can do to the brain. It protects it. Infectious prion disease, it protects it. So 700 milligrams of CBD is a dose where you should check LFTs, liver function tests from time to time, especially if a person's on other drugs. It's a it's a dose that is more likely to cause gi side effects like loose stool or loss of appetite. But it's also, like I mentioned, a dose that's comparable in its anti psychotic effects to the second generation anti psychotics. So it's, it's something I do recommend that sometimes, but I guess it depends what you're what you're looking for, and often a lot less CBD, with a little bit of THC in there can go a long way.

Speaker 8  1:51:56
Oh, I see, yeah, I'm not sure maybe they said it was cannabis or i But the second smartest in the class, he sells it, and in, it's in part of the Jyoti pence protocol, the CBD. And he has this high concentrator,

Speaker 7  1:52:17
the CBD, which protocol, sir

Speaker 8  1:52:21
J pens for cancer. Jyoti pence protocol, okay, you know that the guy that got cured from stage four lung cancer I'm looking at now. So he got cured of stage four lung cancer with febendazole and febunda zone and irvimity.

Speaker 6  1:52:45
Yeah. So and I have seen people, you know, again, we're going to do everything that we can for one condition. I guess if it's cancer, maybe there's some good, good reason to do that. But when people do use cannabis as a chemotherapy, like a natural chemotherapy treatment, yeah, most of the evidence is in extraordinarily high doses, like grams of each cannabinoid per day, sometimes. And what's interesting is you can do that with THC, like you can take 1000 milligrams. I've had somebody taking 1000 milligrams of THC every every day. Walk into my office completely non impaired. You will build full tolerance to the psychoactive effects if you go slowly enough, it's just remarkable. You know, I remember one guy who had a malignant melanoma who said, I feel 10 years younger, like not only did my cancer stop growing, but I feel 10 years younger, totally not stoned. He told me, I miss getting high. If I smoke a joint, I don't feel anything. So it's remarkable. And it halted his cancer. And then, without talking to me, this was probably about a decade ago, he cut his dose in half to see if he could, and eight days later, he had a seizure because he had a recurrence, and it was growing in his brain, and it didn't make it, you know, cranking it back up again, didn't, didn't do the trick. So there's just a lot of unknowns when it comes to treating cancer with with cannabis. Every once in a while, you see these incredible responses. A lot of times you don't, you know where we know we can get good results in cancer is treating the symptoms, improving the quality of life, making conventional or other non conventional treatments more tolerable, protecting the healthy tissues from chemotherapy and radiation, that's all very doable, but a topic for another night. I see Doug's hand up, go for it.

Speaker 9  1:54:45
Justin Dustin, this was a terrific presentation. Thank you very much. You've been at this for a long time. I had one specific question back when you were showing the slides on the distribution in the CNS. Do you think you could pull that slide back up? Yeah, sure. That'd be fantastic. And while you're doing that, I noticed in your your bio that you do biodynamic craniosacral, and I'm sure you've probably not doing a lot of that with all the stuff that you're doing now.

Speaker 6  1:55:21
But no, I'm doing it. I about half of my day is me sitting at the table meditating with my hands on people's feet. It's really good. It is.

Speaker 9  1:55:30
I love it now. That's the side. Thank you very much. That's all I needed. What do you notice in terms of people on, you know, the cannabinoids? Do you know anything with some of those subtle differences that we are trained to feel with the biodynamic

Speaker 6  1:55:52
Yes, great question. I mean, my I have a lot of selection bias because the people so basically, I often do treat people in their initial visit maybe a quarter or third of the time, so I don't always get a good palpation before they start cannabis. I honestly, I do it more if I'm like, what direction am I going to take, or what am I going to prioritize with this patient? I'll get them on the table so I can shut up and feel it and not think so much about it, make some decisions. And then the people that do become regular patients for osteopathy, these, you know, the ones that stay on cannabis, it's because they're cannabis responders. So I know that if I'm treating them in their own cannabis, it's a selection bias, but my palpatory experience is usually just a greater flexibility in the system, like less firm boundaries, not necessarily an increased amplitude of motion, but kind of like a greater like, like at the end of the range of motion, there's like a softness there. You know, both in thoracic respiratory and in cranial motion, I find that and people just feel more able to go deeper into treatments, like it's maybe similar to the feeling of someone who you know is more well rested, and you can, you can get a little more traction, but it's a great question. I would love to actually spend more time thinking about that when I'm in the clinic and making some notes on getting some better descriptors for it.

Speaker 9  1:57:31
That'd be a great discussion. Did you train with Jim?

Speaker 6  1:57:34
Jealous at all? I did. I had the great fortune of I did. I think the nine phases, eight of the nine with Jim. One of them, he was six, so I had a great stand in Stephen kissel. But I love Jim, jealous. He's there for me when I need him in the clinic all the time. There you go. Did you? Did you also train

Speaker 9  1:57:54
with him, just two phases, and he passed, and I was, yeah, tragically, but loved him, and I'm working with Olean Adams now.

Speaker 6  1:58:06
Okay, so olene and I were in the same medical school class, and we, we were great friends from the first day of school. I say hello,

Speaker 9  1:58:17
I will. I will. Okay, great talking to you. Thank you very much. Great presentation.

Speaker 1  1:58:24
Okay, one more question. Hey, Dustin, Dr. Daniel Amen, who's done the SPECT image testing on hundreds of 1000s of patients, He is quoted as saying that he's noticed more he's noticed worse results for the cannabis than alcohol, and he was really shocked by that. Do you know of any studies that compare people who smoke and hold their breath fixation as compared to those who just eat or take it medicinally with the pill and so forth, or the nasal?

Speaker 6  1:59:10
Yeah, well, I mean, I think before I answer that second question, just the bigger, the bigger question of, what do we really what do we really know about spec? You know, I'm not sure it's not my area of expertise, but I know it's just one metric. It reminds me of, you know, some of these radiological studies, where they're making these assumptions, like, it's a bad thing because this area of the brain has less volume, or it's a bad thing because this area of the brain has more volume, or, like, any difference, they call it bad. So could reduce blood flow actually be useful in certain situations, possibly. But the real confounder is that when you look at any cross sectional population of people that are using cannabis, they're usually using it because they're sick. So is it a correlation with the cannabis, or is it a correlation with being sick? I do think that there are ways to use cannabis that are going to be bad for your brain, but I don't think those ways are ever going to be as bad as too much alcohol for the brain. So maybe too much cannabis might be worse than just a little alcohol, but if you're looking at too much cannabis and too much alcohol, there's no comparison there at all. And so I think he's, you know, I only listened to him talk about it on a podcast once, and I, like, you know, right? It was hard to stick around for the whole thing because it seemed pretty uninformed. And I know he's made a lot of good contributions to the field, but we all have our blind spots so and when it comes to heavy smokers versus people taking oral only, if you look at outcomes like in the general population, there's not a lot of good data on that. It's mostly just on the smokers. But when you look at medical populations, you actually see similar results across the board. And what it really comes down to is that oral is going to be better for some people, typically people that need longer duration of action and inhaled is going to be better for more episodic symptoms or breakthrough symptoms, or it's going to be better for more like the spiritual and psychological aspects of of the medicine.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:25
Thank you. You're welcome.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:29
All right. Bye. Thank you Dustin and great talk. I don't see anything else in the chat. Dr Nerio, you have anything

Unknown Speaker  2:01:39
else? No, that's there. She got it.

Speaker 6  2:01:42
Okay. Thank you guys for hanging out with me tonight and having me. I really enjoy.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:48
Thank you all. Thank you everybody. Next week we got Dr Bill Andrews, who, if you were at the conference, you heard him, he's going to be talking about some of his longevity work that he's been doing. So we'll see him next week. And anybody have any any issues or anything going on? Uh, research. Boys, you got anything

Speaker 5  2:02:14
going on, you're going to talk to me, right? Bill, always, okay, I was, I'm sending a message, but we're not getting through. So we'll talk. And hey, we got a little research. Click going on. Dustin, okay? And we would absolutely, completely value you and all you've done. So I'll be in touch with you, and I'll be in touch with Bill, and we'll talk about this thing. Appreciate, appreciate what you've done. Man, it's like half your lifetime, right?

Speaker 6  2:02:43
Pretty much. I would love to get some of this dementia research done before the Feds pull our product off the market. I don't think they're going to do that, even though it's it's a looming vulture over my head.

Speaker 5  2:03:00
Well, I'll try to see that doesn't happen, because there's wonderful things going on, and you've been sharing it with us for a long time.

Speaker 6  2:03:08
Thank you. Thank you guys. All right, Good night everyone.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:13
Okay, thank you so much Dustin. And before everybody else goes, let me, I'm going to ask you something so you know, we're always arranging for to have speakers, and I've been talking to one of the prominent people at the androgen society, one of the, one of the big, big muckety mucks. And we pretty much had him all the way nailed down until he asked, well, how much, how much is the compensation? That's the first time I've been at, I've been at this for five years. This is the first time I've ever been, ever been asked that would would you all be adverse to? I don't even know what, what they would want to tell you the truth, but would you all be adverse to, you know, paying a little bit, if we had paid speakers, I don't think it would be much. I mean, we got, we get, we get 40 to 50 people a night. I mean, 10 bucks would be $500 or $400

Speaker 5  2:04:21
yeah, there are other ways of doing it, and that's why I need to talk to you. Bill, okay, thanks. Yeah, I have pretty strong feelings about that.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:31
That's the first time I that's the first time that's that's actually come up in five years here.

Speaker 4  2:04:35
Yeah, and my knee jerk reaction is, we shouldn't charge him too much to speak to this wonderful group. Well, besides that, I've had a bug up me for a long time, because I truly believe that we as a group should come up with something to pay you and aos, I am for all of this great work, there should be some sort of a membership thing or something. We get CEUs. You get everything for this, for absolutely just giving time on a Tuesday, and I don't know, I just have strong feelings that more than just a Tuesday. No, understood, I understand you send out texts and emails, and it's a lot of effort. You put these things online, it's a lot of effort. And I think if we pay anything, it should be to the group,

Bill Clearfield  2:05:28
okay, I mean, I just that, just that happened today for the first time, and it kind of got it through me. Actually, I wasn't expecting

Speaker 5  2:05:35
that so well, we are going to have to deal with money more realistically, because to do the technically sound talk shows we're going to do and the podcast, we need to up our ante a little bit. And we can do that, and there are different ways of doing it. We'll talk about it.

Speaker 4  2:05:51
Yeah, by the way, that's one of the things that the research group was talking about pretty heavily. Is is structuring some type of podcast with Dr Burgess, his expertise and experience in

Speaker 5  2:06:01
this Yeah, we can. We can do that. And I noticed the lighting that Dustin had on himself tonight, the type of camera he was using, you know, has has that system that work in podcast, but we all have to do that, and it's not that expensive, but we have to communicate.

Speaker 8  2:06:20
Okay, all right, there is a pod fest. It's a conference about podcasting in Orlando. This weekend.

Speaker 5  2:06:32
Well, we already have two things going on. We have Stephan Hartman, who is already doing a podcast, and he has decent equipment, looks good, and he's always great at what he talks about. And then we have one another, one of our naturopaths, Colleen, who works with Dr Quinn and I, and she has another MD, who has a podcast already. So we already have two active podcasts. We can do a third, we could do a fourth, or whatever you want to do. That's why we need to talk.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:03
What's the difference between a podcast and what we're doing here?

Speaker 5  2:07:08
You know, I'm old, I don't, I don't, I don't. We put your head in the right part of the screen, not in the lower bottom and not in the center. Ever two rules you are not allowed to have is going to take down that

Speaker 4  2:07:21
Eden's banner. No. A podcast is open to anybody and everybody through different streaming this is limited as a zoom attendant type, okay, it could be podcasted,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:32
right? Yeah, it

Speaker 5  2:07:33
could be, no, I the information we're providing is top notch. We clean up our act a little bit with the light and the sound and the other stuff, and we're first class already. It's just we don't charge for it. And I kind of like that idea, there are other ways we can make money. So keeping education free is a very, very

Bill Clearfield  2:07:55
cool enlighten us. All right, we'll do it. All right. One other thing, just one other thought out there. I was thinking, maybe, you know, because we sort of, you know, get our speakers, and they speak about what they speak, but maybe one the last Tuesday of the month, or the first Tuesday a month, maybe we focus on some sort of curriculum, you know, it could be something you guys are interested in, you know, you know, cannabis 101 and we have, you know, 12 weeks of the cannabis 101 or it could be, you know, hormone definitely hit that one hormones, hormone 101, and

Speaker 5  2:08:44
we need to do that. The reason I'm saying we need to up our game with the cameras and the sound each one of our podcasts that you're talking about could be used as an on line portion of a degree granting thing or a certificate granting thing that we do, we're providing the top notch education, but it would be nice if It could just be clean and easy for online education, and we can do that too. That's not a problem, and we've already discussed that with several of us. Okay, yeah, is that we agree with you? We should, we should do that.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:22
Okay, all right. We'll work on that. All right. All right, everybody. So as you know, on Tuesday usually takes me about an hour after we sign off before, before I'm done with the, you know, with the video and the and the whatever else I need need to get done. So just so you know, it's not just Tuesday from five to seven.

Speaker 5  2:09:44
So, yeah, that we need money to hire you

Speaker 4  2:09:48
understood, that's for sure, understood this, this is, this is a product, a project.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:53
All right, thank you. All anybody have, we have no more this weekend, believe it or not, in Reno at the pepper mill, I'm doing testosterone, a tail of two hormones, testosterone and estrogen have have entered mainstream medicine, and we talking about the new the new regulations and research that have come out in just a list since 2024 so that's, that's this week that I'm doing that, and I'm also going to give them the coimba protocol. So I'm going to give them mainstream medicine, and I'm going to, then I'm going to blow them

Unknown Speaker  2:10:28
away. You know? Those are gonna make Your Pants Fall Off.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:30
Yeah, you know, if you remember, I last, last fall, I did my laboratories, the introduction of laboratory. And when I got to the, you know, I was just going through what they what the labs were, when I got to the thyroid antibodies, they went ballistic. What are you entering this stuff for you're just shotgunning things. When I tell him I'm going to give him 35,000 units of vitamin D a day, I can't wait to see the expression

Unknown Speaker  2:10:59
the bouncer is going to grab you and going

Bill Clearfield  2:11:02
to put me in a straight jacket. So He's crazy. He's crazy. Okay, alright, everybody again, just one last thing. If you weren't at the conference and you didn't register, I did put it in here you can for $199 get this. Get the CME credits. And it's somewhere here. There it is. Here it is again. I'm not sure what's going on with this. With the weekly CME credits, Dr Halas kind of been incognito. I haven't, haven't really heard from him. So if it doesn't materialize shortly, we'll start looking elsewhere. Here's the link. It's on our regular website, Congress of medical excellence.com website, and you can register for $199 if you were there. There's a different link. All the videos are up, and there's a password. I won't mention it here. If you didn't get the password, you should have gotten an email. If you didn't get it, send me an email, and I'll send it to you, okay? And with that, I'm going to say good night and good hockey. Okay? Thank you all. Thank you, Dr Nario, for your tip of the week. As always, Good night, everybody. Alright? And Joe, get home. Will you?


Transcribed by https://otter.ai