Unknown Speaker  00:00
Meanwhile, the people who lied to The feds jury In the Public I

Unknown Speaker  02:21
Hmm.

Bill Clearfield  02:32
Hi, there. Michael unmute,

Speaker 1  02:40
can you hear me now? Now we're good. All right. Roger that. Thanks. Now you live in do you live in California? Bill, no, I'm in Reno.

Bill Clearfield  02:50
Okay, so how about you? You're in Florida. I am

Speaker 1  02:55
in Florida. Yeah, I just recently moved back to my house after about seven months, because I had so much damage from both hurricane Helene and hurricane Milton last September and October.

Bill Clearfield  03:11
Yeah, that's the reason not to go to Florida

Speaker 1  03:13
if it happens again, Bill, I'm out of dodge.

Bill Clearfield  03:17
Yeah, I, I lived in Wilkes, barre, Pa and, you know, we had floods all the time back the five years before I moved out here, I had to evacuate three times. It's kind of gets kind of old. And then I had a friend went to Cayman Islands, I think, what's the one? What's the one in, into the Caribbean? That's like, British, and it's the big, uh, banking one. Is that it Cayman

Speaker 1  03:50
Islands? You're talking No, no, let's see, yeah. I think it is the Cayman. Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  03:55
Her, she was there three years, three hurricanes in three years that it lost everything. That was the end of that. So we were, we were actually away this weekend. We were in Sonoma. That was really nice, that that would be, it wasn't so expensive that think that's where I would go.

Speaker 1  04:19
Oh, it is nice. I i I spent a good amount of my career west of the Mississippi. It's been 12 years in California. I spent several years in Arizona, Utah and Colorado. So I'm definitely partial to the West Coast, or at least the western part of the country, seems like you don't have nearly as many natural disasters in certain parts of the country, although things are changing. Things,

Bill Clearfield  04:50
yeah, when we were we were in, well, we get, we get a little earthquakes here, not not too much damage, but little ones. But so we were in San Francisco over the weekend. Also, we weren't afraid. I started there, and you can feel the ground shake first. Say, I grew up in Northeast Pennsylvania or Philadelphia, and I was in New York a lot. I said, Why does it feel like there's a subway underneath us? Oh, those are earthquakes. I always in Manhattan, me, you know, with the subway running under the under you. So

Speaker 1  05:27
I grew up in in Boston, so there's definitely a lot of similarities,

Bill Clearfield  05:33
yeah. So I, yeah, my daughter went to Boston University, so okay, and a master's degree. So I'm in Boston quite a bit.

Speaker 1  05:44
Yeah, I, I'm your typical Irishman from Boston, so I still have, well, probably hundreds of relatives that still live in the Boston area or some of the surrounding towns.

Bill Clearfield  05:57
Yeah, I was there to hear the Red Sox won the World Series. And was it 2004 or something? Yeah, that was

Unknown Speaker  06:03
exciting

Bill Clearfield  06:05
70 years and nobody knew how to behave, because they know how to lose. So I grew up in Philadelphia, it was the same thing. We know how to lose. We don't know how to win. So we just let folks filter in, and they'll, you know, they'll come all the way up to 530 even quarter to six, and we usually get anywhere from 40 to 70, okay, typically, depends, depends on the, you know, depends on the week depends on the sometimes the speaker depends on, oh, we're in the middle of the summer here. So it's this week we had 70. So

Speaker 1  06:52
how often do you have them every week? Where every week,

Bill Clearfield  06:55
I've been doing it since October of 2020, wow. So and so if you see a picture of a young lady here, this is our integrative veterinarian.

Speaker 2  07:08
Hello, Dr Bill, hey. Dr Melvin. How's everybody doing? Doing well, Marlene, Hi, Marlene. Awesome, awesome. So cooking away. So I'll stay muted, but looking forward to I was there last week.

Bill Clearfield  07:27
Yeah, I know. So, so Marlene gets to do all the stuff we would love to do, but then, without, without having to answer to to idiotic regulators,

Speaker 2  07:36
you want to get something really amazing. Well, I

Bill Clearfield  07:40
mean, you know, you're doing hyperbaric oxygen, and I tried to get that in here. You know, how many, how many, how many certificates I had to get,

Speaker 2  07:51
gave up after a while, I'm getting ready to do the first ever exosome, infused with ICG for cancer patient, and then doing photodynamic therapy and sono therapy on that patient. I'll let you know how it goes.

Bill Clearfield  08:09
Let us know how it goes. Okay, well, let's see. When are you doing this?

Speaker 2  08:14
She started this week, so I will probably have about 30 days and be able to give you some really cool reports.

Bill Clearfield  08:21
All right. Well, let's see. I'm booked up until September 9.

Speaker 2  08:27
Let me put you, give me time, and then I'll present this case specifically.

Bill Clearfield  08:31
Well, September 9, so that's, that's, uh, almost two months.

Speaker 2  08:35
Okay, yeah, we should have some depth by then. Okay, this is how

Bill Clearfield  08:39
I do it, Michael, is that like how I grabbed you and in line?

Speaker 1  08:43
Well, you know, very few actually follow up, Bill, so I have to give you kudos for that. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  08:50
no, no, we stay on it. So we have leg breakers in our group, so we'll find you, and we have people in Well, Dr Siegel is, where are you in Florida?

Speaker 1  09:03
Me, I'm in the Sarasota, Bradenton area, about 40 minutes south of Tampa.

Bill Clearfield  09:07
Okay, well, I think Dr Siegel is not that far from you, actually. So, so I actually have a friend in in Sarasota. What's it called Turtle Bay. Is there an is

Speaker 2  09:26
a bill Michael, are you in Florida?

Speaker 1  09:31
I am. How about yourself? Marlene, yeah, I'm Tampa, just north of Tampa. Okay, I'm I'm down on the other side of the Skyway Bridge.

Unknown Speaker  09:40
You are not very far.

Speaker 1  09:42
No about 4045, minutes. Awesome.

Unknown Speaker  09:45
We'll come visit, see how this works. Hey,

Bill Clearfield  09:51
see how this works. So, okay, so we're close to five o'clock, so we always like to start with Dr Nario, who will give us the integrative medicine Tip of the Week. So if you're those of you aren't familiar, Doctor Nario was taking the Andrew Wiles integrative medicine subset specialty course at the University of Arizona. So those of us are better, either too lazy, not interested, or don't want to pay for it, are learning through him

Unknown Speaker  10:31
the information the

Bill Clearfield  10:33
typical week, so we're just stealing the information.

Speaker 3  10:38
What do you have for us this week? All right, so this week, we're like taking minerals. So we're studying the minerals. And the one that popped, I'm sure everybody knows about this is zinc, copper ratio. So it has emerged as a critical biomarker for health, gaining Particular attention during COVID 19, when zinc supplementation became popular for its antiviral properties. This ratio. So maybe, maybe a reminder for everyone, is measured as Copper to zinc in blood plasma, so meaning you can do this in regular lab tests. You don't need any specialty labs, like all these fancy, expensive ones, just your regular blood test. And it's more important than absolute levels of either the mineral, because these nutrients are antagonistic, meaning too much of one suppresses the other function. So this is almost similar to your estrogen progesterone ratio. So the ratio is more important than the actual number, and the optimal copper to zinc ratio ranges from 0.7 to one in plasma. When the ratio is elevated above one, it could indicate many things like high copper or low zinc, and even serve as a biomarker for inflammation, oxidative stress and even chronic disease risk. And research shows that high copper to zinc ratios are associated with, again, mortality in elderly populations newer psychiatric disorders like anxiety and depression and cardiovascular disease. Conversely, when the ratio is too low, below 0.7 it suggests obviously copper deficiency, which can lead to anemia, immune dysfunction, connective tissue problems and hormonal imbalances. So it's a non specific test. It's almost like your ESR, CRP, and if you want to use something as a parameter, as a guide, you can use this ratio, and again, during COVID 19 pandemic, zinc gained popularity because studies demonstrated it could suppress viral replication, enhance immune responses and reduce symptom duration in hospitalization rates. However, high dose zinc supplements above Alright, so this is high dose 40 milligrams, and also chronic. Low dose zinc can interfere with copper absorption, potentially creating an imbalance that defeats a therapeutic purpose. This antagonistic effect is due to so this is now the the explanation, the medical explanation. It induces it's called metallothionine in the intestines by zinc. So when you take high dose zinc, which binds copper and prevents its absorption. So you elicit this specific protein when you do high doses. So the solution is balanced supplementation. So the ratio here is taking eight to 15 milligrams of zinc per one milligram of copper daily. So represents an evidence based approach to maintain proper ratios that stays within safety limits. We're we're preventing deficiency. So this 15 to one ratio in supplementation holds and maintains optimal blood levels at the same time. While these minerals can be taken together, separate doses by several hours, may be optimized absorption due to their competitive pathway. So do not take them together. Take them far away from each other of hours as much as you can. So the key takeaways here is that the balance is everything zinc, copper ratio service a window into your inflammatory status and overall health, whether you're dealing with chronic illness, supporting immune function or optimizing wellness, monitoring these ratios through regular testing ensues, you're achieving therapeutic benefits without creating secondary deficiencies. Remember, it's not about maximizing one mineral, but about maintaining the delicate balance that supports optimal cellular function in long term health. So doctor bill, that's basically what you like to do. You have your own ratios there and right? And I'm sure you're familiar with zinc copper ratio already. So yeah,

Bill Clearfield  14:19
don't they usually come together in a zinc and copper and one's one supplement. You're saying,

Speaker 3  14:25
no, they there are, there are supplements out there that stands alone by themselves. So it would be nice if you Well, the thing here now I, as I study this, yeah, they don't want you to take them together. I mean, sure, low doses can be but as you go higher, and as you take this chronically, they will have a competitive inhibition of in terms of absorption, so farther away from each other the better, which reminds me how to take my copper.

Bill Clearfield  14:52
Okay, okay,

Speaker 3  14:55
that's our tip of the day, the Andrew Tip of the Day. Okay, great.

Bill Clearfield  15:01
And those of you read the read the email this week, I I included the, I think I included the video my seven minute. I had good seven minutes of fame. I ran over by two at the androgen society. And I got to meet all the I get to meet all the big players. So if you ever do any papers and or the lectures on on anything that has to do with testosterone or androgens, you'll find the names Abraham Morgan, teller, Rebecca Glazer, amongst them. And I got this, I got to sit in schmooze with the with the big shots. So

Unknown Speaker  15:39
does it mean they like you because they gave you two

Bill Clearfield  15:41
minutes. My talk went over very well. They call me the guy with the guy with the pink glasses, and they so my topic was clinical applications of testosterone for women, and I was supposed to be an abstract. It was five supposed to be five minutes, three minutes of a talk and two minutes of questions and answers. So I couldn't even tell any jokes or stories or anything. But what I gave them was it was, there was it was supposed to be after three hours of lectures on testosterone for women, and I was supposed to go to next day, but they put me on earlier. So I had to say, this is what you will learn. And I think I've showed everybody here before my my two slides that that I'm most proud of, one from the gynecologist who says, who gave us three years worth of things to do before even considering testosterone for women. And of course, the medical report, but my ex nurse, who, who, you know, the endocrinologist, said there was, quote, unquote, in capital letters, no reason, and no peer reviewed studies for the use of testosterone in women for any reason. So they will like that. They thought that was great, and I gave them 248 peer reviewed studies that have been been written and published on PubMed since 2010 so

Speaker 3  17:16
that was people laughing. So you got them laughing at your little bit. That

Bill Clearfield  17:22
was my contribution there. So, so, so we made it to the big time, and they actually want me for a webinar and, and I think maybe next week, next year, I'm going to get 10 minutes. So, okay, you're moving. So that was, that was, that was my, that was my, my introduction to, by the way, they're, they're, you know, real medical doctors. There was no mention of herbal remedies at all. Nothing. You know, no, no, no. You know, we've talked about non hormonal, it'll ways to raise testosterone lower. You know, all sorts of herbs. And you know, you know vitamins and herbs for all hormones, none of that. It's all strictly, you know, FDA approved or bust. Otherwise it doesn't count. No

Unknown Speaker  18:11
zinc, copper ratios,

Bill Clearfield  18:12
no zinc or ratios. One talk on one guy did talk about in Clomiphene, which is not FDA approved, and he had to have it made by a compounding pharmacist. You could hear like a gasping in the in the audience that, God forbid, they should use something that was, you know, not, not, not big pharma. So that was the crowd. So, so it was interesting. I haven't been back to real, real, quote, unquote, real doctors in a long time. So, so So Michael, I consider myself a recovering doctor. So and so everybody. Thank you for coming. It's a pleasure to welcome Michael Hartford. He's a special projects healthcare consultant for Avalon Action Alliance, former chief of the Marcus Institute for Brain Health in Aurora, Colorado. He's a retired US Navy person. He served as a senior executive for zenders enterprises, a quality of life company focusing on military, Family Readiness and resilience. His last active duty assignment was at the Deputy Director Navy Reserve medicine, defense health headquarters. He served as a Navy senior liaison officer at with at the with the Veterans Affairs and as a care manager with the Navy wound warrior Safe Harbor. He was prior to being commissioned as a Navy Ensign. He served as a non commissioned officer in the Air Force, Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard and Army National Guard. He's held a C suite executive positions with the Department of Defense, the VA, the Florida Department of Health, and he has held county positions in Hillsborough county administrative services. 22 years career VA career including assignments as the CEO VA health administrator in Denver, Colorado, Loma Linda, California, and acting CEO in Long Beach, California. He's board certified and a life fellow in the American College of Healthcare sciences, manasota veterans Inc, and team leads Florida's governor's Challenge task force, a past president of a C, H, E, Western Florida chapter, and he serves as a board member on the President's prevents Task Force and the villa very veterans Advisory Committee. Is that enough? There's more, but

Speaker 1  20:40
I think that's way too much, you know, way too much the

Bill Clearfield  20:44
idea here, okay, and just so traumatic brain injury is one of, one of my sort of pet, pet projects. So I think we talked a little bit about it when we met. You know, I'm a hormone. I'm the hormone guy here, and so we see a lot of military people, and we'll tell you stories as we go along. But why don't you get started now, now that I gave you that so you can tell us who you really are and why you went to LaSalle College. Okay? So, so everybody. Michael Hartford and thank you so much for

Speaker 1  21:19
being All right. Thank you, Bill. And good evening, everybody. Bill, do you have access to the PowerPoint that I had sent that we could put on the screen?

Bill Clearfield  21:26
I can get it. Yeah, if you want me to,

Speaker 1  21:29
yeah, that would be great. I'd appreciate it. But before that, I just want to go over.

Bill Clearfield  21:34
Usually we, we have you share it, but I can find it. I'll find it.

Speaker 1  21:38
Okay? I usually it's whoever's organizing it,

Bill Clearfield  21:43
yeah, well, that way, see if we do it that way, you you can, you can control it. Otherwise you have, yeah,

Speaker 1  21:55
so I don't know if I have the ability to do that on all right, I have it. Okay, great. Okay, well, before we get started, just let me reiterate the objectives. You know, the topic is traumatic brain injuries amongst military service members and veterans, and the objectives are a better understanding of the correlation between TBI mental health, substance abuse and suicides. And another objective is to learn about accepted Department of Defense, Department of Veterans Affairs and private sector, TBI, interdisciplinary models of care that continue to evolve over time. And the third is some of the medical and moral imperatives that need to happen for the for the day to be a paradigm shift in TBI treatment. And I think all of us that have been in this space or have had patients that have had invisible wounds, oftentimes, the clinicians have been trained to, more often than not, treat the symptoms versus the underlying causes. Can you get that slide up? Those slides up bill please?

Unknown Speaker  23:12
Yeah, let me

Bill Clearfield  23:15
so I have it. I have it. Hang on, I have it this way? Will that work for you?

Speaker 1  23:22
I can't see it, but, oh yeah, there it is. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  23:26
I mean, will it work this way? Or I can probably, I'd have to do something. Will that work that way? Or, No, is

Speaker 1  23:33
that not? I don't. I don't think that it's large enough to actually see All

Bill Clearfield  23:39
right, so get give me a few minutes here.

Speaker 1  23:44
Am I doing that? I just Just a disclaimer that I'm not representing any organization. I'm not being compensated for this presentation, and the topics that I'm talking about are based upon my own research, my own professional experiences. And I just wanted to make sure that everyone is understands that. So thanks getting there.

Bill Clearfield  24:18
Oh, glad you see a whole screen now.

Unknown Speaker  24:21
No, it's still pretty small.

Bill Clearfield  24:36
What about now?

Unknown Speaker  24:40
There you go. Perfect.

Bill Clearfield  24:42
How about you got it? Okay, yeah, that works perfectly. Thanks. So you tell me when to,

Speaker 1  24:47
okay, yeah, just Yeah. You can go to the next, actually, the next slide, and then we'll start with the other slide, the next slide here. So, yeah, that's, that's nothing. I want to say a couple of things that. One is that I've been very fortunate to have a lot of different careers over the last 40, close to 50 years. And based upon those experiences, you know, working in VA healthcare, DOD healthcare, working at the county level with the Florida Department of Health, working in academic medicine, it's really given me a lot of tremendous experiences that I think have helped me understand what some of the real challenges are for our clinicians when it comes to treating those with traumatic brain injuries. And I know this is somewhat remedial from this target audience as it relates to what is a traumatic brain injury, but I think what's important to note is that as we continue to learn more and more about invisible wounds, we understand now, there's a lot of different experiences and events that weren't at one point in time thought to cause any kind of brain trauma. And I think when we look at the military, you look at how they train with their exposure to heavy artillery, there's a lot of blast over exposure. There's a lot of repetitive trauma that the brain experiences from training evolutions just recently, there's a lot of challenges right now, with a lot of former Navy fighter pilots as they would take off and land from aircraft carriers, the abrupt abruptiveness parachute jumping over time. There's a lot of things that we never thought caused brain injuries, but now we're learning more and more and more about that. Next slide, please. Here's, here's, I think, probably one of the biggest challenges when it comes to the medical imperative of really looking at how to really diagnose an individual, because a person with a brain injury, it's invisible. What you'll see is that they look healthy. There's no physical injuries. They talk and walk with minimal issues, yet underneath is visual disturbances, there's memory problems, there's dizziness, there's pain and discomfort, cognitive fatigue, trouble communicating and balance issues. Yet when a person presents themselves to a primary care provider, the likelihood is that primary care provider will refer them to a mental health professional because of the symptoms that they believe are more in the mental health arena that's more psychological and physiological. And unfortunately, when that happens, a lot of people, and certainly with the veteran and military communities, they prescribe a lot of different types of meds that oftentimes are counterproductive to their traumatic brain injury that has been either misdiagnosed or not diagnosed, and that often leads to a downward spiral, which in many instances, Unfortunately, a side effect of a lot of those medications is suicidal ideation, and regrettably, a lot of veterans and service members died by suicide because of that next slide. Please. What happened back in 2007 2008 at the height of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, the global war on terrorism, the Overseas Contingency Operations is more and more of our warriors were coming back with behavioral changes and the Military Health System didn't quite know how to deal and handle those individuals that came back because, as I alluded to in the previous slide, they looked fine, they spoke fine, but their behavior had changed significantly, and more often than not, they were diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. Well, in 2007 the Fisher Foundation has heard that there were a lot of individuals that were getting discharged from the military, or actually getting discharged under less than honorable conditions, because when they came back from a deployment, they weren't the same person that they were prior to so they gifted the Department of Defense $70 million to open up the very first National Intrepid Center of Excellence out of the out of Bethesda, specifically for invisible wounds. This is the type of model of care that the Nico national, Intrepid Center of Excellence started back in 2000 in 10, 2011 when they first started seeing patients after the brick and mortar facility was completed. And if you think about looking at anybody with an invisible wound, there's no cookie cutter approach. It's trial and error, and everybody responds differently to different modalities. And so this is a model of the interdisciplinary model of care that was started back in 2010 when they first started seeing service members at the at the Nico and Bethesda, now the founding director of the Nico is a behavioral neurologist named Jim Kelly. Jim's career was mostly in the world of academia, but he also was the neurologist assigned to the Chicago Blackhawks, and had had done a lot of work on concussive protocol for NCAA. So he was highly recruited out of the world of academia to be the first founding director at the National Intrepid Center of Excellence. He was there for about six or seven years, and he's the one that developed this model of care. Next slide, please.

Speaker 1  31:31
There's been a lot of studies that have been done on

Unknown Speaker  31:35
those

Speaker 1  31:37
service members that have gone through the Nico and it's a program. It's a 30 day program. It's it's a, it's like a, it's not a complete inpatient program, but it is a program where the individuals are participating for a 30 day period, and all of these types of treatment modalities were evaluated, and for the first three to four years, about 1200 service members went through this program, and over 90% not only there was the satisfaction score excellent, but most of them were able to stay in the fight, which means they were not determined to be not physically qualified and medically discharged from the military, so that, in of itself, was a huge change in what had been the norm prior to the National Intrepid Senate elections becoming part of the Military Health System. Next slide, please. You know, yes, in addition to the National Intrepid Center of Excellence, which is focused on those that are still in uniform, there's a lot of different programs specifically for veterans that are challenged with invisible wounds. And as Bill alluded to, the Avalon Action Alliance I've been part of since day one, prior to that becoming a network that is located now in six different locations. I was the Chief Operating Officer and Chief of Staff at the very first veteran centric Traumatic Brain Injury Center located at the inches medical campus in Aurora, Colorado. And the model of care that was started at the National Intrepid Center for Excellence is replicated at all these sites. And Jim Kelly was the first person that started the veteran centric using the model that he started when he was at the Nico. So Jim was the first executive director for the Marcus Institute for Brain Health in Colorado. That's part of the Avalon Action Alliance Network, and the other sites are using same protocols, because we're doing a clinical study now to determine the efficacy of this treatment model. And we've seen a lot of real positive results. There's been a lot of research and a lot of clinical studies already published specifically on this model of care. Another model of care is with the Wounded Warrior Project, and they have four warrior care network sites. One's at UCLA, one's at Emory in Georgia, one's at Rush in Illinois, and one's with affiliated with Mass General in Massachusetts. And those four sites do a lot of the interdisciplinary model of care, but with the exception, I think of Boston the Mass General these the other facilities focus more on the mental health, whereas the Avalon Action Alliance Network focuses on the primary condition of a traumatic brain injury, and the CO morbid conditions associated with that as it relates to mental health, substance abuse and hopefully suicidal ideation, if this, if that's the case. So it really has worked out very, very well that these programs have done tremendous work to help veterans that are really challenged with invisible wounds. Just as aside, the Avalon Action Alliance came to fruition from a gentleman named Bernie Marcus. Bernie Marcus was one of the co founders of Home Depot. He passed away last November, at the ripe old age of 95 he donated $38 million for us to start the very first veteran centric interdisciplinary model of care in Colorado. And fast forward, his partner, who was also co owner of Home Depot, is Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons. So between those two and the Gary Sinise Foundation, we've been blessed to probably get about $100 million of philanthropic funds for that very program in the Wounded Warrior Project. You know, they have done exceptionally well fundraising. I think we've all seen the commercials on TV. They're $300 million nonprofit, and they've been doing great things to help our warriors and their families over many, many, many years. Next slide please. Here's an alarming statistic, if you look at just the bullets on the left, that, in and of itself, is alarming. But if you take a look at this slide, this was published in the Journal of Neurology. I think it was in 2022 or 2023 if you look at the suicide rates of veterans with TBI, it went in a 15 year span, from less than 10 per 100,000 to over 90 per 100,000 and the veteran population at large went from that 6% to almost 40, Well, actually 60,000 per 100,000 as you can see, the adult civilian population has remained stagnant over that period of time. As it relates to those that have died by suicide, that's an epidemic, and it's been an absolute challenge to get our arms around. Why? Every year the VA and DoD allocate millions and millions of dollars towards suicide prevention, yet there's really been absolutely no changes. And if, in fact, it's gone up over the years. This is and so most of the funds that go towards suicide prevention have gone towards the mental health aspect of it. And my theory is that when you talk about 1820 22 veterans that die on a daily basis from primarily self inflicted gunshot wounds. I think if you peel the onion back and you were able to do a forensic autopsy on their brain that a good number of them had had a brain injury that was misdiagnosed or never diagnosed and had the same scenario that I alluded to earlier. Mental Health, psychotropic meds, suicidal ideation when you're dealing with traumatic brain injury, as the slide alludes to the significance of being, I guess, being addicted to and having substance abuse issues, whether it be alcohol, whether it be drugs, in most instances, it's a combination of both, because that brain is not working properly, the person masks their pain by taking the drugs and the medications, and it has, oftentimes, it has A fatal effect. But that's, that's an alarming statistic. Next slide, please. So one of the things that has happened, and I think everyone on this, on this call, has probably done a lot of work and continues to a lot of work on some of those non traditional TBI modalities that have become more and more popular over the last several years. I met Mark Gordon at a brain summit a little over a year ago in Tampa, and he gave a presentation, and afterwards, we got to chatting, and you know, fast forward, we'd become good friends. But I really have done a lot of research on his protocol with Millennium healthcare. And conceptually it, it makes a lot of sense that if there's a chemical imbalance in the brain that's causing the brain to be inflamed, until that brain is treated effectively with the chemicals and having hormone levels that are conducive to what the pituitary gland should be producing, the likelihood is that they're not going to benefit as much from All the other modalities, unless or until the inflammation is is eradicated or minimized. And so I think I know Bill you, you do a lot of hormone you see a lot of veterans. I'm guessing that there's a lot that probably have low levels that, okay, I'm on

Bill Clearfield  40:58
Mark's proteges, so, okay, almost 10 years now. So, okay, okay.

Speaker 1  41:05
And so I really do believe, I do believe that that's a real big issue for all of those that have an invisible wound, even if it's not a TBI, if there's information in the brain in some way, shape or form because of stress? I mean, who knows, but I do think that that's that's the key to all the other different modalities that are available. And as we all know, there's a tremendous amount of energy right now on hyperbaric oxygen, oxygen theory for traumatic brain injury, mild traumatic brain injuries, in the state of Florida, they've allocated $25 million to do a clinical study on veterans at the University of South Florida, and that's in year two, to see what benefits exist. There also transcranial magnetic stimulation, that has also been the modality of the state of Florida, is funding for any veteran who might benefit from TMS to be able to go to various different clinics throughout the entire state to get that modality. I will say that I don't think that there's really any one modality that will ever do what everybody would hope it would do, and that is address the issues as it relates to invisible wounds. I think it's always going to be a model that includes multiple different modalities, some of your traditional mainstream medical modalities, but also some of these other modalities that are becoming more and more popular, and photobiomodulation is another big one. There was a Heritage Foundation PBS special on May 1 that spoke about the benefits of photobiomodulation and hyper oxygen in the treatment of traumatic brain injuries, injuries, and then in chiropractic care, cervical chiropractic care, that's getting a lot of traction as well. And then, just in the last few years, the psychedelic assisted therapies, ketamine treatment, there's a lot of studies going on right now, VA has allocated millions of dollars for study that's going on now up in the Northeast on psychotropic meds under obviously a very monitored setting. And DOD, and their budget, allocated $25 million and that's being piloted at the Walter Reed facility in Bethesda. So there's a lot of traction going on with that. I just got notified a couple of days ago that there's a $735,000 gift, a grant from the state of Florida for a ketamine and a protocol involving ketamine and using marks protocol for clinical study. So there's a lot going on as it relates to getting more exposure to some of these models that unfortunately aren't, aren't embraced by mainstream medicine in most instances. Next slide, please. I'm sorry, you

Bill Clearfield  44:19
should have been around the first time we tried to get a hormone panel done from the VA in Reno here, you should have heard the four letter words hurled at me. Now we're kind of accepted, actually. So,

Speaker 1  44:35
you know, we I think things have changed, but I still think that this tremendous amount of pushback, and these are some of the things the moral medical period is, I think there's a tremendous amount of pushback in the world of academia, because there's not decades and decades of research and clinical studies to validate and verify the efficacy of a lot of the modalities. And I also think, as I mentioned here, I'll just kind of go through this lease state and federal legislation and policy changes, I think just January of this year, CMS now identifies traumatic brain injuries as a chronic condition. It was categorized as an acute condition before that, and I think that that will help over time and hopefully with healthcare reform, so that a lot of the modalities that are clearly benefiting patients with TBI will become an accepted modality for the purpose of getting reimbursed.

Bill Clearfield  45:34
Our mic drop quote, at least mine, is, you know, where are the where are the hormones generated from? What organs,

Unknown Speaker  45:44
pituitary,

Bill Clearfield  45:47
the pituitary, the hypothalamus and the pituitary, correct, most of them are or originate from. So if you, if you shake those up in some manner, what do you think is going to

Speaker 1  46:01
happen? And especially if you have an incident with you are within a certain distance of an IED explosion, which is about 25,000 miles an hour, and it literally rocks your head and lists you off the ground. And within seconds, you have two significant brain, brain injuries which happened, which has happened frequently over the last 20 years,

Bill Clearfield  46:28
right? The hypothalamus only has two thin nerves that that innervate it with no blood supply, and the and the pituitary has two very tiny arteries. It doesn't take much to tear them. And okay, and then, then, then what we need to do is teach you what the what to look for in hormone excesses and deficiencies. And then, once you know that, it all makes sense.

Speaker 1  46:51
It makes a lot of sense. A lot of sense. You know, one of the things that has happened, it was last August where the Secretary that the Deputy Secretary for DOD, came out with a policy on changing training and initiating baseline cognitive testing for all new recruits in the military and for all those that are serving in what are called high risk designators. And I think that's going to be really important to mitigate the kinds of TV eyes that we've been seeing over the last 20 years. I think another thing that is important with with VA is and I've been fighting with VA, even though I work for VA, I've been fighting with VA since 2018 when they passed the mission. It's called the mission act, and that mission act is supposed to allow veterans to get more care in the community if they so choose, if they meet one of six criteria. And it has failed miserably, because the VA has pushed back time and time again. And I mean, I love VA. I think the quality care is good, but when you have changes in leadership every you know, every two or three or four years, you don't get that kind of synergy over time, because everybody has a different agenda when they become a leader, if you're a political appointee. So that's been a real challenge. But I do think that there's enough traction now, and there's a lot less rigidity in the VA healthcare system than there has been in years past. And one of the things I like being, being at at this stage of my life is I don't have to worry about getting fired. I don't have to worry about getting promoted. So I don't have to be politically correct, and I leverage the things that I think are tremendously important for for the cultures to change within DOD and VA, to the degree that you know, when I'm on Zoom meetings and speaking to high level officials or our political political appointees and also with our lawmakers, I tell it like it is, because I think, I think that needs to be done. The other thing is, is, if we look at our healthcare system, it's, it's so stove piped, you know, you have your primary care providers, your navigator, you get consults to here, there, here, there. And oftentimes it takes forever to get all these consults to be seen, but they lose the synergy with the model of care that has been promulgated since 2010 at the National Intrepid Center of Excellence. You know that introduce interdisciplinary model of care every single one of those clinicians communicate with each other every single day, every time a patient is in the program, before the patient even gets there, the entire team thoroughly reviews the medical records, and when that patient gets to the Center for treatment, they have what's called a fishbowl, And that is that individual has a meeting with the entire clinical team at the same time and tells his or her story just one time, just one time. And to me, I'm sure we've all experienced Well, why are you here for me? Doug, you know, like a lot of times, the healthcare system doesn't allow for the time that's needed for clinicians to really do a thorough review of their patients, in terms of reviewing the meta workers and knowing enough about them before they come to an appointment to be able to address the issues that are at that time, as opposed to asking them questions, the same questions over and over again. I think another thing is when you talk about TBI, it's almost always talked about under the umbrella of mental health, and I believe that it should be a separate autonomous condition, because it is physiological, not psychological. But everyone that has a brain injury that I've ever seen has always had behavioral challenges. And so I really think it should be in its own category. And I think a lot of the things that that have caused some of the modalities that I alluded to in a previous slide, you know, and obviously marks and and I think yours as well, Bill, and I'm sure others on this call, is that Big Pharma has had such an impact and influence on our healthcare system. And I'm hoping, irrespective of your political viewpoints, I'm hoping that that with this administration, that there'll be a lot of changes so that big pharma does not have the same club in the future as it has had in the past, because I think it's been, in many instances, very counterproductive. And I think when we talk about healthcare reform, you know, people that go through our program, it's, it's a three week program, it's 30 to $40,000 people can't afford that. You know, hyperbaric oxygen, there's a program up the street here that was it's now it's gone down to about 18,000 for 40 dives, and none of that is covered by insurance. So until, unless we get health care reform, we're not dealing with or able to deal with the population at large that could benefit from the tremendous amount of modalities that are not embraced right now in mainstream medicine. You know, I think another thing that's an absolute imperative, and that is change curriculums in med schools and other allied health professions, because I think until you know what the underlying causes are of an invisible wound, you'll not be able to treat the symptoms. Will be treating the symptoms, not because of what their actual baseline or underlying causes are. And the last one is with all of the veterans that come through that have had any kind of trauma while in the military that they absolutely should apply for VA disability. So that, in a nutshell, concludes my presentation, and I'd be happy to entertain questions, or if anybody ever wants to get a hold of me. You have my contact information with that, I'll turn it back over to you, Bill. Look at the chat. Well,

Bill Clearfield  53:24
first of all, let's take a look at the chat here and see if we have any questions.

Speaker 1  53:33
I'm going to put down the next summit that is coming up in Tampa. I'm going to put the link to that's the one that I had met Mark at last year. There's a second annual summit, a sub concussive Summit, and it's, it's at no cost, and I really would encourage people to attend, is a lot of exceptional speakers. And I think Mark speaking again this year as well, and it's in, I think it's the third and fourth of September. So for all those that are on this, if there's an interest in that, please take a look at that link and feel free to RSVP,

Bill Clearfield  54:10
yeah. So you got doc Dr Joni Collins, said she has something called the time machine from CSN. I'm not familiar with that. What that is? Do you know what that is? Or, Dr Collins, if you're on,

Speaker 4  54:24
Hi, how are you? Thank you. Lightness, so cell, surgical network. I'm trying to put on my camera here. Sorry, it's me, but who cares? I'm a PA, a physician assistant and a doctor of osteopathic medical science. It's a new branch for pas. There's about 100 of us in the country, but in 2020 during COVID. I was really blessed to meet Sean Berman, who is the son of Doctor Mark Berman, who's passed unfortunately during COVID, but his partner, Doctor Elliot lander, they both had been working extensively in research for fat stem cell, or using your own fat and seeing healing. And so this actual, you know, device, it's a chlorophyte centrifuge, but it has different pistons to clean, you know, the adipose and minimally manipulated, you know, all the blah blah that you have to follow. Long story short, ended up helping my dad. My dad had a stroke. My partnering physician, we used his, you know, adipose or, you know, mesenchymal stem cell, and was think of all. So the thing that I think we don't touch on is that we age every day, and it's not a one and done, and inflammation is everything. So at my office, I'm under an esthetic umbrella. So it's in my scope, but it's optimizing the patient on a cellular level, epigenetics, genetics, you know, a certain biomarkers, but inflammation is the key to everything. And so I put in the in the in the links here, how this connects to TBI, PTSD and blast injury, and Sean Berman, marks. Dr Berman, who passed away his son, did clinical research on this, and we see improvement with it. So my life song is hopefully down the road that I will be able to write a grant and get help, to be able to have a center for this, because I really believe in it, and I have something called a vibe bed. It's a bioharmonic bed that even helps with neuroplasticity. So I use it in my patients. Actually use it for my daughter, that's how I found out about it. But if you all have the chance look into something, I don't work for them, you know, I'm an affiliate with cell surgical network, but there's something called l2 bio, and you can actually send off about five, you know, teaspoons of adipose, and they can store it to have it on call, and it's your own cells. So I think that's it's just pretty neat to see that, but also optimizing it, knowing that we age every day, inflammation is repetitive, and so we will need to be treated more than once. So there's so many things I don't know, but I'm definitely highly passionate about this, and I'm just thankful for this talk, because there's so many people that really need help.

Speaker 1  57:06
Absolutely, absolutely go ahead. Bill, go ahead. Go ahead. Mike, no, I have a friend of mine who has started some clinics. It's called we pellet, and there's one in San Diego, one in Bradenton, Florida, one in Orlando. And they're building more over the country, and I believe they do use that time machine method, but it is definitely getting a lot of traction. But once again, it costs 1000s of dollars for people to go through these kinds of programs and and your average middle class American will afford to do that, unfortunately.

Speaker 4  57:48
So l2 bio is actually just an adipose biopsy, so it's about 500 bucks. So there's something definitely affordable that's out there. Just if you all research into it, it'd be something maybe you could bring to your clinics. Okay, thank you. I'll look into that. It's called we

Speaker 1  58:03
we pellet. Yeah, you just do a wee pellet Google search.

Speaker 4  58:06
Fantastic. Yes. Okay. Thank you so much. If you have any questions,

Speaker 1  58:10
you have my contact information, or if you want to send me information,

Speaker 4  58:13
I will definitely connect with you afterwards. I really appreciate you. Thank you. You're welcome, Jay

Bill Clearfield  58:20
and do we have your contact? Dr Collins, just, I'll

Speaker 4  58:23
put it in the chat. Thank you guys. I also teach esthetics and regenerative stuff, but it falls under the scope, so it's nice.

Bill Clearfield  58:29
Okay, well, it sounds like we need to have you on also.

Unknown Speaker  58:33
Oh, I'm so thankful for you all. Thank you so much.

Unknown Speaker  58:36
Okay, just got yourself a

Bill Clearfield  58:38
gig. Yeah, that's what happens, you know, and if you're good at it, we'll invite you back. That's even worse. Okay? Dr Leonard speaking about chiropractic cervical care as a niche, and he's encouraging our osteopathic heritage for manipulative care. He says he's tried to provide care to vets, but it's a closed system for referrals outside of their system. So and also Dr Collins, S V, F, S M, S C, mesenchymal stem, stem cell,

Speaker 4  59:20
terminal, vascular fraction, that's all. It's just a rich soup of Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  59:24
yeah and yeah. So we've, we know those, those of you have listened to listen to me drone on. You've heard me talk about opioids and testosterone deficiencies. So we were well aware of that

Speaker 4  59:39
and only kept it obvious. Sorry. I was just excited.

Bill Clearfield  59:45
There's, there's Michaels, the contact there, I guess, something custom summit.com, and you want to get that? Dr Nario, so we have it, we'll put it. We'll put it on the newsletter. You have any questions? Dr Nario from,

Speaker 3  1:00:07
yeah, yeah. So we have some online here. So Mike, Michael, thank you so much for that great presentation. And it would have been nice if you've met our, one of our main guys, Joel, who is, who's a veteran, and he speaks a lot about this type of condition, and I think Dr Bill was one of the major players in his recovery in relation to his TBI experience. So he's an advocate for for the vets, but I'm sure you're going to cross paths someday. But one of the things that was, well, I'd also want to acknowledge the VA having one of the I guess they're branching out into integrative services also. And they have whole health I guess services, as they call it, so that's the name, and I learned about this during the fellowship. So as I kind of got my eyes open that the government, or the VA specifically, is starting to branch out towards integrative medicines in your in your experience, what integrative approaches has been, specifically being, being accepted by by the VA. And then, how can the vets utilize these resources?

Speaker 1  1:01:16
Yeah, that's, that's a great question. You know, VA has started a whole health program that any veteran can enroll in, and have a life coach available to them that they can talk to, whether it be in person or virtual meetings on an ongoing basis, to be able to focus on some of those issues that that have had an negative impact on a veteran's quality of life, whether it be obesity, whether it be substance abuse, sedentary diet, all of those things are incorporated in this whole health program that VA started several years ago. And I think that, you know, one of the challenges is there's a significant male elderly population in the VA Healthcare System, and I think a lot of them are at a point in their life they they're just, unfortunately, they're ignorant of some of the things that would really enhance the quality of their Life. So VA has been trying to market that as well so that more of the veteran population, irrespective of age, can benefit from more preventive as opposed to reactive kinds of issues. So VA has really, I have to applaud VA in the last several years, because they've become much more open to being proactive, much more open to modalities that were never embraced before, and I think that they're going to continue in that direction. Because I think as younger veterans use the system, their needs are different than the large elderly population that that VA serves. Great question. Thank you.

Speaker 3  1:03:04
Yeah. And as you mentioned a while ago, that I think I heard you saying men in the in the military, right? So I have patients who are also veterans who are women. The the thing here is, I don't know if this is just me, but the misconception that TBI only occurs with men who are out there, you'd be surprised that even women are more prone to actually endure TBI, for the reasons that hormonal changes actually affects them more compared to men. So there is a number of VA women that I see who are also suffering from this condition. So again, those are the stereotypes that we always hear about. But and also, another stereotype is we need to always hear about massive TBI damage. You need to have an explosion. You need to have somebody hit you in the head. Not really, but there are really, like, small, small, accumulative, cumulative injuries in the head, small head on the head, right, hitting your head on a pole. So these are really all about repetitive accumulations. So that misconception should be put out there, even not only for us assessing VA patients, but even for our own patients out there who are going through this. And I'm sure you have most common misconceptions that you encounter also in no

Speaker 1  1:04:21
and I think you can literally never lose consciousness and have a brain injury from sub concussive events. And I think that that's not something that is well known. The link that I sent out on this sub concussive conference, it's the first ever international speakers. It really is starting to increase the visibility of those kinds of issues that, in fact, cause traumatic brain injury, injuries over time. As it relates to women veterans, about 20% of the veteran population now are about 1818. To 20 are females. It was only two or 3% in World War Two, but they've opened up the aperture as it relates to they can serve in any any designator. So you're absolutely right. A lot of female veterans are absolutely exposed and have head injuries, and a lot of them are also exposed to military sexual trauma, which is definitely a life changer. And oftentimes, a lot of women veterans don't even self identify as veterans because of their negative experiences serving in the military.

Speaker 3  1:05:30
As you, as you mentioned, Whole Health already. So this is basically the integrative medicine arm of the VA. And as we all, as us being advocates of integrative medicine, we focus on prevention, so having better brain health, brain structure, even before you go out into the field. I mean, and of course, we utilize our omegas, magnesium, theory, curcumin, all of our supplements, just to make sure that that occurs. Is that something that you're seeing that basically, VA would be starting to open, I mean, not only if there's supplements, but acupuncture or yoga mindfulness, so all of these other brand I know you did mention the health coach, but are you seeing in the future, they're going to branch out towards these resources for our veterans?

Speaker 1  1:06:16
Absolutely. And I can tell you firsthand from my experiences. I've I've had VA authorized acupuncture care for me, which is unheard of. I've had VA authorized medical massages for me, which is unheard of. So, yeah, I mean, the paradigm is absolutely shifting, right? And if you think about it, and this is one of the things that I try to communicate when I'm talking to decision makers at high levels within VA DoD or any kind of health system, and that is, if you can focus on the preventive component, then the quality of the person's life is going to be better, and their overall health care costs in a lifetime will be significantly

Speaker 3  1:06:56
less. Right? Again, yes, I mean, I know this is still going to progress, but as I could see, you're one of the beneficiaries of these types of services, and as you now become the voice that would now tell everybody that this really works. And here's another good question, what barriers do veterans face in seeking this separate care?

Speaker 1  1:07:21
I think there's a high level of ignorance in the bureaucracy of the system is very difficult to navigate. I'm obviously a well educated healthcare consumer, so I know where to go, what questions to ask, and if someone says no, I know how to go to the next step to hopefully get the answer that I believe is the right answer. But if you're dealing with you know, 2223 year old kid that just served four years in the military, that has a high school education, and they go the VA system, it's it's a difficult healthcare system to navigate, and that's why one of the things I do is, I'm a VP for nonprofit that is does a lot of advocacy for veterans, primarily in the community I live in, to help overcome some of those barriers. Because, yeah, I mean, it's when you hit a roadblock as a 22 year old. They say, No, the likelihood is you're going to walk away, or you have a very negative experience with VA, and you say, well, the system sucks, and they go elsewhere,

Speaker 3  1:08:23
right? And also, I think education is very important here, that for you, as a veteran, you need to understand the symptoms of even post incursion syndrome. Sometimes, as a man, you're going to be thinking like, Oh, I'm fine. I'm doing okay. This is my normal me. It's just just stress. There's so many compounding factors here that education needs to be emphasized, especially to our veterans. And again, even the clinicians that are working in the VA needs to be educated about it so they can actually spread that word for the veterans to understand so and yeah, and definitely, there's so much more out there, for sure. Here's another one. What prevention strategies are emphasized now to minimize TBI for our veterans?

Speaker 1  1:09:10
Well, I think I allude to the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Defense signed a policy as of the first of January for every new recruit that comes into the military to have a cognitive baseline test. And I think oftentimes, if you look at the behavioral traits of a lot of people that are attracted to the military, you know the enlisted workforce, primarily, you know, not your best student, usually probably a subpar athlete, but they are patriotic. They come from, you know, maybe not a very good family environment. They just want to get out of dodge wherever they're living. And they have a propensity, probably, to have some high risk behavioral traits. And so I think part of what I think is important is to understand that these are important variables that I think are fact that need to be factored into why there's a high suicide rate the veteran population. But what we're trying to do is make the right decisions on who should and who shouldn't serve in the military by doing the kinds of tests prior to so that the likelihood is if they do have an injury or an issue in the military, it's not a pre existing condition, and while you're in uniform with that concussive baseline, anytime you are exposed, if it's a training accident, car accident, Motorcycle Accident, deployment, anything is that if you have that baseline and you can repeat that test, if there's significant changes, you keep them out of the situation to obviously, you know having back to back concussions is is much greater with having long term TBI symptoms than if it's concussion, the the brain heals, and weeks or months go by and you're and you're operating in your your your back to your baseline. So there's a lot of real positive things going on as it relates to the preventive component of serving in the military. As

Speaker 3  1:11:16
a good thing you mentioned about that, because one of the things that I've heard before was the screening of, like, post blast exposures. So that's definitely something that you definitely want to compare from, from the initial baseline. And you now will have the the change. You will see that change once you actually do this the right way. And I don't know, this is my curiosity. I mean, the protective head gear, are these really evaluated, real well, I mean, did they check that? I mean, I don't know how, in terms of training, being in the field, do they wear different helmets for that? So, because that's where your protection is, it's on the head. So

Speaker 1  1:11:51
and you know, even your hearing, the hearing tools, to the degree that's really making an impact on on your safety, yeah, and those are, there's a lot of research going on. In fact, there's several billions of dollars in the next budget, specifically on developing protocols for, you know, for brain imaging equipment, supplies, training to help make the workforce a safer workforce, right? I'm sure you're not

Speaker 3  1:12:27
going to send your soldiers out with your bicycle helmet, so you definitely want to make sure you reinforce that. So here's the I guess the this is your kind of like capping off question, if you have one message that you wish every veteran would would hear about TBI. What would that be?

Speaker 1  1:12:46
I would say to not if you have any type of trauma and you feel different when I say different, those symptoms that I that I referenced earlier, you know, brain fog, balance, any of those things, get an assessment, get an evaluation, and make sure that you express those issues to whoever you're speaking to, from a clinical perspective, because I think, as as I think whoever said is, so Many people walk around with brain fog and TBI symptoms and they think, well, that's just the way I am, if it's not the way that that you once were. I mean, I've had several head injuries and and there's times when when my cognitive abilities are so acute that I can't believe how much I can comprehend at a given time. But then there's times when I've had a head injury where it's like, it takes a while for for things to clear up, and I'm actually, you know, participating in Marks protocol right now and and so I do think that, yeah, it is if, if there's changes in your behavior that include those issues that are physiological, see you, Doc,

Speaker 3  1:14:02
that would that was a great answer. You, you win the beauty pageant for that so well. Michael, thank you so much. You have knocked out all my questions. Thank you. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:15
Well, it's only 604, it's a little early for us to be, to be saying good night. I mean, we can say good night. Would anybody be interested in Clearfield, yes, yes. Michael,

Speaker 5  1:14:30
hello, hello, hello. Hi, Dr. Michael Gerber, here a few comments. I think one of the most powerful thing for TBI is and post concussion illness is a crown of thorns, where you take 1% procaine. This is old German neural therapy. Been around since 1905 which I learned from Klinghardt, but he learned from lot of other German guys. But you do 1% procaine around the biggest circumference of the head, starting with the old third eye, with a 2730 gage needle, and you do a little bubble under the skin. Bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom bom around the greatest circumference of the head, and it wakes up nerves that have been injured or damaged, also paying particular attention if there's any obvious scars infiltrate the scars with procaine, and we've seen a great many cognitive disturbances clear up. So don't forget crown of thorns with 1% protein neuro therapy. It's inexpensive and it's quick, and if you do a couple of sessions a week or two apart, and nothing changes. It's not worthwhile, but frequently you'll see some marvelous changes. Even you know people have, you know, automobile accidents and everyday concussions. Also, I agree with Doctor Clearfield, everybody with head injury has hormonal deficiency, so everybody's adrenal is beat up after head injuries, so supporting the adrenal gland is very important. And then, as well as doing a nutritional supplementation for everybody, you know, and and even good old homeopathy, things even like Arnica and staff of sagina for old injury and act an item for anxiety. All these guys could be very helpful in the pie for PTSD, but neurotherapy and crown of thorns is really awesome, and it's inexpensive and everybody can do it. So my two cents worth, okay, I'm gonna try that out. What I do for concussions, and I see it. My population soccer players, young girls who head balls and female soccer is pretty violent sport. I don't recommend it. I give them synapse in. It's RG three with methylcobalamin plus RG three, ging and nicotinamide riboside. So that's brain food, ging extract and A, B, 12. And they breathe it right up into the brain through the nose, two sniffs, both nostrils, twice daily for about a week. And we used to be able to get intranasal bpcu, 157, and TV, 500 and we would do that intranasally as well, but we can't get that anymore, so we just stick with synapse and and put them in the hyperbaric chamber as well. So that's what we do here.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:31
Okay, great. And Dr Collins writes about using PRF instead of procaine. So platelet rich fiber, is that what you're alluding Yes, sir. I'm just wondering

Speaker 4  1:17:49
if that would work, because it's for inflammation and it's using your own cells. It would be, I don't think there's any studies on it, but Dr Gerber, that would be interesting to see, because it does help with inflammatory response and neuropathy.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:02
Yeah, the issue there would be, I think, cost. I mean, procaine, cost. What the 20 cent? 2010 bucks a bottle, you know, it'll last you

Speaker 4  1:18:11
forever, $13 I can teach you how to do it for $13

Bill Clearfield  1:18:18
okay, all right.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:21
Dr, Bill, your progesterone.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:26
Yeah, okay. There you go. September. What did we say we got? Dr Siegel, on the September 9 was September 30? Dr, Collins, you're on,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:36
game on you're gonna

Bill Clearfield  1:18:38
September 30, 5pm you're going to teach us. 13

Speaker 4  1:18:42
bucks. Seriously. Oh, perfect. I'm so excited. Absolutely,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:47
okay, all right, this is how we do it. Here. What I was

Speaker 3  1:18:53
Dr Bill, don't, don't forget your progesterone. That's your, that's the TBI remedy that you, you suggested before.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:59
That is good. That's going to be my. They were intrigued with that at the at the androgen society about using Project progesterone to stimulate testosterone production, particularly in young men. So that's going to be, I think that's going to be my, my ticket in the door.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:19
No, but for TBI, you use that for TBI, remember?

Bill Clearfield  1:19:24
Yeah, oh, yeah. So what I was going to say, since we have, you know, a few minutes, you know, we're kind of early, is, if any, is anybody interested, I could do just a, maybe a half hour of hormones, TBI and hormones. Would you, know, give you a couple of highlights? Would you be interested in that? Or do you want to go, go out and play it's because it says it's summertime.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:51
No, go ahead. Everybody likes education here.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:59
So the so my presentation, Michael, is about four hours, but we'll, we'll, we'll cut it down to some of the, some of the essentials here.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:16
Can you see my screen at all?

Unknown Speaker  1:20:19
No, no,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:21
not at all. Okay, let me. Let me. I

Unknown Speaker  1:20:22
mean, I think that's your screen. You were presenting the slides

Speaker 1  1:20:25
you still have. You still have my my slides up here.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:28
Okay, so stop that. Share my screen. Here we go. There's that. Okay, can you see that? Now? I

Unknown Speaker  1:20:45
Oh, there, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:01
okay, I was muted. Sorry. Okay. I'm just going to give you a sort of a brief rundown of some of the some of the hormones and what, what the symptoms are. So you know this concept came about by by the discovery in 1985 from some researchers in Paris of that neuro steroids and that the the brain actually makes, it has the has its own steroidogenic pathway. It makes its own hormones separate from the periphery. And so the the the neurosteroids are pregnant alone, progesterone, allopregnanolone, DHEA, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone and cortisol. So those are the neurosteroids, and so progesterone and Allo, Allo, progesterone and DHEA protect neurons. If, in traumatic brain injury, they protect nerves from oxidative stress. They promote neuro regeneration. They regenerate myelin. They reduce inflammatory cytokines, and they reduce interleukins. Alzheimer's or dementia patients a TBI, victims of both, both exhibit a deficiency and allopregnalone in their frontal lobes. Allopregnanolone is the trigger for the calming neurotransmitter. Here we go. Here's my here's my dementia. Michael, what's the what's the calming neurotransmit, glutamine, what's the GABA? GABA, so Alright, and so here are the concentrations of, again, the neurosteroids. This is in the periphery here, and as you can see in the brain, the post menopausal brain in the luteal phase, progesterone and pregnenolone, you can see is much more concentrated in the brain and in the periphery. Progesterone prevents neuronal loss. It reduces myelin loss, it attenuates interleukin 1b and TNF alpha. Pregnenolone regulates transmission in the hippocampus. Pregnenolone is your hormone of memory and learning. We measure this on every one of our patients, and it really correlates quite nicely with the the lab values 90 to 110 and I, the units escape me at the moment is our sweet spot there. Post TBI, depression, stress and memory processes are related to behavioral aspects of the neuro active steroids, steroid hormones. And what you'll find is that the typical, and Michael, you can relate to this, I'm sure the typical SSRIs, that any anxiety agency, any depressive agents, usually don't work very well in these conditions. And then the, you know, the practitioners add in two, two medications, three medications, four medications, and then they have to add in two or three to counteract the side effects. High doses of anti anxiety agents and antidepressants suppress brain hormone production in the brain, most commonly, LH, FSH and growth hormone are affected here, dr, dr Dario, here's your zinc copper ratio. Okay, and zinc copper ratio becomes unbalanced, and with an associated accumulation of albumin, or rather, aluminum, in the brain, increase decrease zinc production increases the production of beta amyloid. And our dose here is 30 to 60 milligrams of zinc with a concurrent 15 to one dose of copper. This is a chart of the percentage of change in hormone levels within the in the white here is 24 within 24 hours of a traumatic brain injury. And the the black here is is a it was 96 hours of a traumatic brain injury, and this is percentage of patients. And as you can see here, of cortisol levels will decrease by more than 50% free t3 by more than 50% this is in males testosterone, almost 100% of the males have some change in testosterone levels. And LH also will decrease by 50% so you can see the hormones are quite affected. The first hormone that is affected is growth hormone. That's the first and most common with an acute injury. There's a it's at about a 20% rate of affected growth hormone, and if left unchecked in up to in 12 months, it's it actually increases to 35 to 45 40% of survivors have a growth hormone deficiency. Growth Hormone defects result in issues with memory, concentration, starting projects easily or not, finishing projects easily or not, what we call executive function, anxiety and obsessive compulsive tendencies. And you you think about your veteran who's had a head injury, and they have all of these, you know, all of these symptoms, and they're given, you know, all sorts of medications, and the growth hormone is not looked at. Traumatic brain injury with growth hormone deficiency results in rapid weight gain, depression, different difficulty with attention, memory, emotion, moods changes, depression and executive functioning. And, you know, you these are easily measured. I mean, these are these. These are not things that are that are, you know, exotically, exotically measured. And with we have a cash lab that we deal with and it, you know, it's $350 for the whole for the whole set with for 10 hormones. Pretty much the same thing. Improvements in interleukin six, interleukin 1c reactive protein and homocysteine, when we normalize growth hormone and again, concentration, memory, fatigue, lean, body mass. So lab values growth hormone itself. I don't usually measure this all the time. I use IGF one growth hormone is difficult to get an accurate measurement. You have to do it within a certain period of time, from the time it's drawn. The lab tech has to be careful with the tubes that the cells are easy to break and the growth hormone levels are not very accurate. IGF one is a little bit more stable. You want that about 200 to 250 IGF BP three already getting into the weeds. That's a that's a transport protein, and you want that about 4000 here's our remedies here, and we usually start with the peptides first. So semirellon, which is a growth hormone releasing hormone, and with a gonadotropin releasing hormone, we usually use CJC 1295 which is a newer one with drug affinity complex DC, that's a once a week dose, or without it, it's a it's a five day a week dose. There's homeopathic sprays that will raise testosterone, or rather growth hormone levels by about 15 to 20% over about three months. And there's something called Ibu to Moran, or mk 677, which is a pill form 10 milligrams for females, 25 for males. Thyroid, 10 to 30% of TBI patients develop hypothyroidism. We end up with an elevated reverse t3 this is usually reflects stress on an increase in cortisol also. And this is from the, you know, the neuro degenerative issues that happen. We get a decrease in total t3 usually t4 is either not affected or increased slightly. We like the combinations, the t3 t4, combinations, either the the compounded ones. There's two commercial ones that are available, the still armor and NP thyroid. I tend to use the NP thyroid, the armor has some gluten in it and and some dairy in its coating, and so some of the patients are kind of sensitive to that. Symptoms of hypothyroidism. 98% of the time it's going to be hypothyroid that you're going to see dry skin, dry hair, fingernails crack and break, constipation, can't lose weight, cold all the time, tired all day long, and the outer third of the eyebrow will will thin out. And so those are the symptoms of hypothyroidism. There's cognitive issues with low thyroid and psychosis. With low thyroid, cortisol levels, you'll get an increase in the cortisol response in the am cortisol response with an increase in ACTH, an increase in cortisol, and you'll you there's a corresponding production of reverse t3 about 90 to 95% at a time when reverse t3 is elevated, it's due to elevated cortisol. We use that as a screen. I know a lot of folks use the four point cortisol saliva test, which is, you know, probably the most accurate. But this is a good screen. It only costs about $10 that the saliva test goes anywhere from 90 to 200 is usually not covered by anybody. And symptoms here would be when the when your patients wake up, they're tired, they need something to keep them going. In the mid morning, they have fatigue. In the afternoon, they're exhausted by new by dinner time, but later at night, they get a second wind, and they're there. They get a

Bill Clearfield  1:30:57
they're wide awake, and that's when they do their best work, or their best thinking at eight o'clock, nine o'clock, 10 o'clock, then they have trouble sleeping, and there's usually sugar and salt cravings that go with it. Cortisol can be tempered with DHEA. So there's a DHEA or cortisol DHEA ratio that you can you can calculate and when cortisol levels are high, DHEA levels are usually low, and anywhere from 10 to 25 milligrams of DHEA can usually at least bring about a temporary relief with from high cortisol level, testosterone is one of The main hormones and cognitive functions deals with mood stabilization, motivation, strength, energy deficiencies will result in depression, fatigue, suicide, ideation. This is where the suicide comes from. You'll see testosterone deficiency. Adequate testosterone will attenuate inflammatory cytokines that protects against mitochondrial dysfunction and improves seizure control and testosterone and depression post TBI. So the patient, your patients, are at risk for testosterone induced depression when the total testosterone is less than 300 and you're going to get a frank depression when the testosterone is at 150 that's for total. For the free, it's about half, half the level of each of that so, and here's that. So the depression is 147 free of 3.0 for females, it's 22 and 11. For the risk and depression and free is one and 0.5 so Michael talked about suicide. It's the 10th leading cause of death in the US, and there's a direct relationship between depression and suicide. Men are four times the risk of the suicide than women. Suicide attempts are inversely related to testosterone levels. And I got this statistic from Dr Davidson, who always speaks about suicide at the Noma conferences. And he says that the peak years for men are 80 to 90 and women 50 to 65 and so I'll leave it at that testosterone is an anti anxiety agent. Improves cognitive function. And the other hormone you want to look at is prolactin. Low prolactin levels or are a tip off that the patients have some treatment resistant either anxiety or depression. High dopamine levels inhibit prolactin. And the level that you want to see of prolactin is greater than 6.0 normal is 11 to 14, and you know, 50, 6070, that's where you get your pituitary adenomas. All I'll quit here, or I'll quit after some estrogen here. So estrogen maintains blood flow to the brain. So those of us that were doing you know, testosterone replacement, and early on, and we were getting testosterone levels to 1500 and estradiol levels to zero, realized that we were ending up with memory loss and balance issues and hearing issues and tinnitus. So adequate estrogen lowers the risk of PTSD after trauma. It's a pain modulator that present prevents cell death. It will actually so adequate test estrogen, and if you increase estrogen levels, will increase HDL cholesterol, you know, like, as far as I know, there's still no drugs or supplements that will will do that at least consistently. Estradiol has properties similar to atypical antipsychotics, and it influences dopamine, serotonin and glutamine. Estradiol leads to decreased production of test testosterone, DHEA, progesterone and pregnenolone. Remember, estradiol is, those of us who remember the honeymooners, is sort of the Ralph kramden of hormones is always running around. It's the get rich quick scheme, and it causes all sorts of havoc. Progesterone is your is your balancing agent that it's Alice who calms things down. Progesterone, as we discussed earlier, reduces myelin sheath loss. It attenuates interleukin one, btnf, alpha, and it prevents neuronal blood loss, neuronal loss eight milligrams per kilogram, IV within 24 hours of traumatic brain injury decreases, traumatic brain injury deaths within 30 days by up to 50% we calculate it this way. I'm not going to get into the weeds here, whether it's part of our class. DHEA, like I said, protects against cortisol catabolism. And when cortisol levels are high, stress levels are high, just a low dose of DHEA, 10 to 25 milligrams is a really nice and easy way to sort of counteract that. So So DHEA promotes weight loss. It's sort of a mini testosterone. It increases brain function, it increases lean body mass. It helps one deal with stress. It lowers triglycerides. Pregnant alone is your hormone of memory. It's an anti aging. It's neuro protective. It improves mental wellness. It enhances memory and cognition. It is anti fatigue, improve psycho motor performance. It lowers excess cholesterol. It's an anti arthritic and it's a mood elevator. So allopregnanolone is a metabolite decreased allopregnenolone will create an excited state, and it will end up with either panic attacks, anxiety, major depression and long term Alzheimer's disease. Hormones used to treat depression, growth hormone, thyroid, testosterone, estrogen is an advocate adjunct. It doesn't not good as a standalone pregnant alone and DHEA. So these are with it, I, as I mentioned before, within three and 12 months of anterior pituitary insufficiency due to traumatic brain injury, all hormone deficits within three months is in the purple is at 56% of patients, and within a year later, Left untreated at 36% the gonadotropins at 32% and 21% and ACTH 19 and nine. And as you can see, growth hormone, actually you get an increase in over a year of growth hormone deficiency over a year. There are, you know, laboratory here. So I'm going to leave it at that. I gave you just sort of a brief over overview of the some of the hormones and how they interact with, you know, during a traumatic brain injury, we have, you know, other lectures on psychiatric issues, and we can always fill in on those. So I hope that you know, sort of, maybe even you know, enhances a little bit you know what Michael was saying. And anybody have any questions about anything? And so

Unknown Speaker  1:38:38
there's a chat question for you.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:40
Okay, how much DHEA? So 10 milligrams for females. 25 for males is usually enough for cortisol. You can go up to 25 for females and 100 if you're not getting the results that you want. So that would be the dose there.

Speaker 3  1:38:56
Okay, one of the things that encounter clinically, other clinicians kind of thought that when you get pregnant alone, it will downstream to estrogen testosterone, because when you look at the metabolism, it really does not so for just clinical purposes, yeah, just make sure that you listen to the lecture. It's more for brain functioning, and it is part it does make logical sense, that it does trickle down, but it, unfortunately, it does not increase the other hormones.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:28
No. It does seem to have a little bit of effect on blood sugar, though. So keep an eye on the patient's blood sugars. Okay, because it can raise it a little bit. Okay, not a whole lot, but a little bit. Okay, so that's, that's our TBI overview from Michael. Thank you so much. I have Ross Pelton on next week. I don't have a topic from him yet, so it'll be, it'll be a mystery, surprise. And you know, we've had Ross on before with rapamycin and in the microbiome, so he'll have something good for us. I'm sure anybody have Mike, Robert, Dr Quinn, you got anything from the research group?

Speaker 5  1:40:14
Yeah, can you hear me? Okay, yep, I've been having trouble with the microphone here. Yeah, we, did a lot. We actually had two meetings this past Saturday. The first one was on what we call the molecule that is presented by Dr Dimitri and the actual inventor, having to do with detoxification of heavy metals. They presented a bunch of studies and things like that. And what we're going to do is add that to the apothecary formulary. For those of you who remember what that is, we're developing tribal entities under First Nations Medical Board, for clinics to be able to receive benefits as being a tribal entity. The sanctity of those is put forth by the federal government, and so it's kind of cutting edge type of stuff. We're adding some interesting things to the formulary, and this happens to be one. It's nmbi amerimide. They went through an FDA process, or are still going through that, but that doesn't look so promising. So they came to us, and as long along the lines of what Dr Burgess was talking about for research and things like that, we may be able to do some research on this. They've done a bunch, but we'll do patient outcomes if we can. That was one thing. The second one was presented by Dr David Chang Garis. Many of us know him. He is a big proponent of conjugated linoleic acid for a lot of different treatments, and one thing that he stressed was brain health. And he mentioned something in passing that for TBI, the combination of progesterone and CLA like in an 8% solution can actually help with some of the symptoms of TBI. So there's another treatment right there. He went on and spoke highly of a lot of different things that this, that this did, and where to get this, and how, basically, it was sourced from safflower. And he's looking for, I guess, some of the the tribal entities to grow that for him. This is going worldwide. He's got some amazing studies. So we covered all of that. I'm not sure you know if there was anything else. It was extensive. We ended up meeting for about four hours in total. So Saturdays are becoming quite the monster. As I say, we're covering so many things and doing so many new, cutting edge things. People are invited if they would like to listen in or even present type of things. That's wonderful. They can get a hold of me, or, you know, get a hold of you, or doctor Mario and give my information. But that's, that's kind of what we did. I don't know if Doctor Tana was on here. I didn't notice, but

Speaker 6  1:43:09
if he is, yeah, I'm here. But Doctor Quinn covered all the bases in terms of education. We're still in progress. Nothing really major happened there, but the presentation by Dr sangaris was one of the life line of the whole thing last Saturday.

Speaker 5  1:43:34
Yes, you know. And Dr Tano once again, please, I'm now seeing a lot of articles on this, on how AI is ignoring holistic or alternative or whatever you want to call it, health care. A lot of the things that we agree with and everybody, Dr Tano put out a phenomenal book on decoding AI I mentioned last time decoding the AI bias in healthcare. I just saw something that says Google is now doing the same thing. So whatever powers are out there, they're strongly leading people to the conventional treatments. And I encourage people to take a look at Dr Tanner's his book on this. Is there a video with that? Dr Tano, no,

Speaker 6  1:44:22
no, the video, but the Bucha was with Dr Anthony James, and they saw an Amazon Yes. Okay,

Speaker 5  1:44:29
yeah. And I mentioned last week, I think is I saw it as a number seven best seller. You can pick up a free Kindle version, if that's right, still and that, that is a great way. Now, what Dr Tano has done with this is it's extensive, but if there's certain chapters or things that you're interested in, you can go to that, click on that, and you can read the information on that. So this is, it's a fantastic reference. And again, now I'm seeing a lot of people complaining about AI bias in this arena. And so again, I encourage people to explore that. Those of us who use AI for various things need to be aware of that. And

Speaker 6  1:45:12
by the way, in September, I think we scheduled Dr Anthony is scheduled to speak about this at Dr Clearfield meeting on in September. I don't know who is speaking. Dr James, Anthony James.

Speaker 5  1:45:27
Oh, Anthony James, that's right, yeah, that's right, yeah. He interesting guy. Interesting, interesting guy. There's a couple of other people who have maybe expressed some interest in in participating Dr shangeras might be one as well. So we'll see. And then maybe Dr Dimitri

Bill Clearfield  1:45:47
get me their contacts, and we're happy to have him.

Speaker 5  1:45:53
Okay, so we're progressing at light speed again. Thanks to Dr Burgess for setting this up and and as a subgroup, we're just, we're just going and going and going. So I'm really proud of everybody's efforts.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:07
We're hoping we're going to get. Dr wild on right. Dr Nario,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:11
I'm working on it. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:15
All right, okay, all right. Anybody else have any comments or questions or

Speaker 3  1:46:20
Dr, Quinn, I'm just curious, how do you navigate towards that bias that there is you can find integrative material, I guess you do AI, how do you navigate? I mean, just, yeah, I'm just curious. Is that a curious question?

Speaker 5  1:46:35
Uh, Doctor Tano, do you have a comment on that?

Speaker 6  1:46:39
Yeah, so the because the traditional medicine, natural medicines, are not well covered in the literature, or at least the conventional medicine takeover and not covering that at length. And whatever they do, they don't references that don't do anything. So it appears that the all the things that have been written for 1000s of years at Uber traditional Chinese medicine, all of these, the AI training, does not include that. And so if the AI training does not include that, it's like it doesn't exist. So if you were to look for something deep in AI about Ayurveda, or any of the traditional medicine, it would not show you. So it's like the groups are left behind millions of billions of people are left behind, just catering to a small minority that does with allopathic medicine, that's basically that

Speaker 5  1:47:46
Okay, and what to do about that? Dr Nario, I'm, I'm, I kind of put in terms, terms that I want to use. You know, whether it be holistic, natural, indigenous things like that. If I'm looking for anything, I want to include that term.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:07
So you just have to be specific. Basically, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:48:10
and I think we've all, we're all finding that you can be pretty specific with some of this AI stuff and get some amazing, amazing things. And again, I caution people to watch out for the references, because sometimes they're not accurate, gotcha.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:26
So I just, I just went on chat GBT, and I asked it if it was trained on Ayurvedic medicine and all I'm getting back as a a dot get it, not getting any.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:37
Yeah, that's right, but that's, that's a billions of people left behind. So

Speaker 5  1:48:47
So again, I encourage people to to check out. I mean, this is what all of us here on these groups understand, that there are treatment modalities that aren't, quote, unquote mainstream. So I encourage people to check out this, this book, and see what it's all about and follow what's happening. I don't know what can be done about Google and all of this kind of stuff, leaving all of this out. I don't I have no clue.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:14
Okay, okay. Well, you got your briefing ordered. Wait, hey, Bill.

Speaker 7  1:49:21
Bill Adam crouch, here, could you send me or email me the contact information that you mentioned you had last week for the gentleman about rapamycin?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:30
Yeah, he's going to be on next week as a matter of fact, yeah, I'll send it to you. All right. Thank you. Okay, we'll do

Bill Clearfield  1:49:42
Okay. Anybody else?

Unknown Speaker  1:49:49
Okay, all

Bill Clearfield  1:49:50
right, then we'll have the video up as soon as I get it done, and we'll see you next Same time, same station, 5pm next Tuesday, we have Ross Pelton on, and I don't know what the topic is, so we'll we'll find out together. And Dr Collins, thank you for being with us and participating, and we look forward to hearing from you.

Speaker 4  1:50:16
I really appreciate all of you. Thank you so much.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:19
Bring a couple of friends along too. So

Unknown Speaker  1:50:22
I got a couple

Bill Clearfield  1:50:25
awesome bring a couple of friends along. We sort of expand our

Speaker 5  1:50:30
absolutely real fast. Oh, I'm so sorry. To Dr Collins, you asked about how we can access the formulary at the tribal site. The formulary is not complete. It's a definite work in progress. It's taking time to put everything together. But once it is, I will let people know here how to get

Speaker 4  1:50:48
it. Yes, and I'd love to connect with you about that on hippotic aluminaris and we'll talk about that later. So thank you so much. Okay, thank you, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:55
All right, thank you everybody. Thank you. And thank you all for supporting us. We'll see you again next. week.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai