Speaker 1  00:20
Hey, Dr. Clearfield.

Bill Clearfield  00:21
Hey, Jeremy. How are you?

Speaker 1  00:23
I'm doing great. How are you doing?

Bill Clearfield  00:24
Okay, good to see you.

Speaker 1  00:26
Yeah, man. Likewise.

Bill Clearfield  00:28
Actually, I've never seen you before. I've only texted you, right?

Speaker 1  00:34
I don't know. I thought we did something before. Oh, yeah, I met you at a 4m in Las Vegas.

Bill Clearfield  00:38
Oh, that's right. Yeah, so this, this is you, huh? This, this topic,

Speaker 1  00:46
yeah, this is me, this is my skin condition. I do the blog, the YouTube, the podcast, and I did start a nonprofit here in South Carolina.

Bill Clearfield  00:56
Okay, okay. Well, we're always up to learning something new,

Speaker 1  01:02
great.

Bill Clearfield  01:03
I'm sure Dr. Tano knows all about it, though. He knows everything,

Speaker 1  01:07
yeah, especially with the infections.

Bill Clearfield  01:10
So, in fact, if you're there, Dr. Tano just wanted to ask you about that cream that we put together.

Benoit Tano  01:21
Hello,

Bill Clearfield  01:22
hi, Dr. Tano,

Benoit Tano  01:23
hi.

Bill Clearfield  01:24
That cream that for Joel, is it just Bactriban? And then Lamasille separate, yeah,

Benoit Tano  01:33
that's correct. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  01:34
it's not a compound, then, right?

Benoit Tano  01:37
It's a mixed together, yeah, not compounded.

Bill Clearfield  01:40
Okay, all right. That's what I was getting confused over. So, okay, so I, I sent him out to get it. So,

Benoit Tano  01:46
okay, good. So, we see what happens sometimes when it starts working, it makes a little bit burning. Then I tell the patients to continue using

Bill Clearfield  01:57
it. Okay, all right. Well, we'll see. So, all right. Thank you so much for your help.

Benoit Tano  02:03
Sure.

Bill Clearfield  02:06
Okay, so we'll just hang out, Jeremy. Until..

Benoit Tano  02:12
Hi, Jeremy. How are you doing?

Speaker 1  02:14
Hey, Dr. Tanno, I'm doing really good.

Benoit Tano  02:16
Yeah, we haven't seen you in

Speaker 2  02:18
a while.

Speaker 1  02:19
Yeah, it's been a few weeks at this point we had a chance to sit down with Bob, but just had his 90th birthday party a couple weeks ago. Last week,

Benoit Tano  02:27
wow,

Speaker 2  02:29
yeah,

Speaker 1  02:31
so it was, it was a good time, yeah, for sure. How are you doing?

Benoit Tano  02:35
Doing well,

Bill Clearfield  02:39
excellent. All right, how's your app going, Dr. Tano?

Benoit Tano  02:44
Which one,

Bill Clearfield  02:46
the app that you have?

Benoit Tano  02:47
Oh, I'm done already. So, if you're ready to try it, it's ready to go.

Bill Clearfield  02:53
No, I can try it, but then I'll want to buy it, and I can't. I can't justify $500 a month at this point. No, it's

Benoit Tano  03:00
not 500 we remember we brought it down, so for everybody I'm doing 99 to begin with, and then we see if people want to write books and stuff, they can always subscribe to the other parts of

Speaker 2  03:13
it.

Bill Clearfield  03:13
Yeah, okay, I'll take a look at it again. I'm leaving the wrong one day, if

Benoit Tano  03:18
that's nice.

Bill Clearfield  03:19
I'm actually speaking,

Benoit Tano  03:21
that's good.

Bill Clearfield  03:23
So we're like invading their space. You should have seen what they did with my, my slideshow, and oh my god, they sent it every slide. There was something wrong with it, every, every single

Benoit Tano  03:34
one. Yeah, I think I've been very picky. I've never been to one of the conferences.

Bill Clearfield  03:38
I've never been the one of theirs, either. I've done a couple of online ones, and you know, they shut them off after a year, so, which I think isn't, you know, crooked. I mean, they charge enough for it, you should just leave

Benoit Tano  03:53
it, right?

Bill Clearfield  03:54
So, but so we'll see how it, we'll see how it goes. The guy that that I'd been was was work, who called me and said, "Hey, we want you to come speak and whatnot. He'd only been with him a month, and they fired him a couple weeks. I don't know exactly how that's going to go.

Benoit Tano  04:16
That's interesting.

Bill Clearfield  04:17
I thought they were going to call me and say, "Yeah, you know what, never mind.

Benoit Tano  04:22
So you go there, you have no parentage, you have no one who is to who?

Bill Clearfield  04:26
No, I've no, you know, I really, I mean, I'm sure out there'll be few people there I know, but so I'm talking, I after they fired the guy that I was dealing with the whole time, they, the guy that I'm talking to now is like he was the one who was, who did the lectures on thyroid and whatnot, and everything I had was, was the lettering wasn't right, the spacing wasn't right, and it was like, you know, I don't make enough money for paying me enough for this, you know, we've only done 9000 talks, I know how to make slides, leave. me alone.

Benoit Tano  05:04
Yep,

Bill Clearfield  05:09
so I looked at your slides, Jeremy. Yours wouldn't. The past, either.. no,

Speaker 1  05:16
I'm gonna blame AI on that one.

Benoit Tano  05:20
So, Jeremy, who is presenting today?

Bill Clearfield  05:22
Jeremy,

Benoit Tano  05:23
Jeremy presented today. I didn't know you were an expert on my girl.

Speaker 1  05:31
I'm a patient advocate. I founded a nonprofit in South Carolina. I've interviewed a lot of experts on Morgellons, including Dr. Ginger Safely, twice, Mary Ann Middleveen. I think I interviewed her three times. Dr. Stephen Feldman, who's the nation's leading psoriasis expert, I interviewed him twice. And yeah, I've done a lot of research on the emerging science regarding my skin condition.

Benoit Tano  06:01
Yeah, I have a patient in Minneapolis who actually has all these lesions on her legs, and at one point I was thinking of Magellan. I sent her everywhere, dermatologist to do biopsies. Everything that I did didn't really pan out, so I don't know, like she could still have it, but maybe today you can enlighten me a little bit about that.

Speaker 1  06:27
We're going to look at the particular pathogen involved and why it has an ability to both evade the immune response as well as persist beyond antibiotic intervention.

Benoit Tano  06:40
Yeah, because I mean, this lady, I did everything, everything that I could think of, but nothing worked.

Speaker 1  06:53
One thing that doesn't help is when people have to endure a lot of stress outside of their personal, what they're going through, like their family is causing them issues, or work something like that, that definitely makes it a lot harder for people to get on that journey back. I appreciate your insight. I hopefully, yeah, we do offer some kind of insight today.

Benoit Tano  07:18
Yeah, I'm interested. I want to see, I want to hear what you have to say, because this is - this is one of the esoteric conditions people don't know much about, and it's been on, been, I mean, it's been in the medical literature for quite a while, long time, but still people are not aware of it. Is it fiber? Is it alien? Is it what is pharma? We have no idea.

Speaker 1  07:49
Well, we do. We do know what the fibers are today, so we're going to talk about that.

Benoit Tano  07:53
Okay,

Speaker 2  07:53
cool.

Speaker 1  07:53
But you're right, everybody has a different opinion about what Morgallons is, and that's one of the problems.

Speaker 2  08:00
Yep. Hmm. excellent

Speaker 1  08:04
insight.

Speaker 2  08:10
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  08:14
so just I unfortunately have to cut out around 530 Dr. Narrio and Dr. Peterson will be taking over, leading the group. I'll be on Zoom if you need me, but I have an appointment that was got to get ready for next, for actually tomorrow, tomorrow's thing. So we had a little setback, so I'll be on, but Dr. Dr. Nario will be the sort of the leader of the pack here.

Speaker 1  08:51
Perfect.

Speaker 3  08:52
You need, we need a haircut, right?

Bill Clearfield  08:54
Hey, I have to look good, right? You know,

Speaker 3  08:58
you need to look good in front of the firing squad,

Bill Clearfield  09:02
yeah, exactly. So, so I have this, you know, little story. My mother had stage four lung cancer, and she was in the hospice, and you know, was near the end, and they had her snowed out, and then they stopped paying attention to her, and she woke up, and I can still see her, she looked right at me. The last thing she ever said that she said was, she looked right at me, said, "How's my hair? So, so that was that sort of, you know, what I'm kind of stuck that that's just the way it is. So, yes, I went there.

Speaker 4  09:38
Fantastic,

Bill Clearfield  09:39
I went there at 730 in the morning this morning, and the guy forgot all about me, even though you know they send out a text message two days ahead of time, you know, make sure you're there to be there on time, so yeah, I gotta look good for ifm for you guys, you know, and anybody been been to one of those, Carol, have you been to those,

Speaker 5  10:02
I Yes, I have.

Bill Clearfield  10:05
So, I've done a few of their online ones, and quite frankly, I think Lindsay and the one you did on hormones was way better than anything there, but I guess, yeah, shouldn't say that out loud.

Speaker 5  10:20
I was, I was very disappointed with them in the COVID time. They were telling people to get vaccinated before they come to their programs.

Bill Clearfield  10:33
Okay, I guess that that cut down on their census. Then,

Speaker 5  10:39
yeah, IHS was the same.

Bill Clearfield  10:44
I was like, when I first moved to Reno on Friday nights, I used to go to the.. there was a seat at the senior center here. They would have a ballroom dance, and if somebody didn't show up for two or three weeks, you never saw them again. Sort of the same thing with COVID, I guess. The COVID vaccine

Speaker 5  11:02
as a new study out of Japan showing any nobody who is unvaccinated got sick. Only vaccinated people got sick.

Bill Clearfield  11:13
Now go back to your, your TV commercials from way back from back then, right? If you,

Speaker 5  11:20
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  11:22
right, that's that can't be true, right? The politicians told us that wasn't true.

Speaker 5  11:28
Yeah, that's right,

Bill Clearfield  11:30
right. And they're never right. Dr. Quinn,

Speaker 5  11:34
did you see they indicted Bill Gates in the Netherlands?

Bill Clearfield  11:38
I don't know. I don't pay attention to that guy

Speaker 5  11:40
on this very thing, and

Bill Clearfield  11:45
I just look around to see whether I've been indicted or not for another day.

Speaker 5  11:53
Yeah, that's important.

Bill Clearfield  11:58
Okay. Well, Dr. Narrio, why don't you give us your tip of the week,

Speaker 3  12:04
all right? All right, so today we're going to discuss about the famous and elusive carnivore diet. So, this is not for a social media perspective, but from an evidence and metabolic medicine perspective, because despite the polar polarization of this, the clinical reality is many patients report dramatic improvements in obesity, insulin resistance, autoimmune symptoms, IBS, and satiety. The question is, what does the data actually show? The strongest data supporting carnivore type approaches are indirect coming from low carbohydrate diets, ketogenic and elimination diet literature. Mechanistically, we see lower insulin signaling, reduced glycemic variability, appetite suppression, and improved metabolic flexibility. One of the most discussed data sets is the 2021 Hardware Carnivore Survey survey. Right, I have to underline that. Published in Current Developments in Nutrition, this evaluated over 2000 self-identified carnivore dieters and reported substantial perceived improvements, again perceived weight, diabetes, GI symptoms, mood, and inflammatory conditions. Participants also reported high satiety, reduced cravings, improved triglycerides, HDL ratios, and favorable A 1c trends. So, again, that study is a survey, and it's from even though it's from Harvard, this is where all of our social media, I guess, celebrities are getting their information from and then here's the here's the turning point where carnivore becomes particularly interesting clinically is elimination physiology by removing ultra processed foods, refined carbohydrates, seed oils, and potentially immunogenic plant compounds. So some patients experience major symptom improvement, and then a 2024 case series by Norwich et al reported significant improvement in IBD scores in patients with Crohn's and also ulcerative colitis. So, using a carnivore slash ketogenic approach, so that's different, right? Carnivore is more intense than ketogenic, but this one is combined. So, the proposed mechanisms include ketosis-mediated anti-inflammatory effects, reduced colonic antigen exposure, and elimination of potential plant triggers. So, these are the lectins that we always hear, and importantly, ongoing randomized control trials are now being developed because of this specific case study case series. So, we also see anecdotally in early clinical reports of symptom improvements in rheumatological diseases, autoimmune overlap syndromes (IBS) and inflammatory disorders. Short-term studies and clinical observations have shown weight loss, reduced CRP, improved satiety, and improved glycemic stability. Again, most of this remains preliminary and not definitive, but critically, evidence-based remains observational, self-reported, and highly vulnerable to selection bias. We still lack long-term cardiovascular outcome data, microbiome durability data, and even longevity data, and LDL elevations in some patients remain a major unresolved issue. So many current interpretations is this: the carnivore diet may function less as a universal longevity diet and more as a powerful metabolic and elimination tool in selected patients. The clinical signal is real enough to study seriously, but the evidence is still catching up with enthusiasm. So that's our leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  15:42
No, thank

Speaker 2  15:42
you.

Bill Clearfield  15:44
And I don't know, I, you know, we've had lots of patients that go on the carnivore diet and they lose 20, 3040, pounds, and they feel great, and they have energy, and then we get their chemistries and their total cholesterol is 512 and the LDL is 320 but, but it's carnivore diet, so it's okay. I mean, that's that's with what they said.

Speaker 3  16:07
Well, the carnivore diet is different from keto diet, right? So, carnivore is 100% animal, so keto, you can use plants such as your avocado oil, for example, your nuts. So, read, but you're right, that's the bigger flaw of this type of diet, that it can actually lead to this conundrum of cardiovascular disease, but because of the effects that it gives to you, the immediate effects, basically the gratification that it gives to you, now it kind of, they don't see the future of what a cardiovascular accident that might happen to this specific diet, so again, be careful, because I brought this up because the university actually has been now approaching social media trends, and these are the ones where need, where we need to guide our patients in terms of what really is the literature and studies out there about this.

Speaker 2  16:59
Well,

Bill Clearfield  17:00
just need to ask Jay Campbell, he'll tell

Speaker 2  17:03
us, right,

Speaker 4  17:04
Dr. Nariel. One thing that always strikes me is that before these studies, I don't see anybody doing a complete history on what the people have been eating before they changed into this diet, right? I've always maintained that it's, it's at least 50% of what you're not eating, as opposed to what you're now eating on this diet, that they all of these blood levels are wacky due to the processed foods and all of that, and then suddenly they cut that out and come up with an, you name it, diet, and people do better. Okay, I really think it's what they're not eating

Speaker 3  17:39
right, and as I mentioned a while ago, this is also a good type of elimination diet, because as you just all out 100% meat, now you're removing ultra-processed food, refined carbohydrates, seed oils, and even plant compounds that are inflammatory. So it's basically, there's so many benefits to it, other than muscle. You will hear about a lot about this in gym talk that they like meats because of the muscle protein that it brings, but if you look at it, there's so many benefits to it, and again people don't see that.

Bill Clearfield  18:10
Okay, just okay. So, before we introduce our speaker, I just want to give you one little update. We did a GI map on our friend Paisley, remembered a 10 year old from a couple of weeks ago, H pylori, she has pretty severe in the in the high octane group. So we'll

Speaker 2  18:35
be good.

Speaker 3  18:35
Question, are you going to start antibiotic therapy on this lady, or are you going to be doing the natural approach,

Bill Clearfield  18:42
well, what we usually do is offer both. Remember, this lady's 10 years old too. So, oh

Speaker 3  18:49
yeah, sure. Hey, you surprised they find themselves ladies at an early age.

Bill Clearfield  18:56
When we wrote it, when we wrote the email, we addressed her as Lady P, remember

Speaker 3  19:02
that's where I got it.

Bill Clearfield  19:05
Then, so usually what I do is I offer both, and invariably the patients who come here choose the herbal approach, and I tell them, you know, it's going to, that's going to take, you know, six months minimum, as opposed to two, you know, two weeks at least, you know, and they almost always tell me that they want to use the herbal approach, and then two weeks later they call me and say, okay, let's do the antibiotics. I mean, that's that's like almost, almost 100% I don't know what your experience is with this, that

Speaker 3  19:37
they, yeah, say, well, I have a lot of people who are hardcore, and they stick with the herbs, but again, there's a, there's a high failure rate to that. I retest them, and it's still there. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  19:47
we actually do pretty well if they do the antibiotics, and then you know, if there's any residual due to herbal remedy, we've done pretty well doing

Speaker 3  19:54
it. Well, my theory behind that is because I want to eliminate that H. pylori, especially for the adults, because it actually predisposes them to stomach cancer? If that gets prolonged and stays there and does damage, pay so much for your herbals, right? Just get rid of them,

Bill Clearfield  20:10
okay? And with that, tonight we're honored to have Jeremy Murphy with us. Jeremy and I have worked together for a while. We, this are our little podcast here has been featured in what is that healthy, what is that magazine? I always forget the name of

Speaker 6  20:31
it, Healthy Beginnings,

Bill Clearfield  20:33
not Healthy Beginnings, it's it's the a M

Speaker 6  20:38
got me there.

Bill Clearfield  20:39
I don't know if we're, I don't know if we're still on there, Jeremy, but the

Speaker 6  20:44
World Health,

Speaker 2  20:45
so

Bill Clearfield  20:45
that was

Speaker 2  20:47
it. It's

Speaker 1  20:47
the forum at World health.net I put you guys on there every single week. I look forward to see who's going to be speaking that week. It's always a blast.

Bill Clearfield  20:55
Yeah, I think I don't know that I've ever had anybody tell me that they came to listen from that, but keep doing it, keep going. Somebody will be side you.

Speaker 1  21:06
You bet. You bet.

Bill Clearfield  21:07
Okay, so Jeremy is the host of Morgellons Discussion Podcast and administrator of the Morgellons Lyme Awareness Facebook group. He tonight he's going to examine the overlap between Lyme disease, Morgellons disease, and syphilis, focusing on spirochetal connections, diagnostic failure, serologic cross reactivity, any evidence that Morgellons represents a real filamentous Boreal dermatitis rather than a primary psychiatric disorder. Wow, that was pretty good. How did I get that right?

Speaker 1  21:40
Yeah, 100%

Bill Clearfield  21:42
My mother used to like to hear me say those big words, you know. Felt she got her money's worth. So

Speaker 1  21:47
it's definitely impressive. You got me on that one, Dr. Clearfield.

Bill Clearfield  21:52
Presentation includes patient microscopy visuals, lesion comparisons, before and after recovery images, and key peer-reviewed references. And Jeremy, I'm going to let you take over from here on in.

Speaker 1  22:05
Thank you. Thank you. First of all, I want to thank everybody who knows me personally for showing up, who I've interacted with in the group for showing up. And second, I want to thank Shell Stein for presenting this opportunity between Dr. Clearfield's group and myself to present on this topic. Shell is particularly keen on listening to discussion about this, and he genuinely seems interested, like he learned something every new so that's always been a good time. Dr Clearfield, thank you for hosting this discussion today about my rare skin condition. With that, I'm going to go over to the slides, okay. So today the title of my discussion is called Lyme Morgellons and syphilis, why test failed, diagnosis overlap, and what Morgellons really is, and that real is the key operative there, because as we were discussing before the start of the show, everybody has a different idea about what Morgellons is, and a lot of people have very specific ideas about how they believe it should be addressed. What we're going to look at today is what evidence has been able to demonstrate, and when I say evidence, I mean something that's gone through the peer review process, published in a prestigious medical or scientific journal, and that will make that evidence objective, so this is a before and after picture of me. This picture of me on the before was about 2014 I was training for the local 5k at that point. I was running 3.1 miles every other day, but I was still having terrible bouts of chronic fatigue. These sores that you see on my skin, keep those in mind as characteristic non magnified, and every time I saw a doctor under this condition, up until 2012 I always got a diagnosis, or I always got a prescription of antibiotics and steroids, two weeks of each at the same time. So, what happened was, about 2010 I experienced a bullseye rash that didn't make a lot of sense until this stuff started going on, and my sister-in-law gave me a microscope. I took one of my scabs and looked at it under the microscope, and it just horrified me. It looked like a nightmare, and since I wasn't really smart at the time, not very scientific savvy, I was susceptible to a lot of misinformation, so it was easy to get me on a train of belief, and at that point, when I was undergoing the horrible skin lesions like this, I wasn't able to rationalize between what I was hearing and what evidence had been able to demonstrate at that point, so I got in touch with the Charles Holman Foundation, or they got in touch with me. They sent me copies of their conference DVDs, and through those I learned about Dr. Ginger Savely, I learned about Mary Ann Middle Bean. I learned about the science that associates Morgellons with Lyme disease, and I found my doctor. I see Dr. Eboni Cornish. She started treating me on suspicion because I was very sick at that point. I was hypothermic, my body temperature was consistently in the lower 90 sevens, and I was having the night sweats, the terrible anxiety, the what I call the nightly midlife crisis. It was a disaster scenario, but eventually she did get me a positive serologic reaction on a tick-borne relapsing fever, iGenix Western blood, and when that happened, that triggered full insurance coverage of my treatments and any lab work that she ordered. For those curious, my doctor's visits run about $250 a visit, that's for a half hour. I see her twice annually. The picture on the right is after several years of combination antibiotic therapy. I also take an antiviral medication. I also have a positive result for Epstein Barr virus, as well as antifungal agents, on and off again, of course. My doctor went to Brown. She accomplished a residency at Georgetown, and whenever I see her, she's wearing a white coat. So the first thing a lot of people want to say about a doctor, especially mine, who prescribes antibiotics, and the situation where several years of antibiotics of just straight doxycycline or Rosafin or Ceftriaxone didn't work. She's able to utilize a combination of agents to get me to a point on the right where I don't look like I have sores all over my face. It's easy for them to say that, you know, she's a quack or she's mispracticing, but the fact of the matter is the state of Virginia does certify her to practice medicine, and she practices with the utmost respect and responsibility. So, what actually is Morgellons? There have been a series of scientific papers, which have looked at the skin condition objectively, and first and foremost, Morganlleus disease is a dermatological condition characterized by multicolored filaments embedded within or projecting from the skin. It's predominantly associated with spirochetal infection caused by members of genome Borrelia, as well as infection with other tick-borne and non-tick-borne pathogens, including including Helicobacter pylori and Treponema denticola. One paper found that Borrelia and Helicobacter pylori colocalize in biofilms, and there's some really stellar imaging of those biofilms in those papers. I'll leave the sources there after my presentation. As I was saying, it was in 2012 where I went to an emergency room to get another round of antibiotics, and another round of steroids. I thought, so I could get my skin, you know, somewhat normalized for a little while. Anyways, and they sent in the dermatologist, and he said, "Now, mr. Murphree, you know you're doing this to yourself, and I knew I was not doing this to myself, it was just happening, and so I got up, and I walked out, and that was the end of that. But patients with Morgellons, oftentimes they're not afforded the possibility that they may have an infection when they present, like I was, with the sores all over my skin. A lot of times the doctor is going to diagnose them from across the room, and when I say diagnose, I mean, like they say in Canada, certify under the Mental Health Act, and it's wrong. It's wrong for a doctor to diagnose a patient without giving them a physical examination to understand if their sores are self-inflicted or if they're ulcerative from a potential infection, but that's what happened since 2012 and we're going to take a closer look at the CDC Pearson study a little bit later on. So, our learning objectives for today: first and foremost, we're going to understand the relationship between Lyme, Morgellons, and Syphilis. Two are spirochetel infections. One is a dermopathy associated with spirochetes, and why two of them have earned the title Great Imitator. Second objective for this evening is we're going to understand why so many people get diagnosed with Lyme disease specifically, we're going to see how symptom overlap and serologic cross reactivity push patients toward and sometimes past a Lyme diagnosis. Finally, today we're going to learn what Morgellons really is. We're going to walk through the peer-reviewed evidence. I'm going to show that Morgellons is a skin condition, and that's associated with spirocheteal infection. That's what the evidence has been able to demonstrate. It's been objectively verified and validated, I So, starting from the left here, we have Borrelia. This is your classic Lyme disease. In my case, it's tick-borne relapsing fever. A lot of people get TBRF mixed up with Rocky Mounted Spotted Fever. Rocky Mounted Spotted Fever is a Rickettsia organism. It's not a Borrelia organism, and this is the particular infection that has been scientifically associated with developing Morgellons. It's likely that if a patient has this infection and Morgellons, or if they have Morgellons, that they're going to have some kind of spirochete infection. Treponema denticola denticola has also been observed so far. Syphilis has not been observed in any Morgellons patients in the literature. Morgellons itself is a skin condition, so there's a lot of conditions someone could develop when they're exposed to Lyme disease. Morgellons itself is not a Spirochetal infection, like Lyme disease or syphilis, but it's associated with one in the peer-reviewed literature, and that is Borrelia, of course. That's been identified in lesion tissue. Now, finally, we're going to look at Treponema pallidum, that is syphilis. It is a spirochete la infection, like Lyme disease, it's the original great imitator, and it's a Multistage disease known for symptom variability and diagnostic confusion. We're going to take a look at why it's so complicated to diagnose syphilis a little bit later as well, so so a growing body of peer-reviewed research describes the Morgellons as a skin condition, filaments under, embedded in, or projecting from the skin, and that's the important part, the filaments under the scientific definition, the are in or around skin, they're not on top of it, they're not on the floor, like they just fell off of it, they are under embedded in or projecting from the skin, they always have something to do with being coming from the skin, lesions, itching, pruritus, and ulceration, it is a dermopathy. This dermapathy, particularly, is associated with SPIROCHETAL infection. Borrelia organisms have been identified in lesion tissue across multiple peer-reviewed studies from 2013 to 2020 These are some of the papers that were able to identify Borrelia spirochetes in patient skin specimens. You'll see a lot of these are the same altered. This has been one of the major criticisms, is that this evidence has not been replicated outside of this group. However, if you look at the journals these articles are published in, you'll see that these are in fact prestigious, and they're reputable medical and scientific journals. Each one of these describes MORGELLONS as a dermapathy, a dermopathy, a dermopathy, dermopathy. skin condition, and dermopathy. It's very important when I'm talking with people, especially patients, that they understand a volume of evidence characterizes MORGELLONS as a skin condition and not as an infection itself. It's easy, especially when there's no general consensus for people to get confused about that, a lot of people will say that the 2012 CDC study included 115 MORGELLONS patients. It was the largest study ever, and that all the fibers they found were cotton. The problem with that is that even though the abstract concludes cellulose likely of cotton origin, the actual data says of 23 specimens analyzed, 83% were protein, and protein is not cotton, and 50% is anyways. So, when we're looking at this, there's a conflict inside the 2012 CDC Morgallons paper. They're saying, in the abstract, that most of the fibers were cotton, but the data says 83% were protein, only 43% were cellulose, so the headline doesn't match the findings. In fact, only 12 patients submitted specimens for biopsy, so out of 115 case patients that were identified, fiber material analysis was only performed on just 12 of them, and that's about 10% of the cohort. The molecular conclusions rest on a very tiny subset. Finally, syphilis was never tested. Serology included Borrelia, toxocara, and strongyloides, but no RPR, no VDRL, and no FTA, ABS, direct testing, no treponemal testing of any kind, despite lesions resembling secondary syphilis. So, this right here is a MORGELLONS fiber, that's two of them, actually. This is from the paper Characterization and Evolution of Morgellons: Lessons from Syphilis. And what this paper shows at 200 401,000 times are these cells organizing together. These are fibroblasts, maybe keratinocytes in there, and they are forming these structural fibers that characterize the MORGELLONS condition. The reason they're stained this color is because they are reacting to a broad spirochete antibody stain, so they wouldn't be lit up like that if there wasn't some kind of spirochete DNA floating around in there. It's very important for people to document evidence, because with MORGELLONS that evidence is hard to challenge. I'm going to go ahead and switch over and share a page we developed called How to Photograph Morgellons. I'm Okay, and the reason why I made this page is because so many people are confused about what MORGELLONS actually is, because there's a lack of consensus. A lot of people will take fibers out of their environment. A lot of times, I see cat hair, I see stuff that looks like dust bunnies from under the couch. This right here is a picture of my thigh, as the thighs on my, I'm sorry, the thighs, the hair on my thigh is very thin, particularly fine. So this is a regular thigh hair up front, and then in the back there, in that lesion, is coming out the MORGELLONS filaments, or what someone described as characteristic for MORGELLONS filaments, they are the literature describes them as much finer than a human hair, and this is what I used to get that close up of that picture, just a little macro lens that I clipped onto my phone. Then what I did was, I took a microscope, and I stuck it inside the sore to see if those fibers were or were not coming from inside that sore, if they were just resting on top of it. This right here is probably the most compelling image, and I get a lot of phone calls on it, let me make sure you guys can see that I sorry, team, got a little technical difficulties. This right here is this is what people give me phone calls about when they're going through the article, how to photograph Morgellons, and they get to this picture. This is where they stop. They try to find my phone number, email address, and they want to talk with me. Some patients have been accused of injecting these fibers into their skin. I've got an interview with a retired pediatrician who went through that himself on my YouTube channel, I'll share that in the, in the show notes, so it's very important to document what you're going through, to have your patients document what they're going through, and to ensure that what they're going through are fibers that are coming from the skin. We've seen how the fibers form by cellular components, and then how they look after they're fully formed, and they can be photographed with very inexpensive digital microscopes. One question I get is, well, didn't MORGELLONS start in Texas, California, and Florida, and then it spread outward? I always maintain that that's exactly how broadband internet was rolled out, and so people had an opportunity to talk more, to meet up, to share their findings. We started seeing the advent of handheld USB microscopes around that time that were easily affordable. You could order them right online, so I think it's more likely that people were able to start sharing around that time in those clusters, then it's a new kind of affliction that spread out, and the reason is because you cannot see MORGELLONS fibers are attached inside the skin without a microscope, if you saw that fiber on my thigh, you might think, well, that's just resting on top of there from a blanket or something. The research tells us that MORGELLONS resembles secondary syphilis in all cases reported by middelveen. They state that the characteristic skin lesions resemble those of secondary syphilis. We're talking about Maculopapular eruptions, ulcerative lesions. The textbooks tell us that syphilis is not associated with itching. This 1980 study, however, that looked at 105 patients, found that 42% of them did in fact experience intense pruritus, biting, and stinging sensations. Syphilis is an infection that can attack the nervous system. Spirochete positive skin findings and symptom variability that confuses diagnosis. Again, syphilis and Lyme disease are considered imitator class infections, because they can attack a myriad of, not just lost the word, guys, like your brain, they can attack the brain and make you forget words, systems inside your body, that's why they're considered imitator class infections, because you may come in with a bum knee, and the doctor might not necessarily think that you have an infection, and they may just think that it's old age. This is Dr. Ginger Savely. When nobody else wanted to talk about Morgellons, they were all diagnosing them with delusional disorders. She stood up and in one case she was the medical board held her responsible for treating these patients, eventually that all worked out, but it's through her work that we have a good idea of what MORGELLONS looks like, and how to treat it. If you're seeing a patient going through Morgellons, they can. You can email her at Lyme Doc. I'm sorry, Lyme DC, L Y M E D c@gmail.com and she can help with treatment recommendations. My doctor works directly with Dr. Savely, and together they collaborate to see what's working for patients and what's not. I'm going to share her website right now, so we can take a look at some other examples of MORGELLONS patients' skin specimens. Dr. Savely wrote a book, Morgellons: The Legitimization of a Disease. And what I'm getting ready to share here are pictures from that book. I highly recommend people pick up this book. It's very insightful. I gave it to a friend to help them kind of understand what MORGELLONS

Speaker 2  45:42
is. I

Speaker 1  45:42
typical presentation. Let me blow that up a little bit, guys. Not today. So, these are those Maculopapular lesions on the legs here, zoomed in a little bit. We see the fibers starting to emerge from the skin, they don't look like natural hairs, they look more like wires, they may look like they could be from cotton or from yarn. This patient has the lesions on the top of their head. These are embedded inside a scab and highly magnified, but this is characteristic MORGELLONS basically looks the same for person to person to person, and this is what we're looking for. This right here is what makes MORGELLONS so painful. This is the underneath of a scab, and something is going on with the DNA in the skin to where what you're looking at here are called Follicular casts. The hair follicle has filled up with this junk collagen, and a lot of times I don't know if you can see in this one or not, at the end of these Follicular casts, the hair that would normally come out and away from the dermis is starting to grow out and down in towards it, and that causes an intense sting pain. It also creates pressure where these things are ballooning up inside the Follicular cast, and this is Implemente, Pipelepe, Imapelep, Telege, Plenot, Cent. Here's some emores, follicle, esc, ebonoleen, Pestle, and people are mortified when they see these coming out of the skin, you know, when, when you wish somebody and they witness this firsthand, a lot of times they just walk out of the room and they never come back, this is a bit much for people to to deal with, okay, I'm going to leave the link, so you guys can keep looking at this, but it does get pretty, pretty intense from there, so we'll go ahead and move forward, I'm so why do so many people get diagnosed with Lyme disease nowadays? We do know that there is a huge rash of ticks and tick bites, that's true, but there may be some other reasons that we're going to take a look at. First of all, there's a lot of symptom overlap, fatigue, arthralgia, neurologic symptoms, rashes, cardiovascular complaints, Lyme syphilis, and MORGELLONS share much of the same clinical presentation pattern matching alone won't be able to distinguish them. Now, here's something that a lot of people just aren't aware of, and really should be. There's a Serologic cross reactivity between Lyme disease and syphilis. Syphilis specifically will cause across a false positive on Lyme disease tests, but the reverse is not true. This was examined, and it was determined that Lyme disease does not trigger false positive reactions on syphilis tests, that's kind of a hard pill for some people to swallow, but that's just what the evidence has been able to demonstrate to this point. So, yeah, there's a lot of Lyme disease out there, but there's also a lot of cross reaction that's not being scrutinized once somebody gets a reaction on a Lyme disease test, and yeah, that that cross reactivity also extends to the Western blot. Then you know it's that's their diagnosis, and then that's what they, they run with, especially if a syphilis test is negative. Syphilis tests are not perfect, and we're going to take a look at some of the reasons why the RPR and the VDRL rely on a Serologic response. However, the later that infection is allowed to persist, the less likely the body is to trigger an antibody response to it, and we're going to take a look at the mechanisms behind that shortly. The Prozone effect, when a person's immune system is responding, can produce so much of an antibody response that it overwhelms the test, and then in that case it results in a false negative reaction as well. Direct Treponemal tests stay positive for life after exposure, so they can tell you if someone's been infected, but not whether or not the infection is active right now or not. And here's the thing, you may have heard that Lyme disease is associated with cysts, surface protein variation, biofilm formation, intracellular hiding, and these are all mechanisms that syphilis can also employ to survive the immune response, and even antibiotic intervention as well, so Syphilis does employ a glycine cloak, and that makes the immune system think that it's just part of the body itself, and so it will not attack the infection at that point. I've also listed out a myriad of other ways that syphilis uses to evade the immune system and antibiotic intervention, it can change its outer surface protein in infinitely, is what the research is showing us on the TprK protein, it can invade cells intracellularly. It does form aggregates, but they're not quite ready to call them biofilm. We don't have enough evidence to suggest that they can form or participate in colonies, but they do definitely form Persister cells, and it makes it very hard to get rid of if it's not caught early and that part is just not well discussed there's a lot of kinds of different Spirochete l infections but right now Lyme disease is the most popular one you know I tell people I had a TBRF test and they really don't know what I'm talking about, or they think I'm talking about Rocky Mountain spotted fever, but with all the Antigenic cross reactivity, or antibody cross reactivity on these Serologic screens, it's very possible that a lot of cases are just getting Laundered as Lyme disease, and so that's ultimately one of the reasons why I believe Lyme disease may be seeing a sharp increase. Of course, the evidence is telling us that it's climate change and increase in ticks, and that's true too. This is a case study, a tragic case study of a 43 year old mother whose routine ANTENATAL syphilis screens were negative, but she still died from syphilis. It had gotten into her heart, ruptured thoracic aorta, aorta aneurysm. They tested her with Serology after she had died, and that Serology was still negative. It was only immunohistochemistry that determined the syphilis left the tree bark appearance in her aorta. Spirochetes were visualized, and they had to go back and tell her family, 'Sorry, all those negative tests were not negative. Mom died from syphilis, I so the paradox is that the standard screening, the RPR, was repeatedly negative both after birth and after she died, and it was only after she died that syphilis had been elicited. This creates a problem because there are people running around with false tests and false senses of security in light of those tests, and in a lot of cases they're just being reckless. So, a negative Serology does not equal ex absence of the disease. This 2023 is a rare case report, but it really showcases how we need better tests, and we need, we need higher clinical suspicion that even if a patient isn't at risk, this mom was not at risk, she was married, she wasn't promiscuous, she was the model of a person who should not have died of syphilis. So, there needs to be a higher level of clinical suspicion, even in light of negative testing, and I don't know how we get there, but, but we do need to get there at some point. Syphilis can progress into pulmonary involvement, it can result in pneumonia. There is some evidence that syphilis can result in septic shock. I believe syphilis is accepted as a contributor to sepsis. Now, syphilis was not able to be cultured long term in vitro until 2018 so a lot of this information that I'm giving today about intracellular, the glycine cloak, this is all new information that we've only had within the past 10 years. Now, here's the big one: in 2025 last year, the first experimental evidence of partial penicillin and ceftriaxone resistance in contemporary syphilis strains, they found that 61% of isolates analyzed were resistant to penicillin, and that's a big problem, if 61% of syphilis out there, and they found that 74% of the SS 14 strain was penicillin resistant, then we're going to have treatment failure. We're going to have people with a false sense of security, and they're going to go out there being reckless. This study was an eye opener. In 2023 they found that 10 to 20% of early syphilis patients treated with penicillin do not achieve a fourfold drop in Nontreponemal titers within 12 months, titers meeting the definition of treatment failure. This was also clinical, however, this went beyond the serologic. These patients were sick, they had experienced penicillin, but they were starting to experience debilitation after that standard of care, and of course we discussed that 42% of secondary syphilis patients report intense PRURITUS stinging and biting sensations. Okay, now we're getting close to the end, guys. I'm going to do a short video for us to watch about the syphilis survival mode. This one's pretty cool, and I appreciate y'all making time to watch this with me here today. Okay, did that come up? Can you all see that video?

Speaker 6  58:19
Yes. Clinical

Speaker 7  58:21
dot there

Speaker 2  58:23
it is.

Speaker 6  58:25
No, it's very low, I

Speaker 1  58:50
Okay, if we can't get the audio, then I'll, I'll put the link in the chat here and try one more time on this

Speaker 7  59:09
one, antibiotic protocols yet modern clinical data, that's better. Since 1989 the incidence of syphilis in Russia has increased by more than 30 times in many of these cases, patients undergo aggressive full course antibiotic treatments, yet their serological tests continue to return positive results for months or years. This creates a medical contradiction. If the Spirochete is eradicated, the immune system should eventually cease its active response. This persistent seropositivity suggests that the pathogen has not been cleared, but is instead deploying a survival strategy that remains invisible to standard observation. The evidence for this strategy is largely contained within a specific body of research that has remained geographically and linguistically isolated between 1966 and 2006 Russian microbiologists published a continuous stream of transmission electron microscopy studies documenting the physical transformations of the bacteria during that same 40 year period. There were effectively no original electron micrographs of these forms published by English-speaking scientists. This body of Russian literature describes a specific survival mechanism, the transformation of the Spirochete into cell wall deficient L forms and protective cysts when the organism is under pharmacological stress. Bridging this data gap is necessary to understand why current treatments fail and how the bacteria persists in a supposedly cured host, Trepone pallidum reacts to its environment. Factors like interrupted treatment, low antibiotic dosages, or the presence of immune sera act as triggers for morphological change. Historical experiments by researchers like L.M. Ustomenko identified a primary catalyst for this change: continuous exposure to penicillin at concentrations between 15 and 250 units per milliliter. Under this chemical pressure, the bacteria begins to shed its rigid outer cell wall. The result is an L form, a spherical body that lacks the structural target many antibiotics rely on to destroy the cell. This state is highly adaptable. If the penicillin levels drop, the organism can spontaneously revert back to its active Spirochete form. This L-transformation is a responsive, reversible defense mechanism, allowing the pathogen to wait out a toxic environment. To understand the internal structure of these survival forms, researchers of Chun I'diis'iyyiiiiiiiigitootsowyninstcow, aididiiiiiiiiskiiis utilizesidom, ioiiiiiscopocib, their, theiryamedosis, opeyederedyowedis, intielenioiib, acyclsyomidococul, thefourtimecotis aidiiiiiiid mucousised, enfoured, oftenidysidyidytoo, two two distinct layers to wall itself off from the host environment. Even inside this envelope, the treponemes' original outer wall remains entirely preserved, because its internal architecture is kept perfectly intact. The cyst is not a by-product of decay, but a stable living structure capable of resuming reproduction. A common assumption in clinical pathology is that these atypical spherical bodies are merely ghost cells, the debris of a dying infection. However, live culture studies conducted by Russian teams directly challenge this view of biological debris in cultures densely populated with cysts, the spheres have been observed to be highly mobile, darting and vibrating actively. This active motility confirms that the cyst is a biologically functional stage of the life cycle, not a sign of cellular death. In 2006 A V Belichenko focused his dissertation on the logistical challenge of isolating these survival forms for study, because L forms naturally revert to Spirochetes when stress is removed. They are difficult to maintain in a stable state within a laboratory. Belichenko developed a patented culture medium using yeast extract, glucose, glycine, and thioglycolic acid combined with continuous penicillin to lock the bacteria in its L form state by forcing the bacteria to remain in this shape, his team could finally identify the specific markers that differentiate L forms from standard spirochetes. Standard diagnostic tests are programmed to recognize specific antigens located on the Spirochete cell wall. When the bacteria transforms into an L form, it sheds that wall, and with it, the very markers the tests are looking for. Using his stabilized cultures, Belichenko was able to isolate antigens that are unique to the L form surface. This allowed for the detection of antibodies specifically targeted at these survival forms, providing a way to identify persistent infections that standard tests simply cannot see. True eradication of the pathogen requires moving beyond the Spirochete model and developing diagnostics that account for the bacteria's entire adaptable lifecycle.

Speaker 1  1:04:19
All right, and that was that video right there. Hang on one second, we'll get you back on. So, yeah, syphilis has a lot of survival mechanisms that nobody talks about. Generally, if somebody does get diagnosed with syphilis, they're given a short round of antibiotics, and they'll get retested for their titers or titers. If those are good, then that's it. They're told they're cured, and to go on with their life. But as we also know, besides the persistent mode, exposure does not confer immunity in the case of syphilis, as I said before, Morgellons looks like secondary syphilis. That's what the research states. 73 of 105 patients in Chappelle series had maculapopular lesions that dominant morphology of syphilis, pruritus, and 42% of those patients. This is the 1980 study: ulcerative lesions, crawling sensations, and lesions on the palms and the soles. Morgellons, Maculopapular rash, same Maculopapular dermatosis pattern, plus filaments emerging from the skin, PRURITUS crawling sensations, ulcerative lesions, and Spirochete positive skin findings. The clinical resemblance is striking, but, but buried. Nobody talks about it, and that's because there's a lot of stigma around syphilis. When you talk about that, you're talking about relationships and people can feel guilty. I think personally that's another reason why Lyme disease is so appealing, because unlike with syphilis, it's nobody's fault. If you got bit by a tick, you know that's that's not on you. So we're looking for solutions, and hope we want to do direct detection method for syphilis and Lyme disease. We know that both the tests are not going to be able to find a lot of cases, and those cases that fall through the cracks are the most tragic ones. These are lives that could be saved just through better testing. We've been able to distinguish, we need to be able to distinguish an active infection from past exposure, and that might come from direct skin biopsies and new methods to detect the infections that can't hide themselves, even from contemporary methods, the patient already feels like they don't want to see a doctor. That's what I deal with a lot in the Morgellons Lyme Awareness Group, where people are more than just numbers, you know. We try to cut out a lot of the people who are in there to sell them cures, remedies, and false hope, and so we want patients to be able to engage with doctors again. We want them to feel, though, that when they go, it's not going to be the same two weeks of steroids and antibiotics, and they're back in the loop again, do In our group we hear all sorts of things, I've heard some terrible, terrible, horrific advice people were given to each other, and they tried to do it in our group, and we just won't let them do it. We're talking about everything involving bodily fluids to ordering bad chemicals for your swimming pool and putting them on your body, but again, these patients are desperate. What they're looking at is they want to live their life, maybe they want to get a job, they want to get married, but they can't do that if they've got this nasty skin condition all over their body, and people think they have syphilis, and so in that moment of desperation, though, they will try anything, and when I say that, what I mean is they will lay down the money they don't have to try anything, and they'll try anything over and over and over again, as long as that doesn't involve going to see a doctor, and so that's why I do what I would do, because I want more doctors to be able to see these patients and actually produce some results with them, measurable results, and that's why I believe in functional medicine, do These are the references on the slides. Here, I'm going to put the slide, the presentation in the chat, so everybody can download it. Check these out again. My name is Jeremy Murphree. I founded the New Morgoilleungs Movement. We are a nonprofit in South Carolina. We are not a charity, we're not registered with the IRS, and there's no board board of directors yet. I run the Morgellons Lyme Awareness Facebook group. We're a community base, and the purpose of our group is awareness. It's not support. We tell people that, you know, we're not there to help people try to find a way out of this, our only advice is to consider seeing a doctor that specializes in diagnosing and treating Lyme disease. I do the Morgellons Discussion Podcast, and we looked at my article earlier, How to Photograph Morgellons. Thank you, everybody. Thank you for making it all the way through my presentation, for being patient, and I'll now be happy to answer any questions that y'all might have.

Speaker 3  1:10:06
Well, thanks, Jeremy, that was amazing. And, and then you're right, I just have to share this to everyone, that the conundrum of Morgillions, actually, am I saying that right, is in the field of functional or integrative medicine. This is where I've seen a few, but again, I don't know what to do with it. And now you kind of shed light to that, and it's almost in the field of, I don't know if you heard of mold illness, the Lyme disease, all of these, or even even MCAS, right? You could put mast cell activation syndrome in there. So this is where conventional medicine kind of still trying to look into the dark for what it is, and it's a good thing now you brought up the fact that there are clinicians out there that knows how to deal with this. I'm just curious about, is there a group of clinicians that we can refer to, or us ourselves can be trained in relation to how to treat it? So, what is what are the resources for clinicians out there?

Speaker 1  1:11:17
So, my doctor started out as a 4m doctor, she, she wanted to get an anti-aging. She eventually moved into ILADS, the International Lyme and Associated Diseases Society. Her and Dr. Savely, I believe, are both still on the board there, and ILADS offers a training program, the ILA DEF program, but to be honest, Dr. Nario, I think it's the functional medicine that really plays into being able to bring a patient to remission, because you could be throwing antibiotics at them all day and night, but if they're not supporting their hormones, supporting their nutrition, getting away from the stress in their life, then they're just not going to achieve the kind of results that is worth both of you all's time,

Speaker 3  1:12:04
so basically this is also in the realms of training for functional medicine, and then because I lads, I have colleagues who are doing iLads, and they have their own training, some of them are not even trained in the integrated medicine field, anti-aging field, so this is something that you're saying that the functional medicine trainings, like for a forum or ifm, those, those are in, I guess, critical to treat these patients, and not just directly giving them antibiotics, because I'm thinking you're even the treatment protocol sounds like you're parenting syphilis as the disease itself and not Morgilians in terms of the treatments that we should give to patients, right.

Speaker 1  1:12:53
Well, that's the thing. I mean, what do you do when syphilis doesn't respond to standard of care, you know? And we talked about in the test tube, now over 60% of the specimens tested were resistant to penicillin. So, what do you do with a patient that has chronic syphilis? What can you do? But, yeah, absolutely. At that point, you got to be able to look at everything else that you can do, and I think that's where functional medicine and anti-aging medicine comes in because I'm doing a lot better than a lot of patients out there, but I do a lot more than they do in regards to anti aging, supporting my hormones, nutrition especially, and I think that if they're not doing, they have to feel like they're worth recovery, that's a big problem for a lot of people, because since society has shut them out, their families have turned away, their friends don't want to talk to them anymore, they have a low self sense of self worth, low self esteem, and you have to let them know, hey, you deserve to be healthy, you deserve to be happy, you deserve to have that normal life that you want, and it may not happen right away, but together we can work towards those, those goals.

Speaker 3  1:14:04
I think that's key, as what you said here, that not only will you apply that approach to Morgellons, but you have to validate the suffering of the patient. There's, there's a lot of patients who said, 'Oh, you're crazy in the head, and Morgellons also, if, if you, I mean, I'm sure you know it's a delusional disorder of psychiatry. I think it falls into that classification.

Speaker 1  1:14:26
No, sir. No, sir. The what I was trying to show you today was how to differentiate between Morgellons and Delusional Disorder. If you look at the reframing delusional infestations, new perspectives on unresolved puzzles, that's a Chinese paper that specifically details how to differentiate between delusional disorder and Morgellons.

Speaker 3  1:14:45
Right, I understand

Speaker 1  1:14:47
they're not the same.

Speaker 3  1:14:49
Right, I'm giving you the perspective of what conventional doctor will see in what Morgillions is. So, in this perspective, everybody listening on the call, if they Google Morgellons, they will see this stereotype delusional disorder of itching. I think that's what everybody's seeing, and now you're setting a better light to this, and educating us clinicians. And I'm glad that clinicians are here on this call, because they're the ones who really need to be aware about this. I mean, I, as I told you, I've seen the patient, like he's a pilot, and he's showing me all these lesions. What I ended up doing is, I referred him to dermatology, just because I could not see what he's seeing. It's just a regular lesion for me. But now, I mean, I myself probably don't have those microscopes that you were saying, and but the beauty of this is you, you definitely kind of held a good ground and foundational education here that I don't even know where to get the experience that you have.

Speaker 1  1:15:50
Yeah, I would have is a good place to start. You can email Dr. Savely directly, Lyme dc@gmail.com The biggest thing, though, is that there's no accepted diagnostic criteria to rule out Morgellons in patients who do not have it. When I'm interviewing, when people ask me to talk to a potential doctor, they might want to see the very first question I asked them if, if they, if they promote that they'd see more gallons patients is, have they ever ruled out Morgellons in a patient who does not have it, and oftentimes they, they can't say yes to that, or they, they give me a sideways answer, they go around it. We have two studies with 1500 Lyme disease patients that show that only 6% of them present with Morgellons. Regarding the microscopy, it's got to be 60 times or greater, or Morgellons fibers are practically invisible because they are so much finer than the normal hair. But the key diagnostic criteria there is that those fibers have to be embedded inside skin tissue. Like I said I interviewed a retired pediatrician who was literally accused of injecting these fibers into their skin,

Benoit Tano  1:17:09
right,

Speaker 1  1:17:10
but I also showed the slide where the cells are forming together, they stain positively for spirochete, antibody, and they're producing the characteristic Morgellons filaments, or that's what the study authors are saying, are Morgellons filaments,

Speaker 3  1:17:27
right? Just to, there's some, some questions online that also about, so Morgillions is actually clarify this with us, you started that the entry point of entry to our to our bodies would be the skin, and they're going to be sticking out their parts, is that right? And then they go into the systemic circulation after the embedment through the skin, is that, is that how it?

Speaker 1  1:17:52
No, no, orgilance is a result of intracellular sequestration by Spirochete infection, when the Spirochetes get inside the fibroblast and keratinocytes, they trigger a proliferation of the proteins those cells would normally produce. So, Morgellons fibers don't enter from the environment, they come from the body. Characterization and evolution of dermal filaments from Morgellons patients a 2030 a 2013 2013 paper found that these hairs were similar to malformed hairs. They have a hollow modulo, and that's why they often appear like flat ribbons, because they're squished in between the layers of skin as they emerge.

Speaker 3  1:18:39
So they're from the inside, and then coming out as these hair-like projections. That's what you're saying.

Speaker 1  1:18:46
They're not, they're malformed hairs. They're a result. They appear to be a result of the irregular proliferation of proteins as a result from the intracellular sequestration of Spirochetes inside these cells that would produce skin and hair,

Speaker 3  1:19:04
so if Lyme is carried by a tick, what? How does it get this get delivered to a body or a system?

Speaker 1  1:19:14
Tick bite, although the CDC does recognize congenital transmission,

Speaker 3  1:19:20
so this can be transferred through also saliva droplet airborne,

Speaker 1  1:19:28
no, no, Lyme disease has to be transferred, Lyme disease actually relies on the tick bite, the saliva from the tick bite to be able to impair the immune system, so it can introduce that infection into the body, and that infection can survive,

Speaker 3  1:19:44
right? But there is a theory behind Lyme disease transference about infected individuals, of course, through saliva, sexual activity. Is that the same thing for firm orgilance?

Speaker 1  1:19:56
Yeah, you're talking about the.. I know what the paper you're talking about, where they looked at, I believe, eight or nine different couples, and they identified the same strain of Borrelia between the couples, and some of them were sick, and some of them weren't sick, but both couples carry, or both people in that relationship carried the same identical strain of Borrelia. That was a middle vein paper as well. I was, I believe, culture and identification of Borrelia Spirochetes in vaginal and seminal fluids.

Speaker 3  1:20:28
Okay, Beverly has a comment and a question. I'm grateful because I have a patient that may have this. I assume a tickborne, even though all testing negative, so tried a couple of different antibiotics and got a great improvement, but there has been some residual. Can you scrape and look under microscope? I use my scope a lot. I think you did allude to this a while ago. You could do a micro, but the scraping part is that something that you could do, or extract it with a tweezer.

Speaker 1  1:21:01
Yeah, the especially the Follicular cast can get especially painful. What we're looking for, for diagnostic purposes, are the fibers, microscopic fibers, which can't be seen without at least 60 times magnification, clearly embedded within the layers of skin tissue. So, scraping, you could be scraping off some surface environmental artifacts. It's the direct observation inside the skin lesions that will show if there are strange system of fibers embedded within the skin tissue, the layers of the skin tissue.

Speaker 3  1:21:37
Right. Well, here's, here's a, here's one for you, in terms of, I mean, I guess you can give a tip for us being a patient, so as you enter a clinical visit with us conventional doctors, what, what should we look out for? I know you talk about the lesions, I mean, what are key key parts of the history, what are the highlights that we could probably put Morgellons as part of our differential diagnosis, because there's so many that we could probably put in there, but in your situation, for you having this, what should that be?

Speaker 1  1:22:14
In my case, the bullseye, the bullseye rash really helped with diagnosis. If I hadn't experienced that, I think it would be harder for clinical suspicion, and I think that clinical suspicion is especially important nowadays in regards to Morgellons. If they're walking in with Maculopapular lesions, then of course we want to be suspicious about Spirochete la infections. I think the reason we aren't so much nowadays is because we're used to believing that a shot of penicillin will cure it, and nobody has this problem. It's not a problem right now. We know from the news that it is a problem, and we know from the presentation, based on the evidence that testing is also a problem, so there's a lot of people running around with the false sense of security. I would say the most important thing for clinical suspicion would be the presentations of Maculopapular lesions, but those have to be observed under magnification. There are a lot of skin conditions that result in sores. Only Morgellons is going to result in the characteristic filaments that we looked at in Dr. Savelle's book this evening.

Speaker 3  1:23:30
That's why probably it's good for us to have a dermatologist on board here if they get educated by this, because all those tools that you just mentioned are carried in a dermatological office, so

Speaker 1  1:23:44
the dermatologist, their dermascope is typically 10 times magnification.

Speaker 3  1:23:50
Okay, you need more.

Speaker 1  1:23:54
Yeah, 60 times is what the research tells us. And when you get to looking at these sores, you can definitely tell. Oh, yeah, I wouldn't have seen that if I didn't have at least this magnification. They're so much finer than a human hair.

Speaker 3  1:24:08
Yeah, well, for that patient I was telling you, I was thinking of sending him to dermatology for scabies or even dermatophytes, pedicolocy, so all of these dermatological differentials run through your head. I never thought of even sending him to psych in relation to that, but I have seen cases before. Just because they are imagining things, nothing's there. You're beyond what you own, cocaine or something, right? They might be accused of so many psychiatric disorders in relation to this.

Speaker 1  1:24:44
Well, one problem that we have is because of the media exposure to the topic, a lot of people got really interested in it, and you do have a lot. I like to say that Morgellons is real, but your crazy uncle probably doesn't have

Speaker 2  1:24:58
it, because

Speaker 1  1:25:00
when they put it on TV, a lot of people really, they got into it, and so I've had people come into the group telling me about non fibrous versions of Morgellons, and you know, we don't do that either, but Morgellons is something specific, a lot of people have the wrong idea about it. What we try to promote is what science has demonstrated about

Speaker 3  1:25:20
it. Yeah, so Beverly's sharing here. I had a patient with itching all over. She swore she had bugs. I scraped and she saw mites.

Speaker 1  1:25:29
Oh no,

Speaker 3  1:25:30
so that see that you could definitely kind of find out so many things about this specific presentation, and you're talking about patients coming in with little baggies, trust me, I've seen them. What's in those things? I mean, not only just for Morgellons, but they have things that are coming out of different orifices in their bodies, and they say it's a worm. There are crystals here and certain fibers, so that through that you're not going to see that in a conventional medicine practice, it's usually an integrated functional medicine practice that this is something that's going to be common, and I'm sure everybody needs to probably take a mental note or a picture of that, because one day you're probably going to go back to that moment and say, 'Man, I think that made sense, but you just kind of poo-pooed it, because he didn't know what that was.

Speaker 1  1:26:20
That's that's exactly what happened to the pediatrician, who I mentioned. He was every time he saw that the match box sign, he was skeptical about a patient, and then he ended up getting Morgellons himself, and his whole insight into the affliction flipped overnight, you know, because he realized now he was one of those people, and nobody believed him either.

Speaker 3  1:26:42
Yeah, and I can share to you my collection of poop photos too, from my patients. That's an album, I tell you, because they send me pictures from up to Wazu, and I don't even know how to describe what they are.

Speaker 1  1:26:59
Now, we, we have rules in our group to keep Morgellons specific to what the research has demonstrated. If, if it's not inside the skin, then we don't consider it. A lot of people, they want to come in there talking about their orifices. We don't do that. Morgellons is not associated with poop or pee, so we just don't do that. It's a skin condition, and that's where we're at on the group.

Speaker 3  1:27:22
I know what I was pertaining to is when you talk to patients about gut health, for example, that's the first thing that they're going to show you. It's a, it's a Picasso and mirror out of works of art from their, from their toilets. So, yeah, I think we got all the questions on our, I guess, question board here. Any questions from our group? Anything that you guys want to share?

Speaker 8  1:27:51
I have a question.

Speaker 3  1:27:53
Oh, go ahead, Joe.

Speaker 8  1:27:54
Well, Jeremy, these are intelligent pathogens by rocketes, and I'm wondering, you know, like when you have a Biofilm community, whatever's in the Biofilm somehow communicates, but with spirochetes, where does the intelligence lie? Is it a group phenomenal, an individual self phenomenon, and can they exist in different forms in someone's body, like, if they insist, are they all cysts, or if they're out, are they all out?

Speaker 1  1:28:28
Yeah, these are all great questions. Thank you, Sean. Thank you again for hooking me up with Dr. Clearfield, so I could do this this evening. I appreciate you.

Speaker 8  1:28:38
Well, I think we need to get you in more Zoom groups. I thought you did a spectacular job.

Speaker 1  1:28:43
Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 8  1:28:45
What does a patient do when they have a fiber sticking out of a sore? Do you pull it out with tweezers? Do you clip it? You put a band aided over it. What do people do

Speaker 1  1:28:57
most of the time? And in my case, I didn't even know I had fibers until I looked at my skin with the microscope. It wasn't until my sister-in-law gave me a microscope, and I put a scab underneath it, that I could see them, because they are so tiny, they're practically invisible without magnification. In my case, and I think it, in most patients' cases, who I've spoken with, the problem isn't the fibers, the problem are the sores I'm talking about real Morgellons patients. I've met a lot of people who believe they have Morgellons, and oftentimes they have perfect skin - that's not what they're concerned about. So, I think real Morgellons patients are more likely to present with the Sores, and that's their specific problem, as far as Persister cells inside the body, you know, like I said earlier, exposure does not confer immunity, and there are different strains of these bacteria out there, both Lyme disease and other spirochete, infections, and these infections are going to operate on different schedules, so yeah, tickborne Relapsing fever, particularly, is noted in the literature as causing a recurrent sickness, where it comes and goes every few weeks. It involves vomiting, and that can be, you can be loaded up with a couple different kinds of pathogens. There are examples in the literature of people co-infected with Lyme and syphilis, Relapsing fever and syphilis at the same time, and they experience a myriad of illnesses. I believe that's accurate in saying that sometimes they may exist in a cyst form, while at the same time some of them may exist in a Spirochete form. I think a lot of that, though, Shell has to do with if the patient is currently experiencing treatment or not with antibiotics, and also how healthy their immune system is. We know from the Russian literature that a healthy immune system oftentimes our immune sera can cause those Spirochetes to revert into cyst form states to try to protect themselves from the amounting immune response.

Speaker 2  1:31:00
Well,

Speaker 9  1:31:01
I'm sorry.

Speaker 8  1:31:01
I mean, people, they don't freak out when they see things under a little microscope. If there's something you could put on, like alcohol or peroxide or antibiotic ointment, or anything to get rid of them, and what happens? Let's say you want to burn them off or something, or you know, it sounds when you pull a scab and you get those little critters, that's pretty freaky, you know,

Speaker 1  1:31:36
yeah, it's painful, it's painful to watch people go through, and it's hard to support people as they're going through it, especially because you're not going to get community support from everybody else either. So, oftentimes a lot of people just resign to the fact that if we just leave the patients alone, they'll stop picking at themselves because they're not going to get the attention that we believe that they're going for. So, Shell, the only thing that worked for me. I went from doctor to doctor to doctor here in Greenville, and I realized it's a system. The system is the two weeks of antibiotics and the steroids. When I flew to Virginia, and I started seeing my Dr. Cornish, she started prescribing and recommending things that I would have never imagined, that no doctor I saw would have ever imagined, and it all came down to the different kind of training that she had, and the different kind of experience she had with patients like me. I wanted to see her because I saw a presentation with her at the Charles Holman Foundation annual Morgellons Conference, talking about getting her patients off of medications.

Speaker 8  1:32:37
Could we get her to do a CME?

Speaker 1  1:32:40
Yeah, yeah, probably got it lined up for the radio. We'll see. Hey Corinne,

Speaker 8  1:32:47
and also I was going to talk to Dr. Nerio, maybe there's some homeopathic remedies, and I was going to ask Bob Graf CA if he's had any histories where patients have tried to see 60

Speaker 3  1:33:02
I you know, show the patient that I mentioned to you, we, we did before my referral, I actually did scalar therapy. Have you heard of this scalar therapy? Scalar, scalar therapy, so it's an energy type of therapy that we have in the office, and this is where he actually said that his lesion started to produce these specific fibers, so this that comment resonated in me, because you mentioned about homeopathy, so it's an energetic-based therapy, but I didn't do, we didn't do homeopathy on him, but it was scalar therapy that we did, and Who knows if we did more of that therapy? I don't know what that will bring to the table, but again, I just didn't follow this patient, just because I have no knowledge of such, and I didn't want to treat this patient just throwing this kitchen sink at him, but Jerry, Jeremy mentioned Jeremy, if you don't mind, can you share to us what was given to you, and, and what brought you to this, what maybe remission or cure that you're in right now?

Speaker 1  1:34:16
Yeah, it's, it's honestly a variety of agents. Um, one thing I like to point out is that even if you're going through remission, everybody around you might not be, and so if you're living in a stressful scenario, it's going to be harder for you to reach that point compared with some other people. I went through, she started slow with me, just a couple of antibiotics, and then we ramped up to I'm on three antibiotics right now. I take Dapsone and antiviral, and a couple of antifungals. We're doing the nistatin. Bactrim has been important for Morgellons patients, is what Dr. Savely likes to say, but it's going to be different for each patient. I don't like to give out my treatment protocol, because it's going to vary from person to person, and what I'm taking good hurts someone else. I do take a lot of cannabinoids. Thank God for hemp. I've got my 350 milligram THC gummies. I take two of those a day. I don't get high, but I definitely stay functional. I think the CBD has been probably the most beneficial in regards to just staying normal, staying level headed, and not going too far out there, ECG seed, some other nutrition, nutritious supplements that my doctor recommended to me really got me in the zone to where I could perform, and the whole point of seeing her was to be functional, I was having a hard time with work, I was losing clients, these sores with ooze, it was nasty, and she got me to a point to where now the sores are manageable. I maybe get one or two on my skin, but they're not ruining my life, and they're not presenting like they used to before antibiotics. They're typically in a stage of healing.

Speaker 3  1:35:57
Yeah, it sounds like it's a, it's a typical, it's an ILADS protocol, because I've seen the protocols of these clinicians, and it's a mix of, of course, naturals, like you mentioned, EGCG, and again, everybody kind of had there's so many ways to skin a cat. The ending point here is the most important one: the patient heals and feels better, and gets his quality of life back, and that's why, again, it probably a pool of doctors. There are more, we could probably prefer them to, you know, anybody here in Nevada.

Speaker 1  1:36:34
Dr. Clearfield is excellent. I hear

Speaker 3  1:36:37
more, okay?

Speaker 1  1:36:39
I do want to

Benoit Tano  1:36:41
mention,

Speaker 1  1:36:42
I do want to mention, though, the the thing that I really wanted to hit on here is that if, if we're dealing with chronic syphilis, that's not going to respond to penicillin, that's a whole new ball game, because what we knew from the past is that people would do anything desperate to get relief from that skin condition, including rubbing mercury cream into their skin lesions, and that's where we're at in 2026 We got people doing crazy stuff like that, and this really literally could be chronic syphilis. And what do we have a centers for dissolve disease control and prevention for?

Benoit Tano  1:37:17
Yeah, actually, Jeremy, my patient I was telling you about she wanted to do everything, including ivermectin, everything to actually do better, but I tried to help her the best I can. I sent her to dermatology, like I said, they couldn't help her because they could not see anything, but microscopes were not adequate enough to pick up anything, so now that I have this education, maybe I'm going to go back to the drawing board and maybe contact your doctor and see how we can manage her, because she's, she has had this for years. I mean, I saw her in 2017 and she still had those lesions, no matter what I do, no matter what cry, it is still present.

Speaker 1  1:38:08
That's terrible. Dental routine dental work is also especially important. A lot of times, when I've gotten just routine cleanings or extractions, my skin has improved, and the literature does show us that Treponemal denticola is a pathogen that's been observed in Morgellons tissue specimens.

Speaker 2  1:38:26
Well,

Speaker 10  1:38:28
jump in here.

Speaker 2  1:38:30
Hey, Bob,

Speaker 3  1:38:31
go ahead. Go ahead.

Speaker 10  1:38:32
Thank you, Dr. Schill. Yeah, there's a couple things I like to ask. I can, I can talk about Morgellons and Lyme, I line, and I got two into a couple instances there, but you mentioned about anti-aging approach. Anti-aging materials have been helping, and that's why I want to talk about a little bit.

Speaker 1  1:38:54
Dr. Clearfield got me doing the pregnant alone. I've been doing a lot of this stuff lately, and it's really kind of.. I was having some.. I'm almost 50, and so I was having like normal person things coming up, and I just.. I was a little concerned about it, but when I started taking that mega dose of pregnenolone, it just really started even out. I mean, I feel kind of like myself, things are bright in color again, and having a good time, so that's one of the things. Yeah, of course, the anti-inflammatory stuffs, they work for a little while, but it was really the cannabinoids that that addressed the inflammation the most. So, as far as anti-aging, cannabinoids are our anti-aging compounds too. That's been demonstrated in literature.

Speaker 10  1:39:44
I had a customer that, who had Lyme disease, and that's they've been diagnosed with that, and they've tried everything under the sun. I've got a video on this one, and she got on the carbon 60, and her Lyme disease, she was bedridden. She was so bad, and she started taking the carbon 60, and the carbon 60 doesn't really, from what I understand, get rid of the Lyme itself, but the toxins, the excretions, their poop basically is toxic to the body, and that's what causes most of the problems. And carbon 60 is a super detoxifier, so I think that's what had helped with her in her situation. I also had another customer who had claimed that they had Morgellons, they had fibers coming out of their skin and eruptions all over their legs, and you mentioned that was hard to contain, but she put it on topic, ly, and within a couple days, all those eruptions closed up, and they sealed up, and they, they didn't erupt anymore.

Speaker 1  1:40:49
Yeah. Did you get microscopic evidence that she had the fibers, though?

Speaker 10  1:40:55
They did. I did not. She told me she was diagnosed with it, and then then then she took it internally, orally, and of course the toxins have to get out of your body, so they all erupted and exploded again, and so everything got pushed out, and then then she put it on again, topically, and they all closed up, and that's the last I've heard from her, she was doing fine. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:41:20
it's hard, a lot of people bounce from treatment to treatment, trying things, and I feel like, honestly, I was spending more money doing that than just seeing my doctor. The reason I went with my doctors specifically is because of the Lyme disease association. If I didn't know my skin condition wasn't was associated with Lyme disease, then I'd probably still be bouncing back and forth or dead, and so when you're dealing with something specific, I think seeing a specialist who can address things specifically, the right tool for the right job, might be the easiest path towards getting your life back,

Speaker 10  1:41:55
or take something that might work, even though it's a supplement.

Speaker 1  1:42:01
Great questions, Bob

Speaker 8  1:42:03
Jeremy. Are there any universities or research centers working on Morgellons?

Speaker 1  1:42:10
Yeah, there sure are. Oklahoma State University has a Morgellons department that's run by Dr. Randy Wymore. I'm part of a Morgellons book that's going to be coming out, I think that's SUNY. They interview this, called the Morgellons Patient Experience, and that should be out later this year. It's going through peer review right now.

Speaker 3  1:42:34
Dr. Greska, I think you just bought yourself a ticket to be one of our presenters in the future events that we have sounds like you, I met you in a forum, and I bought your product. It's pretty good, and I'm sure when you mentioned about your patients or clients, there's a lot of knowledge behind your product and yourself that definitely our group will benefit from. So Dr. Bill likes to bait and switch our speakers while they're here, so let me catch you and put you, uh, put you in on a spot here for a presentation. One of these days, is that okay?

Speaker 10  1:43:14
Great, awesome. I'd love to go through what I know. I'm not a doctor, I'm a mechanical engineer, but I know carbon like crazy.

Speaker 3  1:43:23
Hey, we like like-minded people here in the group, so you can definitely attend in it's every Tuesday. I don't know if you have the link, but it's a recurring link that you can attend, and we're just talking about anti-aging, longevity, all of these cool supplements that we have to use in our practices to educate us, and that's why Jeremy here has given us a good bit of knowledge about Morgan. I have nothing really about Morgellon. I don't know anything about it, trust me. But now even a little bit of it makes a huge difference for my patients, so at least I have the basic stuff to, or the basic tools, even to start with, when I see one, so yes, leave me if you could send us your email or leave it on the chat, I'll send you a message about our openings for presenters. Yeah, and I tell everybody he has awesome stuff. I always see him in a

Speaker 9  1:44:16
program. I'm going to run my mouth too, because we stole Dr. Greska because of the importance of the carbon 60. Our research group, our ethical research group, which is kind of the East Coast version of you guys, we have, we have developed a priority for our research projects, and one is double glutathione that can be taken orally for detox and chelating, and very simple, very achieved, very needed by about 5 billion people, and the other priority research project we have is the carbon 60, so heck yes, we need to understand what Dr. Grass has to say, but just a little bit of viewing, what is this the only spherical molecule in the universe,

Speaker 10  1:45:22
there are other spherical molecules, but not a different materials. There have been, but carbon 60 is carbon, and it's neutral in your body, but it can give up an electron due to its shape, which is a sphere. There's a lot of electrons buzzing around here, so one moves away. They just like merging on a highway, all the cars move over. Same thing here, they all move over to fill up that gap, so that the carbon molecule stays in its shape, and it gives that electron to free radicals and toxins, targets inflammation. It targets inflammation very, very well.

Speaker 9  1:46:04
Yeah, and like, quickly I think the numbers are kind of astounding, to like over 100 times more potent than vitamin C.

Speaker 10  1:46:12
Yeah, many, many more times. That's a conventional product. My product is 200,000 times smaller in size than these other carbon 60 products that are on the market, so it's probably much more so, as far as being an antioxidant.

Speaker 9  1:46:28
Well, it's important enough that we have two things that are extremely important, and one is the double glutathione heavy metal extraction safely, orally, and this other thing, which I knew very little about until recently, but I'm totally blown away by, is the carbon 60. Just looking at the molecule you have up there, that is just so unusual. It's made up of pentagrams and hexagrams, right?

Speaker 10  1:47:00
Yeah, pentagons and hexagons,

Speaker 9  1:47:02
yeah,

Speaker 10  1:47:03
five and six sided figures,

Speaker 9  1:47:05
yeah, just, but it's very, very interesting, and it's fun, and with the kind of numbers we're getting on it. Thank you, thank you for helping us with this.

Speaker 10  1:47:16
I'll be glad to give a presentation at any time. Send me a schedule, and I'll plug in

Speaker 9  1:47:21
for everybody. Just because one of the reasons we were looking with Dr. Greska's methods, because he's made some major discoveries, and for us the super major discovery, his extraction method, if I may say that, is much cleaner, less toxic, and that's what we're trying to do, is reduce toxins, so if we don't introduce them by having high quality carbon 60, it's another world, and that's why we're so interested.

Speaker 10  1:47:54
Yeah, we don't use an extraction process, we don't pull it out with solvents like everybody else does, and they get a solvent toxicity, toluene specifically. We have a specific conversion process that converts carbon from one form of carbon into another form, the spherical shape, and so there's no toxins at

Speaker 9  1:48:18
all. That's a beautiful thing. Thank you.

Speaker 3  1:48:20
Well, Bob, yeah, just good. Don't spill the whole show for

Speaker 2  1:48:24
us. Just give

Speaker 3  1:48:25
some suspense for our audience. It sounds like everybody's getting so interested about it. Just questions for Jeremy here. They're interested in how much breakdown loan you're taking, because you're kind of saying it's one of their game changers. How much are you using?

Speaker 1  1:48:43
I'm taking Dr. Clearfield's recommended 400 milligrams,

Speaker 3  1:48:46
400 Okay. And then cannabinoids, CBD. What's your dose?

Speaker 2  1:48:51
CBD,

Speaker 1  1:48:52
CBG, CBC, CBN, what you call it? Yeah, I got, dude, new leaf for CBD. I'm taking a lixinal encapsulated anywhere from 45 to 90 milligrams a day. CBG, I believe I'm taking 18. I'm sorry. Yeah, I'm taking 30 milligrams of CBG daily, not including the CBG, getting the multicanabinoid, which has the CBC, CBG, CBD, and CBN in it. I've also got these hemp gummies with seven different kinds of THC in it, delta eight, THC, PHC, all that good stuff from hemp that some states are trying to ban, but some states are going, 'Now we need to let mom and pop make that money and are leaving alone. So highly recommend the I don't get high. I think that's the weirdest thing for people to understand. It's I just, I get normal and functional, I'm able to do my job

Speaker 3  1:50:00
well. You're staring at the interest of one of our doctors here, Dr. Quinn, kind of, is that's in his field, I

Speaker 1  1:50:07
believe. I met Dr. Quinn, and

Speaker 3  1:50:08
yeah,

Speaker 1  1:50:09
Charleston a couple years ago. Oh,

Speaker 3  1:50:12
he's famous, so I always try to get his autograph, I just can't.

Speaker 4  1:50:19
Yeah, I'm gonna start charging, you know, yeah. If anybody needs information, I can help out. That's what my company does. I won't take time here, but you know how to get a hold of me. If not, Dr. Nario, Dr. Clearfield has my info.

Speaker 3  1:50:34
Yeah, he's a shirtless guy in Vegas, so don't mess with

Speaker 4  1:50:37
him. It's hot, and my air conditioner went out.

Speaker 11  1:50:42
I was wondering. I just want to ask something. I was wondering if maybe near infrared sauna, where people sweat profusely, maybe can help to get rid of this microorganism in the skin.

Speaker 1  1:51:00
That's a great question. I don't know if we have any definitive evidence on that. Anecdotally, I do the red light machine when I go to Planet Fitness. The biggest thing that I believe impacts my skin one way or the other is going to be the stress. The longer duration we can go without any kind of emotional turmoil. That's the cleaner my skin is going to present. As far as infrared, it's interesting. I think sweat lodges are that could be beneficial, but as far as resolving the infection, again, if we're talking about chronic syphilis, this is a game changer. I mean, we got to have something that specifically works. Penicillin may be leading people into a false sense of security, and they could be behaving recklessly. So, I don't know. I couldn't tell you that we have any evidence on that. I'm sorry.

Speaker 11  1:51:55
And some of the doctors they publish in the Substack, I see. I saw Dr. Nixon, sometimes I'm, I joined with him some conferences live, he's in Australia, and then Anna Maria Mihalta, and some sub stocks, they always talk about this formation, so they see circles, and some of them they say it's synthetic biology, and but Anna Maria Miharta, I remember she said that works, I think it was CBD too, but also essential oils, the essential oils, and we have a lecture with Academy of Stem Cell Physicians, and essential oils are really working for so many things like like, they work for a lot of bacteria that are resistant to antibiotics, and because they just, they can go and destroy the membrane of those structures, and then another thing that I know works, just one second, because there was another thing that I knew that works for them, but now I don't remember, I forgot what, but yeah, oh, I know, Argentine, so Argentine 23 some patients, they told me they had chronic fatigue, they were having chronic something, Epstein Barr, and all this, and they got Argentine IV for a few days. The doctor gave them their chloriti and Bocaraton somewhere, and they got rid of all these viruses and everything. And Argentine also kills the bacteria, it kills all resistant bacteria.

Speaker 1  1:53:41
Thank you. There's a couple of things I want to mention, touch on that you had mentioned,

Speaker 11  1:53:45
and viruses,

Speaker 1  1:53:46
and viruses. The, the Substack, remember, is not a peer-reviewed journal, so when people bring me Substack articles about synthetic biology, I just have to remind them that this is somebody's opinion, they're doing this to get social engagement, not necessarily to promote the truth. So, I don't take anything from Substack seriously, unless it's reporting on something that we can verify in a peer-reviewed journal. No, Morgellons fibers are absolutely not synthetic, not at all. As far as the essential oils, the one thing I've run into is people can get reckless, especially around their pets, or with their pets. Some essential oils, some brands can be damaging to pets. So, I'll just say, be careful, do your research about what essential oils are going to be safe if you have pets, but also keep in mind, if we're talking about chronic syphilis, it could be this is going to be a hard, long road ahead.

Speaker 11  1:54:45
Yeah, I mean, I just mentioned them because I did not, I did not know that they are right or wrong, I just thought something, you know, their opinion, but yeah, and then I know that beside this antibiotics, there are these essential oils, maybe spooky too. I also join with them some times when they talk about how they kill microorganisms with scalar and scalar, they think they use the scalar energy, and then it was this Argentine that I know also helps with antibiotics that are resistant or bacteria or with viruses, just what I remember.

Speaker 1  1:55:36
Yeah, my doctor, she put me on some herbals, Japanese knot wood, I take the mono Lauren Relora, a lot of things that I wouldn't have ever thought about that she's just keen on, and so I do agree with you. I think supplements, essential oils, are they have their role in treatment.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:54
Yeah, okay.

Speaker 1  1:55:57
Excellent points. Thank you.

Speaker 11  1:55:59
Yeah, very amazing presentation. All

Speaker 3  1:56:06
right, yeah. Any more questions? One more. Okay, go ahead.

Speaker 8  1:56:10
One more comment. I looked, I asked AI, are there any March? Won'ts patents? Oh, yes, there are. Here's once when they said weapons grade advanced nano materials, aka Morgellon. So that's kind of interesting. I mean, I mean this has to be validated, of course, but does Morgellons respond to cell phone radiation or cell phone, you know, electric magnetic frequency, that's another. We don't have a good place to investigate things, and it seems like something dangerous to play around with in a bio lab.

Speaker 1  1:56:54
Well, Morgellons, what the evidence shows us is that it's a response to exposure to Spirochete lain fiction. Ultimately, it's a skin condition. Morgellons can mean different things to different people. I know a couple of punk rock bands that are called Morgellons, and yep, and they do some pretty good music, but, but they're not the skin condition that the scientific evidence shows us that they are. Some people do experience EMF sensitivity, that's a real condition. I don't experience it, but people can have overlapping conditions. They even if EMF exposure is not associated with Morgellons, somebody can have EMF sensitivity and Morgellons at the same time, and that could maybe lead them to believe that the two are related or associated in some way.

Speaker 8  1:57:46
As regarding stress, meditation is good if you find one you like.

Speaker 1  1:57:53
Yeah, 100% get outside and touch grass, but stay away from the toxoplasmosis.

Speaker 9  1:57:58
Hey, let me ask one quick question. Just because, just because I think it's important, since we mentioned Lyme, the initial question would be, Do you think Lyme was developed as a bio weapon off the coast of Lime, Connecticut, and the other thing that really is extreme, you know, when Lyme came through, is really important, and now we have Alpha gal with a Lone Star tick, another tick born, and these ticks are dropping out of the sky in boxes, and then they're released on the ground. So, what the heck is going on? So, loans, anyway, that's a question. So, do you think Lyme is possibly, you know, weaponized by a weapon? And, do well. It was, you know, back in Nazi Germany. I mean, that's what they were dealing with, mostly. And now we have a new tick, the Lone Star, but it is extreme. So, what do you think?

Speaker 1  1:58:54
Sure, John, I love it whenever I get that question, and I do get posed that question quite often. I do not believe Lyme disease is a government-created bio weapon, and because we found evidence of Lyme disease matching 60% of modern day DNA in Oxy the Ice Man, a 6000 year old mommy that was found on top of the Italian Alps. After Lyme disease was discovered, we went back and pulled out mouse cadavers from museums across the country, and we found evidence of the same Lyme disease that we have today in those cadavers from the 19th century. So, Lyme disease has been around now. One thing that doesn't get talked about a lot, and to where I do think that I would classify this as a bio weapon is when John Hopkins University went down to Guatemala and allegedly injected orphans with syphilis. That's probably the closest I would consider a Spirochete lens, infection being weaponized. They had no permission to go down there. They hired a bunch of prostitutes and paid them and injected them with syphilis, then sent them into the psych wards to go have sex with the patients to see if they could transfer it. They were trying to study to determine if they could come up with a preventative. News flash, we still don't have a vaccine for syphilis.

Speaker 9  2:00:20
Was that the same injections in Muskegy?

Speaker 1  2:00:25
No, in Tuskegee was a different kind of study. So, Tuskegee was about what happens if we just don't treat people who already have

Speaker 9  2:00:32
it. Oh, okay.

Speaker 1  2:00:33
Guatemala was, let's inject a bunch of people with it and see what happens. They were putting gonorrhea in people's eyeballs, it's all documented. It all came out. Hillary Clinton apologized for it a few years ago.

Speaker 9  2:00:47
Yeah, I was just wondering, because Alpha Gal, it's already infected 500,000 people, it's very serious. And what the heck is going on? Because I don't know,

Speaker 1  2:00:58
the boxes.. I think what's happening is people are finding boxes out in the woods, and ticks just like to go to boxes. That's where they, they're safe, they're cool. It's a little moist under there, but if I'm not mistaken, I think the Lone Star tick can self replicate. I think it can clone itself. I think it can replicate without copulation. If I'm not mistaken,

Speaker 9  2:01:18
yeah. Well, I've never, yeah, I mean, there are animals being attacked by that now, you know, like the snakes, you've probably seen it, it's like unbelievable infestation of ticks,

Speaker 1  2:01:30
it's crazy, yeah, it's like it's raiding ticks, definitely a good point, great questions, John,

Speaker 2  2:01:35
yep,

Speaker 8  2:01:36
maybe in Texas they combined with armadillos,

Speaker 2  2:01:40
I hey.

Speaker 9  2:01:44
Great, great talk tonight, very informative. Thank you,

Speaker 3  2:01:48
Jeremy. Thank you so much for such a great presentation. Anything else before maybe let him off to the sunset? So, maybe some final words for us to ponder on, so we can probably be more educated about Morgellons.

Speaker 1  2:02:08
Thank you, Dr. Nario. I appreciate everybody being patient through my presentation, and I appreciate everybody showing up, especially people who aren't part of the Clearfield group, coming from our Facebook group, and joining us for this presentation. I wanted everybody to leave here with the understanding that we could potentially be dealing with crisis of false negative syphilis that is antibiotic resistant. Our whole medical system is built on after syphilis. We got the penicillin, people started getting the shots, they were being released in mass from psych wards because schizophrenics were being cured, and now we're finding this evidence that okay, maybe it's not going to cure everybody. Penicillin does cure 80 to 90% of Lyme disease and syphilis patients, but the infection has to be elicited first. And today we covered why those infections might trick the immune system into not producing antibodies, which would reveal themselves on that Serologic screen and could potentially lead to a 43 year old mother dying of a ruptured thoracic aorta. Everybody, please think about this. Feel free to email me. I want everybody to collaborate on what we can do, solutions together. But thank you for letting me introduce you to what I believe about Morgellons' disease.

Speaker 3  2:03:38
Well, thank you so much, Jeremy. It seems like you also have a lot of knowledge about other things, so we're probably going to get you back in here to share more of what's in your, in your brain trust there. So, but it was a great pleasure to have you with us, and please educate us again with such knowledge. So, so we'll see you next time, I'm sure. Dr. Bill has your contacts

Speaker 1  2:04:05
100%

Speaker 3  2:04:06
All right, yeah. So, for everyone, I don't know who's presenting next week. Well, we're gonna get emails. Dr. Bill didn't pass that info to me. And just to remind, please support him. He's going to be in ifm San Diego, may 27 to 30, so cheer him on, give him a pants in the back. He's pretty excited about this one. He's pretty pumped, so he got his haircut today for this. So let's acknowledge that. And also, for lectures, I'll be also lecturing in july 4, and which is in the Philippines, is five in one of their bigger medical facilities there. It's a medical city about integrative homotoxicology, and also for a forum. I'll be lecturing also online for women's hormones on October. So, if anybody has lectures or any way we can support you here, we want a big family, tell us how we can support you. Books to sell, publicities, whatever you want, just tell us. We'll help you out with that. And I think we also have our research group, who's here to give us some updates on what's going on. Maybe John or Dr. Quinn.

Speaker 4  2:05:18
Yeah, John, go ahead. We didn't meet this past Saturday, but John, if you have any updates.

Speaker 9  2:05:24
No, the only like surprise thing is the importance of those two molecules we spoke of, double glutathione and the C 60. Very important, unbelievable. If you look into it, it's like too good to be true, and if you have, you know, something that's non-toxic, boy, that's kind of a beautiful thing,

Speaker 4  2:05:49
right? You know what, I should add the fact that what we're talking about here basically is establishing an apothecary, as you guys have heard about under the tribal jurisdiction, that is going to be able to carry and encourage people to use some very unique type of products, we're actually able to get things out through this group that are yet to be FDA approved. We have our own approval process, we have our own approval group, and we're looking to once we get everything established to be able to promote people's products in a unique way.

Speaker 3  2:06:27
I see that the research group is lacking on Memorial Day. I thought they just worked 24/7 They get vacations too.

Speaker 4  2:06:35
Yeah, we took a day out, first time in like

Speaker 3  2:06:38
Scratch, or they're two

Speaker 4  2:06:39
and a half, three years now,

Speaker 11  2:06:41
some first day

Speaker 9  2:06:41
in years. The two things that are absolutely unique about this group that I have never seen before is the concept of apothecary, which is production, distribution, and research data that's collected for research, so that's part of what Dr. Quinn is doing, but the other miracle man we have is Dr. Tano, who has developed a system of, you know, digital AI understanding that I've never seen to this degree before, but those two things are going to allow us to do the research on the carbon 60 and the double glutathione, because we can, we're producing applications that are specific that can be put on a phone app. So, anyway, unbelievably cool and good. So, thank you, Dr. Clown, Dr. Tano, because it's heavy.

Speaker 3  2:07:46
Oh, yeah, that guy doesn't arrest Dr. Tano, just made a replica of himself through that Tao Pro app, so if everybody wants to get that, you get a piece of Dr. Tano for sure,

Speaker 2  2:07:58
yeah, for a

Speaker 3  2:07:58
price, he doesn't come for free,

Speaker 4  2:08:02
no, but it's not expensive.

Speaker 3  2:08:04
We're not down-bulling Dr. Tano, he's a pretty pricey guy, but it's his replica, that's how you'll pro out, if very affordable. All right, anything else before we part ways and head to the sunset?

Speaker 8  2:08:17
I wanted to talk to Dr. Quinn, that maybe there's some nutritional guidance for this affliction.

Speaker 4  2:08:26
Yeah, you know what this is. This is critical, and I, and I was so happy that Jeremy did kind of touch on that, you know, the anti-aging or the general health importance in this whole thing, die. diet and exercise and detox obviously are three of the main pillars that we have to focus on. When he did mention the CBD type of thing, there's one very interesting thing to keep in mind that all these cannabinoids do, and that is give you a relief from what we used to term a sense of impending doom, meaning you don't know what this this problem is, you don't know if you'll ever get better, you, you are under a dark cloud, and the cannabinoids can lessen that to a major degree, and your mental outlook, as Jeremy said, is critical for the whole thing. Tucson, now you combine all of these things, plus, as we say, conventional treatment, whether you know it's antibiotics or whatever, you combine all this, and I think you got the best chance of success, and that, and getting a hold of Jeremy, and, and knowing that there are other people out there that have this, that you're not crazy, and that there is hope. You combine all of this, and like you said, shell diet, and I'm going to say, you know, I always do exercise, lifting heavy stuff is all going to help people.

Speaker 8  2:09:51
You wonder if there's any interaction with Morgellons and vaccines, and you know, mRNA,

Speaker 4  2:10:02
you You know, I think that's a great question. I'm not an expert to,

Speaker 8  2:10:06
you know, is that

Speaker 4  2:10:08
these things may be synergistic, you know, they may be additive with each other. They may provide, like we learned about biofilms, provide a nice environment for these things to communicate, you know. And you said Sheld are smart, so you know maybe there is something to that combination of things.

Speaker 2  2:10:27
We just

Speaker 8  2:10:28
got to be smarter,

Speaker 1  2:10:30
so there's some evidence out of the University of New Haven that Morgellons may be genetically predisposed.

Speaker 8  2:10:37
If we can get some of these experts to do additional CMEs that can help enlighten everybody, and we should try to pursue that.

Speaker 6  2:10:49
That reminds me, remind me about light. I just, I'm getting onto this new professor that's, and a doctor, he got blacklisted for talking about light is something he was never talked about way more important than what we, what we believed. And just remind me, for this Saturday's class,

Speaker 8  2:11:14
Joel, you think among the veteran population there are, you know, a percentage of veterans that are afflicted with Lyme or Magellan's or Ziploc.

Speaker 3  2:11:25
Oh yeah, they

Speaker 8  2:11:27
need to be addressed,

Speaker 6  2:11:28
especially a lot of them come from the tick infested areas, and then we also go train in tick infested areas, so it's.. it just happens, there's no doubt about

Speaker 2  2:11:39
it.

Speaker 8  2:11:40
And then, for Dr. Tano, if there's a way that AI could more accurately diagnose these conditions, that would be great,

Speaker 2  2:11:49
right? I

Benoit Tano  2:11:50
haven't, I haven't done anything yet with that, so I would do, I would probably query that and see what it, what comes out.

Speaker 4  2:11:59
He'll have a book out in about three days.

Benoit Tano  2:12:01
I hope so. I probably can do that. I don't know how we try. Yeah, I haven't thought about that, but that's serious. I think I mean I have a patient differently. I think she had morgues, but I need to get with Jeremy or somebody to do something with that,

Speaker 6  2:12:24
and I did get the benefine and

Speaker 2  2:12:29
the mu

Benoit Tano  2:12:30
person, yeah,

Speaker 6  2:12:31
person, yeah, I got that. I'm gonna start that,

Benoit Tano  2:12:36
yeah, that's my little, my little thing that I do when people have roses, or whatever the dermatologist cannot treat, that's what I use to help them out.

Speaker 6  2:12:46
Looking forward to trying it out.

Speaker 3  2:12:49
What is that, Terminificine? And what, Dr. Tano

Benoit Tano  2:12:52
Mu, Pyrocin?

Speaker 3  2:12:54
So that's topical. And then an orbital,

Benoit Tano  2:12:57
yeah, because most of the time people have like like, roses, it is Candida overgrowth, so the dermatologist give them all kinds of stuff, metroidal, so gels, and all of that, that are not working, so sometimes the combination with staff epidemics with candida overgrowth, so if you combine an anti fungal with a type bacteria, then let the two of them do a better job.

Speaker 3  2:13:35
These are for resistant, right? You should try initial therapies first.

Benoit Tano  2:13:40
No, no. Actually, that's the first line therapy,

Speaker 3  2:13:44
first line pleurisation.

Benoit Tano  2:13:46
Yeah, because definitely does a better job. I see so many of them, women especially, they come, they have their faces are all red and flaky, and nobody is really doing anything, whether the dermatologists are completely off

Benoit Tano  2:14:03
correct thing, all right. Okay,

Speaker 8  2:14:07
Dr. Tano, you think a topical iodine product might help infection?

Benoit Tano  2:14:13
Not, not necessarily, because it's a fungal infection, so you have to treat the fungal infection superimposed with bacteria infection, so you have to treat both

Speaker 8  2:14:25
some combination therapy,

Benoit Tano  2:14:27
right.

Speaker 2  2:14:32
All

Speaker 3  2:14:34
right. Well, again, another gem from Dr. Tano, which will be, have we're going to have you again, Dr. Tano. So save some suspense for your knowledge here.

Benoit Tano  2:14:44
Maybe I should do infectious disease in the 21st century, right?

Speaker 3  2:14:48
Oh, we'll be happy. You were always happy to grace us with your knowledge every time, every day, so you know that. And also, I'll bring a friend, as Dr. Bill always says, so we can grow and spread the knowledge, and of course, all the good things that we talk about here every Tuesday. Bring one friend, that's what all we need. We'll multiply, and we'll do good things.

Speaker 2  2:15:15
Yeah.

Speaker 3  2:15:15
All right, so we'll see you again next Tuesday. Thank you, guys.

Speaker 9  2:15:19
Thank you, thank you,

Speaker 6  2:15:20
thank you, everybody.

Speaker 3  2:15:22
Bye.

Speaker 6  2:15:23
Great class, Jeremy.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:24
Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai