Unknown Speaker  00:42
Doctor said so you're always The first One here.

Speaker 1  00:58
So Okay, hello. Dr Hakimi, hi. Dr Bill, how are you I'm doing great. How are you

Unknown Speaker  03:02
fantastic. Thank you very much.

Unknown Speaker  03:08
You got quite the setup behind you there.

Speaker 2  03:14
It's, it's actually our Beverly Hills office, but we're no longer there. So I've kept it for some of our patients who still do zoom with us. Zoom consult with us in Beverly Hills. It's, it's a reminiscent of the of the past.

Speaker 1  03:31
Okay, great. Well, thank you for being with us again,

Speaker 2  03:34
of course. Thank you very much for having me well, always,

Speaker 1  03:38
always, you're always informative and very, very interesting. So we're happy to have you So and

Unknown Speaker  03:55
hello. You

Speaker 2  04:04
Dr Bill, you

Unknown Speaker  04:24
Hello, you.

Unknown Speaker  04:49
Hello, my computer freezes and I, I,

Unknown Speaker  04:59
I thought we were out of mercury retrograde.

Speaker 1  05:03
I don't know. I don't know what it is. It happens almost every week here. You know I should have plenty of everything you need, so it doesn't happen, but it does, fortunately, nobody gets kicked off. So if you lose me, just keep on going. Okay, I'll be, I'll be, actually, so got it. So you've been anywhere or presenting, doing any presentations, anywhere

Speaker 2  05:33
we did. We were doing a lot of stuff in Miami. Actually, we're going to colleges and universities and promoting homeopathy and giving a what we call a PLH, which is practical introduction to homeopathy. We were at NOVA state Southeastern University, and we got the faculty of medical school and osteopathic school, because it's one of the schools that has both medical school and osteopathic school. So they actually have the faculty and a group of them signed up for the course, which is amazing. Now they're in the course with us.

Speaker 1  06:07
I'm gonna say that I'm surprised. You surprised they didn't run you off.

Speaker 2  06:14
It would stick, yes, but I mean, I do have good, good slides and and research. And I have some research in this set of slides as well, but I showed them more research, obviously. So it was it was good. It was good. So, so we're growing really nice in the Miami area. Beverly Hills was a little bit tough. I mean, I still lectured for american college of osteopathic family physicians of California like three or four times and see me by the bay, but getting into a university anywhere else in California was a little bit tough. Miami has been a little bit more welcoming to homeopathy, which is great.

Speaker 1  06:58
Yeah, I've been working with Dr Zarin a little bit, but she gets to be a little overbearing at times.

Speaker 2  07:10
No, I listen to some of the, some of the webinars that you guys had and, or videos and, and very interesting, you know, it's Classical Homeopathy, and we are clinical homeopathy. So a little bit of a difference there.

Speaker 1  07:27
Yeah, yeah. She tells me, I do. My homeopathy is from a medical doctor standpoint. So,

Bill Clearfield  07:38
so I said, Well, you know, and then I don't know if you know that, you know, Nevada has, has actually has a license for homeopathic medical doctors. I didn't know that. Yeah, it's a, it's a. In fact, Dr nary, who's up here, he's the vice president of the board. They have their own board. They have their own certification. They have their own Yeah, and they kind of encompass all of integrative medicine, so, so I just actually got that my life. So I finally got an MD degree after 45 years. My mother would be very happy HFD, but it's an MD

Speaker 3  08:20
Dr, Bill. That's a good thing that you brought that up, because so being in Arizona, I met up with the board of homeopathy in Arizona. So now, as things starts to transpire, some collaborations, something that we'll be working on in the future, and I met the some of the homeopaths over there, and they also have the same, I guess, structure that we have. They have MDs, pure homeopaths, and also, again, other practitioners that are like medical assistants that were part of the practice of these homeopathic practices. So meaning, yeah, we have another arm here that we can expand on.

Speaker 1  09:05
Alright? So, because I don't know if you know what's going on with in the legislature, you know the legislature in Nevada is in session, and you know, every time they show up, it's, it's trouble. So,

Speaker 3  09:15
and you've been hearing the new stuff that, because the naturopaths don't have a, I guess, a board here in Nevada, and now we're trying to absorb them so they can actually, actually practice freely in the state of Nevada again. So we don't know where that's going to

Speaker 1  09:31
go. Well, the big to do here is that the the legislature is trying to get rid of the osteopathic medical board and just make it all one, including, including the chiropractors. And of course, the MDS would have four votes in the chiropractors, and the deals to each so, so the beat goes on, and you all here, know, my, my love of the ALA and osteopathy, osteopathic, you know, ruling poo bus, so, so, so every time I get it, I get a message from, and I'm, I'm sure it's just a form letter. So I got a, I got a card today. How come I didn't re up for the AOA, my membership and how important it is, help me

Speaker 3  10:30
so they miss you over there, and the sound, so they miss you over there. Yeah.

Speaker 1  10:39
So, yeah. So it's, it's, yeah, they miss me, yeah, like a hole in the head. So it's before we, usually before we get started. Dr akimi, Dr Nario, is taking the integrative medicine course in Arizona with Dr Andrew Weil. So he always gives us the tip of the week. What did you What did you learn? So to go, we don't have to go there for two years and sit through it all. So we just get, we just get the highlights.

Speaker 3  11:07
Yeah, well, the highlights are really the ones that you hear from me. That's like a aha moment that probably I didn't know. And hopefully you guys don't, and I can enlighten the information for you. So for this week, we have glycemic index and glycemic load. You probably know about this, but probably a refresher for everyone. I use a lot of glycemic index, but I don't, I didn't realize that there was a glycemic load. So now I'm kind of looking forward to using this new tool. So glycemic index is actually basically just how quick a food, right, makes your blood sugar go go up. But with glycemic load, that quality plus the amount of carbs per serving, so there's natural equation for it versus a glycemic index. So you just see a chart. So the thing why, the beauty, why a glycemic load should be used is because there are some deceptions when you use glycemic index by itself. A good example for you would be foods with high glycemic index, such as watermelon, but it actually has a low glycemic load when eaten in normal amounts. And same for a low glycemic index but high glycemic load, which is like bold pasta. So this can actually spike your blood sugar so fast. And studies had shown that when you look at glycemic load, and glycemic indexes cannot produce this because they were used for basically studies that it actually can be used to see assessment and decrease in cataracts. When you suggest that low glycemic load for a patient, and even prognosis for esophageal scream of cell cancer and even depression in postmenopausal women. So you probably want to recommend high glycemic, I guess load for I mean, when this is produced, when you eat a high glycemic load. So, as you can see, just me looking at this lens, that there's another tool clinically that we can use. So that's my update for today. Okay,

Speaker 1  13:06
all right, so good. So I feel, I feel like I've gotten my money's worth here. So

Unknown Speaker  13:14
see in installment, yeah,

Speaker 1  13:18
okay, um, once, one more second, we'll be good to go. So today's our today's guest is Dr Payam Hakimi. Did I say that correctly? Yes, and he's a renowned doctor of osteopathic medicine with a distinguished reputation for practicing and teaching osteopathy, clinical homeopathy and functional medicine, leveraging his background in conventional and Complementary Medicine, Dr higimi prioritizes personalized care along with public education. He received his Doctor of osteopathy degree from Western University of Health Sciences. Completed his residency at Los Angeles County USC with the Department of Family Medicine. While there, he was elected chief resident and Assistant Clinical Professor at USC Keck School of Medicine, board certified in family medicine in 2006

Bill Clearfield  14:21
He began teaching clinical homeopathy in 2008 with the center of education and development of homeopathy. He's a senior teaching faculty member there. He holds a number of unique distinctions. He's the only physician in the United States to have consistently lecture on homeopathy at medical conferences for many years. He's expanded the reach of homeopathic education by bringing it to medical schools, nursing and acupuncture schools, universities and colleges. You must have a thick skin, sir. His expertise is further recognized by presentations at international homeopathic conferences. He actively teaches homeo homeopathy nationwide to a diverse audience, including physicians, residents, medical students, nurses, practitioners and other healthcare practitioners. And we'll have some information when our CME credit is done about the Education Center for Education and Development of clinical homeopathy. And so without further ado, we bring you, Dr Payam Hakimi, and welcome again. It's always a pleasure having

Speaker 2  15:31
you. Thank you very much, Dr Bill for that introduction. I really appreciate it, and I'm very happy to be here. I'm very excited to share some of this information with you. I guess my first question is, can everyone see my slides? Yes, we're good. Okay, fantastic. So I really want to thank you for being here and spending this your time, your your evening with me, because this is a these are points that are near and dear to me. I've been practicing homeopathy for a long time. I'll give you some background in a second. And I've seen amazing changes, transformations in my patients, and I share that with our students at CDH. I'll tell you some information about that as well. And I'm glad to sort of bring this sort of constitutional homeopathic aspect, which is a really, I want to say three dimensional in sometimes even more than that. With our patients, it's really understanding a patient to all of all of their essences. And we'll see as as we go. I don't want to, you know, give away the whole thing, but as we go along, we'll see how this sort of gives us some information. I practice. Well, I'm a family physician by training from USC, as you heard. But I do functional medicine, preventive anti aging medicine, IV nutrition, homeopathy, osteopathy and cranial osteopathy, and then hormone replacement therapy as well. I do seminars and webinars for Bucha, on which is the largest homeopathic manufacturer of homeopathic medications. And you guys see their Bluetooth everywhere. I'm their media contact, and I do podcasts for them and TV, radio, everything that comes along. I'm a senior teacher, a teaching faculty at Center for Education and Development of homeopathy, which is the biggest homeopathic teaching course in the world. We're in multiple locations in the US and Canada. We are all over Europe and and so there is a lot of information that we can share. I've lectured, as you mentioned, a lot of different places. One of the places I went to was VA Miami. And VA was gracious enough to not only give me their grand rounds, but also sort of use it virtually having all of their VAs in the Miami area and the East east coast to sort of get in and listen to the homeopathy. And that was very important to go there. I've lectured different places. Ammg is one of them. A lot of what I do is, as I mentioned, webinars and seminars. Boron has,

Speaker 2  18:54
there is a sort of a health care practitioner education site. I have a lot of information on there, or webinars on there, and I recommend, for those of you who would like to know more about homeopathy, to sort of log in, sign in. And there's so many different informations there that that you can use CDH. This is a pre COVID era where we had sort of in person training all over United States, and I used to teach in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Philadelphia, times and Fort Lauderdale. And post COVID, we have gone through a zoom transformation. And since then, as of last couple of years, in in floor in Miami. We're trying to bring it back, and we've brought it back to in person. So our in person classes are up going in Fort, Lauderdale, Los Angeles, and a couple of other places. But CDH offers a course in person and also on Zoom. So if anyone is interested about homeopathy, I'll give some more information at the end as well. It's an eight weekend class, which is one weekend a month. So it takes eight months from November through June, and we offer 14 CMEs per session. So with the help of Dr halasa and chronic disease prevention and management, we are now offering these CMEs. And if you like to learn homeopathy and at the same time, get your CMEs. It's a great place to be. The instructors are amazing. We have ophthalmologists, internal medicine doctor, family medicine doctors, dermatologists, pediatricians, Family Medicine myself, functional medicine doctors. So it's an amazing group of doctors who lecture, as well as put out these webinars that you see on wire on the website, we also have sort of evening workshops where we just talk about one thing, like, I don't know, like menopause or or anything else that the doctors ask For. We're going to talk about homeopathic consultation. My goals are to give you an overview, just for those who are not very familiar with homeopathy, and then talk about how we choose homeopathic medications, go over homeopathic constitution, and then give you some treatment examples. Talk a little bit about FDA, and then some homeopathic research, and then I'll get your questions at the end, or you can ask any time. For that purpose, I ask you to just have a different perspective at this point, the subjective, objective assessment and plan does not work in homeopathy. It's a different way of approaching patients. So it's important to sort of see how it's different than medicine as well. The if we go back and look at sort of the time line of medical arts, you see there's Persian medicine, and then before that, you have Ayurveda, you have Chinese medicine, and then eventually you get to sort of homeopathy, a little bit later on, naturopathy, a little bit later on, allopathy. And then osteopathy obviously came after Mind Body Book, and then Freud afterwards. And chiropractic obviously was born out of osteopathy. So there is so that we see in time how things have shifted. The founder of homeopathy is Dr Samuel Hahnemann. And Samuel Hahnemann was a physician that just like 80 still, he decided that the treatments of the time, which were sort of mercury and ether and cutting things out and everything else was, were a little bit crude. So he thought that there might be a different way of treating patients without sort of causing so much issues, sort of side effects for them, he sort of lived around the same time as Edward Jenner and and if you appreciate at the time, vaccines were sort of giving small amount of something to the body to stimulate the immune system, had become The philosophy of the time. They were both obviously before Louis pastor so so the bacterias and the viruses and all that, although people knew that there is infection, the causative agents were still not out there. And so there was not a lot of information. So when we talk about Hanuman, we talk about certain things he said at the time that were very important because he didn't have access to this future information that came. The origins of homeopathy are where Hanuman, as a medical translator in a book, read that Countess of sin shown was treated for malaria with Peruvian bark, and her fevers and chills got better. So he decided, like any other good doctor at the time, that he's going to treat himself, sort of give himself Peruvian bark and see what happens. And that we call a brew approving. Because he did that, and he figured out that as he takes the Peruvian bark, he starts having fevers and chills. So we call this section of medicine proving, which means giving someone a dose of a natural substance. And if you remember back in the days, we used to sit down next to the patient and say, Oh, now he has now he's sweating, and now he's breathing fast, and now his blood pressure is high or stuff like that. So that we call proving and so that you know a little bit more about Provings have been described as important in the development of clinical trials due to their early use of simple control groups, systematic and quantitative procedures, and some of the first application of statistics in medicine. So Provings are very important. And then after proving in homeopathy, comes experimentation. That means, then we experiment to see if that natural substance in homeopathic dilution, does it actually work or not? Because, you know, we can say anything can be not can be diluted. But the question is, okay, now you got it diluted by does it do the job that you are expecting it to do? So if a natural substance in nature gets proven and then we do experimentation on it and it actually works. That means, works in curing or treating the symptoms, we should say, in homeopathy. Then it makes it to material medica, which is the compilation of the homeopathic all the homeopathic medications that give us, you know, the sort of we go back to as homeopaths and look at them to figure out a person's constitution that we're going to talk about, as well as other homeopathic medications that we use, I'm going to give you a little bit about Constantine herring. He's very important. Obviously, you guys have heard of the Law of Cure. Those are all come from Constantine herring. He was a very interesting individual. If you guys get a chance, look him up a little bit and study his past. He's an amazing person, but eventually he knew medicine. He has a very long history with homeopathy for a specific reason. And if we ever get a chance, I'll give you the the story of that as well. He decides that he is a homeopath, and, and he proves to himself that homeopathy is amazing and, and so he becomes a homeopath, and he is the person who brought homeopathy to United States, and he is actually the person who's done a lot more Provings than Hanuman. So he's done 91 Provings in his time. And Hanuman, the founder of homeopathy, actually has done 46 herring was the first person to use nitroglycerin for headaches and heart conditions 30 years before it wasn't used in conventional medicine. And obviously conventional medicine used the Provings of homeopathy at the time to sort of find nitroglycerin and use it for the specific cardiac reasons and everything else that it was used for. Later on, at a certain point we had, we started having a homeopathic hospital in the United States 1833 and in 1835 herring founded the first homeopathic institution in Pennsylvania, North American Academy of homeopathic Healing Arts, which later merged with the Hanuman Medical College of Philadelphia, which was a homeopathic school there, herring and his students treated over 50,000 patients a year and trained a total of 3500 homeopaths. At a certain point, we have 22 homeopathic medical schools, including Boston University, Stanford and New York Medical College, and 100 homeopathic hospitals and over 1000 homeopathic pharmacies at the time. Once you go to to sort of look these tabulations, which are amazing, you look and you see that something like cholera, the mortality of homeopathic hospitals were 11% allopathic hospitals were 63%

Speaker 2  28:46
another cholera, you see 7% as opposed to 31% and then another one, you see 33% as opposed to 66% typhus was very important as well. Mortality was 2% and in allopathic hospitals, it was 13% so. So there was a at the time, homeopathy was a very important part of our medical system, and for that reason, the statue of Samuel Hanneman, the founder of homeopathy is located in Washington, DC. This memorial, well, skip through that, but the memorial was designed by Congress as a tribute to his influence on alternative medicine, making it one of the few monuments in the United States dedicated to a medical figure. So at the time, we sort of knew homeopathy, and we knew Hanuman as an amazing person and homeopathy as an amazing part of medical treatment. However, with certain reasons and issues, things changed, and I don't want to get into that. Obviously, we can get into it if you want at a certain point, but let's say homeopathy sort of lost its its mojo for a while, but we are bringing it back, and I've made it one of my passions and sort of goals, to bring it to medical sort of institutions and to see how I can grow it back to what it was homeopathy. Homeo stands for similar and pathos stands for suffering. These are obviously diluted substances. Find found in nature, which stimulate the physiology. One thing to know is, supplements are not homeopathic. Obviously, your patients come and say, I'm using homeopathy. And then you ask them, What are you using? And they say, turmeric. Turmeric is not homeopathic because it's used in its natural doses. There are three principles of homeopathy, the law of similars, like cures, like the law of highly diluted substances. The natural substances have to be highly diluted and that illness specific to the individual. The Law of similars have been sort of referred to in medicine by Hippocrates, which is the father of Western medicine, by Paracelsus, which is the father of pharmacology and botany, and by Avicenna, who's the father of Persian medicine. So these people actually have referred to using similar substances to cure the effects. Highly diluted natural substances are what we use. Obviously, vaccines are sort of high diluted, you know, sort of viral particles. And then if we think about immunotherapy, like if someone has allergies to cats, obviously what we do is we give them small amounts of cat dander and slowly get their immune system to get to a point where it can respond properly to cat dander. So that is also used in nature a lot. I mean, in medicine a lot. Then we have which is very important with homeopathy, illness is specific to the patient. When a patient comes and talks about headache, and I love this picture specifically because of that is because a patient can tell us that my head is hammering, or it feels like they're drilling in my head, or it's exploding, or it's expanding, or it's tight, or It's throbbing. So so they give us different sort of ways of describing their headache. If, if you have ever worked in an urgent care or even in obviously, regular practices, if you use, let's say that night you're seeing three, let's say five sinus infections and and so the first one comes in and says, you know, I have sinus infection started with sore throat. I have green nasal discharge, and I have a little bit of cough, and that's that. And you give them their medication, your medication of choice, then somebody else comes in and says, Well, my nose is completely clogged. I can't breathe out of it. Nothing is coming out of it. I have pressure in my head. I bend down to tie my shoes, and it's throbbing, all the symptoms of and signs of sinusitis. Again, you know, you give them the medication of choice, and then a third person might come in and say, I have pain in my teeth and I have bloody discharge from my nose and sore throat. And again, you know you do your exam and you figure out that it sinus infection. So in essence, illness is specific to the patient in in allopathy, we do or an osteopathy, obviously, we do a sort of nosological diagnosis, and we go from sinusitis to the medication of choice. In homeopathy, it's different. In homeopathy, we're looking at the patient who has the illness, the patient who has the disease or has fallen ill, and we try to find a natural substance in nature, then it that in its natural doses will create those specific symptoms. There are different types of homeopathy, there is Classical Homeopathy and there's clinical homeopathy. In Classical Homeopathy, homeopaths prescribe only one medication for the totality of the symptoms, symptomatology of the patient. And there are definitely lengthy interviews, sometimes two, two and a half hours to figure out exactly what homeopathic medication. There are more than 1000 medicines. Some of the medications are anecdotal. Obviously, in clinical homeopathy, there is a homeopath will prescribe more than one medication. So if we have a patient who has sinusitis and has other issues, we might give them a medication for sinusitis. We might also give them other medications for other things to be treated. There are around 300 medications, and most of the medications are based on toxicology and pharmacology. So it's a little bit easier, and that's why I chose clinical homeopathy. Number one, it's easier to to study. It takes. It still takes time, but it takes less time to learn. However, you have 300 medications, and a lot of the medications are what we know because we have taken pharmacology before, so it becomes easy to figure out what each of these medications do. Not to say if is classical or clinical, better or worse. I don't not. There's no judgment here. It's just the the fact that sometimes people will tell you, Oh, I went to a homeopath and it took two and a half hours, and then they come into my office, and in 1015, minutes, or sometimes half an hour, I have their answer. So there is a difference in the way we interview the patients. There's a difference in the medications that we use. So there's just difference, but the essence of homeopathy, which is like curing, like using the diluted natural substances, and knowing that it's the patient that has the disease and not the other way around, is still the basis of both principles. As I mentioned in clinical homeopathy. Substances have to be pharmacologically active and have toxicology and they have to be very diluted doses. So I will send out this challenge and and hopefully you guys can can figure this one out. Can you name some pharmacologically active natural substances that people use on a daily basis? And your answer, I know it's going to be one of you guys will pick out coffee, because whenever I give this lecture, someone usually picks out coffee. I'm a fan of coffee. I can drink as much coffee as you think I can, and I enjoy it, and I love it. Coffee has certain so when we look at a homeopathic medication, any medication you guys, most of you are familiar with Arnica. Some of you guys are familiar with other medications, like APIs and lakis and other homeopathic medications, but when we look at homeopathic medication medication, we're looking at the natural components, the chemistry, the chemicals that are in there, and kofia, or coffee has caffeine, trigonal, nail lean and theobromine, so its composition is close to theophylline with one methyl group difference. So so we can appreciate that the obviously, we have tried coffee and we know what it does in our body, but we can also appreciate that is close to one of the medications that we have pharmacology for.

Speaker 2  38:05
And I always ask this question, and I say, What happens if you, if you drink one cup of coffee and and you all say, Well, I get a little bit, you know, I get focus. I can focus. Or some of you guys might say, I wake up. And then what happens when you take two cups of coffee and you say, Well, I can focus now and I can get things done. Three cups of coffee, I get hyperactive, and I get my work done, right? So this is sort of a therapeutic window we want to say for coffee. And then I say, How about four and five and six and seven? And then you say, Well, you know, once it gets to seven, there is what? There's anxiety, there's headache, there is rapid heartbeat, there is trembling of the hands of the you know, I'm trembling. I have to urinate a lot. I get acidic, digestive abnormalities. And, you know, I if, it's close to the time of sleep, I won't be even be able to sleep, because my mind is rushing and running and my body is physically active and I can fall asleep. So that would be the toxicology of coffee when we get to that point. And obviously, the more coffee, the toxicology gets worse. But so we use a kofia cruda as a homeopathic medication for these specific symptoms that we talked about that coffee produces, which is anxiety, agitation, myoclonia, vertigo in some people, tachycardia or extra systole, trembling of fingers, cramp of calves, polyuria, gastric acidity, migraines or headache, prolific flow of ideas, over excitement, insomnia, physical hyperactivity and hypersensitivity to noise. So these are, this is sort of the pharmacology and toxicology of coffee, but so in diluted forms, we use coffee to get rid of these specific symptoms, and that's what we call like cures like or homeopathy. So we're getting these pathos which are the suffering, let's say the over excitement, physical hyperactivity, which brings some of your patients, or some of your parents bring your their kid, and they say, you know, the nurse of the school has asked me to take my child to psychiatrist and get evaluated because he's over excited. He has prolific flow of ideas, and he has physical hyperactivity, and he doesn't he can't sit down in class, right? So one of my major medications for patients who come in with this symptomatology is kofia, because it actually covers all of that. The other time I use it is when, you know, they have insomnia, and insomnia is because they're, you know, they got a bike and they're excited and they can't fall asleep, or they're going to Disneyland or Disney World, and they're excited. They can't fall asleep. Or with adults when, you know, they go to bed and they have this flow of ideas, that means they think and think and think and you know, they can't, they can't sort of quiet their mind to fall asleep. COVID, crude, is a major medication that I use for that reason. So up to now, the point was to sort of bring you with a sort of to what homeopathy does, how homeopathy works, and everything else. And now I want to sort of start talking about the idea of constitution. I'm going to start with some information on temperaments. And temperaments are something that sort of made it to homeopathy. But based on these four elements that you guys probably have heard of, the blood, the phlegm, the yellow bile and the black bile. And they've given it traits. They've given it health strengths and health weaknesses and so on and so forth. And this is some this is what some people think is a part of homeopathic constitution. However, temperaments have been there since the ancient times. Hippocrates used them. GALEN used them. Abyssina, the father of Persian medicine, used them. So temperaments are nothing new. And remembering that homeopathy started, you know, with Hanuman in the 17, 1800s so there. So this was sort of going way back and and we don't think there is any relation to the two when we talk about constitution, and I'm going to talk about constitution from a clinical homeopathy perspective, because, as I mentioned, constitution in Classical Homeopathy is all the symptoms that A person has and they behave, behavior and their emotions and their likes and dislikes and modalities, which we call aggravate, aggravation modalities and and exacerbation modalities. So Classical Homeopathy brings all of that into account. We separated a little bit just so that we can have a little bit more understanding of each person. So in clinical homeopathy, we either go by elimination patterns, or we go by morphology and connective tissue, which we call constitution and or with sensitive type. And when we look at a patient, a person in front of us, we can actually see all of these things. And so it's not that we only use one or the other. We can actually see all of these things in one person, based on everything that I'm going to discuss with you right now. So elimination, obviously, the most important, the most critical physiological process in the human body, is elimination, because it ensures the waste products and toxins and metabolites, metabolite byproducts are removed. It prevents toxic buildup, maintenance of acid base balance, regulation of electrolytes and fluids, removal of metabolic waste, carbon dioxide removal and immune detoxification, digestive waste elimination, hormonal metabolite clearance, skin detoxification, and it also supports microbiome balance. So elimination is important. Obviously, it's it's given a lot of credit in homeopathy, our elimination organs or tissues are gastrointestinal, genitourinary, pulmonary, dermatology, skin and obviously the mucous membranes. When we look at Elimination patterns, we have multiple elimination patterns set forth by Hanuman. So he talked about a soric reactional mode, a psychotic reactional mode and a syphilitic reactional mode, tuberculinic reactional mode and other reactional modes came later. There are tuberculinic reaction on mode is, is a mode in the United States and Europe. I know that in India, they use more than this. There's more elimination patterns that they use, but we sort of suffice to this for knowing that the first the top three were, were the reactional modes that Hanuman himself talked about, and tuberculinic was sort of added later on. So I'm going to explain sore, psychotic, syphilitic reactional mode, and then I'm going to go and and talk about tuberculinic reactional mode, which is actually a subset of soric reactional mode, the first one, so the first one we call soric psychotic is not psi, Psy, obviously it's Sy and then syphilitic, so going to these elimination patterns. Oh, and then is there a relationship between the four temperaments and the reactional modes of homeopathy. I think some authors have tried to combine and sort of make references to these. But in essence, when we talk about Hanuman, Hanuman talked about miasms, and he put Sora psychosin and syphilis as the abnormalities that one could get. Sora at the time they thought that issues are related to either scabies, gonorrhea or syphilis. So soric was the abnormalities. Obviously, these are miasms back in the day, this thought process is no longer there, but the we have noticed that the characteristics of individual constitutions have stayed the same. So Hanuman talked about Sora for scabies, psychosin for gonorrhea and syphilis, or syphilis for syphilis and but in essence, he always said that individualization is important, and no one is supposed to be pushed into one specific

Speaker 2  47:56
constitution or one specific miasm, and you should look at an individual purely as an individual, but if you can find a chronic reactional mode, it will only help you more with that specific patient. I'm going to start with the soric reactional mode. In soric reactional mode. So going back to elimination, there, there's two two pathways. There is either we eliminate or the second pathway, which will come later, which is psychotic reactional mode. That would be the pattern where elimination has become either blocked or has stopped. So if we eliminate fast, we're talking about patients who, you know, they go to a restaurant, come back, they have gastroenteritis, the bacteria that you know maybe was in the food comes out, goes away, and we're done. Or they get a sinus infection. They do the treatment, and sinus infection goes away. So it is almost a rapid and acute thing where you get exposed to something. Body says, Okay, now I gotta use one of these elimination pathways to get rid of it. The body uses the elimination pathway and gets rid of the offending agent. So it's a pattern of elimination based on the use of elimination pathways that we discussed so it would be gastrointestinal. They'll get a diarrhea, as I said, a vomiting or gastroenteritis, and then it goes away. Genitourinary, they might get UTIs. They might get herpes, yeast infection, fungal infections, kidney stones, same are considered sore in home, in clinical, clinical homeopathy, because kidney stones come and they eventually go pulmonary. They have a cough, they get asthma attacks, it comes and then eventually it goes away. Dermatology, they get acne, molluscum, herpetic lesions or contact dermatitis on the mucous membranes. They get sinusitis, they get hay fever, they get vasomotor afflictions, or anything that comes and again leaves the body. So there is a resolution of the issue. Although there are stages, there is the prodrome stage where they get exposed to it. There's an inflammatory stage where the body starts, you know, dealing with the offending agent. There's infection. There can be heat or pyrexia. If it's an infection, a local infection or a systematic systemic infection, there is they can be exudation or discharges there. And then there's a convalescence stage. And then at a certain point, there is resolution. So so we know how long flu lasts, and what the symptoms are, sinusitis, UTI, so we know all of those things, and we can sort of set them into these stages. The most important thing is that the patient gets back to a normal pattern of health, the issue completely resolves, and the patient returns the original state of health. So soric uses the elimination pathway to push things out, and then we're back to normal. There is alternation of eliminate elimination pathways. That means this patient can have asthma, and then, you know, a month later, two months later, they can have a diarrhea. Two Three months later, they can have sinus side. So you see that they go from, let's say, asthma, which is the lungs, then they go to digestive and then they go to mucous membranes or ENT and then they go to genitourinary, and they sort of get rid of so there is an alternation pattern. That means a person will not continuously have the same issue. They will sort of use different elimination pathways to get rid of issues. There can be a recurring pattern. Some of our patients will tell us, and they say, you know if every year around this time I get my sinus infection, or every season I get my migraine, or we have patients that say, every month with my period I get a herpes, or right after my period I get a yeast infection. Or every time around, every year around this time I get my allergies, my allergies, I get hay fever or something like that. So in soric reactional mode, there can be a recurring pattern. In some of the constitutional medications that we're going to talk about, there can be a recurring pattern. There's a slow recovery. That means you will see that as time goes on. You know, your patients started sinus infection or bronchitis with which was relieved by one antibiotic, and then next year, one antibiotic, and then three, four years later, they took one antibiotic, and then it lingered, and then they had to have another antibiotic. So you will see that now certain things, as time goes on, will have our patients telling us that, you know, things are lasting a little bit longer than they did before. It's it's sort of there a little bit longer, and then there is lack of good response to well indicated medications. As I mentioned again, your patient comes in and says, I had bronchitis, and one antibiotic used to do it, and now I need two rounds of antibiotic to get rid of it, and this year I needed three. And this is just becoming a little bit too much. So we know that as time goes on, the the pattern starts shifting just a little bit. So this was, this was our sort of soric reactional mode medication, which is a pattern of elimination based on elimination pathways. There's acute elimination. The patient always comes back to normal, and they use different pathways to eliminate our medications for soric reactional mode are sulfur serineum. Serineum itself is the homeopathic dilution of scabies. Our senecom album, I'm sorry that's not an L, it's an M, arsenical album, and Lycopodium, these are the medications that we use more, most often for soric reactional mode. I'll get to what each of these mean. Well, I'll get to what Lycopodium means as as so that you guys see what we mean by that. But I wanted to give you the name of some of the medications that we use with soric reaction unlock. So if you have John and Elizabeth and this is one year from January through December, let's say John will have in February, flu. In May, he will have hay fever. In July, he'll have a gastroenteritis. In September, he'll have an asthma attack, and then in November, he'll have a sinusitis. But every time in between he got his health back, goes back to normal, and nothing lingers around. Elizabeth will have herpes outbreak in March, and then bacteria, vaginosis in May, yeast infection in June, contact dermatitis in August, and cough in October. But again, after each of those, Elizabeth goes to being the happy person that she is that you can see in the on the slide. So that was the essence of soric reactional mode, a person gets an issue, the body eliminates the abnormality, and they go back to normal and life as usual. Now we're going to switch modes a little bit and talk about the psychotic reactional mode. And this is a pattern of blocked or stopped elimination, so just in your mind for a second, imagine that all the elimination pathways that I've told you if they get slowed down or if they get blocked, what are the things that can happen with one patient As you do that, I'll drink some tea. So it is based on an insult to physiology or the psyche. The insults can be injections, medications, hormones, pollutions, and the psyche can be stress or emotional trauma, so your patient can come. And here we also talk about the concept of etiology. In homeopathy, concept of etiology is very important in medicine. It is as well. We always ask our patient, we say, when did it start? After what? But I don't know if in medicine, we have a lot to do with after what. In homeopathy, we do once a patient comes in and says, Oh, it all started after I had my, let's say, vaccine. I started having, I don't know, some thyroid abnormalities, or my IBS got worse, or because they got too many injections, too many vaccinations. And their immune system got challenged a little bit. Or patients that we put on hormones, we have to be careful, because these are in homeopathy, considered foreign particles that we're introducing to the body medication. And you know, you know, we have some medications on. And you know, my pet peeve, and I've talked about this in in medical conferences, SSRIs. You know, we start a patient with an SSRI, and then we add another SSRI in 1015, years, because the first one is not working. And then eventually we add a

Speaker 2  57:56
sort of mood stabilizer, and then we have to give him something for sleep. So so we see that medication, and taking medication chronically and long term, is going to start changing our patients. It can change them to a psychotic reactional mode, being exposed to pollutions, being exposed to mold, to heavy metals and and other environmental toxins, obviously a reason why someone might get a psychotic reaction on abnormalities, too much stress, emotional trauma someone might get, might say, you know, right after my divorce, you know, three, six months after my divorce, I started gaining weight, and now I can't lose that weight anymore, right? So this is a for psychotic reaction on mode. There needs to be an insult. So all of us are, most of us are soric reaction on mode in nature, we have been born so Rick in nature, where we, you know, drink and cry and poop and we get sick, and we get a sinus we get an ear infection or tonsillitis. So things will come out, and then we go back to normal. But at a certain point in in one's life, something might change that direction of sore reactional mode and push them into a psychotic reactional mode. Psychotic reactional mode is slow and progressive. Changes in physiology and morphology happen slowly, without returning to a normal baseline so so patients do not come back to a baseline health anymore. They continuously get worse. Weight Gain is part of it, because remember, as you block the elimination pathways, what happens is Toxins will stay inside and the body will use sort of adding hydration and sort of cellulitis infiltration to sort of try to modify that, which does not happen, obviously. So weight gain is there, usually without thyroid abnormalities. Caloric restrictions does not decrease the weight. Exercise does not decrease the weight. This is your patient who comes and says, I look at water and I gain one one pound, right? So, but you've tested them, and there's nothing wrong. There's no hormonal abnormalities or anything else. And then eventually, cellulit infiltration starts first at the lower half the half of the body, and then eventually goes to the upper half of the body. Then you see benign, well, not then this. These can happen at any random sort of stage. It does. They don't have to be in this, the way I've written them down. There's also benign growth production of benign tumors, like warts, cysts, polyps, fibroids, something like BPH is considered a psychotic reaction on mode in homeopathy, and then eventually we get to chronic cataract mucous membranes. That means these are the patients that say I have chronic post nasal drip, I have chronic bronchitis with phlegm. I have chronic yeast infection, or I have chronic discharge vaginally, which does not get better, and it's continuously draining. So seems like it's a way of the body to get rid of things, and then eventually there is depressive tendency, because of the fact the nature of psychosis. The nature of psychosis is a person who was, who was, you know, healthy and good, and all of a sudden has gotten all these abnormalities. And I'll give you an example in a second. These are the medications that we use more often in psychotic reactional mode. Two oxidantalis metarhinum, which is the homeopathic dilution of gonorrhea, nitricham acidum, which is nitric acid, calcicum, Natrum, sulfuricum. These are the, the our main medications for psychotic reaction all mode. Now if, if we are looking at a psychotic reaction on mode, just so that you guys can see, let's say, in 2000 someone got something happened to them. They go through divorce. Or maybe I give you the example of one of my patients who had moved to California with the hopes of becoming an actress. And she was, you know, the model type, skinny and and tall and, and, you know, happy and, and so she came to California, she had an accident, and the other person lied. And because of that, she lost a lot of money, and then she lost a lot of different things, and her life just wasn't the same anymore. So after two years, she started gaining weight a little bit, and then the weight gain increased a little bit. And then after a while, she started having cellulite in her legs. And then the weight gain and the cellulite continued. She started getting bronchitis here and there, and having abnormalities. And then a little bit later on, all of that continued, and she started having rhinaria, and sort of a, eventually a post nasal grip. She started having warts and other abnormalities on the body, and eventually we figured out that she has gotten post nasal grip. She has chronic phlegm, she has cellulite, weight gain and uterine fibroids and the sort of you can appreciate that you know a person who was a model type, and now you know she gained 50 pounds in the whole time that you know before seeing me. And obviously, when you look at the you look at tests in this person, you see no abnormalities, no tired abnormalities or anything else. So this is psychotic reactional mode where a person starts putting on weight and cellulite and and sort of having benign growths and and warts and fibroids and and then having a chronic Qatar of mucus of one of the mucous membranes. It's a way of the body trying to get rid of things. But obviously now the elimination pathways have been blocked, and this body cannot eliminate as much as it should. So it sort of puts on everything else, and that creates a depressive tendency, sort of because when they look at themselves, you know, it's, it's completely they've completely changed. The other reactional mode that Hanuman discussed was syphilitic reaction on mode. Syphilitic reactional mode is important because a body that has syphilis, that's in the syphilitic reaction mode will destroy itself. So it's a destruction and dystrophy and laxity of tendons and ligaments. So you see, things are sort of getting worse and worse ulcers, and then ulcers get to necrosis. And then they usually complain of bone pain at night as well. This is one of the symptoms that they have, autoimmune conditions, bone deformities, cancers. So this is, this is sort of the syphilitic reaction on mode. It gets, it's a little bit worse than, obviously, a lot worse than the other two that you see. So in homeopathy, we use syphilitic reactional mode medications, but other treatment modalities are necessary because of the complexity and the amount of abnormality that this person has, obviously, you know, getting rid of an audio autoimmune condition, bone deformities or or necrosis and stuff like that. Some homeopathic medications work, but at a certain point this person needs a little bit more attention. So this is where we share a lot of our patients with allopaths and with other modalities, because that's the time that you know this homeo homeopathic medications might, might not be enough. Syphilitic reactional meds are the mercury medication. So you can appreciate what Mercury does in the body. If you know, we get exposed to mercury aurums, which are gold, we have couple of or medications, or metallicum and or myriadical florix, if we get we, you know, the side effects of having too much fluoride that those medications for us are considered syphilitic and syphilis, which is syphilis itself. So, so you can appreciate, you know, the pathophysiology of syphilis and everything that it does to our organs. That's what we're talking about when we talk about a syphilitic reaction on mode. So it's different than soric, and it's different than psychotic because of the fact that it destroys itself, it causes damage to everything. And you know, these are patients that need a lot of help. There is a more recent reaction on mode that Hanuman did not discuss.

Speaker 2  1:07:38
This reactional mode is called tuberculinic reaction on mode. Tuberculinic reaction on mode is a subset of soric reaction on mode. If you remember soric reaction on mode, it's the one that eliminates, uses the elimination pathways to eliminate so tuberculinic is an eliminator. Tuberculinic is actually a fast Eliminator, and I'll tell you what it means. They are hypersensitive to cold, they are tired, and they have a weak constitution. They're prone to more ENT infections and more often. So these are fast eliminators. That means, instead of, you know, the picture that you saw from John and Elizabeth, which was, you know, they get this, and it goes away, and they get that and it goes away. You get, you know, your your, your eight, nine year old who goes to school, let's say on Monday, comes home Tuesday, he or she is sick, and then has to stay home for a couple of days, and then goes back to school again, Monday, Tuesday, they're sick again. So this is a person who gets a lot of infections because of their weak constitution. They have lymphadenopathy, obviously, because of all the infections that they get, they're sensitive, they're nervous, they're anxious, and they're irritable, they're cold, they're sort of hyper sensitive to cold, which tells us that there might be some thyroid abnormalities. And sometimes, when we look at lab values in some of them, we see some thyroid issues. So tuberculinic reaction on mode is a subset of sortic reactional mode, so they use the same elimination pathways to eliminate it's just that they are more cold sensitive, they're tired, they're weak, they get infected a lot. They're sick all the time, and they have lymphadenopathy and so on and so forth. Sensitive, nervous and anxious and irritable. So as I talk about these things, maybe you know, a patient comes into mind, or sometimes, you know, like I and in, you know, we all have the medical student syndrome, where we look at something and we say, Oh, my God, maybe that's me. And so maybe you can put yourself into some of the one of these groups of soric, psychotic, tuberculinic or syphilitic as well, or someone who you might know might be them. Our main tuberculinic reactional mode. Medications are nature muriaticum, which is sodium chloride, sea salt, tuberculinum, which is from tuberculus, Pulsatilla, phosphorus, which is phosphorus, sulfur, iodatom, Arsenicum, iodate and Calcarea phosphorica, an example of this of tuberculinic reaction. Homo can be a three year old boy who has had four runs of antibiotic per year based on ENT infections, very cold, sensitive and weak immune system starts, then later on, starts having skin infections, digestive abnormalities, and so on and so forth. But so you see, instead of them having like, one infection a year or two infections a year, they say, you know, over the last year, this last three years, this patient has had 12 round of antibiotic. You can tell that this is a tuberculinic patient, because whatever comes into contact in their in their body, their soric, their Sora, or their elimination pathway is faster so, but they're also weaker. Their immune system is weaker, so they get infected faster and they have to eliminate faster. So that's why they're continuously sort of sick or recurring illnesses. If you like to know more about any of this, obviously, as I mentioned, CDH has an amazing course, because eventually we can get into it. And there's there's more. There's some mixed reactional modes, like sorotuberculinic reactional modes, and there are soropsychotic reactional modes and psychotic tuberculinic reaction so there are other modes and and if you remember earlier on, I mentioned that Hanuman said there's individual individualization. No one should be subject to be put in any of these modes. We just put them in these modes to figure out how that we can we can help them. We can help their physiology, and by giving them a proper medication from the lists that I showed you, we can help them. And the way we help them is we help them to have less often symptoms, and also when they have any of their symptoms or illnesses or eliminations, they have it less, you know, so the duration will be less. So we use homeopathic medication to make sure that our patients don't get to get antibiotics a lot. And, you know, anti hypertensives and anti this and anti that, you know, we try to use homeopathic medications as much as we can so we decrease the reliance of other medications. Because, as I mentioned, adding foreign particles to the body can affect the immune system, and the immune system or the body can go into sort of becoming a psychotic reaction on mode, which is not where we want to be. I'm going to switch gears. Now we talked about miasms and sort of physiology of the body. Now we're going to talk about morphology and connective tissue. This is another way of looking at a constitution, and in clinical homeopathy, we call this constitution. People are all either fluoric, phosphoric or carbonic. Again, mixed types are there as well, but the basic three groups are florex, phosphoryx and carbonics. Florex are the LAX ligaments, double jointed. These patients can be short and thin. There's asymmetry of the face and of the body. There's dystrophy of the skeleton. There's a scoliosis. When you look at their body, their x ray, there's excess doses. Look at their teeth, they're deviated. So these are the people we call double jointed so their their connective tissue is lax, and because of the fact that their connective tissue is lacks, they will have abnormalities as they go through life. And obviously Marfan or earlier downloads are homeopathically considered a floric constitution. Then we have the phosphoric constitution, which we which they have normal ligaments. They're tall and thin. They deal with some inflammation throughout their life, sinuses, digestive or lungs. They tire easily and but they're also active, and they get mood fluctuations, where, at times they're sort of hyper and doing things and getting things done, and other times they sort of need to sit down and relax. But their connective tissue is is normal. Then we have our carbonic or tight ligaments. This specific Constitution can be short and stocky. They can be heavy or obese. So you can appreciate as they age, they get sclerosis, because imagine, you know, your heart is beating against a aorta, which is very stiff the whole time because of the fact that the connective tissue are very tight. These are these are the people who can't touch their shoulders, can't bend down and touch their feet or the floor, because of the fact that their ligaments, the connective tissue is tight. So when we talk about constitution here, flouric, phosphoric and carbonic. We're talking about laxity of everything. We're not only talking about ligaments, of course the florex Will these are the kids who get a lot of sprains because their ligaments are lax as they grow up, but as they age. Imagine this is a person who eventually will have babies. And you know, you can appreciate the amount of force on the connective tissue of the vaginal walls and and sort of the digestive system and and the uterus itself. And you can appreciate that things sort of start moving. And these are the people who will have laxity. They'll have ptosis. They'll have issues with, well, not carbonic. Obviously carbonics are are tight ligaments. I'm talking about florex. So florex will have abnormalities where things are sort of a little bit or a lot too loose. So because of the laxity, they will have abnormalities. They can have vaginal prolapse or anything else, just because of the facts that that the connective tissue is too lacks, and then with carbonics, as I mentioned, the tightness of the ligaments is the problem. So they get their abnormalities because of tightness of ligaments. So these were the the way we look at a constitution based on morphology and based on

Speaker 2  1:17:19
body type. I'm going to go back to carbonics, carbonics with tight ligaments. These are, you know, you look at their teeth, it looks like it's the piano keys. They're so nicely cut and they're sort of square. You look at their x ray, you see the lumbar spine, you know, the vertebrae are square and really nice and put together. The carbonics are slow and methodical, and they're meticulous, like you give them something to get done, it gets done amazingly. It just gets done a little bit slower. And they're slower in sort of milestones as well as they age. You know, they walk a little bit slower, and they get their periods a little bit later in life, and and so on and so forth. So they're usually constipated because of this connective tissue tightness and stuff. So so when we look at a morphology or connective tissue, we sort of look at a person homeopathically, and try to put them in these three categories of floric, phosphoric and carbonic. And figure out if we can see their futures. We figure out if there's anything we can do so that in the future they don't have these specific abnormalities that we discussed. Another way of looking at the body now, or constitution now, is considered sensitive type. Sensitive type is very interesting and very important. It's based on three characteristics. There's physiological and pathophysiological susceptibilities, these behavioral and emotional tendencies and physical and morphological characteristics. What does this mean? That means maybe you guys have heard and if you have a homeopath friend, they might tell you, and they say, Well, I think you're Lycopodium, or I think you're Pulsatilla, or, I think, your sepia and all that means that there are certain physiological susceptibilities that, let's say, a sepia has, and also some pathophysiological tendencies that they have. So we can tell a sepia will have the specific issues like you know they will they will crave acidic food, but they will have digestive abnormalities, and they'll have constipation and so on. And so we know their pathophysiology. We also know their behavioral and emotional temperaments. We know that they are. They like to be left alone. They they they're people who don't want to be consoled and and they're in different as far as emotions and behaviors and and conversations are concerned. And they have a specific physical and more morphological characteristics. We know sepia are going to be a certain height, they're going to be darker, they're going to have sort of Chlo asthma. They're going to have, you know, specific smell to their body and all of that. So. So in homeopathy, a sensitive type, is a specific set of clues. That tell us what a patient is. For example, I'm going to sort of bring to your attention Lycopodium. Lycopodium is one of the soric reaction on Lord medications we see that when we look at the Lycopodium and we ask about when they were a kid, the parents will say, well, started having some eczema, there was some some vomiting that smelled like acetone, and and, and then there was some anorexia. And it seemed like as a kid, they had some tics and and then later on, when we get to know them, they complain of having, you know, flatulence and having bloating in the abdomen that is really bothering them. It's usually where they wear their belts, so it's below the navel. They can get red, sort of after the meals, and have distended abdomen whenever they have food. They feel tired right as soon as they have food, and they need to take a nap. And then if we wake them up from the nap, they're actually groggy, as opposed to other medications that we have, like NOx vomica, who will feel the same way after they eat and then they fall asleep, but once they get up, they're refreshed and they're ready to go. So Lycopodium will wake up and say, you know, you we always say, you never wake up a Lycopodium from their nap, because they're going to be groggy, they'll be angry, and you know that won't treat you well. There's pyrosis. They'll have migraine headaches. So we know Lycopodium will have migraine headaches, especially if they miss a meal. Lycopodiums have to eat breakfast, lunch and dinner at a specific time, like 8am 12 noon and then 6pm and that's how it's done if, if that is moved a little bit, they start having migraines and vision abnormalities. They'll have billiard dyskinesia and the thiasis. So they might have the diocese, they'll have duodenal ulcers and the urogenital system. There is reddish crystal, like sediments. There is lack of libido. There is, let us have the kidney so, so we see Lycopodium as a as a stone former because of the fact that you see lithiasis Almost in two you see it in two different organs there on the skin. They'll have all sorts of eruptions they'll have, but these, these skin abnormalities, will be very itchy. And what they like to do is they itch and itch so they sort of scratch it until it bleeds. And once it bleeds, it actually feels good, and they stop scratching it. So sometimes a Lycopodium comes to your your office, and you look at it complaining of skin abnormalities, and you see these streaks on on their skin. And then they say, Yes, I I itch. And then as soon as it's it bleeds a little bit, it feels better, so I stop. So those are sort of the physiological, pathophysiological tendon. Tendencies of lycopodiums. There's also behavior and emotional tendencies. And lycopodiums are shy internally, but they have a facade that is very proud and and authoritarian, very funny, very intellectual. They're, you know, they they have amazing memory, and they have, they know a lot with lycopodiums, though we can contradict them, because you contradict the Lycopodium and they get angry right away. They get upset. They actually get red in their face. You can see it right away. They get red, and they will have the last word, they'll sort of respond to you the way that they want to. Then we look at physical and morphological tendencies, like a podiums gray very early. They age. They age very quickly. And these are people who have, if we're talking about the morphology, the physical morphology, they'll have a round chest, like round torso. Their arms and their legs are going to be underdeveloped. They're not going to be very muscular, but the torso is going to be big. They're going to have gray hair early. They're going to have the sort of brown spots on their skin. They'll have skin that is very dry. They'll have sort of these skin flakes and stuff that comes off. They will have sometimes they'll have facial tics. You see it, and then they are prone to hay fever. So you might know a Lycopodium that stands there. And as they're giving lecture they're talking to you, they get into, get into sneezing fits, or they're they get rhinaria, and they can't stop the rhinaria sort of goes on and on and on. So, so they're prone to allergies, skin ENT, and you see, they're prone to digestive abnormalities and certain behavioral and emotional tendencies. So a sensitive type for us is a person, a an individual who has all of these things. That means, a lot of the times your homeopaths will tell you and say, I can read you like a book, and then they're absolutely right, because we know the homeopathic material medica of Lycopodium, I just gave you sort of a third of the what's written into Materia Medica, or a fourth of what's written in material medical. For Lycopodium, there is a lot more obviously, and sort of it gets a person who wants to know a little bit more to read the whole thing. But we know the sensitive type of a Lycopodium I just gave you sensitive type of sepia a little bit earlier on, there's sensitive type of NOx Monica's. There's sensitive type of phosphorus. And so based on

Speaker 2  1:27:10
what we see from a patient, what we ask from a patient, and their physiological, pathophysiological as well as emotional, behavioral, and when we see them in the office, a lot of the times, most of your homeopaths were good with sensitive types and good with Materia Medica within the first one or two minutes, three minutes of talking to someone, they know what your homeopathic type is, because we have all of these things sort of memorized, or have seen it multiple times in our patients. Sorry, so I thank you for those of you who have stayed with us so far the I'm going to review this one more time. So when we talk about constitution and clinical homeopathy, we're talking about three things, elimination pathways, Constitution, which is morphology and connective tissue and sensitive time. So if you remember, elimination was soric reactional mode, which were the eliminators, but always things come back to normal. Tuberculinux were a subset. Were just fast eliminators, the weaker people, weaker immune system, but those also always come back to normal. They just had more adenopathy. They were cold sensitive. Then we had psychotic reaction on mode, which is the pathways that don't eliminate properly. So they put things on like benign growths and warts, and eventually chronic Qatar and then depressive tendency because of that, and then civil, syphilitic reactional mode, which was the sort of destroyer of their body, so they basically destroyed their body. We had constitution based on connective tissue, which was flouric, who were double jointed, and laxity of tissue, laxity of bones, scoliosis, exostosis, phosphoric which were the normal sort of connective tissue, but complaining of inflammation, carbonics, who were really tight connective tissue, and they get that abnormalities because of the tight connective tissue. And then the sensitive type, which was based on looking at someone, based on their physiological, pathophysiological tendencies, behavioral and emotional patterns, as well as physical and morphological, the way they look, we can tell what sort of homeopathic type or sensitive type they are. So when we look at, when we say constitution in clinical homeopathy, we're looking at a lot of different things to figure out someone's true nature, and this is what we do. And based on what we find, we give them a medication, one of the medications I explained or I showed you earlier on, and those medications are supposed to help with elimination. They're supposed to help with the patient's physiology to like when we get a sensitive type medication to someone, let's say for a NOx vamika NOx vomikers are bossy and authoritarian and and they go to sleep, and they have a hard time falling asleep, and then they wake up around 3am and they have professional worries, and they have a hard time falling asleep, so they look at their cell phones for a while, and then they eventually fall asleep, only to wake up in the morning. And now they haven't slept. They need coffee and coffee, and then they get to work. Now they have headache. They need Tylenol. So we sort of know the pattern of a NOx foamica. And for that reason, we give them a homeopathic medication to decrease this pattern so that they rely less on medications, caffeine, alcohol and cigarettes, tobacco. These are the things NOx Monica's do a lot. They're sort of the Type A personality CEO of companies who are running multiple people so, so all of that we see, so when we give a sensitive type medication or a reactional mode medication, it is to help the person to have less often their abnormalities, and we're basically encouraging their physiology and their emotions change gear a little bit, you know, and I'll take your questions in a while. But you know that homeopathy has been regulated by FDA in this country since 1938 and we know that Homeopathics are not remedies. Homeopathic are medications. When you look at homeopathic medications, they actually have the you know, what's considered the FDA drug number on all of them. So I know a lot of us have been sort of used to calling homeopathy a remedy. Homeopathy is not a remedy. Homeopathy is a medication and should be treated as such. This was very interesting. I found recently, globally, medication related issues contribute to a significant number of deaths each year. The World Health Organization estimates that medication error causes at least 1.3 million deaths annually worldwide. In the United States, study of John Hopkins suggested that medical errors, including medication related issues, are a third leading cause of death, contributing to 250,000 to 440,000 deaths per year, and and a $42 billion annual sort of lost. But this is very interesting, because when we look, when we see a 1.3 million death annually worldwide, and if we go with the smaller number in United States, which is 250,000 this means 20% of the worldwide medication error death happens in United States. Just going to leave you with that for a second. It was interesting too. Now, deaths directly caused by homeopathic medications are extremely rare. As a matter of fact, they're so rare that I searched and I searched and I didn't find anything, primarily because homeopathic products are heavily diluted and often contain little to no active ingredients. However, harm can occur when people rely on homeopathy instead of proven medical treatments for serious conditions. So a lot of the times issues with homeopathy is because the patients delayed medical conditions, and one of the things that we teach in CDH is your homeopathic medications are yours to use as a first agent, as an agent to be combined with other medications and be used with other medications as needed. So if we have a patient who has chest pain that feels like heart attack, we'll send them to emergency serum. We don't try to give them cactus, which is the homeopathic medication of chest pain. So it's important to make sure that they don't have a heart attack first. And then, once all the results are done and we know that there's nothing going on with them, we can give them the homeopathic medication for symptom relief. If that's the case, not to say that homeopathic medications are not strong. Homeopathic medications are amazing. They have done certain things in my practice that no medicine could produce. And now days, I see a lot of patients coming to see me because medication failed, obviously, and there's they're there to see me, and one of the things that I use is homeopathy. So just to tell you that there is a lot of benefits with homeopathy, if used correctly, and you have no fear of causing any abnormalities to anyone, unless you really medically treat, treat them abnormally. There's a lot of research in homeopathy in recent years. If you remember, when we say illness specific to the individual, it makes it really hard for a double, blinded study, because, as homeopaths, we have to know the symptoms of the patient to give them the correct medication. There is 20 sinusitis medication in homeopathy, we can choose between the two and say one is better than the other one. That doesn't make sense in homeopathy at all. However, because of the fact that we have other ways of doing research, nowadays, we have more research coming out. Now we can look at nanotechnology and all these other things that give that's giving us a lot of information. This was one of the recent studies, epi three. This was done with 8559 patients. And this was patients sort of going to GPS, going to conventional medicine, going to MX, which is a mix of GP and homeopathy, and going to homeopathic physicians alone. So so they a lot of doctors involved. Obviously, you can see a lot of patients involved. And this was a cross sectional study in musculoskeletal disorders, upper respiratory tract infections and sleep disorder and anxiety and depression. And for most of these things, they showed that two things. Number

Speaker 2  1:36:53
one, the patients who went to homeopaths, I'm sorry, the patients who went to GPS, who were also homeopaths, did better than the other groups, patients that went to homeopathic groups and homeopath and GPS, who did homeopathy use less medication, had the same, same outcomes. They only had less medication side effects. This is another one, homeopathy research for back pain. This was a two year follow up study, and this one showed the severity of the diagnosis and complaints, showed Mark, Mark and sustained improvement. Quality of life improved accordingly. The use of conventional treatment and health services decreased markedly. The number of patients using low back pain related drugs was half of the baseline. So you see that with homeopathic medications, you can actually do a lot of good with your patients. Arnica. Everyone knows it's important to sort of see this research on Arnica. This was on gene expression in a human macrophage cell line, and it basically showed us how what we had for Arnica, where you see a lot of the plastic surgeons, you see a lot of surgeons actually use Arnica because it regulates inflammation, it causes tissue repair, and it causes angiogenic activity, so so it really heals the area, if we want to use that word properly. So it's important to obviously, you guys know Arnica, I want, I'm slowly going to bring this to an end. We'll give you a couple of concepts. Number one, I practice homeopathy and osteopathy and family medicine at a time, and I was working at urgent cares emergency rooms. But we always have to remember that there's limitations with anything. There's limitation with osteopathy, there's limitation with homeopathy, there's limitation with medicine, there's a limitation. Name it. So I'm not trying to make you guys think homeopathy is the cure all and or it's the only way to go. It's one way to go. It's one way to help your patients. It's a way of giving your patients medications that will not cause side effect, and eventually, if it doesn't work, you will give them the allopathic medication. So if any of you guys are interested in knowing more about homeopathy, to or to take courses on homeopathy, you can please contact me directly. But again, one of the reasons I'm going to go back for a second. One of the reasons that homeopathy lost its mojo in United States was because a group of people who were not doctors, and I don't mean it in a bad way. I mean they were really didn't even know medicine. Nowadays we have nurse practitioners in our classes, we have physician assistants in our courses, and DOS, MDS and but there were people who were not even of a professional background that learned homeopathy and started promising people the world and that failed. Because these people failed. They didn't know what they were talking about. They didn't know the consequence of cancer, the consequence of heart attack. They the consequence of infections. So that's one of the reasons homeopathy failed. The other reason was certain homeopathic doctors, one of them called Kent, obviously, sort of combined homeopathy with spirituality and adding sort of spirituality to the mix. Spirituality is always part of life, part of healing, and we know the power of prayer. The studies are there. Look at Joe Dispenza and all these other amazing people who have used this spirituality. But I think at the time, the terms he used and the the way he tried to explain homeopathy through energies was wrong. Nowadays we have more information. We have research. There is a research by Dr Luke montanier who showed homeopathy working through frequencies. So, so we can talk about those terms, but now more specifically and more professionally, because they're all done by research. But at the time, it's lost its module because of those specific reasons, and some people say because ama was formed to put down homeopathy. I haven't done a research on that to see if that was the case or not, but it doesn't really matter. We want to bring back homeopathy. So again, if you're interested about the course, CDH is where I teach for and it's an amazing course, you know, it's divided into modules, teaching you the best parts of homeopathy so that you can use it the next day in your office, I have some homeopathic information on my YouTube. YouTube is body of harmony. We've done a bunch, and then we stopped for a while, but now we've hired somebody else to help us do more videos. So we're going to continue doing more videos. If you like to know any specific things with homeopathy. You'd like me to make a video. Please do tell me and and I will create that for you. But you can go to YouTube and find some more information about the lectures. I think I have a lecture on acne, on anxiety and insomnia, low back pain. I have a combined low back pain of osteopathy and homeopathy, that's really good. So those are sort of worth looking at. Samuel Hanneman said the highest ideal of Cure is the speedy, gentle and enduring restoration of health by the most trustworthy and least harmful way. And I think this is really important to keep in mind. I want to thank

Speaker 1  1:43:02
Dr Bill. We want to thank you that was fabulous.

Speaker 2  1:43:07
And Dr halasa for giving us CMEs and supporting us, you guys, and thank you all for staying with me through the end of this. If you have any questions, I'm always there my information. I'll take your questions now, but this is, this is my information. If you want to contact me directly and ask me questions, please do.

Speaker 1  1:43:27
Okay, that was outstanding. One question here, can you name any classic compendiums of homeopathy, you know, some of the, some of the like, like, you know, you know, the tried and true books that you use,

Speaker 2  1:43:47
oh, the books on homeopathy. I use, specifically our homeopathic material, medical, which is done by CDH, just because of the fact that it's a clinical homeopathy, that means there's Toxicology and Pharmacology and it's been vetted multiple times. That means the course goes the the material medical goes through the teachers that teach homeopathy with CDH, and then we cross out things that don't work anymore, or things that we haven't seen working anymore and and things that we see have worked, we actually highlight in the book. We sort of put it in bold faces so, so it's a lot of a lot of good information for that. We also have couple of other we have a lot of different books, but you know, like if someone wants acne or if someone wants menopause or something else. We have specific books directed at those things. If there's anything specific, please email me and I'll find it. Find the best book for you and send it to Okay.

Speaker 1  1:44:51
That was okay. That was great. Dr Nario, do you have any online Yes,

Speaker 3  1:45:01
Yes, doctor. Pam, that was an awesome lecture. Thank you so much for that. I think when you were pertaining to in relation to closing out of the homeopathic Foundation was part of that, it would be the Flexner Report, and that was actually one of the reasons why homeopathic schools were kind of eliminated as they, of course, wanted to divert everything towards the allopathic standards. And, yeah, again, I'm also a practitioner of what you're doing, and this is such a great input that you gave. And in terms of, this is a different look at constitutional homeopathy, because we, I was trained towards the classical constitutional approach, and Dr wolf also is one of the better ones to vouch for homeopathy in terms of his own practice. But one of the questions that comes to my mind is, there are classical homeopaths, and also they're like modern homeopaths now in terms of the conflict of using single remedies versus multiple remedies on a patient. So what is, what is your your stand on that

Speaker 2  1:46:11
there is no the whole point is to appreciate the patient as a totality and to appreciate them as an individual who has the illness. So So an individual who was healthy and happy at a certain point of physiology was working fantastically, and then all of a sudden, that physiology is no longer working the way it's supposed to. So it doesn't matter if we're giving one single remedy or we're giving three remedies and and we're accomplishing as far as, as long as and if, if we, if we look at the history, we see that Hanuman himself never gave one remedy, or call It remedy, because you did one medication and then kept that one medication for four months. Hanuman gave medications and brought back his patients every three or four days and changed them sometimes, right? But obviously he had 46 medications to work with. And now you know, Classical Homeopathy has more than 1000 medications to deal with. So just to know that we we do not need to sort of force patients into a specific category. We can always bring them back, redo our consultation, redo our interview, we can and come up with the best medication at the time, because, as as you've noticed you give someone a sinus medication, and in two or three days, they don't have the bloody discharge anymore. So now the medication has changed. It's not going to be exactly the same thing. The medication needs to be changed if we're talking about the constitution. So those are acute if we're talking about the constitutional medication of a patient, as long as you can get closest to, because we're always getting close to, there's no one who's going to be 100% Lycopodium or 100% anything else, but we're trying to get as close as we can to a natural substance that will encourage their body to be better. And as long as you can do that, if you can get it done with one medication, or you can get it done with three medications. I think you're still are doing fantastic with your patient,

Speaker 3  1:48:26
right? Well, one of the theories that I have heard of the reason of multi therapy would be more of the toxicities of the newer world that we live in, so which actually kind of makes sense to me, that the single remedies worked before just because of the exposure is not as intense or multiple, multi factorial, but now with multi remedies that also can now factor in the evolution of the world, where we have different toxicity, as you mentioned, and also different sources. But yeah, that that actually makes, makes, makes perfect sense.

Speaker 2  1:48:58
Yeah, we were at a homeopathic International Congress. I think it was the fourth, it was the Fourth International Congress in in France. I'm forgetting which city doesn't matter. So one of the things that they they showed and and it was interesting to see, is that now, because of the fact that the soil has changed and because of the fact that we're exposed to more environmental toxins, we are seeing more psychotic reaction on more patients than we were seeing before. So we know that all of these toxins and everything else is affecting us, and obviously we know it in functional medicine, and we know how to deal with it, but to see that there are more patients who are psychotic reaction on mode nowadays than before, it's very interesting,

Speaker 3  1:49:48
right? And also, as you mentioned a while ago, that reassessment is key here, that whenever you give a remedy, then the patient does shift to a different for example, Constitution. And as you mentioned a while ago when you described like a podium, you basically, kind of describe also signs of low testosterone on a patient, like when they actually are less muscular, they look older. So that's why now, when you, as you mentioned in your practice a while ago, it does, does make sense that there are actually is a time and place for integrative interventions that are non homeopathic to basically help the patient, because there are straight homeopaths out there that are kind of against this mixture. So I'm not saying against, but maybe they still stick with their their fundamentals. But in your experience, because that's also one of the questions of our viewers here, what are you how do you see success in mixing the allopathic remedies with homeopathy? And how do you sequence that? Do you finish one first and then insert the other, or, or the same?

Speaker 2  1:50:52
Well, a lot of the time, if, if, let's say someone, and it depends on the case as well how acute it is and how bad it is. You know, you have someone who walks in with a urinary tract infection and you're worried that it's going to become a pyelonephritis. You're going to, I'm going to give them the homeopathic medications for symptoms of burning and and, you know, fevers and everything else, nausea or anything else that they have, but they need their medication to make sure it doesn't become pyelonephritis, right? So it's the acuteness of the patient. And then you have somebody else who walks in and they have, you know, something else, like a sinus infection. You don't treat sinus infection for two weeks. It goes away on its own. What if we pour homeopathic medications on it, the proper homeopathic medications on it. And remember, whenever we talk about homeopathy, using homeopathic medications, we're also a educating our patients with environment. That means you tell them, take the vitamin C and the garlic and the onion, and, you know, wash your nostrils so you bring about the environment that gets rid of sinus infection. So we will have that. And why don't we try that for a while? And if, if it really failed, I prescribed, I ordered the medication to the pharmacy for my patient, and I said, pick it up if, within three days, the homeopathic medication didn't do the job. Take your medication. Take your antibiotic. Why not? You know, if I caught the chance of you taking antibiotics three times a year to once a year or none a year, that's good. I've done something impressive, because now in my books, it says this is a patient who used to get four antibiotics a year, and now, for the past five years that they've been with me, they've had no antibiotics. That's impressive.

Speaker 3  1:52:51
Do you do overlap, like when they're on homeopathic remedy, then you do an allopathic remedy on top? Yes,

Speaker 2  1:52:57
sometimes I do that, and then, depending on certain allopathic medications we want to stop. We start a homeopathic medication, give it time to work, and then slowly get rid of the allopathic medication. So it depends each person is different based on, based on what they're going through, right?

Speaker 3  1:53:17
It was interesting how you presented miasms because, uh, there's, of course, there's some variation in your explanation, but I really can always remember my as in the something that was passed on genetically, even even in generations, in terms of why you're actually getting that susceptibility, but in relation to your explanation there, that definitely is another good approach to view it in relation to treatment. And I think one of the questions here also is that I don't know if they're asking for your cheat sheet here, but I don't know if you've seen these programs wherein you punch in constitutional symptoms, it will generate a remedy for you. They're asking if you ever use that or any recommendations in terms of those programs or algorithms?

Speaker 2  1:54:03
Sure, I'm going to answer that, but I'm also going to touch on your point on my isms. Hanuman also said mayasms are inherited, and when we look at even a when we do our homeopathic interview, we always ask family history, because we think So Rick parents will produce soric offsprings, and psychotic parents will have a higher chance of having a psychotic offspring. So we know that, especially as Hahnemann described it, it is a genetic and environmental factor, sort of acquired factor that comes together. So even at his time, and the reason I, you know, I give him a lot of props, is because at his time, before, you know, people figure out what's gonorrhea and chlamydia and syphilis, he knew the difference between and he was telling people how different they are from one another, as well as talking about illnesses being genetic as well as acquired. So just for him to think about that at that time and age, I really appreciate it your point about repertories. Repertories are really hard to deal with because you type in all this information, and at the end of it, they'll ask you more question, and then they'll come up with multiple medications, and you still have to go back to material medical and figure out and see which one of these medications are the ones that you're going to use for your patient. So in clinical homeopathy, we try to know the basics of each medication so that we can, almost by memorization, bring about a group of medications and then go towards it. So instead of putting it in repertory, we put it in our brain or memory sort of pathways and try to cross link things together and figure out what's going

Speaker 3  1:56:04
on, right? Just this is probably from your last slide. Um, you mentioned about the homeopathy being a medication. So I guess they were asking, how come this is not something that needs a prescription? Or, basically, can you, because you can, like, for example, your product that you presented, I think you're promoting, you can get it over the counter. I mean, that's maybe a question out of curiosity, and maybe related to your last

Speaker 2  1:56:32
slide, some medications actually need prescription. Meta rhythm, so right now to break your line, um, how? Homeopathic digestion of coke, which is coca, certain medications definitely need opium, I think, right? Opium, exactly. So these are the ones that actually need prescription and is they're not going to be out there. However, when homeopathy, when HP, us, homeopathic pharmacovi of United States was put together. Homeopathy was considered at the time because of the fact that it was very diluted as something that could be used as a food, if I remember correctly, and therefore it was over the counter like any other over the counter medication over the counter medication, right? So, like your Tylenol, and, you know, sort of the rest of the medications that are over the counter. A lot of the homeopathic medications are over the counter because of the fact that they have no side effect. The ones that you see over the counter have no side effects, basically, in the dilutions that they are, if they get into the mother tincture, or the less diluted, they will have an effect because, you know, they will show effect more. So that's why a lot of the medications, homeopathic medications, are over the counter. Just because, traditionally, since the 1900s they have been over the counter, right? And then, but the rest of them need prescription. And those are not the ones that you'll find anywhere on Amazon or anywhere else,

Speaker 3  1:58:10
right? I think mostly no sods are, are the ones that needs prescription. And then here's an interesting question, what are your thoughts on these? There are products out there that are basically claiming it's COVID 19, homeopathic remedies. Do you have any experiences with this?

Speaker 2  1:58:31
I don't have any experience with it. We used certain medications because our group, CDH, you know, we, we sort of looked at all the cases around the world, because, as I mentioned, CDH is in multiple countries in Europe and and United States and Canada and and we noticed that the medications that we use more often were mercury. Is salubulis. We use Argentum nitricum. We use phosphorus a lot and and so we actually had a list of all homeopathic medications used specifically for COVID. Our Seneca album, album was another one. Just see me was another one. So if you remember one of the slides that I showed showed that a natural substance has to first be experimented. Experimentation is COVID. We get COVID, we know the side effects or the symptoms, then it has to be so that was the proving. And then the experimentation is where you give it and see if it works. That means your patient who has abnormal is presenting with symptoms. You give it that medication in homeopathic dilution, and you see if it you can check mark all the boxes that It relieved all those symptoms, right? I don't think we have any experiment. We have proving on COVID. We know what COVID does. We have no experimentation to see if the homeopathic medication that they've used for COVID is working or not, right? So that's why I have not used it, because, you know, it's like, you also don't want to use something that is you want to use something that has record. You want to use something that the whole point of homeopathy, it's the fact that it's a an experimental medication. That means, throughout time, with experiments, we know what medications work. So the same thing with Persian, like in my family, certain things, we know how they work, because we've used it for, you know, so, so, so long, right? There are no experience. We haven't done any experiences. So experimenting with these things is a little bit scary, especially with conditions like COVID, unless someone really does a study or a complete experimentation and tells us that these things actually worked, then, you know, they'll probably make it somewhere. They probably won't make it to HP us anymore, because that's closed, but at least some of us will have more information about it, but I haven't seen that information. So

Speaker 3  2:01:14
to our viewers, Dr Payam just describe how homeopathic remedies goes through clinical trials. So it's not like phase one, phase two, phase three, like how drugs are done, but this is kind of like how we do it in the homeopathic world. But Dr Pam, again, thank you so much for the great presentation. You got all my questions out, and hopefully we can get you back on board again with this, with your lectures. It'll

Unknown Speaker  2:01:38
be an honor. Thank you guys very much.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:40
Okay, thank you, Doctor Payam, thank you. Thank you, Dr bikini. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Next week, we have incomparable Lisa Talati, again from New Zealand. Remember her? She was the ultra marathon runner and transformed into the super caregiver for her mother, and she's going to and I know Dr Nario was on with her last week, so she's going to give us more, more Tales from the super the superstars, the Super Fit humans. So we'll see her again next week, same time, same station. I have in the chat, the the link for the CME credit, and it'll be on next week's email. Anybody have any comments questions, if you have any, any anything you'd like to present? You know, we were always looking for presenters. There are quite a few new people on here this week. We welcome to have you. Thank you, and please come back. We're here every Tuesday night at 8pm Eastern, 5pm Pacific, same time, same station, same link. So we'll see you then. Dr Hakimi, great as always, and like we always say, if you're if you do us right, we'll invite you back. Otherwise we don't bother you.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:02
Thank you guys very much. You guys are

Speaker 1  2:03:04
amazing. All right, thanks. Good night, everybody. We'll have the video up soon as we can, and I'll have that over to you Doctor ikemi Thank you so much. Thank you, bye. Bye bye. Good night everybody.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai