Unknown Speaker  00:46
Hi, Dr COVID, this is Michael.

Speaker 1  00:47
Hello. Mike Emmanuel, long time. No see nice. Nice to see you, doctor, nice to see you too.

Unknown Speaker  01:00
What's the what's the title of this Zoom meeting?

Bill Clearfield  01:05
The title of the meeting is ivermectin and membendazole for cancer.

Speaker 2  01:10
Wow, that's exciting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We were

Bill Clearfield  01:13
supposed to have Doctor Shallenberger to do ozone, but we got a little crossed up in in time, so we're going to have him next week. Oh, beautiful.

Unknown Speaker  01:23
Yeah, we make, we make a lot of Abram acting, sublingua and turkeys. Very popular.

Speaker 1  01:37
Yeah, you make a note out of that. Yeah,

Speaker 2  01:42
we did a lot for COVID. COVID time also is a wonder drug. What

Unknown Speaker  01:53
was that?

Unknown Speaker  01:55
Is a good is a good drug. It does a lot of good thing. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  02:07
It's good stuff I have. I got this from Amazon. I got, it's horse paste. It's supposed to be, I don't think you can see it supposed to be, supposed to be apple flavored, but it's pretty bad. I It

Unknown Speaker  02:23
looks delicious. It

Unknown Speaker  02:25
was a lot less expensive than having it made 30 bucks for three of these boxes, and they're six, 6.08 grams. It's like a big, long tube, and you just like, Turn it up, you know? And it comes out.

Unknown Speaker  03:02
Yeah, okay.

Unknown Speaker  03:28
Scenario here yet let's see Dr Smith, you're back with us. It's been a long time. I

Unknown Speaker  03:47
So okay, I'm

Unknown Speaker  04:07
Why don't we not do that? We didn't do that last time. What was that? What

Unknown Speaker  04:33
Oh, that's good. Just just in the nick of time. Did we order that for somebody? I What's up?

Unknown Speaker  04:49
How are you? Dr, William, oh, I'm having the time of my life. I'm going to see my grandkids tonight. So keep it short.

Speaker 3  04:58
I haven't even packed yet. Oh, Lord, I don't know if I'm going to keep it short, because this lecture is going to be kind of a lecture that it will help a lot to validate ivermectin with bendazole and already, no, we did a Monday. They did not do it this time. This is, yeah, it's a different we did general, the cancer in general.

Unknown Speaker  05:27
Didn't we do this, like, five years ago with, with the ivermectin, you did it, you did it. You did this lecture. We did,

Unknown Speaker  05:36
we did ivermectin, and they throw us out in EA away.

Speaker 3  05:39
That's for, yeah, but now, with all the solid evidence and chemistry, nobody's gonna throw you away. My YouTube is still hanging. Nobody take them off, so we're good. Oh, they can put this in YouTube and link it with it didn't get stricken from from YouTube? No, yeah, that would I have to, I have to lecture on oncology. One, it's not because of me, it's because of mentioning other names of doctors that's been red flagged and they put me down. But the second one was a similar lecture is exactly the same that one would not they did not put it down which indicate that the logarithm, it's about certain names of doctors.

Speaker 4  06:27
That's what I conclude. Because it was two lecture, similar thing, one that somebody mentioned names that they are logarithm Lee and YouTube are being taken out. Yeah, we, you know, we're regular guys. Nobody really sees us. So we're good, we're still under the dark, we're not that famous. We're not a threat, we're not a threat.

Unknown Speaker  06:54
We're always we live, we live for being a threat. What are you talking about?

Unknown Speaker  07:00
Yeah, I don't think I think we're big enough. I don't think we're making big sound for them. So we're good.

Bill Clearfield  07:09
Well, there was House of Delegates meeting. Is it three weeks in Chicago? Should we storm it? Should go up there and storm the place that's, that's, that's when they, three years ago, they kicked us out. So,

Unknown Speaker  07:28
okay, so let's go

Bill Clearfield  07:30
right. Well, we always have to have Dr Nair give us, you know, the tip of the

Speaker 5  07:34
week. Yeah, that thing of Dr Nair, yes, we need to hear from him.

Bill Clearfield  07:38
I want, I was, I was thinking about figuring, trying to figure out a way to so archive them. So we have, like, you know, a little compendium of the tips of the week. And that way, we have our little we have our little integrative medicine handbook, and, you know, and we don't have to go, go take the class. So we got Dr Nair, he's our scribe,

Unknown Speaker  08:01
yeah, Dr Clearfield, yeah. I was just gonna say, I wish I had come across this group and you earlier when you said, three years ago you got kicked out

Unknown Speaker  08:13
my classmate, and really a good guy was Andrew or Andy. He was, he was the dean of diosco at Michigan State University. And he would have been very approachable. He was a, he was a PhD, mix, you know, blend degree. And

Bill Clearfield  08:37
I wish I would have known this group sooner. I would have gone to the ropes. I'm not sure. I'm not sure it would have made any difference. So, Adam, you're a deal, yeah, okay, so, you know, at this house of delegates meeting every year, they always inaugurate the new president, yep. And the President, you know, is always a physician, right? You know, it's not a you know, it's not executive, you know, right? Right? Well, that year, that that that meeting, when they, they inaugurated the new president. The new president was, was Ernie Gelb, you know, Ernie No, all right, so, so he was sitting on, on the diocese there, when this was all going on. Now, for those of you don't know, Ernie Gil was my practice partner for 15 years. We shared call on call together for 10 years and for a almost two years. You know where we lived at floods a lot. His office was flooded out. And guess who? Guess who took him in and had him rent free for two years in his office while his was being rebuilt, yeah, and he sat there and listened to all this nonsense being said about me personally, and and said nothing, wow, I don't know. I don't know. It would have made any difference one way or another. So, you know, the AOA is your personal friend, and he was taking flying lessons when we were working together. And I actually flew in the plate in his plane with him a couple of times. And it's some of the like, the omit, you know that that's the the AOA, ZZ, you know, scientific convention they have, yeah, yeah. Over they have, they have a dance contest every year, and I used to his part. My partner was his wife. I don't know what else I could have done.

Unknown Speaker  10:29
No, I just wish I would have known the group. I would have shoehorned this in through Michigan State University. And his name was Andy Amalfi Tano, and very open to this and gave

Bill Clearfield  10:40
us. They gave us exactly two weeks notice that they were throwing us out, and they let me plead my case. And it was, it was a pretty close vote. It was 530 to one to throw us out. I was the one. I was the one everyone else, and that included the the presidents of the Georgia Osteopathic Medical Association, the Arkansas Osteopathic Medical Association, and I think the Florida Medical is Osteopathic Association. The only reason I mentioned them is because I had lectured for all of those groups in within the in the year before they threw us out and told us that we weren't scientific. And, you know, we were, we were horrible. We were horrible, terrible people. So it didn't I, it would have been nice, but I don't think it would have mattered when it was all over, I sort of, I, when I, when I left the front and it was like, you remember in microbiology class when we did the this experiment with penicillin. And, you know, you put the, put the bugs in, and then you put the penicillin in, and it sort of, sort of gives you that big petri dish, sort of, sort of, it spreads, right? That's the way it was. As I walked by, they just sort of spread out, you know, and gave, gave me room. No one wanted to be near me.

Speaker 6  11:56
Well, Oh, that'll change one thing, it's, I hope we see it. You were gonna give Melvin, you were gonna give a pearl. Last week, when someone was speaking about TV and treatment and sunlight and the sanitariums, people went to one of the one of the features that is ignored there is that the people were treated in rooms exposed with light that contained fused quartz glass. And when light, when light goes through fused quartz glass, the frequency, wavelength, the penetration, whatever. No one knows why or how what it does, but it imparts changes in your health to the betterment like nothing, none other Tesla developed it. He, I guess he dreamt of it, created it, and then they had hospitals, schools, homes across the country that used had fused quartz glass, and eventually into the 30s, or somewhere late 30s, antibiotics coming on. All that got taken down because it's, you make more money by have some having someone sick. They wheel people out of an OR and put them in a room where sunlight was coming through fused coarse glass. Wow, that's interesting. The The other thing someone mentioned was about grapefruit. I mean, you guys already know it's the chemical in it is nergerin. Anyways, it's, it's adverse with a lot of things, but one happens to be that it interferes with Sif, one b1 enzyme in cancer cells. So, oh, I think we were talking about grape seed extract. But then Dr clear, that's, I see why someone's, yeah, someone said grapefruit though. And then someone said, a grapefruit. Then it went to grape seed. But anyways, thanks. I'll turn off. I'm gonna have somebody.

Bill Clearfield  13:48
Thank you. Doctor couch, alright? Doctor area, you got the tip of the week for us? Alright?

Speaker 6  13:52
So, Andrew, well, Tip of the Week today. I probably you guys know about this already. So aspirin has been the staple in conventional medicine, its primary uses included cardiovascular protection through platelet inhibition, pain relief, anti inflammatory action and fever reduction. Low dose aspirin, as defined, 81 to 100 milligrams per day is well established for secondary prevention of after myocardial in fact, infarctions or stents, and it's widely accessible, affordable and backed by decades of evidence. But beyond this, traditional roles, aspirin s effect on mood is emerging as a compelling area of research, especially in patients with inflammation linked depression. Several studies suggest that low grade inflammation contributes to major depressive disorders in a subset of patients. Again, it's Cox two activity on the enzymes. It reduces pro inflammatory prostaglandins like PGE two, which are often elevated in these individuals. So I 220, 18, randomized control trial found that aspirin, when combined, all right, so this is where the integrative part comes in, combined with NAC, 1000 milligrams per day led to improve depressive symptoms in patients with bipolar disorders. NAC supports glutathione production and modulates glutamate, adding neuroprotective and antioxidant effects. At 16 weeks, response rates were with for aspirin plus NAC reached 67% improvement and even meta analysis involving over 6000 patients show that low dose aspirin, again, 75 to 160

Speaker 5  15:30
milligrams can modestly improve depression scores, especially individuals with high CRP, auto immune conditions or treatment resistant depression. So this is the Swiss knife effect of aspirin. So we have a lot of patients with high CRP and now adding depression to the mix, and if a patient also has cardiovascular problems, definitely aspirin is something you can use, as proven by studies. Well, while not a first line mood treatment, I just want to put out there, aspirin may be a promising adjunctive value in integrative psychiatry. In fact, aspirin has several well supported off label uses, so Dr Halasa will be talking to us about that, but this one in cardiology, as we all know, we use it. But in oncology, low dose aspirin has been linked to a 40 to 50% reduction in the risk of colorectal, esophageal and gastric cancers. The irony there, we always affiliate aspirin as a cause of gastric ulcer, but as you can see here, gastric cancers actually can be prevented in that high of a percent. Also in pregnancy, meta analysis show that initiating aspirin for 16 weeks of gestation significantly reduces the risk of preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction and in people with diabetes, aspirin may differ moderately benefit in vascular event prevention, though bleeding risk must be carefully weighed. These examples highlight how aspirin s anti inflammatory and antiplatelet mechanisms extend into multiple therapeutic areas. So however, integrative practitioners often approach aspirin with caution. Conic use may lead to gastrointestinal irritation, microbiome disruption and nutrient depletion, so this, I didn't know, but it depletes folate, vitamin C and even iron. So in summary, aspirin, for as far more than a heart drug, its potential roles in psychiatry, oncology, obstetrics and even preventative care reflects its wide reaching biological effects with thoughtful use and proper risk benefit analysis, aspirin may serve as a valuable bridge between conventional and integrative medicine. So that's your Andrew. Well, Tip of the Week. There

Unknown Speaker  17:34
you go. And when are we going to get Andrew? Weil on with us?

Speaker 5  17:38
I'll drag him around when I see grab him by the beer, pull the cane on him.

Unknown Speaker  17:43
Okay, so I have a we had a little snafu with Dr Shallenberger this week. He'll be on next week. We had, he had some, some, some something we weren't able to get get together in time. So, Dr

Unknown Speaker  18:01
Halasa, you know, is generous always with his time and his knowledge. So he's going to regale us with mechanisms of Ivermectin. And

Unknown Speaker  18:16
you say it. Dr Halasa, cancer, stem cells and fibrosis. So I am, by the way, I'm leaving tonight. I'm going to visit my grandkids. I'm taking the red eye. I might have to leave early. So Dr Nair, if I do, I'm going to turn it over to you. I'll make you the host. Okay, sure. So I may not get the the video up for till till next week, but we'll do what, we'll see what. We'll see how it goes. Okay, so, Dr Halasa, you want to introduce yourself and take it away.

Speaker 4  18:49
Alright, great. I need that video because I need to put it in my YouTube. Think this video is going to be better during the video that I made

Speaker 5  18:59
last night. Okay, right. So my name is Dr Halasa. I'm the founder of chronic disease prevention and management, and today, we're gonna validate

Unknown Speaker  19:12
Ivermectin and Mebendazole

Speaker 4  19:15
in managing cancers. A lot of integrative doctors are now using it. In fact, they open up a room,

Speaker 5  19:23
I think, either telegram or signal where they are using Ivermectin, and they're asking doctors to report the data about the effect of of Ivermectin. But I'm a chemistry guy, so I like to support Ivermectin views in cancer.

Speaker 3  19:49
Of course, the mainstream medicine, they have a hard time to think about drug can work more than more.

Unknown Speaker  20:03
Did we lose audio? Pedra, so you got muted? There we go. Can

Speaker 3  20:08
you hear me now? There, yeah. So, so basically, you know, the mainstream medicine, they have a hard time to to recognize that drugs can work more than one activities. They can have multi effect. So for example, tetracycline can be anti inflammatory, inhibiting th 17 and mediated inflammation. Plus it's antibiotic, metal and blue can be photosensitizer. So it's a photodynamic therapy, and it goes to it does have some anti cancer and antibiotic effect, antiseptic effect. Ivermectin this the same thing. It does have anti inflammatory effect, Antiparasitic effect, plus it does have anti cancer effect. And what is unique about Ivermectin Mebendazole, they work specifically on cancer stem cells. So that's the the problem that the mainstream medicine have when they are managing cancer, is how to get rid from cancer stem cells, and when the oncologist are managing patient with cancer, especially stage one and two and three, where they have metastases, the big pharma offered them cocktail of chemotherapy, and sometimes they have alternative cocktails fixed for that specific cancer. Let's say for breast cancer, they have a cocktail of of cancer therapy, and possibly have alternative cocktails as well, but it's not based on the pharmacokinetic of the of the patient. So it's different from what we are doing. And therefore, so you can see that it's going to be effective for maybe 50% of the patient, another 50% because genetically, they are not sensitive to those cocktails. So basically it's not going to be benefit for them, but they approve them, and they move forward. And there's lot of patients who are benefit from those cocktail, and they shrink the cancer, and they have a regimen, let's say, for three months or six months. You know, most of the time they're three months, and they cannot go beyond that, because they're high dose of chemotherapy. If they go beyond that regimen, then they will suppress the immune system, and then the cancer will flip. It will cause the cancer to become more aggressive and it will damage the host. So the oncologist, they have limited regimen, and they cannot go beyond it. And after the regimen, after they finish from the regimen of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, radiotherapy and chemotherapy and immunotherapy, they will tell the patient, hey, we did the best. We're able, we're able to shrink your cancer, let's say 10% up to 10% of this original size, but we cannot do anymore. So, you know, I think there is no solutions for you. Insurance will not pay any extra thing, and even if they pay, we cannot do anything, because those chemotherapy can suppress the immune system and make things worse. So you go to the hospice and you wait for six months till you die. And what happened is that the integrative doctors will receive those patients and say, hey, you know we may have another shot for you and other help that we may use high dose vitamin C, we can use photodynamic therapy. We can use Ivermectin, Mebendazole, and repurpose drugs and polyphenols, IV and all that stuff. And it may help you so and they give hope and some patients and it works, and they end up with the Richmond remission. And I think if you hear one of the in the TV show of what's his name, Roger Mel Gibson, one of those show, he said, you know, Ivermectin did work for some of his colleagues who have had cancer and they have remission from Ivermectin and and those Antiparasitic drugs. So now the question is that, how that happened? I mean, how those Mebendazole and Ivermectin did work on those patients who are completely they they have a they are being, they're being

Speaker 4  24:24
recommended by their mainstream medicine that they will their life is going to be end after six months in the hospice, but they end up with revision. So we need to know exactly what's what happened there, and why the oncologist failed to eradicate the cancer, and the reason because those chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy, they are very good in getting read from, or getting read from, from the differentiated cancer cells. And so let's say 90% of the cancers are differentiated, so that those ones are insensitive and there's one are going to die, but the other, the cancer stem cells, they have a hard time to destroy them. And the reason because the cancer stem cells behave like normal cells, and what's that mean, they have enough of antioxidant machineries that when the chemotherapy is trying to destroy them and generate free radicals to induce apoptosis. Already, therapy is trying to generate enough of free radicals they neutralize them, because those cancer stem cells behave like normal cells, and they can neutralize them with their antioxidant machineries. And so the chemotherapy and radiotherapy and they are immature enough so they don't have enough of major histogram Biol complex to really present the antigen to the cytotoxic T cells and cytotoxic T cells to kill them. And so they are very sensitive. They are very resistant to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. And those are the cancers that lift that's not being destroyed by the mainstream medicine regimen, whether it's chemo, radio or immunotherapy. In addition to that, the chemotherapy and radiotherapy, they actually make the mitochondria sick. And when you make the mitochondria sick, what will happen? You end up shifting into glycolysis, what's called Warburg phenomena, and that's what cancer wants. Actually, a cancer secrete chemicals to make the mitochondria sick, not working, and why? Because the mitochondria is like a ticking bomb, and the cancer does not want the mitochondria to work, because if it's active, it may end up blowing up and releasing all their free radicals, which will induce apoptosis and kill the cancer. So cancer either secretes chemicals that makes the mitochondria to be inhibited, or the chemotherapy and radiotherapy also itself the tested therapy, it makes the mitochondria sick. And when making mitochondria six, you end up the patient or the cancer is moving to glycolysis. That's how they generate energy. That's why, when you do the PET scan, you can see those spots of where the high reuptake of glucose. That's radioactive. You can see them in the CT scan, and because that's the source of energy, and they, they, they break down the glucose into pyrovic acid, which will turn the shift the media of the cancer into acidosis. Now, what acidosis does? It will cause more D differentiation of the cancer cells into cancer stem cells. This is one which is bad, and the other thing, it will stimulate fibrosis, which is cancer shaded fibrosis. Now, what the cancer shade fibrosis does? It will squeeze the blood vessels, preventing the infiltration of lymphocytes, which is the cytotoxic T cells, from from getting into the core of the cancer, and destroy the cancer cells. And also they squeeze the blood vessels enough to prevent the red blood cells from carrying oxygen into the cancer. And they some of them, they squeeze it though tight that even chemotherapy cannot go into the cancer. And so that's the problem that we have. So the cancer treated fibrosis and the cancer stem cells is the reason why we're unable to eradicate the cancer by the chemotherapy and radiotherapy and immunotherapy, which is the mainstream medicine protocols. So now we know the reason. Now we need to come up with a solution. In addition to that, the acidosis itself will cause the immune system to be polarized into T Rex and th two and th 17 away from cytotoxic T cells. And when you have too much of T regs, it will make the cancer immune tolerance. And immune tolerance means that the immune system will recognize the cancer cells as self and they will not attack it. So that's what T reg does. It secretes into new content and that inhibit all those cytotoxic T cells from attacking the cancer. So there's many layers that the cancer is of shields that's protecting the cancer, fibrosis, two eggs. Th, 17. Th, two, you know, and so there is inflammation, but inflammation that does not destroy the cancer. In fact, it to help the cancer to grow. The inflammation that we need is th, one mediated inflammation which is cytotoxic and natural killer. So that's being inhibited by by by the cancer itself. And plus, you know, with the chemotherapy and destroying or making the mitochondria sick, it does shift the whole thing to acidosis, and that favor the the tumor micro environment to be favorable for for the cancer growth and metastasis. So now we know reason. We know the reason why we have the problem in eradicating cancer. It's because of the the top one is because of cancer fibrosis and cancer stem cells, plus other things. You know, there's also mutations and and insensitivity to those enzymes and receptors to the chemotherapy. But the the main top ones is the cancer shaded fibrosis and and the cancer stem cells. And so if we can solve this problem, if we can break the fibrosis, if we start thinking outside the box, and not just think about how we destroy the cancer or intercept their metabolism, but also how to break the fibrosis and specifically intercept, intercept the metabolism of cancer stem cells, and also differentiate the cancer stem cells into into cancer cells in a state of stem cells, I mean, stimulate the differentiation of those cancer cells, to differentiate the cancer cells, then we can definitely help to eradicate the cancer. So that's what we are doing as integrative doctors chronic disease prevention and management. This is exactly what we how we are trying to or working on eradicating cancer, instead of just shrinking the cancer, because that's the mainstream medicine, they just shrink the cancer. Sometimes they end up with education remission, which is good luck for that. But around 70% of cancer treatment by mainstream medicine, they fail and fail to eradicate the cancer. We can, we can, we can shrink them, but it's hard to eradicate them. And the reason why we told you why because of the cancer stem cell, cancer shade fibrosis, plus cancer stem cells, plus many other things, but the top ones is cancer shaded fibrosis, and we find out that mebenzo and Ivermectin help in both killing the cancer stem cells by interfering with the cancer stem stem cells metabolism, which we're going to see them in the coming slides, plus it helps to break down the fibrosis. And of course, we need to add more anti fibrotic drugs to the cocktail, whether it's peptide or supplements and drugs, and we're going to learn that, plus we're going to also enhance the anti cancer stem cells effect of Ivermectin Mebendazole with other drugs like the polyphenols and methylene blue and many other rapamycin and many others that works on cancer stem cells, and we can create a cocktail of drugs and supplements and peptides loaded inside cyclodextrin that's will be the best, or in case of injectable load inside plates nanoparticle, and we can definitely reach you the point of eradication of The cancer and finish the job that the mainstream medicine failed to do. It does not mean that what we're doing in mainstream medicine is bad. I mean just shrinking the cancer to 10% its original size, it's a good thing. But because the mainstream medicine, they have no clue about the cancer sheet, fibrosis and how to manage it, or do they have hard time to manage cancer stem cells. So as we, as integrative doctors, we do have the tools to do it and finish the job for them. And then if they have problem for us helping to finish the job, you just have to tell them about what you are doing and why you're doing it and what's the mechanism of action in the chemistry. And then those oncologists, they will stop harassing you, especially when you show them the chemistry, because I don't think anybody can argue chemistry, and that's what I'm doing in this lecture, is to validate most of those integrative oncology work of using Ivermectin, midbendazole, and many other drugs and supplements and peptides as an anti cancer stem cells and anti fibrotic and this would help them a lot to validate their work and then answer the questions of, you know, whether it's regulatory or the integrative or the mainstream medicine colleges out there. And very important to know that you know,

Speaker 4  33:41
as we know, those cancers associated fibrosis, they squeeze the blood vessels, preventing infiltration of the red blood cells and the oxygen to go in. So the cancer is hypoxic, and if it's low oxygen, the radiotherapy will not work, because radiotherapy is based on how the radiotherapy work, it induce the free radicals, right? And destroy it, interfere with the DNA, plus it generates free radicals that induce apoptosis and also the chemotherapy ultimately increases the chemotherapy. And if you don't have enough oxygen in the cancer, you your chemotherapy and your therapy will not work as effective as if there's oxygen in So breaking the fibrosis, which will lead the infiltration of red blood cells, and also giving oxygen, which is whether throw ozone oxygen chamber to bypass the infiltration of red blood cells, the hindering of filtration of red blood cells, because now the oxygen dissolving into the plasma, and then you get into the core of the cancer, and that helps to even enhance the efficacy of the mainstream medicine, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. So you're doing a favor for them. Plus, when you give them thymosin alpha, you help to polarize the immune system into the th one, which is synergistically it's working with your immunotherapy, which is the anti PD one and anti CTL form. So the things that we are doing is actually supporting and enhancing the efficacy of the chemotherapy and the radiotherapy, and so understanding the mechanism of all of our integrative approach and how it's going to be synergistically not antagonizing the effect of the mainstream medicine therapy, then this will give us better more tool, more progress, tools to really manage and eradicate the cancer. And so I think we just summarized the whole thing here. I mean basically the Ivermectin do work on intercepting cancer stem cells metabolism, which is called the WNT signaling, which is the metabolism that's specific for cancer stem cells. That's one way of the mechanism. So they target cancer stem cells, so they are anti cancer stem cells drug. And in addition to that, they also the mitochondria. Helps to blow up the mitochondria. So first of all, it's good to add oxygen to your therapy, to enhance the mitochondria function, to generate enough of free radicals inside the mitochondria, and also adding all those polyphenols and things that helps to improve the electron transport chain, so that we will shift the lactic acids into from glycolysis into oxidation phosphorylation, to lead to shifting from acidosis to alkalosis, which is very important to reverse all the problem that we have from acidosis, which is the differentiating this will lead to differentiating of the cancer stem cells and polarization of the immune system to cytotoxic T cells. And all the good thing when you shift acidosis to alkalosis by activating the mitochondria. And then you need to blow up the mitochondria After you activate them, right? And you can blow them up with their photodynamic therapy using meth blue, which was which accumulated the mitochondria, and then you you shine light generates enough free radicals that will break down the membrane of the mitochondria and release the cytochrome oxidase or cytochrome oxidase C, and that will induce apoptosis. Or Ivermectin itself can blow up the mitochondria, in addition to that diagram, to inhibit the fibrosis, especially the differentiation the fibroblast into myofibroblast, and inhibit the transforming growth factor, beta, the signaling effect. And that's a good thing, because then you are able to break down the fibrosis. And so when we are monitoring the efficacy of the chemotherapy, or all the treatment that we're doing, or your integrative therapies or radiotherapy, you see the shrinking of the cancer, right? And you say, okay, the cancer is 10 centimeter. Now it's like 10 Cent. It's 10 centimeter. Now it's one centimeter. But also it's very important when you're doing the ultrasound or CT scan MRI, it's not just the size of the cancer shrinking. That's, of course, that's a good thing. But also look at the density of the cancer. So the more dense cancer is not good. That's mean it has fibrosis, a hyper echo of the cancer. So very important that when you're doing anti fibrotic drug therapy, you're breaking down the fibrosis, you want to turn the cancer to be the similar eco especially when you're doing ultrasound to the surrounding tissue, that's when you're breaking the fibrosis, and you're allowing the infiltration of lymphocytes and red blood cells. And so tomorrow to the effects of your treatments, which include your chemo or radio and your integrative therapy, anti fibrotic, anti cancer, anti cancer stem cells. Look at also the consistency of the cancer and the density of the cancer. The less fibrotic, the better prognosis, the more fibrotic and more dense. That's not good. That's mean there are a lot of fibrosis which are squeezing the blood pressure, preventing the infiltration of lymphocyte and red blood cells carrying the oxygen and and lymphocytes, which is cytotoxic T cells, from killing the cancer, plus it can squeeze the blood vessel to prevent these big molecules, even if your chemotherapy can go into core of the cancer. And that's why anti fibrotic drugs is very important to be given. Ivermectin, Mebendazole is one of them. Those are 10. Will be second, and nattokinase is third. And there's many others that we're going to talk about them in the coming slides. And if we go to Mebendazole, Mebendazole also it has anti cancer stem cells effect, and it interfere with the mitosis of the cancer cells by interrupting the microtubules right during the mitosis, and that helps to induce apoptosis and killing of the cells. In addition to that, is same like Ivermectin. It helps to blow up the mitochondria using the cytochrome oxidase C and induce apoptosis. In addition to that, it does interfere with the cancer stem cells metabolism, the WNT signaling and the Hodge hog signaling, those are specific cancer metabolism blocks them and that also induce apoptosis of the cancer stem cells. In addition to that, the Mebendazole has Anti angiogenesis, but by inhibition of the VE vascular deterio growth factor, because we know that the cancer secretes a lot of VGF and causing hyper vascularity. But there are normal blood vessels. They are kinky blood vessels. So one would think, Oh, the cancer is hyper vascular. So how come they are hypoxic? Well, they are hyper vascular, but they are kinked, plus, in addition to the fibrosis, so that it's like, think about you have your house hose and it's being kinked. So what will happen all those big particles, red blood cells and white blood cells, even big molecules, cannot pass through that kink it thing. And so it's very important to normalize the blood vessels by inhabiting the successive vascular endothelial growth factor. In addition to that, excessive vascular material growth factor can polarize the immune system to T Reg, so it's not good. Something good needs to be inhibited. So you can help to polarize the immune system to th one and cytotoxic T cells. So now we understood that how the mebenzo Ivermectin is affecting the tumor micro environment, is killing the cancer stem cells, and that's what we need, especially at the end of the regimen of the chemotherapy, radiotherapy, that's what you get. You get a dense tissue of fibrotic full of cancer stem cells that is a resistance to to chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy. And now we need to consider destroying the cancer stem cells, also changing the tumor micro environment to become alkalosis, so you can differentiate them, those cancer stem cells, into cancer cells that can be more sensitive to your chemotherapy or neuro therapy when you do that. And you need to look at breaking down the fibrosis and changing tumor micro environment in general, at many level, whether at the immune level, at the fibrotic level, at the blood vessel level, to become a style environment for the cancer. So thinking outside the box, that's what we do as chronic disease prevention and management specialist CDPM, which implement a system, a systems of biological approach to cancer reversal, targeting the foundational disruption in the redox status, as we saw in the mitochondria, how we are activating it, first accumulating a free radicals inside them right, shifting the metabolism from glycolysis into oxidation phosphorylation, which is which leads to shifting from acidosis to alkalosis and and then blowing up the cancer to release those free radicals to induce apoptosis and also immune regulation, right? You can see the shifting that we're doing giving time with an alpha we alkalin the tumor to shift the immune system into cytotoxic T cells, and we breaking down the fibrosis, and we normalizing the blood vessels by inhibiting the VEGF within the paradigm, two proposed Antiparasitic drugs that we are using, Ivermectin and Mebendazole, have demonstrated significant anti cancer, especially anti cancer stem cells, proprieties particularly supporting suppressing cancer stem cells and remodeling the tumor microenvironment. And we talked about, in summary, this article outlines the mechanism, mechanistic rational for incorporating Ivermectin ribendazole into Integrative Cancer Protocol, or CDPM protocol, supported by pharmacogenetic profiling, redox monitoring and novel delivery

Speaker 4  43:23
platform which use. We actually all the drugs, whether it's auto injectable, we like them to be loaded inside cyclodextrin, right? And that enhanced them and increase their delivery and protect them from being degraded, especially the peptides of those cancer drugs that we're using, and it helps to get them into the pathology. In addition to that, if they are injectable, we'd we'd like to load them inside platelets nanoparticle, and I can help you to load drugs inside plateless nanoparticle, which is very important if you really want to practice integrative oncology and you really want to get those medications and supplements and peptide and chemotherapy into the pathology, into the cancer, and that's what a company is called psylla therapeutic is doing in San Diego. It's a big pharma maybe 10 to 20 years from now, all the drugs will be loaded inside plates nanoparticle. And they have lot of publication to support that, but I'm doing it now. I can train you to load drugs inside plateless nanoparticles, and that helps to get those antibodies that you're using for cancer, which is at PDT l1 and RT CTL four, which is therapeutic, to get them into the platelet particle, get your chemotherapy there. So you don't need to use the the full dose of chemotherapy. You can use 10 to 20% which is not toxic to the to the body, and you get them into the pathology. And then you're not be restricted with regimen. You don't need to to follow the regime of the mainstream medicine, where you have to do three months, because the high dose chemotherapy that they're using nakedly. If you go beyond that, it will suppress the immune system. It flips the whole thing, but with 10% 20% and you loading site, vitamin apart nanoparticles, you're getting it into the pathology, activating with light, which is called Photo activated, low dose chemotherapy. You can continue using this therapies of chemo and based on the pharmacokinetic of the patients, of course, you know, basically, when you have a cancer patient, we take the blood, we give it to RGC lab or some somebody who will go ahead and give us all the cocktail peptides and drugs and chemotherapy and supplement that this patient is sensitive to. And then we take them, we ask the compounding pharmacy to load them inside the cyclodextrin, or us, we load them inside place nanoparticle, and then we give it to the to the patients, and we include everything, you know, from chemotherapy, I don't ditch what mainstream medicine is doing. We can still use the immunotherapy, but more wise, we can still use the chemotherapy. We can do radio therapy, but we can use radio sensitive drugs. So we can use lower dose of radiotherapy, and we continue giving the treatment. There's no caps. When you are using, you know, the low dose and loading it and targeted therapy you can use with no caps. And we are using the anti cancer stem cell therapy, Ivermectin and Mebendazole and lozartan and many others that we are, thymosin alpha and all that. And altogether so that you have, you are hitting the cancer from all different direction, and there is no The cancer is completely diffused. Cannot really use their tricks to to to escape the therapies that that you are doing, because you understand the tricks of the cancer and you're hitting it from all different direction. And you are, you know, one step ahead of the cancer stem cells, you know, manipulation and changing and escaping, and that's what we need to learn and to do to manage cancer. We need to use all the therapies that is available, all the tools, whether it's mainstream medicine tool, you know, the most mainstream medicine to think about they're just blind bombs, and we can t still use them, but we can make them to become smart bumps, right and targeted bombs. So we can load them inside. Play this nano particle inside, stabilize them with cyclodextrin and and use just 10% 20% dose and inject them into the body. We still can use immunotherapy anti PD, one, NCT for women, load them inside plateau particles. So you can still use the peptides. You can still use the radiotherapy. You can still use all these repurposed drugs to break down the fibrosis and and and kill cancer stem cells. And use pharmacokinetics to make sure that those drugs that you're using are sensitive to that specific patients, and if you do that, personalize it, integrative approach of managing cancer, I think you can do better than what we are the mainstream medicine is doing with cancer. So cancer is no longer viewed solely as uncontrolled cell perforation. It's not just the problem of cancer is not just they lost the control of dividing, but also, there's many factors that led to the cancer to grow and escape and and overcome the host, and include the problem in the Redox imbalance, right oxidative stress, and we Know the cancer environment is little bit the Redox potential is higher than the healthy tissue and lower than the Redox potential needed for inducing apoptosis. So it's in between there and that high free radical. It's very important for the cancer because it drives them to proliferate and continue dividing and so manipulating the Redox, whether pushing it up to and to induce apoptosis, or lowering it down so they stop dividing, either way, will help to get to get rid from the cancer. But the best thing is just push it up and induce apoptosis and kill the cancer in the state of just arresting or stopping them from dividing.

Unknown Speaker  49:04
The other thing is that it's metabolic Reprogramming. Tumor. Of course, they favor glycolysis. They don't like the mitochondria to work, and they secrete chemicals to stop the mitochondria, and we call the Warburg fibromyalgia. So they shift into glycolysis, because the mitochondria is a ticking bomb. It's a threat for the cancer. If it's active, eventually it will blow up in that style or that cancer environment. And so the mitochondria does stopped it, and they favor the glycolysis. So anything that decrease the intake of the sugar, like, you know, diet and keto diet and fasting and metformin, all this helps in starving the cancer, right? And so that's, that's so the cancer is, there's many factors there that helps those cancer to emerge and invade the immune system. In addition to that, you know, if, if somebody being stressed for a long period of time and compromise the cytotoxic T cells immune surveillance, which happened just by stressing and too much of cortisone for a long period of time, you may end up leading to cancer to escape the immune surveillance, and they stop proliferating and dividing. So it's, it can see the cancer. It's, it's, it's multifactor. It's, yes, there's some genetics there, where the cancer tend to divide or get the genetics leads them, you know, they have tendency for cancer. But also, there's many environmental factors, other factors, immune factors, Redox factors, psychological factor that all together lead to the emerging of the cancer and spreading of the cancer and propagation of the cancer. So in addition to that, there is problem with regeneration. And yes, you know, we see the, you know, if you go to the pillars of the Chronic Disease Prevention and Management, whether you are managing regenerative or degenerative diseases, or you're managing cancer, which I consider it is sort of regenerative Dysregulation, right?

Unknown Speaker  51:08
So that's what we do. We manage anything in chronic disease prevention. We have four pillars. Is to modulate

Unknown Speaker  51:18
Redox, immune, metabolic and regenerative, and one of the core problem we have in cancer is getting rid from the cancer stem cells. And we know the cancer stem cells is the drive of the cancer metastasis, drive of the therapy resistance, because they behave like normal cells. They have enough of antioxidant machine to neutralize any extra free radicals that's trying to induce apoptosis of this cancer stem cells. In addition that cancer stem cells mutate, and they can develop a new lines of cancer cells that is completely resistance to that chemotherapy. Because chemotherapy, you know, if you've been exposed the cancer to the chemotherapy, whatever target that the chemotherapy is targeting with mutation, and mutation due to the Redox itself can lead to mutation of the genetics. Then those receptors and those enzymes will become insensitive to that specific chemotherapy. And then that cancer line will start dividing prof rating and escape whatever therapies that you're doing, and what we call as a resistance so

Unknown Speaker  52:26
so we know, and we now we understand that the big problem and the reason why the mainstream medicine is unable to finish the job and radicate the cancer, it's because of the cancer associated fibrosis, the top one, plus the cancer stem cells, and now we want to use the tools that helps to get these two things

Unknown Speaker  52:49
destroyed. And we can do that chemically using those Repurposing drugs. We can also use that to kinase, those are tan, to break down the fibrosis, and there's many other drugs that that helps to break down the cancer stem cells, in addition to Ivermectin, imabendazole, and we can create a cocktail of anti cancer stem cell and anti fibroscopic The Cancer associated fibrotic drugs that will break down the fibrosis of the drugs.

Unknown Speaker  53:22
So let's go ahead and go to those specific mechanism of how Ivermectin is

Unknown Speaker  53:32
destroying and killing cancer stem cells, and one way is by inhibition of the metabolism of the cancer stem cells, which is WNT WNT B Catenin. You can see that the Ivermectin habit, dose signaling, which is specifically for cancer stem cell, that's one way it suppresses the WNT B Catenin signaling, which is a central drive of cancer stem cells and self renewal. And this is this will reduce its nuclear accumulation of the beta Catenin therapy, decreasing the cancer stem cells markers, because it will lead to an induce apoptosis the cancer stem cells. And when the cancer stem cells decrease, then how I can monitor the efficacy of this treatment by checking the CD 44 and ALDH one expression. So let's say you are you measured the CD 444, before introducing Ivermectin, and then after three months, you want to know that Ivermectin did help to induce apoptosis and intercept the metabolism of cancer stem cells, leading to apoptosis, then you will see the drop in the CD 444, expression and ALDH one. So it's very important to monitor the effects of the treatment by looking at those markers, those tumor markers, and see the drop when you're using your treatment, because now you know that, hey, I was able to destroy those cancer stem cells.

Speaker 5  55:13
And it's very important, when we do any treatment, we need to know whether this treatment is working or not, and coupling it with the right diagnostic monitoring, it does give us better understanding of what we are doing and and and evidence that we are having impact in treatment of the cancer. And also the patient will be going to get excited when you tell them, Hey, your cancer stem cell was was high, your your the markers was high, and now, because of what we're doing, we shrink it down. So that's a good thing. That's a good hope. That's mean we are getting rid from the cancer. The other thing that Ivermectin does, it inhabit the P 21 inhibiting the B 21 which is very important to activate the pack one. So Ivermectin will eventually suppress the mTOR by just inhibiting the P 21 and we know that when you're inhibiting the mTOR, you're inhabiting the the cell, the proliferation, because mTOR, it's genetic that stimulate the cell per operation, right, especially the cancer stem cells. And inhibiting mTOR is one way of reducing the cancer stem load and helps to eradicate the cancer. So this mTOR is a genes that drives the growth of the cancer cells and anything that inhabit them. Tour, it's a good thing. Ivermectin is one of them, but there's many other inhibitors of mTOR that we know, rapamycin, Metformin, Berberine, all of this can can have the mTOR by activating them, PK, in case of metformin and Berberine, or in case of

Speaker 7  56:59
Ivermectin, they do that by inhibiting the B 21 which leads to inhibition of the mTOR.

Speaker 5  57:09
The other thing is that we talked about that the mitochondria is a ticking bomb inside the cancer, and it's being inhibited by the cancer. And why? Because against it does not want the too much of free radicals that the cancer is the mitochondria has, especially they store it inside the inner membrane, right? And so they want the mitochondria to be stopped, and that's why they even squeeze the blood vessels to prevent the oxygen from going in, to prevent the mitochondria to be activating, to prevent generating of too much of free radicals, because that will be a threat. Why? Because if those mitochondria is active in the cancer, it will blow up and release all the free radical inside the mitochondria and the cyclochromics that they see and induce apoptosis. So divermectin helps to do that. It helps to blow up the mitochondria, and it will be good if you add polyphenols, vitamin C, ozone, all of this will help to increase and shift and inhibit the Warburg phenomena and shifting it to oxidation, phosphorylation, so you can increase the free radical load inside the mitochondria. So when you blow it, you release enough of the free radicals that will induce apoptosis. So that's one way of killing the cancer. So I'd like to add more to an addition to Ivermectin, other things that activates the mitochondria. So when, when I the mechan blows up the mitochondria by disrupting the membrane of the mitochondria and releasing the cytochrome oxidase C, I have enough of free radicals to induce apoptosis, so induction of mitochondriops via ROS by Ivermectin. Ivermectin induce mitochondria dependent apoptosis in cancer cells by increasing antracellular reactive oxygen species. This mechanism especially potent in those glycolysis dependent tumors, right? First of all, you activate the mitochondria, you increase the free radicals inside the mitochondria, right? And you activate the electron transport chain, and then you blow them up to release all those free radicals to induce apoptosis and and so most of those glycolytic, dependent tumors, they they don't have much of buffer capacity to buffer those oxidative stress Well, cancer stem cells do have, you know, almost like healthy tissue, but with all The things that we are doing, then this will compromise the cancer stem cells to survive, so you really need to hit it from all different direction. And eventually blowing up the mitochondria will lead to release of those cytochromics that they see, which will induce apoptosis. But adding other things that helps to activate the mitochondria and blow them up, like for the dynamic metal and blue photo, dynamic therapy, high dose vitamin C ozone, so you can have enough oxygen to generate those free radicals. All of this will help. And then those kinds of stem cells eventually will become, well, they will differentiate, because once you activate the mitochondria and you shift the Macy doses doccolises, this will cause the cancer stem cells to differentiate to cancer cells. And yes, those cancer cells, they don't have much of antioxidant capacity to buffer those free radicals. And eventually they will, they will die and and you get red from them. So the Ross generation, Ivermectin stimulate the production of ROS inside the cell. Excess of ROS overwhelmed oxidative antioxidant defense, like glutathione and then mitochondria membrane depolarize and release those free radicals right and release those Cytochrome oxidase C, which will induce them might the the apoptosis and kill that cancer cells. Why? How the Cytochrome c leaks into the cytoplasm activate the capsized nine, capsized three, leading to intrinsic apoptosis, and this bypass the B 53 so let's say you have a cancer. It has mutation of B 53 Well, I can bypass it right now because I'm using the mitochondria and using apoptosis of the cancer cells. And so I don't even if you have mutated P 53 this is kind of a way to bypass that. We know the P 53 is very important to be activated to kill the cancer. And there's a lot of drugs that activates the P 53 by the way, and we can add it in our cocktail, and exosomes, for example, umbilical very rich with P 53 and they say it will help to introduce the cancers and and use it helps to induce apoptosis. But also, as as also, we know that umbilical cancer, umbilical exosomes do have the growth factors that stimulate the cancer as well. So it's kind of a sore with two edges. But in order to really make those cancer, those exosomes works as anti cancer, I like to load them with chemotherapy, with Ivermectin, with anything anti cancer. So that will kind of push the scale of destroying the cancer more than

Speaker 7  1:02:21
stimulating them to grow. And so in order to induce the mitochondria disruption and mitochondriapoptosis via Ross, it's good to add other adjutants, vitamin C, IV, ozone, polyphenols, Q 10, Alpha Lipoic Acid always helps to activate the mitochondria, and then you blow them up and release those free radicals to use apoptosis. Methylene. Photodynamic therapy will be a good thing too. So specifically for glycolytic tumors like triple negative breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma. Those are tumor relies on glycolysis and what we call the Warburg phenomenon. And they are acid, acidic that you know, they're living inside acidic environment, which in favor the cancer, because I said no, stimulate the fibrosis, stimulate the shifting of the immune system into twag, it definitely helped to the cancer, and those cancers, specifically, if they have p 53 mutation or resistance all of this, you know, using this method will help to bypass that and use the the apoptosis By the mitochondria. We call it the mitochondria, we call it the mitochondria driven apoptosis, and not relying on the P 53 which is nuclear signaling. And to improve this response, adding ozone. Of course, you need the ozone so oxygen, and we know that the fibrosis squeeze the blood vessels, preventing red blood cells and oxygen from going in. And you can bypass that by dissolving oxygen into the plasma, right, so that you have plasma rich of oxygen, whether it's oxygen shamrocks or ozone, and it gets into the cancers and definitely help. Or you can inject even those on inside the tumor as well. And that would help to increase the free radicals inside the mitochondria, and then you can blow them up with photodynamic therapy with MATLAB blue, or using Ivermectin and many other drugs that we talked about. Ivermectin exerts one of the it's powerful anti cancer effect by disrupting the nuclear transport of transportation factors, specifically stat three, signal transducer and activator of transcription three and nfk beta. So one of the way to Ivermectin works. It blocks the Importin alpha and Importin beta, and if you block it, then you cannot activate the stat and nfk beta. So cancer relies on stat three and nfk Beta, because they first of all that fk be to generate free radicals to drive the cancer cell proliferation. Do you remember we said that the cancer cells live in an environment of Redox potential that is higher than a healthy tissue, and the drive is coming from activation of nfk, but also the stat three and MFK releasing all these free radicals, which is very pathological, free radicals which help the cancer to divide, because that's the drive of the cancer cells to divide. They want to have little bit Redox potential higher than a healthy tissue. But also this level of free radicals, leads to increase the expression of interleukin six, and introducing six, as we know, and induction eight, they're not good, because they polarize the immune system into th 17, away from cytotoxic T cells. So it's kind of exhausting the immune system into inflammation, which is th 17 mediated that exhaust the immune system. And really, what the th 17 do? What into nucleus six they will do. They will assimilate the white blood cells to produce neutrophils. Okay, nutrin fields will not do anything. Or they will stimulate the shift into th two and and give you a mass cell activation. What mass cell activation? Histamine. Actually, this will favor the cancer. It will please the it will it will drain the immune system, and it will definitely shift the immune system away from th one and Cytochrome cells so that actually cause the cancer to be aggravated or progress it and it leads to metastases and many other things. So, so that's what the Ivermectin does. It does inhibit the activation on fnfk Beta instead three. And this lead by by inhibiting them 14, alpha and beta, which is very important to activate those gene expressions. And this leads to lowering the entry leukem Six. So n protein alpha and beta are nuclear transporter protein that act like a shuttles. When protein like stat three or nfk Beta activate inside to blast them, they must be taken to they must be taken to the nucleus, and who's going to take them the the importine alpha and beta, which are being shut by the Ivermectin. So they bind to importing alpha, which form a complex with importing B, and this complex escort the protein into the nuclear Pro, the nuclear pro complex, and this is going to be inhabited by Ivermectin, and this will lead to nfk, beta to be shut down. Stat three will be shut down, and then you don't have much of free radicals that drives the pathological period, that drives the cancer division and proliferation, and you don't have the expression of the

Speaker 4  1:07:52
antileucan Six, which is also leads to polarization of the immune system away from th one into the th 17 and th two and T Reg, which is something that's what we actually helps to make the cancer to grow. We need to stop that and lower that, and this will definitely help in managing the cancer and getting rid from the cancer. So once inside, this factor activate the genes that promote inflammation, especially the th 17 mediated inflammation, to look at six mediated inflammation, and also stimulate the expression of angiogenesis, because they release the VGF expression, they increase that as well. And when you're pushing the immune system away from cytotoxic T cells in th one, moving it to th 17, definitely this will lead to immune evasion. So Ivermectin block the interaction between the cargo protein stat three and MK beta and in 14 alpha and beta. As a result, this survival promoting factors are trapped inside the cytoplasm. They don't get inside the nucleus to be expressed, cannot activate the gene transcription in the nucleus. This and have the cancer cell proliferation because, as I said, they express the free radicals, which is necessary, the pathological to drive the the cell, the cancer cell proliferation, they dump in the inflammation, the inflammation that that's, that's the cytotoxic T cells inflammation, right? They dump that, and they increase the inflammation that's mediated by th 17, which is useless, and they enhance, eventually, they enhance the immune detection of the tumor. Definitely, when you are inhabiting the interleukin six, and you inhabit the at 17, you're shifting the immune system to th one, this will increase the cytotoxic T cells, the immune surveillance and immune detection and destruction of the cancer cells. So as you see here, that stat three drives the perforation, and also it drives the shifting to th two dominancy, and also they increase the expression of interleukin 10 and vascular growth factor, which stimulates the shifting of the immune system into T reg as well, and Ivermectin will inhibit that and have the translocation of those those proteins into the to the nucleus, until preventing the expression of those genes, inhibited translocation, reduce the tumor growth and immune suppression. Also nfk Beta promote inflammation and fibrosis. Yes, because, as I said, the NfkB stimulate the prooxidants and the pathological figureheads, what drives the proliferation of the cancer, but also they stimulate expression of the antileocen Six and also into looking 10 and transforming growth factor beta. And we know the transforming growth of beta interleukin 10, together, they stimulate the fibrosis, and that's not something good. So we need to inhibit that. And that can be inhibited by the Ivermectin, which will reduce the cytokines transforming growth the interleukin six, and that leads to decrease transforming growth factor, beta, interleukin 10, and eventually decrease the fibrosis. And that's what we need. We need less fibrosis. So when we are monitoring the efficacy of a cancer treatment, we're not just shrinking the size, seeing the shrinking of the size of the cancer measured, but also the consistency of the cancer. We want it to be less dense. We want it to be not hyper echoic, but echoic, and almost like the we need to be look like this, similar to the tissue that's surrounding it. And we can do that with using anti fibrotic drugs, this antiparasite drug that can be repurposed as anti fibrotic but also there's other anti fibrotic drugs that can be used, nitro kinase,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:47
the anti hypertensive drugs.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:52
What's that? You know,

Speaker 3  1:11:57
those are tan, yes, and and many others that we can use to break and also shockwave by the way, I am working with the Chinese manufacturer to produce shockwaves specifically to care to destroy cancer associated fibrosis that's on the way. And the specification of the shockwave for cancer associated fibrosis, the Wat and the heritage is little bit different from what we using for Regenerative Medicine, and I think that mechanically, plus chemically, and there's many other there's peptides that's that's anti fibrotic, there's drugs, there's supplements, and we can create a cocktail of oral, injectable anti fibrotic drugs, or we call it cancer associated fibrotics. And this will eventually, in the future, it will be part of the regime of the cancer that you're going to have. Cancer associated fibrotic drugs part of the management, not just chemotherapy that breaks down the cancer or to set the metabolism of the of the cancer. But also we will have, in the future, cancer associated fibrotic drugs, nattokinase, los Atan, Ivermectin, and many to break down those cancer associated fibroids, very critical, and that's the reason, one of the top reason of failing of managing cancer. And we doing that when you break down the fibrosis, and you're increasing the infiltration of the cytotoxic T cells and your infiltration of red blood cells and the oxygen and you are shifting the immune system into cytotoxic T cells. This will turn the cancer from being cold to be hot and reactive and destructive, right, cold, immune tolerance, T, regs, right, to cytotoxic that infiltrate inside the core of the cancer by breaking the fibrosis and getting it from the cancer. So convert. So this will need to convert the immune cold tumors to hot by reducing the immune suppressive cytokines. The immune suppressive cytokines are all the cytokines that shift the immune system into th two or T reg or th 17, and anything that inherits this will help you in managing cancer, Thymosin Alpha. It's one of the top that I like to use to polarize the immune system into th one synergize with th one stimulation agents like Thymosin alpha and MS still to the toy, which will limit the spread and invasiveness of the tumor by preventing those gene expression of the of the five fibrosis

Speaker 3  1:14:47
and all this references that shows that how Ivermectin inhibits the importing alpha and beta mediated nuclear and able to have The replications of HIV and also cancers as well.

Speaker 3  1:15:08
Now, the anti Fibrotic effect of ivermectins, and you know, the Ivermectin has direct effect on on the fibrosis cancer strain fibrosis by inhibiting the transforming growth factor beta signaling. So one of the most critical challenges in treating solid tumor is the presence of Fibrotic tumor microenvironment. It's cancer shade fibrosis, and we know why, because it squeezed the blood vessels, preventing infiltration of lipocytes, drugs and red blood cells, carrying the oxygen inside. And so the more dense your tissue is. That's what's happened to my dad, when we did everything, we start giving them for the low dose chemotherapy, radiotherapy,

Unknown Speaker  1:15:52
photodynamic therapy.

Speaker 3  1:15:55
And the beginning they respond, and they shrink the cancer, but they turn into a dense tissue. Dense tissue that you can see in the CT scan, the PET CT scan is it's like a little lamp inside his throat, in the hyper pharyngeal area, so it shrinks, yes, into a dense tissue that's full of cancer stem cells. And at that time, I have no clue that you know there is other things that MP the treatment or prevent the education of the cancer, and what, what was the problem is the cancer fibrosis and the cancer stem cells, and at that time, I know, you know, the chemotherapy, the radiotherapy, is not going to be enough, because all of this will lead to eventually shrinking the cancer into

Speaker 5  1:16:42
into Fibrotic full of cancer stem cells. That's going to be resistance to everything we are we know to give. The mainstream medicine is giving, and even photodynamic therapy will not work. Even metal and blue cannot stain anymore the tumor because they cannot filtrate the fibrosis. So fibrosis can squeeze the blood disease to the point even drugs cannot pass, and I did not have clue about it. Now I know, and if the time there's time traveling the past, I'll definitely help to save my dad by breaking that fibrosis and by giving the drugs that interfere with the metabolism of cancer stem cells. And if I did that, I may be able to save my dad. I don't know.

Speaker 3  1:17:22
I That's the reason. That's maybe the drive of me to proceed in finding solution for others, and I'm doing this for my dad legacy too, to find an answer for for cancer. And I think we do have now answers, and we just needed doctors to start implementing them and report us. And you know, we have lot of expertise here. Dr Patel Kalpana, one of them. She's here. She's one of the top doctors in integrative oncology, plus many doctors that I trained to load drugs inside place antipartic. That's critical, important, and also with all your experience and skills that you can add to the table and merging and learning from each other, because that's what I like. It's to have it two way, not one way, so we can learn from each other, because I think everybody has something to bring into the table, and it has a value, and doing that, then we can come up with better tools and and think beyond the the

Speaker 4  1:18:34
horizon. And that's what we need to encourage everybody here to do. One of the most critical challenge in treating solid tumor is the presence of Fibrotic tumor microenvironment, the dense collagen, rich barrier that prevent immune cells, that prevent the red blood cells getting the oxygen, that prevent therapeutic agents from effectively reaching the tumor core. This Fibrotic shield is largely formed and maintained by the myofibroblast, which is triggered by the cancer itself secretes chemicals, as I said, to activate, which is transforming growth factor beta into looking 10. Both of them will lead to differentiation of the fibroblast into my fibroblast, which activate by Fibro driven by transforming growth factor beta. And this transforming growth factor beta one can be inhibited by the Ivermectin, and that prevents the differentiation of the fibroblast into myofibroblast and depositing of this fibrosis so inhibition of transforming of vector beta one signaling is a key. Is a key cytokine that promote fibroblast activation epithelium tumors and chimal transition, right? And the collagen deposition and Ivermectin interfere with this transforming growth factor beta signaling pathway, reducing the transcription of fibrosis associated genes. That's exactly what we need. Is there any other drugs that does the same thing? Yes, and we're going to learn about them. There's lists of drugs and peptides and supplements, and we can work together to combine it. We can ask a compounding pharmacy, and there's many compounding pharmacy at the end of the CME sessions here, we can talk about them, and they can help us to get those cocktail we call CANCER associated Fibrotic cocktail, and it will be part of the regime of the cancer, and this will validate the use of Ivermectin. Why are we using Ivermectin? And so when the mainstream medicine or oncologist next to you asking, oh, the Ivermectin is for animals, where it's been approved by FDA to treat recession. I think recessions people are humans. My wife is using it. I don't think my wife is animal. And so I did, took my daughter to a dermatologist, and there's a PA came out and said, Ivermectin is for animals Mhm, and she has a rosacea like, okay, and acne can be complicated with and, and so Ivermectin is FDA approved for human use, for rosacea. And what we're doing, we're just Repurposing, and as doctors, we can repurpose drug because those drugs did pass the safety of the use any drug that's passed the safety, then you can repurpose it for other clinical application. You're allowed to do that because it passed the safety already. It's FDA approved drug, and the Compounding Pharmacy can compound for you, but they need to know the mechanism, how it works. Okay, it's not just it works, and we don't know how it works. Now we know, and now we can talk chemistry, and nobody can challenge chemistry, not even the oncologist, not even the integrative, not even the regulatory, not even the FBI or the FDA or whatever. And YouTube will not shut you down when you talk chemistry, but if you say Ivermectin and without explaining how and why and all that stuff, then you get this PhD. Start challenging you and say, No, divermectin is for parasite. Has nothing to do with inflammation or cancer. Now we know how it works. So suppression of five myofibroid Myofibroblast activation, Ivermectin, prevent the differentiation of normal fibroblasts into Myofibroblast The primary produce producers of the Fibrotic extracellular matrix, and this lead to decrease secretion of type one and type three collagen, fibronectin and hyaluronic acid and softening the tumor microenvironment. That's what we need. So when we are monitoring the effects of the treatment, we need to look at the density of the of the cancer tissue. The less dense, the better. Then your Fibrotic drugs are working, plus you can use some

Speaker 5  1:23:02
pharmacok. There's a RCC. They have ability to get you the markers of the fibrosis, and they can even measure the transforming growth factor beta for you. And you can see the drop in transforming growth factor beta level when you're using those anti Fibrotic drugs.

Speaker 4  1:23:21
So what does the Fibrotic barrier? They block the drug penetration. They they shield the tumor from from the immune surveillance. They prevent the infiltration of the cytotoxic T cells and natural kill sales from going in. They promote immune tolerance, yes. Transforming growth factor, be the even vascular and the tear growth factor. They stimulate the immune system to be shifted to T Rex, by the way, and they suppress the tumor. They support tumor progression, of course,

Speaker 7  1:23:53
because they're protecting the cancer, right? They This is the shields of the cancer, and those shields of fibrosis even helps to protect those cancer cells from radiation, by the way. And so we need to break them. And we break them with divermectin, we break them with shock wave. We break them with those are tan, with nattokinase, with many others, and enable T cells and natural Cal cells infiltration, enable it blood cells infiltration with oxygen, so you can oxygenate and activate the mitochondria and generate the free radicals to induce apoptosis. I say, No, the chemotherapy cannot work without oxygen. So when you're giving them ozone and oxygen chamber, you're helping that integrative, that oncologist chemotherapy to work, then you're helping that radiotherapy to work. It reduce the transforming growth factor beta, reactivating antitumor immunity. Definitely, because transforming growth factor beta, by the way, when it's high, they polarize the immune system to direct and disrupt the pro growth Fibrotic feedback loops, right? And definitely, when the oxygen gets in, the mitochondria is active, you're shifting the status of your tumor microenvironment from acidosis, alkalosis, and we know that will suppress the fibrosis and will lead to shifting the immune system into the th one and cytotoxic T cells to enhance this anti Fibrotic effect. Ivermectin can be combined with Nattokinase

Unknown Speaker  1:25:18
setup tube tastes oral fibrotics that dissolve excess extracellular matrix Shockwave. As I said, I'm designing the Shockwave with specific Watts and herties to break down the my the Fibrotic Sonodynamic therapy. You have those Sonos sensitizers, MATLAB, blue in the cyanine green, they are sort of sensitive, and you can activate them with certain way of sounds. I'm working on that too. Other dynamic therapy will oxidize them to break them, those Fibrotic tissue as well. And also, you can add ampkk activators right to inhibit mTOR metformins. And it does help also to suppress the fibrogenic pathways the metformins as well, because you're preventing the proliferation of fibroblasts and using Metformin.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:11
Conclusion, Ivermectin anti Fibrotic effect is not just supportive, but central to its rule in cancer reversal. And in the future, we will have cancer associated Fibrotic drugs part of the management of cancer. It's not yet in the mainstream medicine.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:28
But after this lecture, and after 64 people attending this lecture, they will spread this information. You're going to add more, and I can hear more lectures. Dr Patel, especially, she will be adding more, edited more and make it even look, sound better. And everybody here, that's what we're looking for, is to evolve what we are learning here to even better virgin. Dr Nair, you will do it. Dr William CLEARFIELD, those are smart people. By dismantling the tumor, physical defense system, Ivermectin, opens the gates for immune reactivation, therapeutic access, Redox based tumor collapse, and this mechanism directly addressed one of the major causes of treatment resistance and relapse in soil tumors. So now we have better tool, and we ask you doctors to start using it, and then come here to our weekly webinars. I have Monday at 7:30pm Dr William 8pm Tuesday, and then you have Dr AJ and Wednesday, we want to hear from you what you you know, what your experiences, your protocols, your dosages, what you have been using, and and I recommend you to load drugs inside plates, nanoparticle. I will train you to do that. I'll come to your office to do that because I need more doctors to do targeted therapy and plus implement all these tools, and don't ditch the chemotherapy. We still can use those chemotherapy loaded side plates, nanoparticle activated with light, and you can get better results, because you want to shrink the cancer by all means. And so one tool is not going to be enough. You need to do all the if there's radiotherapy, that's fine. Just give them some metal and blue and ICG when they're taking radiotherapy. So that's radio sensitive or cis Platine, which will help to increase the focus of radiotherapy and immunotherapy. It's very important that to differentiate those cancer stem cells, because immunotherapy has a hard time to kill the cancer stem cells because their major histocompatibility complex on the surface is not mature enough to present antigen. And so doing things that we're doing, breaking down the fibrosis, shifting the media into alkaline it will lead the tumor and microenvironment. It will lead to the stem cells to differentiate. And when they differentiate, it's easy to get red from them by the immunotherapy.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:50
And when you use immunotherapy, anti PDL one, anti CTL four, I want everybody to load them inside place nanoparticle. Why? Because if you give them nakedly, those anti PDL one, anti CTL four, anti PD one, they will go everywhere, and they will activate the immune system against your self antigen, so you have collides, and you will end up with the same problem, which is draining the immune system away from killing the cancer, and so loading inside places and a particle, and that's what this Big Pharma is called cytotherapeutic is doing even loading anti PDL one, and it's inside prison, will help to get those

Unknown Speaker  1:29:26
antibodies into the pathology, versus going everywhere. And as you see here, how the anti Fibrotic effect of Ivermectin and how it's breaking down the fibrosis and how it's allowing the access of the

Unknown Speaker  1:29:40
immune cells, red blood cells and drugs into the core of the cancer. Mebendazole,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:48
it's it's a Disruptor of proliferation and Angiogenesis and cancer stem cell signaling. And how it works? It works by the intercepting the microtubules this so they do Microtubule Destabilization and Mitotic address. So they react with the with the beat tubulin and prevent the mitosis. And when you stop the mitosis, you end up killing the cancer. So bibendazole binds the beta tubulin, arresting the cells and mitosis, leading to apoptosis. And this is effective in high perforation tumor with elevated K 1s 67 expression. And so when we're using Mebendazole, try to get this marker measured before Mebendazole, and then you will see that this marker will decrease when you use Mebendazole, because all those highly proliferative cells will be ending up stopping from divining, and that's specifically when it happened, when you're finishing up from regimen of the chemotherapy, and they become cancer stem cells. And now there's no chemotherapy, no radiotherapy, right? What would happen? No stress on the cancer stem cells. Cancer stem cells will look left and right, oh, I'm free from stress. So they will start differentiating and dividing right and become aggressive tumor and kill the host at that time, when you add Mebendazole, you prevent that cancer stem cells from doing that, right? So that's the reason, once they finish from chemotherapy, radiotherapy and all that stuff, take them in and give them Ivermectin, Mebendazole, and all the drugs that kills the cancer stem cells, plus that breaks down the fibrosis, plus that disrupts the mitochondria,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:24
plus targeting therapy to bypass any resistance and come up with pharmacogenetic testing so that you can come up with the right chemotherapy and peptides and supplements that sensitive to that patients, and definitely you can finish up the Job and educate the cancer. It's

Speaker 5  1:31:42
the same thing like Ivermectin, the Mebendazole can blow up the mitochondria. Mebendazole induce intrinsic apoptosis, a form of programmed cell death originated within cell by disrupting the mitochondrial integrity. So activate the mitochondria using polyphenols and alpha Lipoic acid and vitamin C and MATLAB blue and all that stuff. And then blow them up right? This particular important in P 53 deficient tumors. So if you have P 53 deficient tumors, because beaver trees, we use it to Brett to reduce apoptosis. And if there's mutation there or deficient then we can induce apoptosis another way, by disrupting the mitochondria.

Speaker 7  1:32:26
It's the same thing, you know, the mitochondrial dysfunctional cause loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Damage the mitochondrial membrane lead to release of Cytochrome oxidize C, which will induce apoptosis and Apoptosome activation. Cytochrome c binds to APA f1 and procapase nine and the cytoplasm to form apoptosomes. This complex activated capsaics Nine, which will turn activate the capsized three and execute the apoptosis. So this is P 53 independent, independence, right? So if you have mutated P 53 Don't worry. You know, we can work beyond that or bypass that muscle. Chemotherapies, which activates the PP 53

Speaker 5  1:33:08
tumor suppressor genes, will induce apoptosis through P 53 right? Maybe dissolve bypass this, making its idea for 53 mutated or deleted tumors. As I said, we can give umbilical cancer exosome, which are rich with P 53 which maybe helps you replenish those deficient but when you use exosomes, try to load them with chemotherapy or immunotherapy or photosensitizers, so you enhance the killing effect of those exosomes. And you can also use BH three mimetics, which will definitely help as well and inducing apoptosis to amplify Mebendazole. Inception, this adjuvant removes survival checkpoints, making it easier for Cytochrome c release to trigger the cell death, which is the BH Mimetics, which block the anti apoptotic Bcl two proteins. A drug is called Venetoclax, and also the Bcl two inhibitors which lower the mitochondrial apoptosis threshold. So you can go ahead and enhance the mitochondrial disruption and blowing up and the ticking bomb and induction of the apoptosis by adding those adjuvants.

Speaker 7  1:34:30
And so this is good for P 53 mutant tumors, which you can measure it by RGC lab. They will tell you this tumor has p 50 mutants. And now you can start, okay. If they are mutant, we can bypass that by inducing the mitochondrial disruption, activate them and then disrupt them, blow them up. And so when you have PPT tumor tumors, they are resistant to apoptosis. So we can bypass that by using the mitochondrial pathway. Especially we have Glioblastoma, melanoma, and we can enhance the efficacy of this pathway by giving the B extreme Mimetics, which will help to disrupt the mitochondria farther and induce apoptosis. And so a lot of chemo resistant cancers, it's because of P 53 mutation. We can now override that by going through the pathway of blowing up the mitochondria after activating it and disrupting it. Even MATLAB blue photodynamic therapy will be good too, too, because the MATLAB blue concentrate side the mitochondria shine the light and it blows them up. Therapeutic advantage works even in tumor resistant to external apoptotic signals synergize with modern apoptosis targeted therapies and preserve healthy tissue due to tumor selective mitochondrias. The good thing about Mito Mebendazole is that they don't work with all any healthy mitochondria. They work mainly with the cancer mitochondria. So that's a good thing. So when you give Mebendazole, you know, not one will, can we can? You know, be worried about it may affect the healthy mitochondria, causing fatigue or no, it actually selectively attack the mitochondria of the cancer. So cancer stem cell suppression underway is by by medazole. They by HUD hog and WNT pathway, similar to Ivermectin. Cancer stem cells are small subpopulation of tumor cell responsible for recurrence, metastasis and resistant to therapy. They maintain their self renewal and plural potency throw development signaling pathway, particularly the Hodge hog and WNT pathway. And so those are the pathways specifically for cancer stem cells, and we can target them by mebenzo So we're looking for drugs that intercept the metabolism of cancer stem cells and the hog, the Hodge the Hodge hog and WNT pathway are two pathways that specifically for cancer stem cells. We can target them, inhabit them with Mebendazole. And now how it can monitor the efficacy of Mebendazole. If the cancer stem cells express the CD 44 and CD 4h then we can go ahead and check that before Mebendazole treatment. And then after three months, we can see the expression of those genes are being decreased because the cancer stem cells being decreased or differentiate. Either they kill them or they push them to differentiate. So mibenda zone inhibit both of this key signaling system there were either suppressing this cancer stem cell maintenance or they pushed them to proliferate, and this will kind of break the resistance the Hodgkin pathway inhibition. The key protein involved is called a smooth, thinned SMO a G protein coupled receptor that activate the downstream signaling, the GL i One, a transcription factor that enters the nucleus to activate the stemness and survival genes. So we break this, we inhibit this, we inhabit the signaling that goes the proliferation of the cancer stem cells. So vibendazole action is to block the SMO activation and the Gli one nuclear translocation, and this then regulate transcription of the cancer stem cells markers like that, the Sox two and AKT four. So we can monitor the efficacy by measuring those human markers of the cancer stem cells, and then we will see decrease in the expression of those markers. And either they will push the cancer stem cells to die or to differentiate, and if they differentiate, they become more sensitive to your photodynamic therapy, to your chemotherapy, to drugs that you are using along with Ivermectin and Mebendazole. So you know, when we manage, when we receive those patients, we want to give them everything we're gonna we first of all, we take their blood, we find out what drugs, what supplements, what peptides they're sensitive to, right including cancer stem cells and the Fibrotic shaded cancer, cancer shade fibrosis, and then we start giving it all loading inside place nanoparticle, cyclodextrin, and hitting it from all different directions, because those kinds of steel cells, if they differentiate, then they become sensitive to the chemotherapy that you're giving. And we can destroy them and eradicate them the WNT B Catenin pathway inhibition, the key protein involved in WNT ligand, it's a Frizzled receptors, the peak Catenin stabilization be Catenin translocate to the nucleus and promote the gene link to the cancer stem cell survival. So the ivermect, the mebenzo inhibit the accumulation of the B Catenin or inside the nucleus right, they blocked it. And Mebendazole action habit that went ligand signaling and prevent the B Catenin stabilization leads to cancer cell either differentiate or death or apoptosis. And so those are how they work. Those mybendazole, they work on specific pathway of the cancer stem cells. So cancer stem cell function is self renewal, resistant to chemotherapy, as we know they they function in like normal cells. They have enough of antioxidant capacity to neutralize those three radicals, so we want to differentiate them, or we want to kill them by intercepting their metabolism, specific pathways that they are specific signaling, and they're the reason why they end up with tumor relapse and mitosis, because they shrink all you. When you do chemotherapy, radio therapy, you shrink the tumor, you kill all the differentiated cancer stem cells, but you cancer cells, but what's left is cancer stem cells. In fact, with chemotherapy and radiotherapy, makes the mitochondria even sicker and shifting the whole thing into acidosis, you end up promoting the differentiation of cancer cells into cancer stem cells, right? And you end up with fibrosis. What's left is, is Fibrotic tissue with cancer stem cells. And they will say, Okay, we're done. We cannot do anything. And that's it. You go to the hospice. So we, as integrative Doctor, would say, yeah, come here. We can take care of this cancer stem cells. We're using this Repurposing drugs anti cancer stem cells, cocktail of drugs and supplements and peptides that we're going to see them in the coming slides, in addition to Mebendazole, nivermectin. And then we give them anti fibrotics, and we give them also all the drugs and supplements that they are sensitive to the to them, to the their cancers by using pharmacokinetics. So we disrupted bybendazole, the cancer stem cell function using intercepting their signaling pathway, like Hodge hog WNT pathway, and eventually we're able to reduce the load of the cancer stem cells population, or we push them to differentiate, and when you differentiate, we can easily destroy them. Synergistic potential of vibendazole based therapy, webendazole, why are powerful on its own and targeting cancer stem cells become significantly more effective when combined with therapies that complement its mechanism. The synergistic agents either enhance the immune targeting, like Thymosin alpha, break down the Fibrotic barrier, like Nattokinase, or push the cancer stem cells to our terminal differentiation, making them more susceptible to education. So we can use Sonodynamic therapy, Photodynamic therapy, that helps to break down the fibrosis and kill the cancer. Yes, that helps. We can use vitamin A to stimulate their differentiation and also HDAC inhibitors, which promote cancer stem cell differentiation. We can use Thymosin alpha to polarize the immune system to th one and kill those cancer stem cells, or cancer cells cells that's being differentiated from cancer stem cells, and we know that Thymosin alpha will enhance the recognition of cancer stem cells, but cancer cell is difficult to be recognized by the immune system. It's better to differentiate them into cancer cells using those drugs, Thymosin Alpha One enhanced immune recognition. Thymosin Alpha One is thymic peptide stimulate dendritic cells in CDA right and polarization of the immune system into th one, cytotoxic T cells, plus it helps to stimulate the natural killer cells. It shifts the immune response from th 2t reg into th one, a critical switch for tumor reclarence and cancer stem cells typically evade the immune detection due to low antigen expression and also due to low major histocompatibility conflict, which is very important to pre important to present it to the cancer. And we find out that Thymosin Alpha does also increase the cancer stem cells to express those measures to comparative conflicts, by the way, but differentiate them is the best way to increase the capability of the cancer cells to present their antigen to the cytotoxic cytotoxic T cells to kill them. Mebendazole reduce cancer stem cell signaling. Stemness and T alpha helps to immune system recognize and animate eliminate the residual cancer stem cells. Sonodynamic and Photodynamic therapy targeting residual cancer stem cells. Yes, so you do give photosensitizers. You give them photo, dynamic,

Speaker 7  1:44:23
photo, sono sensitive drugs, this therapy is. What is that? This therapy uses non thermal ultrasound, so it says the sound is non thermal, but eventually it will activate those sono sensitive, like MATLAB blue like and the cyanine green alpha liponic acid, amino aminovonic acid, a product activation is sensitive generate reactive oxygen species which oxidize and kill the cancer, particularly in Fibrotic and hypoxic zones where conventional therapy fails. So whether using light or using sono, it would help to activate those sono sensitive, photosensitive drugs and induce generate free radicals that will induce apoptosis. All reduce the fibrosis cancer cell stem cell resistance pathway, and then adding sort of dynamic therapy for the dynamic therapy, which physically destroy those resistance cancer stem cells embedded in Fibrotic tissue, complementing the pharmacologic disruption. So adding those therapies is very critical. And I am designing those Photodynamic devices and Shockwave devices. And I think you know, those devices will come up as an essential part of managing cancer, adding Retinoic acid, we know vitamin A, they differentiate stem cells and cancer stem cells, and also HDAC inhibitors like the Vorinostat or the panel binostat, pushes the cancer stem cells out of their stem like state and to differentiate phenotype, which you need To give that vitamin A as much as you can. Carotenoids will help to differentiate them. So it's part of your regimen to give carotenoids. And there's a, I saw one of the system that you put your palm in the system, and it tells you how much of carotenoids you have. This this system is very critical, and I like everybody to be using it in their clinics. First of all, vitamin A is very important to differentiate even your gut epithelium. If your gut epithelium is not differentiated, it's not mature you, even all the drugs are taking, even supplements will not be absorbed. So it's very important. The first thing you do if you want to increase the absorption of your supplements and vitamins and minerals is to normalize your carotenoid level, which is the vitamin A very critical, especially for cancer management, but also for health optimization in general. And you cannot really benefit from any nutrition and vitamins without enough of vitamin A that helps to mature your gut epithelium to absorb those nutrition differentiated cancer cells are less aggressive, more chemosensitive and more visible to the immune system because they have enough major cancer compare the complex that they can present it to the cytotoxic T cells and destroy them, Mebendazole block self renewal signaling the Hodge hog and WNT, Retinoic acid and HDAC inhibitors forces the cancer stem cells into differentiation, making them easier to kill with standard therapies or immune cells. And so I think

Speaker 3  1:47:34
Retinoic acid vitamin A, we talked about this, okay, so very important, we want to integrate all these therapies to support the management and education of cancer cancer stem cells by killing it or pushing it to differentiate. And then you need to also push the immune system into th one using Thymosin Alpha. But also you can use anti PDL one, anti CTL four. And then you need to use all other therapies that increase the free radicals and that disrupt the mitochondria, like Photodynamic therapy, Sonodynamic therapy, and also giving all the drugs that helps stimulate the differentiation of cancer stem cells, which is there, acid and HDAC, all of this will help in getting in from the cancer. So we really need to come up with a cocktail. We call it cancer stem cell sidle or eradicate cocktail or and cancer shaded fibrotics, drugs, and this is going to be the future. You will see them in the market, maybe from now, with 5060, attendees here, attending this meeting, then I think they will start working with their compounding pharmacy to develop those formulation mebenzol reduces the VEGF, which is very important, you know, vascular growth factor. It's a bad thing when it's too much in the cancer, because first it polarized immune system to T Rex and and the macrophage from m1 to m2 and the second, it caused the blood vessels to grow abnormally and kinky. So it's not good hypervascular, but it's not getting the oxygen in because they're kink they're not Lond red blood cells carrying the oxygen to get inside the tumor. Or so we need to reduce and normalize the blood vessels. And Mebendazole works like Avastin, right, similar, reduce the VEGF signaling, suppress the new blood vessels formation and metastatic potential, right? Because those blood vessels will be a channel for the cancer to spread Adjuncts. So adding Resveratrol, adding Avastin, ECGC, curcumin, all this will have synergistic anti VEGF effect, and it's very important to normalize those blood vessels and decrease their because there are, there are just increasing the blood flow, the plasma flow inside the cancer, but not red blood cells and white blood cells because they're kinked. Anti Fibrotic action by Mebendazole, similar to Ivermectin, salt tubulin, develop Fibrotic tumor microenvironment where activated fibroblasts will turn into Myofibroblast which produce excessive collagen extracellular matrix. And this Fibrotic layer act as a physical barrier to immune cells. Right? They squeeze the blood vessels, preventing infiltration of the immune cells limit drug penetration. They squeeze it to the point even drug cannot pass support tumor progression and immune invasion. Maybe this will drop this process by preventing the differentiation of fibroblasts into Myofibroblast by inhibiting the transforming growth factor signaling. And this will soften the tumor bed, enhance the therapeutic access and the immune axis, right? Is that very important to as I said, when you do ultrasound scanning, you know, look at the not just the size shrinking, but also the consistency of the cancer, the Fibro so the mechanism, it didn't have the Fibroblast differentiation to Myofibroblast, which is stimulated by tumor transforming growth factor, beta one, and it will Fibroblast convert into alphasama positive Myofibroblast. And Myofibroblast secretes collagen type one and two and fibronectin and ACM. And by inhibiting that, you can reduce the fibrosis and you can enhance the infiltration of lymphocytes and red blood cells and drugs inside the core of the of their cancer. Maybe the zone have the transforming growth factor beta and using signaling blocking the Alpha Sam expression and micro Myofibroblast transition and deposition of the fibrosis. So those markers are good if we can detect them first by using this pharmacogenetics testing, then we can know whether you know the drugs that you're using. It's working or not, or you can use. You can measure transforming graph, factor B itself level, and you can see that they are reducing with the therapies that you are giving. Collagen deposition, Fibrotic matrix formation. Microfibroblasts Create a dense Fibrotic network, prevent immune cell infiltration, limits oxygen and oxygen and drug and also it the infiltration of red blood cells and even drugs and oxygen diffusion. Pibendazole Reduce collagen production, break down this Fibrotic matrix. But as I said, you add Nattokinase, those are tan and many other things. It does help to enhance the efficacy of here. So the problem with Fibrotic tumors, they they they squeeze the blood vessels which cause the prevention of the immune infiltration, immune exclusion. They even squeeze the blood vessels to prevent chemotherapy from going in. They prevent the red blood cells getting oxygen to go in. So it leads to Hypoxia. And also, you know, the antibodies will not go in two, the anti PDL one, anti CTL four, they squeeze them to the point even antibodies cannot pass through. And so we need to break them. How you break them with all those drugs and supplements and peptides that we talked about? One of them is Mebendazole, which will lose in the extracellular matrix, allowing the immune cells to penetrate, improve drug access to the tumor core, increase the perfusion and reducing treatment resistance, and reverse the cold tumor microenvironment into inflamed microenvironment. And that's what we need, and how we do it. Well, mebenzod and Ivermectin is one way, but also adding other netokinase, Losartan, a Shockwave, you can use a Shockwave. You know, Nattokinase ozone would help as well. And I'll have synergistic actions here. Work together. So doses is customized based on RGC. So when we have any patient with cancer, what we do first thing, send them to RCC lab, get the sensitivity for drugs and supplements and peptides. That's the first thing you do. And you go ahead with CT scan. You go ahead with all the tumor biomarkers. Right the imaging you see, look at the renal function and hepatic functions, very important as well. And then you come up with the right drugs, the right dosage. Make sure you do you able to deliver those drugs and dosage those drugs with Cyclodextrin or with Plato's nanoparticles. So target, called targeted therapy. How much I will use Ivermectin? 12 to 26, milligram daily, or 200 to 400 microgram per kg, two to three weeks, really, you can do more until you get red from the cancer. And it will be good if we can load Ivermectin with Cyclodextrin. And it will be good if we start doing IV of Ivermectin, especially low cytokine nanoparticle Mebendazole. You can go with 100 milligram PID or TID for three to six month, until you get rid from from the cancer stem cells. And it will be great if we can load them inside Cyclodextrin, and you can ask your compounding pharmacy. And if you don't know who's the compounding pharmacy will do this, then you reach out to me, and I can help you. So the CDPM synergistic therapies. When we manage cancer, we go through all the things that we talked about, you know, modulating the Redox. Those are the pair of CDPM, modulating the metabolism, moderating the immune, modulating the regenerative, the perforation. And we use Redox Modulators to activate the mitochondria, and then blow them up, like alpha Lipoic acid, vitamin C, melatonin. And then we also pulverize the immune system to th one, Thymosin

Speaker 7  1:55:33
alpha, the Viscum album, which helps enhance the immune system, and then low dose Naltrexone, which will help to inhabit the th 17, and possibly polarized immune system to th one, and that's something you can add metabolic Disruptors, yes, we use Metformin, Berberine to activate the MT AMPK inhabitant, mTOR, ketogenic diet, short term fasting. All this helps Shockwave, which I'm trying to create a specific Shockwave to break down the fibrosis, Nattokinase to break down the fibrosis, for the dynamic and Sonodynamic therapy to kill the cancer and also break down the fibrosis as well. And I use RGC lab to come up with a list of the drugs and sopranos and peptides that is personalized to that patient. And I do have a book. It's called Personalized Medicine,

Speaker 3  1:56:25
personalized oncology. It's in Amazon. So if you search my name in Amazon, Salaheldin Halasa, you will find out books related to personalized oncology. I recommend everybody to have that book, because it tells you about all the steps needs to be done to manage cancer. All this is written in that book. All this information, you will find it in that book as well. So something you may consider it. And I have many other books in Amazon, just clicking my name and find it there, molecular and Functional Diagnostic, RGC lab, everybody needs to be doing that right. And then you monitor all those, the cancer markers, especially for cancer stem cells, the WNT, the hot hog markers, all that you can find it. You can get it. The lymphocyte mapping, cytokine profile is a good thing to do. Circulating DNA, it's good thing so we can track the tumor burden, circulating tumor cells, we need to know the ratio of the oxidative status of the patient, especially when we try to optimize the health of the patient. When they finish up from chemotherapy and neurotherapy, they're completely oxidized, and you want to optimize it. So it's good to measure the Redox status, and then you start working on optimizing the patient's health, and you can find the you can measure the oxidative stress of the oxidized DNA in the urine, and then when you're doing the health optimization, hopefully will reduce that amount of oxidative stress, because that's part of integrative oncology, is to optimize the health and enhance the immune system to To kill the cancer, MRI and CT scan, PET scan, specifically, it's very important. You need to do it first. First, you know PET scan is very sensitive. Everybody has to have it. And then you monitor the efficacy of the treatment. During the course of the treatment with your son, with your ultrasound, and not just shrinking of the cancer, but also the consistency of the cancer, the less dense, less Fibrotic, the better. That's mean you are in the right path. And then when you do a health optimization, how I can know the patient is health is optimized. Endothelial function test can be tested. Autonomic nervous system, this needs to be normalized. And we do all the things that normalize them, you know, optimize the sex hormone, the metabolism, replenish everything, support the immune system. You know, health optimization is part of managing cancer. You do it in a smart way where you're not supporting the cancer. So that's something you need to learn how to do the tricks. Why, why you're supporting the immune system and the same time you are stressing the cancer, so and stress the healthy tissue and immune system and stress the cancer at the same time. And that requires some check, some training to do that, addressing the clinical gaps. The combination of Ivermectin and bendazole under chronic disease prevention management guidelines form a safe, portable, mechanically practice foundation for reversing and aggressive and recurrent cancer. And in current disease prevention management protocols. We can use chemotherapy, low dose. We can still use all the therapy, immunotherapy, low dose. We don't have regimen, like we don't stop, like human medicine. They have regimen. They have to stop after three months because they're using high dose. And if you go beyond that, it will suppress the immune system. Our dosage, our protocols, does not suppress the immune system, and so we continue using the treatment till we eradicate the cancer. No, stop. And yes, it will cost too much for the patient, and that's why we need to come up with some sort of insurance for everybody. Because you know how much this risk, the risk of having cancer? Anybody here in this in this room, do you know how what's the risk of you having cancer in your lifespan? Almost 50% the flip of the coin, you're going to have cancer. And knowing that, and that's something you need to carry to RFK until they everybody has a risk of having cancer. Flip of the coin. If you go to the graveyard, among six of those people who died, one of them is caused by died by cancer, one over among six of the deaf people in the graves. And the risk of having cancer in your lifespan, it's the flip of the coin, 50% it's very high, and that's the reason we need to come up with an insurance where everybody needs to put money, $100 per month. Everybody, every person born, $100 per month needs to be put in the side so that when the patient or when we have cancer, we have enough money to support that patient life, because it costs too much. And I think if we can turn this into policy, and all of us. We have many people here, 50 people here. If we can take this idea to RFK and it become a program, then everybody has a fund for when, when we have that cancer, and we everybody needs to contribute. And if we have, how many people, six 600 how many people here in the United States, 300 400 million. If everybody has put $100 per month on the side, and that would be put in the whole, you know, on the side, I think we will have enough funds to support cancer treatment when it hits. And it's very critical. It's very important. And it's emerging thing, an emerging situation. It's a similar to having some rockets falling on from the sky on the earth and

Unknown Speaker  2:01:54
destroying the earth. This is the same and equivalent to that

Speaker 4  2:01:59
addressing the clinical gaps, the combination of Ivermectin and dissolve under current these prevention guidelines form a safe, affordable and mechanical and mechanistically precise foundation of for reverse and aggressive and recurrent cancer. So we are better now than anybody else if we adapt all this protocols and more. And as I said, I have a book there in Amazon, if you look at it, there's even more. Then we have more tools than the mainstream medicine, and we have more tools than integrative oncologist, current integrative oncologists right now, because now we have the reason of what they're doing, plus we can integrate the mainstream medicine protocols into the integrative protocols and come up with a comprehensive protocol to kill the cancer. And so conventional, conventional mainstream medicine, they have no they didn't have to touch the cancer. Stem cells often untouched. And now we can touch them. We can, we can inhibit them, right with CDPM protocols. I don't think anybody is in conventional oncology thinks about breaking the Fibrotic tissue into cancer, and now we know it's very critical to do that. And I don't see much of you know mainstream oncologists working on the immune system, but now we know it's very important to polarize them and reprogram them and push them into th one, cytotoxic T cells,

Speaker 7  2:03:26
so And yes, the mainstream medicine using PDL one, CTL four, CTL four, monotherapy only. But we are doing it with many other things, right? We're doing the Thymosin alpha with low dose nitroxon, and then we loading all this into places, nanoparticles like that. So we have better solutions, because if you go with the mainstream medicine protocol giving anti PDL one, anti CTL four, nakedly into the body, then you can cause the immune system to be attacking your self antigen like colise, and that will drain the immune system. And that's a problem. If you drain the immune system in destroying your collides instead of cancer, you are actually weakening the immune system. But us, integrative oncologist CDP, are physicians, we're doing better. The reason why because we are loading those antibodies inside place nanoparticle, which is being done by the Big Pharma. It's called pseudo therapeutic in San Diego, California. What other drugs that we can be used?

Speaker 4  2:04:24
You know, other drugs that can be alternative and can be synergistic to Mebendazole and Ivermectin that breaks down the fibrosis we have, many of them. So in case that, oh, Mebendazole is not in the market, or we cannot compound it. ZZ, doctors, no problem. We have alternative. We can use Albendazole, we can use phenobendazole, we can use thaibendazole, right? Be smart. Don't stick with one thing. If they say, this is not allowed, that's fine. We're smart doctors. We can go to the alternative, as long as they have the same mechanism of action. We can use Paclitaxel, low dose, right? That helps too to break down that works like Mebendazole. Or we can use Vinblastine and Vincristine, and we can use small dose and load and side plates nanoparticles, and we can use it in the state of Mebendazole. What about the WNT and Catenin and Hodgkin pathway inhibitors? Yeah, if you don't have Ivermectin Mebendazole, they say, Oh, you cannot use it anymore. Whatever. Okay. Well, use Salinomycin, right? Use Niclosamide, use Disulfiram, use Itraconazole, which is antifungal, and use Pyrvinium palmate. You can use other alternative drugs, or we can use all those drugs and create a cocktail, and that can help you to do that, where you can hit it from all different direction with all these different drugs, um, mTOR and AMPK and Redox modulator, Metformin, everybody's have access to it. Fin formin, if you don't have Metformin, or you can use Rapamycin in case you want to use natural compound. And you can do all of that. You can use drugs, supplements and peptides altogether, put it together in a cocktail. And I can help you to create that cocktail. Curcumin works the same thing it had the Wnt and notch pathway. Is it a patrol will inhibit the HUD hog Sulforaphane, sulfur, for sulfur, Sulforaphane will target the ALDH positive cancer stem cells and modulate the high stones acgc inhabit the proliferation and transforming growth factor beta. So we can use all the supplements and we can create a cocktail that would target the cancer stage fibrosis, that would activate the mitochondria and blow them up, and that will kill the cancer stem cells, anti Fibrotic. We can use Quercetin Berberine. We can use honor Kuo, Hono Kuo. We can use AKBA so we have other alternative and supplements. We can use NAC we can use alpha Lipoic acid to activate the mitochondria and modulate the Redox. We can use Thymosin alpha to modulate the immune system, along with the anti PDT one and anti CTLA four. We can use ll 37 antimicrobial peptides. We can use the PRP one as an anti cancer stem cell. So we can create a cocktail of peptides, drugs and supplements, and we can label it as anti cancer stem cells, or anti cancer cancer shaded Fibrotic drugs or a cocktail. So we can use all this anti Fibrotic peptides that we have, relaxing peptides. You can use Angiotensin one seven, which is a valuable to reduce transforming growth factor beta and fibrosis. All of this is available and we can put it together. We can load inside Cyclodextrin, and if they are injectable, we can load inside plate, cynoparticle growth factor, antagonist and immunopeptide at TGF, B peptides, all those peptides can enhance the immune system, enhance immune clearance, and we can stabilize them with Cyclodextrin and create this cocktail both mebendazoline, vermectin Act via multi model, as we saw, this is the summary. It disrupted cancer stem cells, which is that something we need it induce Redox imbalance. It will blow up the mitochondria and induce apoptosis. It will disrupt the fibrosis via inhibition of transforming growth factor beta other agents listed here complement or amplify this effect. Therapeutic cocktail from this three may be synergistically layered. And current disease prevention protocols for tumor reversal, stem cell exhaustion and Fibrotic Microenvironment programming. And there's many things that we can do. We can load drugs inside Nanomedicine and Cyclodextrin, and that's something that can help you to do that. And we can use Photodynamic therapy, Sonodynamic therapy, using photosensitizers, methylene blue and the Cy 9d chlorine e6, alpha, libonic acids. Um, anyway. So the conclusion here the Ivermectin bendazole, represent a new generation of repurposed pharmaceutical that function beyond their Antiparasitic origins within the CDP MCs protocol, they are the key agent in disrupting cancer stem cells, signaling induced Redox mediated apoptosis and remodeling Fibrotic barrier coupled with real time RGC lab Testing, immune modulation, Redox balancing and personalized delivery system using Cyclodextrin invasive nanoparticle. These agents and embody the shift toward precision systems on approach that does not just attack the tumor, but reprogram the internal in Microenvironment to support the long term remission. And I think those are the references, and I am done, and we still have 48 doctors in the room, which is good from 60 to 48

Speaker 6  2:10:10
any questions? All right, Dr lass, that was awesome. So there's a lot of questions in the on the chat. Let me you want me to read it for you. Yeah, go ahead. Here's a, let's get this live one, there's a Richard, is that? Is that you? Yeah, yeah. Hi. Thank you very impressive. A

Speaker 8  2:10:31
lot of it over my head, but nevertheless, impressive. Two questions. One is, how are your results? And have you published any results with your combination approach?

Speaker 5  2:10:47
I do have a network of doctors who are adapting my protocols. Dr Patel Kalpana, Dr Joseph James and many others. We're doing it in a personalized case by case thing. I wrote a book on personalized oncology. You can check it on Amazon, and basically those things, it's already been applied. You know, everybody used Ivermectin for cancer and all that. I'm just trying to verify justify it. And yes, there's lot of good reports, whether myself, I did some cancer treatment when I was practicing

Unknown Speaker  2:11:27
pain management, we did see some patient with cancer, and we did some of those protocols.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:34
But with time we I start adding more, and with my network of doctors, we come up with even better approach and more comprehensive

Unknown Speaker  2:11:49
but all those therapies that you have there, it's already there, but now we have the reason and better approach and better monitoring. I do work with RGC lab as well, and I'm consulting them. I work with compounding pharmacy, and I'm helping them to develop formulations. And I do work with network of doctors, which I am recommending them those protocols, and I see that there's a lot of good results from what we are accomplished. I work with Michael Weber in Germany, and I debug from him the Cy nine green for the dynamic therapy project, which is very successful. Plus, you know, they are keeping up with all the progress that we are doing and recommending

Speaker 1  2:12:34
that's great. You know, I am friends with William mackas, and he's, he's lectured, I've listened to him lecture. Neither he nor you recommend abandoning traditional chemotherapy, for example. So why is it that the traditional oncologists don't embrace any of these alternative approaches? I mean, don't they want their patients to actually get better? I mean, it seems incredible to

Unknown Speaker  2:13:03
me I'm different from the extreme of both side of the aisle. I'm again, it's the oncologist, the mainstream medicine oncologist, who are banning the integrative approach because they don't have the approach of managing cancer stem cells, neither Ther fibrosis, neither you know, the the concept of mitochondria inducing apoptosis and all that stuff. So they don't have that. They follow the Big Pharma protocols, a cocktail that's being given, which is mainly the intercept the, you know, the metabolism of the cancers, whether it is genes or enzymes or receptors. And that's what they do, plus radiotherapy and some of immunotherapy, but they don't have the comprehensive understanding of changing the tumor Microenvironment. And the things that we are doing as integrative doctors, plus, I'm again, is the people of integrative doctors who are ditching the chemotherapy, because those chemotherapy they interfere with the metabolism of cancer. Yes, they will suppress the mitochondria, which is something that we don't want, but still, we can use the low dose chemotherapy, activated with light load on the side, place nanoparticle and help to shrink the cancer as much as we can. So I'm with both side of the aisle, using both side of the protocols, but in a smart way. So don't use a full dose, toxic dose, but use 10 to 20% we call it low dose for activated chemotherapy, and you can do it as much as you can, because it does not suppress the immune system. So we're not limited with three months regimen, and if you go beyond that, will suppress the immune system. That's the mainstream medicine does us. We continue giving the treatment as long the patient's sensitive to and we monitor that using personalized pharmacogenetics. So that's the difference between us and the mainstream medicine. And also, I'm against those integrative doctors who are ditching what the mainstream medicine is doing. So I will do both.

Speaker 1  2:14:56
That's, doesn't chemo suppress the immune system straight away. Is it something magical at three months, that it suddenly starts suppressing the immune system?

Unknown Speaker  2:15:06
Yeah. So basically, the chemotherapy, if, especially if they are sensitive. I mean, I'm against giving chemotherapy without pharmacogenetics. It will be good if it's based on pharmacogenetics. So those cocktails that's been chosen by the Big Pharma for a specific drug. Let's say for 50% they're sensitive to 50% are not. 50% will shrink the cancer. 50% will not, in fact, will cause suppressing the immune system and cause a disaster there,

Unknown Speaker  2:15:35
and will speed the process of death.

Speaker 3  2:15:38
So it's good if we do pharmacogenetics and then we come up with a cocktail of chemotherapy, low dose, and activate with light and, yes, giving it to the patients, so we can shrink the cancer as much as we can, and we keep the mitochondria active by giving everything that helps to activate the mitochondria and induce apoptosis. So I don't ditch what has been done in the mainstream medicine. I make it more smarter, more targeted, low dose in the state of high dose, and I will continue doing also an integrative approach to make sure I'm changing the tumor Microenvironment to become a style environment for the cancer. If you do this, then you can have better tools and better chance of her education of the cancer, instead of just shrinking

Speaker 6  2:16:24
it. Richard, just to comment on your your question there. So I work with little chemotherapy or IPT for almost five, six years now. So the reason why I say that is because chemo is actually toxic to the system, especially if your body or your genetics are not inclined with these specific therapies, so you're basically throwing bombs that are hitting other healthy cells that are not actually being absorbed by your system. That's why, as mentioned by Dr Halasa, genetic testing such as RGCC and there are more out there now, which actually becomes a more personalized and individualized approach to specific cancers, rather than just cookie cutting the whole approach. And that's why, that's where we get a big mistake on this, because we're thinking that every breast cancer that goes through our door should be treated the same drugs. So that's why this is this is where personalized medicine now is evolving, right? I agree with you? Doctor? Doctor NAIRU, that's the right answer there.

Speaker 2  2:17:23
Doctor Halasa, yes, I just have to add one thing that, would you give Ivermectin and MEB x both at the same time? What is that? Sorry, would you give Ivermectin and Mebendazole both at the same time? Yes, I will give it, cycle them. You cycle them. What

Speaker 3  2:17:43
can get them together? Or cycle them? I don't see that they are antagonizing. They're synergistic to each other,

Speaker 2  2:17:50
right? But like the patients are on so many different things. So

Unknown Speaker  2:17:59
if, yeah, if you're afraid of

Unknown Speaker  2:18:02
interaction for a long time,

Speaker 5  2:18:04
right? If you're afraid of multi drug interaction because the patient's taking too much of drugs, and you want to just alternate it, you want to be creative there. That's fine. You

Unknown Speaker  2:18:15
know, it's all your perception. I would agree with you if you want to cycle them.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:25
Okay, there was another question in my bendazole, one of the slides you showed that that cancer stem cells, you know, they the cancer cells are produced, and then you can attack them with the chemotherapy. So

Unknown Speaker  2:18:44
I have a patient where we have used the mebenzo and Ivermectin. And I think that that that point is very, very useful, because if by using that, if you see that the there is a problem with the lymph node enlargement or something, you know that you you have created an environment where chemotherapy can work and you can you can intervene, because patients are usually not At a chemotherapy, they don't have a recurrence, but we know that cancer stem cells are there, and if we get them out of the Fibrotic stage, surrounded and sitting there and making their babies, then we can and then they enlarge the lymph node or the lesion, And we can kill them so that maybe a significant sign on the CT scan or whatever way they are following,

Speaker 5  2:19:51
right? Sometimes you push them to differentiate, and then that's the time. But it's very important to do RGC testing or something, to come up with a cocktail of chemotherapy drugs, supplement, peptides that the patient sensitive to, and you can give them, yes, there's no boundaries there, because using low dose, you're not using high dose. And you can give them as much as they can take to eradicate the cancer. To the end, you just hit them from all different direction. Don't stop, because that time their stage four, they are already being committed by their doctors that they going to die after six months and three months, and this is a new battle where you going to use all the tools to save them from that destination.

Unknown Speaker  2:20:37
So today, I saw a patient and was prostate stage four and and

Speaker 2  2:20:46
was treated by by the traditional oncologist and also by the integrative oncologist. And integrative oncologist also tried five or six different combinations of chemo and something which was not being used for prostate cancer. Patient is so much immunosuppressed now and have a very low lymphocyte count, and it is a question that, why to even continue on that? I mean, only one good thing that patient was on was was on these high dose vitamin C. But I mean, you know, when you see stage four, and if they are not four or five different things that you mentioned, it may be not worth the treating that patient, because it's our your attention should be everything. What you mentioned that on the Redox, not just only on the Redox, or not only on the metabolic programming, but also on the immune system, and in many more things that what you mentioned. So I just want to emphasize for the other listeners, if they want to do it, do it right? And, and, yes, you just mentioned about RGCC. But you know, if you are treating patients with all these things for you, you cannot have any treatment for two to three weeks before you draw the blood and send them. So that is the 111, point that they have to understand.

Speaker 3  2:22:24
No, I agree with you. You need to be dynamic, more smart, intelligent, understanding the whole concept of, you know, making sure the immune system is, is, is viable, it's, it's the immune cells are active. It's high at lower level. And you need to give things to boost the immune system. If they are low, you don't just give chemotherapy and their immune system is low, you need to shift your become dynamic, and based on the data that you are getting from the patient, that would dictate your move. So I have a problem with people say, Oh, can you give us

Speaker 5  2:23:01
written protocols that we can just follow. No, I don't want you to do that when I'm teaching you. And what we're learning here, and we're learning from Dr Patel and all of you, is the logarithm, and then based on the logarithm and based the concept there, then I needed to be intelligent and smart use the logarithm of the concept and creating your protocols, in a way it is coming from the your patients data, and that's where you put your protocols based on that specific patient. And so it's difficult for me to come up and say, This is what the I can tell you the logarithm, but I cannot tell you using this and this and that, because this may not be the time for for this patient, as you said, you're giving chemotherapy, and those chemotherapy, they are not maybe they are resistant to the cancer elevation is taking. He did not test them whether they're sensitive or not. Another thing there's priority that you need to build boost boost immune system first, or doing the immune system boosting along with chemotherapy. That's that the patient's sensitive to. And all of this needs require some sort of comprehensive understanding of how to manage cancer, and that's the reason

Unknown Speaker  2:24:13
attending those meetings, it's very important. We have to have a team approach, and so the group of physicians and the new physicians can check with them. It's like a, you know, mentoring kind of,

Speaker 3  2:24:27
right? And there's many like Dr Patel. She's one of the, the top niche in managing cancer. You can she can be your consultant. I can help you all the way as much as you can. And you can reach me. Doctor Nair you he's very expertise in these things, and and many other doctors here that they have the skills and they can help you, to guide you, and plus, you may have the skills that we can learn from you, and you can present it here, and we can learn from all your data. I like it to be what two way you know, that's the best way, you know, because one way is going to be misinformed, two ways is going to be verified and criticized and checked and previewed by all of us. Yeah. Go ahead, yeah, Dr Patel, just to in terms of how we use RGCC, when you mentioned about that, no treatments before drawing the blood, so we we use and consulted the RGCC about this, that the natural therapies, such as vitamin C, peroxide, ozones, can be done before the draw. It's just chemotherapy and also radiotherapy that are prohibited for you not to draw that blood to get your CTCs. I hope that helps. Just going to the questions, Dr Halasa, there's some that are just for you. Have you used these protocols in post BMT bone marrow transplant patients for histories of MDS, high risk for breath versus host disease? I think I don't. I did not use it for that specific patient. No. But if you used it and you have experience, let us know. Or how about a high intense frequency ultrasounds? I think they're pertaining to this breaking of the fibrosis. Ther, yes, that's what I am working on. I have a Chinese manufacturer who I'm working with developing those devices. There are already some devices out there, but I'm coming up with some devices that's going to be unique with the right specifications. I did use shockwaves with patients with cancer, yes, to break down the fibrosis, but I did not use the high focus ultrasound yet, and I'm working on developing it. But if there's anybody used it before, that would be nice to know. Plus there's high frequency ultrasound, which will help to destroy the cancer. And then there's Sonodynamic therapy, which will activate the Sonos sensitive. There's many very important to know, Shockwave, high focus ultrasound and Sonodynamic therapy. There are different Shockwave using it for breaking down the fibrosis. Sonodynamic therapy activate the sono sensitive drugs. So basically, the drugs has to go to the cancer, and then you, you know, you activate to vibrate those drugs they get, they generate free radicals and kill the cancer. And then there's high frequency ultrasound, which will produce enough heat to cause ablation, called sono ablation of the cancer. And so I am working on developing those devices, yes, but I just experienced Shockwave, but I did not experience the solar dynamic. Yes, you can say, but the specification was not correct, because I use Shockwave. So I think we need to have the right specifications for that, and and then the high focus ultrasound. I did not experience it, but I want to see if there's anybody here. Did experience it. That would be good. If not, I'm working to develop it.

Speaker 6  2:27:55
Okay. Petronella is asking, Can we take Ivermectin to prevent cancer?

Speaker 3  2:28:01
Can we take Ivermectin to prevent cancer? I think health optimization and polyphenols and methylene blue, Metformin, Rapamycin, those are more feasible for prevention. I will let Ivermectin for treating cancer, not for prevention. So I like to use natural substances for prevention versus something that's biologically friendly to the body, versus chemical. But I will, you know, use Berberine in in a state of metformin, I use polyphenols and all these things and help optimize the patient. Optimize the six hormones, making sure they don't have estrogen dominance syndrome, because estrogen dominance syndrome is the reason why we have all these high cancers. So make sure you optimize the six hormones and make sure you inhabit the estrones. Now there's lots of priorities that we need to be done. Like, let's say a patient has estrogen dominance syndrome, and then you give them Ivermectin for prevention. Doesn't make any sense. You really need to manage the estrogen dominance syndrome of the patient, you know, optimizing their six hormones. And we can help you to do that. And there's a book for that, which is called estrogen dominance syndrome that I publish it in Amazon. You can look at that book as well and do prioritize things and use more of supplements and prevention versus the Big Pharma as much as you can. So the answer, from my perspective, no, I will not use drugs for prevention of cancer. I will use supplements as much as I can.

Speaker 6  2:29:37
I agree with that, because I have encountered this in the clinical setting. And again, Ivermectin, no human trials, so just to put it out there. And safety, long term, high dose safety is the issue here. You have always to remember that it can create drug interactions, neurological effects and even liver toxicity. So that's right. Preventative measures are best, rather than putting your money on Ivermectin, Doctor Mike actually put his number there for his we're not going to announce that, but they can read it, but they can contact him over there, put cell phone and even the pharmacy's number and lipid envelope. Virus like COVID destroys our glycocalyx coagulation factors in micro vessel lining. Do you think we are possibly seeing increased cancer stem cells because of this? Can you repeat that question? So he's saying that COVID is destroying the the glycocalyx, the lining of the of our blood vessels, and also coagulation factors are getting created in micro vessel lining damage. Do you think there's a possibility see increase in cancer cell, stem cells? Yes, of this phenomena in relation to COVID?

Speaker 3  2:30:49
Yes, that's another book I wrote about immunological insight of COVID, 19

Speaker 7  2:30:58
vaccine. It's one of the book that published in Amazon, it talks about it, yes, the vaccine, the spike protein does cause this compromised immune surveillance because it shifts the immune system into th 17.

Speaker 3  2:31:15
And when you shift the immune system into th 17, you end up with this chronic inflammation plus mast cell activation syndrome. All of this can also can enhance the estrogen dominance syndrome as well. This will compromise your immune surveillance, the cytotoxic T cells and th one, and put us at risk of having cancer. So basically, because of it, it shifts the immune system into th 17 and mast cell activation syndrome, and that's the reason why we have high risk of having cancer, and we need to come up with protocols that breaks down the spike protein Nattokinase, curcumin,

Speaker 4  2:31:58
make sure You fix estrogen dominance syndrome with optimizing the six hormones, MATLAB blue may help. So use things that helps to optimize the health of the patients, and break down those spike protein if the and if they are too much, they have a lot of immune conflicts, and they're being toxic with other things like microplastics and all the chemicals that we've been exposed to, then the last resource is going to be apheresis to get rid from all this immune complex and decrease the toxic toxins burdens. But there's a there's a there's a good regimen that Dr Peter McCalla using bromelain, Nattokinase, curcumin, matlambidoo, and optimize the health in general, looking at any metabolic problems in the patients, optimizing six hormones. All of this would help to kind of enhance the immune system, and then to make sure that your immune system is balanced, test the lymphocyte mapping and cytokine profile. Look for head and chronic infections and and help to tackle all of that. And if the immune system is being imbalanced, then you need to give things that helps to balance immune system, Thymosin alpha, other things that helps to make sure that you have strong immune surveillance for for against cancer. Otherwise, yes, you know this chronic spike protein it does goes exhaustion to the immune system and and compromising the immune surveillance right? And Johnny sharing that he's using a glyco check test device to check microvascular health scores, and he's seeing that correlation of lower scores of this device as also a lower risk for cancer. So it's a it's a device that you put under your tongue, so it's, yes, I know about it. And there's endothelial function test as well, which is, you squeeze the blood vessels of your finger, and then you see the refill of the blood how, how fast they refill, or you see it on the you see the retinol under the lung. Those are indication that you have oxidative stress and inflammation. But again, I don't want everybody to relate it to spike protein and COVID. There can be other factors as well. And so when you approach this, because this, this, this entity of dysfunction is caused by many things, including COVID, yes, toxicity, heavy metals, the chemtrain that happens in in Florida, you know, a lot of people are inhaling those jet fuels and things like that. All of this could be a factor in causing damage in the blood vessel. Now, how I can get rid from fat soluble toxins? What is the detox for that? EDT, a will not touch it. Will do the water soluble like calcium and heavy metals. But if you in order to get the fat soluble toxins, like those microplastic in those bins products and jet fuels and all that stuff, even then spike protein use Cyclodextrin loaded drugs or loaded supplements. Cyclodextrin loaded with ETA, something that the compounding pharmacy can do it or suppository or Cyclodextrin loaded with curcumin. There's some supplements you can see that in Amazon, and then Cyclodextrin loaded with Alpha Lipoic Acid. It's also valuable there. Or the compounding pharmacy will start creating for you all the supplements loaded with psychotic because psychodexia helps to clear the body from spike proteins and also from fat soluble toxins. Thoughts on vive bed bioharmonic. Ask question by Johnny, what is that? Vive bed bioharmonic. So this is a device that produces vibrations and sound. It's like, I think this is in relation to your fibrosis, destruction around the cancer. I don't know if you've used this sounds has to be specific to break down the fibrosis. Now the sound is music that you put in the air. I hear some, some people, they have that sound of harmonic sounds, which is the something that sounds. They say in the Pyramids of Giza, they they have that harmonic sounds, whatever it helps to induce sleep and relaxation and reduce the oxidative stress and increase the oxytocin happy molecules of the brain. Yes, that helps to boost the immune system. I am with the the, you know, the sound that increase the happy molecules in the brain that that makes you enjoy to listen to it. And there's lots of experience to prove that they have cows. They give them, they open music for them certain sounds, not the rock music. Rock Music decrees the milking, the amount of milk, but when they use those harmonic vibration sounds that that's enjoyable, that increased oxytocin. The milk production of the cow increased, and I think it's part of oxytocin mediated effect. Same thing like giving patient ketamine or giving patients those, what we call it,

Speaker 3  2:37:20
psychedelics, also they increase oxytocin. So and oxytocin helps to reset the whole physiological process of your of your body, including boosting your immune system. It's like when your computer crash and your Chris on a receptor factory. That's oxytocin, what it does and and so it's very important that patient with cancer who are told that you're going to die after six months. When you receive them as integrative oncology, you tell them, we have the tools that the mainstream medicine does not know about it, that we can work on it, and possibly we can indicate the cancer, give them that hope, the hope itself that he's going to survive, the hope that he's going to fight this cancer. It definitely help to increase oxytocin and boost immune system, and many cases that it does help in prolong their lifespan, sometimes they end up

Speaker 6  2:38:10
winning the cancer. I always remember your story about how these faith healers heal their patients, and we see them on TV, they just come out without disease anymore. And you did mention that oxytocin kind of plays a big role in these faith healers on how they magically heal a disease. So that's another way to remember how oxytocin works and how it can heal. So Eric questions, what lab do you use to measure CD, 4044, I think you mentioned RGCC.

Speaker 3  2:38:42
Yeah, RGCC lab has many, many markers. I like it. Now, the question is that which I'm going to visit their lab, by the way, and I'm going to work with them, and we're going to verify everything, but they have lot of tumor markers, like crazy, and including all of this. And,

Speaker 7  2:39:03
you know, that's something you can use it to monitor the effects of the treatments,

Speaker 6  2:39:10
right? And another follow up is, can we use signature instead? What is that signature? So, yeah, it's another company

Speaker 3  2:39:21
I don't care. I mean, if it's being verified by you, I'd like the doctors to visit those labs and verify and tell us, hey, I went to this lab. It's good. It's right. I'm going to travel to Greece and verify the RGC lab.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:36
And whether it's negative or possible, I'll be honest with you guys. Oh, if, even if they hire me, I'll make sure that that I am I'm straight, because what's important is the credibility. But if there's any lab that's better than RGC lab, go for it. Just verify it and tell us. We visit those labs and they're good, because the FDA did not approve any of those labs, right? And reason why I did not approve the FDA. Let me tell you about the story about FDA so that we know. Because they will say, this is the PhD for them. They will say, Okay, you did the pharmacogenetics, and you come up with a list of drugs that's been sensitive to the cancer, right? But here's the trick. After two, three weeks, four weeks, even one day, even one month, two months, the cancer can change. And all the drugs that's sensitive, they become insensitive. That's true. So that is the reason that they are putting their they are shooting down all those labs. But doesn't make any sense, because still, it has a valve, because at lung you can start with this, and then you come up with targeting therapy and possibly break down any resistance that's coming up. But that's the reason that the FDA has, again, it's the slabs,

Unknown Speaker  2:40:53
right? Just to enlighten our viewers what signature is. It's actually a circulating tumor DNA assay, and this is usually used, as far as I remember, only on solid tumors, and they also get a sample on the biopsy to be sent to the company, along with blood test monitoring to see these changes in the in the DNA. So it's a DNA based test rather than a cell based testing, as you mentioned, about CD 44 but this is definitely something that's being I think it's, I'm not sure. Don't quote me on this. I think it's being covered by insurance now and being used by conventional medicine. But it's actually has a 95% positive predictive value in clinical studies. So that's something in the in the conventional world that's out there. How much vitamin A? Yeah, how much vitamin A is recommended. I think they're pertaining to Retinoic acid, as you mentioned, an upturn if it's really vitamin A you were talking about.

Unknown Speaker  2:41:48
Yeah, yeah. I mean carotenoids in general. I like that. You know, when you go to those exhibition there's a place where you put your palm in the machine and it just spectrophotometer tells you about how much carotenoids you have

Unknown Speaker  2:42:02
that that kind of test. I like it because it's instant. But normalizing vitamin A or carotenoids, it's very important because it helps to differentiate all the cells of your body, including cancer cells.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:17
And it's very important because if you have deficit vitamin A, then you have high risk of having cancer as well, especially the epithelial derived cancers. So it's kind of protection of prevention is to normalize your carotenoid level, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:42:33
Just a caution. I've seen this clinically that some some integrative doctors using vitamin A retinol in very high doses. So you have to remember this are oculartoxic and even liver toxic. I think safer doses would be less than 10,000 international units, and Retinoic acid, I think, is more related to the cancer approaches. Another question is by Dr miliora, will both Ivermectin and Mebendazole across the blood brain barrier. Will this work for meningioma or brain cancer?

Unknown Speaker  2:43:07
Ivermectin does not penetrate the brain. It will be a disaster for penetrates the brain because it does cause problem with calcium interference and all that stuff, and non neurotoxicity as well.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:22
So they are big molecules. They don't penetrate the brain. So when you have kind of this drug, but I don't know about Mebendazole, I'm not sure about it,

Speaker 3  2:43:34
so you need to use alternative to ivermectins, which we list them that breaks the fibrosis, and MATLAB blue is a good one, especially for the dynamic therapy with but so that's that's something that I know, but I don't know about the zolos fir trading the brain. If anybody here can help us with that, but I know Ivermectin, it's big molecule does not pass the brain, and if they die past the brain, it can lead to neurotoxicity.

Speaker 6  2:44:07
I think I can vouch for Mebendazole. Mebendazole actually does cross the blood brain barrier at higher doses, though, a good evidence for you would be there are actually early phase trials now by John Hopkins investigating on Mebendazole for gliomas in pediatric brain tumors. So that's still in the works, but out of I guess Ivermectin is it also has this ability to go through brain, blood, brain barriers, but it really has to be high doses. So again, that's those are early phases that I've seen Petronella. You have a question? Go ahead.

Speaker 2  2:44:38
Oh, yeah. I watched some of the series of Jonathan auto and I attended some seminars with neuropathic and she said that for the brain cancer, Albendazole, it's good,

Speaker 3  2:44:53
yes, could be abundant zone. I don't like Ivermectin because Ivermectin is neurotoxic, and you don't want them to penetrate the brain at all, as much as you can, but when you have patient with inflammation and cepatopathy and all that stuff, you make sure that you don't give high dose of fibromectin because it may make things worse, and that's why I don't provide I don't recommend drugs for prevention. But there's alternative to as Ivermectin that does the same thing, like Ivermectin, and that can be done, which I think I already list them in this lecture. And in case you have brain tumor, you may need to use all those drugs, including Mebendazole, plus other drugs that helps to get into the brain without causing neurotoxicity. That's very important. And with the air of chat GBT, then you can ask those questions, and they can tell you about all the list and all that stuff. So I want doctors here to use chat GBT in your practice, because it does help to abstract all the information that's in the web and data and and provide you easy answer and fast answers and comprehensive list, and don't shy away from chatgpt. It's a good tool that all the doctors needs to be learn how to use it.

Speaker 6  2:46:11
All right. Another question here is, compt is affected negatively by Quercetin comment.

Speaker 5  2:46:21
Quercetin, what's happened to it? Comp? The Comp gene is affected by Quercetin. I don't know if that because you probably mentioned Quercetin as part of your botanicals. Yeah, Quercetin is anti Fibrotic, and also Quercetin to activate the mitochondria. There's many action for Quercetin and in in cancer stem cells and anti Fibrotic, especially IV, yeah, just to comment on that, yes, it does affect the so we have to remember Quercetin, actually. So you have to remember that top mutation is Val, Val or met. So individuals with so fast comp, which is Val, Val, may benefit from temporary comp inhibition, done by Quercetin, thus enhancing dopamine. But the slow ones, which is the Met, may experience more over stimulation, anxiety and estrogen build up. So that's where probably that comes into play. Do you recommend utilizing these protocols as preventative or only for only post diagnosis?

Unknown Speaker  2:47:29
Which protocols, I guess, the protocol

Speaker 5  2:47:32
that you just the ivermect, Ivermectin and Mebendazole? Well, we talked about it. Do you supplements, alternative and that work like Mebendazole, Ivermectin,

Speaker 7  2:47:43
polyphenols, optimize the health. All of this will help in prevention of cancer. And then there is, you know, you can do some sort of genetic testing to know if you're going to have risk of those cancers. And you can use the chatgpt, once you get those genetics tested, that you're going to have high risk of having breast cancer or higher risk of what is the supplements that I can use for patient with high risk of breast cancer because of genetic testing that has and it will help you to come up with the list of supplements and peptides that you can use for those patients. So I like it to be personalized, and I can help you if you don't, I need, if you need help in that, in cancer prevention. But I like it to be also based on genetic testing. And you can do genetic testing. It's called genetic testing for for cancer risks. So if you have a patient who has family history of cancer, and you do genetic testing and and then give me those genetic testing I will run it through because my chat GBT account, I wrote books under it. And so they learn all the protocols and all the logarithm and then I can help you to come up with a list of drugs that specifically for that that counteract the genetic defect or mutation that the patients has, and what supplements and that the patient peptides that the patient needs To

Speaker 3  2:49:17
to overcome or prevent the cancer from happening, it will be good if it's been personalized. So there is cancer prevention personalization based on genetic observation. Does that make sense? Yeah, you should probably build your own chat. GPT. Sounds like you have all of these resources that you could already feed information to, and by itself, it's a huge database from what I'm hearing, yes, yeah. So the judge, GBT, learns from you, so the must, the more information you add, and he learns your blueprint, and you learns your logarithm in the way you think, and he will represent you. And the more you wrote, write books under the chat GBT, the better he will be and respond in the way that exactly what you're looking for. And everybody has to have an account for that, and then use it a lot and ask you all these questions, and direct your chat GBT, and what time you will find your jgbt itself. They evolve, I think there's experiments about that. They, they have bots. They they they are like playing soccer. They're a little bit robotic, small robotics. And they give them the algorithm to play the basic play those bots. And then they find out that the AI is learning tricks with the, with with the with the practice that they have never put those information in. So I AI can learn new information by their owns, because they have built logarithm to acquire skills, same like humans,

Speaker 6  2:50:59
right? So, Heather here, how is Fenbendazole? 444 milligrams as compared to Mebendazole?

Unknown Speaker  2:51:09
You mean equivalency? So I

Speaker 6  2:51:11
guess they're trying to see the effectivity against cancer. They're putting it head to head. I think that's how I interpret it, unless Heather is here to confirm that. So she's just asking, probably, what's better for cancer?

Speaker 3  2:51:28
Well, lubendazole is the prime drug, and then all others are kind of modification, whatever is available for you. Just go ahead and then the dosage. Make sure you don't, you don't use beyond the therapeutic dose that's been approved by FDA, because that's a safety you don't go beyond that. And you start with lower dose, like 100 milligram, and then you go up and make sure you don't go into the toxic dose. And those variation of versions of drugs, they have maximum dose and toxic dose, make sure you don't go beyond that and and when you combine it with many other things, you don't need that high dose because, and it's better to be to be combined with many other synergistic supplement that works the same way, so that you don't need to have high dose of that drug, and you can hit it from all different directions, and you prevent the resistance from developing when you are using multi drugs versus mono drug, right? And I do agree with you, Mebendazole has more clinical trials that goes along with in relation to cancer. And the real story behind Fenbendazole, it was actually hyped up by this businessman named Joe Tippins, and he has small cell cancer, and he used Fenbendazole, curcumin and CBD. So the problem with that is the behind the scenes, the people that people does not know is he's also was using a medication called he was on monoclonal antibody during which he didn't put a lot of emphasis on, but he got cured from the small cell lung cancer. So that's why the focus was on it. They thought it was from bendazole that did this, but yes, the studies still fall on the bendazole rather than from bendazole. Again, no trying, and no harm in trying, but you can still entertain that. The other question would be

Speaker 6  2:53:30
a next in testing, would that show apoptosis? I don't know if you're familiar with that

Speaker 3  2:53:38
test. Is it test for testing apoptosis for the cancer. It's a yes, it is okay. Are you familiar with this? Well, if you see that the P, v3 is mutated and there's test for that, then you need to figure out how to bypass that, whether by mitochondria induced apoptosis that we talked about. Or you go ahead and introduce P 53 by using umbilical exosomes. Or there's any way to correct those P 53 any drugs that works on it that will be good. So use all the tricks, all the methods that helps in over you know. What about you? Dr Nair, do you have anything to add? Yeah,

Speaker 6  2:54:26
I've never used it. I've only heard of it again. It's a test for apoptosis. But to be honest with you, I have no experience, so I cannot probably answer that question fully.

Unknown Speaker  2:54:40
Oh, go ahead.

Speaker 2  2:54:42
So I, I'm attending another group, and we are talking, we talk about the genetic testing, actually, he gave us to test, so I have an account that I can offer this test, and he's working to make protocols to like, let's say, if patient has a test that he has genes for that will predispose him for cancer, then he works also on the protocol, some something with AI that will come With supplements to prevent the cancer. It is similar to what the doctor tonight said, and they also have ASEA water. So this is something new that we are talking every week about Asia, water that promotes apoptotic.

Speaker 3  2:55:36
I see a water, let me, let me, let me go with that, because I'm the person who reach out to those people, and I know the guy who is, he's a physicist, about that sea of water,

Speaker 4  2:55:47
there is a problem with those things that we are entertaining. We want to make sure that we don't get any misinformation here. What is a sea of water is it's Redox potential of the water. It's more oxidative. So they have, they think about, you run electricity into the water, and you reduce the water to hydrogen. So you have hydrogen, rich gas. This is one side of the water, and then you have oxygen, rich cat. But what's oxygen? Rich water, right? So, hydroxide, rich water, and they separate them. So now there's lots of machine where you can have Redox potential positive, which is oxygen, rich water, or hydroxide, rich water, or free radicals, rich water. And then you have the other side of the water, which is hydrogen, rich water. And both are good and good for healing. But, you know, drinking those oxidative stress water, it may stress up your tissue, your gut epithelium, and it helps to kind of induce anti inflammatory effect, but it's not as effective for patient with cancer, so it's you cannot replace this with things that we're doing. It may help in a little bit, optimizing the health of the body by stressing the tissue with oxidative stress and generating a response of anti inflammatory, or giving hydrogen rich water, which will help to neutralize the free radicals, which will help to optimize the health and possibly enhance the immune system. But it could be an adjuvant, but not as they are promoting as something that will educate the cancer. That is something I have a problem with. I see a water it's and I know about it, but basically, if you open it, and you leave it open, the effect of it will go away, because those, those it will easily neutralize those electrons they will get in, and they will neutralize the effect of it. So you have to drink it and and basically it will stress the body to produce some sort of anti inflammatory. So it's good for health optimization part, but it's not something that you say, I'm going to use it to use to eradicate the cancer as the things that we talked about. Does that make sense?

Unknown Speaker  2:58:19
Yes. But they do not say that they're treating the cancer only with Asia water they use as an adjuvant. But still, I feel like they put that it's so amazing. But I took, I had some Asia water, and I feel I felt good, but not it was amazing. I mean, it didn't make such a big difference for me.

Speaker 3  2:58:44
Yeah, yes, it would not make that such difference. But the way that they are promoting it and marketing it, it's way, way crazy and false claim, and the FDA is going after them. I mean, I like the hydrogen rich water, and I like the other side, which is the Redox potential, the oxygen rich water. It's the same, like ozone, all that stuff, but it has to have the right claims and any exaggeration to marketing it and then give false claim about it and aggravate its effect in a way that it's curing cancer or something like that, or it's due curing autoimmune diseases. You know, this is just crazy claims, and I think that needs to be stopped, or needs to be limited, or put breaks on it so that we will not mix the bad apple with a good apple,

Speaker 6  2:59:44
right? So when you hear cure run away, right? You can't claim a cure or treat. So do you know that's a red flag?

Speaker 3  2:59:50
Exactly? Especially cancer. Anybody say a cure cancer has no clue about cancer, especially cancer, because, let's say a patient has colon cancer. You remove that part of colon, but you have a colon tissue that's still there that has a risk to develop cancer. Unless you remove the whole column, there's no colon tissue, you know, remove the whole tissue, then that's so that's why, when you have breast cancer, one, they say, well, remove the other one, because the other one has the cancer that has a tissue that has a risk to become a cancer, and that's why they remove both breasts. If you have thyroid cancer, like a carcinoma, like I have, and they remove the whole thyroid everything. Then, yeah, that's that can we can say I'm being cured. But other than that, all the other cancer, you still have the tissue there inside the body like you still those tissue can become cancer. So I like to call it remission, in a state of cure.

Speaker 2  3:00:56
Oh, so I want to say Doctor. There is a doctor that I forgot he's, I mean, I don't remember his name right now, Dr G, I don't know he. He came with a list of medication for cancer, and it was olive leaf extract, Berberine and enough in oxidor curcumin, I think. But this were some of them. I also want to say that one time I saw a patient and they told me they have a relative, and they cured complete the colon cancer with podiarco. And sometimes, when I went to vitamin store somewhere, somebody told me, podiaco, it's very good for cancer. And because I had, I had my best friend, she had cancer, and actually she died of cancer. And so I was very much researching about cancer during that time. So pod I heard and another patient told me they use barley, green barley. And he said to me that his wife had breast cancer, and the doctors told her that she's going to die. And he gave him, he gave to her barley from the grass, powder and two teaspoon three times a day, something like that, and she left. She lived another 15 years. This is what he said. And another thing that I read, it's detoxifying the liver. Detoxifying the colon also helps with the cancer, to cleanse the liver, to detoxify, because our liver. It's a kind of loaded and function only 10% of his capacity. And if we enhance the liver activity like then it helps with cancer, detox, detoxifying the colon, cleansing the colon and the liver,

Unknown Speaker  3:02:59
right? I believe in all these things that does help, but does not say this is going to

Speaker 3  3:03:08
eradicate the cancer for everybody. It may happen that one patient did benefit from it. Cancer got eradicated by one of those supplements. So other way, but it does not apply for everybody, in order to come up with something that's appliable. It has to be comprehensive, include everything that we talked about, everything, and then it has to be monetized and with all those biomarkers and making sure the immune system is healthy, making sure that you know, you're able to visualize all those cancer cells using PET scan and ultrasound and making sure that you are giving all those different drugs and supplements of peptides that the patient's sensitive to, and not to narrow yourself into to one way or other way. And as much as you're giving those comprehensive drugs and supplements and peptides, including things that you talked about, could be part of it, but not everything, and and because cancer is very, very intelligent creature, and if one patient happened that he's been had remission because of one thing does not apply for everybody. So you cannot take this and apply for everybody, and say, Everybody take olive oil, extract, and your cancer will will go away, or

Speaker 2  3:04:29
it's good to have it as to research into this purpose and as an Adjutant, yes, yeah. And then breast cancer is reduced by half with olive oil. This is what I there was a YouTube video about two hours they said that olive oil, the polyphenols in the olive oil, decrease the rest the risk of breast cancer by half. But

Speaker 3  3:04:54
it's not going to be applied for everybody. It could be for certain people. They're very sensitive to that pathway, and it's working, but other people will not. So it's difficult. You cannot say it's going to happen for everybody, but it's some. It does not mean that we ignore adding it to the cocktail, because it does have factor, and some people are more sensitive to others, same like any other drugs and supplements and peptides. And what's important is to come up with those testing to make sure that the patients are sensitive to those supplements and peptides and drugs. And that gives you better prediction that this is going to work.

Speaker 2  3:05:34
Yeah, right, and that it's a doctor from Canada, Ther il Burma Terry, naturally, he has some books. I think, I think he has a book about Cyclodextrin too on his website, right in this, this were some of my resources that I read when I did my research. But my friend, she used

Unknown Speaker  3:06:01
cure of all diseases by a PhD, and she didn't want to get chemotherapy. She didn't want to do anything. And then was too late, and she died. And then she didn't want to leave to anyone. Yeah, so now

Speaker 7  3:06:14
we know what we need to do. We just need to come up with the list of drugs, whether it's chemotherapy or not, doesn't matter, drugs, peptides and supplements that the patient is sensitive to. And then we work on knowing exactly all the tricks of the cancer that we talked about. And I have another lecture before that talks about more about the tricks of the cancer. And then, based on the data of the patients, you start working on putting together the protocols, and also you need to make sure it's affordable for the patients. And using artificial intelligence will help you a lot to make sure that those cocktail of drugs that also match his financial capability as well. There's many factors, as when you practice in medicine, and it's not just what you want to do and what can be done. It also the patient can afford it or not, and that's where you need to be very smart, and how to do it in a way it makes sense, and it's the most effective, efficient way of managing that patient.

Speaker 5  3:07:25
How much methylene blue to take for preventive prevention, prevention of cancer, asked by Heather,

Speaker 7  3:07:34
I like to get 10 milligram a day. Will be good if you want to go and but have a break one week like try to do breaks. Don't take it and wriggle the regular basis. Um, but they are very powerful. When you have infection, when you have feel sick, when you feel tired, just take MATLAB glue when you have even

Speaker 3  3:08:05
bad breath. MATLAB blue helps to get rid from all those bad bacteria of my mouth. And I never have blue at all since I start taking my I'm one of the doctor who start MATLAB blue, promoting it, and especially when heads COVID, everybody's doing Ivermectin, I was promoting a lot of MATLAB blue. And we did around, around 100,000 scripts a month for Matlab blue. And we did save a lot of patient with, I, with, with, with Corona and people would they end up with shock because of the infection and end stage of COVID infection, I was able to serve to make them to another, save them, save their life, and their blood pressure drops and and their oxygen level went down to less than 40, and blood pressure was, I think, 40, over 60, and it's going down, and they're ending up into septic shock. When I gave them MATLAB blue IV, I was able to raise the blood pressure back to normal, plus the oxygen saturation, and some patients survived because of MATLAB blue IV, and it's part of the logarithm. When all the protocol septic shock is it's fail and the patient is ending up dying, you give them IV, metal and blue, and you can save them some protocols in septic shock. In some hospitals, they already listed MATLAB blue IV as a last resort to save patient with septic shock, but was good for for COVID as well. So again, MATLAB blue is a good thing to have it at the corner. RFK is using it, by the way, and many, many people are using it, and it's something that I put a lot of emphasis on it when I was doing the education at that time, when you go to Amazon, there's no MATLAB video except the one that's for lab and for fish tank. And now it's like crazy everywhere, and that's because of the effort that me and my team and possibly some of integrative doctors here, they did very good in bringing MATLAB blue into the table and recognizing as very important drug. It does help a lot of and since I taking it, I never have blue at all of zero. I never suffered from flu. And so I think that's, that's a good thing about MATLAB,

Speaker 6  3:10:46
right? And I agree with you the sepsis study that you're talking about, that's an RCT. So if you really want proof that's, that's what, you get another one. Any use of DMSO for cancer penetration,

Speaker 3  3:11:02
there's lots of application of DMSO. I prefer Cyclodextrin over DMSO. But if you have any good results out of it, why not? I know DMSO is good for pain, but, but I like psychodextrin over DMSO.

Speaker 6  3:11:25
Yeah, we use the MSO also, but it's more for our nutrient therapies or easier penetration. But I don't know if you're talking about using it with chemotherapy. I have never heard of that. So it's really more of nutritional and integrative, more of interventions. And signature is approved by FDA, covered by insurance and Medicare. And we have a colleague now with the ICU. Sorry to hear that the brain cancer doctor son planning to give Mebendazole. What is the dose of Albendazole, or maybe Mebendazole? I think you mentioned about 100 milligrams, VID, for three to six months, and you want to cycle right? Uh huh. You can go up to three times, yes,

Speaker 3  3:12:11
again. Make sure you're not passing the toxic. You know, use them. Use what's, what's approved by FDA, the max dose for any drug that you use. Don't go beyond that, because you got in trouble. That's how the Repurposing drug. It's okay as long as you're using the same therapeutic protocol, therapeutic index of what's being approved to because that's the safety. That's the the amount of drug is safe for the patient.

Speaker 6  3:12:38
Yeah, I don't know it's he's in the ICU. I don't know if the hospital will allow that, but you definitely can try. You know, they have strict rules over there, but yeah, again,

Speaker 3  3:12:48
raising with them. And you show them all the evidence of publications that support what you're doing, and you tell them, I'm taking care of cancer, fibrosis and cancer stem cells. And you explain it to them, I think the oncologist will go along with you and support it. But if you just say it works, and you don't explain it to them, they will be resistance to to go with it, because then their brain is just, this is where bendazole is Antiparasitic, how it's going to be anti cancer? You know, they don't know. And you need to come up with explanation of those publications and references to explain to them why you're doing it, right? So you actually blew up our chat board, Dr Halasa, and this is the last question. So we really appreciate you. How you made us know about this topic. So Heather, if a person has taken Ivermectin preventative and perhaps took too much. How do you detoxify? Or Ivermectin? Just stop taking him as much as you can. I don't know about is it fat soluble? Ivermectin? If it's fat soluble, you can use Cyclodextrin. If it's water soluble, you can possibly use EDT, a zeolite to detox, charcoal activated, maybe so depend of what is the soluble, fat or or water soluble. Those are things that we know that helps in detoxification. But I will look and see if there's any anti dot for Ivermectin and anniculation for it, and I will let you know, because I don't have something in my mind, and I'm not a fan of Ivermectin. To give it like this, I really want to give it for situation, um, because they're a lot of people are using it like they are using it like giving it like vitamins. And that's something I'm I'm against it,

Speaker 6  3:14:38
yeah, um, Magda suggested milk thistle. So I agree with that, because, as I mentioned a while ago, it's being metabolized in the liver. So if you help that liver move further, milk thistle, glutathione, Phosphatidylserine, phosphate, choline, I think that's again, when you say to toxicity, you go to the hospital, you definitely want to do it. But if this is just something that you want out of your system because you're taking too much these natural therapies to promote liver detox, if they can probably be best,

Speaker 3  3:15:09
all right, please don't give too much of Ivermectin because it's less, yeah, you're not doing favor for the patients,

Unknown Speaker  3:15:18
Right? That's correct. I

Speaker 2  3:15:19
wanted to say maybe either MCT ID goes to the brain, or also I read because I have a patient with multiple sclerosis, and I saw a video that where a doctor was saying that it seems like multiple sclerosis made of it's caused by parasites. But then I researched about it by MCT in and MS, and it says that it helps, and it did hear me, it causes to Remy alienation. So it's good for the white matter in the brain too. Well, we

Speaker 3  3:15:56
don't Ivermectin is not we don't use it to perpetrate the brain, because they are big molecule, and the we it's not because it's neurotoxic, so you don't want to get it to the brain. And the idea that it's going to help

Speaker 4  3:16:12
multiple sclerosis, it may not directly into the brain. It may help the immune system by inhabiting the TF 17, the but outside of the brain, so the immune system just suppressing the th 17 from outside, possibly, yes, but there's many other things that can be done for multiple sclerosis than Ivermectin to inhabit the th 17. I will not use Ivermectin for multiple sclerosis period. There's many other drugs that inhibit th 17, like Naltrexone. You can use MATLAB blue. You can you can use a lot of things, and you have to inhabit the th 17 and th one. For multiple sclerosis. You can use Thymosin beta, BBC, 157 BBC, 157 by the way, I fell on my back from one meter and a half on my back, like my back bent on the concrete, and break the even the the granite on on it. And hopefully I'm, you know, thankful God that there's no bone breaking, but there's a lot of smashing in the muscles. And what I use, I use toradol, which is crypto lac injection. And I use BBC 157 and it's like a miracle. After maybe three injections, some three days, I have really no pain. Um, so BBC 157 do work, especially injectable and something that you may consider loading and side plates, nanoparticle, and maybe when the acute condition, you add kit or lack, you can help a lot of patients with with acute inflammation, acute damage, plus healing muscles and and regeneration by PBC, 157, So PVC, one seven, and it was good for multiple cirrhosis, vitamin B, 12. And there's many other things that you can do for inhibiting th, one th, 17, one thing you can add there growing studies for MS would be estriol. So estriol creams has been used in patients, especially in males with MS, and they had shown in studies to prove these neurological symptoms. So it's more of the immunologically stimulating effects of ethree, basically, and produce strong possibly as well. Any of those normalizing sex hormones will be part of your regimen for managing any autoimmune diseases, because those Israel and progesterone, they are anti inflammatory and regenerative,

Speaker 6  3:18:50
right? So Doctor Halasa, you gave us basically one year knowledge about cancer today, and you have gained so many fans in our chat room here, so I actually definitely will send them over for the Monday webinars. So yeah, attendees today, by the way, 63 it's up there. We got 70 before. But yeah, you're a popular guy, so we can't stop them from seeing you. If the fans are there, I appreciate that. I'm popular because of you. You have very good connections there, and you, you brought all your tribes from overseas as well here, that's what I hear. Yeah,

Speaker 3  3:19:37
we're gonna thank you very much. I appreciate that. Yes. So, yeah, any final words for our audience, and also anything you want to I want to learn from you and from all of you, and I want you to present and add more to the table, because I like the two way of information, and I want more data from you guys reporting all this thing that we do, plus you evolve it make it better and sound better and and I want to hear from you, that's what my last message will be.

Speaker 6  3:20:15
Well, thank you so much again. And well, I'm sure you're going to be back with us. And just to tell everybody that Dr Halasa is a regular in our program, and he will be always giving out the knowledge for everybody to learn from. And he's always up to date. He's always going

Speaker 3  3:20:29
and we have the CME link for this, right? Do you know Nair? You have it? Yep, we got it. Please make sure that everybody will participate in the CME. I provide the CME for for this group, plus my group on Monday, plus the group of Wednesday tomorrow, and it's good to part to get your CME from here. It's worth it, and it's coming from American Medical Association, from Michigan University, by the way, by a surgeon or so. But I provide the CME for for for this group,

Unknown Speaker  3:21:01
and it's from Michigan University.

Unknown Speaker  3:21:03
And I posted your link for your Monday webinar, so everybody can jump in there and join us also. So for that and the TME, did you post it there? The CME link for today? The CME is there? Yes. Okay, great. Alright. And also for international doctors.

Unknown Speaker  3:21:20
So make sure that all the people from Vietnam and Philippines that you're from Philippine, right?

Unknown Speaker  3:21:26
Originally, where from Vietnam, Philippines, Philippines, Philippines, Philippines. It's also for international doctors, by the way, they can get the certificate as well, and they can get equivalency and credit by your medical boards.

Unknown Speaker  3:21:42
All right, there you go, see there's a reciprocity so everybody can so it's been designed for international and national doctors and also for nurses as well, for all healthcare health care providers nationally and internationally.

Speaker 2  3:21:58
Well, we can take a course. We can take a course from you, a certification.

Unknown Speaker  3:22:02
Well, that's something me

Speaker 3  3:22:04
and Nair. Dr Nair, you we need to work on that, coming up with the chronic disease prevention we already been approved by CME, and we have books, as I said, in Amazon, you can there's a book for chronic disease prevention, management. I know, Dr Nair, I think you are the listed in that book. By the way, I know Dr Benoit is in it, but I think maybe you put you in. If not, then we need to come up with books together. And yes, we can come up with some sort of fellowship for CDPM, which, because it's been approved by it's been entertained by American Medical Association. So if you go their website and you click on CDPM, chronic disease prevention management, there's a group of doctors there. They're entertaining this field of medicine, and I'm working on putting fellowship program for this field of medicine. But something we can do, yes, you know, when you're attending this webinars and you're getting your CME from it. It's part of it. And everything we teach here, it's part of the whole big picture. But it's good if it's been structured in a way that we have, you know, a complete, structured course of fellowship for Chronic Disease Prevention management. I'm working on that.

Speaker 2  3:23:19
One more I have to ask a question, Doctor, this is not related to cancer, but it's something that I am concerned about. It about the patients I read sometimes in substance that some patients, they have some kind of rubbery clots in the veins. I don't know from the vaccine. Is there anything to do to prevent

Unknown Speaker  3:23:42
the doctor

Speaker 3  3:23:43
better? McCalla protocol, Brolin, Nattokinase, curcumin

Speaker 5  3:23:50
does help in in breaking those Fibrotic lung if it's been loaded with Cyclodextrin, something I can help you to refer you to some compounding pharmacy who can help you to develop that. So, Nattokinase, bromine, curcumin, all of this helps in those cases

Unknown Speaker  3:24:13
of those fibrotics, you know, the clotting things, by

Speaker 5  3:24:19
the way. And he attended one of the meetings and invited him to present. And he has the bakala protocol, and it does, does help those cases. What do you think, Dr Nair Yeah, well, I was just going to tell them that Mike Manuel's foncac is on the I think that's who you're pertaining to, right? So he's, I don't know, Mike Manuel, you're saying the compounding pharmacy, um, the Yeah, yes, strive pharmacy is another one that I'm entertaining as well.

Speaker 7  3:24:55
Okay, Manuel can do it if it can't, then there is stripe pharmacy. Matthew Dr, Matthew Montes, that we met in Vegas, remember, we have dinner with, remember, right? So that's another one that

Speaker 2  3:25:13
that you can work with and and to prevent sudden death. Because some, some substance, also, they talk about sudden death, some percentage, whatever, very small percent the people have sudden death. Is there anything, anything that we can do for that

Speaker 3  3:25:31
health optimizations? That's what you need for all the patients. And you need to check, you know, looking at his he obese? Looking at his six hormones, looking at his gut health, looking at his toxicity, you know, I like to say, help up with optimization, and that would help to minimize all the sudden, death and sickness and things like that.

Speaker 2  3:26:01
Okay? Do you think it's something that destroys the northern system, or something with the oxidatory system in the heart?

Speaker 3  3:26:13
You mean talking about COVID and vaccines, biocardites and clotting and all that stuff.

Speaker 2  3:26:20
Again, some sudden death. They are talking seeds and sudden death from the vaccine. This is another,

Speaker 3  3:26:27
yeah, well, the reason of sudden death because of the vaccine, is changing the immune system, and also it's causing activation of TF 17, mediated inflammation and possibly affecting the heart rhythms and affecting those conductive tissue of the heart, and that may stop working certain way and lead to sudden death. So basically, if you optimize the health of the patient, and you able to detox the body from those spike proteins by breaking it, by chelating it, even if it takes if they are so so severe, because I have patients have encephalomyopathy, a doctor, by the way, who took vaccines because he got to take it, because if he didn't take it, they will kick him out from his hospital. And he told me, Doctor, I have to take it. And he fell off since he and he was with in our group, by the way, and I asked him to use integrative medicine. He said, Well, if I use that, they may stop the insurance paying attention if the doctors know I'm using this. So it's a crazy thing. You know, they control your healthy control, even a doctor I'm talking about, but he say, I went to Egypt and he took some oil from it, and he helped him. But I'm just saying health optimization. And look at all the beta bullet deficiency. And Dr Nair use one of the top doctor does health optimization. And I can help you as well, if you send me any case. And I will, I will run it through my artificial intelligence, and they give me everything that patient needs to be health optimized, because I train my AI to do all that. And it has, they have the logarithm. And I can help you. Any doctor here needs help. Dr Nair is presence. He can help you. He has lot of skills. I can help you. Dr William CLEARFIELD is intelligent, doctor, and then you are intelligent too. I get I will learn a lot from you, and I will teach my AI to absorb everything you have. And that's how things works. Thank you. You're going to be Yeah, my website, cdpmcs.com, and phone number 713-291-6123, you can text me anytime, especially if you're a doctor and you're looking for innovations, or you're looking for adapting all those protocols, especially loading drugs inside plates nanoparticles. I can definitely help you with that, plus many more. Dr

Speaker 6  3:28:56
lass, one last, one last question, what is the best way for chelation from Heather? What is the what? What is the best way for chelation, according to Heather? Um,

Speaker 3  3:29:12
so this is something I want to I don't know if Mikey man will here strive pharmacy. I don't think he's psychodext and loaded EDT A, that's the thing, if you can do it for the compounding pharmacy, because the EDT a would take care for all the heavy metals and minerals, and then the Cyclodextrin would take care for the fat soluble toxins and microplastic. If you can do it so busy, that would be great. If you can do it IV, it's fine, but more convenient is supatory Cyclodextrin loaded with EDT A plus you can do zeolite, activated charcoal and all that things, and milk diesel and knack and all those things that we know. But EDT, a psychodexter and suppository, will be the bomb for detox and plus, if the patients is still toxic with all of that and still inflamed, then the last resort is apheresis.

Speaker 2  3:30:10
I wanted to train to do apheresis, and I took a class in that

Speaker 3  3:30:16
I can take you to Germany. I went to Germany, and they have a system there. Anybody wants to travel Germany, we can go there, and it's $5,000 to detox. I met with one of the Hollywood singer. Her name is blondie. I don't know if

Speaker 4  3:30:37
you know her. You know Blondie, it's called, she's a singer, and I met her there, and she did the detox in that clinic in Munich, I think Munich in Germany, and I have doctors there, but in Hollywood clinic, I have a Hollywood clinic working with klatz, Dr klatz, Ronald klatz, the founder of Afra m plus, Dr Joseph James, And we are working on something is called gravity after races, which is not the machine centrifuge. It's just more of gravity thing coming from France. It's called micro pharma or something. And they are getting those little bags to do apheresis for microplastic. So I'm working on that. And they have a little filter that has MATLAB blue and red light, by the way, to detox. It filters made from stain with MATLAB blue and has red light to detox the body from any infection, things like that. So yes, I'm we are working on that direction as well. And you can meet with Dr juice James in Hollywood. That's the clinic that I'm kind of part of Ther, and they're adapting my protocols. And we can meet in Hollywood, Florida and and if, in case, you want to be trained to do all those things, oh yeah, I would like to, okay, sure you got my phone number, my website, cdpmc.com, 713-291-6123, you can reach me at any time. Anybody here wants to reach me. No problem. We good. Well, yeah, we are so good. You actually, this is the longest episode that we have recorded ever, as I remember. So that's it. Is good. I got some highest thing, right? So you enlighten for the 24 doctors who are left. Hey, props for you. That's dedication. Yeah, that's great. So we're going to put them on YouTube, right? You putting on YouTube? Can you send me? Yeah, we'll send you the recording. I will put it in my

Speaker 3  3:32:38
YouTube as well. But I think YouTube will take it and they will not put it down, because we explained that all the chemistry, and most of the people on YouTube their PhD, and once they hear chemistry, they just approve it, right. Shame on them if they do remove it. So no, they don't want they will not,

Unknown Speaker  3:32:58
all right, so we're good, yeah, we're good.

Unknown Speaker  3:33:02
Take care everybody. And

Speaker 6  3:33:05
so some announcements for next week. We're just going to have Dr Shallenberger, Mr. Ozone, as we call him. So make sure you get ready for that good lecture. And you know, he's world renowned. And on November as the groups combined, doctor Halasa group, our group, homeopathic board, the osteopathic group, are planning a conference in Reno on November. So we're going to keep everybody posted about that. And this is a huge gathering of integrative minds all in one space. So, but that's in the works, and we're definitely going to keep you posted. So overall, I think this was a good wrap and a good night for Integrative Medicine, and I'm thanking everybody that you are all part of it. Thank you Good night, everybody. Have a good night, everyone.

Unknown Speaker  3:33:56
Thank You. You

Unknown Speaker  3:34:07
have A good Night. You


Transcribed by https://otter.ai