Unknown Speaker  00:26
Hello, hello.

Bill Clearfield  00:28
Dr, Chris, how are you? Thank you for being with us again. Well,

Speaker 1  00:31
thank you. Thank you. I for some reason, my video won't start. I apologize for that. I was on a Microsoft meeting earlier today, and I didn't want to start either.

Bill Clearfield  00:41
Yeah, well, runs. It runs in threes, I guess I

Speaker 1  00:45
whenever it comes to technology, as long as it turns on somewhat, it's a victory. I know

Bill Clearfield  00:55
you get asked Fred over here, Fred knows everything.

Speaker 1  00:58
Yeah, it's hard to perfect you know, to know everything is a burden, my friend, I'm

Unknown Speaker  01:08
sorry that was Michigan.

Bill Clearfield  01:13
I did great. I had two weeks off. I couldn't believe it the first two weeks I've had, I had one other week off in the last four years, on a Tuesday. So, so, yeah, it was, it was nice. So,

Unknown Speaker  01:26
we're in Michigan. Do you go

Bill Clearfield  01:28
Southfield? It's near Detroit. Oh, I, I

Speaker 2  01:31
used to have a climbing Southfield WB donner, right by the puncture train, or not by the puncture train the iwani Hotel.

Bill Clearfield  01:40
I don't know that my kids live there, so that's where I stay with them. Yeah, I got, I got the father in law suite, you know, off the kitchen. There we go, away from the kids, you know, with the dog, right? No, they don't have a dog. You know, they have chickens out in the backyard, though, you got four chickens, four or five chickens and two goats. Yeah. So docs,

Speaker 1  02:09
you can see my screen. We do, yes, okay, cool. I usually do the test run, go between one slide and another, make sure it's all working. Copacetically,

Unknown Speaker  02:18
yep, we're looking good, awesome.

Speaker 1  02:21
I'm sorry my video is not working.

Bill Clearfield  02:27
Well, we'll forget it working. Great. If not, we'll make do. So,

Speaker 1  02:32
yeah, you're not gonna see much looking at me. So,

Unknown Speaker  02:35
well,

Bill Clearfield  02:38
good looking guy. What are you talking about? I

Speaker 1  02:40
have my LED lights on, radiating my frequencies above me in Oregon. So it's like, and I did not powder my bald head. I'll leave it there. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:53
we call it follicularly challenged, not Well, I'm getting there myself, actually. So took a little that's

Speaker 1  02:58
how I started. When I was about 22 with a full head of hair.

Bill Clearfield  03:04
Yeah. So, yeah. So, yeah, it seems to go so my father had he wore a baseball cap his last 10 years. And so until he moved in with me, I didn't know that he didn't have any hair left. So, so everybody had a had a good couple of weeks off for whatever it is that you did. I hope it was peaceful, and we're raring to go now, right? So they're going to do great things this year. So So I think I don't remember, Chris, the last time you were with us. No, we're able to give CME credits. Now, wonderful. I don't know if that was available the last time you did it. And, and we'll send you if you want the video, and we'll send you the participant list, also

Speaker 1  04:06
wonderful. No, and I have a whole series of talks. So when they're assuming that you all want me back, I got, I love to share, as all of you do, that's why you're in your society is it's all about sharp iron sharpens iron, just all becoming a little bit better. And you know, I graduated in 92 and Doc, I know you precede me, Dr Kirk, but I mean the things we did not know back then, and now we're like, wow. Okay, so it's more complex than we thought it was, and that's just the tip of the proverbial iceberg of the nuances of science and trying to keep up with the magnificent human body and living organisms.

Bill Clearfield  04:46
The one that really worries me is that, and I was considered pretty good at it this, we would get a thyroid test. First of all, we didn't know what the order, except for the we knew about the TSH, and all I knew was that if it was high or low, I had to send them to a to an endocrinologist. And I didn't, I didn't even know know what it the high meant low and the low man high. So God knows of how much we missed. Oh,

Speaker 1  05:16
and it's continuous. I have a good medical doctor friend that actually lost his license to work in Oregon because he was doing measuring free t3 and factoring that in and reverse t3 and the medical board did not like that. The intrical knowledge that TSH t4 TSH t4 anything other than that, you're not doing what you're supposed to be

Speaker 3  05:39
doing. Yeah, that's sadly. So, hello, hello, I'm listening, Doctor. Barista is here listening to your conversation.

Speaker 2  05:47
Yes? Well, great, great to hear you. Great to go. Yeah. So

Speaker 3  05:51
that's sadly. So, because there's still many endocrinologists there still stick to TSH, they don't want to order anything else. Yeah,

Speaker 1  06:00
and today's talk incorporates a little bit of sick thyroid syndrome as just part of the conversation of when we starve ourselves with intention, does our body consciously know that we're doing it on purpose, and we you know? So I'll have a little thyroid conversation. I have a whole thyroid lecture that I've given for Institute for Functional Medicine Before, I used to educate on the male hormones, the adrenal and the thyroid for them, All right,

Bill Clearfield  06:34
let's see when you're available.

Speaker 1  06:38
Yeah, then I have another lovely talk on the benefits of fertilized egg yolk. Of course, we know an un fertilized egg, but the moment we get fertilization occurring, all kinds of magnificent biochemistry starts occurring, and its ability to lower myostatin and improve iris and help with the anabolic resistance. So yeah, we can. Let's see how this one goes. And we folks want to invite me back. We could talk about all kinds of fun things,

Bill Clearfield  07:03
all right. So we like, we like everything thyroid and anything a little bit quirky like that. We were good to go.

Speaker 1  07:10
If you have me, you have quirky, that's for sure.

Speaker 4  07:15
Okay, is that a forte? Tropin? Dr, Chris, yes,

Speaker 1  07:21
yeah, that's what sport appropriate from Myos. MD, it's they've been in the vet business, or the vet in side of things. They have some 300 veterinary hospitals, and they have an interesting canine study where they basically did the knee replacement on the dogs, and they looked at the disuse syndrome, and there was no atrophy for the dogs taking the phototropin. Whereas, of course, we would expect tremendous atrophy when you're, you know, basically, you know, healing up and, yeah, it actually helped with protein synthesis. In a Berkeley study in humans, 18% increase in protein synthesis within 21 days, and no change in diet or lifestyle in older population. So this is oral, right? That's oral, just fertilized egg yolk, as I think, eight patents and, yeah, so I'm feel free to email me. And you know, I don't have my email here, but I could put my email on the screen real quick here. I love sharing, and right now I'm dealing with my younger sister with a metastatic breast cancer, and I, unfortunately have became somewhat of a nuanced expert on inflammatory breast cancer that has metastasized. So that's my email from 1996 natural med man at hot now. So anybody's welcome to email me. And I know what I know, and I do not know what I do not know. So I love learning from colleagues as well. We're all stronger together,

Unknown Speaker  08:57
agreed?

Bill Clearfield  09:00
So So Dr Nario, tell us about your exciting adventure coming up this year.

Speaker 4  09:05
Oh, well, I'm going to be starting my fellowship with Andrew Weil integrative medicine in in University of Arizona, in Tucson. So, oh, thank you. That's going to be a really exciting, I guess, venture for me is it's been, yeah, it's been one of the things that I've always been planning to do. And of course, I will give you updates as soon as we can. We're going to be branching out over there. You're

Unknown Speaker  09:36
going to let them right? Yep,

Unknown Speaker  09:38
we're going to spread the good word. You're going to

Bill Clearfield  09:41
have them all on Tuesday nights at five o'clock on here, right? We're

Speaker 4  09:44
all going to be crunched up in one screen, that's right. So we're going to make it part of the assignments,

Unknown Speaker  09:53
okay? But yeah,

Speaker 4  09:54
we're still going to be here, and definitely we're going to be keep on going. You'll,

Bill Clearfield  09:59
you'll be telling you'll be telling us where we've been going wrong all these all this time. So

Speaker 1  10:05
well, I gave a lecture with a graduate of Andrew wild school back in 2001 and her name was Wendy cahootsu. And Wendy cahootsu medical doctor at Oregon Health Science, diversity, local medical school, and we were speaking to the fourth year medical students. My pitch was five years ago. The people that sat in these chairs, you folks, dwarf the diagnostics, the therapeutics. I bet five years from now, unless you're a perpetual learner, that they're that's how they're going to feel about you. But Wendy Kahoots, who from Denver wild School of Medicine, or, you know, the fellowship there, said, I'm going to tell you something. Your doctor, your professors in tell you, antibiotics do not work. And she said it with a definitively straight face here, I'll repeat it, antibiotics do not work. I'm like, oh, Wendy, where are you going with this? And she's and she's been put to caveat, without a competent immune system, we should give an example of a immunocompromised person, whether it be HIV or whatever, full blown AIDS and antibiotics, just don't have the where forth and move the needle by itself often. But that was her philosophical volley to them to think about things a little differently than what think one thing solves all problems. So I'm assuming that came out of some of her training from Andrew Wyeth.

Speaker 4  11:21
Yeah, it'll be interesting. Some of the I've been reading the the curriculum already, and they're really into just plain old natural stuff. They don't know about rapamycin. They don't have all of these new stuff that's coming. Peptides. I'm sure there'll be some of it there. But the curriculum is straight up integrative medicine, if you look at it,

Speaker 1  11:42
yeah. And I have a good medical doctor friend, and he was in charge of diabetes at Providence Hospital here in Portland, where I did some of the residencies for my students when I was a dean at the naturopathic University. And he still, to this day, will not recommend a single supplement. He says, diet and lifestyle, diet and lifestyle. And so he's more naturopathic, so to speak, than myself, or more philosophical, like, I blend, you know, I have a DEA number. I write for, you know, I do the CTS, MRIs. I do whatever is necessary to help move the needle and meet the patient on how deep of a hole they've gotten themselves into. And I often give the example of a tow truck. Once a while, you're veer off the road, you're in a ravine. Thank goodness for the tow truck.

Bill Clearfield  12:30
Okay, so those of you who don't know, thank you all for coming back. Hopefully we're going to have some very exciting talks this year and some really good knowledge. And Doctor Quinn afterwards, maybe you can opine If Doctor Tano is not on about what's going on with our research group. But tonight, the kick off the new year for us, we got Doctor Chris melitis, who's been with us before. Doctor Chris is a prodigious, accomplished educator and physician. He's an international author and lecturer. He believes when people are educated about their body, is the moment when change begins. He's written over 200 published scientific articles in 2003 was named physician of the Year by the American Association of naturopathic physicians, and he's been the driving work force behind 16 community clinics to help the support and underserved in the Portland, Oregon area. So doctor, Chris, we're honored to have you as as our you know as we do, we will have the didactic part is CME credit. And in the emails every week, you can get the the links for that, and I'll put the link in in a little while a couple of times for tonight, tonight, also you get two ama CME credits. It's $20 No, it's $30 sorry, $30 to AMA CME credits. And I'm going to turn over, turn it over to Dr, Chris melitas and Chris take it away.

Speaker 1  14:13
Thank you, Doc. I really appreciate the invite. Nice to meet you all, and it's wonderful. Have forward thinking colleagues. I'm going to share some things that I have found interesting, and we've all seen the trend for wayovi and ozempic and some of the other GLP one drugs. And as with all things, there's good and there's bad. And as I mentioned early on, you know, I prescribe medications, there's a list of side effects, and we know there's some side effects with those drugs, but we're not going to talk about side effects today, except for the fact that whenever we do rapid weight loss, whether it be a bariatric surgery, another fad diet. You all might remember when HCG injections were all the rage. Do an ACG injection and eat 500 calories and lose a massive amount of weight. But the question is the quality of that weight. I wanted to start with the 272 1017 Korean Journal physiology of pharmacology. Picture here that shows a electron transport chain and the citric acid cycle, also known as a TCA cycle. And you can see with our patients, which are overweight obese, that we have a decrease in the efficiency of the CREP cycle. We have decreased beta oxidation, as you can see with the red arrows going downwards. We have increased reactive oxygen species. And we have a shift in things, including a increase in mitochondrial DNA mutation. As we all know. We have our nuclear DNA, our Thank you Mom, thank you Dad. And then we have our Thank you mom, for our mitochondrial DNA. And we all know there's that epigenetic consideration of sure we have genetics, but diet and lifestyle pull the trigger. But then you can see what individuals which are exercising, uptick in the TCA CREP cycle, uptick on beta oxidation, which also, of course, with the browning of fat and burning of calories and onwards throughout the electron transport chain. So just a glimpse of the things we learned back in undergraduate, and then when we went to our degree, to programs, we learned all this biochemistry, but it had little to nothing to do with our applied clinical practices. So the trend, of course, with the BC, which we're very familiar with. But I always like to share slides which are self evident because they give us a little quotable quotes for our patients. Because we know the science, we learn the science, but then we translate the science into English. And as a result of translating that science in English, our patients will become appreciated, appreciative of why we're telling them what they're doing. And I live here in Portland, Oregon, actually Beaverton, Oregon, right by the Nike campus, right by Intel, lots of high tech folks, people that are smarter in their fields than I can ever imagine being. And a lot of them, as we've all experienced, have then taken that same intellect and intellectual acumen and then done their Google searches and their PubMed searches. And they come in virtual experts in their field, at least they believe so, because they don't have that clinical experience. And they come in talking about all these biochemical pathways and so forth, and meeting them where they're at. But ultimately, I often will challenge those same individuals with little little stones on my desk, I have little glass stones, and one says Peace, and one says harmony, and one says health, and one says wellness, and so forth. And I will often put my hand on my desk with as though it was the camel's back. And I put three stones on my back of my hand, and I have on the third stone, my camel my hand falls to the table, the consultation table, and I said, So, which one broke the camel's back? And they said, Well, the last one. And it might be peace, it might be health, it might be, you know, happiness, whatever the stone says. And I said, Well, let's do it again. And so I do it again. And I says, Well, which one broke the camel's back? And this time it was faith or something. And like, no, no, no, it's the total burden. And we all know this. But so once again, that concept and the beauty of the medicine of how did we get to where we are? So as we can see, obesity has grown tremendously. We see it the diabetes metabolic syndrome, sometimes what's referred to as type three diabetes or Alzheimer's disease, but that yo yoing really kind, of course, messes things up, and the mitochondria become at come at play, we will have lean body mass. We have detoxification issues, but when we lose a large quantity of fat, what happens? We're losing a lot of toxins. But with wayovi, the GLP ones, or any other diet or bariatric surgery or whatnot, we end up with some challenges. So rapid weight loss leads to sarcopenia, obesity and an uncompensated toxin release. And so now you imagine, if we're on a diet, whatever diet led us to our problem with needing to lose weight, and that now we're going to portion and cut a percentage of that diet out with a GLP one, or bariatric surgery, or what, any other restrictive diet, so we're now getting less micro macro nutrients, less glutathione support, less whatever, and now, but we're releasing all these yester year toxins and forever chemicals, and that becomes a problem. So what I like to do in clinical practice addressing enhancing the mitochondrial function and addressing you thyroid sick syndrome, which will be kind of a fun few slides. And then we're going to talk about mitigating muscle loss with rapid weight loss, and why being overweight is a risk for regaining weight. That one's interesting. So I'm overweight, I've been a desk jockey forever, and I'm working on my 19th book. And so I can say, I tell everybody, I've proven a couple of things. I have tremendous endurance when it comes to gluteal muscles being squished and I'm a glutton for punishment, or just sitting in front of my desk and having musculoskeletal issues, but being overweight leads us to a higher level myostatin, and having an elevated level of myostatin increases our potential to regain weight, which is very, very interesting. We'll go into a little bit of a dive there. I have a much longer talk that, if you folks want me to do in the future, I can. And then we have micro macronutrient deficiencies. They say that 75 to 80% of us are low in one or more vitamins or minerals. Obviously, Vitamin D is a big one, but a line is pulling back in the 70s that there will be a day when Vitamin C is much like flour and sugar on the shelf, and you will buy it by the pound. You know, we haven't seen that yet, but once again, as human beings, we don't make vitamin C from glucose, so we have the four enzymes, one of them shut off, but our cat does when it gets stressed. Our dog does, but we don't in Guinea pigs, fruit bats in the front, thin and blue bird do not either. So it's kind of like, okay, well, we're already kind of cutting our diet, and once again, it's not that health promoting to start with. So we had this kind of figure out, how did our patients get there? We want to increase the odds for our patients to be well. Being a good Greek as I am, I love riddles. And there's two sphinxes. You may know the Egyptian sphinx, it sits there by in Giza. And then there's one that protected the city of Thebes with a bee. And to pass by this protector of the city of Thebes, there was a riddle, which creature has one voice yet becomes four footed, two footed and then three footed. And many of you know that know the answer. It's humankind. We walk on four. We walk on two, and hopefully we don't walk on three. And now, of course, with the advent of all those little walkers, well there's actually probably six legs, the four legs of the walker and then our two legs. So kind of interesting to see. How do we prevent that? And so one of the compelling sides of things is, heck, no, I won't go much like the hearing with the frog, and the frog has its hands on the cartoon firmly around the neck of the herring. So this gentleman persona find the fact that I'm not going to accept that chronological age being my biological age. I want a younger biological age. And so what's interesting is, for Lean individuals, non obese individuals, the muscle is the largest organ in the body. And of course, I learned back in the day as a naturopathic physician with the skin? Well, that's the skin's the number one detoxification organ. Of course, we all think the liver or the kidneys, but then we look at the metabolically active tissue, and we know we have to support the mitochondria. We know that things like NAD drops precipitously. By the age of 40, we have about half the NAD levels within our skin that we used to and now there, of course, you go to your dermatologist, or maybe even in your practice, you'll tell your patients take niacinamide, because it actually help against certain kinds of skin cancers. So once again, interesting when we learn our biochemistry. I started my life in conventional medical school. I went to two years at allopathic medical school, and then I transferred into naturopathic medicine because my younger sister was dating this highly testosterone fellow, which had a strong opinion, so much so that she eventually bailed on him, but he was, I think, in my life, to get me to transition to nature of path of medicine. And my one class in conventional medical school that evolved nutrition was a proverbial underwater basket weaving class, but I thoroughly enjoyed it. I was a recalled graduate during college. We didn't have a single Scantron fill in the bubble on exams. We had a pontificate and think and so forth. And so when I was taking my class in nutrition, it was the same time as in biochemistry class and physiology class all that same semester, and in pharmacology class, we were learning about nicotine receptors and that side of things we're learning in physiology, the role of NAD and same thing in biochemistry. So I asked my nutrition professor, could I this was between 88 and 1990 Could I just practice nutrition, or have a large part my practice is, yeah, if you want to lose your license, this was before Andrew Weil sort of his schools and and programs and, you know, Deepak Chopra and Dr Oz and all those folks. And I'm like, okay, so I come back from the summer, and my sister stay in this fellow. This is, well, if you'd like nutrition so much when you're becoming naturopathic physician. And I, he double dared me with this highly testosterone over muscle bound body and says, I said, Oh, you'd have a chiropractor. He says, no, no, no naturopathic. And he ripped open a phone book. Remember those days, phone books and telephone booths, and so it's like, okay? And I said, Okay, well, there's two schools there. And he said, Well, you're just blowing smoke. You don't want to do it. But of course, I applied, and here I am, and ultimately became the dean of that school. So individuals over the age of 60 are classified in the lowest third. We're 50% more likely to die of all mortality. So our muscle does matter, but now we have these people that are losing weight, and they're losing a disproportional amount of muscle in general individual, results will vary. And are we increasing their risk? And so, once again, we don't want to have increased mortality. And then, of course, muscular strength is significantly and adversely associated with the risk of death of all causes. Um, British Medical Journal, 2008 so they kind of known it for a while, huh? And so we have our skeletal muscle, largest organ in the non obese individual, and it has all of these biochemical placements. Of course, it increases glucose uptake as a and p, k helps with, of course, a fat oxidation. But we're going to see on a couple slides further on in the presentation. And they create my accounts, which are very familiar with an exerkins, which are actually hormones made by our muscle. But when I graduated, okay, I said the muscle, you know, with some good proprioception, will keep you upright, keep your ambulatory, so you have a good gait. But, you know, I never thought of my muscle when I graduated 92 or until more recently, as a biochemical shift for the entirety of the body. I have some fun graphics from the peer review literature coming up. Services at endocrine organs, treats hormones such as myotkins, myokine, secreted by the stellar muscles, communicate between muscles, liver, adipose tissue, brain and other organs. In fact, we all are very familiar with the gut brain connection. In fact, my 18th book is called The mmm theory, the microbial mucosal male you theory, it's free on Amazon, unlimited, and it's 254, pages, speaking about the microbiome of the various parts of the body, beyond the GI tract, the uterus, the prostate, potentially the blood, the brain, onwards, the bladder, even, and all from the Peer of your literature. But what's interesting is, so we've got a gut brain, but now there's muscle brain, and there's even a link between sarcopenia and losing muscle and increased risk of Alzheimer's and dementia. So we will kind of look at these muscles and say, Okay, well, we're losing weight. The scale is moving, but are we truly successful because the scale is a lower or is that the quality of the weight? And we all know the answer to that question, so we want to safeguard from that ripple effect, or like, Hey, I got the number I fit into my outfit. Okay, but have I set myself up for the bigger fall down the road, literally and figuratively? Because, of course, without muscle, we're more likely to take a tumble.

Speaker 1  27:18
So from the peer review literature, we see age related sarcopenia, skeletal muscle metabolic decline, and we see inflammation. We're all very familiar with it, term that wasn't not coined that long ago. And we have mitochondria dysfunction, chronic conditions, changes in out of kinds, and even telomere attrition. And so we all learned back in the day that, well, we want to have our little zipper on our chromosomes at a certain length so that we're healthy. We want them too long. We don't want them too short. So we do resveratrol, or we do another product out there, like an ashwagandha extract. But now we're seeing that with sarcopenia, neurodegeneration comes to play, including Parkinson's. Well, of course, with Parkinson's, we need strong muscles anyway, because we're starting to lose the neural muscular function. But we're also seeing that without the muscle, we're also having a shift in a diet and absorption and a hormonal factor. So after the age of 30, people lose about three to 5% of their muscle mass per decade. So even this is little statistics I share with my patients. So even with my 30 year old patients, I'm saying, so what are you doing for your muscle? Well, I'm doing good. Of course. You know, they can flex their muscles, and they're very toned by saying, but if we don't continue to work on that and put you on a workout wellness program, much like a diet for a lifetime, we're going to not be successful. And of course, once we hit 60, which I'm in that circa it's like, okay, well, what happened to my big muscles? I used to be able to easily beat my two sons in arm wrestling. I still can, luckily, but I can work a whole heck of a lot harder. So getting old is not for sissies, and many of us already know that. So when we look at the aging associated with the changes of muscle and structure, and you can see the upper the arm here in the right hand upper corner of a 25 year old, and then we see a 75 year old, if we don't do anything, that's kind of how it ends up. And the girth of the arm may not be that much different, but the quality and quantity of the muscles dramatically different. And so we see the skeletal muscle and that sarcopenia and that attrition, that inflammation, low grade inflammation, and what we call it now is geriatric syndrome. That's when the terms coin in the pure of your literature. But you don't have to be your geriatric chronologically, because biologically, you can go ahead and do that. I tell my patients, the difference between biology of age and chronology of age is, don't we all know somebody that's maybe 8590 years old. They're sharp as a whip and can run circles around the youngins and the youngins have been playing on their computers and their Xboxes, and they can barely make it around the block without being out of breath. I have two couples and one couple. He was a physicist and she was a chemist. They're both in their mid 80s, and until recently, when the husband took a tumble on the sidewalk from some slippery leaves here in Oregon, he was doing 10,000 steps a day in his mid 80s, so a younger biological age was super sharp. He was a physicist with an interest in crystal structures, and she, of course, broke at glass ceiling before glass ceilings were known. And she was a chemist. And both of them did extensive walking, and they both made a point of walking their two their flights of stairs, and he did 50 flights of up and down every day. But recently, he broke his femur, and he had a disuse syndrome from having to be pieced back together like Humpty, Dumpty with a femur. And of course, then we put them on that substance I mentioned early on, called phototropin and to help mitigate that. But we're, of course, also supporting the mitochondria as well, and supporting their NAD levels, or COVID 10 or whatnot. So when we look at the use it or lose it, concept true, we can if we don't use it, we'll lose it. Um, that address is very true, especially when it comes to behavioral, exercise, activity, strength, but also immobilization. I had a hernia surgery in 2020, and Lucky me, right in the beginning of COVID, June of 2020, that was a fun experience. My family left me three hours away at a hospital, and they were told you cannot come in. That they had, they broke back home, and they came back and picked me up. So welcome to COVID and hernia surgery, but I had disuse syndrome from the fact is, I had to lay low for a while, while the mesh healed. So many of us are desk jockeys by the nature and all the charting requirements, but then we get an injury, whether it be a knee, a hip, we get a replacement. We have to support that as well. But then some people get truly ill, either hospitalized ill, or they get ill at home, and they end up with prom. And when we see a chronic illness or an acute illness, it can lead to something which we're very familiar with you thyroid sick syndrome, and it's an interest. So it's a non thyroidal illness syndrome, and it changes your thyroid function numbers. And as we were talking before we started on our talk today, it's present about 75% of hospitalized individuals. But let's imagine we all were wise enough to try to avoid going to a hospital, unless we have to, because we know there's no so colonial infections, and we hopefully will have a good hospitalist on staff when we get admitted and so but 75% of individuals that are hospitalized or worthy of being hospitalized, they're sick, but they're sick at home or chronically ill, they have youth thyroid syndrome, And this could also occur from deprivation of calories. So the extreme weight loss program also can mirror and mimic youth thyroid sick syndrome, because it's going to cause a diminishing a diminished level of t3 particularly free t3 and elevation of reverse t3 so the most common hormone pattern. Now you thyroid sick patients. So any of our patients that all of a sudden they were ill, they had an intervention and or they just slowly but surely lived along and got better. But they have low energy. They have all the classical signs of low thyroid, but they have particularly low t3 and low free t3 and a low or normal t4 and the TSH levels are low or normal. So we're only measuring TSH and we're only measuring T for we say they're euthyroid, but as we know when we prescribe levothyroxine, that's 1x so we have 100 micrograms of levothyroxine. Well, how much does that equate to, in terms of cytome or t3 and once, of course, we know t3 is three to five times stronger, so it's a much smaller dose. And so now, if we have what, as I share with my patients, t4 is like 1x on your cars, RPMs, it's idle, it's good, but the object converted in your periphery to t3 but if a preferentially due to a low iron, low selenium, low zinc, goes to reverse T, reverse t3 or starvation diet, or any kind of diet, I think we've all well, most of us have done a diet, lost weight and then plateaued. That's because our body, in its infinite wisdom of survival, back to the days of the cave people. I was like, Okay, great. I'm injured. The weather is terrible. The there's a famine going on. And so we went into these quasi hibernation states. But that's not good for healing. That's not good for detoxification. And so this, you thyroid six syndrome, comes to play tremendously when people are going tremendous dietary changes, and so it also causes a shift in the browning of our adipose tissue. So all of a sudden, if we don't have a sufficient t3 to activate thermogenesis and uncoupling electron transport chain of ATP synthesis and brown adipose tissue, we're not going to get the full bang out of a weight loss protocol.

Speaker 1  35:02
And here's a visual, which kind of speaks volumes. Of course, we have our mitochondria working here, and we have our blasters, but the Mito, the t3 in particular, goes to the mitochondrial DNA, which you can see here the number three. And there's receptors on our mitochondrial DNA for t3 but once again, we're if we're only measuring TSH or only measuring t4 we don't know where the patient's t3 levels are or where the reverse t3 levels are. And if you think of musical chairs, t3 versus reverse t3 Well, t3 three to five times a metabolic activity. Reverse t3 is 0x and so once again, what's competing to the mitochondria to help with electron transport chain and so forth. That's why a lot of our patients start presenting with hypothyroid, like symptoms, or what we call subclinical hypothyroid. And they're fatigued, they got muscle problems. So imagine your Lyme patient, or measure your Epstein Barr Virus patient, or you're now, you're, sadly enough, you're long all COVID patients, where are their thyroid levels? Once again, that comes back to your mitochondria and supporting them with things like NAD precursor and CO Q 10 and whatnot. And so we see a little blow up that picture. And once again, the t3 going to the mitochondrial DNA, affecting the mitochondrial DNA expression. But when we measure ourselves on the scale and say, Well, I have a good BMI, I think we've all seen the skinny, fat patients, so success on the scale does not equate healthy. We all know that we have people that are super thin and they got terrible lab work, and they're not doing well, and their their gait is terrible, and they're shuffling it. This is the second or third time in the year that they've taken a fall in a tumble. So efficacious of weight loss drug use can actually lead to undesirable effects. For getting the well known list of the GLP ones, constipation, gas or precincts and all this, we have these issues when we lose weight, all of us, we mobilize lipophilic compounds stored in our adipose tissue, chlorinated compounds, DDT, the metabolite of DDT, which is dde, remembering it was banned in 1972 PCBs. And then we go ahead and look at the organoplorine compounds in the carbon fluorine compounds of forever chemicals. And they have tremendously long half lives. So don't we need to have our mitochondria working for the cytochrome pathways for phase one and phase two liver detoxification? So when we start having our thyroid slow down because we're doing a successful weight loss program, we're now a star intentional starvation mode, we're ending up slowing down our mitochondria across the board, and we need to support that as well as, of course, doing some good detoxification. In the naturopathic world, still, over 60% of naturopathic physicians do not support the detoxification pathway sufficiently when a patient's losing massive amounts of weight. But we're just now I have today's toxins. I'm sitting in my home office. I happen to have technology that measures how many parts per million that I have of four carbons of volatile chemicals. But I'm always looking running my filters. But if I go to any other place, or I have a new car or a new office or new vinyl floor or whatever, there's more chemicals today, and then we have to deal with yesterday's chemicals, and that's where the epigenetic burden, or the allostatic load, becomes excessive. So we got the skinny side of things, but once again, if it's not toned and we don't have the muscle, we end up with problems. And so the rapid weight loss, the sabotage is we can become too weak, and though we might be looking very thin like this fellow, just by chance of stock photo that I am using, but GLP one agonist and bariatric surgeries and other rapid weight loss programs rob the muscle disproportionately, and that ends up with promin when we lose that active metabolic tissue, we of course, lose that higher basal metabolic rate for after we're done with the active weight loss process, and we're trying to just go on to a maintenance program. And when we lose our muscle, of course, we lose our insulin sensitivity and blood sugar regulation to a very large degree as well. So if we all think about going to Minnesota or Michigan in the winter, and we're wearing our summer garb, or I'm wearing my Oregon garb. And most of the time I can wear my summer clothes here in Oregon, it doesn't get that cold where I live. But now, if I go someplace cold, what's going to happen? I'm going to shiver where my Oregon attire, and that shivering is by thermogenesis, our body trying to save our proverbial bacon from freezing and turn it into an icicle. But once again, if we lose our muscle, we won't have that ability. So once again, protecting the muscle vitally important and supporting the muscle side of things. So Dr Kumar, practicing endocrinologist in New York City, is quoted in Health Line. Sarcopenia affects the elderly population to a degree. The answer is that yes, if you don't do anything about it, your chronological and biological is what you said, and typically is associated with aging. However, rapidly losing weight, which glies like ozempic and we will be without the proper diet and exercise, can also lead to sarcopenia, says the endocrinologist, sometimes referred to as the skinny fat. So now, of course, the plate on the right hand upper corner kind of looks somewhat healthy, but now, even if you're on a healthy diet and you're cutting your calories, your micro, macro nutrients aren't going to be there to help with the detoxification and maintaining your skeletal muscle, because they're decreasing caloric intake, and with that comes to decrease in protein and other things as well. But of course, unless they have us, then of course, we're going to create a more well balanced program to allow fertile ground for protecting against the muscle loss and so forth. So for the love of biochemical pathways, it could also be titled trigger a word, but you said, this isn't very complex crystal. I got this one. And we look at how, of course, our muscle, skeletal muscle, and we look at how it impacts our mitochondria biogenesis. And some of you may already use things like pyroquinoline quinone, p, q, q to support mitogenesis, or maybe you're using some resveratrol. But the fun picture comes over here when you look at what happens from a mechanism of sarcopenia obesity and its association with endogenous metabolites. So we got the beast individual, Sally enough, I am more in that category than I would like to be. And then we got the sarcopenic individual, and you can see all these different pathways. So of course, we go through male menopause andropause and menopause, so some of our anabolic hormones drop, but then we also start having more inflammation. And we know that when we have elevated C reactive protein, we actually increase our leptin, le PTIN levels, which causes a decrease of adiponectin. And so there's just all these counterpoints. And if we only knew this when we all were in these classes learning about these biochemical pathways, the vast majority on this chart, I did not know, and we're probably not even existent. In 1990 I think we knew about vitamin D and testoster. I give give you on that one, but it's like, wow, there's just so much we didn't know, but now we do. And as you can see, it's in the peer review literature. So the adipocyte 101, and which is a refresh. So as we're talking to our patients, brown fat cells are involved in thermogenesis, the process of heating production. And there's numerous mitochondria containing uncoupling protein, the UCP one, allowing them to generate heat. Great, we want to brown our fat, and we want to brown our white fat to trigger that. And so this is where the popularity of the cold plunge comes in. So if you want to stop your heart and or lose weight and trigger your mitochondria, jump into a 32 degree polar plunge in your bathtub every day, and certain chemicals like irisin and norepinephrine also help with browning and interested, we'll get to irisin a little bit. I have a much more extensive talk on this, but when elevated myostatin loads, which happen with aging, with obesity, with inactivity, instead of your lifestyle, irisin levels drop. And so we don't brown our fat as well. And so that's why obesity sets you up for regaining your weight, in part, not only because of the mitochondria and thyroid dysfunction, but because the irisin levels are not sufficient because of elevated myostatin levels. So then we got thermogenesis, and we got that Beijing of our adipocytes that can, of course, generate heat. So we want to help our patients with that browning. But it takes, once again, energy and mitochondrial function in order to do that. Some more fun graphics out of the peer review literature. And when you look at the peer review literature and how much it's really expanded the last five to 10 years on nutrition and nutritional biochemistry, that validates everything we've known all the way along. So this was a 2023

Speaker 1  43:57
excerpt out of a PubMed article. And we see a white set, white adipocytes in the Brownian beige, and we start seeing the changes. And over here you can see the little UCP one expression in white cells, white fat cells. And then we have a high expression thermogenic. Remember, back in the day when ephedra, ma Huang senefer and from orange peel, those were all the rage to help cause a thermogenesis, of course, what lots of six falley, because it has some alpha adrenergic impact. But it's like, okay, but look, we got cold exposure and environmental stimuli. But once again, we need to brown ourselves when it comes to getting that fat tissue going. And a better look at dormant out of sights, cold exposure, diet, exercise. This is where things like the fertilized egg extract, which we could talk about after the fact and but you see, look at the changes that occur when we start browning our fat, we start seeing a decrease in a lot of the risk factors we're concerned about. And of course, now you look at that triglyceride levels. I think the vast majority of have seen elevated glucose pattern elevated triglyceride levels. That's not by coincidence, and of course, either metabolic syndrome and diabetes. The other time I see elevated liver enzymes or elevated cholesterol levels, the first thing I'm thinking about all things being equal is, how's your thyroid? Because when I have a hypothyroid patient, their liver enzymes are often elevated, and their cholesterol and their lipid panels are a skew, and we dial in their thyroid within normal reference ranges. And lots of those numbers start balancing out a little bit kind of interesting. And we start seeing that list, the glycolysis and the thermogenesis occurring here, once again, peer review literature. Then we go into the young person. Once again, think biological age, not chronological age, because we have people that are young and youthful, but they are have old bodies, and they have old persons healthy issues. And then we have a often older people that are really doing great for themselves, that the proverbial Adonis is of their age category, with sedentary lifestyle. Welcome to being desk jockeys and AI and computer technology and the comforts of the world. And we start seeing sarcopenia, decrease in functional function. We see mitochondrial DNA mutations. We see increased apoptosis, impaired autophagy. We also see impaired mitophagy, so the mitochondrial side of things and impaired biogenesis, all because we're becoming more sedentary and we have sarcopenia creep. So by addressing the sarcopenia and supporting the mitochondria, we could start pushing our biological age the other direction. So many of you are familiar with the NAD declined with age and up to 65% drop in NAD levels between the age of 30 and 70. So the supplementation with NAD precursors, like nicotine in my private side or even an IV of NAD precursor, could be helpful, and we want to help with the physiology. A fun statistic. We know that magnesium there's some 300 to 600 enzymes, and now the literature points for 600 enzyme pathways which are magnesium dependent. Well NAD there's 500 biochemical pathways which are NAD dependent. So if we knew nothing about science, we're just talking to the lay public, and we say, well, we can help support 500 different enzymatic pathways by supporting your NAD levels, which have dropped over the course of time. Kind of makes sense. We want to support those NAD levels. That same graph looks very similar to a melatonin drop. Which of interest, enough, is a very powerful antioxidant. And during the COVID era, you might recall, there was an article that came out showing that melatonin actually, and this is on PubMed. You can Google it, melatonin actually helped fly at the cytokine storm. It wasn't a highly published study or promoted study. Was like melatonin, anti inflammatory, antioxidant and all the other wonderful benefits of melatonin. And what else do we see with that similar kind of curve, nitric oxide levels dropping also, and that's circulation through the 60,000 miles of blood vessels from the neck down. We have some 100,000 miles of blood vessels in our brain. So they did a study. And I love quoting current literature. This one is not current literature. It is 1953 Lancet referenced twice. They looked at conductors and drivers in 1953 in London, and the conductors did a whole lot better on their health because they're walking around in 1953 the drivers are our computer desk jockeys billboards of the world, and they found that there was much more twice as much coronary heart disease and syndromes from the drivers and the conductors because they got their miles in. So of course, my big investment this year has been 29 cents a day for a piece of software on my phone that tells me one thing, have I met my steps for the day? And so yesterday was supposed to be 6300 steps, because it was started January one, and today they gave me a break, was only going to be 3500 steps. And then the guilt of the software program, you have succeeded gold star, like when we were kids, or you have failed ethically, which has happened already this year for me. So here we go. Flash forward now, this is the drivers, not the conductors. So we have, of course, the ATP and the mitochondria function that saccharin, the sacraments and ATP consumption. But this fellow has it figured out, in my opinion, if any of you are familiar with Steven Sinatra, before he passed, he was the integrative cardiologist, and he lectured on the big stage at a 4m conference right before I did in Florida, probably about 12 years ago, 1012, years ago, and I usually don't listen to talks right before I give my talk, but it was on the big stage, so they had to mic me up, and I little Britney Spears, Michael Jackson, tube speak microphone on me, and he was talking about grounding. He called her, of course, earthing. This fellow has figured it out. He's cold plunging. He's breathing fresh air, and he grounded himself all at once. Good for him so and pray for him as well. It doesn't he seems to be having to find, I'll just leave it there. So schedule muscle insensitivity. There's a condition, as we get older, as and as we get sarcopenia. It's called anabolic resistance. When we think anabolic resistance, we start thinking, well, anabolic hormones. This is actually where our skeletal muscle cannot take up amino acids as well as they used to. So they're still circulating in the bloodstream unless, of course, you're on a starvation night. Then of course we're going to worsen that. And so we want to help with anabolic resistance, and that's part of that is by dropping your myostatin levels and support in your mitochondria. And so the commonality to decrease physical activity muscle contraction between these conditions is that it is associated with anabolic resistance. So the desk jockey, the heavy person, the sedentary person, which often are, have been underactive, now are ending up with more anabolic resistance. So they have trouble building the muscle, and then if they lose the muscle with rapid weight loss, they end up with dire straits. So the muscle as an endocrine organ, and all those lovely things. When I even a decade ago, when I looked at interleukin six, I said, terrible, terrible, terrible. Now we know there's two sides. Interleukin too much, interleukin six, not a good thing to a little interleukin six not a good thing. So you think patient with rheumatoid arthritis, sed rate is good, CRP is good. Ah, the interleukin six is elevated. That maybe is why they have an inflammatory process. But now we see the myostatin impact, the iron side of things, which helps with the running the fat and all these lovely chemicals, you know, of course, insulin, the GLP one, and it's throwing off our muscles in a very significant way. So once again, our muscle affects our brain. Our muscle affects, of course, our blood vessels. And of course, we know nitric oxide and NAD levels paramount for healthy blood vessels, our heart function. I don't know where we that came from up another couple of fun human beings enjoying the plunge.

Speaker 1  52:28
I'm not sure. There we go, and we got skeletal muscle, and we see here from a 2024, Journal of gerontology, and the impact of muscle on all these biochemical pathways. So just tell our patients they need a walk. They need to be accountable, they need to have a pedometer on. They need to be moving. And muscle actually helps. It was Nietzsche that said, you want to be thinking expansively and clearly, you must be exercising. You must be walking. I don't usually quote him, but I did just quote him, and it's neuro protective. So all our patients Parkinson's, maybe they have an April, April protein, three, four. We're going to want to support that pathway by going ahead and helping with exercise. So extra kinds, extra kinds are first Al, kind of myokine, since the discovery in 2000 that muscle contraction releases integrative six, the muscle, the number of exercise associated molecules has multiplied tremendously. Once again, you're a new graduate, right? You know this stuff. If you're old like me, don't know it, because it won't even the words being used at the time, but the extra kinds have potential roles in improving cardiovascular disease, immune system. That's why we tell our patients with cancer or not immune diseases, walk exercise. And you might remember a gentleman, Patrick Quillen. He was quoted, he was worked for Cancer Treatment Centers of America that 41% of people with cancer die of starvation, not from their cancer. And so helping the diabetes, obesity and making sure our patients stay active with any chronic disease vitally important. So from a possess the process of muscle loss, and one of the things which you're very familiar, especially since many of you are osteopathic physicians, is we have decreased nerve innervation to any area. Of course, we're gonna have atrophy. Call it a brachial plexus issue, three, four, cervical spine. Of course, you're gonna not only possibly have carpal tunnel like syndrome, but you can have atrophy of the muscle. Likewise, if you have a lumbar spine issue, you might have gastroparesis or a sluggish bowel andropause, menopause, elevated cortisol levels, thyroid dysfunction, lower growth hormone levels. Of course, highly regulated, I think sometimes a little too overly regulated. All our problems. Enter pause. Of course, you have to have that serum level below 300 but I asked the philosophical question, if a gentleman used to be 800 on their testosterone and now they're 301 is he not a fraction of the man hormonally that he used to be, and might that maybe 400 would have been low for him. Of course, we know with stress we have cortisol that we know that's a catabolic hormone, and so of course, that's going to be at odds for people wanting your load on muscle or do the healing process. That's why we tell our patients to de stress or use L theanine or GABA, or whatever we our preferences are the anabolic resistance, remembering as we get older, or we've been sedentary, or we have a disuse syndrome, the anabolic resistance is not a hormonal issue, it's a amino acids not being taken up by the myocytes within The body, and we have disuse syndrome. Welcome to, of course, either being sedentary or having an injury. And then we have poor nutritional status, gut health. So I have a patient. She's 64 years old, and she ended up falling from a ladder. So she had osteoporosis already. She had already left osteopenia. She was an osteoporosis so she broke everything on her left side, left arm, left wrist, ribs, everything that piece her back together. But then she was in a juice use syndrome phenomena, and now her problem is, for whatever reason, she has very foul, fast, foul transit time. So she eats and she goes poop. She eats, she goes poop. She eats her. She goes poof. Who's a very medical where, I think we have an ICD 10 code for proof, but I think it's a little bit more differentiated than that, with lots of modifiers. And that was a joke, so, but now she takes supplements, and they just run through her. Take her, she takes her medications are running through her like little torpedoes or the torpedo from the yellow sub arena of The Beatles. So it's like, okay, well, she's not assimilating. And so she's becoming more frail, free, mature age, skin and body alike, and she's having a real hard time. So once again, supporting that gut health to assimilate is very important, and biological versus chronological age. The this couple over here can probably run laps on most of the teenagers that have been sitting in front of the x boxes or Nintendo's sad. So this is a graphic from true nitrogen, a company I'm an educator for, but it points out about NAD and NMN. So NMN can't cross the cellular membrane. NAD has to be broken down as well to cross that membrane. Nicotine, my riboside not only process the pathway, but the Brenner pathway through in our k1 and two are induced with physiological or psychological stress, and that will, like a Hoover, vacuum cleaner, suck in the n r and support then be eventually converted to NMN, which cannot otherwise cross that membrane and make NAD remember that aging process, one of many things, along with all the other cofactors and substrates for Acetyl Co A, down through citrate, down to cis acadinate, through the pathways down to succinyl co A, and all the way Around the prep cycle, we have to have those nutrients. And I'll go over that in a moment. And so here's our mitochondria, and I have a saying. It's on my last slide, all ships in the harbor rise with the tide. So when you support the mitochondria, you support all these functions. So even though we might be targeting weight loss and skeletal muscle, we have to be supporting the mitochondria in order for everything to work. A patient, two patients of mine actually, strangely enough, have retinitis pigmentosa, and there's a mitochondrial component to it. Many of you have seen an elevation in the quantity and of people with fatty liver, there's a mitochondrial component of that, more often than not, a non alcoholic fatty liver that, of course, is cranial nerve number eight and hearing changes often mitochondria related. And so we start seeing all these correlations with, once again the mitochondria, thanks to once again mom's genetics. So when I do a intake for my patients, I ask family history. I usually delve into the mom's side quite a bit, because I want to know how energized mom was. I wonder how energized mom's sisters were maternal grandmothers, because that mitochondria are determining your nuclear DNA, those 46 chromosomes function. So a flashback. This is from us biotech, courtesy of us biotech versus bar in their graphics. But we have our glucose, which were, of course, we're at carbonation. And we see every place that citrate to sis affinity to isocitrate to Alpha ketoglurate. Well, you need vitamin b3 you need make sure you have iron. You have same thing here. And so you see the substrates and the nutrients necessary. This is, of course, an organic acid test where we can actually measure where are we getting stuck? And invariably, there's a common theme where you'll start seeing one star another star all of a sudden, like, wow, the same things are going up. For example, over here with glucose to pyruvate, eventually down to Acetyl Co A, we can see, okay, well, we need B vitamins, we need magnesium, we need lipoic acid. We'll see the same thing when it comes to protein digestion, and we'll see the same thing when it comes to the ISO keto cap rate on fat digestion. You'll see the patient scoring again and again and again the same substrates being insufficient onto their unique biochemistry. So as you can see here, lots of b3 one of my areas of focus as an educator is vitamin b3 is like, wow. So back to that nutrition class in MD medical school. Well, I the thing that taught me at trot on nutrition was that nicotine receptors in NAD and we now know that in order to convert tryptophan into niacin, which is simple b3 whether it be niacin or nicotinamide, well, it takes 60 milligrams of tryptophan to make nearly one milligram of niacin, and then it takes some eight different biochemical pathways to make it into NAD but why would the body convert 60 to one? Because that's how important NAD is. And so once again, supporting biochemical pathways. I love COVID 10 as well. I love other first, mitochondrial support. So you can see here the peer review literature. We have Stella muscle energy metabolism journal. We have clinical evidence for targeting NAD therapeutics. We have extra kinds and resilience to health, and we have mitochondrial dynamics and Exercise Physiology, and we have age related loss of skeletal muscle as a measure of overall health and well being and atrophy. So lots of literature here. And once again, I can send you all these articles. Just email me, and we see here the mitochondrial dynamics with all of these things. We have our cardiac muscle, cardiomyocytes. We have our skeletal muscle, because we have our smooth muscle of our bronchi and intestinal tract. And these mitochondrial dynamics play a role. But once again, exercise plays a role across the board, hence, mitochondrial dynamics and Exercise Physiology 2019

Speaker 1  1:02:07
so we need to be exercising and so showing a patient this article for me, in my practice, I have a lazy Susan, and I just literally rotate around my monarch and say, This is what exercise will be doing for you. So there's anyone else gonna help? My heart, it's gonna help. You know? It's gonna help all it's gonna help all of the above. And so that's gets them really motivated, and then I hold them accountable based on their apps that I have them place on their phones or other devices, or their Apple phone, or their Apple Watch, or their aura ring or whatever. So extra kinds have the potential role in improving cardiovascular, metabolic, immune and neurological health. And there's these tissues. They're out of a kinds of myoclines, the cardio kinds, they're all contributing. But we have to be exercising. And a body emotion stays in motion. A body at rest stays at rest. Kind of basic physics. So from true nitrogen, there are some educational lipids all the all it is is scientific literature. You can actually get access to all of this and actually talks about white papers and supporting the muscle and all the applications of NAD in the body. But the goal here is to get enough NAD building blocks across the membrane to support healthy NAD levels. And when it comes to peer review literature, you always, in my clinical practice, I like to follow the science there is something. And we started the early conversation with Andrew Weil and going back to the basics of his Institute and training of good diet, good lifestyle, exercise, good sleep, all those basics, those basics are the foundation that has kept society and our ancestry alive for the millennia. But then we look at things like nicotine, my riboside, 1000 milligrams, three weeks randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study and 12 marginally overweight individuals, and they looked at how it decreased certain inflammatory markers and how it increased the muscle NAD levels, and then in 2020, another 1000 milligram per day six weeks study, a randomized placebo control, very extensively studied and increased markers of skeletal muscle and with some other minor benefits, because we Know that diet, lifestyle, absorption, thyroid, sex hormones, gonadal hormones, and, of course, the adrenal hormones all play a role as well. So whenever we see a study, and I'm sure you all see the same problem, most of the states, they're not controlling for enough factors. Like this is a great study, but you didn't control for this and this, which are potential positives or negatives, that skewed the data one way or the other. And so once again, we kind of want to look at where the scientific literature is, and we vet all of that. And so we see, once again, 1000 milligrams in niacin, 1000 milligrams of nicotinamide, riboside, and we see the baselines of NAD levels, approximately two fold decrease in muscle. NAD level constructs are found in myopathy patients. I'm doing a large study on muscular dystrophy and Beckers, so Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Beckers so muscular dystrophy in general, and we're looking to support myostatin levels and control their mitochondrial function. And I've been very fortunate to work with a young man. His name is Jake, in Florida, and I started working with him when he was 11 years old, and we've kept him off steroids. He has Duchenne muscular dystrophy that occurs from a statistical perspective, one in 330, 500 men, young boys, and we've actually kept off steroids. And we actually got him from not even pottying by himself to being able to potty and bathe by himself with just nutritional interventions. Individual results will vary, always a disclaimer, but then we see her nice and reduced whole body fat. So once again, we're supporting the mitochondria. This is one thing, of course, COVID 10, pyrome quinone, and we see here also, although nr did not increase skeletal muscle NAD levels, because there's always studies pro and con. It increase the marks of NAD flux demonstrates skeletal muscle bio availability in our supplementation. And also we see here 1000 milligrams in our five months, non randomized, open label, parallel assignment, and they looked at discorded twins. So if we all looked at a twin, and they'll say they're 30 years old or 40 years old. Are they really twins any longer? From a genetic perspective, they are, but epigenetically not. They had different spouses, different significant others. Maybe one had pneumonia, maybe one had three or four bouts of antibiotics. So their microbiome is altered. So even though we're looking at the supported twins, what are the question is, their similarities have changed. Even though they're genetically the same people, they're not, in many regards to the same people because of the epigenetic factors. So in our increased muscle mitochondrial biogenesis and improved gut microbiota. And of course, as the gut goes off to so do we. So from a healthy aging and muscle function perspective, positively associated with NAD abundance. And this one's interesting, the Stella muscle is greatly affected by aging. We know that we've started our premise on it, plus we're all clinicians, and however, the underlying molecular mechanism and how lack of physical activities involved in age related metabolic decline in muscle health and humans, we compared a cross sectional study and the muscle metabolome from young to older and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NAD it was one of the most prominent metabolites that was lower in older adults. There is an exception, and this exception caught my attention for those older adults that are already walking 14,000 steps a day, their NAD levels were really, really good. So okay, so if you're not walking 14,000 steps, your NAD levels as your age start plummeting. But now the question is, and I'm sure it occurs to you, as it does meet, well, were there NAD levels somehow, biochemically, genetically, really, really great, which allowed them to walk those 14,000 steps which came first the chicken or the egg. But once again, NAD is very, very important. And so we look at the lower levels and physiology. And as you can see in the dark green, this work confirms the relationship between NAD levels and overall health status and aging individuals. And highlights in AD pathways of Protestant target for healthy aging, along with, of course, a good diet, a good lifestyle. And, you know, put your car and recirculate while you're sitting in traffic so you're not inhaling from the diesel truck in front of you. No pun intended there. My wife says, what, you know, I said, recirculate. My poor wife, we were in Las Vegas for my son's 21st birthday. We're going to pick up Cape mouth, which is a gentleman that keeps his mouth and didn't act like a mine. We're going to pick up pen and tell her, but she ends up the first night having a Charlie horse. We're staying at the Venetian where I've gone many a time to lecture, and she ends up having charlie horse. And I hear this punk, a larks punk, kind of like a bully ball falling on a hardwood floor. Well, it was her head bouncing off the marble floor in the bathroom of the Venetian and then I heard as she was choking on her tongue and suffocating. So I got to be the first responder, opened her airway, dealt with the hypertension, she was cold and clammy and all these things. So she ended up with a brain bleed from bouncing her head back of her head off the marble floor, and she had a frontal lobe brain bleed. And we got to spend $69,000 out of pocket. So our insurance didn't cover travel in Las Vegas. But she cannot smell. So my wife, as I'm driving along, she's what, you know, I says there's a diesel smell. So she knows when I go to recirculate, I'm picking up a smell or something, or both her and I have allergies, and says she can no longer have a sense of smell, because what happens the cribriform plate, which are very familiar from our neuroanatomy, she actually severed her olfactory nerve along the cribriform plate. Yay. Not so. 52 subjects, muscle biopsies and skeletal muscle physically impaired, very low NAD levels. Young people doing great exercise, doing okay, physically active once again, but then it goes as a slippery slope. So NAD was significantly depleted. And OA suggesting over in older adults that is in a declines with age and sufficient activity can help with the decline we must exercise, once again, supporting the innate biochemical pathways and redundancies that are built into our body so where we don't want to be. And then we look here at overweight, under trained individuals, 16

Speaker 1  1:10:44
males, 10 adults, and then we see what happens, and we see the changes in their chemistry as a result of that. And so we see changes in restorative NAD levels and NADH concentrations observed in recreationally trained college athletes, muscle citrate synthase, markers of mitochondrial density, and we see these other changes. So we see the same thing here, the 22 weight discord individuals, twins, because this was all the studies I showed you earlier on, on that one slide, 250 milligrams to 1000 milligrams daily for five months, escalating dose, no exercise intervention. Now we're seeing lean and obese twins responded similarly to nr in our increased whole blood blood levels of NAD by 2.3 fold. And we start seeing other changes as well. And and so the limitation is no control. That was the limitation of the site. There was no control. And so it'd be nice to have a control. And trying to find twins to participate in study, it's a little hard to find the subject matter in our improve the mitochondrial bio Genesis as well, and increase the number of mitochondria in the muscle, which, of course, also the thermogenesis, the browning of the tissues around as well. So and in our increased mitochondrial transcription factors in the muscle, and then we look at mitochondrial support. This is my protocol for my patients, which I'm trying to optimize for weight loss experience. I use NAD precursor mind preference in our CO Q, 10, pq, Q and resveratrol consume sufficient calories to prevent increase in the increased t3 to reverse t3 conversion. The moment we go on starvation, your body doesn't know we're doing it with intent. It's still taking ancestrally. There's not enough food, I'm going to go into hibernation mode and starvation, inflammation and injury all increase. Conversion to reverse t3 so going too quickly, too hard on weight loss like GLP one, often does. I have a gentleman now, he's just turned 60s, just a couple of months older than me, and he's lost so much weight, he's scared, and he's had not stopped the GLP one. He's not my patient, and that he's actually swimming in his outfits. It's like, okay, that's too much weight loss, dude. A sufficient protein and essential amino acids with anabolic resistance, it looks like the branch chain. Amino acids leucine, isoleucine, are very important, but leucine, particularly are very prevalent insufficiency of leucine. So when you have a patient that has anabolic resistance, for where their pro their muscles aren't taking up the amino acids. You want to make sure their lucid and branch chains are dialed in exercise for the tropic, that's an egg based product, which we could talk about after our official talk here. We want to mitigate anabolic resistance by inhibiting myostatin, and we want to support detoxification. And I am very dramatic on this one, the word diet has the word diet in it, and I've, sadly enough, had more than one patient over my 33 years that have lost massive amounts of weight, not always under my watch and shortly thereafter, damn with cancer, and because they've liberated toxins and chemicals, they couldn't handle coincidental, causation, correlation, don't know, but it's like it's formerly based cancers, usually. So they're they're thin, but then they're battling for their lives. Coincidental, like I said, don't know. This is a little graphic that I've created. I can send you the larger version of it, phase one, phase two, and phase three, as we know, phase one toxins are very toxic. But then we go into intermediary phase between phase one and phase two, and it's actually more reactive and more damaging. So once we get the hot potato moving, we need to keep it going and make sure we're got our gallbladder, our kidneys and, of course, our skin. So this is where sauna and all these things come into play as well. But we had to support all those pathways we have to ensure good quality sleep and rule out sleep apnea. I can't sure how many patients I have, and right now, I have a patient with ply cystic kidney disease, his younger brother. He's my patient 63 his younger brother, at 45 actually had double kidney transplant, has now rejected them and is waiting for on the donor list, and he's on dialysis. His father, of my patient, that is actually ended up passing away from ply cystic kidney disease, and now he's in stage five kidney failure. My patient, and we found out he had apnea. He only weighs 145 pounds. He is in great shape, and exercises all the time. And I've told him over the years, I think you have apnea. He's a no, I'm standing, I'm not fat, I'm not and lo and behold, that lower oxygen level. So we have hypoxia, and then we have proxemia. So you wonder, okay, well, that kidney is not doing so well, to start with, largely cystic polycystic kidney disease, and he's creating a hypoxic and hypoxemia environment around that kidney. And so I just had a conversation today. It's like, let's take care of the kidneys. So we can maybe wait on having to do too much dialysis. He's going to start repair. So he says, you know, fluid in the belly, and then pull it out, but then, you know, he wants to avoid being stuck on the machine. But the thing is, we have to take care of those kidneys with oxygen. So the other thing is, with weight loss, for H A 1c dysregulated cortisol levels, I like to do a four type salivary cortisol. Or if you'd like to do something like a urinary test, there's, of course, a urinary test out there that's actually located in Oregon that does a urinary four time cortisol, DHEA, total of free testosterone for men and women, growth hormone, IGF, one at the very least, and every one of these thyroids. And of course, sometimes I'll do antibodies as well. That's my minimum protocol for my patients. Now, when it comes to NAD levels, because we've talked quite a bit about it, you get a virus, your NAD levels will drop. There's a ex vivo study showing that within 25 hours of purpose virus, it drops virtually to nil? I mean, very dramatic drop over training. Yes, you can do too much of a good thing, sun exposure. And that's kind of an interesting one, because remember, you go to your dermatologist, and my dermatologist, Marla Klein, which actually strange enough. I was in Bahamas on a Disney cruise with my kids 15 years ago, and I said, Kathy says, who's more like so she's my dermatologist, but she has a brochure, take your niacin. Okay, well, NAD is built from niacin and niacinamide. Interesting. So that sun exposure time makes sense, over nutrition, over fed, under nourished, sedentary lifestyle and, of course, environmental factors, all big computer factors. So the question is, how low are we on NAD? There's actually a test. You probably know there's a test. There's a test to measure your NAD levels on your patients and or you can just assume that they're low. But are we at 1% like our basically, what certain apps on my phone don't work? At less than 10% We? Are we at 20% the question is, Are we under dose and have we got the person's titrated up to an optimal level NAD where there's actually an ad test, simple finger stick fingerprint test, that can measure NAD levels and say, Are we dialed in, and should we really focus the energy and time for our patients on dealing with that? And so once again, if we look at the ATP pathways, we look at food, carbs, fats, proteins, multiple NAD steps to make eight TP. And an interesting piece of trivia, when we were 30 years old, if some of you are 30, enjoy the moment, I wish I had enjoyed my 30s more and I didn't work 80 hours a week, but you are making on average, 60 kilograms, about 130 pounds of ATP per day at 30. Thank goodness we're great recyclers, and that's not weight that we keep around every day, but you make it 130 pounds per day, and for every decade from the age of 30 on, you make about 10% less ATP. So I'm at 60, so I'm making 30% less ATP than when I was younger. And does that impact my cellular function? And I often will hold up my cell phone for my patients, so one of my generic app pages and say, All these apps on my phone are like the DNA in the cell. So I the brain, the hair, the heart, the lungs, the GI tract, the paracrine, the exocrine function of the pancreas and gallbladder. But now, if I don't have enough charge on my phone, I have $1,000 glorified cell phone, which is like a human cell without enough energy. So I'm going to open up for questions. I'm long winded. I apologize, but here I am fire away.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:29
Wow, where to start?

Bill Clearfield  1:19:36
Okay, so you went through the, your, your, your sort of, your little pro, your protocol there, what specifically are you measuring for? To say, Yes, I need NAD or what about nm? Also,

Speaker 1  1:19:52
okay, so mm, as this graphic shows up here, does not cross over the cellular membrane and must be broken down. It's too large a molecule, just like NAD is too large a molecule. So if you're doing IV NAD, there's benefits of IV NAD, and actually, I need to scroll up a little further, but NAD has to also be broken down across the cellular membrane. So that's our challenge. Here is NMN, clearly, it's a precursor molecule that

Speaker 5  1:20:22
can be that can be overcome if you load them with cyclodextrin. That's the new trend for all the big molecules. You have problem of getting inside the cells. You can bypass the regular transporter, you know, the shuttles, and you can use cyclodextrin for indocytosis, and you can get as you want inside the cells.

Speaker 1  1:20:45
Great, great tidbit. I was unaware of that, but under the natural physiological state, NMN doesn't do it as well. Maybe with cyclodextrin, it does. I will stay humble, and thank you for educating me. Now I'm going to write that down. And guess what? Before my wife's going to say, what are you doing? For a rest of you, I'm going to be I'm looking at a cyclodextrin. In fact, I'm writing it down right now. Thank you. Doc,

Speaker 5  1:21:12
yeah, I can, I can help you. Can you Can we take off the recording so we can talk about openly? Is that possible?

Bill Clearfield  1:21:19
You're killing me there. Dr olasi, yeah, it's done. Okay, okay, so,

Speaker 5  1:21:23
so yes, and I'm working on this field of psychodextrin loading with drugs and supplements and peptides. I have the Chinese manufacturer there doing all the testing, and then I have the US manufacturer will copy their testing and resource the psychodextrin and start loading supplement drugs, peptides, and that's the trend, new trend of medicine. The Big Pharma is already moving to that direction. And we, as integrative doctors or integrative industry, we can move to that direction as well. I can help you. Anybody wants to put you know during this project, already have the facilities of loading and testing and all that stuff, and that's

Speaker 1  1:22:05
wonderful information. I used cyclodextrin maybe a decade ago as part of a weight loss program, but actually I'm intrigued. So thank you. I would love to have the information.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:20
Is it? Is the cyclodextrin available now, Dr velocir? Or is that something that's in the process? No,

Speaker 5  1:22:27
it's, it's, it's invaluable. I know I have a compounding pharmacy already doing it for non sterile with progesterone, as you know, but I have the strive pharmacy is now doing it in a more high, kind of more delicate, where you don't have any technical issues there. And then they have a manufacturer in China where they all doing all the testing and loading and picturing and making sure it's it's done right. And then they take the protocols and they scale it up in the United States here, and they're gonna load all the drugs and supplements and peptides. So it's in the process. Dry pharmacy is working on it. Hopefully, in one month or two months, we will have GLP one loaded with cyclodextrin, sublingual, oral, sublingual, and state of injectable plus many other projects. But again, NAD, I can see that mm, all these things, they have problem with getting to the sales. I think that's the the solutions that we can offer for those people are doing supplements, and possibly all your supplements can be loaded inside psychodextrin. And for many things, one of the things that psychodextrin is the only drug that helps to clear the body from fat soluble toxins and mycotoxins and organophosphorus and microplastics, all the challenge that we have existing estrogens, that as integrative doctors, we have a problem to detox the body from those things. Now we have a solution for that so. And then it delivered the drug supplements into the target, and I wrote a book on it. Uh, 10 copies going to be sent to your Nevada conference. And I would like to see you all with Doctor I, Doctor William, clarify and his group, they have Nevada conference coming up in the next week. Yeah, yeah. We tell you

Bill Clearfield  1:24:24
about it, if you like, if you like skiing. You know, it's a world class ski, ski resort, South Lake Tahoe, if you're interested. So there is a question in the in the chat about phase two. So Stefan, I don't know if he's still here. I hear natural fast say phase two, liver detoxification a lot. And he wants to know what that means exactly. So, Dr, Chris, yes, you're

Speaker 1  1:24:54
so phase two. And I'm going to go down here. I think it's, maybe it's above So phase one and phase two are just well known and well documented pathways of mobilizing toxic substances. So a toxic substance and I better just cheat here and look this way at where is my graphic for that? There we are. And phase two is right here. It's acetylation, and a blue front addition piece is something which a lot of us, until we get really into functional medicine, overlook. When we do stool testing, we look for beta blue, for on adation, as one of the stool markers. And if beta Bucha on a days is elevated, then we're going to be re liberating our xenoestrogens, or estrogens. And so we need to support that. And so, of course, the treatment for that, other than having good bowel movements and good micro flora, is calcium declurate. But then we see glutathione conjugation, methylation. All those are phase two functions. And so it's taking a toxic substance, making it into a water soluble one, which of course, becomes very, very dangerous, because, of course, our body is largely water. So we make fat soluble things, you know, water soluble things, and we make them more and more water or semi aqueous. Then of course, they can distribute and redistribute. Not much different than if we were to do a Mercury detox, and we're not getting rid of the mercury, we're just liberating the mercury. Then we have, of course, Mercury droplets, free floating. So the phase two is just a way to help sequester and get it into a solid state, to eliminate through our water works.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:42
Okay, great. Okay, Steve, I don't know if Stefan's still here. If that answers the question, then Dr ace bato, does it mean that IV NAD is a waste of time because NAD cannot penetrate the cell membrane? Actually, I'm

Speaker 1  1:26:59
going to be giving a lecture on that topic, and so there's a comparison. Are we still within the CME or not? No, we're out. Okay, so I'm giving, actually, a lecture on the 28th with coronagen on IV and r versus IV NAD, IV NAD takes a much longer a period of time, IV in our much shorter period of time, and IV NAD has some side effects associated with it, IV nr, and the initial study was very well tolerated, and even after the fact, converts nicely into NAD. So are you doing something wrong by doing IV NAD? No. Could you see more patients and potentially have better compliance, less side effects while you do an IV in our The answer is, literature does appear that way, and it triggers less of an immune response. The other thing which happens with NAD is, NAD is usually intracellular, and so the moment we have a lot of free floating NAD in our body, the body can misinterpret that as a cellular catastrophic event, like a hazmat event, and that it creates an inflammatory response and immunologic response to the NAD being extra cellular, opposed to intracellular. So that might be one of the reasons why NAD IV has quite a few more side effects than the NR IV is because it's more, you know, it's free, floating in the plasma, the serum. But is it? Is it wrong to do? No, of course not. Is it better than a pokenai? Yes, it is

Bill Clearfield  1:28:41
okay, my experience with the IV NAD is that the patients are cardiac wise, are extremely sensitive to it. You have to run it very slowly, yes,

Speaker 1  1:28:50
and the period of time is a fraction for running IV and R, and you still move the needle in the same direction and with better compliance, and they'll show up a second time.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:05
Yeah, yeah, that happens too, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:08
I'm giving that talk on the 28th

Bill Clearfield  1:29:12
for correct, you were going to give us a little something on for the tropon, you said, now

Speaker 1  1:29:19
we're off. So the phototropin, it's, I have a whole nother lecture series on it. Phototropin is from fertilized egg yolk patina Europe. It's life allies, which means freeze dried, which keeps the active constituents, and it's been shown consistently to lower myostatin, increase protein synthesis, decrease anabolic resistance, and it's very promising. And what's beautiful about it back to that Andrew Weil, or true traditional medicine, before the advent of Fleming and penicillin and whatnot, everything was natural. All of our ancestors in the past did things in a non pharmaceutical way. One of my the president of the nature of Catholic University, was a PharmD, and I directly reported to him as the dean of nature of ethical medicine. And he wrote a beautiful paper saying that 1/3 of commonly prescribed drugs have natural origins. Think nice statin. Think, of of course, the penicillins. Think of so many of the drugs out there, and it's like, okay, well, there's all there's all these natural origins, but when you have a food in the truest sense of the word, like and fertilized, unlike what we see in the store, which are unfertilized eggs, a fertilized egg protein which has patents and six pieces of literature supporting this outcome, Many of you may be familiar with Dr Evans, which lectures extensively out of Berkeley and elsewhere on sarcopenia. He actually was the chief investigator showing the 18% increase in protein synthesis with the use of phototropin So it's one of the things I have many patients that are always pursuing weight loss. And of course, we're in a new year now. So guess what? The advent of new year's resolutions are there, and so I'm wanting to see that work well for them. And I have, like I said, the two strange muscular dystrophy patient I have my four that fell off the ladder, which has is on osteoporosis protocol and elevated myostatin also decreases the osteoblast activity. So if you can lower the myostatin, you'll actually improve the osteoblast and decrease the osteoplast activity, so bone muscle and just overall performance. So it's kind of nice. It's also, of course, if you think of a genetically mutated or modified animal, if their myostatin levels are totally wiped out, they become muscle bound, much like the steroid meatheads on Mr. Olympia on bodybuilding things they just literally so you need a little myostatin to keep things in check. But most of us in our modern life and lifestyle are excessive on our myostatin, leading to anabolic resistance, less iris and less running of our tissues, and sarcopenic obesity, or it's a geriatric syndrome, as they say. So this is part of my protocol, along with supporting NAD levels and mitochondria above. And it works really, really well. I mean, from my clinical experience,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:24
okay, great. Dr Nario, you have some online email questions?

Speaker 4  1:32:30
Yes, I do great lecture. Dr melitis, thank you for me for my personal curiosity. Do you still check myostatin first before using 40 troponin or you just have your clinical, I guess, diagnoses on patients, and that's enough for you to start that.

Speaker 1  1:32:48
No, I go ahead and just usually treat presumptively. I my patients are most I run a concierge practice, and then I run a practice for the poor. So I play Robin Hood out of my own practice. So like, just on a piece of trivia, how I had all those community clinics? Well, like right now, I have a 29 year old man with a genetic condition that guarantees for the rest of his life they'll fight cancer. He's on his second cancer. He had sarcoma early in his life. Now, at 29 he has a glioblastoma multiforme, and we give we set them like $3,000 worth of free supplements every two months out of my practice, and all according to something much greater than me, that we have that ability. But most of my patients are on such strict protocols and do so much testing, I don't see the need to do the myostatin testing, but if could I quantify it, the answer is yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:39
I just have

Unknown Speaker  1:33:40
anybody could use this, basically, just

Speaker 1  1:33:42
to prevent, unless you, unless you have an egg allergy. Well, okay, it's a it's evident. It's egg based. So, yeah, that would be a bad thing. Now the others, the other qualifier for the myostatin or the phototropin is there's one study that was rodent and young athletes that showed it did increase mTOR. Of course, we know mTOR can increase with exercise as well. But of course, there's a concern of mTOR with cancers. And so if I had a patient with cancer, like my sister with inflammatory breast cancer that's now gone metastatic throughout her body. So if anybody has solutions for that, let me know. Um, the Yeah, I even though she's sick, her weight stable, and I'm I wouldn't risk it, because it's an unknown entity, just, you know, too precarious the situation. So cancer and egg allergies are my two contraindications right now, in my clinical perspective of when I would call it a no fly zone,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:41
you use rapamycin, rapamycin,

Speaker 1  1:34:43
FM denaz, all for them to

Unknown Speaker  1:34:47
inhibit the mTOR somebody.

Speaker 1  1:34:50
Yeah, I would, I would, I would. I mean, actually, I was just talking to a New Zealand healthy aging pharmacist, and rapamyc is one of our conversations, David. So I'm trying to source a couple things for her that she can otherwise source. So rapamycin is something which I need to do a little bit more say, of course, rapamycin, from a healthy age and longevity perspective, of course, has tremendous popularity, but so I'm yet to determine whether or not that's the right one. She happens to have a check to Gene and a BROCA gene and a couple other oddball luck of the draw genetics of my mom and dad, so, and terrible thalassemia. So she went from MCV, if you're familiar all with thalassemia, normal MCV, of course, 8200 her normal MCV is 57 but thanks to the chemo and other things she's been on, and anemia of a hemoglobin of 7.4 right now, but her MCV is over 100 so for normal status, is a 57 on her MCV, and she's over 100 right now on her MCV, which, and of course, her rd w is crazy. So yeah, I do a lot of biochemical testing and tracking, and she's one hot mess. Sadly, enough.

Speaker 4  1:36:04
Interesting. Yeah, 40 trope. And one of the questions in the email here is, where do you get it? Since we're not a CME anymore, you get it from

Speaker 1  1:36:15
miles, MD, m, y O S M D, M, y O S, M, d.com, and if you email me, I can connect you with the person I buy it from, which is the director of sales. And I'm just like you folks, I just routinely, you know, buy things that I find helpful. So just natural med man at hotmail, which seems like a funny email for a guy that's done what I've done in my life, and I've been very blessed. That was created in 1997 thanks to a gentleman worth a $100 million which was a benefactor of the college. And he stood behind me having to work for the Carter and Nicks administration. And I had a big brick phone back then for those old enough to remember the brick phones. And he's, I said, Jim. His name is Jim. Short. He owned part of Bush gardens and YouTube recording studio and so forth. And he says, Chris, I'm going to want to communicate with you in a timely fashion, because he wanted to create WebMD before WebMD existed. And he put me in charge of doing that beta of that. I says, Jim, I have a dedicated fax, you know, behind their locked door, and I have a cell phone. He says, I want to email you. He called me. He was a six year old guy. I'm a 30 year old guy at the time. He says, you don't have an email, do you? So I created a natural med man at a Hotmail and I keep it out of reverence to that moment when he called me out. He gave me two pieces of other random advice, don't do anything you don't want in a Washington Post. Being a Washington insider, and nobody sort of care what's in your inbox when you're dead. Those were his fatherly piece of advice from him. And get an email, Chris, but this is your email, natural

Unknown Speaker  1:37:53
med man, natural bed man at hotmail. But

Speaker 1  1:37:55
that's the story behind it. Not that anybody really wanted to know, but TMI,

Speaker 4  1:37:59
it was, we'll barrage your email for a lot of questions. So you're welcome,

Speaker 1  1:38:04
and just be warned, I might fire back with what you do. You happen to know anything about I love learning from one another. We're stronger as a team, Team, human right?

Speaker 4  1:38:16
So here's another question. I think these are part of the studies that you flashed. So any be because I think you were flashing 1000 milligrams on those in our studies. Yes, if you take less, would you still get results? Or you suggest starting at the baseline of 1000 milligrams.

Speaker 1  1:38:37
I'm for example, with my sister Sharon, had 500 and but most so the clinical trials, like on Parkinson's disease, which I have given probably over a dozen lectures on various things from autoimmunity to neurodegeneration, Alzheimer's and so forth. But 1000 is really the mainstay of the research. 500 works, 300 milligrams was done in a pharmacy phonetic pharmacodynamic site, showed about a 51% increase in NAD levels. At 1000 milligrams, we went super physiological with 141% increase of NAD but of course, if, for those of you that sat on IRB boards, institutional review boards, it costs so much to do studies, so people go for a number that they think will move the needle. So otherwise, if it was an underpowered study on intervention, then of course, it shows nothing. But 1000 is what most of the studies are at some are as high as 2000 for me, personally, I take 1000 at it.

Speaker 4  1:39:39
Yeah, and that's hefty on the price when you mentioned true nitrogen, so that's kind of one of the more pricier NAD in the market. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:39:47
it's but it's the one that which has the most human clinical trials, right? And oodles of free clinical trials, and won several awards. I mean, I'm just an educator for them. I saw I'm 1099, do not. I'm not incentivized to say that, but I just I have confidence.

Speaker 4  1:40:04
So, Oh sure, yeah, it's a good product. And I saw your little fancy booth in a firm, and you guys were offering Nadi and our IVs over there. I think that was also

Speaker 1  1:40:15
in our shots and in our pushes and in our drips. Yeah, that

Speaker 4  1:40:22
was, that was a cool bit that you guys did over there. So with any D is another question, should you start low dosing and then escalate? Or you can start with high doses immediately?

Speaker 1  1:40:33
I think that becomes a philosophical question. So at the biochemical level, and this is me being philosophical. We're at microgram and nanogram and picogram dosing. So the question is, how much is absorbed and how much does get to the cellular levels? I think if you were cautious, or you're concerned of feeding an unwanted pathway, start low and so on the consumer side of things, nicotinamide riboside is available at 300 milligrams. At a professional level, it's 500 milligrams is the common oral dose, po dose. So yeah, but I think start low, because if we can nudge the human body, there's no reason to shove it. So in my opinion, there's times for being for Coney and then save the bacon, and, you know, clear the decks and throw the the boats and life reserves overboard. But yeah, I like to nudge start with 500 and most of my patients are on 500 those with Parkinson's. And once again, disclaimer, you know, of course, cater to the patient or Alzheimer's or cardiomyopathy or some serious kidney diseases. They're on much higher doses because the risk benefit ratio is such.

Speaker 4  1:41:52
I also start high with these pathologic conditions. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:41:55
and there's a Parkinson's lecture that was given by a doctor in Scandinavian country, Dr Zulus of the good Greek but a transplant to Scandinavian countries. And all of these lectures are available at the true nitrogen professional website, which I can, once again, provide you the link for. It's very simple. It's all free access, and they have all the state of the science data on all the studies for all the conditions that they've studied, which are extensive. They even have an orphan drug status pending for ataxia talent Asia, which otherwise has no known interventional health.

Speaker 4  1:42:33
So from from what I'm hearing is, are you worried about OD on NAD or not? Really, there's no such thing. Once

Speaker 1  1:42:40
again, if the question is, if, let's talk about mitochondrial support in general. So if you have a patient with cancer like my sister, which is now metastatic, could do those cancer cells, whether there be anaerobic or aerobic, glycolic or non glycotic, could you feed unwanted cells if a person was in the throes of a battle, you could but at the same time, lots of tumor cells. And once again, I'm not an oncologist, but unfortunately, I've been forced into that realm with my sister for last two years here in Oregon. She was diagnosed in February of 2023 at the age of 54 and they told her what we're gonna put you on hospice. So she moved down to Texas and went to MD Anderson, and now she's worked out of California group of hospitalists. But that we know that the T cells become under fueled, and often, if we don't have enough fuel for our T cells and our immune system, of course, in the battle is unfair. But then the question is, if we support the mitochondria at any level, not just in R, but CO, Q, 10 or anything else, are we also potentially feeding apparent cells or abnormal cells? So it's a philosophical question, and one of the researchers that are on the Scientific Advisory Board of true nitrogen Doctor Brody Feldon actually recommends nr and NAD support for her cancer patients. So

Speaker 5  1:44:09
let me, let me go ahead and add something there regarding cancer cells. Cancer Cells hates the mitochondria, and they suppress the mitochondria because mitochondria is, A, it's a, it's like a clock bomb inside the cancer cells. And normally, you know the sales when they get abnormal mitochondria sense that, and they end up blowing up the whole cells, which is called the mitophagy, yes, and that's the reason cancer does secrete chemicals that suppress the mitochondria. So anything that activates the mitochondria, I think it's in a good interest for destroying the cancer, because then you turn on the bomb and you blow up the cancer. That's why polyphenols and metal and blue and all this good stuff does help to blow blow up the cancer. But again, the reason may not you get much that respond that you are looking for, like, Okay, if that's the case, why? Why we don't eliminate the cancer? Because cancer is very intelligent, and they use many strategies, and you need to work on all the strategies, not just one aspect of it. You cannot shoot it when from one corner, you mean, you can end up shrinking a little bit, but there's many layers. It's like an onions and and then you need to go through all those layers, which is, you know, the fibrosis that that cause the blood visits to be squeezed out, preventing lymphocyte infiltration, the chemicals from the cancer that mobilize or polarized immune system away from th one into T, REG and th, 17 and th two. So there's many things, and that's the reason, you know a lot of doctors, they say, oh, let's just do a keto diet, or do sugar, whatever, insulin shots, or all of this. You know, it's, just one of the layer, but they're not peeling the whole layers, and that's why they don't see the dramatic effect on the cancer treatment. Yeah, and

Speaker 1  1:46:07
you're quite correct, Doctor. In the case of my sister, over the last two years, she went from estrogen positive progesterone positive to estrogen and positive or negative. For both, she went from hers and negative or normal to hers positive, and all because the cells continue to mutate. She's been told just recently to go on a methionines, to lower her methionine levels because of the work of Dr Hoffman on the fact that cancer cells like methionine, of course, is an essential amino acid. So yeah, the complexity of it. And so my answer, in part, is a medical legal answer of defensibility, and even though it's my sister, but in the larger Hall, we always have to watch each other's back of should we just randomly go for something that I just have a degree of caution, because here in Oregon, for example, if we had prescribed ivermectin during the COVID era, we would have gotten in big trouble. And in fact, if we did not have a Lupus patient already a hydroxychloroquine as of January 2020, who's prohibited and against the law. So I just, I live in that world, having been the Chief Medical Officer at the nature of Matthew university, so I'm not as brave as most,

Speaker 4  1:47:21
right? Well, it's, it's something that we also experience here in Nevada. So here's a one question, where do you do the NAD test for the finger? Um,

Speaker 1  1:47:28
actually, true, nitrogen offers a test they've contracted, and also the IV, the intravenous in our the in our pushes, and all that are contracted through a pharmacy as well. That's the only pharmacy that's contracted to do it right

Speaker 4  1:47:45
now. Oh, wow. They're taking all over the anything related to NAD, they're just doing

Speaker 1  1:47:50
anything related to nr, yes, oh. Nr, sorry, yeah. And you know interesting NMN as an FDA warning that it's not legal to utilize, once again, the FDA for whatever we want to think it's considered a drug at this point in time, and it's not allowed as a supplement, even though it is available as a supplement, yeah,

Speaker 4  1:48:13
this is what David Sinclair was going to harping on, yeah?

Speaker 1  1:48:17
And just like an acetyl cyst did during the COVID era was pulled from all of Amazon, and FDA was going to ban it. And now the literature is quite clear that in a seat in acetylcysteine is beneficial. There's just lots of politics. We're all familiar with politics, and we just when it becomes politics in the board, we just don't want to don't know our names. Please do not know our names.

Speaker 4  1:48:41
Well, last question here, so you mentioned about the benefits of cardiovascular because there was a study that you related through steps, accomplishing a number, number of steps. And then also, there's a study about weight lifting. So is there like a suggestive, specific, suggestive exercise to increase NAD more than the other, or any anything would be, will be beneficial for the patient.

Speaker 1  1:49:08
But both, both resistance training and endurance training, it doesn't have to be high intensity, but walking and resistance training seems to be very important for supporting natural NAD production, but remembering pathways, which you can see here, either you're going to go for tryptophan, that 60 to one conversion of tryptophan to niacin, and then, of course, we're assuming, just like we know about methylene Tetra hydro folate, for example, folic acid being synthetic. But how do we convert our vegetables into the actual form? Each of one of these steps could have a polymorphism preventing us from doing it as well as the next person. And on the TMI side of things, I'm homozygous for six, 7t so I can only convert about 30 to 40% of my folate for my vegetables into methylene Tetra folate. So in my case, I need more of a handout. So whenever I look at these kind of pathways, I have to wonder, which polymorphisms Do we not even know exist that will make a given individual less capable? And that's why the Brenner pathway of in our k1 and two, because of the physiological demand, seems to induce better utilization of nr. But as you can see, the NR eventually gets converted to NMN intracellularly, it's the extracellular part, and NMN does get converted to nr through the CD 73 or, as we learned from Dr hulsa, maybe cyclodextrin is another hack, another biohack. So that's great,

Speaker 4  1:50:41
right? Well, thank you so much. Dr, Chris, you got all my questions next up? Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:47
we put you down for some time in April. Dr, Chris, for the

Unknown Speaker  1:50:53
Yes, I mean just,

Speaker 1  1:50:55
and I would be more than glad to chat, and I can do it a multi faceted. Does have to be a one sided chat, I could enthuse a lot of things.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:03
Okay, alright, I'll send you a couple of dates. Okay, yeah, we'll send you the info on we'll send you the the participant list and the video everybody that is on our in our group, you go to aos, rd.org, I put in the chat for videos or my it's on my YouTube channel, Clearfield Medical Group, there's a question about the cost of the NAD test if you're still here. Dr,

Speaker 1  1:51:30
yes, I'm here. And actually I am not familiar. I think the pricing has changed from a corporate perspective. I remember I 1099 independent educator for multiple different companies, because I just love educating. I love getting paid to learn. And so if you email me on natural med man at hotmail, I'll find out that information, and I will shoot it to it one and all. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:56
okay, don't forget, I have it right here in the chat, CME credits. There's the link there, and it'll be in the next week's email for next week's vision. Next week we have Greg nanacarelli, I hope I said that right for Thorn testing. Is that right? Dr Nario, yes. Not.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:17
Corelli, yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:19
Thanks for

Bill Clearfield  1:52:26
having me. Thank you. And Dr Quinn, you still there? Yeah, any anything, can you hear me? Okay, you'll hear you fine. Any a little update on the on what's going on with the research group?

Speaker 6  1:52:42
Yeah, you know, I'll give you a little update, but I want to tell you that our meetings and the stuff that we cover actually go upwards of two to three hours that we have so many areas that we're looking at right now and again. We really encourage people to if they want to be involved. We had, last time, we had Carol Peterson come in for you. And we've got some, some great one of the things that we're somebody's talking, yeah, one of the things that we're trying to do, you know, as a research group, is we're trying to put together whatever we can, by the way, of studies. And I'll digress one second here. Back to, I don't know if any of you saw the the the the WhatsApp, emails going back and forth from Dr halasa, the doctor Cole and all of this. And it was basically on on who had the better research as far as COVID treatments and all that. And our group on Saturday is more or less dedicated to let's, let's get real world evidence. Let's get some of us who treat the patients and all that. And you know, Nario Clearfield, all you guys that do this, is there a way to data collect on some of this stuff? Because every time a topic comes up, Dr Clearfield, you have, you've used something to treat people, and you're, you guys are a wealth of information that we want to make sure it gets out there. Now, when we combine that with all of the information that Dr Tenno has, we're looking at coming up with a program to maybe offer a master's level degree. Right now they're looking at a possible in foreign countries. There are some connections that Ben zvenia has with the tribal entities that, as you know, also Dr Tano in Africa. There are people out there that are wanting to do this. One of the guys at the strive dinners that I met was from China. He contacted me and said they'd like something from our group also to to talk about regenerative or anti aging medicine. So we have all the people in place that have got the ideas. We're just trying to push two things right, the research and and a possible curriculum for people to to learn from this. And I think it all goes into with what Dr Halas is doing. So in other words, we talk about the fact that we've got so many things going on, we just are looking at teaching, research and policy to get all of these things organized, to move this thing forward. That's kind of where we are. And if, if Carol is still there, she can weigh in on that, or Marie already was on, can weigh into but that's kind of where we are trying to push this monster forward.

Speaker 7  1:55:36
John, you're there education and education so that we have educated patients that aren't just gonna go what you know whenever we talk. So that's my thing.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:50
John, if somebody wants to join, participate. Dr Quinn,

Speaker 8  1:56:00
we are religious every Saturday, at noon, Eastern Time, we meet every Saturday. We've been doing that religiously for a while, and it was going to be for half an hour to an hour, and we go two to three hours. And the more we work, the harder we work, so and lots of things are coming up. And

Speaker 5  1:56:23
so why you don't just meet in in Nevada with Doctor William Clearfield? Because I have strive pharmacy there. I also have a doctor coming from he's coming from Hawaii. Here we go, Doctor John. I have a doctor who does international research medicine conference is going to meet me in Nevada, Reno. And although strive with this company, who is setting up a conference in Hawaii, and he wants to join force with us, and He has lots of Chinese doctors, and I think that will be the best option is really to meet in person, and possibly Teno is coming. Doctor Tano, Doctor William, is there. Why we don't just meet in Reno, Nevada, in person and getting all those people and talk.

Speaker 8  1:57:22
But notice. Yeah, and for me, because of the sick old man, and anything I can do, Bill can do it backwards in Niels, so

Bill Clearfield  1:57:31
can't grow a beard. And

Speaker 8  1:57:36
and Melvin, to what you guys got going on in Reno is already through the roof, so I don't need to be there, and I have been involved politically with some pretty serious shit lately. I haven't mentioned but I'll probably be moving to Hawaii. I already have a home in Hawaii, right? And probably within a week or two, I'll be kicked out of West Virginia and putting up a new residence in Hawaii. So I'm already doing Hawaii. And John, I

Speaker 6  1:58:09
don't think a lot of people consider going to Hawaii as a reason, because you're being kicked out of West Virginia. You know, there's a little difference there.

Speaker 5  1:58:17
No, there's a conference coming up there in May. I'm putting it together with this guys, and then I'm tapping on John and say, I want to go, because I'm finding a reason to go to Hawaii. Never been Hawaii, and I want to see it either somebody's not far away from you, man, let's have this opportunity and go to Hawaii this time. I mean, I have this guy is coming, and He's inviting us, and he wants to join force with us, and getting all the CME and all that stuff. What do we do? From, from your group, which is Bruce, osteopathic, from me, ama, and then, and then brainstorm there possibly can meet at AJ conference in Florida as well. But personal meeting, it just and coming up with a strategy. I mean, Ben, we have the Ben zvina meeting in in Nevada. But the point is that about the tax thing, I did not like it. Yeah,

Speaker 6  1:59:15
you know what doctor law said. Let me interject something here, that meeting went sideways. That was not the purpose of the meeting. Somehow he took over, and I kind of, basically, I won't say, scolded him, but I said, you know, what the heck did you do? That's not what the purpose was. He's got his thoughts and ideas, and that's one thing, but your idea. I love your idea. Normally I would go to the meeting in Reno, but next week, I'm going to be in Hawaii, of all places, at the orthopedics. Today, our company is presenting there, so I'll miss that. Otherwise I would be there. But I believe your idea about getting together is a good one. I would kind of want Dr Burgess to weigh in on that. If you think we're at that point yet, because we're just building foundation and exploring ideas on how to, again, move forward with all of this, because we have so much education, we have people with clinics, and we have all of these things at our disposal. We do need to put it together as a large force as best we can. But again, I think, you know, Dr Burgess and others may have a an idea on how and when we should do that. Well,

Speaker 8  2:00:26
I haven't mentioned anything about meeting some resistance, but I have, and after I spent about four months in the hospitals with pancreatitis, as I was walking out the door of the hospital being released. I was handed three pages that demanded IBC by the West Virginia osteopathic medical board and be banned immediately from society, all Medical Connections, everything, all of my medical surgical credentials be wiped out, taken away, and I was that they the Maryland Medical Board considered me to be a danger to society, so they demanded a hearing Before our West Virginia Medical Board sometime soon, and we've we process for that, so I don't even know what the charges are against me. They won't say, with the obvious things, sex and drugs, that's not what it's about. And

Speaker 7  2:01:35
he was a patient, not a not a doctor. He was in there as a patient.

Speaker 8  2:01:39
Yeah, I wasn't. I was a patient in the hospital, and they reported me to the medical board and West Virginia as being a danger. Now that's the first negative response to me in 40 years. So this is the first time anything negative has been reported to the West Virginia Medical Board. So my point is, I don't know if it's because we're doing integrative medicine, acupuncture, you know, the homeopathy. So if they're coming down on me for that reason, and again, we don't know yet, then we're going to have to have a little better strategy, and I hope we can still work with Dr zvinia.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:30
Zvinia here,

Speaker 8  2:02:31
because, I mean, he's dealing with an entirely different nation. His Indian tribal nation is completely independent of the United States of America and the FDA. So if we can work with him, and we can work in other countries with him, that would probably be a wise move. Anyway, when I get called before the medical board will find out what the hell they're talking about, A, B, I baby.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:10
So there you have it,

Speaker 8  2:03:13
Bill and Bill and I, Bill and I are just lightning rods. Yeah, for some reason we don't try, man. Boom. All right, thank you. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:25
Well, sorry to hear about your tro. How are you feeling?

Speaker 8  2:03:29
Today was my least paying day in four months.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:34
All right, good to know. Yeah, that's extremely

Speaker 8  2:03:37
nice. Thanks Okay, and thank all the all the prayers for you guys, because I don't think I could have made it. This was some pretty rough shit. So

Bill Clearfield  2:03:50
Well, we're glad you're still with us.

Speaker 8  2:03:53
Yeah, man, I'm living and learning we

Bill Clearfield  2:03:58
we've missed you on our travels here. So,

Speaker 8  2:04:02
well, we still, we still have things going on. John,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:05
yeah, we do.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:09
Okay. So again, I mean, it's next week, so it's short notice. It's January 15 to the 19th. Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association, and I guess Dr halass is arranged for AMA credits. It's 31 cm AOA CME credits. If you go the 15th, there's, they have ACLs training. And if you have state requirements for CME credits, all the do CME credits are covered. Also. I'll be speaking. Thursday afternoon, I'm doing the microbiome, and Friday morning, I'm going to talking about functional medicine, laboratory testing. Doctor, or Stephan, is speaking, I think two days, doctor, harass you. Speaking also,

Speaker 5  2:05:00
yeah, they told me on Friday, 94999, 45 or not, or 845, 845, Friday, yeah, 845,

Bill Clearfield  2:05:10
that's Pacific. So it's 1145, Eastern. Alright. I have the I put it in the chat here, if you want to go, if you're interested in it, you can get in touch with me. It's Nevada, osteopathic.org, I left out a word letter here. So if you're interested in that, and I think they have an online portal also, so you can get it all, don't say that, so people, they can come physically, okay, well, still, I mean, it's a week away, and you have to fly into Reno, which is two two plane rides, usually, especially from the East Coast, and then drive another hour, an hour and a half to you're not

Speaker 5  2:05:53
good in business. Doctor, I'm just being realistic. You're not good in business. Man, I will not hire you as a seller.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:06
We actually do. We actually did better with the online, you know, we didn't have to feed them, and we didn't have to entertain them, and we made, you know, and we actually did better with the online people, so,

Speaker 5  2:06:17
but the physical and having you there entertainment, you know. You know, in this face to face, it's

Bill Clearfield  2:06:23
a good thing. We got to meet everybody that that I get to see on screen here in, you know, a lot of folks like Dr Quinn, who was wearing a shirt at the at the Venetian, and Dr Halas and Dr Peterson and Dr Hartman, you know, and Doctor Nario. It was really nice, you know, just being all together, and we wanted to thank strive pharmacy for feeding us two nights in a row. Um, they gave us t shirts too, which did not hold up in the wash, by the way, it kind of fell apart and shrunk. So good to know, but can't complain. You know, you really can't complain. So So is anybody else have any comments or questions about anything? Get in touch with us if you're interested. I want

Speaker 5  2:07:15
to post my book. Is that okay if I put my Dexter in book here,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:19
push your cyclodextrin book. I

Speaker 5  2:07:22
put, I push my cyclodextrin book so everybody here can order. It's the Amazon thing, but I'm going to have 10 copies there. I bought 10 copies. I'm going to give it for free. If you want your copy for free, just go to Nevada Reno. I got it there. We're good,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:47
okay, yeah, we're good. Did you say you were sending me, sending them to me to take? No,

Speaker 5  2:07:52
I gave it to Bruce. You respond late, and Bruce gave me his address, and I send it from Amazon directly to him. All right, right, all right, good. But I thought, I know Teno has books. He's going to send it to you. I don't know if Teno is here. Is he been Bennett is here? I didn't see that. Monta, yeah, he's not

Speaker 2  2:08:12
here. It's on last night, but didn't see him tonight. Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:08:15
he has books big, but the the textbook of chronic disease. I mean, I don't know how he I think he carried 20 copy or something like that. And I'm like, to Vegas. And I'm like, why you do that? I mean, just ship it, maybe ship it to Quinn, and Quinn would bring it to Vegas, uh, but carrying it all the way from Minnesota, wherever he is, it's very long. It's heavy, heavy too.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:42
Okay? Good for him. Alright. Next week, what are we? What is I will I have written down as Thorn testing. What is that?

Speaker 4  2:08:49
No, it's a new metabolic testing, I guess panel that's out there. So they're going to have all these fancy discussions about metabolism.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:00
Okay, all right, I'm giving it to anybody is using nano drill? Is doing nano drill on

Unknown Speaker  2:09:09
anybody use that last night? Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:09:13
anybody's use is it injectable? Right for muscles? Nobody's using it here in this group. Nobody seems like, Okay, well, Dr William, I using it or no, I've

Bill Clearfield  2:09:29
used ox angelone A little bit, not, not a whole lot, but not, not the neanderthalone. So is

Unknown Speaker  2:09:34
it good or bad? What you have experience,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:38
you know, it's okay for what it's, what you know for, what you want it for, you know, it's okay, it's not a, it's not a, it's not a world beater. It's not, you know, a game changer.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:49
But does it build muscles? You think

Bill Clearfield  2:09:51
it does? It does. Yeah. Okay. So, all right. So, all right. So, John, keep us informed on about your, your, your, your newest troubles. Doctor Mario, when are you leaving for Tucson?

Speaker 4  2:10:11
This weekend? It's going to be a short trip.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:15
I mean, are you, are you going like you're going to be there for two years? You know?

Speaker 4  2:10:19
No, no, I'm going to be back and forth. So that's how the fellowship works, alright?

Bill Clearfield  2:10:24
So, alright, so don't forget about us little people here.

Speaker 5  2:10:28
Where to sign? Where is that? Is it United States, or outside Arizona? Oh, so it's still United States. Man,

Unknown Speaker  2:10:39
yep, we're going to spread the word?

Unknown Speaker  2:10:40
Might not think so, but so what is the fellowship Doctor Nario? What is that?

Speaker 4  2:10:46
Oh, it's a two year program for Integrative Medicine and Andrew Weil program. Oh, okay, so we're going to, we're going to spread the word over there, and we're, they're, they're going to be added to our group here and watching our videos as part of their assignments. I'll make sure that.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:04
Oh, great,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:07
that's right. It makes sure it's mandatory. We're

Unknown Speaker  2:11:12
going to give grades on it.

Speaker 5  2:11:14
Yeah, they provide CME. Do they provide CME?

Speaker 4  2:11:18
I don't know. It's an actual whole curriculum. Okay, can

Speaker 5  2:11:22
you find out? Can we can provide in the CME? They can come here and get it from Doctor? William Clearfield,

Speaker 4  2:11:28
yeah, I'll penetrate the ranks first, then we'll spread

Speaker 5  2:11:33
when we're in there. So you're going to work like a double agent, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:39
with hidden motives.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:40
Yeah, don't, don't, don't give away all our secrets. You know, all the money we're making doing this, these

Speaker 4  2:11:46
rapamycin will be we give that away. No way. Mandrellone, yeah, that's all for us. I

Bill Clearfield  2:11:55
think we could get, you know what? The one we can give away? Remember the lady that we had on that had the multi level marketing weight loss clubs. I think we can give, maybe we'll give those away the

Speaker 4  2:12:04
mosaic level marketing weight loss. That's, I think

Bill Clearfield  2:12:09
that was in September, so back in September. So

Unknown Speaker  2:12:12
we'll give them good stuff. They'll learn about us.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:16
Alright, okay. Anybody else have any comments questions. We'll have the video up as soon as it's ready, and we'll if anybody's out there wants, you know, has any topics they want to bring up? Doctor, Doctor, I don't know, is Kylie still on? She's gone. Okay? Anybody else has any comment and any any topics you want to bring up or want brought up, please let me know, and we'll we'll see you all again next week, same time, same station, and thank you. I think Dr melitas was pretty, pretty spot on tonight, right? He

Speaker 2  2:12:59
just needs to go a little faster. Yeah, I know you know it wasn't quick enough.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:05
Okay, all right everybody, good night.

Speaker 2  2:13:09
Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai