Unknown Speaker  01:50
You Mike Street,

Unknown Speaker  02:27
you, oh, okay,

Bill Clearfield  02:32
that would, that would, that would be great. Okay, I'm going to send you the email again. Okay, hold

Unknown Speaker  02:46
on. Er,

Bill Clearfield  02:49
Michael, medical, okay, all right, should be on its way. No worries. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  04:50
there he is.

Unknown Speaker  04:54
Hello. How you doing good?

Bill Clearfield  04:58
Are you? Are You Smarter today than you were yesterday.

Unknown Speaker  05:01
Every day I get smarter, learn something new.

Unknown Speaker  05:11
So

Bill Clearfield  05:14
you guys didn't get hit by the hurricanes, did you?

Speaker 1  05:19
Well, that was a while back. It wasn't that bad. I thought it was going to be a lot worse.

Bill Clearfield  05:28
Okay, had

Unknown Speaker  05:29
me sandbagging the whole house.

Bill Clearfield  05:34
You know, I lived in flood zones. They had us doing that too. That never did anything when the floods came, the sandbags, all they did was make even more of a mess.

Unknown Speaker  05:45
Yeah? Well,

Unknown Speaker  05:48
they don't have floods in Nevada, do they

Bill Clearfield  05:50
not Nevada? I lived in Northeast Pennsylvania, that's right, we have floods all the time. Yeah, the five years before I moved out here. I had evacuated three times.

Unknown Speaker  06:05
What a pain.

Bill Clearfield  06:07
Yeah. So, okay, so, and what did you? What did you? You were in Italy, right?

Speaker 1  06:15
Yes, it was in Rome at the functional medicine conference.

Bill Clearfield  06:18
Was it in English, or was it Italian? Or did they suppose

Speaker 1  06:22
they they first day was all Italian. They had a translator radio, but I understood enough where the radio just confused me, so I just listened to the Italian. And then the second day, they had a lot of international speakers, including hair tug, who went up there and did his dog and pony show.

Bill Clearfield  06:40
No, we're going to look at your face and tell you what's wrong with your hormones. And yeah,

Speaker 1  06:45
it's always a hit. And the Italians had never seen anything like it, and so they were floored by it.

Unknown Speaker  06:56
For him, too. Every

Speaker 1  06:57
time I pay for him, I go to the hair talk shows. It's always a fun circus. I love it.

Speaker 2  07:04
Do you sit down in front of the university compounding whenever he does that?

Speaker 1  07:08
Yeah, I had my mom go up there because we went to the Florida one. So I brought mom to the conference and have mom go up there. And he was pointing out things on her, and it was great, because it finally motivated her to increase the dose of the hormones, because she was doing super low doses of estradiol. He's like, Oh, you're low estrogen. So she finally increased the dose. Like, yes, I've been telling you this for like, a year,

Bill Clearfield  07:30
yeah, but now, now, now you know he, he told, he told, you know, he told her. And you know, he's got that cool accent and all, you know, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  07:38
People like it. Orange coat, oh, yes, orange blazer,

Unknown Speaker  07:43
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:45
and orange sneakers sometimes too. Yeah,

Speaker 1  07:48
yeah. He told her also that she needs a vasopressin. Have you guys ever used that

Speaker 2  07:54
once a while? Patrick, Bill, you you use that? Yeah, I've

Bill Clearfield  07:58
used it once in a while. Okay,

Speaker 1  07:59
yeah, so it's one we haven't talked about much on this show. No,

Bill Clearfield  08:06
no, it's not a it's not a usual, but

Speaker 2  08:12
it's part of the protocol, the shoemaker protocol, for ADH regulation, antidiuretic hormone, so related to cosmology of blood, but I know Dr Bill you used that for something else. I remember

Bill Clearfield  08:34
pot syndrome, hypotension, sometimes tinnitus.

Unknown Speaker  08:40
Yeah, yeah. So it has its place,

Bill Clearfield  08:48
right? I can't think of anything else, you know, nobody, almost nobody's heard of it, so at least none of the patience you didn't hear that. Yeah,

Speaker 1  08:59
speaking of it, circumstances. Do you have any things you want to go see in Vegas? Any shows we gotta go see?

Bill Clearfield  09:07
I haven't even, I haven't even looked so I figure halasa will probably have some thing like he did last year. So at some point every year from those guys, I tried to get them on here one night, you know, for and then they, I called them, and they, they said, that sounded great. And then I never heard from them again. You know, you were there, right? That we went to that video place,

Speaker 1  09:30
yeah, I never, I didn't know what was going on there. I just the AI, whatever. Yeah, no, yeah. So I followed them on Instagram. A

Bill Clearfield  09:41
little weird. It was standing there, and the slides were all 360 slide.

Speaker 1  09:46
Yeah, it was a good circus. I liked it. You guys got up there and talked. It was cool,

Bill Clearfield  09:52
I mean, and it was prompt. I didn't know I was going there to talk the, you know, the sound, the sound wasn't great. So

Speaker 1  09:59
anyway, you're, you're, you almost gave your whole lecture on bioidentical hormones in 10 minutes.

Speaker 2  10:06
That's a record. Yeah, with the flashing lights,

Bill Clearfield  10:10
I don't always talk that fast. So yeah,

Unknown Speaker  10:15
hi, good evening.

Bill Clearfield  10:16
Hi there.

Speaker 3  10:17
Do you hear me? So I just joined in. You know, I'm in a different time zone, pretty late over here, I wanted to share with you that a doctor in Switzerland that had medical Jen's Worster has a really nice cancer conference for a small amount of money and had a free webinar and had almost 20,000 participants. Of that gets 500 emails a day, and a lot of people are interested in how to cure or help cancer with the homeopathic medicine and his methods of immune system. So then someone was helping him administer that another organization and from Germany, and then they're being sued for 50,000 euros, and they're being forbidden to teach the course anymore, and the people who have already subscribed are allowed to stay in the course, which I'm included in that group. And so it's just, it's really a trouble that we're being really a block that his his advertisements, everything's been systematically being removed from from the internet, and that's why I stayed up to join in with you, just to, I mean, say this, these things. And then another doctor was here from America, in on in Vienna, and was helping me and my son with all kinds of alternative health in my apartment and things. But it's very, very challenging, because we're being really, we're being really shut shut down. And then me, who's not a qualified medical doctor, just made all these, these different trainings in different kinds of medicine to help my epileptic son and self. So it's really, if it's real, it's, I don't know what we can do, but and language might be a barrier, because different country, they speak German and not English or so. But it's, it's, a learning journey, and it's, sometimes it's a little bit, feels a little bit like wild water rafting, or, I don't know, something like, really, like, really, really, a lot of, a lot of ups and downs and a lot of things happening. So I wanted to share it that I started in you were going to feature me from my son about what I'm doing. And then I started doing these different methods. And here, sometimes things go wrong, frequencies and things can be over overdone. Different methods, too much of a good thing. And so anyway, it's there's not a lot of good navigation, except for, you know, except for allopathic medicines. And I, my son, was in a life, life threatening situation from too much of everything. Maybe they had to just slow down and however to get to get help of these people is a very limited thing, because the allopathic medicine doesn't it's blocking these, these important channels of us like talking and sharing ideas of each other, Because when this doctor in Switzerland is doing a really good thing and helping people very precisely, then it gets in the same time forbidden to sell certain forms of medicine. And luckily, I

Bill Clearfield  13:55
luckily we know. We know all about that. We've just about everybody here has been been involved with that one form or another. So,

Unknown Speaker  14:04
right, okay, like,

Bill Clearfield  14:07
okay, so if you can get me his contact, I'll, I'll see if we can get him one, and we can do some collaboration. We have our Dr Quinn's with us, and I know who else on the Saturday. You know, we have the the research group. Doctor Tano and yeah, Doctor

Speaker 4  14:28
zavinia, can't he's on there on on Saturdays judge. Doctor, he can't make it tonight. He said, give you his best. He's stuck in traffic here in Vegas, but he's one of the main participants on Saturday, because he's got a a brick and mortar facility that we're looking at putting together and using, plus a guy coming in who's also from here to put in a tribal apothecary and all that kind of stuff. So we're moving forward with that. We're we're looking at using the information that I have, that you have, that every you know. Dr Nario Stefan, Dr Tano for an educational program as well. I don't know if Ben told John, I want to take up all the time here, but what he had, he had said, Is that the way the tribes are set up is they're not doing conventional type things. There are no doctors. And this isn't that there's certified tribal practitioners and certified tribal healers, and that's kind of the way that people will fall on it. You may know that, but that that's kind of what's happening on that end. Yeah, tackle has put forth a lot of info. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  15:36
I know he knows. He knows. He knows the those ins and outs. So, yeah, you know, you need somebody like Jay Campbell, who's got no degree on anything he knows, you know, you know. And he knows a lot about hormones and a lot about peptides. He throws things out there that are, you know, not, not to my liking, but nobody. No, there's nobody to tell him. You can't say that, because, right, you know, he's got no degree. So he's got no no, he's got nobody, you know, to say that he that he's no good. So,

Unknown Speaker  16:08
yeah, he can't be. Maybe

Bill Clearfield  16:11
Theresa, you're better off being a lay person and escape, have escaped the medical quagmire. So, right?

Speaker 3  16:17
The same, yeah, like wood wig that I admired so much. You know that that I feel the same way, and I feel really grateful to be a liaison. Like to be just a fly on the window sill, or what I like to call you up, or ring up Dr Worster and like, Alright, get get the get the low down. You know what to do, order this remedies and everything. And they say, Okay, we'll allow you to do it for private people. Can still order these, for example, Q potencies of homeopathic medicine and just but then it's up to us, who are the lay people to know how to, how to do that stuff, because they have limited, limited help from these kind of little guru, things you know, of making these expensive courses and things, you know, then you got to run with it. Like I bought some expensive frequency devices, and I could have killed my son of over, over stimulating his immune system with frequency. It's not only enough just to, you know, I mean, for me to try out these different things, but the lay people also have to be very good at, like keeping in touch with you and the other ones to support us. Because, for example, in Austria, doctors don't usually work on the weekends or the night shifts or all all things. And so sometimes we can botch a situation from these kind of well meaning things. And then I found that allopathic medicine was at least, was at least a safety net when it's between, like, life and death, like to cause status up, Status Epilepticus or something, would, you know, to be over overzealous in, in, in hormone supplements and frequency and globules and blah, blah, blah. And then the body is like, used to, used to chemicals, drugs.

Bill Clearfield  18:15
We we try, we try, we try to be, you know, balanced. We try not to overdo so well, I

Speaker 3  18:22
try, I try, also to, I'm that's why I wanted to join in, just to, just to have a little bit of feedback from Europe over here.

Bill Clearfield  18:30
Thank you. I know it's like three in the morning there or something, right? Yeah,

Speaker 3  18:34
like, no, it's like two o'clock, okay, early, all

Bill Clearfield  18:38
right. Stefan, that puts a lot of pressure on you tonight, right? You got somebody staying up at two o'clock in the morning, so no worries, right?

Speaker 1  18:48
We'll keep it entertaining here. Try to keep people awake. Try to go fast. Alright, so

Bill Clearfield  18:52
I think you, you know every, pretty much everybody on here, unless they're new, he knows who you are. You know Stefan's our, our resident tennis player, and he's runs the iron direct as I get it right. Iron director, iron direct family practice, primary care, you got it? Almost got it, yeah. Primary care, I'm getting it right. And another 545, years, I have it right. Amazing array of toys that he has for our for his patients, that he's he alludes to, it's from time to time. And someday, maybe I'll get down there and I'll get get a tour of it.

Unknown Speaker  19:34
I'd love to have you.

Bill Clearfield  19:36
So let us begin. All right, okay, and just take it away. Here we go.

Speaker 1  19:50
Alright, so we're gonna get everyone in the festive spirit for this Christmas. Here, I have put together the 12 days of Christmas, 12 medical myths you believe or probably don't, because you guys are pretty savvy, but most people still believe from pediatrics to adults, and we're going to start with some really common like low hanging fruits, like stuff that the general practitioner is dealing with on a day to day basis. In an urgent care and internal medicine clinic, you're going to get pet errants come in and think they need antibiotics for their kids, and lo and behold, most of the time they get these prescriptions, as you're going to find out in some of these studies here. But you know, when you look at placebo controlled studies, non inferiority studies, where they compare amoxicillin to placebo, you really don't get that much expedited benefit towards resolution of symptoms, some suggest, and the positive note, maybe about 16 hours quicker resolution of symptoms. So why are these prescribed so much? It may be a lot of cya medicine or a lot of client centered medicine. You know, when I worked urgent cares throughout Florida, I was told that I had to prescribe the antibiotic to make the patient feel like they got what their moneys was worth. And so this, I think urgent cares actually drive a lot of this problem. And then the ops like myself were hired to generate revenue at these urgent cares. And our employment is dependent on the patient satisfaction. If we get enough bad Google reviews, Yelp reviews, we're probably out the door till the next Candyman comes in and fills these things. But sometimes you can, especially if you run your own practice, you can really avoid these antibiotic prescriptions. Just tell these patients about these studies, like, listen, really, you're not going to get better much quicker. Most of these ear infection issues are viral. Let's move on to this. Is another common one we always get. It is trying to lower fevers, so parents will immediately knee jerk reaction to the Tylenol to treat a fever, and say, What are we treating? Why are we treating a symptom? And you have to explain it to parents, because parents are worried that the patient will have or the child will have a febrile seizure. And I worked with this ER doctor for many years, and he explained this every night we'd be running in 2am parents would bring the child in for fever, and he said the only risk really of a febrile seizure is if the child is standing at the top of the stairs, has a seizure, falls down the stairs and hits their head and gets a bleed in the head. That's the problem with a febrile seizure, but the febrile seizure itself is really not pathologic, and then there's a lot of time and money invested into working up these children who have a hosted hotel fever. They get EEGs. And the value of these is very, very, very low. Spends a lot of time and money, and, you know, trauma for the child with pretty much no results. And then you have to also explain to the parent that the Tylenol depletes the glutathione, which is the body's antioxidant, helps the children fight off these high oxidative stress conditions like COVID, which is probably the main dominant strain going around, giving people oxidative stress, giving People fevers and fevers themselves actually help control the infection. It's the body's natural way to fight off infections. Is heating, it delays the viral replication. Let's move on to the other big one. Can I

Bill Clearfield  23:34
throw in? Can I throw in a little acupuncture trick?

Unknown Speaker  23:38
No, no more the merrier. Anybody knows

Bill Clearfield  23:41
what the ting a ting point? So the ting point of the large intestine meridian, which is the medial nail angle of your of your index finger, take a sterilize the needle and and and put your put a put the needle in there and pull it out and just get a drop of blood and the fever will go down about two degrees. No medication. You've

Unknown Speaker  24:07
done this in pediatrics, and they don't I pass. I've done

Bill Clearfield  24:10
it. I do it a lot. Yeah, wow. Okay, so that's just my two cents on that. Sorry, that didn't mean to interrupt. All

Speaker 1  24:15
right, I don't know if I'll that's

Bill Clearfield  24:19
always a favorite one. So I shall

Speaker 1  24:21
okay this one. I come from a background in sports and exercise science, kinesiology, and I worked with a lot of athletes, and the the staple of that sort of patient population is get an injury, give them ibuprofen, ice it, cool it off. And we're now learning the recent data is showing that if you do this at the onset of injury, you actually delay their healing. And it this specifically the ibuprofen and the NSAIDs orthopedics have known this for some time. And if you go to orthopedic surgeon, they'll say, avoid the N seeds, because they delay the bone healing, the muscle but tendon the ligament repair. And we're now learning that this is the same for athletes as well. So the athlete that thinks they're savvy by taking an ibuprofen right after their injury or their sprained ankle, they're actually going delay the repair of that injury by taking this because it blocks certain repair cytokines. And then there's the latest stuff that saying that maybe you shouldn't even get into cold and cryotherapy too for an acute injury, but I still use that because it's a decent pain management and these people do have pain. So if we're going to avoid the NSAIDs, we can still do maybe some cryo. Oh, there's your acupuncture chart. Dr Clearfield, we're getting to that. Hey,

Speaker 4  25:40
Stephan, can I? Can I drop something in here real fast, haven't you? Please? I'm in it. Yes, it's really strange. But those of you who follow Major League Baseball, and you're and you know that there are a lot of strong pitchers coming over from Japan, what's happening is it, they don't ice down after pitching right, they let the body heal and slowly cool down. When they get here, they're icing down, and every single one of these guys is undergoing either a shoulder or an elbow operation, and at least one of them so the icing is not the way to go.

Speaker 1  26:19
Yeah, yeah, I've battled with this myself. I have used the ice bath because I own the morosco cold forage at my clinic. It maintains 34 degrees. It's great for pain. Benefits. It helps heal or decrease pain, inflammation of arthritis, any sort of pain, neck pains. And I will use it after a hard day's tournaments, grinding on the hard court for hours because I oftentimes have to play it right the next day, and it does help me repair and heal so that I can get out there, especially if I have to play two matches a day. But I do agree that it's probably not the best for recovery in the sense that specifically, if you're trying to build muscle, doing cryotherapy, specifically after resistance training, will inhibit the muscle growth, because if you have to understand when you lift weights, you precipitate inflammation in the muscle, and this inflammation stimulates the muscle to grow. So it makes no sense to cool it off. It also makes no sense to take an ibuprofen after a strength training routine where you're trying to cause a muscle inflammation to grow. So I definitely don't recommend the cryo post strength training activities. Okay, Clearfield, we're going to get to your acupuncture chart. Here we go. Number four,

Bill Clearfield  27:39
what do you recommend for what? Well, on your instead of NSAIDs and ice for an acute injury.

Speaker 1  27:51
Well, I think the lesser of two evils would be the ice for the pain. Other than that, peptides, of course, BPC 157 and thymosin beta four. They're the best healing modalities we have right now. So if we have it, we'll use that. Of course, second best would be cold, last and cheapest would probably be ibuprofen, but we try to avoid that.

Bill Clearfield  28:13
Somebody Dr esavos asked about red light therapy.

Speaker 1  28:18
Yeah, we have that as well in the clinic. That's good. It doesn't provide that immediate pain benefit, but I think will promote tissue healing a little bit better.

Speaker 2  28:27
One of the faster ones, also in homeopathy, would be ARCHA. So that's always going to be immediate injuries, acute injuries. I use it in the clinic a lot, and Germany has a good product with a for this. It's called True meal, something out there.

Speaker 1  28:44
Yeah, we use Tramiel a lot back in Germany, when I lived there, it's fantastic. You put it on a bruise, takes the bruise away. I love it.

Bill Clearfield  28:50
I don't think you can get it here now, though, that's a problem. Yeah,

Speaker 2  28:55
they get some adulterated stuff. It's not true meal, but Arnica still works. It's one of our go tos.

Bill Clearfield  29:05
All right, I accidentally muted you. Stephan, yeah,

Speaker 1  29:08
I saw that. I'm back. All right, so myth number four on our advent calendar is vasectomy is perfectly safe. Now, this was a huge meta analysis they looked at, and they found an association between vasectomy and prostate cancers, and there's an increased risk with those and they really had no answer as to why this is happening. But if we draw on Clearfield knowledge and old Chinese medicine, this would be kind of obvious why this might happen, because you're blocking the vas deferens, which is a powerful channel of Chi energy. And it kind of makes sense, from a Chinese medicine perspective, that if you block a conduit of powerful qi energy, that you can get a retention of of energy, and you block the flow, and then you can potentially have an abnormal response in the human body. What do you think? Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  29:59
yeah, I mean, that's, you know, that's sort of the, sort of the bedrock of, you know, you know, Chinese and Japanese medicine. So, yeah,

Speaker 1  30:07
and you know, we're going to go to this conference next week, and there's some lectures that will say, Well, the best contraception is vasectomy. Now, this is not without risk. And we know now, no, okay, next one testosterone for for Dr Clearfield here the myth that testosterone isn't primary care. We now know that testosterone replacement therapy, it decreases mortality. All cause mortality. So you know across the spectrum, bone density, better cardiac health, depression across the board. Testosterone therapy is beneficial. It should be. Primary care. It's not really just, you know us here, we do it in primary care. It's got a lot of bad reputation. It's because a lot of mainstream media mis information, propaganda. James Cameron, you know, famously stated when I was making Titanic and Avatar, I was a wild, testosterone poisoned young man, and he now promotes plant based diets, vegan meats and so forth. So we have a lot of that out there, but if we treat our patients with hypogonadism and type two diabetes, we can improve their fasting glucose, their a 1c will get lower, their fasting insulin level will get lower. My approach, and my primary care is a muscle centric medicine approach, because muscle is medicine, and it's our buffer against these metabolic diseases. And if we can add a little bit of testosterone onto a hypogonadal male. Get him to lift some weights, he's going to have a whole lot more benefit from this activity than, you know, just weight lifting alone or just trying to walk it off. So you know, our metabolic disease in the US is the primary driver of our diseases, and we can, we can reverse this with testosterone and a muscle centric medicine approach, anything else? Well,

Bill Clearfield  32:06
I mean, I could go on all day on this one, of course, you know it's it's an antidepressant, it's an anti anxiety agent. You can pinpoint total testosterone level in males at 295, and females at 22 under that they're at risk for major depression, and a at 148, for males and 11 for females, is Frank depression. So any of your patients that have you know mood, mood disorders, anxiety, depression, poor sense of self worth, and they're on all sorts of medications and it's not working. You really need to take a look at their at their hormones. Men over the age of 60 who have a consistent total testosterone greater than 600 for more than five years after the age of 60 on average, discounting any other factors, will live 12.2 years longer than those who don't similarly matched. So it's truly an anti aging agent. And we've done lectures on how to raise testosterone levels without using testosterone. We've done it with Western herbal medicine. We've done it with homeopathic remedies. We've done it. I'm actually doing a lecture for the American Academy of Medical acupuncture in in March, using Japanese acupuncture techniques. So we're, I'm in the middle of putting, putting that together. So, you know, as my, one of my acupuncture teachers used to say it about, he'd give a patient a bag of real Chinese herbs, the twigs, the rocks, you know, there would be bugs in them. And patients would ask, what is it? And his answer was always the same, good stuff. Yeah, so it's good stuff. And you know, it's a shame that when you, if you, if you go into Dr Google and put in testosterone and and blood clots, comes up, is that we'll

Speaker 1  34:13
get to that one next, but I'll draw your attention to the right column here. So this is important for all of us using GLP one therapies here, because this study showed that while TRT did not augment diet induced loss of fat mass, it prevented diet induced loss of muscle mass. So we, I think we should be putting all of our GLP one patients on anabolic therapies to stave off the muscle wasting that potentially can happen with with the caloric restriction.

Bill Clearfield  34:44
How do you feel about like just DHEA as a precursor?

Speaker 1  34:48
Well, we now know that doesn't always work to translate to testosterone,

Bill Clearfield  34:52
you know. But you know lot of folks here, and a lot of folks we teach, you know, can't prescribe stuff medication, so, you know, DGA is a pretty potent precursor,

Unknown Speaker  35:05
true.

Bill Clearfield  35:06
And, you know, there's, there's a whole, whole host of ways to raise testosterone.

Speaker 1  35:12
It's true. But I guess specifically for I'm thinking GLP, one where you're losing a lot of calories, a lot of weight, we need to try to preserve some of that weight, which is the bone and the muscle.

Bill Clearfield  35:24
Yeah, so we've been using creatine, five grams a day, and then SS 31 peptide, also as a sub, sub sub culin and like twice a week, half a cc.

Speaker 1  35:39
Is that a growth hormone analog?

Bill Clearfield  35:43
No, it's a muscle. It's a muscle building peptide. Oh, okay, I'll

Unknown Speaker  35:47
look into that. It's a new information. It's independent.

Speaker 1  35:51
Yeah, so this is a good one for the patients with heart failure. You have a lot of cardiologists that will be worried about testosterone, but there's some studies to support that will help improve their ejection fraction. So give this to your cardiology friends. Even if they're scared about it,

Bill Clearfield  36:08
they won't look at it anyway.

Speaker 1  36:14
Here's a bit more on testosterone, and the big myth doesn't testosterone replacement cause prostate cancer. And Dr morgen teller has beaten this one to death and showing that it doesn't accelerate prostate cancer, it improves their quality of life if they have prostate cancers, he's been ballsy enough to give guys with active prostate malignancies testosterone and proven that it doesn't necessarily make them die quicker. And the other important thing to know is the incidence of positive prostate biopsies was lowest in hypogonadal men receiving TRT and then also that men with lower testosterone and DHT levels, they may be at risk of more prostate cancer and prostate growth, and that's what I found in my practice as well, is the men with the lowest DHT and lowest testosterone levels oftentimes have the highest PSA and largest prostates, contrary to the mainstream discussions.

Bill Clearfield  37:18
So what do you what do you do? They go to the they go to urologist, they tell them they have prostate cancer, they get some sort of therapy, and now they're three, six months out, and you know, they're dragging around, and their testosterone levels are 80. What do you tell them? Yeah,

Speaker 1  37:35
so if they've already been had that castration therapy, which they probably did, maybe they removed the prostate, especially if they remove the prostate, there's no issue, and they they should get therapy.

Speaker 4  37:47
Well, of course, if, if high testosterone levels are indicative of prostate cancer, then I think probably 90% of all 22 year old males would have it. Yes, that too.

Speaker 1  38:02
And okay, let's see. This is another common one we we hear a lot well, testosterone replacement caused heart attacks. So this is on that FDA label. When they get the bottle, they look at this, and they're like, whoa. This is going to cause a heart attack, but really, no it has beneficial effects on arterial stiffness in older men when you give them testosterone therapy. I think part of this may be related to the estradiol. When you give them testosterone, their estradiol also improves. As we know, estradiol has a method of improving the arterial stiffness, but testosterone may also have a role for that as well, on its own as a standalone but how did this get on the label? I mean, this was some, some small study back in your day, and then it got on the label. It was

Bill Clearfield  38:56
in in 2013 it was right around Thanksgiving, this big bubble who came out was all over the news. It was on, you know, CBS News. It was in New York Times. It was, I mean, it was all over the place. The first 75 days after testosterone therapy, had an increased incidence of heart attacks and strokes. And we were all sitting around, you know, shaking our heads, where did this come from? And there were all sorts of shenanigans done to sort of prove this, including the fact that it was a study of 889 men and 109 patients. There were 111 women in the study, for one thing, and they didn't, they didn't measure anything. They didn't, they didn't do any diagnostics at all. They didn't even look at any what any therapeutics were that they decide, and they used, they used the diagnostic codes to determine if someone had had a heart attack and if they were on testosterone. It with the testosterone was decided that was the that was the cause. It was pretty much shot out of the water, Morgan, Teller and all sorts of groups, you know, they kept changing the wording on it. But by that time, you know the FDA, you know how they are, you know, you get a you get a reflex, you get a guess, you get a knee jerk reflex. And so now it's, you know, it's and that that's when the that label got put on there, that's good, but it's, it's, in fact, we had, I distinctly remember last, not last summer, summer before 2023 I think I relayed that here. We had a guy called me on a Monday. Patient said he'd had a heart attack on Friday night, and he was in the hospital, and he got a stent put in, and he had and he was home, and he was fine. He just wanted to let me know about it. And I said to my assistant, who's been with me for eight years, when was the last time we had anybody in our practice that had a heart attack? I couldn't think of one, not one. And I for 11 years now, and that was the first heart attack that in my practice. Now, back home, when I was in the insurance based, you know, regular white bread medical doctor practice, we had three a week. And that was just, that was just, just the way it was. We had at three a week, you know, you know, John had a heart attack, Sam had a heart attack, you know. And, okay, they're in the hospital. They, you know, and and we've had one heart attack that I that I know of in our practice. And I have over 1100 men, active men in my practice right now, one in 11 years. So, you know, I don't know what anybody else has experienced. The Michael, you've been doing this a long time. And, Dr Nario, I know you're just a kid, so you haven't been doing this quite as long, but I mean, and you know, you see other, other, you know, entities. But like I said, I had one. Really, the the problems with pretty good track record, actually,

Speaker 2  41:59
the problems with testosterone, as studied by Jack Monaco. He was saying it's really more of the higher levels of testosterone in general. When you keep those levels of testosterone at the right amount, these complications are really not going to be found. So it's really about monitoring and just finding out the sweet spot you need to be on that right level. Yeah,

Speaker 1  42:20
that's why body builders oftentimes have to retire the by the age of 35 you know, I follow a lot of these guys. They keep getting more clots and heart attacks, because these guys do super physiologic levels, you know, unbelievably high levels. And they're with age, they have more risk. And then you add something super stressful to the body like that, boom. These guys get clots, heart attacks. Well,

Bill Clearfield  42:44
no. First of all, they're doing all sorts of steroid stacks. God knows what. Half of them don't even know what they're taking to begin with. You know, they shut down. They shut down their gonads at age 22 you know, that's not a good thing to do. You know, early on, when we first started doing this. I've been doing this since around the year, 2000 early on. I mean, we would get our, you know, we, we went by them, we went by the, I call them the gym rats, and and we would, we would get our guys. We goal was 1500 and total testosterone. And we didn't know anything about free back then, and then we would give them estrogen blockers till, till it got to zero. I mean, that was, that's what we did. Wow, we realized that that was wrong, and that was wrong. So now we do seven to 900 I think is a pretty good level. Um, usually we'll start seeing side effects over and again. We're not, I'm not really dealing mostly with bodybuilders, but, you know, seven to 900 is usually a pretty good level free two to 4% on the free and and and estrogen I've I've almost come full circle. The only time we'll treat high estrogens now is if they have estrogens, they're symptomatic of estrogen excess.

Speaker 1  44:02
Have you started giving the men estrogen? No, I

Bill Clearfield  44:05
Come on. I gave one guy, he had an HDL of eight.

Unknown Speaker  44:12
Oh yeah,

Bill Clearfield  44:14
I gave him some estrogen, and it did come up. I haven't done that yet. There's a doctor at ammg that he takes seven himself, seven milligrams of estradiol a day orally. And he his goal. He only does pellets. So you have, you have to remember when you do pellets, the testosterone total the test serum levels are not accurate at all. But he says he wants the serum levels to be 2000 testosterone and the estradiol levels at a minimum of 150 so that sounds a little crazy to me. I don't know about that

Speaker 2  44:53
define you want questions now or later at the end,

Speaker 1  44:57
keep going. Dr armerling, I think he had his hand raised. I'm going to call him into the chat later.

Unknown Speaker  45:02
Richard has a question for you,

Speaker 5  45:04
yeah? Stefan, well, one of the effects of testosterone is to raise the hemoglobin, yes, and hematocrit, and that definitely is a risk factor for thrombosis, coronary and others. And you know, that's something that you really have to monitor in these patients getting testosterone. Yes, yeah, well,

Bill Clearfield  45:27
I could, I could talk to you about that all day. So we, we've, actually, we've looked at that, right? We've had lectures on that also, and the testosterone does not raise white blood cell counts. It does not raise platelet counts, just the red blood cell count. And the there is a slight increase in CVAs from from a general population, 5.3 per 1000 in the general population for a cerebral vascular accident and about, I think it was 8.0 in the testosterone group. But on acute mis and and and thrombo embolic phenomena, you actually get for the thromboembolic and phenomena, it's 10 per 1000 in the general population and eight per 1000 in the testosterone population. So two less, or if you want to play statistics, 20% decrease. And for acute mis 34 per 1000 in the general population over the age of 60, and 30 per 1000 in the testosterone population. So, slightly better, slightly better. I can get you there. I can get you the papers on that. But when I gave a top talk, I don't know if I did it here, but I've done it many times on testosterone complications. And as long, you know, if you as long as the seat in the CBC, as long as the red count and as rather the white count and the platelets are normal, which the testosterone does not touch, you should be okay. And you know where we live, we live, you know, at 4500 the valley floor, where we live is 4500 feet, and it's not too far to go to Lake Tahoe, and you're at 7000 feet. So our hemoglobins here are a little higher than than in Florida. Yes, wow, yeah. So we, we've, you know, you know, we hear it all the time, and usually when the hemoglobins get to 55 I just had a convention, you know, we'll do a phlebotomy, and we do them in the office here. We send them to the drawing station, and they, they give these, they give these guys all sorts of grief, you know, make them fill out 16 page papers. And, yeah, yeah, we just they come in and do it, and they're going in 20 that's

Unknown Speaker  48:02
that's a good idea. I think that's a good idea. When

Speaker 6  48:05
I when I give testosterone, I always give natural kinase and essential fatty acids. I like cod liver oil. Tablespoon of cod liver oil. So I'm always aware of that as a possibility.

Unknown Speaker  48:20
Mm, hmm. Okay. We'll

Speaker 1  48:24
move on to another big myth, that the saturated fat causes heart disease, and you're going to find this from vegan cardiologists, your mother in law and med Twitter influencers, and I've even had the cashiers at Walmart comment on the red meat I was buying and tell me that they don't eat that because it causes heart disease. So here's still a lot, but there's been a paradigm shift from even the American College of Cardiology, they suggest that maybe they've been wrong, and then ingesting saturated fats maybe isn't linked to heart disease, and that maybe we should shift focus maybe more on particle counts and maybe other risk factors like inflammation, then the Brits were onto as well in the BMJ in 2017 that says saturated fat does not clog the arteries, the coronary heart disease is a chronic inflammatory condition, the risk of which can be effectively reduced with healthy lifestyle intervention. And some of those interventions, I like to point out. One of my favorite charts is here, where they compared a couple different dietary modalities to lower triglycerides. So the West Bend low carbohydrate diet had the greatest reduction in the triglycerides as determined by this pink column here, and then the other diets, such as the Jenkins cereal diet, which is propagated by the American Dietetics Association, it had, you know, really insignificant triglyceride changes. So eating grains will increase the triglycerides. And triglycerides probably one of the more important markers if you're going to look at a standard lipid panel for like, $2.50 from lab core, your triglycerides and your HDL are probably the most important information you can glean out of that cheap test. And looking at that ratio, you can you can make some dietary modifications, take fish oil, testosterone, estrogen, these things can modify the HDL, but the triglycerides, the greatest lever we have against that is one, the muscle training, hard, growing muscle, doing high intensity interval training, and then restricting the carbohydrates and eliminating the grains, contrary to what the the dietitians and the ADA has told us for so many years. Um, I also like to bring up this study done in the Eskimos. So we all know who Ansel keys was, but we don't know about this study. This was done at the same time. These were contemporaries, rabinowitch, 1936 they were studying the Arctic Eskimos. At the same time, Ancel Keys was studying Mediterranean folk, and out there in the Arctic, they found virtually zero atherosclerotic disease. They saw no retinopathy of the eyes in these Eskimos. And these were people who ate a primarily saturated fat diet. So they got the whale and they would eat the whale blubber. They would eat meats. They would eat a lot of fish too, of course. And they would actually ferment a lot of their fish under the snow, in the carcass of these sea lions. And they would eat this uska poo, which is this, like fermented meat medleys, there's a meat heavy diet, a lot of saturated fats. But these Eskimos, they would get the white man disease, and so they would get the diabetic retinopathy. They would get their cardiovascular disease, the diabetes when they started trading with the white settlers, and they got the sugars and the grains, and then suddenly they got all the modern diseases that we're so familiar with.

Speaker 1  52:01
Number eight, this will be a quick one. Uh, the myth that sunscreens are safe, especially these spray on ones that you see everywhere at Walmart and CVS. So these have a lot of chemicals that are banned in California and the European Union because they're carcinogens, or they they they they turn into carcinogens in the body or with time on the shelf. So benzophenone is a mutagen carcinogen and endocrine disruptor. And us here in anti aging medicine, we prescribe hormones transdermally, and we think, of course, it goes into the system, into the bloodstream, to cause an effect in the human body, but the general population, and many dermatologists, they don't understand this simple concept that if you spray a chemical onto the skin, it goes into the body and to cause an effect. Now for us in hormone replacement therapy, it's a beneficial effect, but when you spray a benzophenone onto the skin, and you this becomes an endocrine disruptor, a carcinogen, so it's banned in many places in the in the world, but you'll still find this at Walmart and CBS, and you'll see people spraying it on themselves on the beach here in Florida all the time.

Bill Clearfield  53:16
What do you recommend? Instead?

Speaker 1  53:17
I wear a hat and long clothing.

Speaker 2  53:23
That's what I uh, good ones would be a zinc base, zinc oxide, or that pretty straight up. And again, you're right. The component should be checked in behind, behind the label. So zinc oxide is one of the kind of purest ones out there. Yeah,

Speaker 1  53:38
you still check the labels. I once had an allergic reaction to one of my face blew up for like half a year, so I got a bad taste in my mouth after that, and I just wear a hat.

Speaker 7  53:47
Quick question, and we can table it. I'm Dr Maxim. I'm in Las Vegas, but vitamin D, I've seen levels less than 40 lead to cancer. I'm assuming skin, and obviously the sun is protective, not harmful, especially, and not excess. Would the group here? Can can, you know, agree with all that? Because obviously it's hard to to learn what we don't know. That's it.

Speaker 1  54:17
Yeah, I like, we all like to see the vitamin D in the upper third of the reference range, so upwards of 70 to 100 is Clearfield will tell us all. And to some folks, they just can't get that level just with sun exposure. Maybe they have darker skin, or maybe they have fair skin, and they they burn in the sunlight. Although I don't burn anymore. Ever since, you know, I fixed my diet, I don't drink alcohol. I hydrate well enough. I haven't burned my skin ever since I stopped using sunscreen. So I would burn my skin all the time as a tennis player in Florida, back when I was younger, my diet wasn't as good, but now that I eat an ancestral diet, I take vitamins, I hydrate well. I literally haven't burned in years since doing that, and I don't use sunscreen anymore, and if I've adapted a little bit of a tan on my skin, and I can maintain natural levels between 60 and 70 just without supplementation. But I do supplement now to maintain them around 100 so,

Bill Clearfield  55:12
so, so can we connect the dots that buying eating meat from Walmart will protect against sun, sunburn, then, yeah,

Speaker 1  55:23
you can buy bison, lamb, grass fed beef from Walmart. You can, right,

Unknown Speaker  55:27
stay hydrated,

Speaker 4  55:28
obviously, too. Yeah, your dry skin is is going to is going to burn? I, as you know, I'm, I'm in Vegas as well. I take tons of vitamin D, keep hydrated. I get out in the sun and I don't use sunscreen.

Speaker 1  55:45
Yeah, the Nevada desert is another level. I mean, it's so hot out there, I would wear a hat, maybe even an umbrella. Yeah? Dr

Speaker 2  55:53
Jonathan's question, the integrative dermatology symposium actually had this consensus about, it's actually not worth getting melanoma in relation to especially Caucasians and white bear skin people. That's why vitamin D supplementation is something that they have promoted, saying that sun exposure during the healthy sun rays, like for I think around eight to 10 to 11 would be the best for especially pale skin or Caucasians, and do not hesitate to take vitamin D, even though there's an eating out there. It's just the sun is healing. The sun is regenerative, but you just have to make sure that the risks outweighs the benefits,

Speaker 1  56:36
right? I think in moderation, I think you know, you don't want to get too much sunlight, same as you don't want to inject too much testosterone all the time. Same concept,

Bill Clearfield  56:45
I said, said it with that integrative dermatology conference, they said the inversely relate, inverse relationship between melanoma and vitamin D levels, I think was that, was that right? That I remember that correctly?

Speaker 2  56:59
Yeah. They're saying, yeah, they're saying that a lot of sun exposure people are getting more of the the melanoma conditions because they're hesitant to take vitamin D. The concept there was, Oh, they're taking something artificial. They're taking something of a supplement. They want it natural, but they're saying it's not worth it, just because these skin conditions are very deadly, and that's why there's nothing to be afraid of vitamin D supplementation.

Bill Clearfield  57:23
I also remember him saying, somebody asked him how much, and he said, well, 1000 units, 2000 units and and what was my answer? We sit down with the labs and figure out an exact amount of how much each patient is supposed to use, and they told us that we're the unscientific ones, right? Yeah, just use 1000 but at least, at least they mentioned vitamin vitamin D in a positive light. So we'll give them that. So

Speaker 1  57:50
the only melanoma I encountered in my practice was actually on someone's bottom of their foot, and I never saw the light of day.

Bill Clearfield  58:00
You would see a lot of it down where you are, right, not

Speaker 1  58:03
in my practice, maybe in dermatology, not me. Let's see. Ah, where's Dr armerling. We're trying to talk about salt. So Dr armerling is a nephrologist friend of mine, and so we're going to talk about how low salt diet interventions to reduce blood pressure and prevent cardiovascular mortality are misguided, and that's a hot take, because still, in all internal medicine clinics around the world, they're told to lower salt intake, but according to some recent studies, lowering salt intake below six grams today is associated with increasing mortality. So they looked at 6000 patients about 90 different trials, and the author's conclusion is that in white participants, sodium reduction, in accordance with public recommendations, resulted in a mean arterial pressure decrease of about 0.4 millimeters of mercury. So that's pretty insignificant. Maybe about moving the needle about four. So there's very weak evidence to suggest you should be using this in patients. And we're going to go on a little bit more about this. It's perhaps not salt that's driving the hypertension, but more about insulin resistance, eating junk food, grains and so forth.

Bill Clearfield  59:26
You mean the two gram sodium diet, we had to prescribe it for high blood pressure people back in the 80s, is no good,

Speaker 1  59:31
no good. And this is a really hot take by Dr Richard amberling, and I like what he said here. Says that arteries stiffen as age, and it takes more pressure from the cuff to compress the arteries. So he thinks that a lot of elderly hypertension is a pseudo hypertension that we're getting in the office. And these people really don't have true hypertension. The really way to know this, you need to do intra arterial blood pressure. They do this in the ICU. Maybe you could do a reliable testing with 24 ambulatory or a two week home log. If they're really high, maybe you treat it. But he says a lot of these will are because of calcification in the arteries, so their arteries get harder, so you just need to press harder and harder on the cuff to get the reading. That was quite the insight for me and looking at a lot of these folks from a different perspective, he says the blood pressure is determined by vascular tone, ionotrope, blood volume that determines the BP, true causes of hypertension, liver failure, kidney failure, but hyperinsulinemia is probably the number one reason we see high blood pressure. These people are metabolically unhealthy, and we need to fix the metabolic syndrome. Fix the metabolic syndrome. Dr amberling, are you there? Is that about

Speaker 5  1:00:45
right? Yeah, that's right, yes. I mean limiting salt intake is just anti physiologic. I mean the body exists to maintain blood volume, which means to maintain a constant total body sodium, and that's what the kidney does, and does it par excellence. And as long as you have normal kidney function, it's virtually impossible to overdose on on salt, on sodium, because any excess is readily excreted. And so this whole idea that lowering salt intake is is mandatory in hypertension. It's absolutely wrong. Most of the hypertensive patients that I've seen are, in fact, salt depleted or volume depleted. You know, you can check volume status fairly easy, easily. Clinically, looking at the bedside, they can get the jugular venous pressure, etc. And very few hypertensives in my practice were volume overloaded. In fact, most are depleted. And this whole idea that taking salt out of food and making everything low salt and that's going to somehow help the public health is absolutely absurd. It's going to make people ill, because once you lower your blood volume through salt restriction, you trigger these very powerful counter regulatory hormonal systems, the sympathetic nervous system, you know, adrenaline, noradrenaline and the angiotensin axis get turned on, and they're turned on continuously. And neither of these systems should be activated continuously. These are made for intermittent use only. And I, you know, I think that this is one of the causes of hypertension, frankly.

Speaker 7  1:02:36
So. So with all that said, I think there's a huge difference between mineral salt and chemical salt, and so I've been trying to get my patients to adapt and get to mineral salt, limit their sugar and ensure that they're hydrated when their pressures are spiking, because that's the compensatory mechanism that you just mentioned. Right? So, right. I'm glad to feel other people because that that is completely contrary to what the people teach us in med school, and I'm only 12 years removed from that. I

Speaker 5  1:03:12
know it's ridiculous, and, you know, it's interesting. You go to a hotel and you, you know, get their buffet breakfast with the powdered eggs and all this stuff. And you ask, you look at the salt package, because you think, well, at least let me get some salt in this meal. You read the label on the salt package, you know what's in it, dextrose, sugar. I mean, I know they put sugar in everything, but to put it in salt, you gotta be kidding me. Wow, they do.

Speaker 1  1:03:47
I didn't know that. I never read the ingredients. I don't eat the hotel buffet either.

Speaker 2  1:03:51
Actually, it's not even sorry to interrupt the I went to Dollar General looking for salt, and there's, there was three different brands, all of them had sugar in

Unknown Speaker  1:04:01
them. Well, that's

Unknown Speaker  1:04:04
amazing. I didn't know that. That's crazy.

Speaker 3  1:04:06
Yeah, you can't get it without your little salt, with your sugar, a little sugar with your salt,

Speaker 5  1:04:11
it's crazy. Next you're going to tell me they're adding canola oil too. I mean, this is

Unknown Speaker  1:04:18
that they are

Speaker 1  1:04:21
number 10. Okay, now this is on fiber, and I'm not necessarily against fiber. A frame pushes the fiber pretty heavily. But we're going to talk about, you know, you go to gi you go to internal medicine, and they're going to recommend fiber for all these various conditions. And we're going to show here that it's not really based on much good science at all. So specifically, constipation is recommended all the increase your fiber, bulking, bulking. That's what I was taught in PA school. But this actually makes it worse for people. It can dry them out. It can worsen the constipation. A better approach for constipation would be magnesium. Give them magnesium glycinate to bowel movement. This is a much better way. I mean, it's, you know, healed their their eating disorder. I mean, what are they eating? The kids are eating these Cheez Its and Doritos, and then they're going to be constipated. That's, that's what I deal with in practice.

Speaker 5  1:05:14
Stefan, you know what the best remedy for constipation is?

Speaker 1  1:05:18
What is it? Salt. Salt, yeah, yeah, magnesium, too. The colon,

Speaker 5  1:05:24
the main, the main job of the colon is to extract salt and water from stool. If you are salt depleted, it's going to extract every last bit. And stools get hard and mobility goes down. So the best way to remedy constipation is to just markedly increase the salt intake.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:49
We'll try that as well. How much salt?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:54
Five to 10 grams a day.

Benoit Tano  1:05:59
Stefan, I give them high dose vitamin C and the magnesium citrate. That works perfectly well. Yes,

Speaker 5  1:06:09
magnesium trade is, you know, we'll not Knock the crap out of Superman, as they say,

Speaker 1  1:06:15
yeah, yeah. I parents asked me how much I say you dose it to bowel movement. They will have a bowel movement at some point. The other one is they give more fiber to these poor patients with IBS, and this is just going to make them so much worse. But this is done every day in primary care across the US, and these patients need a comprehensive gut approach. They need microbiome assessment. They need to look at their diet, and they may need a bit of psych therapy too. I use peptides a lot, BPC, KPV. I use the biocide and protocol a lot. It heals these patients, and we never even really touch fiber. Sure, I like a little bit of sauerkraut or kimchi, don't get me wrong, but we're not going to load these patients up with fiber. As a tight Laura satide, who's using that,

Speaker 2  1:07:07
that's a peptide. Oh, that's also another gi peptide that you can highlight in there.

Speaker 1  1:07:13
Great one. That's, that's the one that helps, that's from the E coli, right? Is that the one that's made from the bacteria that helps heal gluten sensitivity or anything a different one.

Speaker 2  1:07:21
I think that's something else. Yeah, this is something else. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:07:25
So Stefan in, in the carnivore community that I'm part of, part of online mostly, but I also know Sean Baker. Do you know him? Doctor? Yeah, yes. They have many cases and case reports and anecdotes of complete reversal of inflammatory bowel disease, both Crohn's and Ulcerative Colitis on a carnivore diet.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:49
Yes,

Speaker 5  1:07:52
yes, they do. Other words, get rid of the fiber entirely. Yeah, you

Speaker 1  1:07:56
get rid of the fiber. Um, here's more on IBS. You want

Bill Clearfield  1:08:03
the ancient Chinese? Yes, they taught us an acupuncture school, eight ounces of plain whole milk yogurt and add nine raisins, not eight, not 10. It has to be nine. You have to count them out. And I don't know what the reason is,

Speaker 3  1:08:23
but I tried it. I tried it. Thanks for that suggestion. But that that, that that alone ancient Chinese is not not enough. Sometimes when the for example, with epilepsy, there's a tendency for the gut to get very dehydrated and or making a lot of stool and things. And it's it's complicated to correct certain things, which has to do with physiological like stress, things that are blocking the digestion, or with when there's a chronic illness, other illnesses involved that that it's, it's difficult to pull just the raisins out of the formula and just make one thing, because it's, it's a involving emotions and involving trauma and other things that can't just be addressed by taking, um, supplements or hormones or anything, you know, has to look, look at, look at the total, I think the the total total situation, for example, my son with psychogenic seizure. So the whole thing, the gut and the whole issue, has to also do with with feeling good emotionally. So I just wanted to throw in my throw in that, because I'm might be interesting

Bill Clearfield  1:09:49
what it was worth anyway. So thank you.

Speaker 1  1:09:52
You're good, yeah. So this one will really piss off your gastroenterologist if you tell them that fiber might cause diverticulosis. So this is, you know, is conventionally thought that more fiber less diverticulitis? Well, here's a study in Asia. They looked at a lot of Asian population that eats a lot of fiber. They actually had a lot of diverticulosis, even in teenage years. And the thought was that this massive gaseous buildup, high dietary fiber intake, causes the diverticular disease, at least over there in Asia, here in the US, might be a different reason, because typically, it's thought that the American population doesn't eat that much fiber, but still gets diverticulosis disease. And then also, when I was taught in PA school, hemorrhoids, fishers got to give them fiber. Well, this may also, obviously, from a mechanistic standpoint, it might cause more stress passing hard stools with bulking and worsen the hemorrhoids and the fissures. So it also makes no sense to do that just thinking of that. We just stopped to think of it critically for a moment, rather than just following the algorithms. But you can't do that. You just have to get the degree you can't question these things. And then here fiber and the colorectal cancer, in summary, is a strong replication cannot be made for a protective effect of dietary fiber against colorectal polyp or cancer. But despite this, is still recommended to increase fiber to protect against colon cancer, but this is built on very poor epidemiological study, so we still really don't know how to prevent colon cancer. Anybody have any ideas treat, prevent? I think a balanced diet, some good fermented foods. I think fermenting fiber is much better than eating like a bulking agent, sauerkraut, kimchi or pickles. You can ferment anything. It's very easy to learn how to ferment foods. You can put it in your fridge and you suddenly will have great fermented whatever. Turnip, carrots,

Bill Clearfield  1:11:57
one of the one, yeah, one of the positives of the Women's Health Initiative in 2002 it showed that the equine estrogen protects against colon cancer, so less incident.

Speaker 1  1:12:11
Hormones, of course, hormones prevent all cancers and prevents all deaths. So and

Bill Clearfield  1:12:16
somebody in the chat Dr Sabata writes aspirin, Olympic

Unknown Speaker  1:12:22
more than Stefan, what

Unknown Speaker  1:12:24
are your thoughts on glutamine?

Speaker 1  1:12:25
Glutamine? We use the in our gut protocols for healing the inflammation, but for how long?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:33
How long are you using it for us? Or

Unknown Speaker  1:12:34
one month?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:36
High Limit?

Speaker 1  1:12:37
Yeah, we do one month protocol of peptides, biocide and in glutamine, it usually heals people. One month, I have a presentation I'll give you guys one day on that

Speaker 3  1:12:47
funny thing. Funny thing in Lower Austria, Burgenland robotic was used artificial intelligent, and they were better able to pinpoint the risk of colon cancer by a robot. So an artificial intelligence of analyzing the the results. And there's a push for artificial intelligence in in diagnostic, in such a thing. And someone like to switch to some, I'm switched to switching the subject, but to to switch to how it's in Switzerland. And Dr Jens Worster, he's suggesting prophylactic use of homeopathic remedies such as in Q potency, like can over the long run, starting in childhood, help the avoid the risk of developing cancer using maybe a constitutional remedy, or if they determine from the patient and giving it he's giving it in Q potencies in his in his clinic, and that he then can it says, If it starts in the childhood, that's a better way To avoid the risk later is to start earlier. Hmm. Hmm,

Speaker 1  1:14:03
very good. Some interesting key points here. I like this. One was interesting is that a high fiber diet has been also been shown to be associated with extensively long colons and higher incidence of mega colon and volvulus, something you learn about in emergency medicine. And then this one also kind of interesting, is that one common erroneous belief is that moisture content of stool is increased when fiber intake is increased, but actually, the moisture content actually remains at 70 to 75% and does not change when more fiber is consumed. And then this was probably my favorite, the incidence of diverticulosis and complications of diverticular disease has been increasing in the West despite increasing dietary fiber intake, and then it's also prevalent in the East, where they have high fiber intake, and it's likely due to a massive gaseous buildup associated with the high fiber intakes getting close to the end here number 1112, medical myths. This one, sore throat require antibiotics. I mean, this is another common Urgent Care complaint that go in there expecting the antibiotic because the throat hurts. But again, appropriate antibiotics may reduce the duration illness by approximately one day, and this is patients with positive group A Beta hemolytic streptococcus. You give them the penicillin, as you were taught in school, you can shorten the duration of illness by approximately one day. So why is it given so much? Again, cya medicine probably for the most part, because of the fear of the complications. But you know, we can use the center criteria and apply that to a lot of patients and prevent some antibiotic misuse. So rheumatic fever is the most common non separative complication of Group A Beta hemologococcus. However, the incidence of rheumatic fever is low in the US and other high income countries. Antibiotics may decrease the incidence of complications like peritoneal abscess. However, the benefit of the antibiotics might be more if you actually see the peritoneal abscess, which makes obvious sense. Yes, we talked about my experience in urgent cares, they reinforce this sort of pathological prescribing behavior. So glad I don't work there anymore. I can, you know, I was told by this one doc who ran this urgent care when I didn't prescribe an antibiotic, and we got some bad feedback from it. He sat me down. It's like, one day you run your own practice and you'll understand business. And now I run my practice. I don't do this. I don't treat patients just to make the customer happy. I do what's right for them. So and patients don't appreciate when you explain this to them, they'll appreciate it like, listen, we got all these other remedies, and I'm going to show you those remedies in a second, how you can treat strep throat without an antibiotic. And so other thing here I noticed was kind of interesting, is that in developing countries like Egypt, they have actually even more antibiotic prescription than us. Here, the rates were perhaps, I think I saw 87 or even 90% where was that? I think it was here. Yeah, high antibiotic rates in developing countries. And then if you go down to Guatemala and Mexico, you can get these antibiotics over the counter. So I can't even fathom how many antibiotics are taken in the South America, Central America, where you can walk in, you can pick up a separate over the counter and take it. So I don't know if anyone has experience working down there or seeing these sort of patients, but they don't have urgent cares there. They just have open

Bill Clearfield  1:17:46
market pharmacies, yeah, almost free Pharmacia. So, yeah, I live down in on the border, the Mexican border during the anthrax scare, you can, you had to pay so I was in Edinburgh, University of Texas. Pan Am. It's got different name. Now you go to the to the to the border, there's a bridge. That time you paid a quarter, you walked across. And there was a these huge plazas there. And there were 15, at least 15 in four, four block area, almost free pharmacies. And you could walk in and they'd have Cipro right from bear. At least. It said it was, you know, one encounter, $12.20 of them for $12.95 and no prescription needed. Yeah, I called a friend of mine back home, you know, back in Pennsylvania, I asked him how much 20 Cipro were. And at that time, it was $200 cash price at a doctor's you know, and a doctor's visit too. So, yeah, you could walk in, you can walk in there, and you can also get your teeth pulled, you know, pretty inexpensively too. There's a lot of dentists down there,

Speaker 1  1:18:58
yeah. So for our conventional friends, you can tell them, maybe just use a little corticosteroid in the throat. You can you can gargle this. You can use little Dex method and some liquid gargle. And that might even help more than the antibiotic. You can avoid the antibiotic prescription. But I have better tricks up my sleeve here. So things that I like, and Dr Peter McCullough like is little bit of iodine. So you can put this, you know, eight drops, lugos, iodine, in some salt water and honey. You can, you can gargle this. I like the the biocyn and the quick silver throat sprays. They're great. Works really well for any sort of irritation in the back of the throat. The CO fix, proven iodine spray in the back of the throat. Also you can spray it up the nose. Can treat any sort of virus particles you have with the nose. And then I also like the neti pot rinse. You can rinse that through the sinuses for any sort of mucus plugging. Again. You can add the if you can get the biocide and liquid, you can add like five drops into the neti pot rinse that through the sinuses, or little bit of iodine in your saline solution, and rinse that as well. So we just clear out the passages of the inflammation of the viruses, of the bacterial particles, and it's pretty sterilizing. That's what iodine is. It'll kill it. So you can give this to your patients, tell them to use that instead of antibiotic, and we use this extensively at our practice, and our rates of antibiotic prescription are very, very low. Last but not least is the taniflu fiasco. This is a great article. You need to share it with your conventional friends, but written by Gupta Meenu in 2015 it's actually one that I learned about back in school, surprisingly, and it was actually so if we, if we had really understood this study, and everybody in conventional medicine understood the study, we would have never fallen for the trap of the COVID pandemic, the paxlovid, the the The vaccines, because the same step wise, fiasco happened back in the h1, n1, influenza, where you had this big scare, big media scare, about this, this, this, this, this flu. And then there was a huge rush towards develop this, this thing called Tamiflu. And then it was stockpiled and bought like billions of dollars of this product was bought by government organizations across the world, and they hoarded this because they thought it was this big, big pandemic was going to wipe out the planet, and we had this great medicine that was going to treat it, but the studies were brushed. The studies were absolute crap. We learned that it maybe reduces the symptom duration by 16 hours. It gives neuro psychiatric problems to children. It doesn't reduce hospitalization, it doesn't reduce death. This is the exact same thing we saw for the COVID vaccine and Paxton, no reduction in hospitalization, no reduction in death. I mean, no reduction even in really a significant duration of illness symptoms. But it was approved by the European Medical Association. The American USDA, whole planet approved this thing, and it's a junk medicine that is still prescribed to this

Speaker 5  1:22:15
day. Hey, Stephan, I have some more detail about that story, which is fascinating, and I'm really impressed that you brought it up, because it's crucial, and you're so right, if we had paid attention to the story, we would never have been taken in by by COVID and that whole scam. Well, the Cochrane group was very skeptical about the drug, because they, you know, from what they saw, it just did not look very effective. So they asked Roche for the patient level data, right for the case reports and all the all the source data. And Roche refused to hand it over. So they took them to court, along with the the some of the editors of the British Medical Journal, including Peter Doshi, who was one of the major critics of the COVID vaccines. And it took three years and millions of dollars in legal fees to get to get them to release it, and when they did, yeah, it turned out to be a piece of junk that didn't work, and it was highly toxic. So that's that's the pharma Mo, and that's why we just simply cannot trust them, and we never should have trusted them with the shots or the pharmacy. You know, molnupiravir and paxlovid. They're awful drugs, right?

Speaker 1  1:23:37
Of course, not enough people learn their history, and we have this medical history here, and we should have seen this coming. I mean, our conventional colleagues should have, at least they should have known this,

Speaker 5  1:23:48
and this is why Pfizer didn't want to release their source data for 75 years, right? And Aaron series lawsuit forced them to release it, and now you can read about all these side effects they covered up in Naomi Wolf's compilation called the Pfizer papers.

Speaker 1  1:24:09
Yeah, I like this. It's called judgment based medicine, rather than evidence based medicine. That's something we can use to convince our colleagues. What about this stuff? Judgment based? Well, you tell them their judgment based, they're like, Oh no, I'm evidence based. No, no, no. So, yeah, yeah, and it's still prescribed now all the time, but it doesn't even help. For basic stuff, your duration of symptoms are essentially the same. And

Speaker 5  1:24:37
that's all. That's a total scam. It's a total scam.

Speaker 1  1:24:41
Yep, total scam. That was my 12 medical myths for 12 days of Christmas. We can put it on the calendar. You left out iodine? Well, iodine is a whole lecture. I can do two hours on iodine. I can't open up that rabbit hole.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:57
Well, did you give us? Did you give us the the three minute cliff note version? Okay,

Speaker 1  1:25:01
92nd elevator pitch on iodine is we've tested about 150 patients here at the practice. Every single patient has been deficient iodine in serum random and 24 hour urine collections, we supplement patients very safely with iodine and selenium, and we do iodine doses at 1225, 50 IO patients at 300 milligrams of iodine. We do it safely. We give them about 400 micrograms of selenium a day to buffer the thyroid peroxidase. We don't see any problems. Patients, they feel better. Their arthritis improves. We treat toenail fungus, their infection rates go down. Their thyroid levels improves. We detox the high s drone so they have better estrogen metabolism. They improve their IQ, they get smarter. Their children grow faster. Increases IGF, one and growth hormone, and it detoxes the toxic halides the fluoride and the bromide, which we're all exposed to. It's in the tap water. It's coming out of the shower. It's in the foods you eat. It's in those Brazil nuts that everyone tells you to eat for the Selenium, it's actually full of bromine. So take iodine, take selenium, take B vitamins. Everyone's deficient iodine, and you can, you can mitigate the supposed conventional sphere of iodine with taking B vitamins and selenium

Bill Clearfield  1:26:20
any particular type liquid pills,

Speaker 1  1:26:25
yeah, I I prefer the pill. I take 12 milligram tablet every day. You can take Lugo solution. It just tastes a little like pool water once you get above six milligrams.

Speaker 2  1:26:38
So two jumps that we learned from Doctor Brownstein, that when you use iodine, you actually lower the doses of your thyroid medication. So his his lesson there is, whenever you're using thyroid medications, your needs always have iodine because you're actually overworking that thyroid gland. And I think this one kind of hit, hit real well with Dr Bill, iodine can be used in Hashimotos. So he actually has a lot in a big, huge population that he's using that on, and he sees that pretty effective. That's

Bill Clearfield  1:27:09
that, that's that was the next question, because Doctor halasa, you know, insists that iodine is no good for Hashimotos. No. And do I have that wrong? Or is it for Graves disease? No,

Speaker 1  1:27:22
I don't think he's worried about that too much. He hasn't brought that up to me. Has he brought that

Unknown Speaker  1:27:26
up to you? I seem

Bill Clearfield  1:27:27
to remember it somewhere along the line. You give them selenium,

Speaker 1  1:27:30
400 microns again, so 200 in the morning, 200 in the evening, with the B vitamins. If they have bad autoimmune give them the LDN. Give them vitamin D, and it should improve even red light therapy exposure to the thyroid.

Speaker 6  1:27:45
David Brown has salt if they're having any trouble with the iodine too.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:49
More salt.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:51
Here we go.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:51
Where's Dr Armen, more salt for Hashimotos. There

Unknown Speaker  1:27:54
you go. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:00
okay. In the in the chat, we have the CME credits. If you're interested, there's the link there. I have it on the So the link is always the same, that it's just the last four, four numbers for whichever lecture it is. Oh, yeah, I have, I'll have it in the the email every week. One of these days, I'll get it on the website too, that we have about 15 lectures that we've had to prove for CME credits, you get for each one two, ama category one, CME credits, it's $30 and you get a certificate right away. And so it's a pretty good deal, especially if you need credits. It's now the end of the year, and, you know, in in Nevada, you need 30, what do you what do we need? 35 credits, or something like that, at least the DOS do so. So it's an easy way to do it. You can get, you can get 30 credits, right, right? You know, in in short order there. So I'm glad to be able to offer that. And Stefan, great as always. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:09
there's one good, good point.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:11
Make a make a plan. Those of us are going to be at a forum next week. We, you know, we should. This is our kind of our meetup. So make a plan to meet, and maybe, you know, have dinner and, you know, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:29:25
we gotta, we gotta herd cats. You know, as I said, you know, getting functional medicine doctors to all agree and meet someplace is more difficult than herding cats. I tell you what.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:34
Well, that's why we have doctors. Dr Halas that he's, he's good at

Unknown Speaker  1:29:41
that. Hey, pour ins and gay. Vegas.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:43
In Vegas, yeah, it's the 11th. No, the 12th to the 15th, next, the next weekend at the Venetian.

Speaker 7  1:29:54
That's at the Venetian. Okay, so, Doctor Quinn,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:58
I expect you to be there. And Dr ammerling, thank you for being with us tonight. It was a pleasure having you. Please come again.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:06
Thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:08
You know we, we need we've been here every Tuesday since October of 2020, except for one. It was a fourth of July, and we got two coming up, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, and I'm taking off. So if anybody wants to want to take the bull by the horns and have a have a meeting, fine, but I'm going to take two weeks off. Next week. We had a little, a little issue with a little little scheduling issue, so we were supposed to have al Sanchez for poly MVA. We'll, we'll have him next, next in January. I think Right, right. Doctor Nario, yeah, I

Speaker 2  1:30:49
think 28 I have to confirm that with them still, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:52
Okay, next week we have a doctor Messina with soy science, right? Is that? Is that?

Speaker 2  1:30:59
Yeah. So all your soy questions. Throw it out there to him. He's the soy expert.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:05
Okay, and do you have any any questions in the in the email?

Speaker 2  1:31:10
Yeah, so some for Stefaan here. So there's a lot of, of course, controversy about testosterone. We probably know about this testosterone with prostate cancer? That's a common question you always get,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:25
always, yeah, and what are

Unknown Speaker  1:31:29
your thoughts on that?

Speaker 1  1:31:33
I mean, if they have active prostate cancer, and if they're of a certain age where it wouldn't make a difference, you give them testosterone.

Speaker 2  1:31:41
Yes, it's more like, it's better, I think, to give testosterone without the cancer, because it will prevent you from having prostate cancer. So that's kind of like the gist of that. And here's a question, a severe BPH, so that's not cancer. Would you still give testosterone, or considered testosterone? In that situation,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:59
they'll probably need finasteride. So you're

Unknown Speaker  1:32:03
going to give finasteride along with testosterone. So we're saying, Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:06
yep. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:32:07
do test ride finasteride, one or the other. Just run

Speaker 2  1:32:12
yes for the DHT blogger, yep. How soon will you start somebody who had just had a DVT or a heart attack, and start testosterone on them?

Speaker 1  1:32:28
Well, they don't need to stop and they give them estrogen. It helps promote circulation.

Speaker 2  1:32:38
Okay? I think the question there is the when somebody had a heart attack and you want to consider testosterone, do you start immediately? Or you want to evaluate them through cardiology first before or get clearance?

Speaker 1  1:32:53
No, cardiology wouldn't understand it. I mean, they can continue their hormones. There's no problem. And if they were doing super huge bodybuilder doses, you need to have a come to Jesus meeting with

Unknown Speaker  1:33:06
them. What are your favorite saturated fat sources?

Speaker 1  1:33:13
I have been having stews since it's cold in Florida now, I've been doing beef and bone broth stews on a daily basis. So most of my fats are from grass fed beef, grass fed butter, unpasteurized milk, unpasteurized butter, Sun pasteurized yogurt, so always unpasteurized, because when you pasteurize, and I can give a whole lecture on this, it increases the trans fats in the milks, which is cardiotoxic.

Speaker 2  1:33:38
Okay, yeah, that's it. Those are my questions on the email.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:44
Okay, someone have you screen? Here is my screen visible at all? Yes, okay, this was from, from the lecture that I gave on testosterone controversies, how to utilize testosterone with with cancer so radical prostatectomy, when the PSA is undetectable, usually about three months post op. So you want the PSA, they get the PSA to be 0.1, for X ray therapy, or breaking therapy, when the PSA again is low three months post op. Active Surveillance is, you know, they're just watching it. Expect the PSA to rise, but you can do that immediately post op radiation or metastasis, with or without testosterone therapy. You can do that pretty much immediately also, and if you're going to use it with metastatic cancer, those of you who heard that lecture, you know, I talked about Teddy. That was my father. He had a PSA of 46 and we gave him testosterone. And you know, he actually did quite well with it. He had a PSA of 46 and a test total testosterone of 46 so this was him, and this was a good day. This was him on a good day. And then we gave him a eight weeks of high dose testosterone cypionate, and I made it every two weeks I talked to, I got this protocol from Dr Rosenberg, you know, the oncologist and integrative oncologist in Florida. And then we used four weeks of any androgen. And four weeks later, here he is in a restaurant. This is, these are my grandkids. These are his great grandkids. And he is sitting up and, you know, he went from this to this, okay, so, you know, and I am again, you know, 400 milligrams every two weeks. It was like starting over again. So I would probably alter it a little bit differently, but that that this is kind of real life work. So, okay, is there another question? Oh,

Speaker 2  1:35:51
there's one about the methicone, if you're using that on for guests from the recently me, no for, I think Stefan. This is for Stefan's lecture. Theresa is asking if you could, if you recommend symmetical and for gas.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:07
Never, never heard of that one.

Speaker 2  1:36:12
Oh, yeah. So it's, it's like, it's an over the counter. Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  1:36:15
think it's gas. X, yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:19
Okay, here, here's that. Remember I earlier, when I was was quoting incidents of heart attack, strokes and blood clots with here's the general populate. This is what I quoted. I was pretty good off the top of my head. Here's the general population. Here's the testosterone induced and this is polycythemia Vera. So you know to read your knee direct reaction is that it's polycythemia Vera when the testosterone levels go or the hematocrits go to 52 when you're treating them with testosterone. And it's not okay, polycythemia Vera is a blood tumor. It is and testosterone therapy is erythrocytosis. Polycymia is, is a genetic defect. 97% of these patients have genetic mutations in these two genes. The EP is low in polycythemia Vera blood viscosity is elevated in red cells, white cells and platelets, and then you get your increased risks, erythrocytosis. This is what happens with testosterone. The EPA is EPO is high. The red only the red blood cells are become elevated, and there's no genetic mutations. And so these are the this is the compilation of these studies here. So that's what I was quoting. Yeah, that's really good.

Speaker 5  1:37:39
I had a patient who was being treated for polycythemia Vera for years with hydroxyurea and other agents, and he was also on a fairly significant dose of testosterone. I said, you know, are you sure you've got polycythemia Vera? So I sent him to a hematology, hematology friend of mine, who did the genetic testing and said, No, you don't have polycythemia Vera. You know, I think that that's, frankly, malpractice.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:09
That's crazy. That's bad.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:13
So, so they have high white cells and high platelets, or

Speaker 5  1:38:16
no, it's just No, you're a red cell, alright? So

Bill Clearfield  1:38:20
this, so this, so the elevation from the red cells was from the testosterone he was getting. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, right. So

Speaker 2  1:38:29
that's also the same answer for, I guess, the one of the common questions of, why does it increase your hemoglobin, hematocrit, because of the E field that's getting produced. And another common question would be, sleep apnea, why you should definitely fix that when you're on testosterone therapy, because of the risk of polycythemia. I mean, I'm sorry, cytosis, plus also, if you don't have, I guess, unfixed sleep apnea, it can also increase your H and H at the same time.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:00
There's, there's a peptide called hepcidin, which is suppressed with testosterone. And hepcidin suppression is what induces erythrocytosis in a kidney.

Speaker 1  1:39:12
Okay, other common causes I've identified is undiagnosed sleep apnea. When you put them on test, their red blood cells will go up so high, and then also dehydration, they go in for the blood test dehydrated, and it will cause a pseudo erythrocytosis.

Speaker 5  1:39:30
Well, yeah, that's right, that's just chemo concentration. And the truth is, to really make a diagnosis of polyisafemia Vera or polycythemia in general, you need to do a red cell mass study, which is done with radio labeled RBCs, and that's almost never done. And so there's a lot of misdiagnosis of not only polycythemia, but anemia. You know, anemia can be caused by volume expansion, and we saw that in dialysis patients all the time. And in fact, one of the biggest scams that I wrote about this is the prescribing of erythropoietin to patients who have a mildly decreased hematocrit but no change in their red cell mass. I mean, they're just volume expanded because they have, they have kidney failure, right? So they're not really anemic, but yet, they all get Erythropoietin, which, which has toxic side effects. You know, they actually died sooner with erythropoietin. Oh, good.

Speaker 2  1:40:43
I think Lance Armstrong liked that one, right? Yeah, he loved that one.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:51
Okay, there's a question about high, high dose iodine, 12 milligrams, causing acne,

Speaker 1  1:40:56
yeah. So I've had one girl with that, and I'm trying to figure it out. This is a peculiar case, actually, for you. Dr Clearfield, she's 18 years old. Irregular menstrual cycle, she will go she'll bleed for 18 to 21 days. She has poor sleep. She doesn't feel well. I measured her hormones on day 21 best guess. I mean, she had zero progesterone and her estradiol was about 30 on LCMS testing. What's going on here? This girl is struggling a lot. So what are your thoughts? And iodine caused her to have acne? It was weird.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:37
Well, what happens downstream from the from the iodine. You know, what was her thyroid function and good?

Speaker 1  1:41:47
Testosterone, good. You know, 40s total free of 3.2 I mean, her thyroid was great, three, 3.5 t3, free t4, was good. No thyroid antibodies,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:03
okay, iron levels,

Speaker 1  1:42:05
her iron levels. They weren't anemic, and she she was her hemoglobin wasn't that bad. It was like 12.2 not great, but not terrible,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:16
okay, Carol, and this is probably up your alley, she obviously needs a high dose progesterone. Probably cycled, right?

Speaker 6  1:42:26
Yeah, probably. I have a paper from Chris master John about treating acne with b5 this is kind of interesting, high doses of b5

Bill Clearfield  1:42:38
and so probably, you may want to want to do a high dose 10 day progesterone and then withdraw it to try and reset or cycle. The other alternative would be a D and C. So you probably would try to avoid that if you can,

Speaker 5  1:42:57
and then processed food. Stefan

Speaker 1  1:43:01
on point. I mean, she's one of the health syrup. No, no, no, she, she's on point with diet. I mean, ancestral diet, raw milk. I mean really, really good, healthy family. So no concerns there.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:14
Okay, food sensitivities, microbiome, any mold exposure? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:43:21
it's it's possible, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:43:27
Acne, oily skin, any blood sugar irregularities?

Speaker 1  1:43:32
No, either heart or low No, no. Her insulin is perfect. A 1c, is perfect. Glucose is perfect. She's very thin girl. Otherwise,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:40
okay, so I would probably try and cycle her with, you know, progesterone days 14 through 25 at night, see if that helps, you know, straighten things out. I like my acetal, Myo Chiro. Inositol is quite potent. It'll bring her testosterone down slightly, and will help regulate her cycle. Yeah. And, you know, off the top of my head, that's, I think that's at least a good start. Yes, I'd probably have to go study why, why iodine would do that. But so what's the effect of iodine on testosterone?

Speaker 1  1:44:14
So my hypothesis is a herxing reaction, so possibly killing us some level of a yeast or a fungus.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:22
Yeah, that's in the chat. There's a couple of folks wrote that detox reaction, possible? Candida

Unknown Speaker  1:44:29
detox?

Unknown Speaker  1:44:30
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:44:31
it'd be that too, detox on the halides,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:34
right? Biocidin and Saccharomyces, boulardii. That's

Speaker 1  1:44:39
an idea I don't I don't know. Did we do a bio side? I think we did it at one point for her. Yes, yeah. And we all right.

Speaker 2  1:44:49
Remember Brownstein when he was using, he was using high dose iodine, and it got some t shirt stains on a patient. Did you? Did you hear that from the presentation? Yes, yes, I did. It's pushing out the halides through the breast tissue when he was actually using these 30 milligram, 50 milligram dose of his iodine. So could this also be a pushing effect? It may be even androgens increasing it for a little bit, as these iodine receptors get stimulated.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:23
Okay? And then Dr ammerly mentions about finasteride. We've had many discussions about that and the danger, the dangers of finasteride. He writes that it causes severe loss of libido. There's also general symptoms which turn out if you, if you read between the lines, is testosterone and thyroid abnormalities, and then there's severe can cause severe psychological effects, also from a a reduction in the in the stimulation of allopregion alone. So and then Doctor Hartman here mentions he chooses effective dose. We use it like if we do use it, and I try not to finasteride one milligram, three type, three days a week, that's it. And do task deride, half milligram, two days a week, that's that's probably the max I would do. We've not really had seen too many, too many issues with that one, something called post finasteride syndrome, Facebook, something or other. And I get calls all the time from desperate people, because you can, you can get this with one pill in these young guys, and you know, they're, they're, they're pretty much a mess, testosterone with iodine and lycopene. I'm not sure that's a comment or a question. Doctor ADA bajo wrote that, wrote that. I'm not sure what that was reference to. Also nicotine increases erythrocytosis, and it can also combine that with dehydration and topical b5 gives beautiful, plump skin that that's the really, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:47:11
see, we learn a lot here. B5 is that. Which one is that paradox? No, no, that's niacinamide.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:18
No. Niacinamide is b3

Speaker 6  1:47:20
pantothenic acid, pantheric acid, okay,

Speaker 7  1:47:24
yeah, pyridoxine, B, b6, b6, I've never heard of b5, that's interesting.

Speaker 6  1:47:30
Yeah, the doses were high for acne, like gram doses.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:38
Yeah, we use the

Speaker 5  1:47:40
IS THAT A, b5, or B, s, b5, b5,

Speaker 6  1:47:47
b5, converts to coenzyme A, and A is needed for cholesterol production. So I'm wondering if it would be useful for the people I run into at really low cholesterol, like 132 and below, I don't know

Unknown Speaker  1:48:08
that's so funny. We're here trying to increase cholesterol.

Speaker 6  1:48:11
Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly the big

Speaker 7  1:48:14
Yeah. So statins are a complete racket, right? Yeah? Complete propaganda. This guy. Yeah, my next

Speaker 8  1:48:26
very nervous, very nervous from low cholesterol, but he's eating it like a virus or a parasite. So I see somebody with a cholesterol of 50, get very nervous, and I hunt for bugs. Okay, that's cool.

Speaker 5  1:48:43
The statin, the statin pushers are on record saying that there's no cholesterol too low, you know, you can take it down to zero. They're happy with that.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:51
Well, they

Unknown Speaker  1:48:52
say for LDL that,

Unknown Speaker  1:48:54
yeah, yeah. Totally insane.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:57
Totally insane. Probably leads to Alzheimer's.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:01
So and well, they had papers telling you that it didn't cause a cognitive issues. Also, because I brought, I brought that up at one of our live conferences, I think in 2018 or 2019 and Dr, what was his name? Dr Lulo, who was the head of the Western lipidology society, who's also a do got, we got into a big argument with me.

Speaker 7  1:49:26
I mean, who paid for those studies, right? But my question is about k2 because I was hoping that wasn't silly, along with d3 and magnesium, because I'm telling patients to do that, and then a supplement,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:44
I put that in the in the chat, you should not, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:47
I didn't get to that. I apologize. I kind of glossed over that one. Yeah, we use K we use d3 k2 so,

Speaker 7  1:49:55
yeah, so when it says another myth, correct, that's not in an application to k2 and d3 that's a good practice, and we should continue to do so.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:06
Yes, yes, right. Okay, cool. I

Speaker 7  1:50:10
just don't want to leave my patients astray, because they they trust me pretty well. I don't have a DPC practice yet, but that's my goal name,

Speaker 5  1:50:21
taking tons of Vitamin D is not a good idea without k2 on board. Yeah, yeah, vascular calcification, soft tissue calcification is real. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:34
need the k2

Bill Clearfield  1:50:38
nicotine increases, erythrocytosis, okay, we already meant that, so I got everything that's in the chat. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Loved it. Great. Great. As always, we'll have one our website. It's a o, s, r, d.org, and it's on in under webinars and ASO aos or d.org/webinars

Speaker 1  1:51:10
I'll put it on my YouTube channel too. It's called Iron, direct primary care, and

Bill Clearfield  1:51:14
it'll be on my on my YouTube channel,

Speaker 1  1:51:18
which maybe not YouTube. I'll get banned. I should put it on rumble, because we talked negatively about the vaccine here. I can't risk it. I already got two strikes on my YouTube channel, one more, and that's it for me. Curtains, no,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:33
I passed that long ago. You know, we had Dr McCullough on, you know, years ago. So we, we've been, we got, we got beat over to head with a long time ago. So, you know, we don't worry about it. So

Unknown Speaker  1:51:46
I do, I put this definitely on rumble now.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:48
So do you get any, any traffic there?

Speaker 1  1:51:53
No, not much. I mean, sometimes something goes, gets Rumble is like a it's a big opportunity, because there's not a lot of subject matter there, you know. So if you put something there, people type it in and might get some traction.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:07
Okay, okay, alright, I shut the videos off. We did get I'm going to cut out the last 30 seconds or so. Bad math.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:17
No, they get,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:20
okay, any, any somebody put out a link in for something here on YouTube. So

Unknown Speaker  1:52:26
Tony, I'll find out what that is. Oh,

Speaker 5  1:52:28
somebody was asking about a lecture on iodine, so I posted Stefan's previous lecture on iodine there.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:35
Oh, yeah, that's my lecture. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:38
yeah, you gave it one. I think you gave us one here, also, didn't you at one time? Big difference.

Speaker 1  1:52:44
I'll be giving you guys a new one soon. I want to review the study I'm going to publish on the iodine deficiency epidemic we've identified here. So I'm going to give you guys that that study soon.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:55
Okay, alright, so we're going to going to have us. The endocrinologists are gonna run us out of town on a rail even quicker with the iodine.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:06
So that's a good thing. That's a good thing. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:11
So I always tell my students, if you haven't, if you haven't been named on quack watch, you haven't, you haven't really lived so I know I've been on there twice. I know you

Unknown Speaker  1:53:23
last mean, that's so mean,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:25
I'm kind of proud of it, actually. So, you know, and is Kylie, you still here? Dr Smith still here, one of my students, she was scared. Okay, yeah, remember how scared, where, when you started, what am I? What are my colleagues going to say? What am I going to know they're going to ostracize, right? You remember that? Oh, I remember. How are you now?

Unknown Speaker  1:53:55
I'm not worried about it,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:59
right, right? You just, you kind of look at them and say, you know, we got it, we got it all together, right? I put

Speaker 6  1:54:05
my three fingers forward, and I put them into the sky and say, Screw the capital.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:11
There you go. There you go. You go. So, alright, so, so, yeah, okay, any, any questions about anything I've been thinking about maybe one, one Tuesday a month, or maybe another at another time, putting together some, some like course material, you know, some concentrated course material, you know, I don't know the, you know, hormone, hormone replacement, 101102, that kind of thing. Would anybody be interested in? Any of that? Even an overview of functional medicine, you know, you know what functional medicine labs, you know, and go through, you know, and go through in detail and give you, you know, all the labs and and sort of do our own mini sort of a forum or ammg, is that? Is that something you guys would be interested in? And if you would, is there, is there, is there interest in paying a minimal fee, not, not, I'm not, would never ask anybody for $2,500 you know, like, like they do, yeah, yeah, just enough to pay for the and, you know, you know, maybe the chat GPT subscription, it's 20 bucks a month or Something like that, something, you know, a minimal,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:41
yeah, sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:45
Alright. So I'll talk to Dr Quinn, see what, see if you know the and if Dr, dr Tano, I don't know if he's still here. He's, he's, he's, he's got a lot of course, material that he's put together. He's still on, well, he's, he's,

Benoit Tano  1:56:03
I'm Cynthia.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:08
So I know we've talked about this from time to time, but I think, you know, with the new year, we need to, I think, I think it's time, okay? One, it would give us some, a little bit of structure instead of, you know, okay, who can we get this week to talk? You know, we have a lot of material in our videos, and if I could get some, I don't have the time for it, so get somebody to to archive it. I mean, we have a lot of lot of good material.

Benoit Tano  1:56:39
I mean, Dr Bill, actually, I have it on beta pro mediverse archived, so people can have access to it if you want to, and I can show them how to get on

Speaker 1  1:56:53
it would actually be very simple. All you have to do is copy and paste your YouTube link into grok AI, and ask the AI to create a course curriculum on each YouTube video, and then we can simply categorize these in a in an academic format.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:14
Does it have to be grok? That means I'd have to pay for Twitter now, right?

Speaker 1  1:57:17
Yeah, well, I have grok. I pay for premium Twitter, because grok is it speaks a bit more truth. I think chat GPT is a little bit more censored. Okay, all right,

Speaker 6  1:57:30
lies just Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:57:35
And speaking of, can you get the AI here to do a summary of this lecture? It

Bill Clearfield  1:57:41
does it, but I don't know what to do with it. You know, it shows up in my when I go online, in the zoom, in the zoom the, you know, it'll, it'll be there, but I don't know what to do with it. So

Unknown Speaker  1:57:59
Well, you would probably put it in a blog post, maybe.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:03
Okay, catch me up on the meeting. Let's see something came up here. So let's see what it says.

Speaker 1  1:58:11
I'll put this in grok later, after I upload it to YouTube and see what it gleans from this lecture. The

Bill Clearfield  1:58:20
group discussed organizing their video content. Well, we discussed more than that.

Speaker 1  1:58:26
I missed a bit. Oh, well, I'll try to figure it out later with grok and show you what I got.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:34
Okay, alright, so Dr Tanner will talk about that little project, and again, next week we have, we're going to learn all about soy, right? And I'm assuming it's going to be positive, not negative, correct? Well,

Speaker 2  1:58:50
I prefer all everybody throw their questions at it. They're the special, I guess, the special company for soy.

Speaker 6  1:58:56
Yeah, Mark Messina is a soy spokesperson, so he's going to be pro soy.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:04
Okay? It's not a multi level marketing thing, is it?

Speaker 6  1:59:07
No, no no, Jerry, but that's his job. Okay? All right, here to be pro soy, alright? Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:17
somebody's gotta be pro soy. I guess

Unknown Speaker  1:59:21
that's don't throw tomatoes yet. Yeah, let him talk first.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:26
I gotta throw tomato, you know? But I asked you, I asked you all, if that, you know, I told you I got this. I get this email once a week from this immunologist, who's, who's, there's nothing wrong with glyphosate. Sugar doesn't cause any problems, you know. You know, there's no such thing as adrenal fatigue. There's no such thing as leaky gut. You know, none of that ever exists. It's all pseudoscience. Wow, I was going to I asked you if you if I thought I should bring her on, but the answer was no,

Speaker 2  2:00:05
no. This guy has been into multiple conferences. He's really renowned speaker for it, so he's really a good resource person for this. So there'll be a good educational program for everyone,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:17
alright, so I want everybody to read up on endocrine disruptors then, okay, so we should be all experts on it by next Tuesday night.

Speaker 5  2:00:29
You got it, but one good thing about soy is that it's the source of natto. Yes, that's true. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:37
Well, see, okay, so there, there's one good thing about it, yeah, that's about, that's about it,

Unknown Speaker  2:00:43
Mommy, beans, tofu,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:45
Alright, I hope this. I hope anybody who's who's today for him, you know, says Hi, says Hi, and we can get together and, you know, you know, break bread and maybe exchange some ideas. And we can go to the to the exhibit hall and and throw to Dr hurt dog. Okay, you know, be there at the universe, at the in his, in his orange jacket, at the the university, compounding, uh,

Speaker 1  2:01:11
we'll put you up on the stage. Clearfield. I want him to do the dog and pony show. On you, on me.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:17
Oh, you want to, yeah, with all these, with all of these. So, yeah. Oh, I got my true age, by the way. So ammg, the true diagnostic was there? Oh, you did. How was it i So, those of you don't know that I am, I am 70.84 years old, and my true age is 61.6 Wow, I'm doing well, but the one thing that was was high was 75.4 was my my hormone profile, which I don't understand. Yeah, they don't really break it down, which I don't understand. Because my last testosterone was about 940 I don't know how they got that, but my cardiac age was 59.6 and my my renal age was 64.2 and my overall score was 60. I think it was 60.9 something.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:17
So they do emotional age four. So when did you leave New York?

Bill Clearfield  2:02:27
I never left. I was never in New York. I grew up in Philadelphia.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:30
Okay, close enough. Close enough.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:32
I went to medical school in Iowa. I went back to Philadelphia for two years, and then I ended up in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania for 30 years.

Speaker 5  2:02:41
I love Billy. I did two years of fellowship there.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:46
Looks bad. You weren't at the you weren't at the Metropolitan Hospital, you know, at eighth and race Street, though, you know, you know the do hospital. You went to a real

Unknown Speaker  2:02:56
hospital, University of Pennsylvania, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:59
Okay, real hospital. That's where we So, I was an OBGYN resident, and so they someone came in and premature labor, that's where we would send them, because, you know, we couldn't handle the babies there. So that, so that that's so we were, you, you went to a real hospital, not, not not ours, not our side one, so, so, but that's, but we learned how to do and, you know, we, when we were students and interns, we put in chest tubes, we put in central lines. We did, you know, you we did. We did all of that stuff. And then when I went to Wilkes Barre as a resident, they didn't do any of that stuff, right? My first, and I was an had been an OB GYN, my first night on call, I did a forceps delivery, and I put a central line in, and I put a chest tube in, and I got reamed out the next day by the by the the the program chief and told never do that again. By if I had called attending and to do that stuff in North Philadelphia, I would, I would have, I would have had my head handed to me so but, and none of the residents, they didn't even know how to put in an IV. So, you know, the price would be competent. They call me at four in the morning to come to the to the ICU to put, put in a central line before they call the the attending so. But, you know, nobody calls me to paint their help them paint their house, though, because that that I'm pretty bad at. So just to trade off, I guess Very

Speaker 1  2:04:27
good. I'm going to call it night, guys. I'm going to sleep. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:30
alright, good night, everybody. Thank you so much.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:32
Let's talk tomorrow.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:34
We'll get the video. We'll get the videos out as soon as possible, and we'll see you next week. And if you're again, if you're going to be in Vegas, you know, you know make make yourself known you soon yeah we're gonna have fun, we always do.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:48
See All right, good night. Thanks,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:50
Stephan.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:51
Sure thing.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai