Unknown Speaker  00:33
you're muted. You can hear me

Unknown Speaker  00:35
yeah engineer me. Yeah. Okay. Perfect

Unknown Speaker  00:45
Hello, Dr. chilufya

Bill Clearfield  00:47
Doctors Aaron How you doing?

Speaker 1  00:51
Hello doctors. They're glad you're here. Good.

Bill Clearfield  00:57
We're all excited we may be getting a visitor from Paris likewise.

Unknown Speaker  01:03
You are excited to get sorry where we

Bill Clearfield  01:05
have we have we may be having a guest the student from Paris.

Speaker 2  01:12
Oh, yes. Or a student. Okay. Both of those.

Bill Clearfield  01:18
So, so they're very excited to hear you. So I hope they get there because I think it's like one o'clock in the morning there so. Oh, yeah,

Speaker 2  01:26
they're, I think, seven hours. Ahead of us.

Bill Clearfield  01:29
So that would be midnight here. Midnight they're okay, but they're young. They can handle it. There

Unknown Speaker  01:37
you go

Unknown Speaker  01:38
till midnight. Midnight, I guess. Is everybody

Bill Clearfield  01:46
good? How you doing show? Oh, good.

Unknown Speaker  01:50
I think this is more exciting than the debate.

Unknown Speaker  01:56
After typically, how long do I have?

Bill Clearfield  01:59
Oh, you know, as long as you need. We've, we've gone as long as two hours we've gone as short as you know, 45 minutes. So

Unknown Speaker  02:09
fortified minutes for me is a snack. That's like

Speaker 3  02:15
that. Yeah, sure. This is gonna be great and moderate.

Bill Clearfield  02:21
Yeah. So I think the last time I think we did it we were an hour and a half just on the first case. So the last time that we had you on,

Speaker 2  02:30
um, the reason that I explain it thoroughly, because I want everybody to understand my perspective and that's how I teach.

Bill Clearfield  02:42
I always thought you're gonna have to apologize.

Unknown Speaker  02:47
Apologize for talking. We're not looking

Bill Clearfield  02:48
for any apologies. We're actually we're glad you. You're so thorough. So yeah, no

Speaker 2  02:54
last time actually, we covered two cases but one case the slides was was not movie. think we've covered it to one the title, title, a tumor patient and also the second was was female infertility. I think we've covered the covered both.

Bill Clearfield  03:18
I know you defy all odds with what you do. Yeah. So right where I came from, not where you came from, but where I came from. That stuff because right so what do you hear that stuff? Doesn't work.

Speaker 2  03:34
homeopathy works and amazingly, amazingly, that's a reason that I spend time in order to explain it. People have to understand that fundamentally. Otherwise, you know, homeopathy has been attacked it and it's been labeled as doesn't work. It's placebo doesn't work. It's placebo. Because then nobody has spent time to explain it. From scientific point of view like the research I've done. I don't know. Dr. Clifford. Have you read my research on edge Patty's is doing the journal. Some of it is on the website as well and also in LinkedIn. Fix me it took me years to really understand and now easily, you know, give it to everyone to read it at least to get some you know, some view it's not homeopathy is not just art of homeopathy has a science. It has principles has laws it has, you know, as I always say you have to treat the person and not not the disease. We don't have medicine for any diseases. We are it doesn't have medicine, for diabetes, for cholesterol for just name it. That's what terminology doesn't make. It doesn't make any sense to us. So we have to treat the person. So if we treat the person there is no way. No way that we cannot remove the disease. I never had failure, that the failure I might have is not a failure. I mean, the shortfall that's because it's expensive. People could sometimes cannot invest financial, and this continuation of so many homeopathic medicine in Canada since 25 years ago to now it is stabilizing now, almost back to this reasons not because homeopathy fails. That's unfortunate, because that's a fight. That's a question you have to create.

Bill Clearfield  05:50
Somebody asked me today as a matter of fact, there was a you Dr. Nereo was remembered about

Unknown Speaker  05:57
I know Dr. Maria, it's

Bill Clearfield  05:59
illegal to prescribe for the doctors to prescribe herbal remedies or over the counter supplements or something or in Canada. Does that was that you doctor?

Speaker 3  06:09
Oh no, not I'm not I mean, I don't know the somebody

Bill Clearfield  06:14
asked me about that. So no

Speaker 3  06:17
maybe Yes, Doctor perfect. Is that correct? That anything

Bill Clearfield  06:20
you don't even about that.

Unknown Speaker  06:21
Can you repeat a doctor and careful

Bill Clearfield  06:25
for medical doctors to recommend supplements or herbal remedies is illegal.

Speaker 2  06:30
They cannot some but some but they cannot. They cannot so no I think up to a certain level they can just not prescribe they can say yes. They can say like have vitamin C or vitamin D or something like that but they cannot right. They lost license that. It's a lot of I don't mean a lot but I mean, several cases. I know that they lost their license. So one of them. Actually we were working PhD department together. After 25 years of practice, she lost her license. And because she was recommending natural medicine to her patients. And so, unfortunately, but she was very happy about it because she said that that is then brought me into this.

Bill Clearfield  07:32
She didn't become an influencer and say whatever she wants now, right? She's doing

Speaker 2  07:37
she was doing so well. We're working together. She was doing so well. And she actually was so happy and everybody was so picky. They're like sorry for her. She said don't be so I'm so happy about it. So and she was doing great. She became a professor at the State Department that was working and having lots of students. She's retired now but I mean back then she was doing great. So many doctors, like

Bill Clearfield  08:10
our like our hormone influencer friends, you know, they say whatever they want. They don't doesn't matter. Nobody can you know what he can, you know, I don't know how it is that they you know they can recommend the different hormonal remedies and all sorts of regimens and whatnot. They have no degrees in anything.

Speaker 3  08:29
I think that's what we were talking about this morning about the influencers, the ones who doesn't have a license, and they actually are recommending supplements, or not even sometimes with medicine. I

Bill Clearfield  08:41
got an email from what he says if I want to be coached by him or $10,000 a year to be coached by him. They have no degree in anything.

Speaker 2  08:55
The family physician of my cancer patient was cured thyroid cancer. She asked my name she asked about my name and who I am so she wanted to connect with me. But she was she she told my patient that I don't want you to you know tell anybody that I want to I want to I want to connect to your homeopath. So it was a terrible situation, but it's getting a little bit easier. But I mean, up to 10 years ago

Bill Clearfield  09:35
I had back home back home in Pennsylvania. I had a doctor like that he was a pulmonologist and he says I need your help he hurt his neck or something. I need your help but I need to come after hours when no one's around and you never saw me. I was doing I was doing acupuncture on you

Speaker 2  09:53
know my specialist the Tyree the specialist after the thyroid tumor where mom with my treatments and they couldn't detect explained that last time so when she went she was called in and she he he asked her how did that happen? And she she told her she told him that she's senior homeopath. He throw his file when they called by to her faith. And he told her just the comeback. very disrespectful. Very disrespect. Is that of and she was so scared that if something happened in the future, they're not going to take her anymore. But, but fortunately she never needed to go back and she and her 45 relatives are my patients so none of them is to go back. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  10:56
she can find she can find one of us somewhere along the line.

Speaker 2  11:02
I mean, this is us. We just did back then it was the way that they were so intimidated, right. They were scaring.

Bill Clearfield  11:11
Okay, so ready. You're ready to go. It's a little after five. So I think we can get started. I didn't know I was just going to push. I know we were just chit chatting. So

Speaker 2  11:20
okay, let me just oh so

Bill Clearfield  11:23
thanks. Welcome, everybody. Thank you for coming. And we're here once again. Tonight we have Dr. Parven Zerrin who is the head of the runs the bio quantum Academy of Canada and doctors Aaron has runs complete courses in homeopathy from you don't know anything to advanced practitioners and also all sorts of integrative medicine, therapies and she's has faculty all over the world. In fact, in two weeks on it was in it was in the email this week with a link if you're interested. There's a webinar on four hour webinar on the principles of homeopathy. I'm going to do a little piece on the history of homeopathy, but doctors Aaron's going to do the heavy lifting there. And I can explain that and when it is and also I'm gonna let you introduce yourself. You do a better job of it than I can and take it away. And thanks.

Speaker 3  12:30
I don't know if Kayla has a questionnaire. That's fair. Her hand just said she pressed a button by accident.

Bill Clearfield  12:38
Kayla, do you have a question? It was just that an accident. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  12:45
There you go.

Speaker 2  12:47
Thank you. Thank you for your kind invitation and introduction. As always, yes, I'm the founder of by quantum Academy and actually, Dr. Khaled Feld is our inner faculty as well. And I always admired Dr. Clearfield for standing here. Right and truth and so and never give up. So you're kind of people that you will never give up. And then he's being a great colleague and also as faculty at the Python Academy. Thank you so much again for your kind invitation. I was lucky to have a like a quick over view on my perspective for a ton of attendees who might not know me. And just just quick overview if Dr. Clifford allows me to go Go ahead okay. Let me just change the theory. So.

Unknown Speaker  13:52
Okay. Hold on a sec. Just trying to minimize things. So I'm coming from different backgrounds. It's might, you know, resonates with some of you might not resonate, but I mean,

Speaker 2  14:15
I'm a classical homeopath. And that's my domain that I believe in treating the person, not the disease, because disease is one internal disharmony with countless manifestation which we call them symptoms of the disease and treating the individual person in order to remove the internal disease. It's something that I believe in and I have been practicing. Reduction reductionism, approach and reactive medicine, which is the allopathic model always fails in chronic conditions, because suppressing or managing the disease never removed the internal disease. Healing is the art of human body we are born with it and the healing abilities in doubt in all living beings, including plants, animals and humans by nature, without exception. We all have the healing power is endowed with us. You're programmed for it. And there is no difference between healing abilities between human beings. But you should never underestimate the healing power of human body at any phase of disease at any age. So the sorry for this. Just move this quickly. The concept of healing and cure. Personally I never call myself a healer because we are not a healer. We are physicians we are assistance nature. We do not heal or cure from outside whatsoever. We're just giving people the right tools and rewinding mechanism to heal themselves. The body heals and cured itself from within with the help of right system of medicine. Healing always follows the natural laws and principles and concept of cure is based on these healing laws and principles. The reason that homeopathy works because homeopathic court principles are based on these natural laws, violating these natural laws while it violating the principles of healing. It's it's definitely is healing the ability the power of healing. Your body can artistically unintelligent to heals you with no effort. When you activate your healing power to remove the disease, which is internal disharmony. Human body has one disease, only one internal disharmony with countless manifestation. But in allopathic model, every single manifestation is called one disease and has a terminology. That's why in homeopathy, we do not care about those terminology. So we can we can heal the body on a timely manner restoring homeostasis with the help of a right mechanism, tools and administration of naturally derived substances that is called medicine. So in generally speaking that's that's the that's the principles of healing and cure. As I always say, healing principle the concept of cure always follows that internal rules, not external rules. Internal Rules are in doubt within us. By nature, and natural law is absolute. The law of nature is absolute and Nature never follows man made rules. Human being is an absolute part of nature and follows the same laws and principle as problem. manmade rules such as synthetic drug or artificial inoculations. Or the violation of these natural laws. Healing is an internal domain and never follows external rules. So this is a over very short overview of my perspective. And now we're getting to the to homeopathy which is this the medicine of past present and future. Homeopathy is existed from the from the beginning of life. So homeopathy is not just happened or it's developed in a full system of medicine by Dr. Handyman. 200 years ago. But the concept of homeopathy like yours like he's been around from the beginning from ancient times goes to Hippocrates Paracelsus. So, I would explain I would go back to the history of like yours like or similar concept from 1000 years. ago at the webinar that is coming in September 27. Homeopathy is a complete system of medicine that is the best choice for the countless chronic diseases for many acute conditions, emergency cases malignancy, infectious diseases, epidemic, pandemic auto immunity and unique immunization. So, um, we always, I always talk about this step, because I'm a follower of Dr. Hanuman. And this is always we all believe in that that no medicine can do miracle without proper food and nutrition without proper personal hygiene, public sanitation, pure drinking water, pure air, healthy lifestyle and right environment. In absence of these essential requirement, healing process are blocked, get exhausted and restoration of health is either delayed or in some cases, it never takes place. That's why sometimes they say, oh, homeopathy isn't doesn't work. So there are many, many reasons to show, you know the that they can cause disharmony, all of them should be removed. Because no medicine can do miracle. No medicine can help heal you when there is an existing chronic cellular deficiency or chronic cellular intoxication, harsh and abusive environmental factors. Dr. Hanuman clearly stated in his Oregon of medical art repeatedly. So I would like to get into my approach and so I might have a quick overview on the two last cases that I share with you. Homeopathy is the foundation of my practice. And integrative medicine is the enhancement of my treatments for a faster recovery. So I never treat anybody without a constitutional medicine without homeopathic constitutional medicine. And also on the other hand, I never do it without my integral approach. And integrative medicine that I choose are falling into the homeopathic domain. That there isn't to be compatible with my my, the foundation of my practice. Integrative Medicine is natural domain is an umbrella umbrella which covers many natural modalities such as homeopathy, nutrition, GMO therapy, by therapeutic medicine, hormone toxicology, nutritional medicine, and many more. These medicines have been used for centuries in different parts of the world to treat human illnesses. So, in homeopathic domain, we don't call it medication we call it remedy. So remedy is natural drug is artificial medicine heals medication suppressive. That's the difference between homeopathic model and allopathic model. So the human body is endowed with a natural superpower and ability to heal itself at any given moment. This healing power needs to be stimulated, activated, nourished and supported in order to take action. All naturally derived substances that can do this job is called medicine. The medicine can be a nutrients, medicine can be homeopathy, medicine can be sometimes the emotions such as love. These are all common medicine. That activating the healing powers in human body. Homeopathic medicine should be the first choice for activation of the healing power. So um, my cured cases they are they were I chose very difficult cases to share with you. My homeopathic approach. The reason I chose these cases are first of all, they were advanced pathology and they were rejected from other medical practitioners. They tried so many different treatments, allopathic Lee even natural medicine and and the last one is because they I am I have permanent permission to share it publicly proving about how we can activate the inner healing ability and removing chronic internal disharmony by homeopathic medicine to bring forth the cure destroy the stating health gently, efficiently and permanently during walking you through my cases these are going to be program my patients have tried many different allopathic medication treatments for a long time without improvement prior to coming to see me.

Speaker 2  24:10
But how did they fully recovered? I will I will explain to you and I will walk you through my approach. The approach that I created a because homeopaths around the world. The science of homeopathy is never changing. But the art of homeopathy, it goes from homeopathy to homeopathy. When I went to in 2009, I went to Germany for homeopathic exchange of knowledge. They were almost 400 homeopaths gather for almost 10 days there. When I listened to every single homeopath from United States, from Canada, from, from Europe, from South America, from Russia from Middle East, they were all it awesome jobs. So they all cure the patients, but not too often they have the same art. So they were all classical approach, but I mean, the art was different. So that's why homeopaths around the word that they're, they're not practicing it differently. They're just their approaches. In classical approach for totality of symptoms of physical, mental, emotional, so the classical approach as you you might know, we gather all the symptoms from a physical body, mental and emotional body. He call it totality of symptoms in order to find the characteristic of the patients to match it with this most similar medicine. In homeopathy. Because we treat the person not the disease, practically we say we treat the sick, not the sickness. homeopath does not find the disease. We don't do diagnosis. Homeopathy understands the person to find a matching similar remedy to remove the internal disease. It could be classical, or it could be in Houma, toxicology, or in form of modern homeopathy. You still anything you choose has to be similar with manifestation of disease and tautology of symptoms. So I created my own piece of art based on the science of homeopathy, which has made me to successfully treated 1000s of patients around the world. The result has been astonishing to the point that has given me such a great tool and confidence to teach my personal approach to medical practitioners. Your almost two years ago when Dr. Clifford knows about that, that we launched our platform, our educational platform international educational platform in integrative medicine or homeopathy. I was often ask, what is your goal? What is your goal? What is your aim? I said my aim is to not just bring changes to transform the system because the system is broken. And they one of them on the one of the podcasts say, is it possible? I don't think so. It's possible. I said that according to the quantum physics, every single moment there areas free 1000s 3000 possibilities in every single moment. And that's, that's, that's how universe works. So as long as you stand up for right, and the truth is going to happen. And so Anna said, why your aim? Why you're focusing on medical doctors, I said because the medical doctors are the victim of that situation. There are they all want to help. They all want they are on their own. And I my aim is to ask to convert as many as I lopat in my lifetime, it might be short, it might be okay, but as as many as I can and that was that was my my answer. And now we are having 14 medical doctors graduating in December from from bio quantum Academy so, um, let me just get to my cases and I chose these cases because they were advanced pathology as I as I mentioned earlier, and the first one was a large thyroid tumor and nodules. Female 62 years old, which I talked about it the last time the second one for infertility four years a female for years and pregnancy in four and a half months. A major stroke with the left side paralysis seizure with vomiting, incontinence and stuttering and also advanced Crohn's disease. In males 75 years old. So, I would love to talk about my approach that as I said, I will never go without my classical approach. I always go with a constitution or medicine, which is the foundation of my practice, but I follow it on toxicology, GMO therapy. Tissue salts, or legal therapy, nutritional plan, educating how to live life as a healthy lifestyle and also right environment. So, by integration of the above modality I enhanced the efficacy of my treatments, integration of compatible modality is the key to a speedy recovery. So generally, almost maybe 90% of cases, I create six protocols for each patient. Sometimes I have to create more protocols but so far as I said more than about 90% Six words because would be enough. The very first one is the simulium remedy, which is read repairing patching the whitetop force and activating killing power. It's for alignment for balancing, normally seven to 10 days. Second protocol I go with the endocrine pathways is homeopathic medicine, which we call it from a toxicology or by therapeutic medicine. The third protocol I add GMO therapy for deep monitoring drainage, also adding oligo therapy for mineralization is organic therapy or SAR codes for a stimulation of an activation of organs. And also in case to case I add no salts for immune system fortify or works on immunity especially with autoimmune diseases and the sex particles either I repeat or I create a maintenance for them. So last time I talked about the the title eat I'm gonna pass this case and the tirade tomorrow was the title a tumor patient was scheduled to remove her tyrant and she refused to do that. Not only she refused to remove her tirade, she removed her. She refused to go on any chemotherapy or medications. So she came to me. After nine months, the tumor was not after 14 months she was completely out of cancer. So because I last time I talked about this I'm just going to pass it but if any if there is time left, I can go back to it. Okay, sorry, Doctor colorful I had I have to just pass this. The second one was the female infertility. Now she couldn't get pregnant in two marriages. So and then four and a half months she got pregnant with my treatments. Okay, so let me just go to the stroke patients which is scheduled for tonight

Unknown Speaker  32:59
okay

Speaker 2  33:06
so major a stroke after my major stroke due to turn carotid artery the complaints I I receive from my patients, while the left side paralysis is suffering grandmas seizures frequently violent form vomiting and incontinence during asleep. He was 66 years old athletes very active was a professional soccer player that He was the captain of his soccer team, very active, energetic outgoing person prior to his stroke is a stroke happened in February 2009. He was hospitalized for three months in Canada and the United States. He tried a variety of treatments by several different allopathic medications, long term physiotherapy, a speech therapy, intensive homecare by nurses surgeries after a stroke. He did. They did surgery after stroke. And he was suggested to do more surgeries but patients and his family refused to do so.

Speaker 2  34:25
He did he went for several different treatments after his stroke he went as I mentioned earlier, he was hospitalized for three months in Canada and United States without any results was on a variety of treatments with several allopathic medications, long term physiotherapy, speech therapy, and also intensive homecare by nurses for hospitals. He could not even take shower himself. They did a major surgery right after a stroke but again, they wanted to do more surgeries history of medic medication and treatments that they they wrote it in like a like a paper for me that several seizure medications he was on several seizure medications when he came to seizure has stopped for a short period of time. But then medication has stopped working after what Cedric came back aggressively and more intense than before. And frequent relapses. seizure medications were no longer helping him and they were looking for alternative therapies. He did acupuncture, chiropractic, naturopathic medicine, herbal medicine, functional medicine, and several other national treatments. For more than two years. Nothing worked. He was hospitalized again for frequent grand mal seizures with violent vomiting and incontinence during asleep. Seizures was occurring during asleep more often than during day. Left side paralysis was getting worse, getting worse than before, even though he was still on many different medications.

Speaker 2  36:31
March 3 2012, they came to me three years after his stroke after long term, consumption of medications and many different treatments came to me three years after his initial stroke with persisting conditions actually, the way they explained that it was way worse than before. He was offered referred to me by his naturopathic doctor who was one of my colleagues like them. He was walking to my office I observed him the way that he was walking into my office extremely slow, leaning on his right leg with a cane and help of his wife, which he she was holding him otherwise they would fall down. He kept dragging and pulling his leg. his left leg with much difficulty could not talk properly. It did not I did not understand His words clearly because he was he had constant stuttering. He was complaining that he was very exhausted, no energy. He was very pale when I saw him and very drowsy. He was not eating properly as he as he explained he had no appetite. He was not getting enough sleep because frequent seizure at night and also loss of malfunction, low vitality and severely depressed so in case of neurological disorders or cases such as aftermath of stroke, the picture of the patient is lost because of the surgeries because of so much suppression on by allopathic medications that fit the homeopathic picture of patient is lost. In such cases aftermath of his stroke, Alzheimer's dementia, Parkinson's, ALS, progressive MS. In almost all neurological disorder, I hardly can find a simile more homeopathic medicine to match the picture of the person. But I am treating the person not the disease. I have to always find a way to get closest medicine homeopathic medicine to the person. homeopaths cannot find similar the similar among homeopathic medicine or constitutional remedy to match the picture of the person to medicine. It's the hardest thing and homeopathy can do. But we have to we have to do it the way that you know, from family from close people from friends, just get as many information as possible in order to understand the person prior to the stroke. Because picture is lost. So constitutional picture is lost due to an advanced metrology and long term suppression of symptoms by various drugs and treatment. So I was getting help from his immediate family that they were coming with him to understand his constitution or characteristics. So completed his case I completed his case by help by getting help from his wife and sometimes from his son is a generality after stroke was declining. He was in hyper state, low biological function. Everything was slowed down. He was practically in survival state. The generalities was such as digestion and asleep and energy was terrible. He was severe constipated. Most of us suffering from indigestion. low or no energy, lack of sleep, lack of activity, very anxious, alternating with depression. Well, he was angry he the way I saw him when I asked him you know questions I saw anger in his face. very unhappy impatience severely exhausted an argument or and on social. I saw him a couple of times that was arguments with his wife in my office. And these are the exact words by the patient and his wife. Cognition was weakening memory declining concentration and focusing were reducing drowsiness throughout the day slickness because of a slickness at night due to seizure vomiting, and incontinence. He, they they said that he has no patient went when the for example, the TV's on in in in in the in the house and he had no desire to talk to people around him. His family desperately looking for help. So the very first approach, the very first step is a first aid injury remedy. We call for emergency stem cells. No matter is a broken bone or is a scar or it's a scrape, burn concussion or a stroke. Any form of injury has the same message to the body. The stroke is a severe injury to the brain cells. Brain has a local repair system the stem cells, but not enough after major stroke. And it needs to call for Morris themselves to be released from the bone marrow to rush to the brain for repair, healing and regeneration. We do this with Arnica. The first emergency or injury remedy in Materia Medica. In homeopathic world is Arnica. Arnica. I gave Arnica. 30 ch immediately, two times a day for five days. Then once a day for five days total 10 days in physical injury using local visitors ch a lower potency Arnica but more repetition. Never use high potency in physical injury. Arnica is the first integral remedy in homeopathy. No matter if a skin is bone, a connective tissue or its brain or nickel calls for stem cells. Stem cells is our repair system. The second step is constitutional remedy, which was the hardest part of my practice with this case, because I had to get help from the family. And also the totality of presenting sift symptoms are are helping so much to the to the come to the right constitutional remedy. In a stroke of cases never start with high potency in the beginning. Is constitutional remedy according to the presenting symptoms. And also the characteristics that I got help from his family was calcium. Calcium is it's a poly crest homeopathic medicine is a great neurological homeopathic medicine. It's from it's a farm potassium family or Cali family. I gave him cost cows to compare research. Three times a day for Thursday, two times a day for four days and once a day for five days total 10 days causticum LTCH remedy I select that remedy based on his current general physical, mental and emotional symptoms. Seven days break after calcium 30 ch that's how I do it. After the Constitution or medicine. I always give seven days break. The reason is to go to let the body takes it over and then retake the case and see how the Constitution or medicine work. So I did not give single remedies after how's the gum it's called Panamanian tincture address assigned Charlie is different from Kelly family from potassium family is an amazing neurological medicine. But interestingly my patient my stroke patient presented all the symptoms of calcium, calcium is calcium is a poly Chris homeopathic medicine is very powerful effect on all organs, main areas of concentration on nervous system and connective tissues that it has progressive the ability a stiffness and process. In calcium people are serious people very intense, sensitive, sympathetic, idealistic activist intolerance and great anger of injustice. Sometimes they're very angry because of injustice or political or rebellious or violent political extremists. And deep sometimes they they experience deep grief from injustice. So there when I because material Mavica amazingly you know, Anger can match match the you know, the patients with, you know, Ali crest medicine, Materia Medica. The more I read the calcium the more I was convinced that is the right medicine for my patients because he was meant he was many presenting almost almost everything so calcium characteristic it's as I said match with the with the stroke patients and it's because it's Pollack wrist affects almost all organs, all system including nervous system and connective tissues. It's amazing. Homeopathic medicine for cerebral accidents from concoction to straw for neurodegenerative disorders for seizures, epilepsy, convulsions, actually the convulsions with the modality that getting worse in a sleep paralysis in advanced pathology, numbness of the left side, slowly progressive stability and stiffness. My stroke per patient presented the picture of testicle cow cows completely. So I didn't need to do any differential diagnosis between the ministers. So, at this point, because I was in the right direction and capsicum was the right medicine, then I continued with the pathways remedies, which which are coming from from a toxicology these are the endocrine pathways, homeopathic medicine for a stroke. So then any advanced pathology or you know, difficult cases I always check the patient with this phases of disease because I have to understand the face of disease in order to create right protocols in homo toxicology for them, because the disease evolution table for me is it's like giving me a clue which state which phase the patient is. My stroke patient was in a degeneration phase of disease which is the advanced phase. So accordingly I created protocol for him. So the very first endocrine pathways protocol was the brain pathway medicine for brain cells injury for convulsions, seizures, grandma and central nervous system

Speaker 2  48:39
so and also, this sorry, it's just I cannot see this okay.

Speaker 2  48:53
halfways remedy I chose injury medicine, which is the important phase of the treatments. I started hormone toxicology after a causticum the research. I worked on injured brain cells as I said, calling for more stem cells or toxicology for injury including a combination of most important injury remedies such as Artica Bella Donna calendula, Mr melas Ross stocks, Ruta Symphytum officials, so in the very beginning, I give our nickel alone, then I give the Constitution or medicine calcium, then I moved to homo toxicology pathways remedy, the first one. It was for the brain injury that has a combination of ordinary couple Adama klein geranyl Are the homeopathic medicine that if you call them emergency homeopathic medicine, because no matter it was three years after a straw, he didn't he didn't heal he was not cured. It says as my as my my approach was a still emergency. So that's why I gave him emergency medicine. I gave a I gave this combination three times a day. 10 drops each time for six weeks. They were all in default the six decimal dilution hormone toxicology normally is in low dilution. So but i as i said i My approach was emergency for this case and I gave it three times a day and drops each time

Speaker 2  50:42
the second formal toxicology or endocrine pathway was for convulsion, epilepsy, and seizure. This combination was including Bella Donna who Farhana Cuprum, metallicum, Pulsatilla, silica and zinc and Metallica. Again, I gave him three times a day 10 drops each time for six weeks. This combination was a little bit the potency the dilution was higher from D 12. Two D 200. There is a important note it before repairing injured injured brain cell. Overall, healing never takes place. So if I didn't if I didn't repair the injured injured brain cells you would never I could never remove the entire disharmony in this patients. That's why my focus on repairing the injured brain cell first. So if this another pathways was central nervous system pathways for whole toxicology, including phosphorus like Jesus, ignatia, Amara, Agaricus, magnesium phosphoricum, and zinc come these are these aren't coming ready or you can ask your manufacturer or supplier to make it for you. These are this is an amazing combination for never for nervous system central nervous system pathway. Again, I give it three times a day 10 drops each time for six weeks. So after that, I started giving homeopathic tissue salts. Tissue salts are amazing system of medicine that they are prepared according to homeopathic principles, but in an nanosize and I chose the brain tonic I chose the tissue salts that there are lucky nourishment for the brain cells. These tissue salts all of them. Almost five of them they have phosphorus. The first one is California's gallium phosphoricum Calcarea phosphoricum Magnesium phosphoricum natural phosphoricum and ferrum phosphoricum Five tissue cells that contains phosphorus and also Metro Maria to come at in addition to that, this this complex this combination of tissue cells with an amazing brain tonic for almost everybody but for for stroke. People or any brain injury. We should give it a little bit more often. I started actually I didn't write it here, but I started six times a day for the first couple of days. And but I asked them to reduce it to three times a day for tablets on the tongue for six consecutive weeks

Speaker 2  54:09
I added as I that's that's my protocol. They always add you know different system of medicine as we go I added GMO therapy for among trees, drainage or opening up the boundaries opening up the liver pathways, hepatic pathways, renal pathways, lymphatic system, a geometer of your amazing system of medicine. You get that coming from embryonic plants from parts shoots, and they have embryonic enzymes that are very powerful. This enzymes called axon or Gibberellins, which are the medicine the adult plants do not have these enzymes and medicinal plants that come from you know adult plants or herbal medicine do not have this enzymes. That's why I always choose GMO therapy for this purpose. I chose almost gluten and soy which is amazing for cerebral infarct after post the stroke Tilia tomentosa for epilepsy, Ficus carica for anxious neurosis and Ilex aquifolium For epileptic conditions. I gave them a two times a day each of them because my approach was a little bit aggressive. Because to me it was a steal emergency. So the two times a day from each Gemma therapy morning and evening for six weeks. So Gemma therapy is not a mother tincture, as I said, is embryonic plants. It comes from both shoots and very young, young part of the plants when they still have the enzymes I've seen uncle Berlin's you, you can give it individually or combined so I asked them you can either you can mix them together, or you can give them individually if you have time. So his wife actually said no, I would like to give it individually I said, just go for it. So, after all these treatments, all the protocols were designed, all the medicines were given and all instructions there were given and they went home. They they came for the first follow up. It was May May 5 2012, two months after the initial consultation with me some improvement in all levels of physical, mental emotional, as these are all the words that they they gave me all the words that they explained. He said he's feeling more relaxed, less depressed and less anxious. I asked him the percentage he couldn't give me any percentage but he said generally I feel if I feel more relaxed, and he said his eating is much improved. And he has a better appetite which for almost three years, the appetite was not so great. He said he's sleeping longer and better cognition and better focusing on concentration. seizure, very still occurring, but shorter in duration and less intense, less frequent, less sprouting in his mouth, less vomiting and sometimes no urination. During seizure at night, which his wife explained to me. And he said he is less tired when waking up in the morning. He was very exhausted in the morning because of his sleeplessness before but he said is better, his less tired so these are all the words that are reported by the patient and his wife. Okay, I retook the case. Because that's how I do it after the first follow up I retake the case. And based on the improvements and based off every you know the again presenting symptoms. This time he personally could have slowly answered my questions without getting help from his wife. I understood him better talking about his personality and characteristic prior to his stroke. When he explained to me that his his personality that who he was exactly again, how sick and was confirmed. At this point, I increased potency of calcium from pills Ch 200 Ch. I gave him two times a day for three days once a day for four days and total for seven days. I chose higher potency but less repetition less frequency. Calcium was working in a stroke patients that's why I did not change the medicine. There are cases that you know when I retake the case, I have to change the constitution or medicine. But in this case, I didn't have to because pass the con was working properly. Second, follow up July 3 2012. Great improvement four months after initial consultation. Everything improved greatly and notice working better but cautiously talking better and clearer. When he came to me. He's left arm was just sitting in his lap. And I asked him to move his arm left arm. He said he cannot but he only could lift that with help of the right hand. The right arm and to a certain very very like maybe maximum like 1010 centimeters from his lap. So he it just the bed. He couldn't lift his arm so lifting that this in the beginning and initially they could not move his arm before my treatment due to severe left side paralysis. But this time, he has started lifting his arm halfway up. I don't know if you can see me but initially he couldn't. He couldn't lift his arm at all. Just move it with the help of right arm. But this time, he could move it up to here. He could not move his left arm was always relaxed on his lap lap as I said initially in the beginning, I asked him to lift his arm he could straighten he couldn't straighten it up. But after this time, the follow up of the second follow up. He could lift it a little bit higher. Family reported about his positive behavior, more social positive attitude. He started laughing, playing with grandchildren more focused hopeful about his recovery. So in the very first time who when he came to my office, he was very angry at me when I asked him questions, even when his wife is answering to me he was looking at his wife very angrily. But this time was smiling, laughing and joking with his wife. And so that's that's how I saw him on the second follow up. He said the seizure were like a quick tingling, not even noticeable, very shorter in duration and less frequent. His wife reported this incidents were not similar to his physical to his typical seizure at all. And she claimed that he no longer had seizures. But the patients were telling me no he feels he feels tingling of seizure that it is coming, but it doesn't happen. So I continue I asked him to continue the same initial protocol. I did not change the protocol because of significant improvement. I repeated CAT scan 200 ch once a day for seven days again.

Speaker 2  1:02:39
So the third follow up the last seizure attack before July. wife did not even notice the regular seizure. He did not wake up during seizure attack. He was remembering everything in the morning before he said he didn't remember anything. Even he had severe seizure, severe vomiting. Severe or urination but he did not remember anything. This time he said he's remembering everything in the morning. So huge improvement after this protocols. His cognition memory asleep digestion urination appetite improved significantly. He was refreshed in the morning is that he there is no exhaustion, no severe anxiety or depression. He he asked me that he wants to go back to work. Can I give him a letter to go back to work? He was already on sick leave for three years because, you know, he couldn't he couldn't go to work. But that's that's that's why he was so so positive and he said he's he can't he wants to be active. He has started doing work around the house getting along with family and feeling more content so the rules of homeopathic medicine so when we see 85% improvement in patients which we have to produce homeopathic medicine, otherwise, the patient goes through province and we don't we do not want to to this happen. So that's why I reduce when I realized that he's almost 85% better. I reduced the dosage of all homeopathic medicine and related protocols to just two times a day four. From three times a day I reduced the repetition from three times to two times because I didn't want him to experience any form of pruning after improvement. So the fourth follow up December 24. No seizure since July. Since the third follow up. July. They said that he had he had tingling sensations. And December is terrible. They said he said no tingling and no seizure since July. Astonishing recovering in five months, walking comfortably without a cane. Talking clearly and no episodes of seizure. All generalities reported normal, except constipation. That was his default. I guess that was continuous. But less severe. Constipation was his chronic issue prior to his stroke before he had a stroke. He was suffering from constipation, but that got worse after stroke. I reduced all the homeopathic medicine to every other day for one more month. Then reduce them to three times a week for another month. I cry gradually I started tapering off all homeopathic medicine to it due to a great improvement at all levels. So I designed a maintenance protocol on January 28 2013. Memory cognition was highly improved. A started reading and writing seizure free for months. He was walking normally lifting his left arm much higher than before and no longer left side policies. He was walking normally, swimming regularly. Back to play soccer for fun not for competition. He was driving short distance talking normally and going on vacation with his family back to normal life as he reported. My assessment was at the last follow up, he was seizure free 100% But with void my assessment, left leg recovery was more than 95% left arm recovery and mobility more than 90% sensation in left arm and leg was fully back 100% It could lift arms higher and hold the district up to 95% But hold things without difficulty 100% And he has started driving full recovery I designed the maintenance protocol for a few more months. I asked him to stop everything after the maintenance period when when Venice finished for recovery was achieved with astonishing and permanent result to this day. After a maintenance period, they sent me a beautiful testimonial of full recovery as my treatment exceeded their expectation breakthrough for my stroke patient and they gave me a recovery testimonial which is posted on the our official website. You can go to clinic page testimonial sub page and read the letter. So I have the letter here. They mentioned my name dear doctor sorry. It was with pleasure that I provide you with our testimonial of Joe and his condition and how he progress with your expertise. So they explained about that you know that the journey of treatments I have with hospitals here and there. And they gave me this testimonial and I discharged them to this day. So this is what the stroke patients recovery, full recovery. But again, if there is was 5% of for example, I couldn't lift his left arm completely straight. I thought maybe 5% He couldn't make it straight completely but he could lift it straight up here. So I'm Dr. Clearfield Yes, I just I fresh with patience if there is any questions or if you want me to

Bill Clearfield  1:09:45
take questions in the chat if anybody has any questions anywhere. Oh, here's one what what Materia Medica book do you use?

Speaker 2  1:09:56
Materia Medica book. I have concordant material medica is seven material medical in one. But I have a pocket one. Baraka volatize Yes, but the seventh material medical in one. It's my main reference. Right?

Bill Clearfield  1:10:21
I have this one, the desktop companion. That was your recommendation and this is great for us medical doctors that are not classic homeopaths it sort of gives it into it classifies things in our language, not the other way around. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:10:36
the desktop companion is amazing to have. And also, this top guy is for I don't know it's I highly recommend that to medical doctors who are bridging

Bill Clearfield  1:10:53
to homeopathy. Yeah, yeah. I've been using the desktop companion. Yeah, because

Speaker 2  1:10:58
Materia Medica. For example. concordant Baraka is more for classical homeopaths. And but these two, Dr. Rogers Morrison, there's an amazing book as well. I recommend that to medical doctors. So I think I recommended to Dr. Kaypro before right

Speaker 3  1:11:23
I think Kayla is raising her hand she can ask her question now. Kelly Are you available?

Speaker 3  1:11:36
are raising there she does know why. I'm

Speaker 4  1:11:41
sorry. I want to thank you for the presentation. It was great. And you know, I think homeopathy is quite fascinating. I have seen that it works well. I had a patient bring up something and I want it to see how you respond to it. So I had a patient asked me isn't homeopathy like placebo? How would you explain the use of homeopathy to a patient and how it works?

Speaker 2  1:12:20
The patient asked you if homeopathy is placebo?

Speaker 4  1:12:24
Yeah. So I wanted to know, like your response to that and how would you explain the workings of homeopathy?

Speaker 2  1:12:34
Homeopathy is not a placebo. Homeopathy is energized, intelligent and Genius system of medicine. But the problem is with the system and then the mainstream research says that they are not supporting the science behind homeopathy that can be clear to people. The reason they say placebo because they cannot find any particles in homeopathic solution. But the implement and information of the original substances is left in this medicine in the form of waves or quantum objects. So that's why then they cannot detect the particles as allopathic medications. They call it placebo. But the healing is, you know properties and curing problem. properties in a homeopathic medicine are in a form of waves or quantum objects. So if you'd like to know more about how you can answer these questions scientifically, please go to our website by quantum.ca Go to publications and read my research on the science of homeopathy, quantum physics, which explains that so well. And if you have a little bit of background, you can understand it fully. And you can explain it to people that by yours the science of biology or chemistry or even classical physics cannot prove homeopathy because there is no particle. There is no substance in a form of physical in and homeopathic medicine. So I

Bill Clearfield  1:14:40
can I can I weigh in just for a second. From again, from the medical doctor standpoint, one of the ways I explain it, I know it's not perfect. It's almost like a vaccine, where you take what is toxic and what and diluted down to almost nothing or practice or even nothing. And then you know, when you apply it to the patient, then then what you get is an antibody response. That's kind of that's kind of how I explain it. I don't know that medical doctor people does that sound more more plausible or at least more palatable. I know that's not the exact finishing. But you know, there's no medical doctor that says will tell you that a vaccine is placebo. Well, maybe maybe the late the latest ones but not not that not the real ones from you know the polio ones and all of that, but that's kind of how I how I you know, at least that's an explanation that's that's sort of understandable.

Speaker 3  1:15:47
Well, to back that up, there's also there are research studies about homeopathy and one of the resources that you can look into is the NHS. So they have these are smaller studies that you can get out there. It's not comparable to randomized control trials of medical institutions and facilities. But these are basically still studies that backs up homeopathy and and how it works in terms of physiology. It actually has a neuro immunologic endocrine function. And it was the energy that as I guess, behind the concept of these therapies, it's really, really, I think Dr. Parven got it right. It's really more quantum physics that actually will explain this a little better and deeper. But again, studies are out there. And this is something that I have seen and also studied at the same time while I was actually becoming a homeopath. So without their resources, I definitely can put in some in the chat in a bit, but it's just not easy to find for the reason that it's not conventional medicine, unfortunately, but it's there. There's science behind it. And again, it's definitely not placebo. Yes.

Speaker 2  1:17:09
Yes, thank you so much. You explain that greatly. Homeopathy has to be explained. With the way the science of Water and Science of contract visits cannot be explained by science or biology chemistry at all. And so, as you know, I a lot of, you know, scientific data out there about science that how powerful water is, in terms of memory the water has from from the beginning of life, the water has a strong memory and that's how that's how it's memorizing the original substance. Then you'll energize that it's carrying those information so a lot of scientific data is out there and science of water explains it so well. So in my articles, in my research, actually, I explained the science of water first, then a science of quantum physics, in order to really understand truly understand how homeopathy works. And so it's not an easy thing, because even myself I've been homeopath for over two decades, you know, I've been practicing and treating 1000s of patients, but I was not I did not learn the science of homeopathy at the school. They didn't teach us anything and it's it's just the was more of my personal you know, interest in in order to understand that how my stroke patients recovered like that. It's exceeding my expectations by you, even myself in you know, with all this you know, knowledge of homeopathy was just exceeding How does it work? So, that brought me into this, you know, going after, after the, you know, understanding it deeper. So, a lot to do a lot to still work. But unfortunately, homeopathy has been attacked from left and right, by the mainstream medicine by pharmaceutical industries that the research is in the hands of the mainstream. Is not homeopathy is not supported is not funded. Is not backed up. So we, as homeopaths have to do something here. So because there's still still a question and the first question was, the patient comes through to doctor say, from the optics placebo and the doctor Kilford also said that few times that people say homeopathy doesn't work. And to me is just, we all have to come together to to bring it out scientifically. So that's my aim. My goal is to work on it because it works. In my in my practice, I don't have to prove it to anybody that homeopathy works, but when they come to me with that question, I have to show them the scientific document scientific backup. So that's my goal. To go for it. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:00
Okay, so, Dr. Dr. utami has a fairly long explanation about homeopathy and crystals. It's in the chat. I won't even get into explain it. I don't know if he could, you know, try and explain it to you get on mute. And or not. And if not, you want to go on to the second case, then we still have

Speaker 2  1:21:34
Dr. Clearfield would you prefer if I go to the second case, and then we go through all the chats and Sure, okay. Isn't it better? Yeah, that would be better. Okay, so the other case is advanced Crohn's disease, this this one is interesting. suffering from severe autoimmunity and 2014. The reason that I chose the older cases is just I want to, you know, show it show to everyone that there is no report and see after all this time, so that the thyroid tumor, you know, stroke patient. This one, they're the Crohn's disease to this day, and they didn't have any recurrency So, July 2014. Male 75 years old, if I knew he was a family member of my thyroid cancer patient. So he was diagnosed with Crohn's disease. He had frequent diarrhea, severe intestinal bleeding, was losing so much weight. I think one day he came to me they said he lost almost 45 pounds. He was very pale on an image. He was constantly having pain and cramps. He was on regular cortisone, injection and oral courtesans. He was having several other allopathic medications, including antidepressant that was severely depressed. He was on 18 different medications for several conditions such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, high triglycerides, anti inflammatory anemia. Constipation, sleeping anxiety for several years. When he came to my office, he had a bag it was like he was traveling. It was a big bag. I asked me to go through all this medication like so what are what are they? They say these are the medication that is taking. So actually, he came again with his wife, he couldn't look within work properly. But, you know, I went through the bag and I say, I saw I counted. There were 18 different medications. He was taking them on a daily basis. It was shocking to go through his huge bag of allopathic medication. So I cannot see it here. Okay. He was hospitalized. He was hospitalized for a couple of weeks. Actually, the time that he came to me he was hospitalized for a couple of weeks because he came right from hospital. But prior to that, he was hospitalized on and off like maybe four or five six times, you know capsulize Because he was bleeding but this time he was capitalized for two consecutive weeks. Before he came to me, he was underground, colonoscopy, ultrasound X ray biopsy and many blood tests. He was on this study a strong painkiller and sedated medication for severe pain. And he his internal specialist urged him to remove a large part of his large intestine and placed a bag outside class to be permanently he was very terrified. When he heard about this procedure, his family rejected the procedures of surgery to remove the large part of law and test fine or using philosophy. His family decided to remove him from hospital immediately after they urged them to do go to go for the procedure. And directly from hospital they brought him to me on the very same day. So the very first protocol sorry, let me just go back to I gave him the emergency homeopathic protocol for the his first protocol. I asked him to stop oral an injection cortisone upon his agreement. I cannot I it's not that I forced them to go off. But the only thing I can do is to ask them choose because cortisone is confusing the vital force and stopping the healing ability to be activated. Is like loading by cortisone and on loading by homeopathy is not going to work. So I explained that to them. If you want to be on a heavily heavy injection, cortisone injection and heavy courtesan medications honestly, homeopathy is not going to work. So he willingly stopped taking cortisone. So emergency homeopathic remedies using an alternation for pain based on the similarity of the his presenting symptoms, the very first thing I did I give some to homeopathic medicine was what they were called synthesis, the research and also bryonia is or to emergency, homeopathic medicine for pain, because he was in agony, pain he couldn't he was holding his his stomach. He was crying. And you know, he would his wife was holding his shoulder. It's just It was a terrible situation. So I gave him these two emergency medicine to use them back to back so and I asked him to continue attacking them until the pain is subsided. The pain was still there but became less violent and intense as he explained it after using this to emergency medicine. So the Polycrates homeopathic medicine, which is the constitutional medicine. It was after the emergency medicine. As we know, I think all homeopaths know not Suamico is the main and prominent remedy for Crohn's disease but I do not give up based on that. I again, I always give it based on the totality of symptoms and the characteristic of the patients. Which the you know the I knew I knew him and his wife you know, explain a lot about him especially when he was going through this Crohn's disease and you know, the reactions of the patients so, I chose Knox Anca 200 th because this patient was suffering from long term chronic cellular intoxication due to a long term consumption of synthetic pharmaceutical medications. That the bag was shocking the bag of 18 different medications was shocking. Practically they were killing him. So Knox Monica was the best suited remedy based on his pathology of presenting systems, the symptoms or disease presentations. He actually presented generally characteristically also marks vomica. So I did not wait until the pain completely subsided. I just gave Nux vomica back to back with color centers. And also with bryonia. callosum color synthesis for a union and knock Suamico I said use them back to back. In emergency cases we have no choice sometimes because the pain is is terrible and the patients cannot have a normal time normal life until the constitutional remedy kicks in. So I asked him to use them back to back

Speaker 2  1:30:07
so I'll also a add a tissue salts which is part of my treatments. I will never go with without tissue salt because tissue salts are the structures of human body and they need them for their they have different rules in catalytic rules, electromagnetic rules and zymotic rules, structural rules. So when they the advanced you know pathology like this, they are severely deficient in this certain minerals. So I gave them two tissue salts that are indicated. They're indicated for Crohn's disease, such as current false, California magnaporthe and Kelly muriaticum. I gave them tissue salt for college pain, in addition to color synthesis and Boronia it's Cali false false. Sorry, Karan Calcarea false from false California's MagForce and natural Safaricom and also a tissue salts for anemia because he was severely anemic. He was bleeding. He was so pale, you could tell and the tissue salts including column Calcarea for spherical around pulse, California and natural muriaticum So I asked them to just take them you know, with five minutes 10 minutes apart. And just maybe he went through three bottles in just one week because my approach was emergency approach. So at this time I started going on a Pathways remedies with hormone toxicology, I focused on hepatic digestive system pathways for the second protocol. At this time he was that the pain was subsided after the first protocol he said that the pain was subsided. So he has started this digestive hepatic athletes protocol. And also I gave him for intestinal regulations for diarrhea was a steal honey diarrhea for bleeding and indigestion. It was a convalesce including a long aluminum or aluminium or a Janya placentas like Qisas Lycopodium Mercurius Nux vomica, Colombo and sulfur. This is a this is an amazing complex for intestinal regulation, especially in Crohn's disease. So I added as I always do at the gym or therapy on the third protocol, added the general therapy for thoughts for digestion, liver pathways, drainage, including Ribes nigrum, because Curico Tilia tomentosa Vitis vinifera, javelins, ratio Juniperus, Communis and rosemarinus efficiencies you can find in different suppliers you can find a mixture you know combined Gemma therapy medicine together or you can give them just individually and ask the person to mix them together. So I gave them two times a day, morning and evening. And it was practically it was intense treatments. So as you know Gemma therapy is is not a not a herbal medicine is not medicinal plants. These are different system of medicine, and they are prepared according to homeopathic principles dilution. I always add olive oil therapy trace elements because 92% 92% of chronic diseases is caused by mineral deficiency. This is proven so oligo therapy tissue salts is not these are two different minerals in it two different preparations that I would always add to my treatments. I will never miss it. So the third protocol also I add olive oil therapy never a start I will never start detoxification or underage before mineralization because detoxification process it's needs a giant amount of minerals to have a safe, safe detoxification if there is no enough mineral during the detoxification and drainage some people break down so that's why I will never miss a legal elements and tissue salts when I do own toxicology. So I added copper, copper the best trace minerals for intestinal inflammation infections. I added manganese copper for chronic infectious diseases, added zinc for impaired immunity. As we know Crohn's disease is autoimmunity. It's an immune system support. I added selenium for autoimmune disorders for inflammatory disorders. And on also you know selenium and this is super antioxidant as well. So these are the best minerals for Crohn's disease. And also never, never forget that that from the beginning have always designed and nutritional plan for almost all my patients. And but this time for for this person. It was very strict. So I told his wife that you gotta treat your husband as a baby. He He practically doesn't have entire spine. He doesn't have doesn't have digestion digestive system. So treat him like a baby. You know, give him pureed food. Only only green, green vegetables. Stop animal foods because it's heavy for on digestion and practically digestion is so compromised. But the good news is that epithelial tissues, this bound intestinal lining is only five to 10 days to renew. During this two weeks period, I asked them to just treat him like a baby. So it should be easy on digestive system. I gave him a plant based diet no animal food field during pureed green vegetables. Get in vegetable soup, like baby food texture, no solid food for six consecutive weeks. So food restriction was very you know what was hard for them. And I eliminated almost a lot of lot of foods that he used to eat such as nightshades a daily products, wheat products, fried foods. A lot of sweets, sugar, because he was he had sweet, sweet tooth. He was a heavy coffee drinker. And he was the like he loved only fried food as his wife explained to me. So he was on like tea, coffee all the time. tobacco, alcohol and fast. So I asked him no meat and no animal protein for six weeks. Because they're hard on digestion. So they accepted everything and they did everything perfectly. There's the strict diet plan was for three months. I asked him don't have any raw food, because as I said he his digestion was so compromised and sick. So only cooked food and the way that I explained that to them and very small portion. So I also PH balancing food diet I try to educate them on what kind of food they should have not too much of acidic food, more alkaline foods such as green leafy vegetables, because they have they have high mineral. So the foods that have high minerals that are more alkaline, that the foods that are acidic, they have no minerals, so that's why he needed more alkaline foods such as green leafy vegetables. I asked them not to have wheat products but the switch over to brown like organic brown rice bread because he was a bread person so he was having so much bread. He couldn't live without bread, but I asked him to go and they had hard time to find each other in Toronto, but somehow, somewhere they found it and I asked them to toast the you know, double toasted as much as possible. Just go for on dry crackers, no soda, no carbonated water and all those things. No cold or hot drink and only room room temperature fluid to just get you know get give the chance to the epithelial tissue of intestine to renew. So, what green tea chamomile tea penalty was allowed. And so what I always recommend to all my patients go on your blood type diet and genetic diet is the best way. So they accepted that he did the he was blood type O and they actually I gave them the Book of blood type O and they religiously went followed the his blood type.

Speaker 2  1:39:56
So this recovery was so quick in less than five months. quick recovery only with one design protocol. As I mentioned before intestinal renewal cycle is very, very fast. It's just about five to 10 days, or, you know, in some cases even a you know, just eight days now following a day following my treatment correctly. And that's why he recovered very quickly. So, I scheduled him bi weekly for follow up consultations was was on because his wife one of one of the family was the the the thyroid tumor and case that was completely recovered. So as I said, there were a lot almost 45 People from the same family they were my patients. So I kind of give them a little bit more attention and I put them on monitoring plan on a weekly basis with my treatments. And he had a progressive improvement in the first three weeks. No pain, no diarrhea, no bleeding. He said digestion is much better asleep is better energy is better, and generally he feels better. So he went for the blood tests on ultrasound, which I always ask them to go up for their bill or their confidence and the blood test done after six weeks from his initial protocol. With my treatments. The report was lowered inflammatory factor. I don't level higher liver enzymes normal RBC normal white blood cells normal, less inflammatory inflammatory cells detected. Result of altra sound after six weeks from my initial protocol. They found the still tiny scattered intestinal regions but no major lesion. So they brought the letter from the specialists and it said tiniest scattered intestinal lesion after six weeks of treatments. I asked him to continue initial protocol. Follow the same initial protocol without even one relapse for three consecutive months. He's done altra sound again, after three months was normal. No lesions not even tiny scattered were detected complete recovery in less than five months. Crohn's disease never returned to this day. From 2014 to 2024. Now he's 85 years old, no sign of Crohn's disease and is constantly traveling is happy 85 years old man. So but after that, he continues going off allopathic medication drugs with me. Though I had to treat them you know, gradually gradually take him off all the medications. So he went off blood pressure medications, heart medications, cholesterol, triglyceride skin dermatitis medication, and also an antidepressant anti anxiety medication and gradually went off all the above medication under my supervision for recovery from all previous conditions, he reported never gone back on the above allopathic medication today. No signs of Crohn's disease free of all medications. Only one time, time to time is on homeopathic medicine for emergency cases such as cold and flu. Having a healthy and active lifestyle. Working is 85 years but he's still working. He's traveling. And as I mentioned earlier, his entire family and friends or 45 people are my patients. So homeopathy is a gift from nature. These cases are the examples of hundreds of killed cases by my homeopathic treatments. Homeopathy is a genius system of medicine, a scientific and medical art. It follows the natural laws and healing principles. They're super healing and curative. Homeopathy follows in our healing principle and concept of cure and saves lives when you treat the person correctly the disease will be removed automatically. You don't have to fight a disease. You don't have to go after the disease. Just treat the person that has the disease. So by contrast Academy as the partners of homeopathy, Classical Homeopathy, and medical homeopathy, integrative medicine, so we have Nutritional Sciences by cosmetology medical ethics. And we are offering homeopathy, research advance research homeopathy, level one, level two, level three at the bio quantum Academy. You can visit our official website by quantum.ca a lot of informations there and two major events are coming soon. One of them is a certification webinar on core principles of homeopathy on September 27 2024, which is just, you know, two weeks away and also the third international conference. Is award of homeopathy and integrative medicine, past, present and future medicine on November 8, and nine. If you want more information, you can you can always contact us or visit our website by quantum.ca or email us at Academy at play. quantum.ca Thank you so much for your attention everyone.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:36
Thank you doctors.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:36
I hope I did not exhaust you.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:42
Some of us would like like a repeat though. So we can we taking notes furiously.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:52
Any questions?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:53
Anybody have any questions or comments? There was a comment about blood type O is able to eat red meat. And that's the only blood type. Type Oh, yeah. Yeah, you mentioned blood types, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:09
What's the question? Dr. Calafia.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:13
blood type O is the only only blood type that's able to eat red meat according to that that system.

Speaker 2  1:47:19
No blood type B also the blood type B also can have red meat and blood type Oh, so what title can have any kind of meat red meat such as beef, veal and you know, lamb but the lot IP is doing well with lamb. Okay. Great.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:47
Okay, and there is a link here for a study on menopausal homeopathy remedies I pulled it up it's in the chat. It's time gets 6:12pm If you want to find that. And then there's a couple of slideshows about quantum I believe by quantum biophysics or vibrational biophysics. Is an explanation for homeopathy. Homeopathy is a mechanism of action. So there are a few explanations there from some others here. And just as far as the webinar on September 27, it was in this week's link, we had it advertised and there was a link, if you were interested in it on in this week's last week's email, and it'll be I'll have it again next week. And I guess the week after so, so we'll have it we'll have the link. If you're interested in that arm as far as the courses are concerned. They're quite extensive. To get through homeopathy, one, two and three. How long should that take doctors there and just as an example,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:07
we'll get through what sorry

Bill Clearfield  1:49:09
your your the your homeopathy courses one two and three.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:17
Homeopathy What do you mean diploma programs?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:20
Yeah, the diploma programs.

Speaker 2  1:49:21
Oh, diploma program. So level one, level two level three. So level three is for the ones that they have homeopathic background, they already have homeopathy background. So it depends in normal they can finish it in 12 months or 12 to 24 months. So there is no restriction. The one thing that cannot finish the diploma program less than a year. But after that they can extend that you know two or three years. There is no you know restrictions. But if somebody can finish it earlier, they can't finish it so but the course that's a program, but the course is normally 10 hours. The all the courses about quantum Academy are 10 hours, including the q&a, including the discussion. So in but in webinars that we're having on certification webinar are having September 27 actually is a compact kind of the 10 hours becomes four hours. So we're going to cover almost everything in one full complete course in just four hours. So that's why the certification is equal to one course. One will course

Bill Clearfield  1:50:55
yeah, I mean is there is there a cost to join.

Speaker 2  1:51:01
The cost? Is $150 or something. I don't know. It's just it's on the website, I guess. But I think they decided because the webinar and the conference have their people working on it right. So and I think they decided to have a group rate. If there are three people, you know that they have some discount if they're five if they're 10. So there is there is a group rate as well. So

Bill Clearfield  1:51:33
so there's a group rate for our group, right. You tell them you're coming from our group, right? Okay.

Speaker 2  1:51:42
Anybody says good doctor coming from Dr. Clearfield they get 50%

Bill Clearfield  1:51:50
Hey, girl, how was that? That was pretty good. Now I'm gonna work on her for another 50% We'll do the best we can

Unknown Speaker  1:51:59
to get to know already so know

Speaker 2  1:52:03
what to do. The reason I designed the am I often I like to offer this kind of webinars because we the receiving a lot of inquiries for homeopathic diploma a lot. But when I interview them, they're not good candidates. That I mean, not good candidates. I mean, they need to to have a little bit of knowledge prior to coming to diploma program. The reason is here, we don't we don't want to do business with anybody. We want to educate people. And we don't want to throw them in the ocean without knowing how to swim. So it's a preparation I like to be like it for example. If you have a collaborator in Middle East they just joined by condom Academy, their huge community in the Middle East, from, you know, Emirates in Iran. Turkey the joining us for you know to be part of, you know, diploma program, but before that I told them before signing up any students for homeopathic diploma please bring everybody to the webinar. Let them assess themselves as well after getting the knowledge, but it's not the basic knowledge. It's almost complete knowledge that they know they should know prior to coming to the diploma program and then they can become assistant they can evaluate themselves. And that's the reason for the webinars. So I think it's a great way of evaluating yourself before jumping into the diploma program because diploma is a serious program, you have to go you have to study all the universe and you have to go through research and you don't want to waste your time if it's not for you. But if you come to the webinars for just investing four hours and a little bit of contribution, then you will assess yourself. You're Are you a good candidate for this. The reason is because I'm 20 some years ago when I went to homeopathic school. I am an I came from allopathic background too. And it was like we all were crying at the school. At the class. We didn't understand what the professor is saying. From contra concept you're coming to similar concept. It's completely extreme opposites of each other and a you you are here to understand and nobody told us nobody would know you couldn't ask questions. These APS or students say why did you come? And as I said it was like the throwing us in an ocean without knowing how to swim. And I don't want that for four people. So I don't want anybody experienced the challenges that I experienced. So I want to make make educational life easier for people especially homeopathy. Because it's the art our thing to do, but it's the most rewarding. The most rewarding anybody can do in their lifetime. So but it's a preparation webinar is a preparation and

Bill Clearfield  1:55:49
two things one, what time is the webinar?

Speaker 2  1:55:51
The webinar starts at 10am Eastern Time, Eastern Time. So 3pm So we say all I'm always going to be you know, I open open the floor

Bill Clearfield  1:56:10
longer Yes.

Speaker 2  1:56:13
I open the floor I was you know earlier and now with the stairway much longer so if they have any questions,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:21
yeah, okay, and speaking of questions, Dr. Nereo has some questions from online folks. Go ahead. You're up

Speaker 3  1:56:31
that department and great presentation some questions for you. The presentation is kind of noted that there are conditions that for sure. We'll be involving prescription medicines like for your stroke patients and also your Crohn's disease patient of using steroids. In your approach. What is your what are your thoughts in relation to combining homeopathy and prescription medicines?

Speaker 2  1:57:01
Okay, um, as I mentioned on Chrome, for example, Crohn's case, right? On cortisone or a steroid homeopathy is not going to work is not going to work. It's just an I'm not here to do business with patients. So it just I told them clearly that you still want to be on an injection. Homeopathy is gonna. It's gonna get exhausted. You know, it might work but again, it gets exhausted and we don't want people having a wrong, you know, kind of perception about homeopathy. But again, if I have another, I have a couple of Crohn's disease. Actually in the United States at this present moment. They did not want to go off their injection, the diffusion. So, I am working with them through the patients working with the doctors, so to reduce the dosage of the diffusion of the of the I don't know, it says it's a form of injection, whatever. And also, you know, kind of extend the duration instead of one week. Make it six weeks sorry four weeks makes it six weeks and also reduce the dosage of the medication. And the doctors actually doing and are so happy about that. If my patient reported that their doctors agree. I never met their doctors, but I am communicating with them. Through the patients. What I asked them they said that they reported to the doctor and they agreed. So now the follow up is coming actually next two weeks, and we'll see the result but the improvement is amazing. Their improvement is amazing. So but again, the oral medications that went off on their you know on their willingly they went off but they injection they couldn't go off and I cannot I cannot force anybody to do that. But I said if you don't, if you don't ask your doctors to extend the duration of the two injection and also reduce the dosage. Homeopathy is gonna stop working

Speaker 3  1:59:41
right. So yeah, that's That's a good thought. In my experience, one of the more common questions that I get from patients would be if they're on a medication and they're started on homeopathy, would it affect their current prescription medicines? So what I answer them about this is definitely not homeopathy definitely will will definitely not alter the specific medicines that they're on. So a good example would be that stroke patients are usually in conventional medicine. These patients are going to be on statins on blood pressure medicines, and one concern that they will have for us would be, of course, would they need those adjustments on the specific medications that they're on? So one thing that I've seen and I always do, for example, detox remedies on these patients, and I add these homeopathic remedies really and no interactions noted after the years that I've done it. So that's definitely something that I guess, clinicians who are not experienced in this field should probably know. I mean, if we're talking about though, we're not talking high doses of homeopathic remedies here. Of course, as you said, low doses would be assessed addressing more of the physical aspects of these patients. That's why it's it's something worth knowing, especially for the ones who are combining or not pure homeopaths, but also allopathic in a way and also homeopathic on the side. So just just just some thoughts here. Another one would be on your, I think your first international conference, there were some doctors from India who were using constitutional remedies using computer programs, and they punch it in and they'll find a specific remedy in relation to that. Is that something that you're doing as well?

Speaker 2  2:01:32
I'm very Hanuman. Yes. I have two radars but never use them. Because material medical is close to my heart. And I know all the pollack wrists medicines and they stick with Pollack wrists. And I don't know I don't use radar. I use the Pentagon the students but not necessarily, you know, I need it. I say I love I love Materia Medica to just go and you know read it and the medicine so very conventional kind of conservative homeopath. That's how some, you know, mostly in India they do it. I don't know why but Canada. It did not, you know, doesn't have a place. So but again, if you if you want to easy way to find the medicine, but again, radar, one danger of raider is if you you enter wrong rubrics, it's going to give you wrong medicine. So, so if you have the right rubrics on your own, so you can easily find that in Materia Medica. You don't need radar. But radar, you know draw to two wrong rubrics, entering two radar that gives you three the first three rounds medicine so

Speaker 3  2:03:16
these programs are not cheap. When when you subscribe to them or buy I think one of the clinicians in here is Dr. Burgess. He probably has he I spoke to him one time and he uses these programs and nothing beats going old school right especially if you're pretty familiar with Materia Medica. Definitely, you can just do it manually. Some of the newbies usually go for the the program ones. And again, I can't blame them. It's definitely tough. You need experience to use constitutional remedies. And this question I think was pertaining to Arnica. But understanding that I think they saw this in your chronic stroke patient. And most of the time Arnica is known for, of course, acute conditions and you used it in the situation is your first remedy because of bruising in the brain and bleeding in the brain. And the I think the question there was, why was it used and most of the time, most, if you're going to be using a constitutional remedy, it's usually that's going to be now more the chronic approach. But for the acute approaches, it's usually more for yes, the immediate problems easy like immediate leading, but yes, on your side. I think that was the question. Why was Arnica used on a chronic stroke patient? I think there the question was coming from the fact that Arnica is usually famously used in acute conditions, but I think I know the answer, but let's let's take it from you.

Speaker 2  2:04:53
Article is an emergency remedy, for sure. But the stroke patients after three years still is what is an emergency situation. Was not he was not cured. He was not healed. It was still in an emergency situation. And actually worse. So and Arnica was posted the indicated remedy for him. So when when the body is not heal, still, the body is an emergency. So our MCI applies in all the cases that are not already healed. So yeah. Arnica is the first one, the first one to call for stem cells. Because the depth Deathstroke patients they need millions of stem cells for for repair, so the only one that can do it is Arnica. Thank God How come the other remedies such as hamamelis because of the you know, the bleeding you know, during the stroke and all the on the medicine that are indicated I use them, but the very first one is obika. So the same thing with the lucky infertility though, I don't know if you last time Dr. Norio, you were here. So like, I went through the case of infertility. 11 years of you know, trying and still to me, she, she was she was in an emergency situation I gave her ignatia Amara ignatia Amara is an acute grief remedy. But then I switch her over to the chronic grief not Natrum muriaticum The same thing with a stroke patient I gave them Arnica. Then I moved them to calcium. So, again, when the body is not healed, and the body is in either the same situation or worse is calling for emergency medicine. And the comments about Dr. Mario, the comment about your previous you mentioned about the coexisting of homeopathic medicine, prescription drugs, prescription allopathic and there is no interaction so in terms of getting into the body, there is no interaction whatsoever because homeopathic medicine, does not go to digestion, and has nothing to do with the chemistry and that prescription drugs it's going to go to digestion is to be absorbed and goes to the bloodstream and blah blah. But when it's coming to the time of a simulation and healing, the interaction is started. There the problem starts there. That confusing, the vital force, it's like homeopathy is on loading and prescription without reloading again. Right. So homeopathy is trying to activate prescriptions or are trying to suppressed in order to manage it cannot manage symptoms without suppressing the disharmony you have to suppress disharmony in order to manage it. That homeopathy on the other hand is trying to activate the healing power. It's the opposite of suppression. So the problem starts here. And on Plus, we're trying to the you know, open up the blockages with a hormone toxicology or pathway just to cleanse the body. Again, prescription drug is intoxicating the body so that the problem is starts here. But the best way so far that I had to you know to manage is to reduce the dosage of prescription drugs during coming up segment treatments. Try to reduce it. That's That's my comment on your previous question.

Speaker 3  2:09:30
All right, well, that's all on my end. Thank you.

Speaker 2  2:09:34
Yes, I know you're in a hard position. Dr. Norio and also Dr. Cliff build medical doctors are in hard positions for sure. And one, on one hand, you cannot get them off. You know, prescription drugs because for any reasons, on the other hand, you want to help them to activate their healing power on their own. And definitely is not an easy thing. But there's only one formula either they go off or you you try to taper them off. Then it's the best.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:12
Okay. All right, any last word, Dr. Zirin.

Speaker 2  2:10:19
Last word idea. I'm just trying to see if I know anybody in today's seminar. Okay, Dr. Tom is here. Oh, Heather is here. Let me see Dr. Itami. Hello. Hello.

Speaker 1  2:10:48
The beginning Yes, thank you. I also will bring my friend from Indonesia. Dr. Sri. There is a lot of Dr. Indonesia here. We are still learning about homeopathy and hope in our country have registration. At least so amazing

Speaker 2  2:11:08
to see you Dr. Clearfield. Dr. automne is our collaborator from Indonesia that we are having 12 medical doctors graduating from her institution. Wow. So she is Yes. Amazing. Amazing. Great. Thank you so much for joining Dr. Itami. So thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:35
Thank you, Melvin.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:41
Just to let you know where you're every Tuesday night, and hopefully, you can join us again and maybe even present for us again. I'm always looking for somebody. All of our previous programs are at aos or d.org/webinars or on YouTube at Clearfield Medical Group, you'll find all our videos and we're starting to catalogue them and and get because we have four years of like really great information and we're trying to extract that and put it into some sort of system that we can use so so please join us Darcie Itami anytime. And if we get your contact information, maybe we can even have you on for some presentations because we were attracting quite an international crowd here. So we have every week we've been having a big crowd for folks from the Philippines. Our friend from the from Austria, her son's with getting specialized treatment in Poland this week, so she won't be on Bucha hopefully she'll be talking to us and a relative of my my lady friend came to visit last week and she's a PhD cell biologist, biology student in Paris and she's not on tonight but she she's going to be on with us also. So we're tracking quite a quite a large audience. And And if anybody you know send me it send me an email to my email address if you're not on and I'll try to get everything out of you can get get it there. I think I just sent I sent the which we'll call it programs that were to get our things just to one person. So here they are. Okay, so here's aos thirty.org/webinars for all our previous programs also on YouTube, Clearfield Medical Group. We have about four years worth of programming on there. Like I said, and if you're anybody's interested, please You know, when presenting please let me know. Like I say every week bring one friend we will double our census. If everybody can bring one friend. Next week we have Dr. Jeff block one. You know, he's one of our cannabis experts. He's going to give us an update. There's been he's in Florida and there's some big doings down there with cannabis. I may or may not be here it's my grandbabies. Two of the oldest ones birthdays next week I'll be outside of Detroit. I'll probably be on if not I'm sure I can get Joel and Dr. Nario to to host it here. So we will be here but I may or may I probably be one that I may or may not be on. So remember one time I was there and I ended up having to host it off my telephone I think it just cut off halfway through so we try not to do that. Anyway, everybody who's here please, thank you so much. And the folks from the Indonesia really Welcome. Please come back. And of course, our Filipino friends. We want you to you know to join us. Always. Also so and Dr. Nereo. Maybe it's too late tonight. Give us a little summary of the the conference that you had in the Philippines and where you were the keynote speaker. So where should we say that for now?

Speaker 3  2:15:37
Yeah, we can do it next time. But yeah, just just to tell everybody that I had a great time. The Filipinos were really hospitable. And all three days, I was speaking and I actually lost almost my voice at the end of the conference. And to cap it off. I got guested in a TV program. And they interviewed me about India integrative medicine. So that kind of spreads the word out there for everyone, for us to be heard and be known. That's why I enjoy my time over there and thank you very much I get to elaborate a little bit more next week.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:12
Where are you for it or against it by the way?

Unknown Speaker  2:16:15
Oh, I'm in the middle now. I gotta sorta I don't know about integrity.

Unknown Speaker  2:16:21
I just sorta

Speaker 3  2:16:25
know we fight for it. We stand for it. For sure.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:28
Doctors Erin must be tired. She didn't even smile.

Speaker 2  2:16:34
I just want to say hello to Dr. Fabulous. Dr. Farber, thank you so much for joining us tonight.

Unknown Speaker  2:16:40
Hi to Hello to everyone. Hello, hello. Thank you for this workshop. I enjoyed it every moment. Thank you so much.

Speaker 2  2:16:49
You're welcome. Dr. FairVote actually is going to join our webinar and already registered and also she's gonna join our diploma program. Hopefully soon and thank you so much for joining us.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:07
Thank you. Thank

Speaker 2  2:17:08
you my country macadam II is getting

Bill Clearfield  2:17:14
one last one last thing Dr. Dr. Quinn, you had your appointment book on the screen upside down but we couldn't read we could see writing there but we couldn't read what the appointments were was there anything important that we should know about? This was one screen? Yes. I have an appointment with the president coming up. Well, no, there's nothing important what is important is being here you know, it's not nothing is important as being here. Right and Johnny is still on John Still on now. I guess he's going okay. So okay, so we'll get we'll get an update on what he's up to. I know they had the you had you want to have anything you want to talk about. You had Saturday you had a phone meeting about your research group. Yeah, it was kind of a kind of like a kickoff thing. We're first of all very excited about everything because of the like minded people here. And we're looking at ways and different things to research out and whatever using whatever. I guess it's a means of funds or whatever that we can kind of like a like. My thought is it's mostly like a homegrown type of thing that will do research into areas that we know can benefit people everybody hears is pretty adept at their trading of patients with various things. And if we can kind of get it going as a research type of format or platform, we're probably going to be able to have more bang for our buck as it as it were. It's still just in the nascent stages where you got everybody together, though. The one guy that was on here is Dr. Benza Venya. He's an MD But he's also a judge, and he's crazy. That's why I like him, but he and I guess, John, we're were at a conference years ago in Sri Lanka, in the same room learning the same things and they just found that out. So there's a there's a great synergy with the great minds there and what they what they have for us but again, it was just in the beginning, and I think John invited a whole bunch of people to participate. So we'll just keep going and keep everybody posted and everybody's invited to participate if they'd like to. I mean, you know, people like Dr. Zirin and all that with all of the good stuff that's being done. Gosh, it would be really nice if we could do something that grabs the attention, shall we say of those that are stuck in that model that think that the only thing works is a double blind study or placebo controlled? Something like that, when my thought is if we put together some type of studies like this, that maybe will will garner a different type of tension and there won't be people who will ask questions like, Isn't homeopathy is that voodoo, you know, or is that a placebo? You know, if we had studies that fit more of their model, they might pay more attention and the bottom line is, patients will get better and they won't be told by people that they hold in high esteem. Let's say the allopathic model, those guys that poopoo everything else, that they think that what they're doing is the end all and if they don't know it, it doesn't exist. And that's kind of what I think we're I don't want to say fighting but but we're trying to win them over. Let's put it that way. Okay. By the way, the answer is is homeopathy a placebo? The answer is you should tell them as of course it is. You wouldn't be interested. Right? That's what they want to hear. Right? Yeah, exactly. And I sent I sent you guys that little girl get upset doctors. She can see that little slide because I to run into this. You know when we compounded things we put in homeopathic products into standard IVs. You know, kind of running under the radar of everybody else, the FDA and all that we had wonderful success with that. But all the physicians would say well, what is that? Why are you doing that? What is homeopathy? Why put that in products and you know, I had to come up with a whole presentation on why it was rudimentary, but at least I was trying to make it simple for them to understand.

Speaker 2  2:22:01
Yeah, that's why that's why we are scheduling these webinars, you know, like 12 webinars throughout the year to intuit to explain homeopathy scientifically to doctors. Yeah, yeah. are lost. They are in 111 hand homeopathy works you know my practice is the is the what you call is example of it, but on the other hand, they don't have much of scientific backup, right. So that's why you know, we started doing this, this kind of webinars is going to help especially doctors, they have questions. So you understand what what and after that they just say, Well, what did you say placebo? In a blender? Questions.

Bill Clearfield  2:22:54
Yeah, that's, that's crazy. If you have a minute, I can share my first experience with homeopathy. It's a very embarrassing story, but if you got two minutes, it might be worth it. At the University of Southern California, we were not taught anything about this. We were taught allopathic medicine, and if there's a condition there's a drug, okay. And so I thought it was a little bit odd. Well, the embarrassing part here and it's just a quick one minute story is I don't know if you know what a thrombosed hemorrhoid is, but it's like a watermelon has been shoved up there. And it hurts like crazy. So I went to a proctologist who I refer to as the rear admiral. And they have this treatment for you where you get on a table you bend over, they stick a huge needle directly into this thrombosed part and fill it with with lidocaine. to numb you. Then they slice it, then they stitch you up, and then they send you on your way. Okay, this is ungodly, painful. All right, it happened one time and I thought, oh, okay, wait a minute. Sure. I stopped lifting weights what what happened? What what? Why am I getting this? And they said, no, no, just do what you want to do. Almost a year later, the same thing happened. And this guy said to me, well, having this done once a year is not so bad. You want to be on my end, right? This hurts. This is ungodly, painful. My best friend who was a pharmacist and a chiropractor and practice homeopathy, it happened again, and he gave me something I will never forget these little things called hemorrhoid 48 Right pack. And I started taking those things. And of course, it happened on a Friday so I couldn't get in to see the rear admiral till the next week. And I started taking those things. And on Monday morning, I canceled my appointment. And I called him up and I go What in the hell is this stuff? This homeopathy is something we didn't learn about, and I'll be damned if this isn't better than what we learned. So that was my first experience right there. From that day on, but I was a believer. No, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:25
Sorry to share. Experience.

Speaker 5  2:25:29
You know, it's not like a cold sore going away, right? I mean, this is critical.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:34
It is yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:37
Yeah. So that's, that's a good way to send everybody off for the week.

Speaker 2  2:25:43
So often question the question that I am often asked this, what was your goal I said that want to convert as many Allah pets as possible in my lifetime. So Dr. Curran is well you're one of them.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:03
Oh, yeah. Pretty much everybody here is a recovering allopath right.

Speaker 2  2:26:10
You want to recover first and you have to go to recovery. Don't get me wrong. I don't have to has its own existence, right. Yeah, we

Bill Clearfield  2:26:20
want to keep it over there. It has its place and we wanted to I wanted to stay there.

Speaker 2  2:26:28
trauma care emergencies situation, you know, handful and infectious diseases or something like 10% of human cases, but they have no solution for chronic diseases which the whole world is suffering from. The whole world is suffering from chronic diseases. How many acute conditions Did you get it in your lifetime? How many accidents do you get?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:51
Yeah, well, hopefully not many.

Speaker 2  2:26:54
Yeah, how many? How many? How many traumas you know No. But chronic diseases is just this epidemic. It's just unfortunately they have no solution. But to just intoxicating, the bodies and and we are here to fix it. The only way that we can fix it is just to convert allopathic, the homeopaths. Yeah, which we are doing it so they told me that is difficult. It can it's hard as I said. We'll do it. And now Dr. Tony is the doctor Tom is in the conference now. 1212 medical doctors from her institution that started by account of Academy are graduating they're all medical doctors. Okay, you have another four medical doctors are graduates.

Bill Clearfield  2:27:51
Now Now we know where to go when the when the AOA runs us out of the country?

Speaker 2  2:27:57
No, I mean it just short period of time. We did That's right. Imagine the next 10 years the next one years. So we're bringing all of that

Bill Clearfield  2:28:10
because you're doing great.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:13
already with us.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:16
But you're doing great. Thank

Speaker 2  2:28:19
you. You too. And I want to thank Dr. Clearfield again. For he's been doing an awesome job. I don't think it's you. You have been doing this for 45 years. Imagine not not giving up.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:37
Maybe Maybe I'll get it down right one of these days.

Speaker 2  2:28:41
And why don't you emerge with the why quantum Academy make it easier for you

Bill Clearfield  2:28:47
so that would be way out of character for me.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:51
So no, with the webinars.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:53
I have to do everything the hard way. So okay, we're gonna we're gonna say good night. I think everybody have a great you know, it's almost 1030 on the east coast. So we'll see it we'll see you again next week. Same time, same station again, we'll have Dr. Block, we're gonna get an update on cannabis and, and all of everything that's involved with that. Good night everybody. And I'll try and get everybody's email so the the new folks get get or let me let you know what we're up to. Okay, so again, doctors Aaron, thank you so much. I can't can't thank you enough. And of course we're going to be calling again. Somebody wrote in here that they tried to get on your on the website to register for your, the webinar and they couldn't find it. So we had it in our email this week. And just so just check on it. Okay.

Speaker 2  2:29:49
It is just on that, you know, right beside international conference.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:55
It was it was in the email announcing, you know, this, this and I'll have it in for the next two weeks until till the till the till the webinar. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:03
Thank you, everyone.

Bill Clearfield  2:30:05
Thank you. Good. Thank

Speaker 2  2:30:06
you, Dr. Calavera. Thank you, Joe. Thank you, Dr. ordinario. Thank you, everyone. Take care next time. Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai