Bill Clearfield  01:31
Oh, Dr Cano or Dr Burgess, Hey, Bill. So am I? Am I persona non grata after my little meltdown on Saturday, no,

Speaker 1  01:41
no, beautiful thing, man,

Speaker 2  01:46
no, you told the truth. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:50
yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, I understand John, you you haven't been well and all, but you know the rest of them, you uh, so we've, we've rejiggered the schedule so we don't have too many open too much open time.

Speaker 1  02:10
So good. And you and I need to have a talk sometime kind of personal, and only just us, because I want to talk to you about some money stuff, but I don't want people to know the business. So have a talk with you sometime. And are you? Are you? Are you planning on voting for a board or anything, doing any board activity there in Reena? Board

Bill Clearfield  02:33
activity? Yes, I'm hoping somebody will vote me out. So that's somebody else have this joy.

Speaker 1  02:43
That's that's exactly what I was thinking. So I know Dr Nario

Bill Clearfield  02:48
is. Dr Nario would be the perfect, a perfect person for this, yeah, and I think Dr Tano would also be the perfect person,

Speaker 1  02:59
hey, but we have to have a do. Oh, that can be our buddy in Nevada. We do have one osteopath, right? Where's that? No, gosh, my brain bill, who's saying at the meeting?

Bill Clearfield  03:16
Oh, well, we have more than one.

Speaker 1  03:21
No, I thought you only had one singer plays guitar. He's our buddy. What's his name? Oh, Bruce, yeah. Bruce Vaughn, yeah. So he's my chopped liver.

Bill Clearfield  03:34
I still have a do degree, you know, you know, they didn't take that away from me. They took away my, my, you know, medical specialty, but they didn't take away the do yet, yet. Anyway, I think they're working on

Speaker 1  03:47
it. Yeah, I I shut down my business after 40 years, but I kept my DEA and my medical license, so if anybody needs it, we can use it.

Speaker 2  03:58
Nobody can use your license. Doctor Burgess. Yeah, I wish it was transferable. You can change it and give it to somebody else, but you can't

Bill Clearfield  04:10
be an idea. Dr Tano, I'd be more than happy to hand it over to you. I hand it over to you the way it was handed to

Speaker 2  04:15
me. Well, yeah, so you made me good do the research. One takes on this one.

Bill Clearfield  04:23
Yeah, so, well, fortunately, we have a little bit more money. Well, we'll see. We'll see what will happen after the end of next week. We see we have, we have anything left. So we have a lot of sponsors. Actually, we got three new sponsors today. Interesting, that's cool. It'd be it'd be nice to have more attendees, but we got three new sponsors today. Yeah, back they think somebody's bringing

Speaker 3  05:03
cannabis, huh? Cannabis, cannabis parties there?

Bill Clearfield  05:07
No, no, no. I don't know about that. That'll be private. Somebody's bringing, I don't know, Marlene Scott, somebody's bringing some gravity chair or something. Oh, nice. So I don't even know if we have room for art for it, so we'll make room. I said. I said, we'll make room.

Speaker 4  05:29
Probably me, although it's not an anti gravity chair, it's actually a light can't think of what it

Bill Clearfield  05:37
is exactly. Somebody from Florida is that you, that you might

Speaker 4  05:43
see so, but I know she was the one talked to somebody about getting some chairs space for the zero gravity chairs.

Bill Clearfield  05:53
Yeah, zero gravity. I don't know yet my, you know, my, by this time of the night, my brain is a little finished. So if you don't know what that means, it's mixed up.

Unknown Speaker  06:08
So what about our entertainment? Is that

Bill Clearfield  06:13
I'm still it's still pending. So no Friday nights all set. Oh yeah, Friday nights, all sets. Thursday night. I'm hopeful

Unknown Speaker  06:24
you're not gonna do your monologs.

Bill Clearfield  06:27
I can do, I can do, I can do jokes. You know that, right your acting class, you're this crowd, this crowd. I mean, I mean, I'm really good at lawyer jokes, so that's kind of my specialty. So

Speaker 1  06:39
I want to throw something in, just because we haven't said it for a while. Twice, you guys mentioned you had a morning without breakfast. I think that's filled in. Then I talked to Gino, and he was willing to help. And I think Mel and you were going to talk to him. He just wanted to know what you want. He can give you good food. Just tell him what you

Bill Clearfield  07:00
want. Oh, no, we have the breakfast we were we're talking when I say without breakfast, that means we didn't have a sponsor. So the sponsors are going to be the breakfast. Are going to be doing 30 minute non CME. Okay, not non CME. Talk. So, you know, talk about their their their businesses,

Speaker 3  07:19
Doctor Bill. I forwarded you the menu for grateful gardens already. So, I mean, you can definitely look at it, and that's the site.

Bill Clearfield  07:26
All right, don't we need to go over there and try it out. I don't know

Speaker 3  07:29
if that was part of the package, but I can ask.

Bill Clearfield  07:32
All right, I got you got a message from Kevin that Thursday morning, there's still a breakfast is still open for a vendor.

Speaker 3  07:41
Oh, I thought that was gotten by David Conn

Bill Clearfield  07:46
Okay, let me, let me, let me get back to him and you, you let the folks in. Okay, okay, step on here yet.

Unknown Speaker  07:56
Let me see. I see him,

Bill Clearfield  08:03
yes. And more importantly, his mom around,

Speaker 3  08:05
yes, oh, there's Mom, there's Mom. How's she going to do? Pull Ups there

Bill Clearfield  08:09
we were. Yeah, we weren't. We weren't going to let we're going to have him. And we've had him on enough, mom, but when he said that you were going to come on that that's the that was the hook.

Speaker 5  08:18
Oh, good God, I'd like to talk.

Unknown Speaker  08:22
That's why everybody's here for

Bill Clearfield  08:24
mom. That's why we're here. We're here to hear here. So you're just the moderator. Stuff on

Unknown Speaker  08:34
testing. Okay, there

Unknown Speaker  08:36
it is, like a full on studio.

Bill Clearfield  08:41
There you are. You're serious about this

Speaker 5  08:45
nice too, neon, I hear myself. There we go. You can hear yourself. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  08:54
Alright. So we got yeah Saturday, Saturday we have yeah and, and Thursday, if I

Speaker 6  09:08
can actually hear myself, dusting, oh, that's way better now I can hear myself, yeah. How do you like this studio? Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  09:14
it looks great. I mean, you are, you are what I what I had hoped to be 30 years ago and never got around to doing it. So, so you're like living embodiment here. So I had all these great ideas, and they never got around to it. Look at that.

Unknown Speaker  09:27
Yeah, we look like we're doing this in our garage.

Bill Clearfield  09:32
I got my Eagles covering my back door here. I mean, so and you got tried and Melvin, you have a green screen.

Speaker 6  09:45
I know I'm trying to increase the quality of our recordings here. I'm going to try to record on the computer here, and then I'm going to record separately on a camera. I'm going to record audio

Bill Clearfield  09:56
separately. Stefan's running his own TV studio

Unknown Speaker  10:01
that looks

Speaker 6  10:03
great. That's right. I think who wanted to do this? It was harshfield, or somebody wanted to create a studio. Or Mike Boomer, you've been talking to me about this for a long time. Yeah, you got to have a studio. You got to create, increase your production quality. I think our lighting could be better. But what would you like with the lighting? I can reduce the intensity. If it's a little bit too hot, we've washed out. I'm

Unknown Speaker  10:23
not I'm not sure if you can,

Unknown Speaker  10:25
I can see what's in here. Hold on. Let me zoom

Speaker 7  10:26
in here. Hey, Stefan, Richard, how are you? You have to center the camera. You're okay, center,

Unknown Speaker  10:35
that's true.

Unknown Speaker  10:38
He goes to center.

Bill Clearfield  10:42
Yeah, mom. Mom needs to move over just a little bit to her left at this point, the full iron you know, thing you know, in its, in its, in its all its glory. But if it's too much trouble, Mom, leave it alone. Don't worry. No one's going to notice anyway. You know that, you know the frozen snowball theory? Yeah. I mean, it looks, it looks great, but you notice frozen so we move mom over just just a hair, so it's, it's, it's, even that looks perfect now, yeah, right. But you know what the frozen snowball theory is, right? Stefan, this came from tug McGraw. Tim McGraw's father, who was a baseball pitcher for the Phillies. In the end, in 10,000 years, the Earth is the sun's going to burn out. The earth was going to freeze up. And whether my Stefan's mom is perfectly centered in front of that. That that neon sign probably won't mean a hill of beans at that point.

Unknown Speaker  11:47
So it's a nice sign.

Bill Clearfield  11:51
That's the frozen snowball.

Speaker 6  11:52
We might do a little bit of a might do a little screen share as well tonight. Okay, so reviewing some of the things to give us a little bit of a

Bill Clearfield  12:01
gun. So are we going to do our we're going to do our little introduction here with Dr Nario. Do you have your Yeah, sure. Week here. Okay, so get

Speaker 3  12:13
it on so we can get the show going. Okay, so today we're taking a quick peek about our important or maybe an important dive into something most clinicians completely miss. So vitamin D doesn't just support bones, immunity and mood, it also acts as a CYP 450 enzyme inducer. So our favorite nonchalantly we give to our patients healthy supplement might be quietly altering how their prescription medications behave, especially for the ones who are taking polypharmacy. So here's what we know. So vitamin D activates the vitamin D receptor, BDR, as we call it, then up regulates multiple CYP, 450, detox enzymes, especially these are just jargo numbers for you guys, but three, a, 422, c9, and 2b, six. So these enzymes metabolize more than 60% of all prescription medications. So when a patient increases their vitamin D from low to optimize, which we always like an integrative medicine around 80 or 90 or starts high doses of supplementation, the liver can clear certain drugs faster. Essentially, the vitamin D says to the liver, Hey, wake up buddy. Let's clean house here. So when C, O, I, p3, a, four or 229, t9, gets induced, serum drug levels can drop, and sometimes that's the problem. So drugs that usually gets affected, statins, especially a tervasin and simva stands so we'll be having a faster clearance and reduced lipid lowering effect. Calcium channel blockers like amlodipine, Delta may lead to reduced blood pressure control. Benzos, midazolam, triazolam, patients may feel they don't work anymore, and steroids such as prednisone, enhance metabolism, thus reducing the anti inflammatory effect. So these are the dangerous one. Anti epileptics, phenytoin, carbamazepine, vitamin D, lowers drug levels. Well, these drugs lower vitamin D, so a perfect storm sends also some HIV, protease inhibitors. Vitamin D may reduce therapeutic levels, and also the odgwdog, Warfarin or the rat poison. And it's two c9 induction may induce INR problems, and in our hormone world, oral contraceptives, such as ethanol, estradiol based, they actually lower down their efficacy when you have high levels of vitamin D. So clinical Pearl here is if the patient is a narrow therapeutic index, medication always re evaluate dosing when vitamin D is increased or corrected. So most CYP inducing effects kicks in when levels rise around 40 to 50 and especially when patients take high dose supplements, such as 5000 to 10,000 international units per day. So this is what we do as integrative medical medicine doctors. So we need to watch out. That doesn't mean vitamin D is dangerous. It means we need to think like pharmacologists. So a study of braselowski et al, osteoporosis, 2012 demonstrated functional CYP through a four up regulation. Once 2025, oh, vitamin D levels normalize above 40 nanograms per mils, starts to show these specific effects. So when optimizing vitamin D, check drug interactions as the patient is on any CYP, three, a, four, two, c9, metabolized medications, reassess symptoms or drug efficacy after increasing vitamin D, and also document changes in blood pressure, sedation, INR and lipid levels when you're on the specific medicine. So remember, Vitamin D is not just a sunshine vitamin it's a tiny biochemical DJ, remixing your patient's medication playlist, if something suddenly stops working, Don't just blame aging. Blame CYP induction. So vitamin D, we like it to be used at the Swiss Army knife for everything, but watch out for these specific conditions.

Bill Clearfield  15:50
Okay, and last week at ammg, we heard, I think I might have mentioned it last week, the Coimbra

Unknown Speaker  15:58
protocol for the Yeah, vitamin

Bill Clearfield  16:00
D for autoimmune disease. So I'm still doing some research on that one, so maybe we'll have a talk on that somewhere along the line too. I've actually made contacts with a lot of new speakers coming up in the new year. So we're going nice, some exciting, some exciting new things to go on. But should I talk about the conference now, or just let Stefan do his thing? So real quick, we are nine days away from the Congress of medical excellence for 5.0 and we need you here. The schedule has been rearranged a little bit so that we have some more in house speakers. You know, those who are regulars know pretty much. Know everybody. Dr Shallenberger, Dr Halasa, Dr zvinia, Dr Quinn, Dr Narro, Dr Burgess, Dr Thomas levy is will be speaking for three hours on the only cause of disease. He's a classic homeopath, as is Dana Ullman. On Saturday, we have a couple of other speakers that are I have two new ones that have come on board, and we'll put them, we'll get their bios up as soon, as soon as possible. Dr Gersh, Dr Swidan, or two giants in the hormone world. And you would pay a lot of money, you know, $2,500 for a weekend to hear them speak, and we have them for a lot less. We need people in house, in Reno and also, and it's also online, the 20 ama CME credits. And we usually, you know, usually have a good time. You know, it's kind of the old Gersh getting back together. And we really need you to step up, everybody, to step up and participate the online. If you're far away and you can't make it into into Reno online isn't that expensive, and it really helps us out. So so so please, you know, before you sign off tonight, please sign up for something here. And because we're we're getting down to the home stretch here, and we're tomorrow, we're doing our practice run through it at the hotel for advanced homeopathic assistants and nurses. It's only $199 students, 90 and interns, 95 military to 95 lay people to 95 retired physicians, 395 and a little bit more. For other physicians, we have one sponsor breakfast still available, and that is on Thursday, and if you're if you have you know things that you'd like to display. So please, please support us, because you know we've been doing these Tuesday night conferences since May, since October of 2020 We've never taken a cent, although it does, you know, cost us in time and treasure and a little bit in money, especially for the zoom. And you've been getting a lot of a lot of great content, if you're doing the AMA C credits, that money does not go to us. So we've actually earned nothing in the last three years. So please, please support us. And with that, we have a real treat tonight. So I'm really looking forward to this. So Stefan Hartman, anytime he talks, he gives us a talk. It's, it's always interesting. It's always, there's always new information. And he's such a great practitioner, and a great, you know, just a great human being. But tonight, we have Stefan's mom, and they're going to talk about how, how we're going to talk about longevity, right? And we're going to, we're going to see it in in person. So this is called HRT, ice plunges, omega threes, and dead hangs. Very interesting. That saved me. Now we're saving doctors. Where's Dr Halasa? When you need him? He's not

Speaker 6  20:37
on, no, he, he talked my ear off for three hours last night, I was hoping he joined this one.

Bill Clearfield  20:41
Okay, so Stefan brings a lifetime of holistic living, elite athletics and Frontline clinical experience to his work, helping patients and now physicians reclaim their health. He's the lead leads clinician at iron at DPC, and the featured speaker for this week's aosim webinar. Stefan was raised by holistic parents, and there's mom right there. He grew up in a home where Chinese medicine, Tai Chi and natural approaches to healing were the norm, which is way different from where I was brought up. I'll tell you, I was brought up with the opposite to this day. Has never been treated with an antibiotic. He did not receive routine vaccinations until he entered the University. He's passionate about performance and resilience, and from age seven, he trained and competed in European Junior Tennis circuits, and when he moved to Florida at age 15, he was on the US Tennis Association Junior and Men's Pro circuits. He has coached tennis since he was age 15, including high school teams. He blends mindset movement and meticulous attention to recovery. He attended the University of Central Florida, where he led the club tennis team to two national championship appearances. He worked in the emergency department as a scribe. He graduated magna cum laude in 2015 as a bachelor degree in sports and exercise science. And continued on in the ER full time. He was a master trainer at LA Fitness from 2016 to 2018 he completed a physician assistant program at Bay Path University in Massachusetts, and he's practiced in urgent care, internal medicine, spine surgery, interventional pain management, family medicine and psychiatry. He um, you know, we could go on and on, but I'm anxious to hear from Stefan. And could you give a little background about mom and all and her journey here, and then take it away. Yeah, go

Unknown Speaker  22:35
ahead, mom. I can talk about that. When I met my husband in Munich.

Speaker 5  22:42
My dad is German, and I was a German citizen, but I hadn't collected my passport yet. I have it now. So I had moved to Munich, and I met Thomas, and he had had different health problems as a child, so he became macrobiotic, and I started dating him, and I ate the brown rice. I don't know anybody familiar with microbiotic. It is. It is very extreme diet. I would not recommend it for people in there, but you Stefan, had to eat quite a bit of it. I had to go through that phase. You'd be a lot of brown rice and a lot of vegetables, and maybe about a tablespoon of oil a week and hardly any protein. And when I tried it as a young woman, you know, age 22 or so, I like that you you could eat all you want and not and not gain weight, I thought, why is anybody anorexic? You can eat. You can be full constantly, but it's impossible to gain weight on it. It's not really healthy. But then again, it is such a shock to the body that you're trying something extremely different. You are getting a lot of iodine. I found out much later with stuff on but with all the nori and the RMA and the hiziki sea vegetables you eat, being macrobiotic, is high iodine. It is high iodine. I give it that and it was a lot of fiber, and it wasn't the German fast food diet with, you know, if you're a college student in Germany, you know, you're gonna eat a lot of that. And it's certainly wasn't the American diet. So I thought it was. I thought it was good the first month, gosh, I shouldn't go too long on this. But the first month I ate macrobiotic my period started exactly with the full moon, as it should in traditional Chinese medicine, and I had zero pain, the pain I usually had with my period, it turns out, is the same pain you have when giving birth. I didn't know that until giving birth, except giving birth is easier because you get a break, you have those you have those pain, and then it just stops, and then it comes back. So it was actually better. So I had had health problems. I didn't even really understand. I grew up without any we didn't have any health insurance because my dad was a he was a house he had a house painting business. We didn't have health insurance, so we didn't go to doctors. So we tried many different diets. After the macrobiotic, we tried the Gershon diet.

Speaker 6  25:07
Explain that one? Because, you know, in the in the cancer, new, the functional medicine, cancer, people are trying that diet, and they need to know what that's about.

Speaker 5  25:18
The Gershon diet, the idea is to detox, I suppose that is the basic idea, so that if cancer is being caused by problems with the body, you will then somehow do better. So the Gersh and diet is a lot of juicing. You're maximizing, putting in vitamins from the vegetables, not just eating the vegetables, and it focuses on a lot of potassium. The potassium, not even quite sure. It's sort of, I guess they felt, again, flushes toxins from the body. Well, we ended up eating too many sweets on that, too many bananas, too many apples. And I think I already had glycemic problems. So really that would, it would feel good at first, but then lead to sad feelings. So I think I finally found out, and Stefan really helped me when he started his practice by more of a carnivore diet, keeping the glycemic in, the ketogenic keeping the glycemic level even my mood was way better. It

Speaker 6  26:22
wasn't fully carnivore that you did that helped the mood, though, we have to be clear about that there's problems with the carnivore diet as well that we can discuss.

Speaker 5  26:31
For me, if I can get my carbs down to lower than 100 grams a day 50, my mood is great, but it's even better than we're jumping into right now on a high omega three fish diet. So that of all the extreme diets I have tried for the past couple years, I was off it, then back on it. I started eating Spanish mackerel, because my husband caught it, and it is extremely high in Omega three while being low in I mean, it's hard to believe when they say that Tuna has mercury in it, but somehow, I think there is something a little off with eating all the fresh caught tuna, whereas the Spanish mackerel is just fabulous.

Speaker 6  27:23
We should probably back up a little bit, because they're wondering where we're going with this. So in all the talks with Dr Halasa and Dr Joseph's groups on Mondays, they're complaining about what they should be eating in our professional careers, pas doctors, we don't get training on eating. But you have to understand how I was raised by my parents. They didn't bring me to a pediatrician. I never had a well child check. I never went to an urgent care when I was sick, when my siblings were sick, it was what did we feed the child that made them sick? And so it was always what food did they eat that caused the illness. And that's contrary to modern medicine, completely right. We think diet is completely separate from a runny nose that you might get or an earache that you get. But in the way I was raised, the earache was directly correlated with the food that you had given the child to consume.

Speaker 5  28:18
Oh, yeah, in Chinese medicine, you can cure a vomiting, right? Go pick up some french fries that has such a downward pulling energy, the upward energy it's it's not a it's not a cure, something called the cause the vomiting that you that you should have avoided. But since it's there, those heavy fried french fries, all the salty bring the energy back down. So that's the sort of thing. Stefan was raised, raised on the yin and the yang, the yin and the yang, the Chinese medicine, traditional medicine now there, but

Speaker 6  28:50
that's we don't do that anymore. You found something better, and that that's the point. Is, through all these years of trial and error, we did microbiotics, we did Gersh and we did anti inflammation, anti inflammatory diet. Do we do alkaline ever? Some people talk about that here. You can talk about that too, a little bit

Speaker 5  29:09
that was very big in the macrobiotic diet. But, I mean, I don't want to go in that, just say that we, we tried many different things, and I found that I certainly need the B vitamins that come from the natural sources, like liver, even even the methylated B vitamins that Stefan recommends. For me, they're pretty good, nothing like having oysters or liver, beef liver. I It must be the micronutrient nutrients in there that help. Not sure it's better the

Speaker 6  29:42
body perhaps can recognize the B vitamin A little bit better and absorb

Speaker 5  29:46
it. Yeah, you see your your pee is bright green on the B vitamins. So is your body using it? Probably not. If you eat a lot of liver, it also turns somewhat green, but nothing like a vitamin. So you just can see that's also a that's also a Chinese thing, looking at the quality of the poop and the pee, what you've eaten and how it's affected you. So yeah, there's nothing wrong with the yin and the yang of traditional Chinese medicine. But macrobiotics is not traditional Chinese medicine. It was something else. It was just kind of an extreme diet.

Speaker 6  30:20
So you found that your brain works better on super high omega three. We were just at the conference in Italy, which we forgot to give an update on that, and it was a lot of talks about omega threes. Every pretty much almost every talk came back. Maybe that's because that's the big tool that the Italian dietitians have, is to leverage Omega three because they can't prescribe HRT, but we learned about how important it is. Well, I have a

Speaker 5  30:44
lot, a lot to say on that. Back when we did the Gersh and diet, forget which, we were taking a high omega three linseed oil. Well, one of the one of the oils, and we also took fish oil pills. I never noticed anything with processed fish oil pills or with the

Speaker 6  31:07
different liquids, like the drinks, the cod liver drinks,

Speaker 5  31:12
yeah, also, yeah, I've purchased the most expensive cod liver oil drinks I could find nothing like actually eating fresh Spanish mackerel. So let me talk about a bit. If any of you just go on YouTube and look up how the processed fish oil pills are made. They nobody's putting ice on this fish, because it's eventually going to be turned into oil. So it's just sitting around unheated. Then they heat the fish to then they bleach the fish, and then they blanch the fish to remove the fishy taste from the oil. Omega three is fragile. We learned that from Dr Paulo Conforti, who was here, and I can agree. I guess something still survives in the fish oil pills, because research shows that it doesn't has benefits. Yeah, I suppose so. But when, when I first tried Spanish mackerel, I went out and bought a fish necklace, like I had joined a new religion, it made me feel so great, hitting the brain and all this summer when I couldn't obtain Spanish mackerel, I bought King. It always seemed available at the fishmonger, and I said, the king doesn't work. I'll give this king a 70% of what the Spanish mackerel does. I found out later all the king is frozen. That's why it was always available. So omega three also has trouble holding up through the freezing process. So when you buy previously frozen salmon, that's real expensive. You're it's, gosh, it just it. We're talking 40% of what you get from something fresh. Very difficult to get the Spanish mackerel fresh because it's a cheaper fish. Once again, they don't want to put ice on it. They it. People have tried it and it was gaming. It was old, and the eyes were cloudy. So your fishmonger is your friend. I'm still battling to get a steady supply of it, canned herring and canned herring, the FDA allows them to put trisodium phosphate on canned Well, actually, the FDA allows tri sodium phosphate, which I've used to clean my fireplace. They allow fish mongers to put it on all types of fish, but they tend to only put it on the cheaper fish. So it I have a strong reaction to tsp. It's not healthy. They shouldn't do that. And of course, I don't know how the Omega three doesn't hold up under the canning process anyway, without putting tsp on it.

Speaker 6  33:58
Yeah, you have a very good Omega three to six ratio. And I test patients at the practice for three to six, everybody is high in Omega six, typically low in omega three, especially if they're dealing with mental health issues. And we learned at the Italian conference of functional medicine how it was, it was all about mental health, and it was how, if you can increase that omega three to six ratio, you can fix a lot of the inflammatory cytokine response of illnesses, of the mental health, of the hormone balance. A lot of that can be modified with the Omega three, but the problem is getting it in we learned from one Swiss lecturer that you have to consume about 15 fish pills to get the required dose of two grams of Omega three, the DHA and

Speaker 5  34:43
I can. I can, if I have no I have my coffee and milk in the morning. But then later I eat my meal, vegetable and Spanish mackerel. I will feel you for euphoria. It hits. I know it's working. And then, of course, for the vanity side, eating a I'll eat like 300 grams of a fish a day and vegetables, and then I might eat some eggs later, but that sort of thing, then you have the zero visceral fat.

Unknown Speaker  35:19
Yeah, mine's pretty thin. This means a lot to me

Speaker 5  35:24
that I can I was swelling in my 50s. I was getting, like, wider and wider, and I kept buying looser dresses, and I the things I had done before didn't work. To Chris, is jumping into another thing. I think it's a combination of the the horm, the hormone replacement therapy, and my high omega three fish with vegetable diet, I had zero visceral fat. And I really like that. I like feeling flexible.

Speaker 6  35:56
We've proven that through dexit body composition scanning, yeah, on mom, she's very unique. You know, most women her age, they do start to get that expanded appearance. And you can, it doesn't seem like you can do anything about it. And when you look at and my other issue, if you have any radiologists in the chat here, I'd like to hear from them. My problem with radiologists is, when I order an MRI scan of the abdomen, they'll describe it as normal, but I've had to learn how to read these things and go through it with patients, because their abdomens are full of visceral fat. But the radiologist is looking for a tumor or a kidney abnormality, they will not comment on the visceral fat, which bugs me to no end, because we know that visceral fat is now an independent risk factor for cancer, for cardiovascular disease, for kidney disease, for diabetes, for heightened inflammatory responses to covid, to viruses. So the visceral fat is super key. And if you just go around, you see any patient, you just go to Walmart, you can see everybody's expanded with this visceral fat. And maybe they'll they'll say, Well, my belly is not soft. If your belly is hard and big, that is visceral fat pushing on all your organs. You can't breathe in, some patients, willing. I can't take a full breath. Or when I lay down, I feel like something's pushing against my my lungs. That's your visceral fat pushing up against your diaphragm, it's a huge problem. Yeah,

Speaker 5  37:23
I felt that. I felt more stiff in my 50s. I feel I don't even do, I don't even have to do any yoga. I feel really flexible now, and it's not and some people say to me, Well, you're lucky. I have three siblings. They're all alive. You're winning. Let's just say they have visceral fat. Yeah,

Speaker 6  37:41
you're winning, for sure. Let's see dr GYN. Have a question, because this is an open

Unknown Speaker  37:46
floor. I know. I know we're

Speaker 7  37:47
jumping around. I didn't know if we were open floor. Okay, my Quick question for Mom is, then, do you start each day with your first meal with high protein?

Speaker 5  37:59
I I do start my day with whole, raw dairy. That's been extremely important to me, that I only taken raw. Do

Speaker 7  38:09
you mentioned mackerel? And I was wondering if that was like a routine, hit yourself with protein first meal. Because, I mean, I've always been,

Speaker 5  38:18
I don't put any sugar in the and it's only a half a cup of raw dairy because I have my coffee, and this is important, I keep a I keep glass in a glass measuring cup in the fridge, and I pour the espresso into it to cool it off, so that when I pour it on my milk, I'm not heating my milk. Don't heat the milk over 108 degrees. And everyone's doing that, they're scalding their wonderful raw dairy, and it's not raw anymore. I can't push, can't get

Speaker 6  38:50
that big thing is so so I was raised back in Italy. Can you imagine this? No dairy. So dairy was banned growing up, even though we live in so there's no formaggio, no mozzarella, no no cheese on pizza, because mom had recognized early on, is that if she fed the children pasteurized dairy, the children would get an earache, they would be congested, they would have mucus. And it took you a while to figure that one out.

Speaker 5  39:13
I don't think you all ever, ever had ear aches, but you immediately got a clogged nose. Immediate got a clogged nose,

Speaker 6  39:18
right? I think I had an ear ache once you told me, you put the old Chinese medicine, warms, warm salt in a wash rag and put it over my ear.

Speaker 5  39:25
I had my whole foods canvas bag, and you would, you warm up the sea salt in a steel pan, and you put it in the bag, because the infection is Yin, and the salt and the heat are Yang,

Speaker 6  39:38
and it draws out the yin energy. Yeah, sure, it worked. I never got an antibiotic. Of course, of course, yeah, that worked, good.

Unknown Speaker  39:45
I was raised the same way. No dairy as a kid.

Speaker 5  39:48
Oh, that's great, wow, I mean, but I found the raw dairies fabulous. I can have it. So anyway, I do start with the raw dairy in the coffee, but then the first meal is, Oh, definitely, definitely, protein and vegetables, beautiful. Yeah. On the days that I don't do that, somebody brings me a pastry and I have that and said that that does that day does not go well, no, don't eat it, right? Do not it was. I'm still getting back into the rhythm after Italy, Italy. So

Speaker 6  40:20
let's talk about another thing that's very common. I had two patients describe this problem today. It's how they can't turn off their brain, how they're thinking about mean things that they were said to them in high school or something that they said 30 years ago. They can't turn off these intrusive thoughts now. What is that? Because you had that and you fixed that,

Speaker 5  40:38
I can make that happen. I can make that happen to my brain really fast, when the when the brain throws up at you a memory from high school where you said something really stupid and you hurt somebody's feelings and you wince, that is your brain saying, danger, like danger For what I'm not in any danger. That is carbs, the detritus of carbs, hanging out, making your your body inflamed. And so you start, and it usually happens later in the day, after you've had a lot of carbs, not right, when you get up.

Speaker 7  41:17
It's funny, I've heard about that. And what I've the theory I heard is that the processed food, and especially the carbs, stimulate the amygdala, right, which is going to cause that, and then it lowers the impulses to the prefrontal cortex, which is the adult in the room, which is the logical part of you, and So now you're more aggressive and whatnot, upset, if you will, just due to the foods, like you said,

Speaker 5  41:45
Yeah, well, when you I remember my my mom, she would get up in the morning just so happy. And she was a realtor, so she'd be out getting a diet. She liked, she like, not a she got not a diet, but a regular Dr Pepper, and she would have more sugar. So by the time she got home at 6pm she'd be so angry, throwing things and yelling at my dad. And I didn't know at that time that, you know, she had a sugar problem, but who doesn't? I mean, if we went to the zoo and fed a bear a Dr Pepper, it would make international headlines. We'd be so much trouble. They know, even though a bear's an omnivore, it can't have Dr Pepper. But we all, we all put it in there. So then, if we watch our brains, we can, we can then see how it reacts to that. If, boy, if somebody, if I can, that's what I'm excited to get the doctors in there, if I can get them to eat Spanish mackerel and vegetables, and then they can see how their guts clear out from from the vegetables and lack of bread and cheese and things to clog it up, and that omega three hitting the brain, then they would be able to say, Ah, what's the difference? Then, if I then throw in a croissant on top of that, you can see the difference when people are sad all the time, they figure they can't possibly be the food that and it's there's often, as like with my mom, it took hours and hours to finally have a reaction, so you wouldn't really connect it to what you ate, you keep putting in the carb all day long. It you might be burning quite a bit of it off with exercise. Also, I could just go on and on about that good eating is still extremely important, extremely important, the the pulling down of the mood when one eats at it eats at a restaurant on with these hard cooked seed oils, and although,

Speaker 7  43:48
oh, that's a whole, whole different thing. So the other my follow up question, then to you guys, is, and I'm sorry to ask all these questions, but Stefan, do you guys, do you go by the the estimate of trying to get one gram of protein per ideal pound, poundage of body weight, right and and

Speaker 5  44:07
heavy protein. Now he told me that I would need, I would like, to gain muscle at least, the very least, not lose muscle at any given day. And he told me I would need 300 grams of mackerel a day or 300 grams of protein. You get a tiny bit of protein from milk, the whole raw milk, and you get a tiny bit of protein from eggs, but just really nothing. And I find it difficult to get in 300 grams of mackerel is a lot. Well, I split it up. I'll do I'll i i have a scale that has a sign on it in our kitchen. Do not remove the scale from the kitchen, because when I finally get hungry, I don't want to be tempted to go eat carb. So much easier. I know I need to get my 300 grams of mackerel in before I could go that have go have carb then. So that works better. I get the scale out, I measure 150 I put a little squash, summer squash, in the pan. Make the cook, the cook the Spanish mackerel super lightly, because you don't want to hurt the Omega threes, little vegetables in there. And then later, when I get hungry again, the other 150 so if I can get that in, you know, then I'll have some egg, maybe a little some carb, although the squash also has a bit of carb in it. Yeah, one can get the amount of carb one needs a day. Sure.

Speaker 7  45:34
Yeah, you probably don't need much. Yeah, it is hard, as you said, to get all of that protein in, especially since that's the most, the highest in satiety of anything. Protein first and right. So you don't want to eat as much. You can eat carbs all day, which obviously is bad for you, but the protein, it is difficult, if you just, I think, you know, sounds like with your diet, you're doing the protein and the fats and all that kind of stuff, and the carb stuff will take care of itself. You don't have to worry about that, especially if you're working out. Stefan's got you working out, you'll blow that stuff right off.

Speaker 5  46:09
Um, I do. I do not work out as much of stuff when he gets up there and plays tennis for hours, I will, I, I can. I can feel it. If I, if I, if I work out, I definitely put in my six minutes a day hanging so important to me, because otherwise I wouldn't be working the upper body at all. And I adore my human growth hormone stuff on has me on. I take a very small amount, but if I've worked out, and I take that then the next day, muscles feel fabulous. Yeah, that's wonderful. Yeah, I would just have been before that. I just would have been sore. You're going

Speaker 7  46:49
to want to keep those muscles so you can always when need be, bend them over your knee,

Speaker 5  46:56
let them have it. I when they were in judo, I used to be able to balance them and I beat them. They, you know, you get on the bed like this, be able to flip you over. It could move ahead all

Unknown Speaker  47:09
weight classes. Well,

Unknown Speaker  47:11
yeah, yeah. I mean, get beat them in weight Yeah.

Speaker 8  47:14
Now you said Spanish mackerel. What about sardines? Portuguese sardines? I would love sardines from Italy. When

Speaker 5  47:27
we were in Bologna, at one point we we saw a store that that had sardines and they had fried them. So I next time we're in Bologna, I've got to try to get them fresh and canned sardines. Well, you can't do the canned sardines. The Omega three is not going to stand the it's not going to hold up to the whole heating and canning process. And also, they put tsp on it. Do not eat. Go eat carb instead of tsp. I mean, it's a tri sodium phosphate as a stimulant. It's a dangerous it's a dangerous, very, very alkaline chemical to break down oils. It's

Speaker 6  48:05
but it says so on the can. It says there's this many omega threes in the can. Yeah, I know.

Speaker 5  48:09
Well, just, I've tried them. It's very flat feeling on the brain. And if it, if it tastes salty, always, if you get the sardines, here's the key, or the herring in a can buy it Unsuspected and take a bite if it tastes at all briny. They put tsp in it. And I've complained to the FDA. I've complained to I've made a I've made a case with the FDA there they haven't responded yet. It's been a year,

Speaker 8  48:40
and you said you didn't eat dairy in Italy. But isn't that all raw?

Speaker 6  48:45
Is it Parmesan is yes, yeah, all cheese is heated. No, the Parmesan is not. Italy is all raw until it's cooked. If you cook it like on a pizza, yeah? But usually it's, like, grated on top of the pasta, but Parmesan is not during the fermentation process, they heated up very lightly, actually, so not much more than dad does it when he makes yogurt.

Speaker 5  49:07
If true, then that would be fabulous. It's just difficult. When they're heating you'd have to constantly stir this huge pot to make sure that the stuff at the bottom isn't getting denatured, right?

Speaker 8  49:17
Well, if you heat it too much. It hardens. So you have to go very light on the heat while you're stirring it constantly.

Speaker 6  49:28
We went to the cheese making factory in Emilia Ramin. It is unpasteurized that the tough stuff that falls to the bottom, they actually feed that to the pigs, so the pigs get that and so that's why the pigs taste so good. They get nice, like way at the bottom of the barrel, but it's not pasteurized. Good stuff. I want to show you guys the program that we have envisioned for healing sick doctors.

Speaker 5  49:54
And then I want to talk about the FDA and HRT, oh

Speaker 6  49:58
yes, FDA and HRT. So think you guys can see my screen here. This is the gym, the human performance arena that mom comes to and trains at every day. So mom, you can talk a little bit about the cold plunge therapy that you do here.

Speaker 5  50:14
The over the overarching, really important thing about the HPA is that, like, it got me completely off alcohol. It is a place we go in the evening, and it's so lovely, and it's better than any gym I've been to. The setup, of course, it has the ice plunge I've never and a sauna that I like, usually saunas you can't breathe in them in people's gyms, and I've never understood why, and now I understand why. So instead of after six months of coming to the HPA, I after Stefan's wedding, I said I'm not going to drink alcohol ever again. And occasionally I do, but went from whiskey every night to zero because we had something to do in the evening that gives endorphins. It gives an incredible sense of relaxation. So to me, the alcohol was to well, the alcohol was also to counteract that the day of carb. Now the brain starts to feel sad and sad and tight, kind of balled up from all the carb. So at the same time, I was cutting way back on carb because I had to get my 300 grams of Spanish mackerel in. We were also coming here in the evening, cured, if I was an alcoholic, cured it without missing it at all.

Speaker 6  51:38
I really would like patience to experience that, because I hear this all the time, and I know they're not doing these things that I know can help them. And so we have to reach them into our other cabinet. You know, we have to reach towards Ketamine therapy, which I'm not against, but I would like it if patients could do the bare basics of mental health and brain optimization. Which is the diet the first would you say diet is more important, or would you say exercise is more important? Diet? Diet is more important.

Speaker 5  52:09
Stay out of the just man, if you could just get up and eat the protein, high quality protein, hopefully. I mean, if all you've got is grass fed beef? Okay? Well, don't overcook it, because there's just a little bit of Omega three in there, and that overcooking it will harm it. But all in all, if you stand at the restaurants and eat, well, that's number one, because it's hard to go work out when you're feeling sad and your brain is balding. What patients tell me, yeah, and you're

Speaker 7  52:41
remember, you can't out exercise a bad diet.

Speaker 6  52:45
Yes, exactly, yeah. They wouldn't even start to exercise because they're so depressed, their brain is so balled up, you're not hurt. They can't sleep because they're thinking constantly about things they did 30 years ago or things about the next day they can't turn off their brain. Oh yeah, it's time.

Speaker 5  53:04
So we started stuff on open the HPA. So Thomas and I started coming there. I do the the full body red light therapy, eight minutes on each side. You don't want to overstimulate the mitochondria, but you want to stimulate them. And before I take it, I'm going to start trying some methylene blue. Because I that's a that sounds like a really fun experiment, but before I go into the red light therapy, I definitely take some some hyaluronic acid, some C, some a and a really good collagen. I personally don't think that the beef collagen, the dried stuff, has much oomph. And I also don't like fish collagen made from scales. I don't know it doesn't seem to work. The fish collagen made from fish skin seems to be the most, most helpful. I mean, I do eat fish skin on the Spanish mackerel, but I take a lot of it, so eight minutes each side through red light therapy. Then Stefan recently got a massage chair. I just love he didn't have that at the beginning, but it's a lot of fun. There it is. Yeah, this thing I saw at the local health food store, they charge $1 a minute in there. Oh, wow. So it's, it's worth $1 a minute, that's for sure. And then then I go out to the ice plunge. And if there was only one thing I could do, it would be the ice plunge. When this is so anti inflammatory, it's amazing if one has been a bad girl and eating too much carb, and the brain is feeling balled up and you're feeling a little sad, you go with the ice plunge for three minutes and it's just gone.

Speaker 6  54:53
I mean, it is gone. Because when you get a lot of hormones, when you go to ice water, we keep it very tightly regularly. It's between 35 and about 38 degrees Fahrenheit, and when you submerge yourself for three minutes under that temperature, you get dopamine release, you get norepinephrine, noradrenaline, you get more cortisol. And cortisol is a good thing. It helps with inflammation, helps people have energy again. And it is such a good form of dopamine because it's a hard thing that you need to overcome and do. It helps train the sympathetic nervous system. You can learn to control your own vagus nerve for breathing correctly and actually submerging, getting up to the carotid and stimulating that vagus nerve to calm down and retrain that fight or flight response, which it seems like a lot of patients have a problem controlling their autonomic and sympathetic nervous system.

Speaker 5  55:44
I like the dopamine a lot. I keep my house at 82 degrees. I like it warm. I have a blanket on me here, on here as I because I find it cold in here. So I'm not somebody who has ever we used to have to go to the University of Tulsa every night and jump on the cold water for swimming practice. And I hated it, but it probably, and I remember, actually, every night when we jumped in all of this, all of this flum came up. And I thought that the gutters were for spitting because all this flum came up. So probably the cold in the in the University of Tulsa helped move all of that pasteurized milk out of my lungs. I don't know what

Speaker 6  56:27
it was about that, but yeah, you're right. You were pretty congested back then. You were a singer, right? And you can sing because all the congestion,

Speaker 5  56:33
I got congested. Now you don't get congestion anymore. No, no, are you doing the ice plunge at night? Yeah, I do the Ice plunge, and then when I come out, I mean, nobody bothers me when I'm in there, because I'm a headphones on, I'm singing, and I stay in for three whole minutes, submerged up to up to here with the arms in. And then I come out, just enjoying the dopamine. You know, nobody people know not to talk to me because they don't want them messing with my high Yes, I'm not embarrassed about it. I used to do that with wine, and now I do it with ice,

Unknown Speaker  57:10
and it took you a while to get there. You didn't do that the first time.

Speaker 5  57:13
Oh, you know what? Really helped meet the toe covers. The toe covers. Stefan made fun of me, the toes. They're the toes are. They

Unknown Speaker  57:22
just don't have neoprene booty on the tip of the toes

Speaker 5  57:26
made a polyester. It really helps. Any cloth on you will keep you, keep it warmer in there,

Speaker 7  57:30
the toe cover. You don't have trouble sleeping after that. I would if I didn't

Speaker 5  57:35
go in the sauna. So after after the ice plunge, I immediately do body body weight like I'll hang you're

Speaker 6  57:44
hanging. Do you hang from the rogue apparatus here? I'll hang

Speaker 5  57:49
from the metal. And I've started doing ring work recently, balancing on the rings and doing leg lifts and squats. And then I'll move up to adding weights to the squats, and then I'll do some other weights. And in that way, when I'm all warmed up and done some Calf Lifts, things like that, or I'll come in the carriage house and get on the vibration plate and do some bands. Then I go in the sauna, and that is another dopamine where you're enjoying the last bit of freezing coming out of the bones. It feels so good. It's so enjoyable.

Speaker 6  58:29
The sauna also has a lot of endocrine effects and helps people feel good. It increases growth hormone, vasopressin hormone, antidiuretic hormone. There's a lot of these hormones that you may not be getting, but you will get them by going in the sauna. And of course, we're under the sunlight as well, which is huge, and you're getting sunlight exposure on the body while working out. Here's my dad. I picture my dad. I

Speaker 5  58:51
do like coming to the HTA when it's sunny. We usually come in the evening, because that's when Thomas is off work. But on the weekends, if we can come when it's hot. That's it's easier to get an ice plunge when it's in. The sun's on you. It's hot.

Speaker 6  59:05
This is some of the program we have envisioned for if you have a really, you know, sick doctor, sick patient, come here for a boot camp, like our ideal program, to see if we could really fix somebody with this protocol. It's pretty strict. I mean, it's kind of like a hotel, like maybe a bit of a boot camp, right as and

Speaker 5  59:23
I especially want the depressed, I feel like that would be, if they would do the boot camp. I figured we can, we can have some positive results, right?

Speaker 6  59:33
So it would be, you want them to have, you know, their their wake up, coffee time, and then the breakfast is the first meal the day is super high, Omega three vegetables, miso soup, which I can show you what that looks like. I have a picture of a miso soup here with squash, Spanish mackerel and dandelion leaves. That's my breakfast. It's very tasty. Actually. I eat it again later too. Yeah, you can eat this a couple times a day to get plenty of Omega three in. And then they would come to, what was it? They would come to irondoc, and they would do the training with me here, do the full protocol, ice plunge workout, sauna, redlight massage, the whole thing

Speaker 5  1:00:19
they might do the Hyperbaric chamber first. I think it's better earlier in the day,

Speaker 6  1:00:23
right? So the H bot is another thing that mom does. So you and talk a little bit about your HBot experiences.

Speaker 5  1:00:33
Yeah, starting in the 50s, I had cracked heels. The old old lady cracked heels, and people go, Well, you scrape it to make them to make it go away. You scrape it, but it must be a fungus or something in there. It never seems to really heal up. And no one knows why it happens. And people aren't sure why it happened. They go, it's cause of aging. If I, if I do the third day of doing Hyperbaric chamber treatment for an hour, it starts healing up, and within a couple more, it's all smooth again. So, I mean, everybody knows that that's what Hyperbaric chambers are for. They're for healing. And that's all right, I've proven that over and over. I the reason I don't go in will just be laziness or I'm busy. But when I when I do go back in, then the heels all heal up again. I'm hoping that it improves collagen production

Speaker 6  1:01:30
and cognition, right? It's great for inflamed brains.

Speaker 8  1:01:34
The thickness, the thickness on the heel, I was taught by Warren Levin that has to do with hypothyroid, and so you'll get hypothyroid. Yeah, yeah, that has to do with hypothyroid. And you'll get thick, calloused heels and calluses on your feet, and then, and then, when you balance your thyroid, they just kind of dissipate.

Speaker 6  1:02:03
I agree. I've been trying to get her to increase that she likes to go very slow with the hormones she takes.

Speaker 5  1:02:11
Yeah, we could talk about life, yes,

Speaker 6  1:02:15
back and then last meal. You like them to finish? What? Around five, 7pm last meal

Speaker 5  1:02:20
that would be lovely to go to bed completely empty stomach. That would be

Speaker 6  1:02:25
great. May help with sleep, right? Not eating the stuffed abdomen.

Speaker 5  1:02:31
Yeah, I think I've heard quite a bit about that. People Sing, scientists or doctors saying that with all the blood going to digest, all the food, and people like DPC are for to go to sleep. You won't be sleeping as deeply, and you're trying to achieve I mean, I mean, when people call me saying they're there, they want to join Stefan's practice, I say, keep track of your symptoms on a scale of one to five sleep. And when you try different things, how to go, keep track of your sleep. How many hours did you sleep? Logan has a cool device that tells her how many, how much REM sleep she had. That's cool to have so you if it doesn't work for you, if eating a big meal helped you sleep longer and better, you know that's science, and do it that way. I think those stopping earlier is better. But you know, people, a lot of they're done with the boot camp can tweak things their own way, because everybody is different.

Speaker 6  1:03:30
Another one of big things I like to teach patients about brain health is actually resistance training. Patients say, Well, yeah, I exercise. What do they do? They walk the dog or something. No, that's not good enough. You actually need to build muscle. You need to do progressive resistance training. You need to put your body under a load. You need to do it, you know what, several times a week. But

Speaker 5  1:03:50
Stefan is saying here, and I said, and I just said, is something that is a lot of work for you doctors, but you know, too bad it's it's work that's worth it. First, you everybody's different. The patient might come to you and say, I'm not, I'm not. I'm just eating all this protein and I'm and I cannot sleep. Well, then, you know, maybe they need rice before they go to bed, or potatoes. Maybe potatoes do not work for them. Maybe it needs to be squashed. And they're going to come back. You're going to try different things. They need to keep track of what they've tried, you know, because people won't remember that. For some reason, the night shade, the potato kept them awake. Other people, it does. The potatoes doesn't bother them at all. So yeah, they might have to do iterations. You may have to try different things. And then the second thing is, of course, encouraging them to do the good things. You're You're a cheerleader, and you're looking at their progress and their blood draws and and having them reflect on what they've done as you're trying to reach a longevity goal, it's a lot of

Speaker 6  1:04:57
work. They need to put their body underweight. They need to do difficult things and challenge themselves, and I don't feel like enough patients are doing it. I feel like the patients don't understand doctors too. Doctors don't understand really what it takes, how individualized it is, how much effort it it takes to be optimized. It's much more easier to reach for the drug, right? Even in functional medicine, we are not excused from this, like we'll reach for Ketamine therapy or a CBD therapy, or we'll reach for the low dose naltrexone, right, instead of reaching for the SSRI. But the real healing, especially for the brain, it happens with all these things that we've been discussing today, the lifestyle measurements, the sunlight, the cold exposure, sauna, redlight putting the body under a load, doing the hard things, that's where you're really going to get brain optimization and healing

Speaker 5  1:05:52
and all those things. I mean, it could be that for some people, the the redlight therapy, first thing in the morning is is better for them since I come here, and this is my, this is my, my restaurant. This is what I do in the evening. I just, I tend to do all the things in the evening, and that's

Speaker 6  1:06:10
that's something that you should explain as well. But she just threw that out there. But a lot of people use restaurants, going out to eat, going out to drink, as their social thing, as their way to wind down, to turn off the brain after a stressful day at work, they are doing things that are negative for their brain health rather than positive, in an attempt to de stress and unwind.

Speaker 5  1:06:30
Yeah, yeah, it should be. I mean, it is so pleasurable for people, so much pleasure to have somebody serve you the the overcooked meat that's incredibly salty, made with the at the restaurant and and the alcohol is relaxing. The first you know, the first glass, but then, but then the you know that, then the alcohol means that they don't want that. They think it's perfectly fine. Well, you don't sleep as deeply after having the alcohol.

Speaker 6  1:07:02
I mean, if you're struggling with a mental illness, you're struggling with recurrent herpes virus, mold, mycotoxins, you name it, you need to really focus on the bare basics of health, and you may have to eliminate some of these things. That's okay. I can go out for a couple drinks. Well, you need to start with a baseline, and then maybe later you can add on these things. But what I found is patients are so full of toxins, they're so far full of polar lifestyle choices, that they don't even know what it feels like to be good. They don't know what that feels like.

Speaker 5  1:07:36
Yeah, then they wouldn't be able to gage they don't have they should tweak something a little bit because they don't know where to start with that. I mean, I see so many women my age. I call it group carb eating. They could go out and they all show that they're group eating a cake. And it's like, you know, we're all wealthy. We can have cake all day. We're in America. You can get cake anytime. It's not the hundreds of it and post it on Facebook. It's difficult to find sugar, or you had to kill a beehive to get some bees. We actually have to fight to get in all that protein, especially if women don't have that much appetite when they're older. I think guys can. Guys could probably get it quite a bit of Omega three. I cannot eat that much, right?

Speaker 6  1:08:25
Do we have any questions from our attendees here before we wrap it up?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:29
We're not going to talk about HRT, my favorite.

Speaker 6  1:08:32
Well, we could. We got our expertise here? Our William Clearfield HRT expert. You can hear it

Bill Clearfield  1:08:41
from one episode of redlight therapy with Ketamine crochet, and it feels like a neurotropic, I'm sure, neuro inflammation and neuro neuropathic pain. That's from Tony Arnott.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:52
Tony Arnott did that one. Great. Good to hear.

Speaker 5  1:08:55
Dr Clearfield, you, you're, you're big on hormone replacement therapy. Yes, he's

Bill Clearfield  1:08:59
the Kurot have. I've had a little experience with it, yes,

Speaker 5  1:09:02
a little bit. So what Tell me Do women like mandarone?

Bill Clearfield  1:09:07
Some do, yeah, I don't have a whole lot of experience with it, but some do, yes, it's her favorite. Why don't you tell us about it?

Speaker 5  1:09:15
Mom Stefan put me on I didn't want to do any hormone replacement therapy because I haven't had a vaccine since 1967 I haven't had an antibiotic since I don't know, high school, maybe college. I didn't I gave birth naturally, but I thought, Well, I'll try a small amount. And Stefan gave me a small amount. It turns out I'm very sensitive to to to it, if I will actually take testosterone and I will turn it into Estradiol, and then my period wants to start, and it spots. And so I had to cut way back on that. And I forget at what point. So I was, I was liking. Then the finally, the lower level of testosterone and the Estradiol seemed fine that then, then the Nan drone, your cover up your ears, stuff on the day after my Narlo shot, my husband is bound to get lucky. It is, it is it makes me it makes me confident. I feel like I'm driving down the car enjoying the music like a teenager. And the libido I can I have to take a very, very small amount. It makes

Unknown Speaker  1:10:35
the angel loan one unit, right?

Speaker 5  1:10:38
I take one unit, yeah. And then it feels better a couple hours later that day, and then the next day. And how often I take it one unit once a week, and then every third day I'll take four units of testosterone. But it's a, but it's a diluted form of testosterone.

Speaker 6  1:10:58
Yeah, I think it's only 20 milligrams per ml. It's a SIP unit that's like, super diluted

Speaker 5  1:11:02
down. I take a super diluted testosterone, and then three days later, the Narlo and I keep doing that. And when I asked my husband to give me a shot, he goes, Yes, he does not mind. Does he benefits? I think the

Speaker 6  1:11:14
first introduction, the red pill I got you in was progesterone, right? Because you were against all hormones until I started, you want progesterone?

Speaker 5  1:11:21
Yeah, I was having trouble sleeping. That was way back when I was still drinking wine, whiskey, right? Or Whiskey, whiskey. And now I realized that was waking me up at 2am but I needed it to relax my brain. So it was, you know, it's a combination of things. It was the cutting back on the carbs so that my brain wasn't so balled up. I have that whole story to tell where, when my brain was balled up, we used to go to an acupuncturist in Orlando. He could throw Qi. He could still throw Qi. He's I used to call his son Magneto, and he was able to drain the the balled up energy out of the head, and I feel like a billionaire after that, but it turns I would just go eat more carb after that, it would get balled back up. It's the architectures are very cool, very cool that they can move chi around. But the question is, is, why is the Chi stagnated? Why is the Chi balling up somewhere, that's the question. And lack of Omega three, apparently, and too many carbs, yeah, there you go. And not enough ice plunge. And

Bill Clearfield  1:12:27
question is, why Narlo versus testosterone?

Speaker 5  1:12:31
Exactly, right. She does both. The testosterone is also, also makes one feel way too sexy. I had to, I had to weigh back off on that. But the Narlo gives that little confidence that the testosterone does

Speaker 6  1:12:47
well. I put her on it to improve her bone density. That's why I did it. Found out it worked for other purposes as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:56
So what is the Narlo pathway?

Speaker 6  1:12:59
Well, the Narlo is is an interesting product because it's 10 times more anabolic than testosterone. And, I mean, you have to do very low doses on it, because it can convert to DHT. But it works very well for bone density, that's where it's studied on in osteopenia and osteoporosis, and it can help with pain, is why we found it. You forgot to mention that, that it helps with your forgotten about I had,

Speaker 5  1:13:27
I used to have so many symptoms. Who remembers for a long time? Oh, I remember back on the on the GERSH and diet, around three o'clock in the afternoon, my my middle back would just start hurting and hurting. And one Googles that, you know, that was, I was 20 years ago. You google it, it says, what I mean, you have pancreatic cancer. I was like, Well, I don't have pancreatic cancer. And I would do stretching and laying down, it just disappeared. And then by lowering carb, it was a it was a lot less, but if I did a lot of standing, I still had it. So I'm not, I'm not sure exactly where the pain comes from, but Stefan gave me Narlo, and I was like, I was I have a product. I I have to package myself in two packs and four packs. And I had to do that for hours. Can't, can't get my daughter to help. And I noticed I was able to do it with no back pain. Angelone, I figured

Speaker 6  1:14:30
it was coming from your back, so a little bit of arthritis maybe in the backs, the major loan is great for any sort of inflammatory joint condition and any sort of bone type pain. It's, it's phenomenal product. Low dose, of course, doesn't take much.

Speaker 5  1:14:44
Yeah, I do. I don't the back doesn't really, I don't really notice it that much at all. Now, it's close

Bill Clearfield  1:14:50
half life of the Narlo versus testosterone.

Speaker 6  1:14:53
It's the same is a SIP in a it's just like seven to 14 days.

Speaker 5  1:15:00
And it took me, and once again, she'll tell you, it wears off in six days, as as Dr Clearfield knows it's it's in the hormones are an integrative process. It took me quite a while to find the level I like right now, and you know, I might need to tweak it. Progesterone was very difficult to find which, which amount I have all these different bottles at home, of 180 60, because if you take too much progesterone, you wake up with your arm asleep because you didn't move. It put me too asleep. And if you take too little, then you then you're not sleeping as well. Are

Bill Clearfield  1:15:38
you using an injectable progesterone, you said oral,

Speaker 5  1:15:44
right for bed, but little tiny bit of melatonin.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:48
Okay, there's a question about low VESA, which is, I guess, the the prescription Omega three or fish oil.

Speaker 6  1:15:55
Oh, like the sea put Yeah. I mean, I'll give that to people who don't like fish or have the indication, hyper triglyceridemia, cardiovascular disease, that's when I'll prescribe it. Otherwise, I just have them drink fish oil or eat fish ideally,

Speaker 5  1:16:13
most fish doesn't have that much Omega three. It is a tricky, tricky one to get everyone's deficient in Omega three, if you run their levels. So nice to be high on the Omega three. It's a it, like the like the ice plunge. There's no, there's no downside to this high none. You can have it daily.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:36
It What about so there's a question about contraindications or side effects to monitor for with the test, usual testosterone side effects. Is that? Usual testosterone

Speaker 5  1:16:50
side effects? Well, if you, if you take too much and it turns to Estradiol, then your period wants to start, and you notice your your uterus, that's just annoying, but just cut back on it till you find I mean, I'm not a doctor, but for me, true, that's for me,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:06
isn't that? Right? Clearfield, you hear about that all the time, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:17:09
What there's a question about, is it DDPA Or NPP NARIO

Speaker 6  1:17:14
nanju loan is what you'll find at compounding pharmacies. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:17:19
And what was that question? Again, that you asked me, I've had my mind on looking at the questions here.

Speaker 6  1:17:26
So someone said, farm fish have no Omega three. That is true. That is mom did a lot of research on that. Oh,

Speaker 5  1:17:35
yes. Oh, I remember once I was at Publix, and he was telling me, oh, the farmed fish is just like the the fishmongers. Fishmongers are trouble. The farmed fish is just like the fresh fish. They're they're fed what they would what they would eat on the ocean. So I went home and I called Scotland. I got the number from him. Called Scotland. The guy says, we feed him rapeseed oil. He he admitted to me that they're only in nuts in the ocean the farmed fish, because then they don't have to clean the poop. The the ocean current takes the poop away. Otherwise, they feed them big old balls of rapeseed oil, rapeseed oil, and there's no Omega three most poor fish. No, it is a kind of a yummy, squishy, oily taste.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:20
But you could taste it tastes like oily and fatty. Or

Speaker 5  1:18:23
I've seen people in summer. Have you seen the the the retirees, pointing and choosing the farmed salmon when there's wild salmon right there? Now, in summer, there's wild caught salmon. And I used to think that that was as good as Spanish mackerel, but now, with my experience, I don't know why Publix swears that the wild caught mackerel has not been frozen, but maybe it's just really old. By the time it makes it to Florida, it doesn't have the oomph of the Omega three, and it should by by analysis that a fresh Spanish mackerel does, but it's not bad. It's like 80% it's just, I want the whole thing.

Speaker 7  1:19:09
Yeah, you know, as mentioned before, oh, I'm sorry. No, go ahead. No, as mentioned before, the Omega three comes from the algae that the fish eat and farm. Fish don't eat the algae so they don't get any omegas.

Speaker 5  1:19:24
Oh, yeah. I mean, rapeseed oil. What's in definitely doesn't have any Omega three. And I know for me, what is it? Canola oil. Oh, also sushi. That seems like such a health healthy choice when eating up, by law, it has to be frozen. So even though you order salmon sushi and you pay, Wow, incredible high amount for it. Now it doesn't have that much Omega three.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:48
No, yeah. So, so Doctor Smith writes, addressing some of the resistance seems to help a lot, listing the advantages of detrimental health behavior out together and the patient with the patient, and then listing that out the disadvantages of giving that behavior up seems to help them really want to change. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:20:07
that's exciting to to be a I mean, I mean, people have to go to church every week to stay on the straight and narrow. It's not possible for the doctor just to tell them once to do something healthy, you've got to, it's, it's just too many temptations out there. You got to pump them up and have them understand and process their own

Speaker 6  1:20:32
we as clinicians need to lead by example. You have to be building your physique, you have to be training, you have to be eating the right way, showing your patients this is, this is how it's

Bill Clearfield  1:20:41
done. We all, we all admire Dr Halasa and his, his efforts at your at your clinic there.

Speaker 6  1:20:45
So yes, yes, we're going to get everybody in the cold plunge at some point. So

Bill Clearfield  1:20:50
how long have I known you? Step on? Five years. Six years been your long time. Why you've been hiding? Mom,

Unknown Speaker  1:20:58
I tell people when they

Bill Clearfield  1:21:00
go to call. Now, if I need, if we have a last second dropout, and I know who to call, now

Speaker 6  1:21:05
you've got go irondoc Primary Care. Google it her phone number. You're going to get her. If you Google irondoc,

Speaker 5  1:21:10
I would have put mom on that's great. When people call asking about the practice, I say, oh, let's talk about health, because people can schedule online. I don't, I don't. Sometimes people make me schedule for them, but usually they're calling.

Speaker 6  1:21:27
It's fully automated, but they still call and I'll get Mom. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:21:31
we will sit there. We'll talk for 20 minutes about what they've got going on and what I've got going on. I'd like to talk about what the immortalists on Twitter are talking about,

Speaker 6  1:21:40
oh, yeah, you can find her on X, get your x handle is, there's tennis.

Speaker 5  1:21:46
Is tennis. That's my, my patented tennis scoring device. But all I talk about on Twitter is longevity.

Speaker 6  1:21:54
Longevity so her and has like 10 or 20 other researchers and scientists talking about, you know, resveratrol. NAD was really

Speaker 5  1:22:02
funny. Y'all ever heard of true niogen The Yeah, of course you've heard NAD precursor. So if you'd like to chat with Dr Brenner, who invented it, I've chatted with him these if you're not Taylor Swift, you don't have that many people following you on Twitter, and you can talk to experts like that. He loves to make fun of bad longevity research, and I appreciate that. I tell Dr Brenner, people say, Oh, you're being mean. But I'm like, No, we need longevity research now, not wasted on the nonsense that sirtuins are longevity genes, that kind of thing. Very fun, very fun

Speaker 9  1:22:43
stuff. Hey, Dr William, by the way, Stefan, you got the, you got a very nice platform here to invite Dr William to join us, and in end of December, of the Christmas, you know, so he can, we can put him in the ice and then put them in the hellfire. Yeah, yeah. You want to go? Dr William, you can see the I think,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:04
hell there. I'm going to be in Miami three times next year, by the end of June, my my kids are into January, though my kids are are visiting their their grandparents in Miami Beach. They'll be there. And then I'll be with Dr farshian In March, I think, and then in April, again, is ammg, so I'm going to be in Miami a lot, so I know that's not Melbourne, but maybe we can make a detour. We can make it happen.

Speaker 5  1:23:32
Yeah, if you, if you don't hit the traffic, it's a nice drive on the 95

Bill Clearfield  1:23:37
I drove last, last April in Miami, I thought I was going to die. Yeah, you need to complain about five minutes having to wait five minutes at the one, the one, one spot where you get stuck here, and it's like, are you ridiculous? So Dr Berger writes, I'm not sure exactly what the question anybody prescribed just omega threes without Omega six. I'm not sure what the question is there or what

Speaker 5  1:24:04
I don't want Omega six. No, no one, actually, nobody wants to make six.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:08
Do you measure anything while, while using Narlo, testosterone, Estradiol, anything?

Speaker 5  1:24:15
He likes me to give blood for the analysis? Yes, you need to do more blood work. She doesn't do it. Enough data is really good. I just, I tried to avoid blood draws, but,

Unknown Speaker  1:24:27
yeah, I do, for the sake of science here, we need data.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:29
Yeah. What about saliva testing? Dr Smith's been making our circuits here, and it's saliva testing, is it? So according to

Speaker 6  1:24:37
her, she did that one time. Mom, she did the saliva testing. After she broke open a capsule of progesterone, she put it in a shot glass, and she took it, and then she did the spit test. She had a progesterone value of like 2000 plus. It was like greater than 2000 plus things one needs to know.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:59
What is the name of the clinic. I guess your clinic, Stefan, is direct primary care. Primary care. It's a real sign, not a fake background. No, no, I know. I know. No, we, you know, we, we don't allow you to do anything fake here. It has to be all real.

Speaker 5  1:25:16
So, so, from, so from, no, because, you know, the FDA just recently said, oh, you know, by the way, hormone replacement therapy, it's good. So I went from from no hormone replacement therapy to I take a tiny, tiny amount of get up, and I take NP, thyroid and DHEA, and then pregnant. And I'll take the pregnenolone and the progesterone at a tiny amount of melatonin at night, right at night, and then, as we mentioned, twice a week, the either the testosterone or the NARIO and the Estradiol. When do you do that? Oh, yeah. Estradiol, I will. Whenever I wash my face, I'll put it on, and then you put four face, you know, I've found recently I'm moving it around to other parts too. That's something I'm kind of finding out, not just on the face. And yeah, if I put on too much, Estradiol, yeah. Once again, the uterus, I start to notice it. It feels funny, and that's the whole discussion. I would probably won't have time for that. The I guess we had it searching. We had it a lot easier dealing with inflammation when we were younger. And then it gets after there's your body's not asking you to get pregnant every month, it becomes more difficult to get her inflammation. I guess that's why I was swelling so much in my 50s. So the level of all of the hormones I take, it all just works better and a much more sensitive to it if I don't go on a bender, like when we went to Disney World with my sister and Epcot eating there and drinking too much coffee. It it kind of messes it up. So that's a whole nother thing, a whole nother Reason. All you doctors have to tell your patients that it's it's work, but it's worth it. You're older now, don't be going to a party and group eating cake. You're on hormone replacement therapy. Help it along. Keep that inflammation down, because inflammation we can get rid of right now. We don't need immortalist to wait for the AI to give us a magic longevity pill. There's so much to do right now, but it involves discipline, and maybe it always will, even if AI comes up with good ideas for for creating super longevity, right?

Speaker 6  1:27:56
The AI won't give you discipline. That's what you have to do yourself.

Speaker 5  1:28:01
Yeah, I don't think I am. My gut feeling is that there's not going to be an ozempic for and for aging, and if there is, it'll be like, ozempic, it might have some side effects. It would just, it's all going to work better, just right now, like, they've finally figured out that hormone replacement therapy is good. It works a lot better if you're on some high quality protein and vegetables and a little carb than Epcot,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:30
well, they didn't really say it was good. They just said it wasn't as bad as we as we made it out to be. Is that what they said? Still hedging their bets, especially on systemic Estradiol,

Speaker 5  1:28:41
well, I would think I'd like I got a call the other day, a woman called and she said, Well, I was on testosterone, and it didn't work. That was her experience. She went to the doctor, he gave her the prescription. I mean, I did mind is so different than the general. And then she just thought it didn't work. I mean, how could it not work? But so

Bill Clearfield  1:29:03
there's usually one of two reasons, not enough dose and not a high enough dose. Didn't give it time to work, depending on the delivery system, or she didn't really use it and kept skipping. Those are the three reasons. Otherwise, you

Speaker 5  1:29:20
know, there might be a third one that she was fasting on some days, and it had one effect on her, and then other days she was out group car, beating with her friends. Because that's what women do to try to stay fit. They don't eat, don't eat, don't eat, and then they eat incredible inflammatory stuff, which, in my experience, messes up the hormones you're, they're they're fighting a certain amount of inflammation, and then you're throwing it in there.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:46
And there's a question about, do you recommend DHEA if one testosterone, or do you need both

Unknown Speaker  1:29:56
DHA in the morning? Yeah,

Speaker 6  1:29:59
DHEA alone for its benefits in preventing cold illnesses, in improving your immune system. Well, I want

Speaker 5  1:30:06
to talk about that. The with aging, everybody is taught in med school, and if you ask AI right now, what happens to the immune system as you age, and they say, important parts of your brain disappear and you don't make T cells anymore, and then you die. Now this is patently, of course, not true. We have all kinds of people age 80 who have immune systems. And then the other idea is, well, they only have an immune system because they vaccinate. My immune system has never been better. If any of you want to go chat with somebody who has RSV and covid and also a norovirus, I'll go chat with them. My immune system has never been better and I'm ancient. Huge thing was switching to raw dairy from cooked dairy and getting completely off alcohol, keeping the inflammation down, I guess that would and not being and not needing to detox denatured milk proteins so we can still have, I think I took a test on the methylation of my immune system, and it was a couple, like two years ago, and I had a 40 year old immune system, but, oh, it's better than that. I used to get the flu. I used to get bad flu back when I was age 30, and I do that anymore immune system. It can be, we can have it.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:32
I'm gonna, I'm gonna be a little bit of a naysayer here. DHEA actually works quite nicely as a counterbalance to cortisol. And you know, we look we do a cortisol DHEA ratio, and about five to six to one. If it goes higher than that, then you have too much cortisol. But I was, and this is an observation, I don't really have any hard data on this, that when you have adequate testosterone levels after six months to a year of and again, we start very low doses on with testosterone, and build them up over three to six months. We don't start out with, you know, the the quote, unquote, therapeutic dose. It's been my observation that we get a negative feedback with DHEA, and that when we use DHEA, especially if you're drawing levels either saliva or in serum, the levels drop, even if you're treating patients with DHEA. So it seems a bit of a conundrum there. How to explain that? Because patients come in, I'm taking 25 milligrams of DHEA, and for females, my total testosterone is 35 and my three is about two to two and a half to 3% which is adequate. And it's been that way for a year, and the levels seem to drop. So there seems to be a negative feedback. So I've been shying away from using it. When we have adequate testosterone levels, we'll start out with that, and then when we when we get to our therapeutic levels, I'll start backing off again. That's my observation. I've been doing this for 25 years, and right wrong.

Speaker 5  1:33:07
I don't I've been wrong before. I don't notice anything from DHEA. So I'll leave it out and enter and see

Bill Clearfield  1:33:15
it was FDA approved in 1952 or whatever it was back then, for for major depression. So there is some, you know, anti depressive properties to it. And again, it's the quality of it. I mean, if you're getting it from the dollar store, obviously, you know, because in us, you can get it over the counter. If you're getting it in the dollar store, it's probably not, you know what it says on the label. If you get it from, you know, the pharmaceutical grade companies where you have it compounded, you know, you could be reasonably assured that you're getting the real thing. So, but then again, that's my observation. Someone asks about Estradiol on the face, rather than Estradiol. Any experience with that?

Speaker 6  1:33:57
I mean, if you talk to GERSH, she says, Estradiol is all you need. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:01
and I know that's, that's who I talk to. She's going to be at the conference next week or two, or at least on the line.

Speaker 6  1:34:08
I'll be online. I'm already going to go to Las Vegas for a frame. So that's enough travel

Bill Clearfield  1:34:12
for me. Next week, when you come here, Marlene Siegel's coming to us, and then she's going to Las Vegas.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:17
Oh, wow, that gets around Florida too. And we would

Bill Clearfield  1:34:21
have, if I had known her, we would have given would have given my mom that, like the keynote speaker here, oh, you're sweet. That's great. So it asked, Do you stop DHS? Usually, I do. I stopped DHEA after probably about, usually, about a year when they have adequate testosterone levels. Free testosterone two to 4% is what I what I shoot for, for free testosterone for women so and I figure I it's kind of been this discounted. I like doing free androgen index. I know, I know that you'd rather do the bio, bio available testosterone, but that that one, I need a, need a, you know, you need a, some online thing. I'd be able to do things in my head. So free androgen index, which is total testosterone divided by the product of sex hormone binding globulin times point 288, that'll give you the right units. For males, 30 to 130 is considered normal. About 50 to 110 is our optimal and for females, I think it's 0.8 to 5.9 or 6.0 is normal, and two to 4% to two to four to a point oh, to 4.0 that's kind of our ideal.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:46
So, all right, Professor

Bill Clearfield  1:35:49
fasted, bedtime, Happy Thanksgiving. Well, thank you for being with

Speaker 5  1:35:52
us, everybody and so you are

Bill Clearfield  1:35:55
great. You're invited back anytime we tolerate we tolerate your son, but you are a gym and a joy to speak with. So I wish our speakers were as enthusiastic as mom here.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:08
I'm so enthusiastic about this. This is,

Speaker 6  1:36:11
I mean, she's the great, greatest Secretary I could hope for. She loves anti aging medicine.

Speaker 5  1:36:16
When Stefan said, Let's go to Bologna, I was like, you know, I just want to do my longevity work here. We did end up having a fabulous

Speaker 6  1:36:24
Tane. Great time. Im pasta every night. Oh, my god, yeah, but I'm

Speaker 5  1:36:27
but I'm so looking forward to all my dopamine here that I have all worked out. It is

Speaker 6  1:36:32
nice to be back in my routine. You know, Italy was fun. It's a nice conference. Was great, but it's great to be lifting weights and cold

Bill Clearfield  1:36:38
plunging again. Italy was better than the than the English the England

Unknown Speaker  1:36:41
conference, way better, way better than London one, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:44
yeah. Because coming up Saturday that the England conference is now in Bangkok, and they got me, they got me speaking at 1:45am

Speaker 5  1:36:52
my times, how they wrote you into that? Their time is there? I

Bill Clearfield  1:36:57
don't know. I'm talking about the myths of testosterone therapy. So anybody's interested, I'll be on at 1:45am la time, which will be, what 445 east coast? Oh, wow. So it's two in the afternoon in Bangkok, though. So, okay, so, yes, Happy Happy Thanksgiving. Everybody. Stefan, any or mom, Tech with you. Mom, any, any final thoughts, any, any summary, any, any, any wrap up.

Speaker 5  1:37:29
I did forget. I almost saw on the the HGH, so I take all now. I went from no hormones to I'm on all of them. I don't think there's one. I might. I'll skip the DHEA and see what happens

Bill Clearfield  1:37:42
our own little Terry Hertog here, huh?

Speaker 6  1:37:45
Yes, yeah. Terry her dog did the whole dog and pony show. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:37:49
He was complaining that I had swayed back. And that was fun. He was he was saying, what was wrong with me? Longevity work is the coolest thing. I don't understand what anybody is spending and any other money on. I mean, I had a great time in Bologna, but if I had, if I had a visceral fat problem or depression, of course, a lot of women feel that Italy will cure their depression. Cruises, vacations cure it for a little bit, but finding a way to create dopamine through

Bill Clearfield  1:38:24
it's the long term. It's sort of like your marriage is on the rocks logo. Let's go buy a new house. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:38:30
yes, yeah, yes, yeah. Whereas if she was feeling high from fish and ice plunge, you can do that every day. It won't you won't get sad after you buy the house. You don't feel sad after ice plunge.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:41
You feel sad when you

Speaker 5  1:38:50
the buying the house. A sadness afterwards, after getting it now, there's no there's no sadness after finishing. There's no sadness after Mandarin. There's no sadness after exercise. There's all of this is only, only good endorphins.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:07
Okay, terrific.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:10
All right. And have a great conference next weekend.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:13
Stefan, thank you so much. And Mom, we can't thank you enough.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:17
This is Oh, you're so sweet anytime or just,

Bill Clearfield  1:39:19
yeah, well, we always have last minute folks dropping out. So and I know who to call, because I feel bad. Stefan always if I call him, if I call him, I said my speaker tomorrow night is gone. He's always there. So now I know who to call. I won't bother. I

Speaker 6  1:39:34
always got something for you. Yeah, yes. How'd you like it? John bergus,

Bill Clearfield  1:39:39
anybody else, anybody else have any any comments or questions?

Speaker 1  1:39:44
I just, I tell Stephen, the sound is good with your equipment too. Thank you.

Speaker 5  1:39:49
Oh, appreciate it. I thought you'd like it. Yeah, this is nice. I'm kind of whispering. It's cool.

Speaker 6  1:39:54
Can hear your feedback as well. You guys aren't hearing this, but it's really cool to hear

Bill Clearfield  1:40:01
our own voices. Okay? Thanks again. Thank you all, all so much. Videos are up on aosrd.org

Speaker 6  1:40:12
it'll be on my YouTube channel as well iron direct primary care and on Instagram, irondoc primary care, find me there,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:18
and also Mike, we have, we have clear Clearfield medical group also, is YouTube? Okay, good. So yes, Clearfield Medical Group, we have all of our videos also, and next week, we will, next week, next Thursday, we will be in Reno live, 8am Pacific Time we are online. It is the Congress of medical excellence.com.

Speaker 6  1:40:50
Great. Are you going to have the Tuesday show still, or is that? Yep, closed out.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:53
Okay, yes. Next week we have a local psychologist, Dennis Williams. He's going to be talking, I think about Ketamine actually. And we actually have a Ketamine lecture on Saturday at the conference. Greg Jones, who does has a credit. He's local Ketamine clinic, if you want to learn about Ketamine IV and other forms, spravato, which is the nose spray form I got through, halfway through the class the course, and I said, I don't know if I want to be doing this. It's, you know, you need to do, you know, you need to have all sorts of resuscitation equipment and whatnot. I'm getting it too, too long into tooth.

Speaker 6  1:41:35
Oh yeah, the IV stuff is, yeah, crazy, yeah. You're not gonna get into that. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:41:39
And so those of you who are on here are signed up if you're coming in person, like we can't wait to see you, if you're online, we will be starting, we will be sending out the links probably we're doing a run through tomorrow. We'll probably by Friday at the latest, so the online links and everything's going to be recorded. And we will, we'll have that. We'll have those available. And after, after the show also. So we have, like I said, Put the put the agenda up again.

Speaker 6  1:42:17
Alright, it's pastor bed. Tane, we're signing up. Bye, guys. Thank you

Bill Clearfield  1:42:21
so much. I know it's late. Thank you so much. So again, our speakers, you got got this guy here? Dr NARIO. Dr GERSH, are classic homeopath, as is Sean DEVLIN. Dr, SWIDAN. SWIDAN, she's from a 4m Dr GERSH, also from a for m, dr, Shallenberger is the, you know, the father of ozone in the US. Thomas levy is a classic homeopath. He's coming up from Medellin, Colombia to speak to us. Pete Demitry, Air Force pilot. He's going to be speaking on heavy metal toxicity. We all know here Marlene Siegel, she's, you know, our integrative veterinarian, Dana ULLMAN is another classic homeopath. Remember, the second day of the conference is for his homeopathy. Bill Andrews is an inventor. He's going to be showing us some of his RNA and protein components and telomerase work. Dr Tano is going to be talking about his chronic disease model, and Dr Burgess will be introducing something called Homeopuncture. Dr James will be talking about bias in in AI and bias in medical care. And Dr wolf again, is another classic homeopath. Dr Zvenia, top of my head, you tell me. And Dr Quinn you, you can talk about what they're talking about. Dr Halasa is, is going to be in house. And Dr homanfarb is a integrative dentist. He'll be talking about, you know, the mercury removal and how to do it safely. Chris Kelly is the UNR University of Nevada, Reno's radon officer. Greg Jones does IV Ketamine. And Dr Ibarra is our kind of, our spiritual guide. So that's our lineup for next week. Please, please, please, please support us. We need your help. We still have room for sponsors also, and we have some entertainment planned also, and a couple of surprises. So please, please join us. It's always a Herculean effort to put this together, and we really didn't start. We got a real late start here. We've only been doing this since September. Those of you that are on the committee, I want to see if we can have a short meeting on Friday instead of our usual Saturday. Since most everybody's off on Friday. I'll let you know about that and and that's about it. Anybody have any comments or questions? Those of you that are signed up and coming? Dr Simmons, Fitzsimmons, thank you so much. And Dr burger, I know you're I think you're online. Dr Quinn, of course. So thank you all for for your support, those of you that have been with us and Doctor NARIO, what you have anything to add?

Speaker 3  1:45:29
No, just be there. We're just not only going to educate everybody. We have good entertainment. We have food, for sure. We got hungry.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:39
Yeah, we got a lot of food. So we're going to feed you too. And I have to tell you that last week, when I was at ammg, they didn't have breakfast. They had a, you know, like a box lunch for for, you know, they did have some non CME credits, and they didn't have anything afterwards over it was like, kind of, kind of a dud, actually. So, so we're going to not leave you hanging, at least. So Okay, Dr queen, you got anything from your end?

Speaker 7  1:46:02
No, I think we're good. We had our call last Saturday. We're moving forward, looking forward to the conference. Okay, good.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:11
And I picked up some new hate from my meltdown from last week. I hope so. Okay, everybody. Thank you so much, and we will see you again next week, same time, same station. We will have Dennis Williams, like I said, he's a local Reno psychologist. He's going to be talking, I believe, about dissociative disorders and Ketamine So, but it could change. So I'll see you again next week. Dr NARIO, Take care everybody else. Thank you so much. Dr or Mike Broadwell, thank you for sponsoring us, and we're happy to have you here, and we'll see you again. We've been here, by the way, every Tuesday on from from to October of 2020, we've been doing this so you can get two ama CME credits. I didn't get the link for Dr Halasa This this time, so I'll send it on it. They're always in the, in the in the weekly newsletter. We'll put them on there the links if you want them. Okay, all right, John, you got anything for us?

Speaker 1  1:47:18
Everything's beautiful. Thank you. I got three new

Bill Clearfield  1:47:27
Okay, something about the JD is a lawyer, okay, all right, and okay, all right. So Good night, everybody. We'll see you next time, same time, same station.

Speaker 1  1:47:38
Good night. Good night. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai