Speaker 1  00:02
Hi. Let me, let me. Let me. Unmute No, I got, I got doc on.

Speaker 2  00:27
All right, I made, I made you to host. Joel, okay, thank you. All right, I'll leave it on, but I may lose it. Understand. Okay, we're out on a party. I don't know if there's going to be internet out here. Okay,

Speaker 1  00:40
okay, so I'm talking to Doctor Nario right now. Okay,

Speaker 2  00:45
alright, so, so you should be on, you should be good. Okay, good to go. I'll leave it on running. Okay, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  00:54
Alright. Bye, bye.

Unknown Speaker  01:02
You know, nine people entering the waiting room.

Speaker 3  01:18
All right, can you hear me? Joel, yeah, I got you all right, perfect.

Unknown Speaker  01:25
Yeah, I just let in everybody.

Unknown Speaker  01:29
Are you related to Dr Burgess?

Speaker 3  01:34
Long lost brother of Dr Burgess, that's right. Did you only noticed this shell

Unknown Speaker  01:44
slightly.

Speaker 3  01:46
This is a an old look of Joel. This is Mo, that's right,

Speaker 4  01:53
that's right, but it looks, it looks classy. I like it. Tell Dr Clearfield you have a vehicle, a vehicle, B, E, C, H, E, O, a vehicle is a Hasidic beard with someone that has a lot of wisdom. Yeah, yeah, that's right, yep. Is the wisdom his How's your dad? By the way, he's doing good. Okay, just said I'd

Speaker 1  02:30
ask, yeah, no, I appreciate it. He's hanging in there.

Speaker 4  02:34
Good. He's keeping, well, you're, you're, you're there for that's important. You betcha.

Unknown Speaker  02:41
Yeah. 80 years old.

Unknown Speaker  02:45
So Doctor Melvin, how are things with you?

Speaker 3  02:47
Pretty good. I was just there in Florida. How did you like it? It was good. I was in the bus palm I was lecturing in a firm

Unknown Speaker  02:59
Oh, okay, but your lecture was well received.

Speaker 3  03:01
It was good. Yeah, there was a lot of people there. I saw some of our colleagues there also. And there's a lot of new stuff coming out there in the pipe.

Unknown Speaker  03:16
What do you find exciting?

Speaker 3  03:20
There is this new thing that they have in relation to Alzheimer's. So it's an infused antibody. It's called TB 006, and it's actually, it's, it's binding to a substance called galectin Three, and has been the theory of the glue that binds the tau tangles of the brain to facilitate Alzheimer's disease. So that's why there. When you give this this an infusion, when you give this infusion, it will remove this glue from the brain, wow. And gives that the connectivity back to the to the neurons,

Speaker 4  04:08
until they have a lot of research done, or just starting, or there is. And

Speaker 3  04:13
the good thing about this is, during their their presentation, they have the clinicians who are already doing it on their patients. That's why, when, when I actually spoke to these clinicians after the talk, and they gave me the the lowdown on some majority of these people, of these doctors, actually started with their own families. So the common theme, wow, their stories would be, it's either their mother their father, that actually were there was patient number one, basically. So these are more of a per they didn't have to anywhere to run to anymore. They did the

Unknown Speaker  04:57
it's epidemic,

Speaker 3  05:00
yeah. So that's the unfortunate part of that. Are there

Unknown Speaker  05:04
any homeopathic protocols that help

Unknown Speaker  05:08
for Alzheimer's dementia,

Unknown Speaker  05:10
Alzheimer's?

Speaker 3  05:14
I mean, there are, but really it's, it's, it's harder to get these results that you see with these because how they presented their results to the presentation would be through videos like before and after videos. Oh, you could actually see patients who couldn't speak, who couldn't talk properly, and then suddenly, on the after video, the it's just a different person. You thought he was a totally different person.

Speaker 4  05:46
Well, how about, how about lasting results, or, you know, following him over timeline?

Speaker 3  05:52
Uh, yes, and that is part of that presentation. Also timelines about how he presented. It would be so you're not going to get this in one treatment of this IV protocol. So they're saying it's either from the what fourth or fifth dose that you will really get some, some, some of the needles to move in terms of the parameters, cost

Speaker 4  06:16
is a cost effective and accessible

Speaker 3  06:22
it the price. Of course, that's so here's the the kicker, the price is 6000 bucks per for infusion, is that each, each each infusion, yes, but for clinicians, of course, you get the wholesale but basically that's your bleeding pocket for for the for the patient. But we, I was pretty impressed by this, and there's really potential behind it. It's the company's name. We're not recorded, are we? Yeah, we're not in CB yet. We're not in CME yet. So the company's name is true, binding, t, r, u, E, B, I n, d, I N, G, okay. And product is T, B, 006, so it's, yeah, it's Alma They compared this to a monocle antibody. But the the beautiful part of this, some, majority of MS therapies are actually, I'm sorry, Alzheimer's therapies. They have the complication called microscopic hemorrhagic bleeds and edema, and this is not even present in this specific therapy. The most side effect they they actually get really, is really not even, as I remember, it was not even neurological when you're giving this. These are really more of, like the regular IV therapy, things that you need to keep an eye out for, like, allergic reactions, right, rashes, pain on the infusion site. So there's not even something that's major about the brain that would be detrimental when you get the therapy. So definitely worth so I'm going to try to talk to these guys, and hopefully we can get them on board to present in our platform, so that will definitely Europe, a lot of existing

Speaker 5  08:23
FDA approved. Are they going for FDA approval, or where does it stand?

Speaker 3  08:27
So not FDA. I think they have FDA IRB studies. So that's why you need if you're going to be a clinician who will do this in your clinic, you're going to sign up as one of the clinicians as part of the conduction of the study. So your patient is patient numbers, this, whatever, yeah, now they're part of the study as well.

Speaker 5  08:49
And and then do they supply it no cost, or is there still a cost to the clinician during the study,

Speaker 3  08:56
you will, you will have to pay so that that's the cost that I just mentioned to you also, even though they trained, yeah, so they will train you, and also they will there are requires. So here's the thing, not everybody is eligible to get this infusion, but the reason that there's a genetic snip that when you have it's like a galectin snip, as we call it, that when you give this infusion, it will not remove that glue that's stuck in your head, uh, meaning in the in the Alzheimer's pathology. So that's again. But still, it's all I think it's worth it, especially for the families that are just suffering through care dementia.

Speaker 1  09:45
So how would they, how would they know about the glue? Would it be through MRIs or CAT scans or blood tests or what?

Speaker 3  09:54
So there's a, there is a blood test called galectin Three. The thing there is, it's not something that would show in the brain. So you're only going to be seeing serum levels of galectin three that is not reflective of the brain. So the only thing that you could really assume here, unless you get a brain biopsy, is that when somebody has Alzheimer's, there is an equivocal level of galectin three in the brain. Gotcha. Oh, that's, that's the only way. But the thing here is the results that you get after the infusion will tell you basically that the galec entry has been lowered down eventually. Wow, is

Speaker 6  10:34
that that? T, B, 00,

Unknown Speaker  10:39
that's right. Were you there? Kent in

Speaker 6  10:41
I was there. I missed you. Yeah,

Speaker 3  10:44
I was moving around. Did you have a booth?

Speaker 6  10:47
No, no attendee.

Speaker 3  10:52
You're participating with us, huh? I was you're not exhibiting your stuff, your cool stuff? No, no, I even saw Claudia. I don't know if anybody knows Claudia monger guy. I saw Stefan sephi, yeah. I saw him posting stuff there. Yeah.

Speaker 6  11:14
I saw him at at the designs for health booth.

Unknown Speaker  11:21
Did you see him

Unknown Speaker  11:28
say that over again? I didn't hear it.

Unknown Speaker  11:30
Did you see Stefan last night at CME

Speaker 6  11:35
and in Palm, West Palm Beach, Florida, with the a forum spring conference last weekend.

Unknown Speaker  11:44
He was, he was well armed.

Unknown Speaker  11:50
Yes, he's always well armed.

Unknown Speaker  11:55
Michelle's talking about his presentation last night.

Unknown Speaker  11:58
What did he do?

Speaker 5  12:01
Preparedness. Uh, disaster preparedness, yeah, everything from every med to uh, every weapon you can think of.

Speaker 3  12:12
He was ready. He should do this. He, I think he was about to do that with us. You should probably do, uh, yeah, a version of that here. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  12:23
it was well thought out.

Unknown Speaker  12:27
Oh, he always does good presentations, that guy,

Speaker 1  12:31
well. And, you know, you got to think about it. I've been watching this for, I don't know, 2530 years now, and they've and people have been talking about the shit hitting the fan for 30 years now, right? It's like, you know, you finally just get like, we're America, we're okay. I know you've, you've got to admit that you just do, yeah, hey,

Speaker 5  12:56
Joel, he brought up something about, about the, I guess. What is it in Portugal, or something right now, somewhere over there, there's all kinds of power outage. The power went out, yeah, and they can't figure out why. And that brands, he's just saying, that's just one of the things. They're

Unknown Speaker  13:13
trying to blame it on atmospheric things like,

Speaker 3  13:18
okay, the guy, I think it's five. Is Jay here.

Unknown Speaker  13:23
I'm here. He sure is.

Unknown Speaker  13:27
I saw Jay. What's

Speaker 7  13:29
going on, guys? I see many friends, many friends among us here, of course. Hunter and I are here. Hunter, you need to switch over your glasses, bro, you're a yellow. You got to get on the reds.

Unknown Speaker  13:41
Brother, coding with you color

Speaker 7  13:43
coding. So of course, guys, you have to wear your EMF shading night glasses so that you are down converting the negative and dissonant, harmful EMF frequencies. Now just kidding, but you probably should, but it's good to be back here. We're going to try to wheel through this presentation. It's called the peptide stacking master class for all of you guys, and then leave some time to get some questions in. It is a new presentation Hunter, and I will be doing a presentation at Dave asprey's event at the end of May. So it is, it's definitely revolutionary presentation, and that, I think it covers things that most people in the clinical and lay space have no idea about when it comes to, like injectable by regulators and some of the latest and greatest on bio regulators, and really stuff that we're just finding out now, you know, from, you know, our experience and clinicians that we work with, you know, giving us background and feedback. And then, of course, just our community of people that purchase from our company, which is bio longevity labs. So we're kind of like, I think, in the golden age right now of people learning about, you know, bio regulators. I think most people in this call tonight understand enough about peptides, but we're seeing now that combining them with bio regulators, especially the injectable bio regulators, some of them are even more profound than injectable peptides. So with that said, I'm going to share the screen and Hunter and I will start the presentation. If you guys are okay, can you guys? Can you guys give me? Give me ability to share? I don't think I have it right now.

Speaker 3  15:12
Joe will, will do that. Oh, let me introduce you while Joe was doing that. So for everybody who, of course, we definitely know you. You are a regular with us, Jay. But we have newbies. Here we have newcomers. So Jay is a five time, five time International Best Selling Author, Men's Physique champion and founder of the Jay Campbell brand and podcast, recognizes one of the world's leading experts in hormone optimization and therapeutic peptides. Jay has dedicated his life to teaching men and women how to hashtag fully optimize the their health, while also instilling the importance of raising their consciousness. Follow him on social media at J Campbell 333, and subscribe to his daily news letter email with more than 60,000 subscribe, wow, that's a lot for the best info on pants hormones and optimizing your performance. Hunter, I know, I also know you. I Dr Bill forgot to send me your your profile. Maybe. Hunter, can you

Speaker 7  16:15
your profile? But in the in there,

Speaker 8  16:19
that's okay. I've been working with Jay for several years now, so studied under him, learned all this peptide, normal stuff from him, and we do a lot of content now. We have courses, communities, books and everything out there like that. So just really grateful to be here. I have no medical background or training or anything, just a guy on the internet that has experimented on myself and hopefully has done a good job of codifying it into courses and books and videos and podcasts and all that stuff. So thank you guys for having us. We're really excited, and think it'll be really good tonight, because, like Jay was saying, we've got some stuff that is kind of, you know, from the fringes of just, you know, stuff we've done and people in our groups and stuff have done that we're hoping to bring more into mainstream practice that you guys can use with your patients and everything. So thank you guys

Speaker 7  17:03
for having us. And to be honest with you guys, Hunter is very, very humble. He probably has the best YouTube channel on the planet. I'm not exaggerating that if you want to learn about peptides and how to understand how to use them, he has a very keen mind, and has the ability to take very esoteric and arcane subject matter and make it extremely relatable on video. So he is like the guru when it comes to breaking down, you know, the bio energetics and the bio dynamics and the pharmacokinetics of peptides. So if you're not subscribed to him on YouTube, I would highly recommend doing that. But with that said, if I have the ability to share, which I think I do now, I do not. Can you guys give me the ability to share?

Speaker 1  17:43
I'm trying to figure that out. Dr Nario, do you know how to do that?

Unknown Speaker  17:49
Just, I don't know if you have the share screen button. James, yep,

Unknown Speaker  17:52
I'm good now we're good to go. You got it? Okay? So

Speaker 3  17:54
before, before you start, just to vouch for how great the skies are, I actually have Jay's book, and I use it as part of my protocol for peptide therapy. So he has so many good things. So everybody here in this, in this class, I guess this master class, you're in for a treat. So ask, Oh, house housekeeping rules questions after the presentation. Okay, alright, let's do it. Jay, thank you,

Speaker 7  18:19
my brother. I appreciate it. Man, so much. Okay, here we go, guys. So Hunter are just going to kind of rotate. Tell me, if you guys can see this, I can make this bigger. Are we clear? Is it big enough that you guys can read it right now? Yep. Full Screen. Awesome. Okay, so again, this is the peptide stacking master class, and this is literally the debut of this. We have released this prior in February, but we have massively improved this slide deck and have added some stuff and just, you know, as you guys know, we're in a Quantum Age of medicine right now, so things are happening is literally exponentially. So we've actually added some experiential stuff too. So anyway, here we go. I think you guys know I'm just going to skip this about peptides revolutionizing everything, and you know the different mechanisms, benefits, dosing, protocols and durations. We're going to get into that. You guys already know that, but I'll just say this, and then I'll let Hunter get into the next slide before you ever touch peptides, it's essential to optimize the body's foundational health systems. Peptides always, always work best when the body is hormonally balanced, metabolically efficient and equipped with the necessary nutrients to support cellular repair, regeneration. By addressing these baseline needs first, you'll always maximize the effectiveness of peptides and achieve much more sustainable long term results. Here are the six foundational agents that should ideally be part of your routine before using peptides, along with the reasons why they are critical for supporting peptide use. Go ahead, Hunter,

Speaker 8  19:46
yeah, so we just always preface this, guys, because I always say the foundational agents are what allow peptides to work really, really well. So if you're using these things, I'm just going to, you know, blast the room real quick for the sake of brevity, but if you're using these things, peptides, you're going to get a 10 out of 10 response in yourself and your patients. If you're not doing most of these things, or all of these things, the results that you could get out of the peptides are maybe a three or four out of 10. And we always hear people, oh, this peptide doesn't work for me. You know, ozempic or wagovi doesn't work for me because of this, that and the other. A lot of times it's because they're not addressing the foundation. The foundational issues with health. So these are things that are not peptides, but the we want to use in practice. So first is going to be testosterone. If you have no testosterone on your body, and that goes for you being a man or a woman, peptides are probably not going to do that great. They're going to do something, but they're not going to work that well. And obviously Jay has the master book on testosterone therapy, and we're continuing to iterate on that stuff too, but testosterone basically is going to be something that everyone needs to have their peptides work well. And obviously we're big proponents of testosterone therapy. The next one's human growth hormone. Now some people like human growth hormone. We're huge fans of growth hormone. Some people don't, but Jay aptly named the god stack. And these are, this is kind of the god stack that he came up with. And human growth hormone is one of the foundational agents that, again, at a therapeutically precise dose. It's one of the best things we know for anti aging, and longevity helps regrowing the thymus gland. So that's, that's a big one. There we have Metformin, obviously, a very, very well studied anti aging drug that is crucial. And part of j and I's protocol that we use in our daily lives, and all the people that we coach, desiccated thyroid is another one. Anytime you're on hormone therapy or hormone optimization therapy, there is a slight negative the feedback loop on the thyroid, so the thyroid being optimized is just going to help your peptides work that much better. And then the last two are actually things that everyone should be supplementing with, peptides or not, but they're very, very important because of what peptides do. And I've got magnesium plus electrolytes and then taurine, we can kind of lump those all together. The peptides that we're going to talk about tonight are very, very powerful signaling molecules. And whenever we signal to the body to increase metabolism, to burn fat, to do all of these processes that are going on the body. It naturally is going to raise our metabolism, which means what we're naturally going to deplete more minerals than we normally would. And you hear people all the time. This is really big, just because GLP, one peptides, or the forefront of peptides, made my heart race. Peptides kept me up at night. Peptides, you know, I stared at the ceiling all night and I couldn't sleep, or my heart was racing, or things like this. And the reason is because their metabolism is going up, their minerals are getting depleted at faster rate, and they're much more dehydrated, and they need to supplement with minerals more so in the presence of all these peptides, it's critical that you adhere to some of these foundational agents that we're talking about tonight, but I always say that in there, because so many of the problems that we hear from people in the general public that are using peptides on themselves come to a lack of hormones or a lack of minerals in the body, and peptides will never replace those things. So you just want to make sure that they're in the picture. You guys are smart. A lot of you smarter than me, so you know that. But that's just, you know, we always preface the conversation by saying, make sure these are addressed, and if you are, you're going to be good with peptides. So well

Speaker 7  23:09
said, I'm going to scroll a little bit. So again, we already covered that. Okay, so the stacks is okay. So is this is Am I missing something because my screen is black on Mac, or is it's just, it just goes, it's

Speaker 8  23:26
actually two slides. I think it just can't see the break in the slides, because the

Speaker 7  23:31
slides are black, not missing any copy, right? It just goes right into AOD,

Speaker 8  23:35
yeah. And then it's fat loss. The Fat Loss stack is the first. Okay,

Speaker 7  23:38
okay, cool, okay, cool. So obviously, this is what you guys are here for, and this is the latest and greatest stuff. So I think most of you are familiar with five AOD or AOD 9604 again, this is one of those peptides that, clinically on paper, it looks amazing, but when used in person or experientially, it's not that great. Now we actually sell a product. And I know we can't promote products or anything like this tonight, but I'll just say this to you guys, anecdotally, a powder form of this like an effervescent form of AOD, 9604, in a capsule, combined with mitochondrial optimizing memetics and even PPR inhibitors, is like a blow torch to increase endurance, to increase resting metabolic rate. We can get into that when we when we you guys ask questions later, but I'm not really that big on AOD, 9604, again. You know the benefits on paper shows it does all these things like fat loss and helps with stopping muscle wasting. And of course, the dosage is right there on this slide deck, but I'm not a big proponent of it, because, again, in clinical practice or in experience, you don't see the results that you see with some of these other peptides, like Tessa Moreland. Again, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on Tessa Moreland, because I think that you guys are familiar with this agent. It's obviously an FDA approved drug. It's known as agripta. It was designed for men who have lipodystrophy, which is, you know, excess visceral fat around the center mass. It happens to be, when used in people who are into, you know, biohacking or Anti Aging and Longevity, it tears belly fat. It's like a hot knife through butter for belly fat. So men who have a lot of trunk fat. It's an amazing peptide to inject locally, you know, either in the morning or before bed. Again, the dose is two milligrams. That's kind of a higher dose. Some people can get away with a lower dose. But it's very, very powerful fat mobilizing peptide, especially visceral fat in the abdominal region. I'm gonna let Hunter talk about SLU dash, PP, 332, which we effectively know now as sloop. This is probably the greatest advancement in oral mitochondrial optimizers, or mitochondrial memetics, that we have seen ever go ahead. Hunter,

Speaker 8  25:56
yeah, so mitochondria optimization is all the rage right now, and you've probably heard of some of the mitochondrial peptides, like mots, C SS, 31 we'll talk about those a lot tonight, but so you is actually a estrogen like receptor agonist, so it actually doesn't systemically affect estrogen levels, but we're actually agonize that receptor, and in the process of doing so, it activates mitochondrial function and basically increases mitochondrial spin. So it works amazing for fat loss and helping drive the metabolic rate up in people without raising their heart rate. Now, in rare cases, some people we have heard of saying like, Oh, I, you know, felt like I got like, an increased heart rate or whatever. But it works, works amazingly well as far as the dosage goes, you know, 400 to 600 micrograms daily is where most people are going to land. For some people, we'd recommend starting at close to like 100 to 200 micrograms. That works amazingly well. You can take in the morning. I take it in the afternoon. Jay takes in the afternoon. Some people don't like taking an afternoon, but it doesn't really keep you up late at night, although some people will have that experience, but it works amazing. It's really, really good for endurance and performance enhancement when you're training. But even for people that are more sedentary, it just up regulates mitochondrial function so much that it helps improve fat loss. And you know, the duration wise, we're going to use that for eight to 12 weeks and then cycle off for four to eight weeks. But an amazing agent. The cool thing about this is it's in a pill form, so you don't actually have to inject, if you have people that don't want to inject. But I would say, for the most part, 90% of the people that we've worked with that have tried this are absolutely in love with this and use it periodically throughout the year to help with fat loss,

Speaker 7  27:36
and just so you guys know it. This is in the clinical literature. It is it is known as an obesogen. It is patented. It was patented in 2014 why Big Pharma has not come out with a drug around this? No one knows it's kidney protective, vascular protective. There have been some studies in humans, a couple. Most of the studies are in rodents, but all of them show incredible results. The University of Florida did a double bind, placebo controlled study in 2023 and that's when this thing really took off. And, you know, obviously you guys know we have friends in the performance enhancement and professional sporting arenas. A lot of them come to us and ask us to consult with them, and we can tell you that this product was the driver in the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris, like every athlete was using this product because of the profound changes that it offers. Again, I would say that a serious overdosing situations, there hasn't even really been many side effects. The people that Hunter was talking about that become tachycardic are usually, you know, metabolically deranged people who have damaged mitochondria. And again, the tachycardic is more of a it made my heart rate variability, you know, move a little bit when I'm tracking, you know, I want to get we'll get to glps in a second. But, like, we're seeing that a lot in the health now, and people are freaking out, and they're saying, oh, GOP ones change heart rate variability, and, you know, make my resting heart rate go up. And me and Hunter always laugh and say, Well, yeah, that's good. You're fat. You need your resting heart rate to go up. You're trying to become more fit. But it's just, you know, it's just people relying on data, and they freak out, five amino one, MQ. I'll just briefly talk about it. I think most of you guys are familiar with it. It's obviously a it's a small molecule. It's not technically a peptide, but it's, you know, found as a peptide. It is good. Is it as good as sloop? It's not even close like Hunter. And I kind of look at this now and say, well, this thing has been diminut, diminutized by sloop so much that I don't really know you know how much this is that effective. I also can tell you from using this since 2017 or 18 tailor made. If you guys remember the tailor made days, Ryan Smith sent this back to me in 2017 when I was like a given a guinea pig for tailor made, and said, Hey, use this and tell me what happens. And I used it for four weeks, and I definitely put on three or four pounds of skeletal mass. And I also had increased endurance since that first cycle. And by the way, I was taking 150 milligrams of it daily first thing in the morning. Since that first time that I used it, I have never, and I've probably used it six or seven times, I have never experienced any benefit or any gain, anything noticeable since then. So I have this suspicion that this product is one of those products that builds up in the mitochondria pretty fast, and then the body just gets used to it, and it really just doesn't have the same effect of this. Now there are other people that will disagree with me and say different things. But in my personal use case and my personal experience working with a lot of people, this product, which hunter is going to talk about, is way more found and pronounced,

Speaker 8  30:50
yeah, and I'll say to the to the five amino for a more obese person, they can actually get really good results with it, because basically what it does is it inhibits an enzyme it chews up NAD plus. And so when you inhibit that enzyme, it actually allows NAD levels to rise. And if you're also using NAD, it actually gets you more bang for your buck out of the NAD. So the more fit you are, the less probably of an effect you're going to get. But for again, for someone that's really fat, they could get pretty good response from five amino at least for, you know, a four to eight or 12 week window. But Matt, we have this on here, again, to mitochondrial peptide. This works really, really well, again, to stimulate mitochondrial function. So it's going to enhance fat oxidation, weight loss. It works really, really well to enhance insulin sensitivity as well. So I think for people that are pre diabetic who's not pre pre diabetic, these days, you know, 70% of the country's overweight or obese, but you could use a dose. You know, two milligrams daily would be good for someone that needs to get in shape. One milligram daily, probably for someone that's a little bit more in shape. But again, this works really well. Again, I think this one, it does better that actually more mitochondria impaired someone is. So someone that's 5070, pounds overweight, those people love this peptide because it actually, for the first time, gives them, like, kicking the pants to get off the couch and go exercise and have energy. I think for people that are like, super, super, super fit, it can work well, I think actually too for people that are in the last stages of a dieting phase. So maybe you're like, your body builder or competitive athlete, when they get down to, like, really low percent body fat, we can help improve mitochondrial function and give them a little bit of energy, but they're not going to notice that much fat loss from it. So again, works really well. You know, one to two milligrams a day works good there, I will say, because it's a question that we get all the time. There's a rumor out there about mots C that you have to use it all at one time when you mix it, and that is not the case. So there's actually a published study that looked at that and it was good for 30 days after reconstitution, it was still 99% efficacy when they measured it with LC Ms. So there is a rumor, I don't know when it was put out, but that you have to use five milligrams or 10 milligrams of Motsi all at once, because it degrades within 15 minutes after mixing with bacteria static water. And that's actually not the case. But I know amazing peptide, and I think the more inflamed someone is, the better they're going to get a response out of it. Yeah, well

Speaker 7  33:13
said Hunter, I would just say for all of you guys, because obviously we all know that many of you are working with what I like to try. I've coined the term human dumpster fire. Unfortunately. You know, metabolic dysregulation, obesity and insulin resistance is now the norm, especially in the West. This is a powerful, powerful peptide to use for them, especially when they are starting out. Because, as you know, many of these people, both men and women, have no energy to exercise, and mots C is going to fire on those mitochondria, giving them the energy to exercise. The only negative Is it is it is rather expensive, and they do need bigger boluses, the more damage their mitochondria and more insulin resistant they are. Okay. So this drug right here, which obviously is not FDA approved yet, but it will be sometime, probably in either early 2026 or late 2026 because Eli Lilly owns the patent to it, just like they own the patent to turzapetide. You guys, this is the most powerful drug in the history of mankind. There is nothing that holds a candle to this drug. It is the capabilities to it will definitely be a trillion dollar drug, without question, it holds the key to reversing so many forms of insulin resistant metabolic disease. I mean, this is a very powerful and pronounced GLP, again, it's a triple stage. Again, GLP, gip, glucage and tri agonist. And in practice, and again, obviously, Hunter and I have been using this drug for almost two years now in microdose fashion. There's nothing like it. It. I mean, let's just put it this way. You guys have all heard everything it does from a metabolic enhancing stage. What you probably haven't heard is what it does to biomarkers. It is insane in how it improves biomarkers. It increases HDL. It improves lipo, a, lipo, B, small particle profile counts. It dramatically lowers inflammatory markers. People see massive reductions in high sensitivity. C, reactive protein, homocysteine. I mean, it's not what this drug does Now, granted, it's not FDA approved. And you know, the people that are using it are biohackers, you know, people in the research experimentation world, you know, again, people like us. But obviously there are now millions of people around the world that have been using it from a research standpoint, and Hunter, and I don't really know anybody that comes back and doesn't say that this changed their life. The other thing I would add is that it has this profound ability to kill or reduce, if not eliminate altogether, obsessive compulsive disorders, alcoholism, porn addictions, internet addictions, video game addictions. It literally is rewiring the brain, both dopaminergically, serotonergically and, of course, dendritically. It is insane. It is an insane drug. That's all I can say about it. The problem with this drug is, if you give this drug to a again morbidly obese, metabolically deranged person, it might make them eat too much. It does have a mild appetite suppressant effect. It's nowhere near as pronounced as tirzepatide or some agite is, but it is just so powerful metabolically that will enhance resting metabolic rate, and so some people might need a micro dose of a, you know, appetite suppressant drug like Tris appetite, or the newest one, which isn't really a GLP, because it's an amyloid, you know, reducer or stimulator. And that is, of course, Corona tide, and we talk about that later in this, but this is just such a powerful drug. I will just tell you guys that it's always the best to start low and go slow. From a dosing standpoint, women, probably even obese women, can start very, very low. I mean, again, the clinically recommended dose in the trials, and there are numerous trials. And you know, this is a drug that you can't come out and say, But Jay, it's not FDA approved. And you know, the people in the research community don't count. They've got massive amounts of trial data on this drug in comparison to Tris appetite, and it absolutely shits all over terza petite. I mean, you see 10 to 15% differences in rate and weight reduction. And remember, the studies are always using people that are obviously morbid, you know, com filled with comorbidities, and again, metabolically deranged, not the people that you know are living to live their life longer and stronger. So you got to take it with a grain of salt. But for the people that are doing that, and they use a micro dose of this, it's a it's a life changer. I mean, it's literally a life changer. In fact, I will tell you guys this. I have a daughter who's 17 years old, and she is a very competitive cheer and gymnastics athlete here in Tampa, Florida. And she has my mom's side genetics, where she they just put weight on in their hips, in their glute, hamstring tie in region. And she was always like, super athletic and fit and lean and trim. And between her sophomore and junior year of high school, she just started putting on weight, you know. And really doesn't have a bad diet. You know, she's a teenager. She doesn't eat the cleanest diet all the time, but she just put on weight and for the amount of exercise she did and does. It doesn't make any sense. I put her on point one, five milligrams of rotavide, and in two months, it was like she was a new person. Now, granted, she's a very disciplined person, and I'm obviously supervising her use of that. And she's smart enough to, you know, inject herself twice a week with it and stuff like that. And obviously my wife and I are, you know, supervising her, but it's insane, what it did for her. And again, zero side effects, no issues, you know, nothing where she's like, suppress, you know, because obviously some agmatite in terms of appetite, in some people suppresses their appetite too much, and they forget to eat, and then they, you know, have that horrible, vicious metabolic cascade where their thyroid gets damaged and they lose muscle and lose hair, and, you guys know, all the other things that happen. But I we don't see that much with this drug, but the only thing I will say is very, very, start low, go slow, assess tolerance, assess effects, and make sure that you you know if you are or your patient needs a an appetite suppressant with it that you also use a microdose of tirzepatide or Carrillo tied, which we'll get to in a second. Hunter. Refresh my mind. What is syringe compatibility mean again? So

Speaker 8  39:45
what I did, each stack has a syringe compatibility, meaning which peptides you could actually mix in the same, inject together. In this case, all these would actually be injected separately. Some of them were orals, so you wouldn't have to inject them at all. But I did put on there, because everyone always wants to know, well, we got six peptides in the stack, can I inject all in the same syringe? And a lot of times the answer is no, but in some cases it is yes. Thanks for

Speaker 7  40:06
explaining that. This has been a while since I looked at this, but go ahead, dude, go over the summary. So obviously, the summary for every one of these stacks is always going to be what the dose is, the benefit, the mechanism of action and the duration. And then, you know, we'll comment, I think, at the end, when we get through this presentation of like, what can be

Speaker 8  40:24
combined? Yeah, I'll just say, you guys can obviously see that, and you can screenshot it if you want, while it's up there, just for the dosages and everything. But we're kind of hitting all these pathways. So I think the good concept to walk away with from fat loss is like we have all these different pathways that we can hit, and a lot of clinicians make the mistake of pres prescribing ozempic, which is a mistake in itself to begin with, because we have things like trespat and red intricide Now, but they'll they'll prescribe that, and they just keep titrating up the dose way beyond where to where there's actually diminishing returns. And when we look at this, we've got AOD, which works on the growth hormone pathway. We've got Tessa Moreland, which also works on the growth hormone pathway. We have SLU, which works on the mitochondrial pathway. We've got Motsi, which also works on the mitochondrial pathway. We have five amino which is really working the NAD pathway. And then we have retrotide, which is the master at working the insulin pathway to help with fat loss. So we approach that we can stay on these lower doses for a longer period of time, maybe 1216, or 24, weeks, and really accelerate the fat loss someone's going to get without stalling out and having to take a mega dose of a GLP, one peptide. We can use smaller amounts of these peptides to achieve a better goal and to ultimately make the person healthier over time, instead of inducing a bunch of side effects, which we don't want. So that's kind of summary. Obviously, there's there's more agents out there that we could go deep into. But I think for someone that really needs to lose weight, you know, whether it's 20 pounds or 150 or 200 pounds, if they've never done peptides before, I mean, you could come in with the stack right here and really, really do a lot of good things in a, you know, 12 to 24 week window. Yeah,

Speaker 7  41:57
well, said, Okay, so now we Anti Aging and Longevity. We'll start with the piti on so this is a very interesting peptide, because it's also considered a bio regulator. You know, there's an injectable form and there's an oral form. They're both very powerful, and equally, I would say, beneficial. Again, if you're not familiar with it, it stimulates telomerase activity, so it clearly is preventing telomerase minimization as you get older. So, you know, for someone again, like most of us on this call, you know, in their 40s, 50s and 60s and wanting to turn back the clock, a couple of 10 to 20 day cycles of epitom yearly will improve the strength of our telomeres, and, you know, essentially prevent them from shortening, or slow them down from shortening as we get older. So again, it definitely is really awesome for DNA repair and to regress cellular aging. I love this product. You know, we have dosing in here, one milligram daily, if you were actually injecting it. But there obviously is. There's also oral versions. You can take it for 10 to 20 days, two to three cycles per year. This also is amazing to stack with 5 million either again, in the oral version or the injectable version. We'll talk more about injectable by regulators at some point in this show whether it's in the question and action question and ask session later. But again, a very, very strong one, copper peptide, ghkcu. I'll just take this next one, Hunter, and then you do the next two, also what we call the ShamWow peptide. It's responsible for so many different things, rejuvenation, hair regrowth, tissue repair, collagen synthesis. I mean, it goes on and on and on. I mean, this is probably now the biggest and well most well known peptide in the rejuvenation space. All of the women's, you know, skincare product companies and the high end companies are all racing to market. You know, various grades and formulations of ghkcu, along with other peptides that we probably won't cover in this presentation. They're smaller and they're not as well known, but this is the prime mover, and again, it's in so many things. I sold a company back in 2022 we were probably the first company on planet earth that had a patent for our hair regrowth product, and its primary constituent was ghkcu. Again, there's many, many clinical research studies that show its effect in regrowing hair, increasing red blood cell formation and, of course, increasing angiogenesis at the follicular route. So it's very, very powerful peptide. You can also inject it. You can obviously use it transdermally. That's those are the two most popular methods of administration, I will I would say to you guys to be very wary and very cautious of a lot of companies that are coming into the market now formulating proprietary blends of ghkcu in their skin creams or in their lines, if it does not have a minimum of 3% grade of copper peptide, ghkcu, it's worthless. And I would say 75% of the companies right now in the marketplace that are formulating skincare products naming ghkcu in it are worthless because they don't have enough of a grade. We are in the process, again, I'm not promoting it, but we're in the process of making the strongest topical hair regrowth formulation ever. I will tell you guys this. It'll be so strong it'll literally grow hair on a bald head without active follicles, but it's going to cost us probably a good amount of money to manufacture it. So it's not going to be cheap, but as I say it's a lot cheaper than going to Turkey and spending six or $7,000 on a hair transplant, but that's coming from us. Hunter talk about IPA more than Yeah.

Speaker 8  45:49
So I think for the purposes of longevity and anti aging, we would be remiss to leave out growth hormone pathway right of stimulating growth hormone. So we have an ipyrelon For this one, because it's a little bit more mild relative to test more than I kind of think of test melanin for use cases like more aggressive fat loss, or even if someone wanted to put on muscle because it's gonna have a stronger pulse of growth hormone. But iprelon is a little bit more mild. But at the same time, a lot of women love it for hair, skin and nails, and also, too, for what it does their physique. But basically it's just a growth hormone secretagogue, so it stimulates the pituitary gland to produce more growth hormone, and in doing so, helps with muscle and tissue repair, helps with sleep, helps again, with skin, hair and nails. Dose is pretty simple. You just want 100 200 micrograms. You could do that to two or three times a day, if you're really anal, or 10 of but most people are just going to do that in the morning. So you could do 100 to 200 in the morning, and then 100 to 200 in the evening. And then you do that, and a lot of people notice right off the bat, their sleep is better, their training is better. They have more energy a lot of times, because their sleep is better. But really, really good. Growth Hormone peptide, I would say, if there's actually one peptide that's kind of like a gateway peptide, the really man, women, young or old, can benefit from them, tip them around like it's mild, really, has no side effects whatsoever, and most people respond really well to it.

Unknown Speaker  47:06
SS 31 Lu,

Speaker 8  47:07
yeah. And then SS 31 again, is in the mitochondria peptide family. If we think of the mitochondria peptide, we have mots C and SS 31 those are kind of the two big players for injectable mitochondria peptides, if mod c is kind of like an upgrade to your software of what's going on in the body and signaling to improve metabolism, AMPK, activation. SS 31 kind of works on the hardware, so everyone knows about their computer. We always get software updates, but sometimes we gotta replace the hardware, which is our actual laptop and monitor and everything. And that's what SS 31 is doing to the mitochondria, so it targets the inner mitochondrial membrane, so it's going to reduce oxidative stress, protect the mitochondria, and then, in doing so, it's going to help raise energy levels. Also works really well to support heart health and brain health, so this is going to be one for longevity purposes. It works really well as we're aging just to optimize the actual structure of the mitochondria. But you'll see this used in a lot of very chronic diseases, like chronic kidney disease. A lot of people that have multiple sclerosis or some of these more like really severe autoimmune disease, respond really well to this, because, again, they're very, very mitochondrially impaired. The dose would be two to five milligrams daily. You just do a sub two injection. You could do that for five days a week for up to 12 to 16 weeks. But Jane, I love SS 31 I think there's a use case again, for for everyone, depending on the dose, for some of those chronic diseases, it would be a much higher dose, like 10 milligrams a day, but just for Anti Aging and Longevity purposes, and kind of renovating the structure of your mitochondria. You know, two to five milligrams a day works really well.

Speaker 7  48:45
Well said, I would just add SS. 31 is one of my favorite peptides right now. I literally look at this as an amplifier peptide. In addition to all the amazing things the hunter just said, it does, it has this incredible ability to enhance other drugs and supplements that you're taking, like, for example, we now know that it enhances androgen receptor sensitivity. So if you're using therapeutic testosterone, or something else you know, along the endocrine optimizing pathway, it'll probably make you, you, it'll it'll allow you to use a lower dose and just get the same effectiveness of it. So again, it's just one of those peptides where I think everyone, as Hunter said, there's a use case for everyone. I think a micro dose of SS 31 a couple of times a week is amazing for longevity and anti aging. So I already mentioned thymeline And using this with epitalon again. This is another very powerful thymic function and immunomodulator. It's a very, very powerful peptide and improving T cell production. And of course, it also reduces oxidative stress and inflammation. And look, the truth is, is we get older, we can't avoid oxidative stress, right? I mean, living is, is oxidative stress. So the harder you live, the harder you train, the more active you are, the more oxidative stress you are, excuse me, the more oxidative stress you create. And I'll say this too, and a lot of people don't really understand this, but like people who are endurance athletes, you know, ultra triathletes, marathoners, people like that man, they create so much oxidative stress and free oxy radicals because they're eating so much to fuel their energetic demand from their training and their exercise, and they don't realize that that is actually shortening their lifespan. I'm sure a lot of you guys have seen people like this, and come in and you run their biomarkers, and you're like, Jesus Christ, this person has one foot in the grave, right? But they're, they're running 25 to 30 miles a day, but they don't realize, like, you know, what kind of work and metabolic stress and demand they're creating in their body. So this is a really good drug, slash peptide, you know, call it bioenergetic agent, to use in combination with the pixel on to really help with chronic inflammation and oxidative stress. This should be, literally, the peptide of choice for anybody who's an ultra endurance athlete. Again, the dosage is on here, and again, similar to pixel on 10 to 20 day cycles. If a person has acute inflammation, or they've driven themselves into the ground severely over trained, you could do more. You know, you could do 20 days. You know, probably 20 days on, 20 days off, 20 days on 20 days off, and then repeat that twice in a year, but it really is a massive needle mover and getting rid of oxidative stress and inflammation. So on the syringe compatibility on this one, the pittaline and thymeline definitely mix them together. Obviously, if you're using oral versions of them, you can take them at the same time. The peptides that should be injected separately or the every everyone is is okay to mix other than, and we'll get to the chart in a second, other than ghkcu. I think most of you know who inject ghkcu. And by the way, a lot of women inject it into their face now for anti aging purposes, in addition to the transdermal formulations, it can burn. And we don't really understand why some people experience the burning I think it has something to do with melanin, cortoid receptor complex formation. I think you know the level of your skin tone and where you originate from, ethnically, whether you have, you know, darker complected skin or lighter complected skin has an effect. I think lighter complected people can inject ghkcu and not seem, not feel burning sensation, whereas darker complected, which is obviously more melanin formulating people notice a burn. So again, it's biochemically unique and it's individual. But some people really cannot handle injecting ghkcu Because of the burn. Henry, you want to talk about summary real quick.

Speaker 8  52:36
Yeah, just to just sum that up, this would be much more for the person that is doing everything else right, and they just say, hey, I want a background protocol to kind of run a couple times, one or two times throughout the year, to make sure I'm doing everything I can to cover my basis from an aging standpoint. So we're not necessarily going to feel any like huge boost or have like a major needle moving effect from any of these peptides. But we use them together. They work really well. And the epitalon and the thymollin work just so so well for brain function and thymic function. And then some of those other ones too are just going to help drive energy levels, just drive the genetic expression through the GHK. So they work really well. And again, this is something that you just kind of run in the background once or twice a year, assuming everything else is under control. And I think that kind of leads the point where we're talking point where we're talking about these stacks. I think, you know, everyone wants to go buy 1000 peptides and inject them all at once. And Jane always tell people, what is the priority you have? Someone's 80 pounds overweight, they really don't want to be worrying about longevity, because until they get their weight under control, longevity is out of the question. And I think that's more important and, you know, as we go through this tonight, to just remember, but I love this one for people that are, you know, in their, you know, late 40s, 50s, 60s, and they're doing everything right, they're exercising, they're dieting, right? And they just want to have a background protocol to kind of cover their bases as they they age gracefully.

Speaker 7  53:55
Well, Said, Okay, so now we're in the cognitive enhancement and focus. Who can't have more cognitive enhancement and focus? Okay, so cerebral Eisen Hunter, I'll let you do the next two. I'll just hit this one. Cerebral Eliza is, without doubt, the biggest needle moving. You know, call it neurogenerous, neurogenesis, stimulating neuro nootropic enhancing peptide that we know of it has a very weird reputation. There are obviously various governing medical boards that look down on doctors that are prescribing this or, you know, writing this off label to their patients. We've heard a lot of horror stories. We've heard of people having their practices suspended for promoting this product. I mean, it is a very weird one, I will tell you this that our good friends in the Baltic communities literally carry massive boluses of cerebral eyes and em EMT emergency vehicles. And whenever somebody suffers a severe cardiac event or a brain a traumatic brain injury, they give them a massive amount of cerebral eyes. And because of how powerful it is and reviving people, and also saving people from severe brain injury, hypoxia, all these other things. So it is incredible. Needle moving, peptide for again, you know, enhancing neurogenesis and saving the brain. It also does all sorts of things to improve people that have early onset neurodegenerative disease like dementia, Alzheimer's, Lou Gehrig's. There are other diseases we know clinicians and also researchers and very, very wealthy people who have basically taken massive dosages cerebral IC and completely reversed early stage Alzheimer's and dementia. It's a very interesting peptide. It's hard to get it, as many of you guys know, in fact, most of the, let's say, call it available. You know, stacks supply of cerebral iOS and is in ampules coming out of the international community. So it's like hard to find it in multi dose vials. But when you can find it, or when you find somebody that can can make it in multi dose files. Well, first off, let me at Hunter know. But secondarily, if you can get it, I would acquire large amounts of, excuse me, because it is a very, very, very powerful peptide in helping people that have again cerebral issues, or, you know, again early onset neurodegenerative disease. Go ahead. Hunter, yeah,

Speaker 8  56:24
I'll say a lot of the the nootropic peptides are going to go through after this. They kind of are compliments to cerebral eyes, and so by themselves, the ones that we'll talk about further down, they're they work. And I always preface some of the nootropic peptides as people's neurochemistry varies so wildly from person to person that something that someone could use could make them feel the best ever, and another person could maybe not feel anything or maybe feel worse. Now, the ones we're going to talk about most people, they're either going to make them feel really good, or they might not feel anything at all. There's two ones you probably have heard of called C max and C link. And we actually like what are called the in acetyl amidate versions of both of those. So I'll talk about both of them. We have in acetyl C max amid a and kind of think of this as if, if one is an upper and the other is a downer, C max is more of the upper meaning it kind of helps stimulate brain energy and kind of gives you more of that nootropic cognitive effect that everyone's looking for, you know, like the limitless pill from the movie Limitless, but basically just works to enhance focus, memory and clarity. It also reduces stress and helps support resilience to stress, and then also protects neurons from oxidative stress. This one's really easy. It's just 300 to 600 micrograms injected daily, and you can use it as a spray as well. If you're gonna do the spray, you want to probably do closer to, like one milligram, just because there's obviously less bioavailability with the spray than that. And then you can use it for four to six weeks on a lot of people will use these just kind of a use case in an area where they want to feel more of a nootropic effect for the following 24 hours or so. Then we have C length, so it's kind of a compliment to C max. Some people may use C max in the morning or C link in the evening, or you could use them both together, but C link works to again. It's going to help with resilience to stress, but it has much more of an anxiolytic effect. So it kind of has that calming effect. You can use both of them together, actually, to help drive focus, but also kind of have a calm focus, if you wanted to mix them together. But like I said, some people use them in the morning, some people use them in the or some people use C max in the morning and then see like in the evening. But see like helps them modulate GABA and serotonin pathways. So it's going to reduce anxiety without making you feel necessarily sleepy again. It's going to enhance memory and focus like C max does, and also to kind of just help support a more balanced mood. But again, I wouldn't say major needle movers, but for someone that may be struggling either with depression, anxiety or the ability to focus, they definitely can enhance the effect a little bit. And again, I like the N acetyl amidate versions of those are just more of an extract version that works a little bit better than the typical versions do. Yeah,

Speaker 7  59:03
well said. And just so you guys know, with the amidate and the AM, you know, the NA amid a na amidade on C max and so, like, this is just like ways that the research community is, I wouldn't say, adulterating, but modifying the chemical formulation to avoid, like, you know, the issues with the quote, unquote, Big Pharma or the patent holder, you know, coming after people. I mean, they really don't care. I mean, the only people that really, truly cares, as some of you know right now, is Eli Lilly. I mean, Eli Lilly is on the war path, and they're going after everyone, including research. They're also going after compound pharmacies. The whole situation is an absolute mess. If you guys have questions about that, we can talk about that we have one of the world's leading peptide regulatory attorneys that governs and counsels us for our company. So we we're pretty much in the know and what's going on in there. So if you guys have questions, I would say table that, and we'll answer those later. So P 21 again, it's another neuronal repair and regeneration peptide, not as well known as the other ones that we just mentioned, but it does in the clinical literature, does show significant benefit, and again, in the use cases of just the experiential learning from people in the research community, they like this. It seems to help better with people that had severe PTSD, severe TB eyes, you know, law enforcement personnel, military first responder types that have been in impact or collisions or even detonations. It seems to be really, really effective. Once again, it's also pretty expensive peptide if you find it. So if you can find it, you know, and you can get large boluses, multi multi vial, multi use files. I would I would highly recommend finding it, because it's definitely really good for what it is. And again, as Hunter has been showing you know, I haven't really been talking about most of these peptides. You want to use them for eight to 12 weeks. We don't want to go longer. People who are more experienced, I would say, probably six to eight weeks, newbies, First Time Users eight to 12, and that's because there is antibody build up in the in these tissues, which again, is receptor attenuation. And obviously the peptide now is not from as a signaling molecule, is not as strong in that person's body. We can talk in the quotes, I mean, in the Q and A session about resetting receptors with low dose Naltrexone. We can talk about that, but I don't. I don't really like people using low dose Naltrexone to continually stay on a peptide. I like taking a equal time off, or at least a half the time off before going back to the peptide again, depending on the clinical use and the critical need or critical issues of the of the patient. Okay, so melanin, 10, one, and then I'm going to let Hunter talk about the recap in this, because this is my favorite peptide. I was probably one of the first people. Maybe I was the first person in the history of the world before seeds to talk about melanin 10, one's ability to raise consciousness. So I started using this peptide in 2008 might have even been 2007 I don't remember, but I've been using peptide since 2004 so close to 21 years. But I noticed that as I took a micro dose of this peptide, I would be able to get into stillness, you know, mind silence, whatever you want to call it, you know, being in nature and just being still, and being able to, like, drown out the drunk monkey and, you know all the background noise. And I wasn't until I wrote my book, The t o t Bible in 2018 that I started reading the research of Dr Frank Barr. And if you guys are not familiar with Frank Barr, good luck finding anything, because Google has literally erased this man from the clinical literature. But he was the world's leading researcher on melanin, Corto receptor complex formations, and his work in understanding melanin, as he called it, The God molecule, is insane. And thankfully, I did some, some of his research, and some of his citations I linked to in my book The t o t Bible from 2017 which was published in 2018 and now, when I go into PubMed or into some of the medical research clouds, I can't find the information. It's like they've just systemically erased his information. But again, if you really understand melanin, and you understand the profound nature of melanin, it's like a self regulating, energetic bio molecule. It does so many different things, but you guys know it is, you know, using a microdose of it will increase melanin formation in the skin so you can, you know, grab, develop a gradual tan. Why I like this peptide for tanning is, is it doesn't turn you orange, it doesn't make people it doesn't make you look like an Oompa Loompa. It only naturally gives you a gradient of what's your maximum melanin formation. So if you're like a white ginger person, you might turn a little bit pink. If you're a, you know, a darker, complected brown eyed person, you're going to get a nice golden tan. If you're someone like me, it will literally, if you use it as a micro dose, over time, it will literally darken your skin, almost what I would say, permanently, because I, you know, I'm a white boy from the Midwest. I was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, and now I'm a dark guy that looks like he lives in Florida, is in the sun all the time, and it's just honestly because I've been using a microdose of melanatan for about 15 years. But again, in addition to obviously tanning your skin, it does have the ability to what I consider enhanced consciousness. Now for those of you guys familiar with seeds work, you know seeds is also a big believer in melanin, 10, one, he talks about it also having the ability to stimulate hyper sexuality, or hyper sexual function at different dosing protocols. So again, this is a very interesting peptide, I think, for this presentation, in this use case, I think, you know, a micro dose is best. And as you see in there, depending on whether you're doing it for consciousness, would be 250 if you're doing it for maybe canning, you might want to do 500 micrograms. A lot of people ask me, do you have to be in the sun when you use Melanie 10, one to get a darkened skin color? And the answer is, it helps, but it's not necessary.

Speaker 8  1:04:59
Are you all right, yep. And just for those syringes, we can definitely make mix the C max and the C link together, if you wanted to, and then cerebral eyes. And obviously that comes completely separate from the rest of the peptides. Comes in ample so you'd want to keep that separate from the rest of them. But other than that, you keep everything separate. And just to summarize, we've obviously got cerebral is much for the case of neuro regeneration and preventing neuro degeneration works amazing. And that's kind of the godfather of the rest of them. And then C, C, Max and C link work really well P 21 and then my 10 one, I will add in for P 21 and I only know this because we have an awesome community of people that follow us and send this message and stuff. I've heard multiple parents of children with autism say that P 21 because you actually can use it as a nasal spray, enhances children with autism effects that they would have. So that's a pretty cool anecdotal effect that I've heard from people, but that sums it up. And again, cerebral eye since kind of king of all those, and the rest are just kind of supporting characters when we talk about neurodegeneration and preventing cognitive decline,

Speaker 7  1:06:07
yeah, along the lines of autistic kids who are like full spectrum, I think it, from what we understand, they've become more community communicative, correct? Yeah,

Speaker 8  1:06:17
I've, I've heard, I've gotten messages from parents that have kids that were non verbal, that ended up talking more or were very low verbal and just were better able to emote and express and communicate verbally. So it's pretty powerful in that sense. And the interesting about P 21 is it actually is a component of cerebral Eliza makes up a couple peptides. So P 21 is one of the peptides, it seems to revolve in itself.

Speaker 7  1:06:43
Okay, awesome. So auto immune. So this might be the most important part of this presentation, because, as you guys all know, and gals, there are a lot of people battling the demonic effects of the vaccine, and many people who have been, you know, injected twice and multiple boosters have completely compromised immune system. So we have actually Hunter and I have actually created a PDF that we don't really promote or publish because we don't want to be deleted or canceled in culture or from our websites or obviously our online persona. So if you are interested, we do have a PDF that we will be happy to send you that is essentially a vaccine protocol that we have used with a numerous amount of people, and they have had tremendous results with it. So anyway, ask us about that at the end, but to get into peptides that will help with people who have immune immunocompromisation, or, again, have just have autoimmune issues, I think you guys all know that, like autoimmune diseases and diagnosis is an hour off the chart. There's one. Seems like anybody can go to any doctor and get five autoimmune diagnosis these days. And again, a lot of this is due to, you know, being compromised from the jab. But bottom line is thymus and alpha one. Again, most of you guys know it is Ta One hunter, and I don't travel anywhere in the world without taking this with us. I take a shot of this before I get on a plane and before I get all after I get off, especially if I'm traveling in the international community, it is very, very powerful in strengthening the immune system. Again, this is also now an FDA approved drug for many different reasons, but obviously it's also widely available in the research community, and it's actually rather cheap. You would think that a drug like this would be much more expensive, but you can get it for, you know, I would consider it, you know, very cost effective. Matters one milligram sub continuously, two to three times per week. There are people out there, clinicians included, that will literally dose 1/3 of that, and they micro dose every single day when they wake up in the morning. So it really just comes down to the, you know, your level of, you know, immune, immunization, or your level of immunity at any given point in time in the year. If you travel a lot internationally, or travel a lot by plane, I highly recommending using thymus and alpha one a lot. Go ahead, honor,

Speaker 8  1:08:58
yeah. Ll 30 LL, 37 is a really, really cool anti microbial peptide. So it's antiviral, anti fungal, antibacterial, and it modulates immune activity, and it's going to reduce a lot of inflammation in the body. So what's really cool about it is, if someone has infection, it works. If you have a toe fungus, you can inject it near your toe fungus or use it topically to help with a toe fungus. And I think people too, again, to go back to the autoimmune whether it's long COVID or vaccine injury, it works really well to help heal some of that residual inflammation and or infections that might be hanging around, but basically just works to reduce systemic and localized inflammation. What's also really cool about it too is because it's more of a modulator, it's going to work in the body to heal some of these microbial infections, or what have you, without necessarily killing the gut bacteria. So obviously, it's it's a really cool alternative to antibiotics, because antibiotics, although sometimes needed, obviously have pretty bad side effects, in some cases, depending on how long you use them and the type of antibiotics. So, Ll, 37 I think for someone that may have an infection, is really cool, first line defense before you would go to antibiotics that you could use and potentially solve the issue, or if we at least not make it better. But it works really, really powerfully. I mean, I love it. I noticed when I've used it in the past, too. It also helps with skin, because obviously our skin is an organ that sometimes, if we have, like acne or eczema or any of those things, they can, you know, be healed through modulating some of the inflammatory factors driven by those things. So LL, 37 is awesome. You do want to start at a really low dose of this. So sometimes, if people start at too high of a dose, they can actually have an immune reaction to the LL 37 so I always say start at like 100 micrograms, and then titrate up. You can go as high as two to 300 micrograms. But you really wouldn't need to go much higher than that for a period of like four to eight weeks, and then take four to four to eight weeks off, just to make sure that you're getting the most bang for your buck out of it. Go ahead. Take KPV too. Yeah. KPV is really cool. It actually comes from the same family of peptides that melantan one does. So it's actually a melanocortin one receptor peptide, but it doesn't have any of the tanning effects, and it is isolated to help with inflammation. So it reduces systemic inflammation and a lot of these autoimmune related symptoms. I think it is actually most powerful in relation to gut health. So you can actually take this orally for your gut, but if you inject it, it works to heal systemic inflammation as well as inflammation the gut. This one, in my experience, just in my own personal use and the people we've worked with, does really, really well to help with those gut symptoms that a lot of times of the precursors or associated with whatever autoimmune disease it is. In doing so, it also helps a ton with eczema or acne or some of those other skin inflammation conditions that come from the autoimmune but this one, if you were injecting, it would be 500 micrograms subcutaneously daily, and you would do that again for four to eight weeks, and I'd say for gut health purposes. So if it's more of like a gut type autoimmune disease that someone's struggling with, I would do both. So I would do the sub q injection, and then I would do the capsules. If you're using the capsules, it would actually be 500 milligrams, not micrograms, that you would use for that. Use it for four to eight weeks. I just

Speaker 7  1:12:18
want to say, and again, I know we're not allowed to promote, but we have a new product that is the strongest oral gut enhancer, gut regulator, gut improver, product, which we can talk about after this that is unbelievable. And so far, the people that have been using are raving about it. VIP, vaso active intestinal peptide. I think a lot of you guys probably are familiar with this peptide, because this was the peptide that was banned in a lot of er rooms and emergency hospitals when they were intubating people during the COVID fiasco, when they first thought that COVID was an airway disease, and then they found out that it was obviously starving The heme of the red blood cells, and, you know, in oxygen mediated cells. So like, as soon as you intubated somebody, especially a comorbid person, you were killing all these people. Don't even get me going. But some doctors who were smart and obviously progressive started using VIP with their patients, and in lieu of intubating them, and it was like curing them immediately of what COVID, or whatever the health people thought COVID was so again, it's a very powerful, you know, systemic inflammation and immune suppressor. It does enhance vascular function because, again, it opens the airwaves and is super, super effective and obviously improving autoimmune conditions, especially in people that have very, very critical autoimmune compromisation. Improves gut motility and intestinal intestinal permeability, too. And again, as we found out, during COVID, it protects lung tissue. So the dosing is, again, a microdose intranasally a couple of times a day. In comorbid people, you can inject them because obviously they may have compromised sinus passages and just can't really do the intranasal so you can inject them, but obviously it's mostly widely used as an intranasal spray, and again, the use cases for eight to 12 weeks, I would highly recommend that you use this peptide in very critically ill and comorbid people and not use it willy nilly for, you know, healthier people, for healthier people, as Hunter just said, I would, I would focus on LL, 37 KPV and TA one. Okay, so BPC, 157, TB, 500 not going to spend a lot of time on this, because this is probably the most famous peptide combo in the world. We all know about the angiogenesis and the inflammation suppression. TB, 500 offers. I mean, this is, again, we call it the Wolverine healing stack. What I will say and what I want to add, and Hunter and I need to update this. And we will is that there is a new injectable bio regulator known as car de lax. And without, like, jumping up and down and telling you it's the greatest thing since sliced bread, it is the greatest thing since sliced bread. We just don't have enough data on this yet. But again, when you hear the name cartilage, what do you think? You think cartilage so far in the people that we know have used this, and again, we only have about three or four months of use case of this, because as of four or five months ago, if you were not in Russia or Bulgaria, you didn't have access to this. It seems, I swear. I know this is going to sound panacea and crazy, but it seems to heal and regenerate cartilage. Now, obviously, as you guys know, for people that have you know, compromised discs and no space and no synovial fluid and bone on bone and all that like this is the holy grail, right, something that stem cells and exosomes won't do anything for but it seems like cartilage does have this unique ability to stimulate, if not regenerate, cartilage. When you combine car, excuse me, cartilage with TBC, 157 TB, 500 and copper peptide, ghkcu, it might be the magical healing stack that is unrivaled and unequaled yet. So we will put up a slide about car de lax eventually in this presentation. And of course, if you guys have more questions at the end, we can talk about it. But I would add, if I was acutely injured or had a severe, you know, soft tissue tendon, this tendon, tendon issue, or even ligament tear or destruction, that's what I would be using bppc, TB, 500 ghkcu and cartillex together. Okay, Hunter, talk about Reddit, true tide, yeah.

Speaker 8  1:16:27
And actually, I added that down to the healing stack, because we do have a healing protocol in this one, so Carla's there. But again, related to autoimmune issues, you know, a lot of people have rheumatoid arthritis, or some of these things, it could work really, really well systemically. So red a true tide. You're probably thinking, is this the wrong slide for red a true tide? Because it's an auto immune stack. It's actually not. If you look at auto immune disease a lot, or I would say a lot of the precursor, or driving, driving factor to auto immune disease is insulin resistance. And believe it or not, I think my opinion, based on what I've seen and what Jay has seen, is that a lot of people that are experiencing symptoms of autoimmune disease, it's really kind of a manifestation of insulin resistance and pre diabetes, and they just don't have the genetic predisposition to get obese. And so a lot of times you see this autoimmune disease manifest in someone that might not be obese, where someone that might manifest is obesity, and another person that manifests is autoimmune disease, and it's really insulin resistance because of poor diet, poor lifestyle, poor eating habits, poor training habits, and just a lack of care for the body. So where does the GOP one family fit into this? Well, if we think about this idea of inflammation and managing the insulin cycle in the body and optimizing the insulin cycle in the body, this is where a really, really low dose of a GLP one, and especially right of true tide does well. So obviously it works to suppress inflammation, because that inflammation that inflammation that a lot of times someone without immune disease is experiencing is linked to insulin resistance, and it's like we were talking about earlier, it's going to have all these different things that it does to improve biomarkers in the body, and doing so is going to reduce oxidative stress, and then it's going to support tissue healing via improved cellular energy, because we're raising the metabolism the body. So a super micro dose of retrutide would be point two, five milligrams, three times per week. And you may think that's crazy and say like, oh well, this person has autoimmune disease or not fat or not diabetic, but we have seen countless time and time again, people heal autoimmune disease or these symptoms that mask themselves as autoimmune disease from using a GLP, one like right at true tide. You'll probably see more of it in clinical literature related to appetite, just because that's the data set that we have now at the time. But it does amazing to heal auto immune disease. And you could even use a lower dose than someone that's looking to have fat loss.

Speaker 7  1:18:55
Yep, you want to take syringe compatibility too. Yep.

Speaker 8  1:19:00
So you could with these. You could mix thymosin alpha one and LL, 37 KPV mix mixes really well with BPC and TB, 500 you can even do cartilage with that too. So it's just this so fresh and new. We haven't updated this yet with it, but VIP, obviously that's gonna be separate. And if you're nasal spray, you want to keep that separate. And then red, true time, because there's GOP one, but I keep that separate from all these. Yep.

Speaker 7  1:19:24
So summary, I think we already covered all these. So you guys, again, if you guys want this presentation, you know, we'll be happy to give it to you. Just got to pay us 100 bucks each. No, I'm just kidding, gut health. So again, we're moving down here. So again, I'm going to go fast over gut health and BPC and TV 500 I think you guys know how profound this is for, obviously, overall, systemic, soft tissue healing, but it also will dramatically injecting it will also help the microbiome. Again, the oral formulations of this in the marketplace now level up again. One of our competitors, I know the owner is amazing guy. And again, he was first to market the oral versions of these products are amazing. Each of you should be using them in your in your clinical practices with people that have, you know, SIBO, dysbiosis, you know, any kind of inflammatory issues in their microbiomes. And again, as Hunter and I like to tell people, autoimmune diagnosis is rather than diseases are really mostly just a diagnosis of a person who is inflamed metabolically, if you give them some of these very powerful oral call them, you know, angiogenics and anti inflammatories, whatever you Want to call with KPV, BPC, TV, 500 pea, all these amazing, very powerful immunode modulators of the gut, you will be amazed at how fast their their quote, unquote, diagnosis or disorder will will clear. KPV, again, we've already talked about this. Also, another very powerful one, oral, from an oral ingestion standpoint, dramatically improves and lowers inflammation in the gut, skin and other tissues. Again, without promoting our product, we have a kitchen sink product that has literally every single one of these peptides in it, and it is the strongest oral product in the marketplace. And for the people that are taking it, we've had some celebrities take it. We've had some very famous, you know, a list people that have been using it, and they're raving about it already. In fact, over the weekend at the West Palm a for M conference, we were giving away samples to it, and we had so many people come up to the booth saying, you know, and again, these are not healthy people already, but they've kept saying that, wow, it really helped my nausea, my nauseous feeling, or it helped my gassy feeling. I want more of this. So it's a very strong product Hunter. You want to talk about tributron and pea?

Speaker 8  1:21:46
Yeah, so tributron is just a short chain fatty acid. It really helps to support the microbiome, especially the lower microbiome, down into the colon. So it's going to help with the gut barrier and then reduce inflammation. You'll see a lot of these. What they do is they work on the intestinal type junction and gut barrier function to prevent leaky gut or to heal leaky gut. And I think what's interesting about this is, because of the exposure, at least here in the United States, that we have to non organic food, and it's almost impossible, even if you're eating from home, but when you travel, even if you're eating healthy, that you're exposed to all this. So these are things that, personally, I just use in my day to day life. One I'm would like to think I'm pretty healthy metabolically, and I know all the stuff about peptides, but just when I'm exposed to these things, it just helps with that gut barrier integrity that we all kind of susceptible to because we're exposed to glyphosate and some of the other contaminants are out there. You know, for the times that we might not be able to control every single aspect of our food, but works really well just in the world capsules, you do 500 milligrams daily, just with meals, you know, in 812, weeks or until symptoms resolve. And the next one is pea. I'm not even going to begin to try to pronounce the long form of PA, but it's a little bit derived compound, again, is going to help with gut inflammation and actually neuropathic pain by modulating the endocannabinoid system and mast cells. So it helps with inflammation and pain and some of that chronic pain that people will have in gut related conditions, and also helps with the immune response in the gut if we're experiencing kind of that gut slash autoimmune disease going on there, and again, it's gonna enhance gut barrier integrity as well. And this one is 300 to 600 milligrams daily in an oral capsule. And like Jason, we're not promoting but we do have all these mixing the products, where you can get them all at once, or you can go source them yourselves. That's totally cool, too. The next one's actually, I'll talk about lorazepa. This one's pretty cool, because it was originally looked at and it was an orphan drug for celiac disease, so it never was actually brought to market, probably because they could just never get good patents on it to make money off of it. But it works really well to help people one that have celiac disease, but to also restore the gut barrier integrity again, so reduces the immune activation that a lot of times people experience from celiac disease that causes the inflammation, the bloating and the nausea and the stomach upset, but also kind of helps some of those autoimmune related gut issues as well. So think loraze, think celiac for people with gluten sensitivities, but then also to think people think he got of really doing a good job to help with the gut barrier integrity. So this one, again, 500 micrograms daily. It's just an oral capsule, does really well, but you can look it up literature, sometimes you wonder why some of these things aren't brought to market. Because it was, it was more publicly facing so many people now that have gluten sensitivities or issues with gluten, could benefit to use this. And I think for someone, even without celiacs, like myself, I'll eat bread from time to time. I don't eat it every day or anything like that, but it does definitely reduce any sort of bloating or anything like that that you get from eating bread, especially if it's not organic sourdough bread that's made from the finest grains that haven't been confirmed.

Speaker 7  1:25:07
I think you guys all know, man, that if you travel the world, like Hunter and I do, and you come back to the United States, and you start eating, versus like Mexico or New Zealand or Australia, the food is so bad here, compared to like food outside of here, like they don't have the chemicals and the additives, and it's just, and you find out, like, what they're doing to us fast anyway. SS 31 we've already covered this. This is a very powerful amplifier peptide from a healing standpoint. It does a lot of improving or removing oxidative damage in the guts. It obviously enhances mitochondrial energy for gut lining repair, and then, of course, it also reduces systemic and gut specific inflammation. The dose for this is two milligram daily. I mean, truthfully, Hunter and I use a lot lower dose. We use kind of probably like 400 or 500 micrograms, and probably inject every other day. And as I said, this thing does so many amazing things. You know, this is one of those peptides that Ryan Smith, if you guys remember Ryan Smith, you know, the CEO of true diagnostic and previously, of tailor made fame. Loves again. He calls it the amplifier peptide, which I agree with him 100% I think this peptide should be in your rotation regardless of what your goals are, syringe compatibility. So BPC, TB and KPV, of course, can be mixed together. So can cartillax with that. SS 31 and kpb can also be mixed for convenience. Lorostide acetate, of course, should is an oral peptide and cannot be combined with injectables. And then tributary and PAEA are also oral supplements and are taken separately from injectable again, as orals, many of them can be combined. In fact, one of our products does that level ups. Product also does that, but also very, very powerful gut motility, or not gut motility, but gut microbiome cleansing peptides. So the summary, really quick. I think we already covered all these things. All these can be used in combination orally. In fact, when they are, I mean, SS 30 White is not available orally, but the rest of them are, and when combined orally, they create a much stronger product than any of them used in isolation. And again, Hunter and I have always been very outspoken about the, you know, mechanism of action of oral peptides in comparison to the highest impact delivery system, which is always injectable. We've come a long way in the last six to eight months with these oral formulations due to, you know, a lot of the particulates that we're now putting in them that enhance absorption, like pea like tributron. So just don't give up on oral products. Now, it seems like there's going to be a lot better. You know, you've got people like Jim Laval and some of these other people are creating lipo. What do you call it? Lipo, polysaccharide versions of them, you know, enhancing the absorption through the salivary glands and enzymes and stuff like that. So we're on the right path to getting better oral products in the very near future. Okay, heart health. Go ahead. Hunter, yeah. So

Speaker 8  1:28:09
a lot of these in the heart health are gonna be repeats, so we'll just kind of talk about them as framed for heart health. Obviously, heart health is number one killer people. Today, actually wrote an email to my email list today about one of the ones we're going to talk about, which is cardiogen, just about the devastating nature of heart disease in our world today, still the number one killer. So run a true tide. Obviously, we've beat that horse tonight again. We regulate the insulin cycle. We improve inflammaging in the body. The heart's going to be healthier. We're going to improve lipid markers. We're going to improve blood sugar, we're going to do all those things upstream to improve heart health. So it's not direct. But again, if you look, I was actually just to, just to hint on GLP ones and heart health. And this was with semaglutide or ozempic. I was talking to one of the heads of the Georgia State Health Department, and he oversees, like, Medicaid payouts or something like that at one of our events, and he was telling me that right now, all they want to do is get GLP ones into the hands of people. Because he says the reduction in the amount of Medicaid payments they pay out to people with heart attacks that are on GLP ones is dramatic and, like exponential, how much better people are doing once they're on GLP ones, in terms of having an ad that adverse cardiac event after that. So GLP ones, because of what they do upstream to insulin signaling, have a massive effect downstream on heart health, and ultimately, what it's going to do when we talk about having a heart attack or something of that nature. So red, true, tight again. You know, point five milligrams, three times per week for 12 to 24 weeks, is going to put someone on the right path for that.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:50
Okay? BBC TV 500 keep going, yep. And

Speaker 8  1:29:53
then BBC TB, 500 obviously, we know these as inflammation, suppressing peptides. When we look at the context of the heart, it's going to promote healing of blood vessels and cardiac tissue, particularly the TB 500 they both work well together, but the TB 500 and PPC really help one if someone is vascularly impaired or has, you know, some sort of vascular dysfunction. But then also to after heart related injuries. So for instance, a heart attack, ischemia, anything of that nature, it actually helps to repair after that from the trauma that happens there. So again, not sexy. Those are the two most basic peptides. But in terms of heart health, they work really well there. Moving along to SS 31 this works really, really well. Again, we've talked about all the mechanisms of tonight, but because of what it does to mitochondrial function, it actually works in the heart cells to prevent oxygen damage that someone may have from heart disease or either, you know, an adverse cardiac event. So again, we talk about mitochondrial health. It relates to everything, and particularly with the health of the heart to go down to Ara 290 that's one we haven't talked about tonight, so I'll spend a little bit of time on this one in time on this one, and then the next one, cardiogen. So this was actually built as a way, if anyone remembers Lance Armstrong, he was taking EPOS called blood doping back. No,

Speaker 7  1:31:14
he's a cheater. I forgot about him. Yeah, exactly. We

Speaker 8  1:31:17
call it vacating. They vacate the wins or the victories, or whatever, but it was originally developed as an offshoot of EPO, and actually helps with basically diabetic neuropathy, but in doing so, it improves vascular health and improves endothelial function, and then also enhances blood flow in The endothelial tissue, so it reduces inflammation, improves vascular repair and also enhances blood flow and oxygen delivery to tissues. So dosage wise, we can use about one milligram to two milligrams a day for that, and just do a sub q injection for 3060, days of it. But it works really well with that, again, because of what it does for blood flow and improving endothelial function, it does a lot of times, help with diabetic neuropathy, but at the same time, it's going to help with heart health, too. And again, if we think about heart disease as the stiffening and the hardening of our vascular networks, this is going to be one that's going to help with that. And again, it was actually made as an offshoot of EPO to not have any of the side effects that would come from using too much EPO, and that leads us to cardiogen. So we're getting really deep now into these injectable bio regulators, which, as far as we have seen, have a lot of promise. And again, they've been used in Russia for 5060, plus years now, but they're just kind of making their way into the West, and we're just starting to get them out through research chemical companies like the ones that we have, but it is the bio regular peptide that actually works specifically on heart tissue. So to back up for a second, bio regular peptides are specific change of peptides that actually work on a specific organ within the body. So the cardiogen, by a regulator, is an amino acid sequence that actually goes to work on specific cardiac tissue in the body to help heal. And what they do that's really cool is it works to improve gene expression to reflect a younger state in that specific tissue. So when we take cardiogen, it's going to go work specifically at the heart tissue level, and help to work with gene expression to reverse the aging of gene expression and heart tissue, and in doing so, it's going to provide long term cardiac function. But then also, too, they actually in rodent studies with this it's been used in Russia for decades, in humans, but in rodent studies, after rodents were induced with heart attacks, they actually lived three times longer when using cardiogen After the heart attack than the ones that didn't. So even for someone that has had a heart attack event, they respond well after this. So pretty simple dosing. You could kind of play with the dosing on these, but I like two milligrams a day for you know, you could do 10 to 20 days. I'd probably do like, the more severe it is, the longer I would use it so you could give up like 30 or 60 days, depending on the severity of the heart disease. But cardiogenic is one that has been showing a lot of promise lately. And even for someone without heart disease, you probably are going to notice a mild performance enhancement benefit just because you're improving blood flow and vascular networks around the body. So again, we don't have a huge sample size of people in the West using these, but in Russia, they've been used for decades, and a lot of times it's a really, really good effect. Well

Speaker 7  1:34:30
said, my brother, peptides, it can be mixed together of what we just talked about, BPC, TV, 500 SS 31 for sure. AR, 290 and SS 31 also for sub q separately, is run a true tight again, because it's a GOP at three stage GOP, and then, of course, a cardiogen taken separately. As Hunter said, I'll just recap the bio the bio regulator. Injectables are a whole new class of medicine, slash substances, strangely enough, they are considered supplements by grass and really by the internet marketing community. So like you know, there's really no risk at this point right now in promoting them or selling them versus injectable peptides, which are obviously still considered gray and for research purposes only. It's a really weird, really weird world we're in right now. We are truly in the wild, wild west of regenerative medicine. Who knows for how much longer things are going to stay the way they are. I think that most people because RFK is in and Trump is in, and let's just call it this, where we're at. This segment of health optimization is kind of the decentralization of medicine. This is like the crypto of optimized healthcare, and it seems like authorities are kind of a hands off policy. You know, our attorney will tell us, don't kill anybody. There's a lot of people with a demand for, you know, these substances, because obviously they offer healing in numerous ways, again, from the VAX, from autoimmune disease and disorder and dysregulation. So we're in a very, very strange time. The summary of these, again, we've already covered all of these things. This slide deck will be available to you guys. This is, I think this is the last section of this, of this presentation, correct? I

Speaker 8  1:36:11
think we have intra healing and sexual health. Okay, so

Speaker 7  1:36:14
we're gonna blow through this, you guys. Because, first off, I'm getting tired. I've been presenting all day. I had a tooth removed recently, and so I have my stitches taken out today, so I'm physically exhausted, but I promise that we'll get through this presentation and then leave some time permit for you guys questions. I'm not even going to talk about BBC and TB, 500 again, this is known as the Wolverine healing stack. If you throw ghkcu and cartillex into it, it makes it even better. Already covered ghkcu. Tessa morellen, you know, from a healing standpoint, it has a lot of things that it does in a lot of the clinical studies. It improves geriatric patients physical health. It obviously enhances protein synthesis and reduces recovery time after injuries. I mean, again, the primary thing that it shows is improving body composition to more muscle and less fat, and it has a significant ability to reduce visceral fat. Hunter, I'll let you talk about peg mgf.

Speaker 8  1:37:11
Yeah, so peg mgf is really, really cool. It's actually a better, more improved version of mgf, which is known as mechano growth factor. What it's really doing is it's increasing localized IGF, one production at the site of injury to help with repair. So it actually kind of came from the body building world, where it was used to people are using it to, like, hopefully, grow muscle via a site injection, and actually didn't do that effectively. But what it did do was help with muscle repair. So basically, it's just going to help accelerate recovery at a specific injury site that you're injecting it. I remember the first time I used it. I mixed it with BPC and TB 500 and I was like, whoa. I noticed the I injected, and I think I put a muscle on my back or something. It's like, Man, I that went away. The pain went away. Like a day, where usually might take a day or two. So it works really well. You just use 200 micrograms alongside some of these other ones and inject it into the injury site. And again, it's not really going to move the needle for injecting into muscle after training to make your muscles grow bigger, but it does help with injury repair and trauma at the local site. And then lastly, we have cartilage. So this is the big one. We're all in the cartilage train right now. You know, I made a couple videos about it, and Jane and I have been talking about it, but it really does seem to have an outsized effect to BPC and TB, 500 in terms of repairing cartilage and then also potentially regenerating cartilage tissue. So that will stand the test of time, but it definitely stimulates cartilage regeneration and damaged joints. It reduces joint pain and stiffness, and ultimately, too for people with systemic inflammation, you could use it subcutaneously injected, just in the belly fat, to kind of help with systemic pain and inflammation in the joints. But you can also use it to inject into an injury site or trauma site to really accelerate recovery. And in my experience, so far, it blows BPC and TV 500 out of the water. I know that that sounds funny coming from the peptide guys that talk about that all the time, but it really, really is an amazing bio regulator that we've Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:39:15
I would, I would highly recommend, if you guys have elderly patients with joint and soft tissue injuries, you know, old war injuries, you should immediately get them on this, because the feedback is off the charts. It's pretty insane. Again. BPC, TV, Peg, mgf, GHK, all same, same syringe, of course. So can cartillex. Cartillex, obviously, to see the strongest, most, highest impact injected near the localized area of the injury, if you can test more on obviously, is best to inject into belly fat or into areas that have high visceral body fat pockets. Got that summary. I think we covered this sleep optimization. Is this? Is this a separate one, or is this?

Speaker 8  1:40:08
Scroll down, I thought I had a so this is just sleep optimization. Yes, I've got decent Okay,

Speaker 7  1:40:15
okay, that's fine. So we just needed to change that on the on the thing to have this right here, I knew there was something, so we just need a slide right there. So anyway, sorry, guys, we're still perfecting this. Okay, so sleep optimization, I think most of you guys know delta sleep inducing peptide. It helps to regulate sleep wake cycles. I mean, look, so many people today are fried due to EMF exposure due to sleeping next to their cell phones, plugging in their cell phones, having dissonant EMF frequencies running through their house. I just had the world's leading EMF expert, Brian Hoyer. Some of you guys know him. He's the EMF guy. His company is shielded healing. He just came to my house last Saturday. Why? I was at a 4m in West Palm and he did a giant EMF test in my house, you know, was here for four hours and gave me a report, and, you know, told me what to do to mitigate it. And I'll just tell you guys this, if you live in a major city, there is no avoiding anything at this point. You can get the Blue Shields, you know, you can get, you know, other resident frequency devices and technologies like verify, and there's so many, and you can put them in your house and they do something. But unless you're sleeping, and I'm not joking about this, unless you're sleeping in a Faraday cage, your body is being irradiated. And let me also tell you this, and this is definitely to scare you. If you sleep on a mattress that has metal springs or coils in it, you are a fried antenna. You are literally being bombarded by EMF frequency. I just got rid of the eight sleep, which, as you guys know, is the temperature controlled mattress, and I've been sleeping on, unfortunately, my wife and I for five years. And truthfully, we liked it. I liked sleeping like a bear. I like dropping the temperature to 55 degrees. But when he came into my house and he ran his gun on my mattress, it was like, oh my

Unknown Speaker  1:42:09
god,

Speaker 7  1:42:11
I'm sleeping on this. Like you guys cannot believe how bad and demonic that company is. If you're sleeping on that mattress, get rid of it. Get it out of your house immediately, you will thank me. Later, you will extend your life, but we all have issues sleeping today. Obviously this peptide is a strong peptide, but the first thing, and the most immediate thing you can do is mitigate harmful EMF, dissonant frequencies in your room. You can paint your walls literally with you know, the the shielded paint, and then repaint over it's not expensive. It's probably, like, if you have a normal size master bathroom or bedroom, it's probably going to cost you $1,100 to paint shielded, paint it, and then you can paint any color over it. So if your wife, or, you know, whoever, doesn't like the color of the shielded paint, you can just do a new remodel and repaint your bedroom, but doing that and then putting like, essentially, like, you know, a canopy around your bed, that's going to do more for your sleep than any peptide will. I mean, I've really drilled down the rabbit hole recently about all this stuff about how bad EMF frequencies are. But anyway, delta sleep inducing peptide, I think it's a hit or miss peptide. I think some people get an effect from it. But again, most people who are being annihilated by EMF are not going to notice very much from this. But again, there's the dosages for it. Tessa marelin, a very powerful growth hormone agonist peptide. It's G, H, R, H, if you take one to two milligrams right before you go to bed, in addition to, you know, tearing through visceral fat, it will also give a massive pulse of growth hormone, which should enhance polyphasic sleep and restorative sleep and get you into deeper REM the dose is anywhere from one to two milligrams before bed. Connor, go ahead, you cover. SS 31

Speaker 8  1:43:54
Yeah. SS 31 don't need to go too deep again, but again, optimize mitochondrial function. Everything gets better. So that one's pretty suited easy, same dose. Next one I'll talk a little bit about pinealong, because we haven't talked about that tonight. Is basically a another injectable by a regulator. It works on the central nervous system so it improves brain function and also helps to regulate our circadian rhythm. So that's where it really shines, in relation to sleep. You would inject it right before bed, and definitely makes people sleep better, and then also gives you more energy throughout the day, particularly because of what it's doing with the brain and helping regulate circadian rhythm and sleep wake cycles and everything. It also works to reduce oxidative stress inside the brain as well. It just comes from insulin resistance or anything else we may be dealing with. So this one, again, just one milligram sub q injected daily at night, before bed, usually is the best time. And you can do that for 1020, maybe even 30 days a couple times a year, similar to like epitalon or thymol. And you can actually combine it with epitalon and thymeline as well, if you wanted to. But I think more for the use case of sleep, you're going to use it more so than necessarily anti aging. But there's, I think there's oral capsules out there, but all the ones that we have are injectable. I think it's harder to find the oral capsules of the nail on and then lastly, I think the last one for this one's melantan one. We have that on here, again, not because it's a tanning peptide, but it actually works to potentiate the DCIP. So melantan One actually helps the delta sleep inducing peptide work better because of what it does to the melanocortin receptors. So that's why we have it on there, and you could take that before bed to potentially help with sleep as well.

Speaker 7  1:45:35
Sorry, I was moving it. Dr Bob was messaging me D Dr Bob, syringe capability, dsip plus melanin, 10, one definitely can be mixed together and then separately, would be Tessa Maryland, because, again, growth hormone and iganous peptides. Now, obviously you guys know that you can mix Tessa and IPA or CJC and IPA or Tesla and CJC and IPA and blah, blah, blah. A lot of people do that. I just as a point of return, I don't like mixing growth hormone agonist peptides, I know that the compounding and the research world loves to do that and a lot of women like to take CJC and nip it together. I don't like that I like taking these peptides in isolation, because I like to see what happens. Systemically to these people, you know, uniquely, because. with me that peptide Tessa Maryland and IPAM Allen together are the strongest bolus of growth hormone that one can get short of using human growth hormone. Okay, there's the summary of that. So this is the last slides of this presentation. Who gives a shit about sexual health? I think we can skip over this. No, I'm just kidding. PT, 141 brolimena tied again. This is a pharmaceutically FDA approved drug now that is outrageously and retardedly super expensive coming from a compounder, when you can buy it for like, 1/10 the cost in research. And there's really, honestly, it's a very easy and inexpensive drug to manufacture. It's not, it's there's no difference. You're not going to notice any difference from a research quality versus a compound pharmacy. I will say this 40% and again, this is an estimate no one really knows, but 40% of men do not respond to this drug. And Hunter, what would you say? Half of women get sick from using it. So it's one of those drugs where it's like, you know, it's all or nothing, like, some men will get a great response from it and have a direction that lasts four to six hours or even longer, and the woman that they're using it with gets sick and curls over. And so the man is like, there, saying, Oh, great, now what? So you got to be really, really cautious with this drug. But, and for those the people that does work, and I'm sure there's many of you on this call that it does work for, it's pretty nice, it's pretty amazing, I will definitely say, though, because it is a melanin cortoid receptor complex stimulator, be very cautious with your dosage. Always start low and go slow, because too high of a dosage can create extreme nausea and make people literally keel over and be keeled over for hours at a time. How do you want to talk about oxytocin? Yeah,

Speaker 8  1:48:09
so I love oxytocin. I think for the people that either get sick or don't respond well to PT 141 oxytocin would be a cool alternative, not necessarily from like the erection side of things or arousal side of things, but I think more from the pair bonding side of things. It really works to create an environment into which, if you set intention with your partner that you guys want to like, spend time together and really enjoy company together and emotionally connect. It works more on that side of things. So not so much the physical stimulation arousal, but much more from like the emotional and psychological side of things. So again, everyone knows what oxytocin is. I don't have to tell you guys, but it just helps, helps with the pair bonding. Dosing wise, you can use it intra nasal and that would do like 50 to 100 micrograms intranasally, 20 to 40 minutes before activity, at least. And then for injection, I would start a little bit lower. You could do 25 to 50 micrograms, 20 to 40 minutes before I will say this give yourself the reason I say 20 to 40 minutes is one that takes this about how long it takes for the onset, but also two, it can induce a bowel movement in people. And so usually that's the last thing you're thinking about before you're about to enjoy time with your partner. But just give that little window because and then men and women is known to induce bowel movements. And I'll say if you're constipated as well, you can use oxytocin that will usually get things moving in the right direction. Most

Speaker 7  1:49:35
of you guys know about Cialis. It's used it's equal it's used equally well in men and women outside of the sexual performance enhancement. It obviously is a very, very powerful endothelial function enhancer. Most people have very poor endothelial function because there are fucking dumpster fires in America, unfortunately today. So you're not going to get the effect that to Battlefield will give a healthier cellular person. 2.5 to five milligrams a day is really the, probably the recommended dose for men. It does cause receptor attenuation and desensitization. Unfortunately, I know many men who literally can't even use Cialis anymore because it stopped working because they relied on as a crutch, this is another drug that I would highly recommend for someone who's abused it to reset their receptors with low dose Naltrexone. We can ask you guys. Can ask us that question. We can tell you guys how to do that from a dosage standpoint at the end of this presentation. But again, this is a very, very powerful anti aging drug, and again, it does so many good things for the heart and the vascular system for the brain, it's getting rid of oxidative waste and free oxy radical build up and senescent cells. It's really, really good. The problem with this drug is, is that too many people are, you know, metabolically deranged and insulin resistance, and so they don't get the same response as somebody who has healthier cells does. But it is a very powerful drug when used in a clinically precise dose over time. Now this is something that we just threw on here as a bonus, because Dr Nathan Bryan is a very good friend of ours. I'm sure he's a good friend of some of you guys too. He's one of the world's leading experts on nitric oxide. His product, he has no two lozenges, and then he also has the sticks Hunter and I never go home without those. He personally designed these to be used in combination with Levitra, Cialis and Viagra, because, again, it enhances the effect in the cell membrane of all those drugs. And again, just taking these things. I mean, you know, again, when you really look into the research on NAS and nitric oxides at the cellular level, it does so many beneficial things. And I personally, like when I have sex with my wife, I always have a couple of these sticks, or a couple of these lozenges on my nightstand or in my nightstand, and if I can remember to take one or two before we, you know, make it happen. Or, you know, I personally, I take one of their sticks in my Gator not Gatorade, but in my propel, which you probably have seen me drinking. Sadly, yes, I'm drinking out of plastic bottles, like we can't avoid it at all times. But I do put the sticks in my propel when I go to the gym, because I definitely notice an increase in my pump and, you know, cellular health and just much stronger blood flow. I feel stronger and better in my in the gym. And like I said, it also does the same thing for sex. Okay, so syringe compatibility. You can definitely use PT 141, and oxytocin. However, I would be very, very reluctant to do that. If you're a first timer, a virgin. You really want to assess your tolerance to both. As Hunter said, If you don't do well with PT 141 the likelihood that oxytocin will work is actually higher. So start with PT 141 see what happens, and then move to oxytocin. Tadalafil is obviously an oral tablet. There is obviously formulations in the research world that are liquid, although I don't find those as strong as the oral compounded versions. You can get the oral compounded versions in India for rather cheap. And then, of course, no two lozenges are supplements that you can buy online. Here's the summary. We're done. Questions.

Speaker 3  1:53:15
Wow, amazing. You reminded me of one of those performances that was sold out in a 4m so if you had a door, people probably crashed in here, especially when you announced you're giving up free PDFs and protocols. I think that's what everybody slid in there, I guess, nods and yeses for you. So yeah,

Speaker 1  1:53:40
we actually have a lot of questions in the chat, and it's actually almost too many to go over. So I'm thinking in a you know, summary, people want your PDF for sure. They want your slides for sure. And I, you know, Dr Clearfield is great at recording all this. Which we are, yep. So we'll, we'll, we'll get the slides to everybody

Speaker 7  1:54:07
who wants. I mean, if you guys are okay, we'll go to 10. We got 13 minutes. I'm happy to answer some of these questions, so I'll just rip through them, and then Hunter, you can follow up. But what is the micro dosing for rid of true tide? So it's different depending on the person and obviously the clinical use. But most people, and I would say women, would be titrating lower than men, depending on body size, is somewhere between like 1.15 milligrams to point five milligrams, and that's dosed like every other day. I mean, a hunter and I, again, have been using run a true time for close to two years, and using a bolus of more than two or three milligrams of retro true tide once a week isn't is an absolute recipe for disaster, because, again, it's so powerful metabolically that it will stimulate appetite, it will increase rusting, you know, metabolic Rate and BMR, and so you really want to microdose it. And most people see really profound effects micro dosing it, you want to add anything to that Hunter, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:55:04
just think if you, if you look at the dose response curve of micro dosing, which is a very tiny amount more frequently versus once a week injections, the half life of the drugs is like six to seven days. So in theory, right? You could do one injection per week and get all the effects to what you can, but the body's still gotta metabolize that. And you go on this peak in Valley to where, usually, like the third or fourth day, the effects were maximized, and then by the sixth or seventh day, they're kind of waiting off, whereas if we took the same dose and we break that up into infrequent amounts throughout the week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, or Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Sunday. Along those lines, we don't have the pronounced peak and trough, and we kind of just keep the levels more stable, so the side effect profile is way, way less. So even with some of these other the older drugs like ozempic or Manjaro, a lot of the side effects people are having is because they're doing a big injection once per week, and then they're having this huge peak and trough to which they're overwhelmed with nausea and appetite suppression and fatigue, whereas if they took the same dose that are doing total but just broke it up into more infrequent injections, they'd be way better off and get all the benefits without the side effects.

Speaker 7  1:56:11
Well, Said, I want to add some stuff to the to the to the GLP, something that Hunter and I actually recently discovered, I think, is very profound. I don't think anyone in the medical community has realized this yet, but we'll get to it. What is, what is our sources? So listen, the research community is full of GLP three. That's kind of what people are using now in the research community, because Lily is going after anybody who is manufacturing reta true tight in the research community, because they're like, we don't we paid all the money for it, even though they technically can't enforce it because it's not an FDA approved medication, yet, they're basically still saying, we own the right to this, and you can't sell it, even if you denature it or change the formulation molecularly. Blah, blah. But at the end of the day, you can find it at GLP three and most sites. It's obviously available at our site, at biolongivity labs.com, so it's there. You can find it there, but there's other places. Peptide Sciences has it. There's other research companies. You can do a Google search and you'll find it would SS 31 work for polycystic kidney disease. So my answer is it could, once again, as we were saying in this presentation, lifestyle change intervention is going to be first and foremost with any kind of disease diagnosis. You can't look at these things as band aids or easy buttons you got to, you know, obviously modulate lifestyle, live insulin controlled, hopefully, start exercising, change, you know, dietary patterns and whatnot, and then use it. But it could. It does a lot of things. That's definitely one of the things that I would say that people use it for Hunter talk about SS 31 for mycotoxins and misfolding.

Speaker 8  1:57:50
Yeah, it definitely could. So SS 31 I think it's more of those conversations. We didn't, quote, unquote, make a mold stack. First of all, thymosin alpha one, thymeline and l 37 along with KPV for mold, do really, really, really well. But I will say a lot of times in mold exposure patients, you're going to see really, really bad mitochondrial impairment. So SS 31 would go hand in hand with those to help. And I think some of those low energy, lethargy, really, really bad fatigue issues that people have from mold exposure is is because of the mitochondrial dysfunction that stems from that. So absolutely can. It's not going to be like the way SS 31 works is it's not going to like clear your body of the mold, but the LL 37 the thymosin alpha one, thymol, and will work to help the immune system do that. And then the SS 31 is going to help with the mitochondrial repair that's going to come from being damaged structurally inside of the mitochondria from the mold exposure and toxicity that someone was up against. Okay,

Speaker 7  1:58:50
more questions, by the way, I just uploaded the vaccine recovery or the vaccine injury recovery stack, so it's a PDF. It's in the chat you guys should be able to download. It. If you can't, you know, Dr Bill will send us, and I'll send a recap of it, and you can, you can always email either of us. It's J at bio longevity labs or Hunter at bio longevity labs. I'll put that email in here, but just to keep asking answering questions real quick, yeah, stay away from eight sleep. That's right. Let's see here. Yeah, we'll send you guys the slides. No problem. Vaccine protocols in there. It's in there. In there. See your guys emails. You should be able to download it. Hunter does KPV orally for League. He got work better than BPC, 157 orally. I mean, he can answer. I'm going to tell you that KPV and BPC 157 together orally work better than they work in isolation. But go ahead and answer that. I would

Speaker 8  1:59:45
use both of them, but for me personally, if I had to choose one for gut health, absolutely, KPV orally over BPC orally all day for gut health. And I would use both Metformin, first, right? Yeah, then Metformin first, because of what it does to help improve.

Speaker 7  2:00:04
Go ahead. Mary Elaine, thank you, and by the way, thank you for everyone who's thanking us. And we appreciate you guys, your patience and your time and letting us go through this cartilage is all that. Let's see here. Yeah. So for you guys that are leaving emails, if you're not here and you left or whatever, we'll send it to you. But obviously it's in here, so if you guys can't get it, just tell me and I'll upload it again. You're welcome on the presentation. Anything for neuropathy, what do you think Hunter AR to AR, besides Ara 290

Speaker 8  2:00:36
Yeah, area 290 is, is kind of a go to, I think PPC and TB 500 work. Well, probably now carlax too. Just

Speaker 7  2:00:42
from, I was just going to say Carla lacks might be a sham, wow, peptide, yeah,

Speaker 8  2:00:47
an inflammation standpoint. But I think, you know, this is where we kind of get into, like, Okay, what? What is causing the neuropathy? For a lot of people, as diabetic neuropathy. What is leading to that was insulin resistance. So what's going to again? Let's go back upstream to find out what's going on, if the neuropathy is caused by insulin resistance. Okay, what's going to help with that? Well, obviously, diet, lifestyle, but a micro dose of a GLP one can be really beneficial too. So if I was just building out a neuropathy stack, could be a R, A, 290, BPC, TB, 500 potentially cartilage now and then also to a microdose of GLP one to get things going in the right direction.

Speaker 7  2:01:24
Okay, so the next question is mast cell activation syndrome. So I'm literally going to post a link into the group right now because the part of the show where I can't be a internet con man. Showman is over, so here's the link. So that product and I will just tell you guys that if you heard what I said in the show, I can't give you hints, because I can't talk about celebrities. But I just had a very high, high, high level person and a very high level a list person literally messaged me and says, I want 100 bottles of this product. So I just posted. It's called Bio gut Pro. It is the strongest call it, dysbiotic healer in the marketplace. There's nothing on the planet that is as effective as this product. Anyone can probably, you know, obviously, with lifestyle modification, can take six to nine capsules of this a day for two weeks and kill anything SIBO, you know, again, whatever dysbiotic shit you got going on in your gut, this thing will heal it. That is a kitchen sink product. Every single thing that we talked about tonight that is like, you know, number one, number two, number three, number four, number five, are all together. It's synergistically blended. It has enhancing molecules to enhance absorption. It's just a very, very powerful product, and it is expensive, but trust me, it is worth every penny. And our company is always running sales, so you you can always get 20, 15% off depending on what time of the year you buy it. But that is a very, very powerful product. Again, it's called Bio gut Pro. There's nothing in the marketplace like that. Let's see. I'm just still scrolling through Hunter. What is the actual compound in cardiogen that makes it target the heart, and how is this helping with the facial skin getting tighter.

Speaker 8  2:03:20
I believe Eve is called. It's an amino acid sequence. I think it's called A, E, D, R is the name of it. But most of these bio regulators are just amino acid sequences. So it's a chain that's been looking at. But if you look up cardiogen amino acid sequence, it's probably like L you know, he'll have all the amino acids lined out. I'm not, I think it's four.

Speaker 7  2:03:41
So Kenton Crowley asks about PEMF mats, protecting against EMF. They absolutely do not. I love PEMF mats. I love PEMF. I think everyone should do PEMF at least once or twice a month. But they will not. I'm going to put a link in the group. It's called shielded healing.com, that guy that owns that company. His name's doctor. Well, he is a doctor, but he goes by Brian Hoyer, and he is the world's leading anti EMF guy. He will come into your house, he will come into your work, he will come into any residence, and he will do a test. And then he really, honestly, it depends on who you are and what you're he's testing. He usually doesn't, if you're connected and you get referred, he usually does them for free. And then he obviously, his, how he makes money is he charges you solutions, you know, graded outlets and grounded outlets, and does and does all these other things. And then obviously, if your bedroom is a disaster, he recommends like a canopy shielding paint. But he's an amazing man. He's a warrior of the light. He will help you from all these negative EMF frequencies. And again, I will just tell you guys it is way, way worse than any of us know. When we travel these days and we sleep in these hotels, whether it's Austin or LA or Houston or Miami or New York or Atlanta, you are being annihilated. Do you realize that most of the hotels in the southeast have mold and mycotoxins in their freaking HVAC units, and no one is cleaning them out since COVID? There's no There's no routine maintenance happening. They're waiting for the systems to fail. You can't even sleep in a hotel now on the road and not wake up with gunk in your throat or your eyes hurting, or your nose, you know, blocked. I'm telling you is it's so bad. So, you know, take precautions and be proactive. That's all I can say. It's incredible how bad it is out there these days, scrolling through, scrolling through the mattress company again, the one that I bought, or the one that I said to stay away from, is eight sleep, and that is, of course, the thermal, thermo thermically regulated and temperature controlled mattress. Stay away from it. Yep, yep, yep, yep. Just scrolling through guys Bill's already got takeaways to the meeting. I see that that's super cool. Are you guys able to download the PDF? Yeah. So Mindy Barrett asked, do we have wholesale pricing? We do? So let me put this email in there, send me an email. It's jay@biologs.com and I will send you an application for wholesale I can tell you guys that we just made an executive decision that in order to get wholesale pricing and make it fair to you. You got to spend a minimum of five grand a month, and we give you 40% off. And then if you spend 10 grand a month, it's 50% off. So it really just depends on how much you're buying where it makes sense. And the reason we're doing that is you can get affiliate codes and get it for almost as cheap and not have to buy that. You know, from a miniature expense standpoint, we will white label if somebody is willing to spend enough money for some of these products. So again, you know, all things are on the table. The company is only seven months old right now, but it's expanding. It like geometric rate right now, because obviously peptides and bio regulators are kind of the thing. So if you guys have a question, just message me.

Speaker 3  2:07:13
Yeah. What they're asking is, if you're a provider, do you provide? Like provider pricing? Yes, 100% okay, so submit licenses and all to

Speaker 7  2:07:24
Yeah, exactly once you fill out the wholesale program, we ask for everything. It's all in there.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:28
Okay.

Speaker 7  2:07:35
This is Kylie Smith. Says, I'm concerned that there's not a help that every size discussion happening. I hope that you will consider that there are, there are people at every size and shape that are truly healthy, uh, absolutely. I mean, we're just, you know, I make jokes about it. My mom just so, you know, Kylie, my mom was morbidly obese, and I did everything I could to help her, and believe me, I had a lot of love and compassion for my mom, and always would. And I have a lot of love and compassion for people that are, you know, not in the right condition or not in the condition to live long and strong. And my goal is to teach people to, you know, improve their health so they can live long and strong. So I totally understand that is completely untrue, though, what you wrote about TB 500 and that is an old wives tale that people like Andrew Huberman put out into the world, and it's complete and total bullshit. BPC 157 and TB 500 are not going to do any of those things. That is complete misinformation. So I disagree with any of that. No one is using these things at dosages that would cause those kind of problems. Those those problems would only be seen in massive overdosing, massive boluses, long term use. It's like what I always say when I hear people tell me that growth hormone causes metastases. It's complete nonsense. All of the research in human growth hormone is in children with dwarfism, and they take 25 to 35 IUs a day of human growth hormone. And you know how many of them have ever gotten one incidence of cancer? Zero. There's a lot of misinformation about peptides. There's a lot of people talking about there's not human use studies. And yes, that is partially true, but that's just like saying that there hasn't been people in Russia using peptides and bio regulators for 70 years without incidents. They have been. We have aI now, and we can translate Bulgarian and Russian literature, and we can see how much experience there are, in many cases, in using peptides and bio regulators at very, very crazy dosages, and obviously clinically precise dosages. And we don't see the issues that we see in medicine with like allopathic, you know, call them Rockefeller, petroleum distillate medications. There's always a risk. There's always outliers. We can always have problems, but I don't see any of that with TB 500 or BPC 157 and I will debate or argue with any clinician anywhere about this whenever it's necessary. There is nothing in the clinical research that shows that that that is an actual, real risk.

Speaker 7  2:10:07
Kylie, are you serious? You are literally asking me that, as someone is morbidly obese and has excellent labs, there's no such thing you cannot be morbidly obese and have excellent labs. That's complete nonsense. You're in delusion if you believe that that's not possible, that's not possible. And feeling well and having biomarkers that show that you're not well is a whole different thing. The mind is all that exists. We are nothing more than mind. So we can create any reality we want, but your body is a living, breathing organism. If it has extreme biomarkers that are off the chart, that means that you're not that body is not going to live that long. I mean, I'm an infinite being, and I hope all of you guys think you're an infinite being, but this physical avatar body that we live in has limitations, and clearly, if our biomarkers are bad, we're not going to live as long theoretically as somebody who has better biomarkers. Eric acebido says some of the peptides that are mentioned we cannot anymore get from compound pharmacies. Is Jay selling these, yeah, so let me just say this, and then we can end this, because I don't see any other questions. Unless someone comes in. So we sell research grade peptides, which essentially means that they are for research purposes only. Our pharmacy are, excuse me, our peptides are made in a GMP compliant facility at a sterility process controlled and is essentially no different than an FDA approved facility. We are FDA registered. We're just not FDA approved. So it's kind of like a subdivision of like getting from a compound pharmacy who is FDA approved as a 503, A, B or C, versus a research company that isn't FDA approved but is in a FDA registered in GMP compliant facility. So as long as you're getting what I would say, you know, a certificate of authenticity of over 99.5 or 99.9% you're not getting any difference from a compounded version versus a research version. But again, you know, trust your sources, trust the COAs, make sure that you're buying from a reputable company or a reputable business, and then you know, you got to do what you got to do. I mean, most clinicians are not legally allowed to buy research and then prescribe them to their customers. But obviously, I think you guys know there's tons of clinicians in the United States that do recommend their patients go there because their patients can't afford the compound version, because usually the compound version is anywhere from seven to 10 times what the research version costs. But we are in a very strange world right now, where, again, it's hard to understand where things are going, where it might go. Obviously, we have people like FD, I mean, RFK talking about using peptides, pushing them into the mainstream. You know, again, peptides, what I like to call the crypto of decentralized health care. They're a threat to allopathic medicine in a lot of ways. And I think a lot of you guys know that.

Speaker 9  2:13:03
I think I respectfully, I know that you deal with a different clientele, but at the same time, like, when you're saying, like, I want to, like these patients to live longer, or having things like that, we're directing all these people into, like, eating disorder, disorder, mentalities, all these things alone. Are

Speaker 7  2:13:19
we directing people into eating disorder mentalities? Explain that to

Speaker 9  2:13:23
me. Okay, body dysmorphia, all these kind of things I'm just saying, like that whole thing is going explosive. At least in my client, it's

Unknown Speaker  2:13:32
going explosive. I'm not following you

Speaker 9  2:13:35
the thought process that if I don't have a certain look of my body, if I don't have x, y, z, thing, that someone else thinks if I have too much fat, if I have too much this, too much that, and not celebrating the fact that there are different sizes of people like

Speaker 7  2:13:49
I have no idea what you're talking about. You. You are on a wavelength that has zero to do with anything I said tonight, or Hunter said, to do tonight, all we talk about is the diseases of health, and people that are morbidly obese are not healthy, but you're not even talking

Unknown Speaker  2:14:05
about just morbidly obese.

Speaker 7  2:14:06
You can celebrate. You can sit here daughter who are heavy or healthy because they feel healthy. They're not. They're not. You're lying to yourself. It's not true, and everyone on this call knows that I'm telling the truth, whether you accept it or not, is a whole nother story. I have no fight against you or anybody who is metabolically deranged or obese, but to sit here and tell me that you are healthy at all sizes is utter fucking nonsense. Do not say that stuff to me. That's fake, that's not real.

Speaker 9  2:14:40
So are you familiar with Ilona Mar I'm not familiar

Speaker 7  2:14:43
with anything that you're going to go down. I'm here to talk about peptides.

Speaker 9  2:14:48
He's famous. I'm just talking about the rugby player.

Speaker 7  2:14:52
I don't know who he is. I could care less. She, she. I could care less. What does that have to do with our conversation we're having here

Unknown Speaker  2:14:59
tonight? Well, then I know where you stand, but I appreciate it.

Speaker 7  2:15:01
Where do I stand? I stand on helping humanity. She

Speaker 9  2:15:05
her BMI is in the obese range, and yet she is one of the best rugby rugby players. She's an Olympian.

Speaker 7  2:15:10
Okay, so you're gonna tell me that an obese rugby player who's an Olympian is healthy. That's what you're here to tell me.

Speaker 9  2:15:17
I'm not saying she's obese. I'm saying her BMI says she's obese.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:22
But what is your

Unknown Speaker  2:15:23
argument? What is that argument? We

Speaker 10  2:15:26
have questions about peptides that exactly experts on and just wondering if cerebral nurigen, how that compares to cerebral life. I'm trying to find it for patients.

Speaker 7  2:15:40
I'm sorry, your Echo is so bad. I heard cerebral eyes. And could you repeat the question?

Unknown Speaker  2:15:48
I'm sorry. Let me read it.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:50
Sorry. I could download one of your

Speaker 7  2:15:54
okay. I hear you now. You can repeat it. Go ahead, um, I'm trying

Speaker 10  2:15:58
to get cerebral license, and I see that limitless now has cerebral neurogen, and I'm wondering if that's the same, but it looks like it is a little different. Or where can you get cerebral license from? Now, you

Speaker 7  2:16:10
know, where can we get cerebral eyes? And it's very difficult to locate.

Speaker 8  2:16:14
So, so it's actually most of the research companies that are selling through, were selling got a letter from the FDA, tell them it was they were in danger of getting in trouble. So a lot of them stop. Now, if you could tell go to a website. It's called PCT zone.ru, they have, like, an Indian pharmacy and a British and I think an American warehouse, they actually do have it on their website. Now, I don't know how long it's going to be on there, but you can buy the ampule. It's the ampule version, right? Yeah, correct. It's the ample version. So that is the only place I know that sells to rubella, since actually, very, very hard to source and get now, and I know like limitless they got a letter from, I think it was the FDA or someone telling them stop selling it, and most of the other places are as well. So I'm sure there's other research companies out there that still have it in the US, but I just know PCT zone has it. It comes from an Indian warehouse, but it is the pharmaceutical girl.

Speaker 3  2:17:13
There is a way to get it, but it's like a medical emergency necessity, so that one really, really have to go through hoops here and get it internationally, legally into the country. But, yeah, it's difficult to prove that. Yeah, so, but there is a way I I've known clinicians have done that before, but

Speaker 10  2:17:33
I'm sorry. Hunter, you said it was PCT zone.ru, yeah, yes. Okay, awesome. Thanks so much. You guys appreciate you. Thank you.

Speaker 3  2:17:46
Well, you know, you really got us all interested when we got all these behind the scenes action here too, huh? So. But anyway, one of the bigger things here, part of the questions, and the online question is, so, as you could currently see, peptides are getting pulled back, put back in, so in your so you're the two experts in peptide here, peptides, what is the current state in the US of of peptides, and Where is it going in the future, and how we are going to be looking forward to it as clinicians or even consumers?

Speaker 7  2:18:22
Yeah, it's a great question, so I'll just repeat to you what our attorney tells us. And again, our attorney is Jeff Cohen. If any of you guys would like a referral to him, he is probably one of the top guys in the world. He works with you guys. He works with the FDA, he works with research companies, and of course, he represents compound pharmacies on both sides of the fence, and he is a brilliant guy. And he says, when asked that question, he says the current regulatory picture with research and compounded peptides is clear as mud. That's literally what he says. So I think the answer Melvin, is it's, it's to be it's to be determined the genie is completely and totally out of the bottle with peptides. Though there is never going to be a regulatory body, including the FDA or the DEA or anybody the AMA, any alphabet, that's going to suppress them, because if they do, it will only create a bigger demand. And obviously, there's always someone, somewhere willing to supply the demand, as it is right now, research companies are completely legal. There's certain technicalities that they must have on their website, and they must state for research purposes, and then they also must indemnify, you know, the outside parties who are purchasing, because obviously we can't be accounted for. Who's buying and what and for what, when? When Jeff, Jeff actually, and I'm happy to send you guys this. Jeff did a live stream with Hunter and I, what was it Hunter about six weeks ago, and we asked him a bunch of questions, as far as the walls are how they apply to clinicians, purchasing for research, recommending their clients. And he has a really brilliant layout of like, what you can and can't do. And so I'm happy to send you guys that wide stream. If you would want to watch it, I highly recommend it. We've had lots of clinicians watch that and then actually reach out to him for consultation. But he is really, really good in clarifying things and speaking at a very high level. As far as, like, what you guys can and can't do, I definitely, at heart, you can comment. I know, I know for a fact that you, you guys, as clinicians, cannot legally tell a patient to go purchase a research chemical peptide right now, if the patient, and truthfully, even though people are doing this, I mean, you know, we can't say anything, because we're not lawyers, and we're obviously not a law enforcement but you're technically not allowed to buy peptides from peptide sciences or bio longevity labs or limitless And then stock them at your clinic, right? Like you can't do that, but if somebody comes to you and you're prescribing them peptides as a, you know, compounded version of a, say, a GLP, and they're getting them to their insurance, and they say to you, Hey, I can't afford this anymore. But I saw this and, you know, they mentioned peptide sciences or bio longevity labs. What do you think of that? You could say, well, they sell those peptides. If that's something that you want to pursue. You know what I mean? You can kind of talk to them about that as a as a patient, patient, client. You know, confidentiality, but you can't say to them, go buy it there. Blah, blah, blah. Does that make sense? Right? So it's kind of like an information only type of conversation. But I mean, again, I'm not going to lie to you guys. I think a lot of you guys know that there's a lot of clinicians that are buying them from research companies and either white labeling them or reselling them or whatever. And that's definitely a no no. But I mean, again, it comes down to enforcement. You know, what is your appetite, you know, for doing this? Because, I mean, a lot of clinicians have told me at Hunter that, like, I have people that cannot afford the compound aversions. And what do I do? You know, like I my job and my oath is to do no harm and to heal. And I want these people to find these things available. So, like, I mean, it just, it really is, if we're in a kind of a buyer beware Wild Wild West mentality and marketplace, and I don't really ultimately know, it's just I feel with RFK in place, you know, the comments that he's made about peptides, I just feel like there's not going to be a lot of regulation anytime soon. You know, other than Eli Lilly coming after compounders and research companies that are selling peptides that are FDA approved that they made, right so if you're a research company or a compounder right now, you're technically not allowed to sell Reddit, I mean, terzapatide and they're sending letters to people that are selling rent a true type, but I don't think that they're enforceable, at least, this is what we've heard from our attorneys. Because, again, it's not FDA approved yet. It's technically not legally a drug. It's still a research chemical.

Unknown Speaker  2:23:09
Because, because

Speaker 11  2:23:11
it's a research chemical, can we buy it for ourselves? 100% we have a weekend. Yes, you just

Speaker 7  2:23:19
can't, you just can't give it to your patients. You just can't give it to your patients because

Speaker 11  2:23:24
it's not approved. Can our patients call you and order it for themselves?

Speaker 7  2:23:29
I mean, if they go to our website and they place an order and they, you know, indemnify themselves and all that stuff, and say they're using it for research purposes. Absolutely,

Speaker 11  2:23:38
okay. I didn't understand. Yes, thank you. You're welcome. What is

Speaker 7  2:23:43
your website? It's bio longevity labs.com. Okay, I'll post it in there.

Speaker 3  2:23:50
So don't keep me hearing you had an LDN receptor reset protocol. Is that a PDF that you're going to send, or you're going to tell

Speaker 7  2:23:57
us they don't actually have a PDF that Hunter has a really good video that he's done on YouTube, so we can send you the link on that. But you want to just talk about that real

Speaker 8  2:24:05
quick. Hunter, yeah, it's actually pretty easy what I like to do. So well, let's address this conceptually. LDN works to help modulate the immune system, among other things that it does, but in the context of peptides, and when we take peptides, the body builds what's called, like an immunogen immunogenicity response to it, because there's a foreign thing that comes in the body, and the body over time is going to say, well, this isn't normal to me, so I'm going to build up a response to build up tolerance to that. Now what we can do with LDN is modulate the immune system to basically not have that same response to the peptide. And so I know because we've seen this time and time again, for instance, like, if you have someone on a GLP one peptide, you could be let's say they're on two milligrams a week of retrotide, and after 16 or 20 or 24 weeks in that two milligrams is not going to have the same effect on them. On is the first four to eight weeks it did. Now, if you put in point five milligrams, or 1.5 milligrams of LDN, all of a sudden, now you kind of run wind back the clock on that immunogenicity response to the peptide, and all of a sudden they're like, Wow, I feel like I took reta true for the first time. And what you can do this is, what I personally do is I just use LDN for three months on and three months off throughout the year. So half the year I'm using it, and half the year I'm not. And I like, there's a lot of other longevity benefits to it too, as it relates to the immune system, and especially as it relates to gut health. And basically, the way our total gut health relates to our immune system and everything there. So I really like it for that purpose. But a lot of times people are like, Well, I'm taking 10 milligrams of tricep petite retrotide, and I want to take LDN so that I don't have to go up to 20 milligrams. And it's like, it's more of a nuanced conversation than that, because we're getting of a lot of the immuno modulatory benefits of it, but a kind of a plus is that it does kind of help reset sensitivity to the peptides, and if we use it appropriately, we can stay on lower doses for longer periods of time without having that response. But I always say that because I don't want people to think like, oh, well, I'm just going to take this and it's going to reverse the tolerance I built up to a peptide. Does it work like that kind of but you don't want to think about using it as a crutch to where you're just kind of doing that with your peptides. But I love it, and I would use it even if I wasn't using peptides. We can because, like I said, there's a lot of longevity benefits.

Speaker 3  2:26:34
Are you still going to use the peptide that you had immunogenicity on, or you're going to stop it well on LDN. Or how does it? How do you take a question back up? You

Speaker 8  2:26:45
can do both. I like using it in addition to the peptide that I am building up tolerance to, because again, it kind of like winds back the clock on that response, and then all of a sudden, you kind of feel yourself going into this no man's land, of like, oh, I don't feel like my pep I'm taking this peptide and I'm not getting any response to it. And it kind of like, can help you extend that, and then I will use that to bridge the gap, you know, of like, okay, for the next two to three months, I could potentially get more benefit out of that same dose of the peptide, rather than having to titrate up the dose, which depending on peptide you may or may not want to

Speaker 7  2:27:18
do Melvin. This is and for everybody, this is how I like using it. And again, everybody's different, and we all have different use cases. Is based on the critical nature of the person I like, three months off, three months on six months off, three months back on, six months off. You know, I like, I like doing it like that. I feel like you give your receptors enough, and then in that way, it's kind of like a rotational, almost a seasonal usage of LDN, and again, depending on what you're using it for. I mean, let's face it, there's a lot of people on this call now that are going to be using GLP ones in a micro dose forever, right? Because it's, it's way beyond the metabolic disease curing it's eliminating food noise, it's changing brainwave patterning. It's doing a lot of positive things. So I think if we're looking at it from that use case, I think that you know, a regular usage of micro dosing, LDN, whether it's three months or six months out of every year, is going to be long term beneficial for just GLP, one use in general. And so I like looking at it from that standpoint. And what Hunter didn't talk about, and I'll talk about slightly, is that, again, if a person is on hormone optimization, which I'm sure the majority of our patients, the majority of us, are using, it's also enhancing androgen receptor sensitivity. I mean, there's so many things it's doing to improve our cellular health, and it's just worth using it. I mean, it's really, really a powerful drug. And again, as always, the difference between a pill and a poison is the dosage. Start low, stay low. You know, don't go high. I mean, there's people out there using insane amounts of LDN, again, for, you know, curing heroin addiction, or, you know, Oxycontin addiction, or any of these things. But I think for us in the biohacking space, and for people that are just on long term health, or, excuse me, hormone optimization, or even using glps for all sorts of purposes, I think that's the best use case of it,

Speaker 3  2:29:09
right? Yeah, so that was well described. So, but again, guys, this was an awesome show. And do you have any final words or parting words for us before you guys head off to the sunset? No,

Speaker 7  2:29:21
I would just say we didn't do this, but I'm happy to you guys have our emails. If anybody in here wants any of our courses, I mean, we'll give away most of the stuff for free, but if you do want our courses, we'll do a 50% off coupon for it. So we have a really powerful GLP one course. It's a year it's not even a year old. It was actually put out in July of last year on micro dosing glps. It's really, really good. And then we have a, you know, real basic course. It's like nothing, it's like 50 bucks. So we'll give it to you for 25 bucks on reconstitution. But it's also, it's a good refresher course, because a lot of people get confused on reconstituting peptides and stuff like that. And then our basic, it's not really basic. It's kind of intermediate. Is peptides demystified. It is a little older, though now I think it's close to two years older. It will be two years old in July, from 2023 but those are our three biggest courses. We do have a course on women's peptide usage that was done by Hunter's fiance and my wife. And that's also really, really powerful course. And again, it's, it's 50% off. And I think Hunter correct me if I'm wrong, 50% off. The courses are 149 bucks, because they're normally 299 Correct.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:29
Correct. Yep.

Speaker 8  2:30:32
Yeah. Go ahead, guys. Thank you so much. It's an honor to get to talk to you guys and share this. Feel free. You know, like Jay said, You have our emails. You can reach out to us if you have questions or anything like that. I'm more than happy to help but really, really appreciate it, and thank you for just giving us a space to do it. Hopefully it was helpful to you guys. And whether it's just your own personal life or your patience and advising them and stuff, you can kind of take this and run with it, but you'd ask Melvin, just about, like, the future of peptides. I think the close out a good way to think that right now is everyone remembers Bitcoin in 2012 right? Not really, because it was kind of like underground and, like, no one knew about it, and it was like, oh, that's illegal. Or, like, use that to buy drugs or whatever. I think we're kind of like this right now in 2025 with peptides, kind of like Bitcoin was in like 20 like 2012 2013 probably similar to, like the cannabis space, like 10 years ago too, where it was like, you know, it's illegal on other states, and you kind of see it. So my opinion is, I think you're going to see like the legitimization of this space as soon as governing bodies and large companies can find a way to profit off it, and right now we're seeing that with the GLP ones, where there's this back and forth war between the compounding pharmacies and Eli Lilly and Novo Nordisk and whatever, I think, as we get like, exposed to, like, a broader audience of different categories of peptides, you're going to see a legitimization of it, but it will come as they figure out ways to kind of get hands in the pocket, so to speak. So I think we cats out of the bag. People know about peptides. They're only going to get that much more popular. But I think in the next 10 to 15 years, you'll see like more and more, you know, institutionalization of peptides, but hopefully that means we can get more and more access to them. Because, you know right now, it really is on the fringes, from a use case standpoint, of the people that are using them. And as you guys know, if you've you've used them, they're incredible molecules. So just you know, hope you guys are able to help spread the word like we are to use them in yourself and your

Speaker 7  2:32:30
patients. So well said Hunter. So two more questions, because somebody Mindy Barrett asked an amazing question. And she jogged my mind to talk about this, so I wanted to answer this So, and this is a really important so, as you guys know, always save the best for last, right? And this just happened randomly. There's no coincidence of the universe, only synchronicities. But do you have people that take a break from the glps? I know people who have been on it for over a year. So this is an amazing question. I'm really glad you asked it. If you microdose these products, and this is, again, the only way to use them, you can withdraw to like, 1/4 of a dose and inject, literally, like every 14 days to keep the food noise at bay, to just keep receptor sensitivity, you know, acutely sensitive to it. So again, if you as long as you don't abuse these and again, we unfortunately, in the clinical space, we see abuse. We see abuse way too much. We see doctors starting out people at too high of a dosages, and, of course, titrating too high automatically and immediately, because the people aren't doing everything right. But as long as the consumer, slash patient, understands how to use a GOP one, and you as the clinician are recommending that they microdose. You literally can stay on these things pretty much year round. And I would tell you that the way you would do that is, if you're microdosing it with two or three shots a week, now, all of a sudden, after four to six months, you go to one or two shots a month. Okay? And not only to go to one or two shots a month, you go to half of the dosage, if not 1/4 of the dosage that you were using at three shots a week. So there's lots of ways to vary, you know, the inter individuality, as far as the levels in your body or in your cellular networks when you're using these. And then one other thing, and I told you guys, I wanted to remind that I remembered this, and this is something that Hunter and I recently discovered. And I don't know if anyone is talking about this, but the other day, Hunter what's the doctor's name that's Speaking at a forum that I always forget her name, Gabrielle Lyon. I think a lot of you guys know Gabrielle Lyon. She just did a big thing on Facebook about GLP ones and how dangerous they are because they cause muscle loss and blah, blah, blah, and everything she said is true, again, in patients that don't know how to use these products. But what Hunter and I have discovered, and again, this is very recent, and I'll give credit to Hunter, because he was really the guy that came up with this. A lot of people are using GLP ones who are carb phobic and they're only eating carnivore or keto or super low carb diets, and that is a major, major mistake, because what is happening is, as you guys know, glps Improve gastric motility and slow gastric emptying. And when you have no carbohydrates in your body and no roughage, you're a massive issue for gall bladder, bowel movement disease. I mean, you've got so many potential issues because those glps are so acute at what they do, that without having carbohydrates in your system, you are definitely going to have problems with not having correct bowel movements. Again, you've delayed and slowed gastric emptying, and these are the things that are leading to gall bladder issues and all sorts of bowel issues. So just remember that if you have a patient on a GLP, they should remain metabolically flexible, and they should not be carb phobic. And too many people in this country today are carb phobic. And it just the truth is is like clean carbs are fine. Seed oils are bad, GMO food is bad. So make sure that you're telling your patient that clean carbs again, like, you know, quinoa, yams, white rice, oatmeal, stuff that is natural and organic. As I like to say, if God didn't make it. You probably shouldn't eat it. Those are the type of carbs that you should be consuming when you're on a GLP. Because, again, you need that. You need the roughage. You need healthy bowel movements. And too many people are eating nothing but protein and not having the bowel movements. And it's just because of what the glps Do you want to add anything that to that Hunter?

Speaker 8  2:36:36
No, just the only thing is that, like high fat diets, slow gastric emptying. So if you have a super high fat diet with GLP one, you're going to get a double dose of gastric emptying, and a lot of time, that's where people get these really, really bad side effects. So that's just the only other thing I add. You know, you want to have a balanced diet. You want to be metabolically flexible, that you can eat carbs, you can eat bats, you can eat protein and eat the healthy ones and eat whole foods and unprocessed foods, it'd be fine. But I do think a lot of people make that mistake of they're like, Okay, I'm going to change for the better now, and I'm going to go keto and do a GOP one a lot of times it does not end well for them. So

Speaker 7  2:37:12
one last answer, because somebody just asked about micro dosing, terzapatide, the difference between Bretta and terrors and even corinade, which is obviously the amyloid. It's not a GLP, but people consider it one, because it stimulates the brain to not be hungry. They're all the same. It's somewhere between point one five milligrams and point five milligrams, and it's either every other day or twice a week. And again, it's not one, you know, heavier bolus or higher bolus, because again, the way the half life works of these drugs, it's just not effective. And that's you get much more side effect, much more pronounced side effects, when you're giving one shot a week versus every other day, and very, very low dosages. So it like I said, I'll just say it one more time. It's somewhere between point one five milligrams up to point five milligrams. And whether it's run a true tide, Corona tide, or terza petite, that's where you want to be. Those are healthy, sweet areas. And again, that's for men and women. And really, at all body weights,

Speaker 3  2:38:07
there's really no place for ozempic, you know, huh? I

Speaker 7  2:38:12
mean, Hunter, and I tell people that it really is, it really is a grand an antiquated drug. I mean, the problem is, as you know, is that the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare industry are subrogating insurance reimbursement on semaglutide, and now they even have oral versions in Latin America. I just saw them on the in the pharmacy is in Mexico, and it's insane, because, truthfully, all it does is suppress appetite, and it doesn't increase metabolism. It doesn't stimulate resting metabolic rate. It doesn't do any of the things that the other ones do, which obviously help in regulating metabolic disease. And so I think it just, it really is just kind of like a dinosaur. It's super antiquated. Unless you're broke or don't have a doctor, they can get the other versions. I wouldn't use it. You'd

Speaker 3  2:38:54
be surprised that during the a 4m conference, there are a lot of companies having this sublingual version. I know it's insane, dude, it's insane. So it's out there. They're trying to, and maybe in the future, what, what they're going to do with their appetite, rid of true type they're going to,

Speaker 7  2:39:08
I mean, I'm sure they're going to try to get oral because, as we talk about every day in our company meetings, I mean, you got the barrier of entry is 80% of people will still not inject themselves, right? So I mean, like the reality is, is that you're going to get a far greater adoption if you're selling oral versions of these products than you will with the injectable versions. And truthfully, and then we can end it, you guys. And again, I appreciate you guys time and letting us go forever and running on. But Hunter and I are actually working with a company right now that is attempting to release a revolutionary patch formulation that has like a super Micron Technology, where it doesn't feel like an injection, it's literally like Star Trek technology. The guys that own the company are pretty broke and are like little bit lost at asking us to do too much for them right now, but they really have a good idea. So I'm hopeful that we will, you know, see, like a giant breakthrough in the micron needle technology for injectables, and because, again, it doesn't even, you can't feel it. It's just like a Velcro patch that you would put on somebody's arm, or really, any skin location. So I would say, Hunter, what would they're within a year of perfecting that technology, most likely,

Speaker 8  2:40:18
yeah, they they want to try to get it to like research companies, because they know they're not going to be FDA approved at least for five years, and get into the hands of like people in our communities and stuff. So they say it works perfectly fine right now, but I think it's getting people to adopt it and understand it, use it, is probably the bigger issue. So,

Speaker 3  2:40:35
yeah, it's like an estrogen patch, basically

Speaker 7  2:40:38
exactly, exactly. So right now, their level of micron depth is seven, seven mm. So to truly get oil based esters and bigger peptides, you know, molecularly, they need 10 and 12. So they're not there yet, but they they think they're close.

Speaker 3  2:40:54
Good, nice. See something to look forward to in the future for sure. Alright. Well, thank you guys. Thank you for your time. It always a pleasure, and don't forget to send us your slides, because everybody's

Speaker 7  2:41:06
Sure. I'll send I'll send Melvin email me at J at bio longevity labs, or J at J campbell.com and I'll send them to you right now. Sounds good. Listen guys, you guys, have a great night. Thank you so much for your time. Peace. Thank

Speaker 3  2:41:17
you. Thank you. Yes. Dr Quinn, hopefully you could stay for a little bit. We can get some announcements going for I shall do it, and

Unknown Speaker  2:41:25
while I'm on the mic, thank you

Speaker 7  2:41:26
for research. Hey, Robert, it was good seeing you, brother. I wish I had time to talk to you, but I'm sure we'll catch up

Speaker 5  2:41:32
soon. Man, yeah, we will. I'm going to email you about something too. Okay, awesome, Brother, take appreciate it.

Unknown Speaker  2:41:37
Thank you. Bye, bye, thank you.

Speaker 3  2:41:42
And Dr Tano, also, you could promote the event.

Unknown Speaker  2:41:49
Yeah, come here.

Speaker 5  2:41:50
Yeah, I'll come and says, ya know, I don't

Unknown Speaker  2:41:54
know. I have no

Unknown Speaker  2:41:58
idea. You got tired of Tim. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:42:00
let's change it up.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:11
That's funny. Okay? Dr Burgess on as well.

Speaker 3  2:42:16
I don't know, is he still here or he's snoozed off? No, I don't see his name.

Speaker 5  2:42:23
Oh, okay, yeah, because, well, he sent out that email. I guess there's problems or issues with the facility.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:31
Okay, go ahead.

Speaker 5  2:42:33
That's I guess he's unable to get the original facility, but he's working on something else.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:41
Oh, change of venue is that? Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:42:44
I'm sorry, that's what I should have said, yeah. All right, all

Unknown Speaker  2:42:47
right, okay, but it's still moving forward, right?

Speaker 5  2:42:50
As far as I know it is. I mean, he, he's been going back and forth. I think one time he said, Well, if you're, you know, don't get your plane tickets yet, but I don't know, most of us, I guess, have them. So, you know, then he said, Well, we could reimburse, but don't do that, because it appears is they're going to be able to change the venue. So any, any, and I thought he said he was going to talk about that this evening, but obviously he's off. So, right?

Speaker 3  2:43:16
And we do. There is a lot of good lineup of speakers here. If Yeah, this is already sent out to everybody, yeah.

Speaker 5  2:43:25
And, you know, we I'm switching my second talk with Dr Ben, because he's going to give the overview of of First Nations medical board and how all of this is playing out and what it's being used to do. And then my piece is the apothecary project and the Compendium, which we want to we will be able to I just spoke to Ben offline. He said, When the arguing hit, he left. So speaking to him, he said, we've got a tribal IRB, and we're there to do research and procure products, and we've got a, you know, we've talked about this behind the scenes. We've got a strong eye toward being able to provide peptides for people. And as you know, we're not subject to FDA, and all of those people were able to do this. So this is going to be something that I think is, is fantastic. And again, the tribal IRB, he's on it. He mentioned klatz and Goldman on it, as well as Dan Royal. So we'll see how that goes. But it's, it's all going to be put in place. So anybody out there, I guess, who wants to, I guess, move into this area or further their ability to get peptides. We're going to address that

Unknown Speaker  2:44:54
nice. We just spoke about it.

Speaker 5  2:44:57
No, yeah, yeah. It's kind of funny when I talk to him, sorry, Melvin, but when I talk to him, I said, Look, I'm open to, you know, so many things, eyeball gain, and and and psilocybin and all of these type of things, I said, but the only thing right now that I want to stay away from, personally, is Ayahuasca. I want anything to do with that? Why not?

Unknown Speaker  2:45:20
That's too Wow.

Speaker 3  2:45:21
What's the Yeah, what's the missing link with that answer? Right?

Speaker 5  2:45:26
Oh, my God. Well, first of all, I know there's different types of ayahuasca, and then also they say that the part of the benefit is the set and setting, and so we can control that,

Speaker 3  2:45:39
yeah, well, again, this is one of the more interesting lineups that I have seen, really, in, I guess, conference history. We we have hormones, we have stem cells. We have, yeah, we have you, and then we have a whistle blower, and then we have human trafficking and human security.

Speaker 5  2:46:01
Don't forget the molecule, right? Oh yeah, those guys, which is going to be revolutionary as well. This

Speaker 3  2:46:08
is amazing. So this is really an interesting lineup of talks here. Oh, I encourage everybody to jump in and join we get a tear of Marie Fogarty, horse farm,

Speaker 5  2:46:20
yeah, can't wait for that. Apparently, I'm going to be sleeping in the barn with the horses or so.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:30
TMI, but surely

Benoit Tano  2:46:34
they don't have horse allergy.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:38
Well, I'm sure I can get a peptide for that.

Speaker 3  2:46:42
Okay, alright, again, give us updates about that, but this is something to look forward to.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:47
Oh yeah, yeah. Are

Unknown Speaker  2:46:49
you coming? Doctor Nario, I'm definitely

Speaker 3  2:46:51
going to try. So, okay, good. Definitely we, we will promote this as much as we can. We want the full attendance on this event, yeah. And,

Speaker 5  2:46:59
you know, the umbrella thing, I guess, is under aos i am, you know, so we're promoting all of that underneath that umbrella, right?

Speaker 3  2:47:11
So this is definitely a huge thing, because it's been a while since the group had really a live meetup. So this is one of those golden moments that we need to jump into.

Speaker 5  2:47:25
No, that's great. Yeah, looking forward to it. Alright,

Speaker 3  2:47:29
right. Okay, anything else that you guys want to put in there for that?

Benoit Tano  2:47:35
No, nothing you know. Oh, you know what, everything is on Doctor Burgess now to secure the venue. Otherwise, I'm not sure.

Speaker 3  2:47:45
Okay, well, just to for the ones who are left behind. As you can see, our our how interesting our webinars are we we have, we have information and we have behind this, and this is intellectual banter, so don't think about that. People fighting in an event. So everybody here, this is how intellectuals work it out. So those are just intellectual back and forth. And I'm sure Jay didn't take any offense. Kylie is also fine, so definitely, we're all friends here at the end of the day. No,

Speaker 5  2:48:24
no, I'm 100% in agreement with you. I guess what Kylie was talking about is something that could be discussed and debated for many, many hours,

Speaker 3  2:48:36
right, right? And I'm sure Jay is, he doesn't. We've known Jay for the longest time. Yeah, he doesn't mean any offense. He's there to help us. And of course, again, everybody has different perspectives. But on my end, as our moderator today, I definitely want to explain to everyone that this is something that is something that we've we've been regulating. So,

Speaker 5  2:49:00
yeah, no, this, this is, this is great, yeah, I really hope you can make it one thing I think I feel that is is missing, and that would be either, you know, well, mostly Doctor Tano talking about environmental type of stuff, right? Because I think Dr town, you're, you're doing some AI information, yeah,

Benoit Tano  2:49:23
I'm going to, I'm going to trace to the history of the taproot mediverse. So how do that, and all the books and the documentaries that we have, and how can it benefit people, and how people also can contribute, because it's not just us, it's, uh, whoever wants to join us and contribute, they're allowed to do that.

Speaker 3  2:49:50
Yeah, so that's your lecture, AI bias in healthcare, but it's Anthony Daniels, though, is that supposed to

Speaker 5  2:49:56
be? See, that's not his name, and I Burgess said he's got some sort of a brain thing going on.

Benoit Tano  2:50:04
He was going to do something on AI. And the disadvantage of that for the natives, because it looks like the government is weeding out the natives from the AI progress,

Speaker 5  2:50:18
that's what. And his last name is James, not David. Yeah. All right,

Unknown Speaker  2:50:23
that's in the that should be corrected too,

Benoit Tano  2:50:25
alright, but he said he would not be able to attend, so I don't know. How about that?

Unknown Speaker  2:50:32
Dr Dario, you're gonna have to pick it up.

Speaker 3  2:50:36
Forget about him. Then, sorry. Okay, all right. Anything else you guys? It was a, it was a great night. No,

Speaker 5  2:50:45
it was, no, these guys are on it, man. Well, one thing I was going to say is, geez, does he have any time to do anything? I think he's busy injecting himself all day.

Speaker 3  2:50:56
I know they're both like bros, and they're somewhere out there doing their bro thing, yeah, but in a good way, though, in a good way,

Speaker 5  2:51:04
yeah, yeah, no, that's great. No, appreciate it. I'm so glad he was on. Appreciate you doing this too. We're

Speaker 3  2:51:10
Clearfield. Oh, you know where he is at. He's cruising his life away. He's on, he's on a ship, maybe eating a good buffet. So, yeah, don't, don't think that's him. It's, it's a fake icon, yeah, eating a juicy steak right now as we, oh, wow, we have this interesting webinar. Yeah, that's fine. So Hi, Doctor Bill, well deserved vacation. You deserve no

Speaker 5  2:51:40
kidding, no kidding. But I don't know. I think Doctor Tanner I don't have anything else. Do you have

Benoit Tano  2:51:45
any I have nothing else to say. But I think Doctor Burgess is the key here in terms of informing everybody on Bibi,

Speaker 3  2:51:53
alright. Well, I guess it's, it's to be determined from dr by just Yeah, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:51:58
okay, all right. Sounds good. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:52:02
thank you guys so

Unknown Speaker  2:52:04
much. Good night. Thank you. Bye,


Transcribed by https://otter.ai