Speaker 1  00:14
To address chronic disease, we have to look for the signal failure. We need to map the living, so Hey there,

Speaker 2  00:23
I'm just trying to make sure my microphones are working.

Bill Clearfield  00:29
I heard something

Benoit Tano  00:36
Zoom workplace settings.

Speaker 3  00:40
I am hearing you.

Bill Clearfield  00:42
Yeah, we hear you. Funny,

Speaker 2  00:44
I'm hoping to hear that you'll hear my little video I made. That's where I'm testing, see, I

Speaker 1  01:17
Zero hardware cannot stay healthy for 1000s of years. Indigenous cultures successfully be Bill,

Speaker 2  01:49
how's that? Did that sound terrible, or how did that sound?

Bill Clearfield  01:52
Little chinny, but it's not too bad.

Speaker 2  01:58
All right, let me just double check one more time.

Bill Clearfield  02:04
Yeah, I think it's the nature of the beast.

Speaker 2  02:06
Yeah,

Speaker 1  02:07
this invisible signaling system by observing how life force moves through the living body.

Speaker 2  02:14
How about that?

Bill Clearfield  02:16
I mean, I can hear it,

Speaker 2  02:19
yeah, pretty echoey, or

Bill Clearfield  02:21
yeah,

Speaker 2  02:24
all right, see, do I'm

Bill Clearfield  03:28
That looks good, I Yeah, you signed in twice, Joe, I

Speaker 2  04:06
so somehow I got bumped out, Miss Stiller,

Bill Clearfield  04:12
twice.

Speaker 4  04:17
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  04:18
so I have his co-host, and that's not showing it, showing nothing, and then I got you, so I don't.

Speaker 2  04:27
oh, gotcha. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  04:40
so anybody out there ever have a day where the first patient showed up and then every other one, every single patient after that canceled every single one. We had to, we had to run a Botox special to find something to do. We did the Christmas special, so then I just got a message. Stefan Hartman is running some sort of seminar webinar right the same time we are now and I saw Dr. Mario areas,

Speaker 5  05:53
Bill. Did you see? Did you see the telecast?

Bill Clearfield  05:56
I did not. I originally tied up. Christy said she thought it went okay. It

Speaker 5  06:04
resembled the, the.. and were you in, in front of AOA? That's how we felt

Bill Clearfield  06:11
that bad.

Speaker 5  06:13
No, well, not bad. I just thought that you could relate, because you.. we were.. we were in that place where they, I guess, create laws or where those flexible microphones are at

Bill Clearfield  06:26
the ones when they don't want to hear what you're saying.

Speaker 5  06:29
Well, no, we were in front of senators, man. I mean, why would senators want to hear what we have to say?

Bill Clearfield  06:36
They really don't.

Speaker 5  06:38
I know they're forced to do that, but they had to endure the torture of what we have to say to them. It was fun. Me and Dr. Quinn kind of just played around with

Speaker 4  06:50
it.

Speaker 2  06:51
Want to try this little video audio one more time. Just let me know if it sounds understandable. Okay, so she would like to do this

Speaker 6  07:04
through the creation of osteopathy, bridging ancient energetic manipulation and modern Western science. Still,

Bill Clearfield  07:12
yeah, it's understandable.

Speaker 2  07:16
Okay, okay. Well, we'll give it a shot. It's only a couple of minutes long, but it's of course I put a lot of work into it, so that's why it's dicey. All right, let's see, I won't be sure, sorting out my window, I Nice.

Bill Clearfield  08:25
Yeah, so all right, you're ready to go there, Dr. James. We, we do our, yeah, we do our little tip in a week first before we get started.

Speaker 2  08:35
Sure, let's, let's hear from Melbourne first. That's the best way to start.

Speaker 5  08:42
Yeah, this is up your alley. So, this is.. we.. I kind of got this from yesterday, and it's also part of our curriculum. So, as every.. I guess you guys don't know, yesterday the Nevada Homeopathic Medical Board stood before the legislature. legislator, and again, one of the questions that they, that stayed with me was they were asking about proof on how effective homeopathy is. What are the studies? So, those are fair questions, and as physicians, we should welcome those questions, because science should challenge us, right? So, the first thing that came to my mind was the product called Trumeal, I'm sure you guys heard of this in your practice. Around our circles, Trumeal has almost become like a verb, it's like sprained your ankle, true meal it, muscle strain Trumeal post opswelling, yeah, Trumeal that, and it became like the Swiss Army knife of inflammation beyond anecdotes. What does that sign say? So one of the classic studies that by Theil and Borjo was a double blind placebo control trial involving 73 patients with post traumatic kneerthosis. So patients received three intraarticular injections every eight days, so compared with saline, the trammel group demonstrated greater reduction in swelling, 73% versus 51% better mobility, less pain, and reduced joint effusion, and no adverse events were reported. Fast forward 2024 Gurtis Meyer and colleagues performed the Shremed trial, a multicenter double grind RCT involving 625 patients with acute ankle sprains, so patients receive Tremele gel, placebo gel, or Diclofenac gel. Tramell showed superior pain reduction compared to placebo and was non-inferior to Diclofenac in several measures, so time to like 50% pain reduction was actually shorter or shortest with tromil for about six days versus seven days for placebo and diclofenac, it's just one day, but for somebody who's experiencing pain tremendously, this is huge. So one day is very important. So now I know some orthopedic surgeons are going to get nervous there just to relax. I'm not suggesting we throw away NSAIDs, so I'm merely pointing out that occasionally homeopaths and orthopedists may accidentally agree on something. So, when I, okay, when legislators ask, where are the studies, the answers isn't not that the homeopathy has all the answers, but neither is the answer that there is no evidence. So, Trumeal again represents an example of how we can move from anecdotes to randomized controlled trials and speak the language of science, because ultimately science doesn't weaken medicine. Science, science basically strengthens it. So, thank you. And that's our week of the week.

Bill Clearfield  11:41
Depends, it depends on whose science you're listening to.

Speaker 5  11:44
Our science,

Speaker 2  11:47
scientism, the

Speaker 5  11:50
science that we see through our lens.

Speaker 3  11:53
Yeah, and Dr. Nario, you put that pretty nicely. They seem to not just throw out a nice challenge. It was more of a, we don't have evidence that homeopathy works.

Speaker 5  12:06
Yeah, so yeah, Dr. Quinn was a witness to that,

Speaker 7  12:10
but Dr. Nario, like I said last night, it's not our job to do the research for these people. They too can, you know. I'm sorry, if you became a doctor, you know how to do research, don't you?

Speaker 5  12:21
There you go.

Speaker 7  12:23
That question out from time to time.

Bill Clearfield  12:30
Yeah, well, I keep going back to that, that the real medical doctor conference I went to in May with the endocrinologists, and they did none of that. Basically, their stick was we're board certified endocrinologists, so what we say goes.

Speaker 7  12:46
No,

Bill Clearfield  12:47
I mean, basically that, that's that was it. So right, Joe, you were there. Yeah, yeah, there you heard him, right?

Speaker 2  13:00
Oh, yeah, all

Bill Clearfield  13:02
right. Well, so we have a special guest star tonight, Dr. Anthony James, who's got a credential list as long as both arms and both legs. He's the founder of Soma Veda College of Natural Medicine. He's an international educator, longtime teacher of traditional Thai medicine, Ayurveda, indigenous healing traditions, Dr. James is internationally recognized as an educator, author, practitioner of traditional healing arts, with more than four decades of experience in natural medicine. He's widely regarded as one of the pioneers responsible for introducing traditional Thai medicine and Thai yoga therapy to Western audiences, he's authored one of the first English language books on Thai massage. I won't get this right, Nuat Thai traditional Thai medical massage. Did I get that right? 1983 people published his award-winning textbook, Ayurveda of Thailand, indigenous traditional Thai medicine and yoga therapy, which received a 2017 Elit silver medal and AAPNA Veda Vyasa work. Did I get that one right? For excellence in Ayurvedic education. He studied extensively entirely in India, China, Burma, Ecuador, and the United States. He's integrative, integrating traditional healing systems with contemporary wellness approaches. He was honored with Thailand's prestigious Friend of Thailand award and became one of the first Westerners recognized as an master. master teacher of traditional Thai medicine.

Speaker 2  14:46
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  14:46
you pronounce that.

Speaker 2  14:48
Yeah, our time,

Bill Clearfield  14:49
Dr. James continues to teach internationally. He's very active in the research group, that's that's sort of one of our wings here, and I know that you're, you spend a lot of time looking at the biases of AI towards, you know, Western medicine and away from traditional therapies. So, with that, I kind of titled this "Everything New. Everything new was old, or everything old is new all along. Everything new is old all along, so a lot of, a lot of what we learned is that is new is is has been around for a long time, and it's been forgotten, or, or you know, sort of packaged in a different way. So, Dr. James, take it away.

Speaker 2  15:36
First thing I would say, thank you for the introduction, and I see a lot of familiar faces, which is wonderful, new faces, which is wonderful, but I'd like to say that the name of my college is the American College of Natural Medicine, the name of the system I teach is the Soma Veda Integrated Traditional Therapies, and so sometimes those two names get conflated with some of it at college, but it's actually we're a Florida authorized DOE authorized degree granting college of medicine here in Florida called the American College of Natural Medicine, and so I'm gonna not really talk about myself, I'd rather just spend the time that we have getting into some more succinct discussions, and Dr. Tanner is in this call, and a few others, and it's been a big topic this last year on this concept of integration, integrative immunity, integrative strategies, functional medicine. I'm also advisory board for functional medicine association. associations and whatnot of various kinds, it's it's a big topic, and I love it, because this concept of integrated medicine, integrative medicine is really a functional bridge to get from what most people in the world think of as medicine to what Americans think of as merit as medicine, and sort of to bridge that gap, right, and maybe not, not to have such a jarring, even oppositional interface, and I really want to advocate for less jarring integration, at least the exploration of integration of these concepts, like Doctor, we were just hearing about the trauma homeopathics, and you know, you have this idea, you have groups of medicos that will say, "Oh, there's there's no proof, no science, no whatever. I'm like, "Okay, not maybe not to your satisfaction or criteria, but Hanuman's homeopathics have been in primary use for a billion people for over 200 300 years, and so I think it's a little bit of hubris for a group of 20 or 30 or even 1000 American, primarily American practitioners to say that the whole world is stupid, dumb, and ugly, and that they don't know what they think they know and they don't believe what they think they believe and they are not seeing the results that they think they were they're seeing and if they only knew better they would they would give up their superstitious rights of energy based medicine and come on board with Pfizer and Moderna, and get it, get with the program, and I just think it's hubris. India has over a billion people, okay, a bit over, over, actually over five times the total population of the United States, and homeopathy is Class A category a primary care medical medicine approved of by the National Government of India? Okay, that is today. That's not some ancient past, 100 years ago, or what have you. Every single hospital in the country of India integrates homeopathic medicines and standards of care for every conceivable illness that you can, that you can name. Okay, and so to say that, that there's no validation that any of that works well. I will agree that maybe there's not your particular little niche criteria for what is acceptable validation, but I'm also going to say I just don't believe that the billions of people in India are making it up, that it's placebo, that it is a fantasy or a fairy tale, which they have now been perpetuating for several 100 years. It's been institutional medicine in India since 1850 since 1850 to the present day. It is highly researched. The government of India is researching these topics, and even the ones that I'm going to talk about, as is the government of Thailand, as is the government of Malaysia, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, and China, which is very, very interested in Ayurveda, Ayurveda being the primary medicine of the continent of Asia, including South Asia, widely practiced from Tibet to the Philippines, and a lot of people don't, don't know that they just don't know that they don't know that Ayurveda is a dominant medicine from Tibet, all of Asia, half of Russia, half of China, all the way to the Philippines.

Speaker 2  21:25
So we're looking at if we were to say the people who practice Ayurveda or tangentially derivative related to Ayurveda practices today in the world, it's give or take around 7 billion people, so that is that is substantially more than the number of people in the world who believe Western, quote, quote unquote, like they say in England, they don't, I mean, sorry, in India they don't call allopathy Western medicine, they call it English medicine, because of course it was brought during the with the British Raj and and the British ruling of the country of India for 55 years and so but but 7 billion people in the world think what I'm going to talk about here is in fact their definition of what is medicine, and so just to call it superstitious, or just to say there's insufficient data points to validate it from from a niche, and I want to say a niche point of view, because it's it's the smallest percent of the smallest percent, maybe a very loud percent of Western doctors who you know want to claim to know the end of all and beginning and ending of everything that is dealing with health and wellness and illness and disease and infection, and so on and so forth. I think it's, it's, I'm just putting it out there, in my opinion, it's a little bit of hubris, and I think because I've been involved in these, these cultures directly in person, right, lived many, many years in Asia, and I have won many awards with the major governmental medical institutes, and and India and Thailand and so on and so forth that they believe that their medicine is valid, this there's no question, there's no if and or but there's no question, they're not conservative, like well, we think our traditional medicine is valid, we, we want to believe our traditional medicine is effective. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They believe they are big believers in the validity, but here's what they do. What they also is, they're not luddites, they're not luddites. Okay, and, and what I mean by that is they appreciate all the modern technologies, which may also enhance the practice of medicine, so they're not opposed to laboratory assays, they're not opposed to high-tech medical procedures, if in contrast they are not more lethal, because these Asian cultures have a tradition of a kind of morality. In India, it's called the practice of ahimsa, h a h i m s a hamsa, which actually is, if you want to say, it's constriction on medical practice, that it is required that the primary medical practice not kill people. Okay, so they, they do not support medical attrition mortality as, as an acceptable practice. Okay, and they tend to criticize doctors who have high numbers of medical attrition in their practice, because it's considered not to be a spiritual practice to offer your clients incidental to your practice of medicine, right, even if it's a side effect, or so on, and so forth, so they really prefer medical pathways that are non-lethal, because they believe that they are spiritually accountable for the lethality, the incidental lethality of their practice of medicine, and this tradition of ahimsa is the dominating overall philosophical criteria of Ayurveda. Okay, because Ayurveda, by definition, is called the science of life, so it's all about it's like one of my professors in Calcutta, now called Kolkata, Dr. Pillai, like he used to say onto me, we afford to be the living, not for to be the dying, we afford the living patient, not for the dying patient. Okay, and he literally, that's what he meant, okay, that it was about quality of life and longevity, and another one of my professors, Dr. Nariam Murthy. Okay, Guruji Professor Narayan Murthy, also of the Open University, Dr. Murthy said the practice of medicine, which is solely performed for the performance of the production of income cannot legitimately be called a practice of medicine. Period. The end. That was his criteria. He says if the sole function of the medical institution was to produce income for investors, then by definition that medical institution could not be considered to be an expression of medicine, or what is a definition of medicine. Now I want to say this. He did not mean that physicians do not have a right to make a really good living.

Speaker 2  27:14
That's it's actually not what he meant. He meant if the sole function of the organization was for profit, then that is bad medicine, and leads to bad medicine, and always had, and because they have anecdotal traditions of medical practice for 1000 years, for the last 1000 years they had many examples of what they called institutional failures, institutional failure groups of people who decided to practice medicine to get rich, and then who did more harm than they did good, and so they just.. it's a real philosophically, it's kind of a simple thing. I am not poo-pooing institutions because I'm part of one, and I believe, and I support, and I consult with institutions. I'm just saying that the Occidental and the holistic approach, which originates in the Asian cultures and Native American cultures, because I'm going to throw that out there too, which are considered to be, if nothing else, first cousins, because they're so tangentially congenial, it's just like the Dalai Lama, a couple of years ago, declared Crow medicine and declared Navajo medicine to be exact equivalents of Tibetan medicine, the Dalai Lama, 17th hereditary leader of the Ning Mapai Yellow Hat School of Tibetan traditional medicine and acupuncture in a public forum called Floyd Rule Bird and Harlan Bonali and elders of five different tribes that their medical practices were exact equivalents of the highest level of practice of traditional Chinese, traditional Ayurveda, and traditional Tibetan medicine. That was not my words, those are the words of the Dalai Lama, and you know we have some good recordings from those meetings, and we have some good photographs of Dalai Lama in an eastern southeastern Standing rock all the way down to Navajo and Hopi. So I am a Native American person who has learned Oriental medicine in order to bring it as a lost art to my Native American family. So in 25 words or less, that's Dr. J's trajectory. It's like that's my gig. Okay, is that a lot of traditional Native American medicine was lost in the diaspora of Native American culture and the reservation inculcation of the reservation period. Many, many people died. Let's just put it that way. Many, many tribal medicine people died without passing on their traditions. We know from anthropologists like University of Oklahoma Department of Anthropology that Native American medicine was quite sophisticated in the past, and in fact many, many medical procedures commonly done by Western doctors, allopaths, MD, surgeons, and so on, actually began as Native American medical practices. They were then exported to Europe by way of military and traders, commerce, and religion for 500 years, where they were adopted by the Europeans as primary medicine, and then 300 years later began to come to the United States, and mostly around the late 1700s to middle 1800s and then were adopted and the West as primary care medicine without any attribution to their Native American roots, and I always like to give this is as per University of Oklahoma American Indian medicine Virgil Vogel. Okay, great, great treaties right there. Okay, but for example, the glaring example is the syringe. You know, Western doctors really act like they own that syringe, man. Like that's one of those things that Western medicine is famous for, the inoculation, the syringe, the vaccine delivery system of a capsule and a needle and an inoculant, and so no, no, no, no, no. 500 years before it showed up in Europe, it was a Native American tool used by medicine men and women to inoculate, to actually vaccinate, to actually inoculate with medicine, okay, which would have been teachers, infusions, natural remedies, even pure water, okay, which, which 500 years ago you could actually find a well with pure water and no micro plastics, go figure. What are the chances that that can't be true, can it?

Speaker 2  32:19
So it was exported to Europe, where the European doctors were flabbergasted, literally stupefied at this technology of being able to take a porcupine quill with a cat gut or a fish gut tied with sinew, where you could put that in your mouth and dip that the sharpened end of the porcupine quill in an infusion and suck your cheeks up, which would inflate the bladder on the end of the porcupine quill, sucking that in that infusion, right, that tea, that medicinal tea, that herbal tea, that homeopathic remedy into the device, and then you could stick that in your client, and you could squeeze the bulb, and you could inoculate that. Okay, 100% Native American invention, and was known and written about in diaries for over 500 years. Okay, before it shows up here now. Western people, Western technology, right? They improved on it: steel needles, sterile needles, glass capsules, rubber. Well, before that, before they had the draw syringe, you know, they had the bulb syringe, which was virtually identical to the Native American syringe, right, and so, yes, the Western technology improved on it, and, and we have some really, really nice needles today. We have really nice syringes today, but we didn't invent them, that's not our technology, right, and so those tech kind of ideas, the idea that valuable things that come from these other cultures, well, that hasn't gone away. There's still just as much opportunity today to gain useful information about wellness, what is health and technology, and so on, as ever before in the past. Okay, just as much today. Now I'm going to start with a, if I can share my screen, you guys can yell at me anytime if you like. Let me see if I can get a screen share going here, I'm here, is why, okay? Can you see? It's that, readable. Okay, so I'm going, going to whirlwinds, and, if you have some notes, that's perfectly fine, because we'll have a little Q&A, I think, at the end. We'll have enough time for that. This is an overview of a concept that I.. that Dr. Clearfield actually.. I don't know what the proper term is, but no. he downloaded it into my head as a topic, and so I was like, "Oh, okay. He said, "You're going to give a talk on ancient wisdom and modern healing. I'm like, "Okay, then that's what we're going to do. So, thank you very much for that, because I think this is going to be useful even past this discussion today. Okay, so the integration of indigenous traditions and modern Osteopathy. Now, my disclaimer, fair disclaimer, although I know osteopaths and I have attended osteopathic conferences in the past, and I'm on an osteopathic research board. I am not an osteopath, I am osteo adjacent. So, if you want to put a little dash in there, so if I miss, if I misspeak about some something of substance about Osteopathy, please errors and omissions, please forgive me. I'm still learning myself about about the osteopathic community and sort of ways and mores, and there's my, there's my disclaimer. Okay, but what I want to do, because I've been in this community now for a while, and we've had many discussions on how what were the opportunities for integration and integration strategies, and especially I owe a debt in this area to Dr. Tenno, who at least I see that he's logged into this call tonight, so I'm even going to reference some of his work, and if I butcher that, apologies for that as well. Okay, so let's, let's move on, see how I can get this to go all right. So what we're talking about is illuminated blueprint is integrating Ayurveda and traditional Thai medicine into osteopathic practice. Now, Ayurveda and traditional Thai medicine are what the Thais call Monk on my Monk on, okay, Monk on my Monk on which means in Thai language, same, same, but different, so classical Indian Ayurveda, the mother of Ayurveda, if you will, 4000 years ago, and then distributed all over the world over several 1000 years, which means that the further you get away from Say Kerala in south India to Punjab in north or Tibet or Thailand to the east or Philippines to the south. Okay, there are variations. It varies.

Speaker 2  38:14
It's called colloquial variation, and so there is central, southern, northern, eastern, and western traditions of Ayurveda, and there's Ayurveda in China, which is integrated at Big Way into traditional Chinese medicine. Those of you acupuncture docs who are also acupuncturists who are in this call, at the very least, you've heard of Twina. Okay, and Twina is what happened to Ayurvedic Marma Siski when it is adopted by Taoist. Okay, so the points in Tweena, the lines, the methodologies, what they call the extraordinary meridians in Twina, and also in Japanese Anna acupuncture school, are in fact prana natis. They are in fact the Ayurveda energy lines. They are not meridians, classically speaking, but they've been adopted formally by the majority of the teaching of acupuncture in China and Korea and Japan, and they call that these promenades extra or extraordinary meridians. Okay, or Meridian extensions, like Dr. Massanago called them Meridian extensions. Okay, so we're looking at three fields here. Ancient wisdom really focuses on the terrain, so those of you progressive docs who are getting somewhat on board with with this idea of how do you integrate ideas of terrain therapy into your teaching. Well, I'm going to give you the clue that was given to Antoine Beauchamp at the late 18th century or early 19th century in Paris, which was he was introduced to train therapy by the French Jesuit monks at the Institute of Auricular Therapy in Paris, France, and so they introduced Antoine Boshawn to the Oriental view of the world, the Oriental cosmology, which he then adopted wholesale, but as a Western scientist and a Western professor of medicine, of course, we know his most famous student was Louis Pasteur, but and the Pasteur Institute was the separation from Beauchamp and France. All right, so, but we can also go right to the source, just like Antoine Doshas did, for ideas and information and philosophical conceptual frameworks of what is the terrain, okay, and so I'm coming from that, and we have the indigenous traditional time medicine, classic Ayurveda, and they have between them one of their core theories that defines terrain externally and internally is concept of elements and concepts of Doshas. Okay, and then we have on the right side we have modern science, which is mechanistic. Okay, mechanistic, and literally, that's the definition of the difference between holistic medicine traditionally and modern Western medicine, is this idea of holism versus reductionist isolationist specialization concept, and then somewhere in the middle, okay, we have root cause resolution, so I believe good doctors want root cause resolution for their patients, that that they don't just want to see an amelioration reduction of primary or obvious presenting symptoms that, in fact, if they could, if they would have, could have, should, that they would like for no matter what the issue of the patient is, if we could get to conceptually a root cause, and then at the same time ameliorate symptoms pathology, but at the same time adopt address root causes, and I actually think that osteopathic medicine agrees with this principle 100% At least, that's what that's what I've been informed. If I'm wrong, please put a note there somewhere and tell me I'm wrong about that. Still on the illuminated blueprint, so we use in Native American medicine, we use a concept called two-eyed seeing, which in Navajo language is called Etwamuck. I know it's a great word, Etwamuck, but basically what it means is you have a left and a right eye, okay? And the world, like, if you cover your right eye with your right hand, and you look around your office, or you look at the screen, or you look around the world for a minute, and then you uncover it, and you cover your left eye, and you do the same, and look around the room, look around the world, look at the screen, look at your neighbor. You will come to a realization that what the right eye sees is actually not the same as what the left eye sees. And then when you open both eyes and you look around the world, you see what is generally considered to be a more accurate view of the world, whether it's a more accurate depth perception or color or light or movement, etc. But anyway, the what the left eye sees is not what the right eye sees.

Speaker 2  44:19
So when you have what's called a prejudice of style, and you only look at the world one way, okay, that's called right-eyed seeing, okay, if you have a prejudice of style that only looks at your work, your medicine, your practice from the point of view of a philosophical premise, a presuppositional premise, or what that's called the left eye scene, and when we put both eyes together is when we actually have this capacity to see what's real in front of us, and so orientalists are actually realists. I know. I know a lot of.. I have a couple of friends, like, who are nephrologists, and they think they're pretty real and pretty, you know, down to earth, if you will, nuts and bolts kind of people, the nephrologist. But I've had this discussion with them, and it's very interesting, because they can only place credence to what they can weigh and measure, to what they can weigh and measure, and yet the physicist and the philosophist tell us that 99.99999 to 50 zeros of the universe is invisible to human perception, so that means that virtually whatever we see, whatever we think is real, and what we see, it is actually almost invisibly rare, almost invisibly rare, because most of the world we do not have the capacity to actually see, not even with instruments, not with an electron microscope, not with the most sensitive instruments that there are, and that includes even things, co-factors in the blood, like viruses, for example, which are especially challenging to cough up a gold standard sample and a viral and a vial of any virus, I'm not going to get, you know, go much further than that, but these two worlds, okay, we have the ancient indigenous wisdom, which is energetic, systemic, and elemental diagnostic blueprint treats the whole patient via dynamic equilibrium, so not only does it treat the patient from a point of view of dynamic equilibrium. Okay, that is in fact the defining characteristic of whether the therapeutic process works or not. If the, if the client becomes more wholly functional in their life, spirit, mind, and body. No matter what it looks like in a temporal way, the treatment will be considered successful, and whereas, and in the Western way, we declare success, maybe with a positive result on a test. I've heard it, positive result. Oh, you're doing great. You have a positive result in your chat, your test. You're completely not functional in your life, and you're not likely to be functional ever again in your life. But we're going to say the treatment was was productive, was successful, because your tests are within an equilibrium that we think is positive. Okay, and that's a qualitative difference, right? But what I want to say is, I think both are right, both are right, both schools are right, the tests are right, but the idea of looking at the client from their integration of function in their whole life as a criteria of success or wellness or of the positivity of their outcomes, that is also a necessary right. Okay, we move on to again. It's this idea of hubris. Ayurveda has a 5000 year lineage of functional medicine. And do you think the kings and the common people of the past cared or loved one iota less for the people in their life, and for their families, and for their communities. And in 5000 years, do you think that for one minute, if they could have been handed a better medicine, that they wouldn't have taken that up in the immediacy? They would not have absorbed that, and grab that and claim that as hard as they would anything else, and the answer is, of course, they would, of course they would, and the reason why they didn't, because now when you talk about Asia, India, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Burma, Tibet, Nepal, Bhutan, China, Yunnan China, Sichuan China, and parts of Russia, etc. all the way to the Philippines, right? They were introduced to Western allopathy in the 1700s They were introduced to Western allopathy. They had every opportunity to grow an allopathic tradition at the same rate as the Western countries, like England, for example.

Speaker 2  49:47
They had, they had the same opportunity, and they looked at over and over again over centuries, and they said, you know, Western medicine has its positive aspects, but it also has quite a few negative, and we overall feel that the positives of the oriental way of approach outweigh that of the Western approach, and the only reason India adopted English medicine is because the Raj, the British government, British military government made it a requirement. They closed every Ayurveda school in the country for 55 years. It was illegal to teach Ayurveda in the country of India for 55 years. English medicine was the only legitimate medicine in the country of India for over 50 years, and the oldest college of Ayurveda in India opened in 1955 same year I was born, 1955 within six months of partition and Indian independence, and that that university still exists. Okay, and so, but here's the point. Now we're here 2025 and yes, the National Government of India does recognize the English medicine and promotes it and researches it and has medical schools, just like you understand them, but yet the Ayush and the National Institute of Ayurveda and Unani Medicine is not subservient to the National Institute of Health. They are equal partners in determining the medical future of India. Okay, so 5000 year in Thailand, Ayurveda documented an institutional primary practice of medicine is give or take from the 11th century. Okay, give or take, and the books and educational materials, and so on, used in Thailand are exactly the same as in India, the Chiraka Samhita, the Sushruta Samhita, oldest texts of medical surgery on the planet Earth. They're exactly the same. Okay, they're just translated into Pali and translated into Thai language, and of course, the oldest school of traditional Thai medicine in Thailand is Pla, what cheddar pawn, which is actually it's in several places around the country. The first iteration of that medical school is actually in Chiang Rai, right on the border of Burma, and and the capital of Suko, Thai, and then another Watpo is built and is exists for about 400 years, and Ayutthaya, the former capital of Thailand, and then when Bangkok was settled after the Great Burmese War, it was the first building built in the new city of Sri Ayutthayaka, or the new capital of Thailand, and that makes sense, you know, you had hundreds of 1000s of people who were fleeing a particularly egregious, violent war of attrition with the Burmese, and they got across the Manama Chapria River to safety, and the first thing they built was a hospital that makes perfect sense. Okay, and that hospital still exists today, and the, if you will, the teachings and management of Watpo were part and participle of the formation of the Royal Thai Department of Thai traditional medicine and the institutional standards for the practice of traditional medicine in Thailand. I'm a professor, I'm a licensed card carrying publicly acknowledged professor of medicine in that system. Okay, and which means I can teach anywhere in Thailand the same lesson I'm teaching you. Let's move on. Four branches of traditional Thai Ayurvedic medicine. Number one, internal medicine, pet side. Okay, the use of plants, minerals, food as internal and external medicine to correct systemic elemental imbalances. One of my friends and teacher, Pat Khru Anakti Anatta Suk wrote a book in 11 volumes where he documented 40,000 med medicinal herbs used in traditional Thai medicine. Okay, 40,011 volumes. That is the Bible of Thai herbology in Thailand today. You've heard of Khru Tom, you know that's a Thai medicine that's getting a lot of slack right now, because it's also it's used for cancer and inflammatory disease in Thailand medicinally, but people use it here to get high, and so either what do they call it, gas station crank or gas station heroin, Thai khraton, so it's pretty controversial. Well, it's one of 40,000 medicinal herbs in traditional Thai medicine. The Thai government is releasing research on many, many of these herbs, not just khratom. Okay, second branch of traditional Thai medicine is called spiritual and energetic, which is in Thai puja, and wai Khru, wai Khru, we why we put our hands together and do namaste mudra, which is a traditional Buddhist greeting, also traditional Hindu greeting, also traditional Christian greeting, many Christian Orthodox monks greet each other. They use the why when they greet each other.

Speaker 2  56:06
That's how old it is. But the idea is that Chirothesia is the practitioner as the extension of sacred intention, literally, literally addressing the Kwan in Thai, as Thai word kwan means consciousness by a frequency and ritual, so the theory is that whatever you believe is sacred, whatever you believe is god, regardless of your religion, regardless of your spiritual practice. Okay, the why says whatever that is in me sees pays respect and honors that within you. Okay, and then that establishes a point of view that spirit, sacredness, great spirit, God, Jesus in the world today does not have hands. Okay, but I do. Spirit doesn't have hands, but you do tag your it. That's the principle of Chirothesia. It's the imposition of the hands as if you were divinity or you were the divine source yourself. You are in fact the avatar of the sacred, and that the practice of medicine is given to us by Jesus' example. Okay, was that Jesus laid hands on the sick. Okay, why did he lay hands on the sick? He didn't have to. Nobody made him lay hands on the sick. It was an intentional act, repeated over and over and over again, where he emphasized, brought attention to it, told other people to do it, do it like me, do better than me, etc. etc. But here, what if he was in fact the Son of God, which I believe he was, but if he was the Son of God, he didn't have to lay hands on people to heal them, could he not have just wished them well? Could he not have just positively thought them well, could he not have just arranged the universe of elements and how they relate to that person's illness and body and life and mind, body and spirit, and just snapped his fingers and had them to be well. Sure, he could, sure he could. If one's true, so is the other, but, but he chose not to do that. As an example, he said, "No, no, no, no, no, you got to get a hold of the sick person, give them a squeeze. So I think osteo past will be able to agree with me, that's a good thing. Okay. External medicine, Gagha bomb, by no Thai indigenous chiro practice, bone setting, cupping, Thai yoga compression, targeting myofascial sin channels. Tiny little sidebar, 30 seconds. I am very good friends with Dr. Brown, who wrote an unauthorized autobiography of Deedee Palmer just a few years ago, and in his unauthorized, heavily researched for 20 years, he traveled everywhere that D.D. Palmer went in his life. Dr. Brown went to that place to research chiropractic, and D.D. Palmer in that place, and that included all over Asia. Okay, and so in Dede Palmer's biography, which he wrote, he also mentioned how, when he did the great tour of Asia, because he was a wealthy man, right, when he did the great tour of Asia, like so many rich Americans did at the turn of the century that he was particularly influenced by the bone setters of Asia, and he went to Thailand. TT Palmer went to Thailand. Okay, and he was particularly impressed with the bone setters of Southeast Asia. Southeast Asia is a name for Thailand. It used to be called Siam. Okay, well, the school, the place, the clinic where he would have seen that is that Watpo I was just mentioning a few minutes ago. It was there then under same management. It is there now under same management. It's a multi-generational, literally ancestral. It's very nepotistic, you know. The monks have been running that school there for since 1763 So, when DD Palmer was there, he would have seen what they were doing, okay, and in the Thai way, okay, it's actually called guy, which means bone setting to restore the structure of the body, but it's not just to restore the articulating function of osseous subluxations, it is to restore the inhibition of the flow of energy. The primary fundamental principle of traditional time medicine is the greatest potential for gain or loss of energy in the human body occurs at the joints.

Speaker 2  1:01:17
The greatest potential for gain or loss of energy in the body occurs in the joints, and Sai Bah, they say this is why so many illnesses begin with symptoms in the joints, whether it's infectious or otherwise, whether it's immune system or otherwise. So they have always emphasized through this practice of India, and it's called Mana Siki Saat and Thai, it's called Roxa Tangua and Thai, this idea of the manipulation of the body to what to share, exchange, to balance, to create reciprocities of stasis, homeodynamic stasis, and energy of the body, and then other circulation, blood, venous supply, lymphatic drainage, interstitial fluid, inhibition of passive neural expression, and so on, and so forth. Those are considered secondary, they're not considered primary, and then the last one, of course, is maternal health, midwifery, and pediatric foundations, ensuring health sovereignty from both. Now, I want to say this: traditional Thai doctors and traditional Ayurvedic doctors in India are required to train as midwives. I was required to train as a midwife, and I did an internship as a midwife, and why is that? They said, well, medicines from birth to death, and you need to have the big picture, you need to see the life of people pre-born, during delivery, postpartum, and then you need to be with people when they pass on, when they die, and then you're with them everywhere in between, and when you're with the people from birth to death, you have a different relationship with your patients, if you know your average patient, if you delivered your average patient 20 years ago, 30 years ago, 40 years ago, and you're treating them now for cancer. You have a different relationship with that patient than you would had you not delivered them. And then, if we're talking about other things like psychiatry, mental health, psychological, emotional disorders, and so on, when the patient comes to you, guess what? You know their whole family, you know everything about them, you know their job, you know their military background, you know their history, you know if they drink or not, you know if they have alcoholism or drug abuse in their history, you know if they have a history of family violence. Every doctor in the community knows that about every patient in their community, and because of that, okay, the theory is, and I will say, you know, they believe it's not a theory, but it's a fact, is that the physicians tend to treat patients differently, who are essentially their family, they tend to treat them differently. Okay, but those are the four branches of the traditional Thai medicine. I'm not going to go stay too long on this Cosmology of diagnosis, so it's called Samkhya creation principles, and that everything comes from the source that's called Mahad or Buddhi, and then it's differentiated in manifestation by the ego, and then the ego manifests in five different elements, and those five elements form the basis of all that there is, so ultimately every imbalance of spirit, mind, and body is considered to be first an elemental imbalance. In other words, we're going from where we live to sort of more ethereal, and then second, all chronic illness, it has an ego aspect, has a personality aspect. Another way I say it is, there's a psychological corollary to every injury and every chronic illness, and unless you address the psychiatric, if you will, the mental, the emotional attributes of whatever the illness or imbalance is, you cannot say that you have holistically solved it, because there's still this other part, which is the idea that the personality part. Now, diagnosis is very simple. The typical Ayurvedic physician only assesses three things. Okay, and that is the balance of the tri Dosha now each of the elements is actually compare composed of the influence of two elements, so Vata is either air, Pitta is fire water, Kapha is water earth. Now you could also say that the the tri Dosha, the each of these, they're called Dosha. Each of them is in fact a metabolism, anabolism, catabolism, metat metabolic metabolism. So, the they are representing the three what we see in the West as metabolic differentiation. So, it's like a shorthand, but don't forget Vata is still ether and air, Pitta is still fire and water, and so it wouldn't be just Pitta, it would be water dominant Pitta or fire dominant water.

Speaker 2  1:06:54
Okay, but this is the simplest assessment to to learn. Most students I can teach them how to do this Ayurvedic assessment, this Nadi Vighyan, this 3000 year old medical assessment. Most students I can teach in a weekend how to do this and do it pretty darn well. And with Dr. Tanos' help, we've discussed this. Maybe in the next year, we're going to have an app for Ayurvedic assessment. It's going to be a really good one to make it easy for non-Indian practitioners to add this, but you see here, Vata is kinetic energy. It represents the nervous system and catabolic metabolism, PITTA is thermal energy, which is also interpreted as digestion and digestive capacity, and Kapha is potential latencies, structural integrity, lubrication, Anabolism. Okay, and latencies are important in Ayurveda. We diagnose illness by what's not happening, not necessarily what is happening, but what should be happening that's not happening. Okay, here's another chart on differentiation of these Vata, arikinetic, petta fiery thermal, Kapha, earthly structural, you know, and just a minute or two, you could easily memorize these, I think pretty much anybody could. Okay, now it gets a little tricky, because not only are we looking at these three Doshas for our metabolic cues, okay, but in Ayurveda we're taught there are five bodies, so and each of these bodies has its Vata PITTA Kapha indications or characteristics of influence, right, and of course the innermost body is that encapsulated ego or or the fundamental identity of the patient, right, physical body is on the outside, and so all physical therapies are treating that body, energetic or maintenance body is is internal to the physical body, all energetic vibrational frequency medicine, light sound, music, electricity, PEMF, whatnot, that is for the energetic or matrix body more than the physical body, and then there's the mental emotional body, which says every treatment program has to have a mental part, because that's how you get to the fundamental being of the patient, and then when you do all of these at the same time, that's considered comprehensive, and that's considered holistic. Then we talk about the functional anatomy of energy, or in Thai, Sipsen, and an Indian Ayurveda, they're called Prana Nadis, and I already mentioned how the Chinese acupuncture schools of extraordinary meridians and Meridian extensions, that this is what they are actually charting, so for example, on the left side, that little diagram of a man there, with that, with that geometric pattern of lines and points, that's actually an enhanced photograph from an actual temple illustration carved in stone that I took with my own camera. Okay, but there are corollaries with nerve, there are corollaries with structure. So, for example, the most important energy line in Ayurveda, and in traditional Thai medicine, and in Native American medicine is the central core. It's the central core in acupuncture, the meridian changmo. Okay, but in Ayurveda it's called Susha Nadi, okay, and then we have its equivalent in Thai medicine. Well, it represents the spine, okay, and it represents the spine's influence on every joint in the body, and so the energy of Sensumana, which is what it's called in Thai, travels outward first to the major joints, to the shoulders, to the hips and pelvis, to the elbows, to the wrists, to the knees, to the feet, to the articulations of the neck, and even to the cranium, and that all of those joints are actually valves, are seen as valves, they're called loam in Thai, L O M, and they actually control the dominant flow of energy in the spine, so whereas some people, like I know some chiropractors, they know it all starts with the spine, because that's the way the structure looks. Okay, but from an energy point of view, that in fact the structure of the spine may actually be determined by tension and the energy that is outside the spine, and which is traveling to the spine. Okay, it's just I'm just putting it out there, that's actually maybe a little bit different than what you've heard. Central pillars and Sumana Sushumna Nadi. Okay, origins at the tip of the tongue, and it goes to the mid most point of the perineum at the base of the torso.

Speaker 2  1:12:40
Okay, and it regulates all the other energy lines, so it's the most important one in meditation, it's the most important one in pranayama, or the exercise of breath and breathing, and focused breathing, which, as a lot of you already know, that there are many benefits to simply breathing, okay, you can't live long without breath, right? Difference between Chinese medicine and Thai medicine is all the lines on the left side of the body are considered feminine and yin, and all the lines on the right side of the body are considered male, masculine, or solar, and they have different names, so the meridians and tie that the Nadis, they're not bilateral, they're unilateral. Okay, and treatments have unilateral emphasis, depending on whether an illness is determined to be a left side dominant illness or a right side dominant illness, and I want to intrigue your mind about that, and just kind of think about your patients, and ask yourself, have you noticed that your patients have a left or right side dominance in their illness pattern, which, all things being equal, this shouldn't make any difference, okay. again, beyond the mat, we're up, we're off the chart here with energy, right? The the osteopathic connection here is it perfectly describes the behavior of the fascia web. Fascia is not static, it responds to piezoelectric currents. By the way, we know this thanks to one of my former professors, Bell Labs research scientist, Dr. Marcel Vogel, who wrote some of the very first papers scientifically explaining the crystalline properties of piezoelectricity and how they were also valid in the human body, and then other scientists, of course, picked it up, but where do you find all the crystalline structures in the human body? Well, you find it in osseous membrane, you find it in anesthesia fluid, for example, which is full of crystal full of full of salts and minerals and crystals, which have piezoelectric properties, which means they produce electromagnetic fields, EMFs, as a result of pressure or circulation influence. So you move anything in the body with external pressure, it generates an electric charge, an electric current, and a transverse magnetic field, which then affects all the magnetic properties, including magnetic minerals in the body. Okay, and it also acts, according to my friend Dr. Jerry Tennant, as as a charging influence on the reactants, resistance, and covalence of every cell in the body that you can actually change the electrical, electrical covalence of cells with external pressure on the body. Okay, and yes, there's scientific research. Look up Dr. Jerry Tennant and Healing His Voltage as a good resource on that. All right, continuing, we have the two categories of differentiation, which help us diagnose illness. One, when the client comes to you, the first thing you want to do is you want to determine what's called the prekriti, the prekruti, property. Okay, innate constitution. What is innate constitution? Okay, I took my vehicle. I made an appointment to take my vehicle to the mechanic yesterday. Okay, the mechanic, before, as they were taking the appointment, the secretary at the shop went, okay. What is the year make a model of your vehicle? You make a model of your vehicle. I'm like, well, it's a new Pathfinder, which makes it a Nissan, and it's a turbocharged six cylinder, and it's all wheel drive, and and they wanted that before I brought my vehicle to the shop, okay. Why they wanted the, the year, make and model, because already they know the strengths and weaknesses of the vehicle. They may see my, my, you know, technically a pathfinder. In reality, it's a truck in disguise, you know. I don't know if you have, if you've seen them, you know it's really, it's a truck in disguise, but they, they already know strengths and weaknesses, they know where it tends to break, they know where the recalls have already identified problems, they already know that before I even bring it in, and then when I bring it in, first thing they do is verify that I know what kind of car I have, because you know a lot of people show up at the mechanic with their car, and the car they show up with is not what they describe to the mechanic, right?

Speaker 2  1:17:53
So mechanic literally has to do their own assessment, your make and model, prekruti in a constitution is your physiologic year make and model, and if you are living and you are healthy and well according to the properties, inclination, strengths, and weaknesses of your year, make and model, you're considered healthy, you're considered a healthy person, okay, but people are not healthy, so they come and they have issues. So now we try to say, okay, what is the nature of how they're not healthy, and how far are they not healthy? And that's called Vikriti, which is the definition construction of the current imbalance. Okay, and I put here acquired deviation from the healthy baseline, because technically, if you are in spec with your nominal, with your healthy baseline of composition, metabolically, psychologically, emotionally, and functionally, you're virtually invisible to me. I've got no business with you. You're virtually invisible, but then I look at you more closely, and I said, well, actually, you're you deviate from your projected baseline given to you by God in nature and by hereditary DNA of your family and the environment that you have grown up in and that you live in, etc. etc. and we call that acquired deviation, and to the degree that you are deviated from that nominal norm, according to your type, that's your active disease or elemental disruption, that's the what. Okay, and so this is pretty easy to, and how do we know? How do we know what these qualities are to define the difference between Prakriti and Bikriti? There are charts. The most imposing and difficult part of learning really classical Ayurveda is you got to learn list and you got to learn charts and you got to learn all the correlations of the elements and how they relate to bodily functions and bodily organs and body parts and body points and now it becomes just like acupuncture we're in school four years for acupuncture but you still don't know it you got to work in the clinic another four years before you can say you know the acupuncture, and on the high end, Ayurveda is just like that, but we can still get some really good insight, even as an entry-level practitioner, if you're so inclined, and then we have our diagnostic dashboard, ancient Ayurveda uses the pulse. In other words, you take the pulse, and it's considered quite reliable, by the way. It's called Raja Maha Nadi Vigya, the pulse of the gods, royal, the royal pulse, because you can tell so much about a person by taking the pulse, and I've talked to some of the innovators of what's called Heart Math, you're probably familiar with that, and they're all about the Pulse Man, and they tell you, they tell me, they told me that they can, they can tell an extraordinary list of differential diagnosis based on the heart pulse, and what they call the heart math. Okay, well, that's institutional Ayurveda, right there. Okay, targeted modern labs. Yeah, now we're like, even in India, you know, we have signs and symptoms. First of all, look at the tongue, look at the face, take the pulse, smell the pool, smell the urine, look at the urine. Right, yes, they have microscopes and Ayurvedic high, they have dark field microscopes and Ayurvedic hospitals in India. So, yes, they like this assessment. They take BIAs, bioamportets analysis. they do BMI, they do, you know, in Ayurvedic hospitals, like I said, not, not Luddites, Nadi Pariksha, or the pulse, okay, has we can actually discern three qualities, which helps correlate with what we see, we look at the tongue, and we also get indications of metabolic function or dysfunction by by physically looking at the tongue, and there are many tongues, but there are three primary, which are the VATA tongue, which is cracked, primarily the PITTA, which is reddish blue or inflamed, and KAPHA, which is coated with a thick, exceedingly slimy white layer. So, for example, a Candida thrush tongue, by definition, is a classical Ayurvedic tongue. Okay, classical Ayurvedic tongue. And if you've ever seen anyone in liver failure, you'll know that you've, if you've seen their tongue, it could be jet black. Okay, and you see someone with a black tongue, you know that that they are in very different, they're an organ failure, they're a metabolic failure, and they need emergency care.

Speaker 2  1:23:18
Okay, and you could tell that just by looking at the tongue, classical medicine was developed before synthetic chemicals to treat modern patients. Ancient wisdom requires a systems biology upgrade, and this is also where the TOBIN protocol comes in. But so here we are, 5000 year history, last 5000 years, you know, 1000 BC, the Athar Veda, Trava Samhita, Sushruta Samhita, and then just yesterday all of these other things were were invested into the environment, radiation, radioactive isotopes, chemicals, drugs, plastics, petroleum derivatives, pollution, chemtrails. That's yesterday, and so the modern Western medicine is actually better at addressing some of these concepts in Ayurveda. Why? Because they didn't. They never had a choice. They never had a modern Western medicine has grown up in the polluted environment, the contentious environment, and the stressful environment, more stressful, and not just because of bad behavior of humans, like wars, but I'm talking about these things: PFAS, GMOs, ultra-pasteurized food, endocrine disruptors, and hard radiation, ELF, EMF, and of course, if you get into your detox courses, the list of toxins that substances that create toxic burden in the environment right now isn't it pretty much infinite? Isn't it? I mean, we can, we can categorize, but isn't it pretty much infinite? So, how do we do that? Well, we listen to Dr. Tano, if we're smart, we listen to Dr. Tano, and we look at that TOBIN protocol, and actually, I've now introduced Tano's TOBIN protocol to the National Government of India, and I use formally in conference, and they gave me an award for talking about Dr. Tano's TOBIN. So, thank you, Dr. Tano, for gifting me with this information. It helps me with the interface, the BLE in Chinese medicine, the interface concept of bridging the old and ancient and traditional but functional medicine with the modern medicine that needs to focus, that needs to focus on things like toxicity, for example, so here we are with TOBIN. We've got T for toxicity, O for oxidative stress, B for biological agents, I for inflammation, and N for nutrition, endocrine. All these things exist in Ayurveda. Okay, but rather than spend the next four years trying to sort them out, we can take TOBIN as a filter, and we can apply it to the practices of Ayurveda, and we can kind of cut to the chase, and I'm telling you, as an Ayurvedic professor, that this is a real thing that we're really onto. We really appreciate it, and we are, we are bound on this integration train. We're committed to it now. So, we look at that removal of burdens, heavy metals, environmental waste, fuel, but also nutrition is mental. So, when we say neuro endocrine, I'm not just talking about the nerves, I'm not just talking about the nerve hormones, nor epinephrine, etc. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm also talking about the mental and emotional influence on the on the neural system. Okay, psycho neuro-immunology are just now, are just now like yesterday, getting into this again, it's our bailiwick. We have always practiced this idea of psycho-neuro-immunology, that mind and emotion and es of spirit and essence of personality from one person to another actually is a differentiating element and a differential diagnosis, and then if you can attend to that strategically and functionally, you'll get a different result in that patient than you would get from anybody else in the world, and they will, they will love you. So, Dr. Benoit Tanos integrative immunity framework, toxicity, oxidative stress, Biologicals, and bugs, infections, and inflammation, and nutrition. Okay, so we can actually sort out Ayurveda practice to enter these categories without sacrificing the integrity of the traditional system, we can also. I've also done it in Native American medicine.

Speaker 2  1:28:25
I wrote a book about this, essentially called The Original Cure, and what I'm doing in part of the book is I'm taking very detailed expression of what is traditional Native American medicine, and again I'm applying the filter of the TOBIN protocol to see where does Native American medicine deal with toxicity, oxidative stress, bugs, and animals, like in Chinese medicine, external external influences, evil, external pernicious influences, like the Chiraka Summit, no, like the Yellow Emperor's classic, or the Nanjing says, external pernicious influences, things that want to eat us, basically in the environment, but sunburn qualifies to infection and inflammation and nutrition, so yes, we are now applying this type of structure to make it easier to understand, follow, and practice Native American medicine. So, when we look at environmental toxins through a Western lens, you know the names Dr. Clearfield can model these names off faster than I can whistle Dixie, and I can whistle Dixie pretty fast in Ayurveda. It's called Ama and Garvishha. Okay, Amma and Garvishha are the unintelligent substances that confuse digestive fire, causing toxic metabolic residue to accumulate and distort the Doshas, so GMOs are unintelligent foreign substance, PFAS are unintelligent foreign substance, xenoestrogen plastic hormone disruptors are considered unintelligent foreign substances. You get me. And then we go to TOBIN B bugs microbiome, gut Dysbiosis, leaky gut, and related syndromes, and Ayurveda. It's called Graha Ni Roga, Apana Vayu. Okay, which means a functional failure of downward when Apana, Apana. There are five different kinds of Prana in the body, from the top of the head to the bottom of the feet and the extremities, a Prana, yama, Prana, samana, upana, udana, vayana. These are the different pranas in the body, the regional and they will function. So Apana is in the torso abdomen, and it rules digestion. Okay, and so this failure to completely metabolize nutrients, okay, is considered to be a deficiency in upon a Vayu and grahan e Roga. That's the form of it. And in Ayurveda we have all the treatments to stimulate uptake, nutritional uptake, and to cure metabolic insufficiency due to inefficient or deficient digestion, whether that is caused by hormones, whether that is acidosis or acidosis, or whether that's because of pathology of pro pre probiotics. Okay, and so that's where you get into probiotic foods, you get an acid balancing, mantle balancing foods, and Ayurveda, both lifestyle and nutrition, as well as external medicines. Okay, TOBIN, the O in the I, oxidative stress and inflammation, chronic hyperactive immune response, and OS cellular damage. I know a lot of docs, including Dr. Tanner, talks a lot about hyperactive immune response chronically, and Ayurveda, that's called PITTA Derangement, or Ojas depletion, a fire imbalance burns out the Ojas. Think of the oja, if metabolism is thermal and fire. Okay, Ojas are actually the metabolism that creates the thermal energy in the body, and so it does more than just one the tissue right right that that function of emf creation of electromotive force thermal output from one cell to another or one structure to another like as an example of an organ or a tissue or a bony structure. Okay, that's fire and Ayurveda. So we want to look at that endocrine disruption and cellular starvation. Endocrine disruption disrupted hormonal signaling pathways, especially ultra process found in ultra processed diets, in fact, that's predictable as rain, right. Well, and Ayurveda, we call that KAPHA stagnation. It is a Sluggishness in the sshrotas. Now, srota is another name for Prana Nadi. Okay, so when we talk about nutritional distribution of energy in the body, we say that is for path of srota. When we talk about the superficial energy of the pranic, the pranic energy moving on and below and through the structure of the skeleton. Okay, those are called Prana Nadis, or in Thai, those are called send lines or loam, okay, but they are the same. The points are called Marma. All right, all right. There we go. Alchemy integrating Tridosha and TOBIN, and I've given you some equivalencies. I am going to make this PDF available to everyone who wants it, so you can take your time and go back through these. We say the length, so I'm kind of going back toward the Osteopathy, right?

Speaker 2  1:34:29
The invisible sin govern the flow of Prana, which is vital life force, air, and energy of all the different kinds of energies, and directly impact the physical fascia and neurologic networks, and Prana is not just air and oxygen, it is an element, which is called luddho, it is matter transcending to energy and energy transforming into matter. The concept here is called transformation and transmutation, transformation is the concept of taking very high and very fine energies, like literally the solar energy of the process of chlorination, I want to call it the oxygenation of blood cells, which starts with light. Okay, that is called a process of transformation, because it originates with light. Okay, if you don't know that, then you're going to get tickled looking it up. Okay, and then we have, so we have transformation, then we have transmutation. Transmutation is taking the very subtle but very deep energies of the planet, so-called Schumann resonance frequency, which are the drumbeat of Mother Earth, and are the heartbeat of every living organism in the planet, and then extrapolating that, stepping it up through transformers and transducers, until it comes together in the heart, Anahata Chakra, and then explodes out in a circuit called the microcosmic orbit to feed and innervate every cell in the body, but it is a two-way communication system. It is a transceiving system, the system of transformation, step down the energy. Okay, to transformation step up the energy. Okay, and if you want to know, I'm using those words in the engineering, okay, electrical engineering scheme, trans, aka transformers. You start with a nuclear power plant generates a million volts. You step it down to 100,000 You carry it over big power line substation, step it down to 10,000 then distribute down all the way down to a few 1000, even to a few volts, 400 volts, 240 volts, 120 volts, nine volts, see, and that's called transformation. So it's taken very, very big, very, very important. In fact, if you touch a line coming right out of a nuclear power plant, you don't just die, you explode, like you vaporize, like you stuffed it, like you went into a bug zapper, okay. So that energy has to be transformed to non-immical to life before you can use it. And we can take a nine volt battery, put it right on our tongue, and it doesn't kill us. But transformation, so we have the both. We have also, we want to bring up the energies, which are very small from the earth. Okay, very small, and we want to increase them, want to step them up into usability. And Ayurveda, the system that does that, is called the chakra system. So, I know everybody here has heard of the chakra system. You may not understand, it's the transduction transformation system of energy in the in the human body. Okay, step one: pathology, sun line blockage. Step two: somatic expression. Every illness has a personality, say somatic expression, and I mean that just like Professor Thomas Hanna, who wrote the first book ever published on somatic therapy, and who coined the word somatic, Dr. Professor Thomas Hanna. Okay, the way that he coined it was every imbalance of structure, non-structure, mind, body, spirit, emotion, if you will. Okay, has a personality, it has an expression, and that if you can learn to read the expressions of the disorders already, you're way ahead of the curve, and you'll be able to see things before you can confirm them with a blood test, because you will recognize just that you can recognize an angry person, just like you can recognize a happy person from a desperately unhappy person across the room, and what if that angry person that you see come into your clinic who spit and fire, and they haven't - you haven't even said hello yet. They're mad because they have to do paperwork, and they're just angry, and they'll also turn out to be quite non-compliant. They'll file complaints against you, and then as they stomp out of your office into the parking lot and get in their car and scream away, squealing their tires and throwing gravel everywhere, and haul off to the road to the nearest emergency room to prove you wrong, and then they die in the emergency room of a cardiac event, and their anger, that extreme anger, was a symptom of a heart problem.

Speaker 2  1:40:02
It was a symptom of a liver problem. Okay, it was the personality, it was the somatic expression of a heart problem. Some of you know exactly what I'm talking about. I wish for everybody to get to understand a little bit here. Step three: clinical intervention, osteopathic application, and as far as I'm concerned, you're already on it. Just do more, be more confident that your osteopathic manipulations have a much greater potential for whole person, holistic mind, body, spirit positive outcomes than maybe you've been led to believe, and you believe in it. Okay, because there are actually many people who believe this. Right, step four: the resolution restored structural homeostasis, which is clearing the pathways, allowing the biological intelligence to resume normal metabolic function, and also I am presupposing a concept which is called biological intelligence. Okay, it's like the Gaia hypothesis applied to the human being. Gaia hypothesis states that the earth itself, terra firma, is a living organism, and that all the functions of the planet, from the Gulf Stream, the jet stream, hurricanes, volcanoes, earthquakes, summer, winter seasons, the expression of life on the planet. Okay, is all happening in an intelligent, intelligent system, or cosmos, which is called Gaia. Okay, now in the Gaia hypothesis, it then says that every iteration of life from the planet, okay, we're not going to go into solar system, that's another conversation, we'll do that someday over coffee, but every iteration of life, from the grand life of the planet, Mother Earth, as we say in Native American medicine, is again a reiteration of that cosmos of structured homeostasis or biological intelligence of the planet, same, same, but different. The only thing that changes is scale. So, if you can understand the one, you can understand the other, and that is a Veda concept, an ancient Vedic concept, but also an ancient Native American. It's why Native American people, we actually believe the world makes sense. So, when we look out in the world, we don't go, "Oh, it doesn't make sense. I have a clue what's going on here. Why it's warm in the summer and cold in the winter, and sometimes the year the sun rises over here, and sometimes the year the sun rises over there. It doesn't make any sense to me at all. And this whole idea, most people can't. If I were to say right now, don't look, don't think, point to the north, just point to the north right now. Just go. How many of you will be able to do that without thinking? Okay, that a native, Native American people relate to the land and relate to the earth and the ecosystem of life of the planet or Mother Earth so strongly that most Native Americans, if I said any direction, don't blink, don't think, just go point to the east, point to the west, point to the north, point to the south, they will be able to do that, they will be able to do that, and also, by the way, in Native American medicine, we say there are directional affective disorders, that's another, that's a rabbit hole, I'm not, I'm not going to go, go down there, it's a fun one, so clinical translation Western medicine is more about treating the soil over the seed, Ayurveda, or in a medicine is about bio individuality and treating the terrain that the seed is going to grow in, and that we don't worry so much about the seed, or what the seed is capable of doing, we worry more about the soil than we do about the seed. Seeds are important, we need our seeds, but it's a matter of focus and a matter of preference. What do we look at as primary? Okay, I'll give you another picture here. Biological, so I see Osteopathy as being an integrative approach, just like Ayurveda. I'm just advocating that we get a little bit together on that. Right, you teach me a little Osteopathy, and I'll teach you a little Ayurveda, and somewhere in the middle we're going to have miracles with our patients. See, that's that's for me, that's our goal is life, Ayurveda, science of life. If we're doing our medicine correctly, when we're done and the smoke clears, there will be more life than before we got involved. Okay, and I see the path to get to that place right now and in the future.

Speaker 2  1:45:30
I think we need it more now than ever. That's just me. Is this path of integration so beyond mechanical manipulation? Okay, we're talking about somatic therapeutic approach, but which also uses boy. If you guys want to see a repertoire, go to my school, Thai yoga center. I've got 500 photo galleries, I've got 1000 videos, and look at how we move the body. Look at how we bring consciousness, consciousness, breath, pressure, and awareness to the body. Okay, and you will see something that will make you happy. Okay, you'll see something that makes you happy, okay. And then, of course, it's not just pressure, right? The pressure is in crucible of what are called vinyasa and asanas, which are therapeutic postures, which are the classic yoga posture. We have 1000 classic yoga postures. We don't just do them, we facilitate them as an end to itself, and then we balance the energy in the therapeutic posture, so for example, I can pretty well prove to you that if I work your energy lines while you're in a forward bend, it will have a different effect than if you are in a backward bend, that if you are in an articulating posture and I work restrictive lines and points while you're in that, or even if I'm doing an articulation on your, your pelvis and knees on your neck, so I put you in a posture where we're adducting your knee and we're tucking your heel up towards your perineum, and then we do a neck decompression. Guess what, it's different. The facilitation will be different. The feeling on the client side will be different. You'll notice from one side to the other that there will be an enhancement of release and articulation by engaging the feet and by engaging the knees before you do the articulation, okay, so I'm just putting it out there, and maybe that'll be interesting to you, global residents of earth-based medicine, we have these shared philosophies, both recognize the four directions, the necessity of ceremony, and the reality that illness can stem from malicious energetic agencies requiring spiritual appeasement. This is a Native American concept. Okay, again, we believe unless you are holy, well, you're not well. If you are physically perfect but mentally unstable, you are not well if you are a genius mentally, but you are an emotional truck wreck. You are not well, and there will be a physical counterpart to that, which is called the somatic expression. Okay, and also in homeopathy, this is called the formation of a drug-based picture as an assessment tool. The drug-based picture, in other words, miasm. What does what is the appearance? What is the behavior? What is the tone of voice? What is the posture of the particular miasm that you're going to treat with the homeopathic approach, and you see this also in Chinese medicine, because there is actually that same type of proof profile for every Chinese major Chinese differential diagnosis. Okay, so we all share that. Let's build on that. Okay, so we got diagnostics, we got sacred space, and this idea of acknowledging the somatic elements, and then we have the implementation of botanics and nutrition, food and lifestyle, and this creates the temple of health sovereignty, the future clinic, right, the temple of wellness has all of these things simultaneously functioning in the space. Now, can you do that in a private practice? Yes, you can. Okay, again, integration is based on systems biology validation, enhanced diagnostic precision, managing 21st century Pathologies, restoring the terrain, and patient health sovereignty, and so, of course, it's I didn't say it, but to hear it one time, there is no such thing as medicine without consent, medical treatment, medical intervention. intervention without consent is something else. It's not the practice of medicine. Unbroken path to mastery. So Arjun Sintorn Chai Chi Boom, former director of the Bunda Northern Hill Tribes Medicine Hospital, and Chiang Mai, Thailand, where I rode in Chiang Mai. One of my professors for many years, he said, "Keep going, you're almost there. In the old days, there was no end to learning. Ancient Thai Rishi and Moh Nuat practiced for 30 to 40 years to gain mastery, they were not considered medical masters until they had been practicing for 30 or 40 years. Why?

Speaker 2  1:51:10
Because life experience and being successful and living your own life is a necessary principle to you being able to judge and see others clearly. Okay, and closing thought, healing is not merely a mechanical trait, it's a lifelong dedication to the alchemy of the spirit. And thank you for watching my little presentation here to I'd sing as we move beyond mechanical and we become facilitators of structural, biochemical, and energetic homeostasis. So, the end. Thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:51
Thank you, Dr. James. Does anybody have any questions? I So that was fabulous. This

Speaker 8  1:52:04
is Dutch. This is Dutch speaking.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:06
Dutch,

Speaker 8  1:52:08
I would like to thank you so much, Dr. James. This was profound, outstanding. The fact that you went into doctors, stroke, does property, Vikriti, you did. You covered everything. You went to Native American. This is a him saw medicine. This is outstanding. I am so excited that you are out there doing what you're doing for all of humanity. This is.. I just. you've just really excited me, because this is something I've been studying for over 50 years, and people just don't put it together the way you just did. I am very appreciative. Cop, Koon, Maka,

Speaker 2  1:52:57
maybe like cop, maybe like cop, but I want to say this. All kudos to Dr. Clorefield. He has contributed to make these discussions possible. I've been in a few of them, same for Dr. Gerber. Same for boy, I could tell you there's a lot of people here who generate really good conversations and really deep conversations that lead to understanding and function, like Dr. Tano, for example, or Dr. Ben, who is very integral and creating pathways to honor Native American medical traditions, or Dr. Quinn and his focus on natural medicine, and so on. So I'm not a private Idaho, right? I always say, boy, if it wasn't for the Alzheimer's, I'd be really smart, and if you could just listen to my teachers for a minute, right? I struggle, you know. I always, in the back of my head, I'm like, "Oh my god, you know, like even with the modern stuff, like, like Dr. Tano secretly, I have low self, I have TOBIN low self-esteem. Okay, and that I'm trying to integrate, and I'm trying to talk about TOBIN in a knowledgeable way, but because Dr. Tanno keeps showing up for the lectures, I'm somewhat self-conscious about it.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:25
Don't let

Speaker 9  1:54:27
that happen. You did this great presentation, Anthony. Yeah, you

Speaker 8  1:54:32
are a human. You are a human,

Speaker 2  1:54:35
right? So are we.

Benoit Tano  1:54:39
That's outstanding. I think you know it makes us all proud, because this, that's what I tell you every time. This history and everything you bring together, it would be nice to have it in a big book. All of that,

Speaker 8  1:55:00
your life is the book, your life is the book representing ahimsa to the maximum. You are showing so much about the tongues, about, and you didn't mention much about the six tastes, but satiety level, and how we find contentment. It just, thank you, thank you, thank you. This was, and I agree, you cannot do it by yourself. There is a whole family here that contributes, but what you, the way you present it, from your Jesus explanations to the Native America to the various parts throughout the world, we are one family, and we must understand that, and bring ourselves back together

Speaker 2  1:55:44
here. Speaking of books, a little self-plug here. I have a few books, some of them are currently, you know, top sellers on Amazon, and they range from traditional Thai martial arts, which has the best history of Thailand I've ever written. Our AI book, and books that I, we have co-authored with Dr. Tano, such as Decoding AI Bias and Medicine, which is a book we wrote on AI diagnostics and medicine, and the different systems of AI diagnostics. Original Cure is Native American medicine. And then we have, of course, Ayurveda books, and like was just mentioned. If you've heard of Thai massage, I wrote the first book published in English language in the world on traditional Thai medicine and Thai massage. I published that in 1983 and it's one of the reasons why the Thai government honored me with the Lifetime Achievement Awards and Friend of Thailand, and all that is because before I published that book, there was no book. There were no books, and it was from my notes from the time I lived in a Buddhist school in Thailand. And even though I'm a Christian, lifelong Christian, I lived in a Buddhist school. Why? Because that's where the teaching was, and I didn't care. Buddhist school, whatever. I don't care. When I was in India, Open University, Anton Jyussarius, world famous acupuncture school, and I'm very proud to have an MD from Anton Jyasuria in acupuncture and alternative medicine, just like Judge C, by the way. Judge Z, as an Open University graduate, also, but they were Hindus in a predominantly Hindu community, right? And they were not prejudiced against us, they didn't try to hurt us, they were sweet to us, and we were to them too. So we give credit to them where credit is due, okay. But yeah, I thank you for the compliment, but, but guess what? Just look around, look at this list, just in this call right here is a body politic, like Dr. Greska and his C 60 stuff, mind-blowing stuff, that's what I call the right use of technology, right. We're not, we're not Luddites, so we're talking about clinical stuff, we're talking about Tano's endocrine analysis kind of protocols, and we're talking about Dr. Clorefield's assessments, and we're talking about Dr. Kreska's work, and so on. Even Melvin, I love his tidbits and acupuncture, every single bit, it's a gem, right, and even I'm in my 70s, right, but I still, you know, I'm a foodie, I'm a foodie for gems of truth and healing, right, and so when someone like Dr. Nario gives us one of his little gems, I got.. I have what Swami Gal used to call the inner smile, right? Even if I'm not laughing out loud, I have that inner smile because it just makes my life better in some little way, right. So, anyway, all thanks, and I'll help. Anybody have any questions or anything? I'm easy to find, by the way.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:30
There's nothing. We don't have anything in our chat. Dr. Narrio, do you have anything online? Are you still there?

Speaker 10  1:59:42
Just want to point out that, you know, I'm glad you brought to light there's a lot more than allopathic medicine out there, and you know the allopathic is a bottom of the iceberg. You know, I mean, it's not, it's not very much, and there's so much more knowledge out there that you brought to awareness, everybody, and I appreciate that. Thank you. You're

Speaker 2  2:00:03
welcome. You're welcome. I feel the same about what you're doing.

Speaker 10  2:00:08
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:09
Well, that's that's why we're here every week. And

Speaker 11  2:00:13
hey, yeah, let me, let me run my mouth. Bill,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:16
go ahead, John,

Speaker 11  2:00:18
Doctor James, that was great, as usual, and I'm always bitching about visuals, and yet beautiful slides tonight, but what I really want to talk about is because I believe in what you're talking about, and just politically, I think we need to say what happens if you actually practice and do what's behind the principles of these healing methods, because if you're advocating for, you know, natural improvement in innate immunity, you're not allowed to talk about, and you will be quiet, and you'll get out of the way, and then Bill, between Bill and I, we got 100 years in osteopathic medicine, and in 2018 we were told to keep our mouth shut because we were talking about viruses and vaccines, but if you're doing the natural stuff that you displayed here tonight, what has really happened is that you have your charter removed, and then we start start an alternative group like this, which is great, but and I will say that my case in this matter, where in this matter is to practice what you advocated tonight to actually practice it and advocate it. I had my medical license removed for that, because it was considered get ready for this, a threat to the public, and I see Ben on there now, and Ben's helping me out with this, because we're talking about legal harm and physical harm to people, because the truth, like you talked about tonight, has been prohibited. I just wanted to say there is a legal aspect to this, and we all have to be realistic about it, or anybody who starts practicing what you're doing will be called a threat to the public, which is totally wrong, opposite, but that's what's happening, right, Ben.

Speaker 9  2:02:28
Well, that's happening. The part that Anthony and how we've done moving in the tribal side is a different, as we say, animal. It creates a protection for most MDs or DOS, even with those of us who did the normal routine for an ND. The boards try to control everything, even when you get to Doctor of Medicine, medicine alternative, which I got, Anthony got, you got, as well as the acupuncture programming from Anton, while you're there, nobody bothers you, but when you start doing stuff that works from abroad and you bring it in, or you bring all indigenous and traditional medicines, like from Ayurveda, as well as from Thai, because the world is not the microcosm of what allopathic medicine is. There's a lot more to it, but the idea is they try to squash it, and the hard, the hard part is finding ways to make sure patients and practices survive. And in my mind, the world is waking up a lot more. I wish it woke up a lot quicker, but at the end of the day, I do see a mild, that's gonna be patient-driven revolution with modern medicine, and where the boards are going, they won't be able to dictate what is or isn't anymore.

Speaker 11  2:03:56
Yeah, I did write you a letter, but I didn't send it, Ben, and

Speaker 9  2:04:01
I didn't see a letter,

Speaker 11  2:04:02
I know. Okay, but our case could be a precedent for the application to this kind of natural medicine, because there's nothing whatsoever that is bad, but they're trying to just say it's bad because they say it is, which means if you go beyond, you know, pharmaceutical medicine, if you're using herbs, let's just keep it really simple, herbs, if you're just doing that, it's enough for them to come down on you and say you're a threat to the public, but we're going to change that now. We started out with one or two people, now we got 45 people that are hardcore, you know, followers, and, and people, you know, we have a whole bunch of geniuses, honest to God, geniuses who have jumped in and joined us, and the advances that are being made are rather astounding, so, and I want to, I'll get off, but I think, as a group, we can do something, establish president, precedent, and allow the type of medicine advocated tonight to actually be used without punishment.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:17
Okay. Great. Here, here.

Speaker 2  2:05:20
I have a quick question, Dr. Clearfield. If I want to share a PDF of this presentation, do I just email that to you? Just

Bill Clearfield  2:05:30
send it to me, I'll put it on our website.

Speaker 2  2:05:33
Okay, because I have a PDF of the presentation, send it to me,

Bill Clearfield  2:05:36
we'll get it there.

Speaker 2  2:05:38
Okay. All right, good enough.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:40
Yep. Thank you for that, by the way. So, okay, everybody. Next week, Stefan Hartman on We Can Eliminate Heart Disease by a Reformed Lipid Denialist, and I have a little insight into this. I won't let the cat out of the bag on that. So, next week, Stefan, and of course, those of you been on, and I've heard him before, you know, Mom is his mother, is quite the, quite the lovely character, and quite the quite the anti-aging advocate, as someone's really to be admired. So that'll be on next week. Anybody have any, any, anything they're presenting anywhere in the world? Let us know, and we'll get the word out. If any, Doctor James, your books or articles, anything that, that you have in the, in the, you know, out in the, in the atmosphere. Please let us know, so we can help promote it. We can put it in our newsletter that we put it, you know, put out every week. So, and thank you so much for this. That was fabulous. And with that, anybody else have, have any, any, any last thoughts? Dr. James,

Speaker 2  2:07:08
last thought there, there are some students actually in this call, and I just want to celebrate you as being brave souls, and you know, grow in community and, and take it to heart. Find what makes you happy as your practice, as the basis of your practice. Find what makes you smile, finds what makes you happy, and gives you the life that you dream about. Ayurveda, science of life. There's not one way to live a life. There are many ways to live a life, and so I'm the advocate for get to it, right? No guarantee you're going to be a bearded guy, you know? Hopefully, especially for the women, there's no guarantee that you're going to be an ancient bearded guy in the future, so get to it, and, and make it work for you, and don't be afraid, be fearless. Later, we'll have to set up more legal right, because this idea of just because it works doesn't mean it's legal, and I think that could be a title for discussion,

Speaker 9  2:08:21
that could be a good round table,

Bill Clearfield  2:08:22
I think. Every pretty much everybody who's on here, at least, has been doing this for at least an hour and a half in their lifetime knows that just because it works, it's not legal, you know. Is it legal? So, you know, it's

Speaker 2  2:08:41
thanks to Dr. Burgess, because he organized the research committee and the research group, and had he not done that, I would not know you guys. So, I really appreciate, I give kudos to.. I just want to say, thank you, Dr. Burgess, for that.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:58
Okay. Thank you. Thank you all.

Speaker 8  2:09:00
I'd also like to thank Dr. Burgess. If it weren't for him, I would not be part of this group either. Thank you very much.

Speaker 11  2:09:09
I tell you what, Dutch, you and your gang are the best in the world. I don't know how much everybody on this in this group knows, but Dutch is unbelievable, and she goes way, way back with the education. She is way informed, and by the.. she is.. she is excellent friends with our good buddy Kathy O'Brien, who is the whistleblower

Speaker 4  2:09:42
for

Speaker 11  2:09:42
pedophilia and MK Ultra and torture and war and secrets, so Dutch, she's all humble and stuff, and it's hard to find, but oh, and she's also an expert in the Ayurveda, for sure, and with a really good group, so Dutch, I'm so happy to hear you talking tonight, and yeah, Anthony James is one of our biggies who just dropped in on

Speaker 4  2:10:11
us, and

Speaker 11  2:10:11
we have Dr. TOBIN, who's amazing, Greska, we have probably a long, long list, our group has been formed by some kind of natural desire to seek goodness and truth. And thank you, everybody. It's wonderful dealing with

Bill Clearfield  2:10:30
wasn't for you, I wouldn't be part of this group either.

Speaker 12  2:10:34
If it wasn't for you, we never could, or

Bill Clearfield  2:10:38
wait a minute, maybe we

Speaker 11  2:10:41
could not have possibly done this without what you did. You're a brave dude.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:46
Oh, well, yeah. Okay, whatever. Okay. And with that, the brave dude's going to say, 'Let's time to sign off. It's late back East. Alright, next week. And anybody have any comments, questions? Let me know. Have any anything you want to present, let me know. And next week we'll see Dr. Well, Dr. Hartman, he's a doctor in my mind. I know he's only a physician, he's a physician's assistant, but he's a doctor in my mind. So we'll take, take care, we'll see you soon. Okay,


Transcribed by https://otter.ai