Bill Clearfield  01:34
Here's Dr Tano. You

Bill Clearfield  01:43
are you behaving yourself? Yeah, still night. Don't hear you.

Unknown Speaker  01:52
I said always behaving.

Bill Clearfield  01:55
There you go. Okay, all right. Well, you're as good looking as i The day I saw you in Las Vegas. So,

Unknown Speaker  02:02
yeah.

Unknown Speaker  02:06
So let me ask you, growing back,

Bill Clearfield  02:08
I see that. Let me ask you this one. Well, all of these books that Doctor palassa is pumping out with, AI, are they worth the paper that they're written on?

Benoit Tano  02:20
I don't know. I haven't read any of his, so I don't know what he's doing, how he's publishing those, but everybody is doing something, so it could be good.

Bill Clearfield  02:32
I mean, you know, he, he's writing a book in three days, on, on, you know, on whatever, right? He's got a new one today, yeah,

Benoit Tano  02:41
so I'm not sure what method he's using, but we he's

Bill Clearfield  02:45
using some AI thing. Well, all the pictures are AI, and if you read it, you can tell that that's what it that's what it sounds like, at least to me. So, right? Yes, I don't know if it's, I don't know if it's worth, worth the papers written on or not. You

Benoit Tano  03:00
know, yeah, I know it's different from our method. The way I do mine is totally different. So

Bill Clearfield  03:07
I have to sweat on, sweat it out for years,

Unknown Speaker  03:10
right? Yes. And

Bill Clearfield  03:12
then finally I say, Yeah, you know, I could never get it. It could never be done, right, right?

Benoit Tano  03:19
Yeah, when you write, when you write a book by yourself, and you find an a help to do so it makes, it makes a big difference. Because I my first books, I wrote them myself. I sat down and wrote all every single word is so painful, sitting down all night long, writing, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:40
I know. I know, working on a presentation that's due Friday, I'm tearing my hair out. So,

Unknown Speaker  03:48
right? I'm doing

Bill Clearfield  03:50
hormone optimization. That's not the issue that I could do in my sleep. But the the treatment method is acupuncture. So acupuncture points, but for hormones, not like, you know, this is what you do for menopause, right? It's low testosterone. What are the acupuncture points? Low, low, you know, low, low estrogen, that, that kind of thing. So I haven't really found it anywhere,

Benoit Tano  04:16
right? I don't think we have done any acupuncture for hormone treatment. Well,

Bill Clearfield  04:25
they do now. They will,

Benoit Tano  04:27
okay, they will. Now, why are you presenting this? What was that? Why are you presenting this

Bill Clearfield  04:36
uh oh, uh American Academy of Medical acupuncture? Oh, okay, Pittsburgh at the end of the at the end of March. Okay,

Benoit Tano  04:45
that's nice. So, yeah, yeah, I would like to know more about that, because I don't know anything about acupuncture.

Bill Clearfield  04:55
Well, you know, you have to learn the language. They have their own TCM language. So, right, yeah. So you have to, you have to learn how to interpret, you know what the symptoms are in English, or whatever language you're, you're Native in and and turn that into, into the rising liver goes into fire and stuff like that.

Benoit Tano  05:18
Yeah, interesting. And all the points, the different points, we have to know,

Bill Clearfield  05:23
yeah. I mean, there's 365, main points, and then there's an infinite number of, you know, made up points. I'd probably use about 60 or 70 of them. I don't, I don't use, you know, otherwise, you, you know, you tear your hair out, yeah? Well, we've already done that. So

Benoit Tano  05:43
even remember remembering 60 of them. That's a lot, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:48
60 years. But you know, if you do it a while, it's, you know, becomes like second nature. So, right? So let me see if there speakers made it here yet. See a couple of new names I hadn't seen before. So okay, let me get, let me get Doctor Nario to be my co host, since

Benoit Tano  06:10
I invited my nurse practitioner to attend today,

Bill Clearfield  06:14
but you did something yesterday. I listened to it for a while, but then I got it. I had to, I had to bug off. So, so maybe we can get you to yeah, why don't we do that while we're sitting here waiting, let's see. When are you available? Doctor Tanno,

Speaker 1  06:32
give me a couple of weeks.

Bill Clearfield  06:36
Alright, how about March 25

Benoit Tano  06:38
Yeah, that works. March 25

Bill Clearfield  06:41
Alright. Back to 10. You got it? It's yours. Okay? Yeah, we got some oldies, but, but, but goodies coming back at Lisa Tamati coming back, and gonna get see if I get Ross Pelton back, and maybe we can get John Burgess to do something for us. So, yeah, so you're in. Dr narrowly, John's

Speaker 2  07:10
muted. John, are you talking? You're muted, muted, John,

Bill Clearfield  07:16
just kind of the way we like,

Speaker 3  07:17
I mind muted, doing better and happy to be here and do I was saying. Dr Tan, who is doing all the things I think are really important, and Dr Robert Quinn, who has been doing an incredible amount of work with our research. So we're hoping Melvin comes over and starts playing with us more, comes

Bill Clearfield  07:39
over to the dark side. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  07:45
We're spreading our wings to Arizona. That's what I'm doing.

Bill Clearfield  07:52
What's going in Arizona? What's the tip of the week for from the wellness

Speaker 2  07:59
from the university, yeah. I mean, alright. I mean some some clinical stuff that they taught us. So they're making a lot of something about lipoprotein A. So lipoprotein a, of course, is hereditary coagulation disorder, and it's, it was made known by this famous coach from The Biggest Loser, who actually passed away. And he was like, the fittest person ever. So he, I don't know he's alive, he had a heart attack, so he was helping all these obese contestants, and he had to be like, check for lipoprotein A, and he has it. So it's, it's actually present in like 20% of our population, and it's being promoted that we should check it now, because it's producing a lot of clotting, a lot of endothelial dysfunction. One thing that they mentioned here is at statin therapy, you will aggravate your lipoprotein a number when you start statin therapy on these patients. That's why it's not suggested. And the one that they want you to focus on is aspirin, at least 150 milligrams to to negate that, and also fibrates. The strongest one is aspirin. It's around 26 to 50% that it lowers it down, and then fibrates would be around 40% but on the of course, these are our, what we call prescription medicines. On our natural side of things would be niacin, and this is actually one to three grams per day that will be producing around 20 to 30% reduction of lipoprotein, Al carton, carnitine, of two grams, and then that will produce around 10% reduction and CO Q 10 of 60 milligrams twice a day. And don't be don't be frustrated about managing this number for your patients, for the reason that when you see it lower down, don't expect it to be in the normal range. Anything that would lower this number down will be helpful for the patient. And American Heart Association has now considered this as one of the more compounding factors of cardiovascular disease, meaning you definitely don't want to have this. If you have high HSC or P, if you have high hemoglobin A, 1c high insulin, or all the metabolic parameters that we're keeping an eye out for, it can be aggravated by high lipoprotein A, so that's from the university. So do

Benoit Tano  10:27
they talk about the April B? Also,

Speaker 2  10:31
yes, that's now the newest it's even trumping the NMR lipoprotein profile test as being part of the most important lipid testing, or cardiovascular testing parameter now, so LDL, they're kind of squashing that, that the the regular cholesterol panel, they're saying that's nothing anymore. Particle numbers, second number one people, April B would be the one that you need to test, right? The

Benoit Tano  10:59
vet, the best tell you. I mean, the vet tell the niacin, which form do they use? Is it a non flush or flush, or which one think is better? So

Speaker 2  11:10
they're always saying that you need that flush. The sustained release are only kind of like they say for the wimps. So I take the nun, I take the sustains. I'm the wimp, probably, but they want you to have that flush to actually have that cardiovascular benefit.

Bill Clearfield  11:28
Is that same as LP, PLA, or is that different?

Speaker 2  11:32
LP, and then it's in like, what's this? A parenthesis, what is that? And then, small a, yeah. LP, small A,

Bill Clearfield  11:42
P, P, L, h2, is that it No,

Speaker 4  11:46
no, LPA, this lipidology stuff is a quagfire, and I tried to go into it, and I've tried to understand this stuff. And every time I think I understand it, I learned I rigor. I don't understand it at all because I have a case in front of me that makes no sense. You know that I I've been looking at LPA and a lot of people for a long time, and I think it's a pretty decent one. But did you know that it is actually modifiable with Repatha? So that's that injectable immunomodulator. So even though it's a genetic marker, if you can modulate it, are you changing your genetics, or what are you what are you changing there with Repatha there? Whoa,

Speaker 2  12:24
that's pretty good, PCS canine inhibitor, basically. So it's something that's doing. It's part of the liver transporter. So that's why it's something that they have see. It's not really made to liver lipoprotein a and when you use your path, it's an indirect effect of Repatha. But Repatha was made to lower down, really your bad cholesterols. But they're saying that it's affecting that that April part of that lipoprotein a particle, because it's a hybrid. The lipoprotein a particle is a hybrid of your April B it has an April B particle to that and attaches a mutant lipoprotein particle, so it's, it's not made for that there, though, on the on the horizon, they are now making a pharmaceutical drug just to lower down lipoprotein a it doesn't have a name yet. It only has a number for research, but they're saying it's going to be one of the, of course, money making, yeah, pharmaceuticals that will be coming out

Benoit Tano  13:21
that is genetic, right? The

Speaker 2  13:25
genetic, it's 90% here hereditary. That's why, if you find it, you definitely want to ask the family members to do testing, because it's definitely going to be there. It's one of them who gave it to that person, right? Right?

Speaker 4  13:42
Okay, we've been using the calcium score to to monitor these people we think are at high risk too. And sometimes we get pretty surprising results where someone who has an April B of 200 I had this the other day at age 64 has a CACs negative like a zero score. And then we see this time and time again. You know, someone who's good diet lean so they have these lean mass hyper responders. They have super high lipids. Then you run the CACs, and it's negative, and that's pretty reassuring. It's not perfect, I guess the you know, I've talked to some cardiologists. I played tennis with this one interventional vascular surgeon. I said, was the CSCs good? Or should we do it? Mean contrast studies, angiograms. He says, Now the CSCs is good, but then you listen to other cardiologists, they're like, Oh, the CSCs is no good. You need to do the contrast study to actually see so that the jury is still out on that still,

Unknown Speaker  14:40
what's so CSCS, coronary

Unknown Speaker  14:42
artery calcium score, oh, okay,

Speaker 2  14:45
I see, okay, Coronavirus calcium score, yeah, that's right.

Bill Clearfield  14:50
Okay. All right, everybody, well, our speaker is with us. So let us. Let us begin. Allison Beardsley, front and center. So, so Allison is quite, quite an entrepreneur, really. She's run. I'm going to let her introduce herself. Okay, tell us all about that. Your Pilates career and went on before that, and now you're opening red light therapies opening next week, from what I understand, correct.

Speaker 5  15:29
So I've been in the boutique fitness industry about 25 years since before it really existed, and I founded a brand called Club Pilates club. I sold that back about 10 years ago, but there's about 1200 locations in the US, and it's all throughout the country. So and we just started a new brand called Red Light method, where we combine medical grade red light therapy, body contouring treatments with power plate and pilates and far infrared sauna. And it's doing awesome. We have 51 locations in development. We have one opening near Dr Clearfield, up in the Reno area and and a few other prototypes open throughout the country. But it's just really exciting. So it's awesome to be here with you guys. So yeah,

Bill Clearfield  16:14
okay, so we're happy to have you with us. We do talk a lot about light therapy here, so we're hoping that you'll, you know, give us sort of the the the the basics and the the down and dirty and what to expect. If Dr Halas is is on, he'll be talking about using methylene blue and filtering it through light and shooting it up your nose and stuff like, Oh, yes, awesome. Yeah,

Speaker 5  16:41
we I've been using methylene blue personally, and we're working on right now. One of my business partners is a chemist, and he's been making up a solution and everything. So we're going to brand it for our franchise owners and distribute it as a product to sell within our studios. But our prototype started in Bentonville, Arkansas about two and a half years ago, and we're a membership based model, so we have 450 members, but we've seen amazing results with we've had a person with macular degeneration have their eyesight completely restored. We've had about 30 members who are on disability from different auto immune conditions completely come off of disability diabetic neuropathy is is healed essentially, as long as they keep doing it, because it is one of those healthy practices we have to do. But it's just been really beautiful being in the fitness industry for so many years, we didn't used to see, 25 years ago, 80% of our population being diagnosed with all these cellular and metabolic dysfunctions like 80% of the population is currently overweight or obese, and so it's been really beautiful, almost like a ministry, to combine the boutique fitness world and an affordable monthly membership model with the medical grade red light therapy treatments. But we've seen America amazing miracles energy, and we've been loving the methylene blue that's been really fun. I'm sure you guys are know a lot more about that than I do. I just know that half of my staff take it, and everyone notices really great results from enhanced mood to increased energy to better cellular function and more mental clarity, so, and that's in those nootropic doses. So what? What's

Bill Clearfield  18:24
the you know, how are they taking it? Is it a liquid? Is it a pill? Yeah,

Speaker 5  18:28
so some people do the buccal trochis from transcriptions. That's one way. So it absorbs through the cheek tissue, it bypasses your digestive system. And many other people use the different pharmaceutical grade drops and water. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  18:44
so let me, let me do a just a little disclaimer before you begin. Allison, you're not a physician, right? And you're not a nurse practitioner, physician's assistant, any of those things, right? No, no,

Speaker 5  19:00
I'm not medical. My undergrad is kinesiology, and then my master's degrees are theologically based. So you

Bill Clearfield  19:07
escape the tyranny of the medical, medical, you know, medical tyrannical complex, yeah, for those of you who are new here that we never use terms like cure or or, you know, or 100% anything correct. So that's we leave that for. You know, the folks who are fortunate to to stay outside of the medical dynamic, which is, you know, almost none of none of us here. So, so just, so just, if you get any a little bit of pushback, or you that that's the, that's the issue there. So tell us a little bit about your background, and you know how all this came about. And I know, I think they'd be interested how you got started with Pilates and then, and then, of course, the red light therapy.

Speaker 5  20:04
Yeah, so I always dreamed I'd be in the WNBA, and a week before signing a scholarship with Northern Arizona University back in the 90s, I blew out my ACL and thankfully, the WNBA wasn't in my my future. And so then I stumbled upon Pilates and having a partially torn rotator cuff, and I had drop foot in my back and my ACL and I'm like missing ligaments, like my telefibular ligament, just because I beast mode on the court. So after that, I found my way into reformer Pilates, and back in the olden days, only Oprah and Madonna did Pilates. It was so expensive, it wasn't available and accessible. And being a six foot tall female without a dancer background, I struggled in Pilates. I was not good at it at all. I was the worst one in class, but I loved it, and I felt so good after and then, from my standpoint, that's when the concept of club Pilates was birthed in San Diego in December of oh seven, and we grew exponentially. And it all helped with the downed economy in oh eight, because we do, like a Henry Ford sort of business model, where we make things affordable and accessible. Club Pilates grew in a downed economy and then just organically became began franchising in 2013 from 2013 to 2015 I sold 120 franchise territories. We had 40 open and 80 in development. At the time, I sold the majority share of the company. And today, club Pilates is a $9 billion company. It's rocking it. It's just doing amazing for people. The average club sees four to 500 members, and it's really transformed. I think a lot of people today need a more low intensity kind of exercise and movement we see like the adrenal fatigue. And when we look at people from 2000 years ago, we don't see them doing high intensity training. They were walking and doing sustained work. So I I think that Pilates works more with the physiology of the body. Fast forward to 2021 I was pretty much retired for seven years before starting red light method. When I started red light method, I was doing coaching, helping people Franchise Business Consulting, and that is when I first started using the body wrap devices for red light therapy, I had, like a kind of long COVID, in the sense that I was just, like months of just not getting my energy back, lots of fatigue and just not feeling great at all. I don't know what I had. I think it was something like that, but it was weird for me. Two weeks within the using the red light body wraps, I got my energy back and felt like I was in my 20s again. And so much to the point where I'm like, I'm starting another franchise company, which I never thought I was going to do, because I was happy in retirement. But yeah, so started a new franchise company, and it's just been beautiful what we see. And so red light method, like our members, can come for 199 a month unlimited sessions, and that includes a 25 minute we use a medical grade, FDA cleared device. It's FDA cleared for inches loss and body contouring and reduce pain and inflammation and increase blood flow and circulation. So it is a class two medical device. Normally, these treatments are 200 bucks a pop. And so we're just making it affordable and accessible for school teachers, military people, to come 30 times a month. And we combine that with power plate, which is the whole body vibration technology, which is amazing for moving the lymph system and activating muscles. And we also combine it with Pilates and stuff. So we're kind of the first ever hybrid Spa Boutique fitness concept, which I believe is the trend in fitness. I have lots of insider information on the boutique fitness world, but I know high intensity concepts like orange theory have been reduced almost 50% since the pandemic, and Pilates is projected to triple in the next decade because of its low intensity, gentle for the body. So we're really excited at Red Light method, just with everything going on, and just seeing the miracles like never in my life did I think I'd have a business where someone with macular degeneration is having their eyesight restored. And just all the things we've seen, we've seen heart arrhythmias go away. People with arthritis pain have no more pain or no more arthritis, and neck shoulders all over the place. And it's, I think we're just light starved as a society, like in the olden days, you get the red near infrared light with the rising sun, and we're just not getting that with our blackout curtains and comfortable beds and air conditioning. So it's one of the banes of modern living and that. And I think like grounding is another thing that people are missing out on. But I think the wave of fitness in the future is going to be kind of a hybrid of low intensity fitness with biohacking, so to say. So,

Bill Clearfield  24:58
okay, so give us some of the can you give us some of the principles of red light therapy? Okay, say, Well, you need red light therapy. Why you

Speaker 5  25:11
need red light Yeah, it does. So the the mitochondrial health and the cellular function is the biggest thing. There's tons of studies on PubMed and NIH showing how it helps our cellular function and metabolic function, mitochondria especially. And same thing with the methylene blue, those have just both been shown to be mitochondrial superstars. And we know our melatonin is made in the mitochondria, so some of the things our members first kind of report to us as they have increased energy, and they sleep better, and stuff like that. So I think that just our society red light therapy, we need light. Life needs light. So the it's also known as photo bio modulation, which might be more the language you all speak, but yeah, the photo bio modulation, like when you just break down those words, it's the life giving light of and we need that in the world. We spend so much time indoors, under LEDs and fluorescence and blue light, so the red light's really needed right now, and we're we just see so many blessings with people with it. But yeah, hopefully that answers. Dr Clearfield, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  26:21
I only use photobiomodulation if I want to impress my mother that she got

Unknown Speaker  26:28
awesome.

Bill Clearfield  26:31
Okay, what so? Okay, so, my neck hurts, my back hurts. I'm 71 years old. My fingers hurt. Everything hurts. And, you know, I went, I went to Dr Burgess, and he did a homeo puncture, and that helped a little bit. But, you know, that's not very just, you know, it's not a, it's not a, you know, something that I can keep going because he lives in West Virginia, and I don't and then I went to Dr halasa, and he loaded up nano particles with cyclodextrin and and progesterone and methylene blue and and told me to shoot it in my nose. But it doesn't stay there. So that didn't work. So somebody suggests red light therapy. So what can I expect? Yeah,

Speaker 5  27:22
so, and for us, our members, go in, they do a 25 minute treatment. We wrap their body directly. We ask them to not have sunscreen or lotions on, and they're in a private treatment room under a massage sheet, and what they'll notice is that the lights are warm. They're 86 degrees, they're not hot, and it's very relaxing. And then afterwards we move people to the vibration plate, because the clinical trials done to prove the efficacy of the device we use is done 25 minutes of lights, 10 minutes of whole body vibration, which helps to flush the length. But we've measured two to 12 inches lost for body contouring in one section. Yeah. So you the first things people notice are they feel happy. We have a lot of people who come who battle depression, so they feel much happier. They feel more energized. They it's like a rested energy. It's like not a zingy energy or anything like that. It's definitely more of an energetic field, but with sustained use. I mean, we have hundreds of clients who have report no more pain, which is why they keep coming back. We have lots of people with the fibromyalgia and different autoimmune conditions who we see a ton of benefit with.

Bill Clearfield  28:37
Mm, hmm. Okay, so, so I get up at 530 in the morning, and then I write, and I go to the office at eight, and I'm running this seminar, and I won't be done till which will be over maybe by seven, and then by the time I do everything I need to do, it'll be eight o'clock. How am I going to am I going to get to red light therapy? Where does that fit in our day here? Yeah,

Speaker 5  29:02
I think you might have a longer day than the average person being a doctor and a business owner, because I know just as a business owner, there's a lot of labor laws with how long we can work people. So I think you might be in a different category than general people who work full time, but we're generally open 6am to 7:30pm most days. And so we have a we see about 150 members a day, and people get in. Our appointments are offered every 15 minutes. So we have just a really flexible plan in that sort of way. But we've seen beautiful miracles with people with it,

Bill Clearfield  29:38
right? Why red light? Not? Why not blue light?

Speaker 5  29:41
I think blue light's better for acne and pimples and that kind of stuff. And we're exposed to so much blue light right now, so I know the red and the near infrared light. There's been over 5000 studies. I know Dr Hamblin has been a huge pioneer in this with his research so and it's been used in dermatology and esthetics, as you know, for fine lines and wrinkles and all that good stuff. So helps collagen. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  30:11
so you mentioned mitochondrial function, right? Okay, can you overstimulate the mitochondria?

Speaker 5  30:20
Well, I'm not aware of that. I'm not a doctor, but it sounds like Steve said that you can overstimulate your mitochondria. So I would love to learn from Steve if he if he wants to embellish on that,

Bill Clearfield  30:36
chime in Steve and what? What about the wavelengths that you use? Yeah, so we

Speaker 5  30:46
use the mid six hundreds and the mid eight hundreds. So 635 in particular has been shown for body contouring. 660 has been shown to do to kill breast cancer cells in vitro, which is pretty cool, and then the eight hundreds really helps to reduce the pain and inflammation, and that's the near infrared wavelength, and that's not visible to the naked eye. So I've read some studies that they can't truly differentiate between 635 and 660 I don't know. They just generalize it as mid six hundreds and the different wavelengths, but 635 our particular device we use is a 635 and an 880 Oh, hey, there's Dr Gerber. I know. Dr Gerber, you've been, yeah, I used to go to you. Dr Gerber, years ago when I lived in Reno, and then we moved away, and we just moved back. So hey, awesome.

Bill Clearfield  31:43
Okay, any, any other studies that show red light therapy can stimulate cancer cell growth,

Speaker 5  31:52
not that I'm aware of. I've not read any studies of it showing that I've showed it like I have seen the studies, though, of it killing breast cancer cells in vitro, and it also reduces blood sugar levels by 28% that's another study that is out there that you can verify the red light therapy does reduce blood sugar significantly. I actually test my blood sugar every morning, and one morning I had a day the day before, where I was a little piggly, and the next morning I was like, a 115 and I was like, Oh, my blood sugar, like, and so I fasted all day. I was lifting weights, and, like, at 6pm my blood sugar was still, like, 110 and I did my red lights, and it went down to 88 after the treatment. So I've verified that data. And we do have some people with continue continuous glucose monitors who do have diabetes, who, during the treatment, their monitor will alert them of their low blood sugar, and so they'll eat a dub chocolate. I'm not sure what doctors say to do with that, but I know, like my parents, prevent diabetes from eating a ketogenic diet. So

Speaker 2  33:00
just to, just to add some benefits from you and our so we studied this in Arizona, red light therapy. And the the ones that are really consistent with literature in terms of the benefits would be a lot of MSK problems, joint pains, the osteoarthritis, low back pain, neck pain, fibromyalgia, are a in relation to hair loss. That's probably one of the the men who definitely wants to regrow hair. There are also studies for that. So you use those localized, I guess, red light therapy on on the head. And I think you're using a machine that is defined as a near infrared if you're saying, it's like, is it in the middle of a 700 to 1400 is that what you said?

Speaker 5  33:42
No, ours is 635, and 880, and I can show you, yeah, it

Speaker 2  33:47
falls in the near infrared. So that's actually, that's a good machine because it penetrates the deeper, I guess, levels of the tissues, because there are three kinds, I think, near mid and far right. So what you have is a near infrared, which is one of the more important ones, yeah,

Speaker 5  34:07
and it does. I know a lot of the near infrared wavelengths are not visible to the naked eye, and then the red light. So ours has both. You can see the diodes where we have both the red and the near infrared, and we also have the far infrared as far as Asana goes as well. So

Speaker 2  34:25
yeah, just to kind of supplement the question A while ago, like, what is the what is the function of red light therapy in terms of the mitochondria? So it actually stimulates the cytochrome c oxidase that is in the electron transport chain to produce more ATP for the mitochondria. So that's that's kind of like the reason why they have wave plans. You cannot achieve stimulation of the cytochrome c oxidase if you're not getting into these wave forms. So the wave form is very important in relation to it working for increasing mitochondrial health. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  34:56
thank you. You answered that really. Well,

Speaker 2  35:00
oh, I'm cheating, because we studied that lately. So okay, are you at the University of Arizona? Yes, and the fellowship there. So, okay, awesome. I

Unknown Speaker  35:09
used to live in Tucson, so

Bill Clearfield  35:12
he sent him to alternative medicine school, so the rest of us don't have, don't have to do it, because he said,

Speaker 2  35:18
and he's a correspondent, integrative medicine corresponded to different places.

Bill Clearfield  35:24
Okay, have you treated any women with endometriosis? Um,

Speaker 5  35:28
you know, we've had people in their mid 50s actually get their period back like they had stopped their period and got their period back. Not sure. Um, what's going on with that? But I would think it's like a Aging Backwards kind of thing. Um, so it's, it's amazing. I'm, I'm 45 like, my personal testimony with it is, like my skin, like, I'm all natural. I don't do any kind of Botox. I mean, I literally just use water and a washcloth on my face. But my skin is better now at 45 than it was 10 years ago at 35 and I do the red light almost every day, and it's, it's amazing. I sleep like a baby through the night, and boom. Shakalaka, oh, for the fibroids. I just saw this on there in endometrial cancer. We have seen so many people. We had one lady get pregnant who was having a really hard time getting pregnant. So I don't know if the red light helped her get pregnant, because it reduces the inflammation so much, but I know for myself, when I keep up on it, I'm 15 to 20 pounds lighter than if I don't do it. So I don't know if that's inflammation or what that is, but it's really interesting that my weight, I am tall, so I'm not five feet tall. I'm six feet tall, but it's amazing that I can fluctuate that much just from keeping up on the red light therapy bodies, contouring treatments.

Bill Clearfield  36:49
Is there any contraindication with someone who's has autoimmune type issues?

Speaker 5  36:55
No, no. Actually, like I've said, we have about 20 to 30 members in Bentonville, Arkansas who were one gal in particular, who I'm who's coming to mind as she had lupus and was on disability and unable to work, and now she's high functioning again. She was a very successful, like, upper 20s young lady, like, did really great. She'd worked in marketing and all kinds of like she she was a very successful business person until the lupus took her out, and she's back to working and amazing. And we have tons of stories like that. We have a lot of people who come into us and they're limping in because they're in pain and they're 100 pounds overweight. And in our two and a half years, we probably have about 50 members at our prototype who are down 100 pounds, and people post car accidents and stuff. So I always tell people, it's not a magic bullet, but it's a rocket turbo booster charger for if you already are doing everything right, it accelerates your results. So if you're already trying to healthy and do the things and get your steps in and live a healthy life, then the red light therapy really accelerates those results. I don't know

Speaker 2  37:59
if you're applying this in in your your business, the one thing that we have found that red light therapy, the only contraindication for this, or even being conscious about cautious about it, is exposure to the eyes, especially the retina. And there were noted retinal detachments in patients who were exposed too much to red light therapy. But the contradictory part of that would be, it's actually one of the beneficial treatments, also for childhood myopia. This is the nearsightedness of children visual problems. So again, it's a very safe therapy, as literature had mentioned, but it's just that they want to caution you with exposures directly to the eye. So do you guys put like glasses on on your clients?

Speaker 5  38:43
Yeah, we have these, like Terminator glasses that we have as optional. We actually have a neurosurgeon who's a member at our Bentonville location, and he tells all the staff, stare at it. It's so good for healing your brain. It's so good for your eyes. And I have a whole book about healing traumatic brain injury, and there's a, there's a chapter in there all about red light therapy, healing the brain from traumatic brain injury. So I, I don't use eye protection, and two of my staff have had their vision improved as well. So like, there they went in for their annual and their vision is actually better than it was the year before, which is kind of odd for women in their mid 40s to have their vision improving is interesting. I don't know if that's typical or not, but,

Speaker 2  39:29
well, it's also, again, the weird part about this, they're recommending it for macro degeneration cataracts, but still putting a caution on that. Hey, watch out for your eyes. So again, it's probably, it's up to you. Yeah, that's

Speaker 5  39:44
what we we ultimately allow our members to decide, but we do have goggles for them and glasses for them, for their eye protection. So

Bill Clearfield  39:53
like, look at looking at an eclipse. You know, he's only supposed to get a glimpse of a glimpse of it. You're not supposed to look directly at it, right? You're going to go blind there,

Unknown Speaker  40:01
and you know you're going to look at it. You

Bill Clearfield  40:03
know they're going to look

Speaker 3  40:06
Hey, may I ask? Your favorite protocols with red light and pancreatitis? Your best advice in the treatment for that. You know,

Speaker 5  40:24
I probably not qualified to answer that. I I just, I do know that we've just had so many people have improved health so we I don't think I can answer that. I'm sorry

Speaker 3  40:37
I'm doing it. I just don't know what, what anybody has found out yet?

Bill Clearfield  40:41
Yeah, research project. Dr Burgess, that's right, that's part of it. Your that's your assignment. Now it is, yep, that's what you get. And

Speaker 3  40:54
we have a surprise assignment for you, because I've gone like, four to five months without vitamins, minerals, supplements, hormones, anything, and I'm still alive, and now we're going to see what happens when you start to piece me back together.

Bill Clearfield  41:09
Okay, well, you right? Well, we now we have, yeah, now we have to make you whole again.

Unknown Speaker  41:14
So that's right,

Bill Clearfield  41:19
this might not be a question you can't answer either. Is the is the treatment help for small vessel disease, brain disease?

Speaker 5  41:27
I don't, yeah, I'm not sure if I can answer that, but I know that there are tons of studies with traumatic brain injury, with red light therapy being really beneficial,

Bill Clearfield  41:33
like the beginning onsets, maybe of cognitive decline or dementia, those, kinds of things. In my research, I

Speaker 5  41:43
have read that methylene blue does help with that and red light therapy. I'm not sure if it's the cellular health, but I have heard that methylene blue also helps with that cognitive decline. Yeah.

Speaker 2  41:55
So in terms of evidence, there is so there are preliminary evidence suggesting that red light therapy can't improve cognitive function in people with dementia, so the only issue here is catching them in specific stages. So that's why early therapy and early signs of dementia will be your best bet, and also, of course, healthy people in terms of prevention. So but if you're in latter stage, and that's kind of like a hard call, but studies have mentioned that should be early.

Speaker 5  42:28
Yeah, I know, I know a lot of natural like cancer, places where people go to heal. They do like the vitamin IVs and the hyperbaric and they do include red light and whole body vibration, and a lot of those programs as well, when people go off to to do it the natural way, before they do the chemo. But I think that what I've read is, once it's too far gone, it's like the benefit isn't quite there as much so, so

Bill Clearfield  42:53
So is the the red light therapy sort of a one size fits all? Or do you have certain protocols for I have macular degeneration, I have hair loss, I have whatever, whatever it is, is

Speaker 5  43:07
there. Yeah, so our emphasis at Red Light method is, we're boutique fitness that offers this medical grade red light body contouring. So we don't, we do go one size fits all, because we do major volume. So I would say that a lot of chiropractors and natural paths do use the same equipment we use our the system we use is a $40,000 red light system. It's one of the few FDA cleared ones. But since we're our whole approach is reaching the masses. We do 25 minutes of lights. We wrap different areas based on pain or desired goals and outcomes. We do 25 minutes of lights, 15 minutes of whole body vibration power plate and 15 minutes of guided pilates reformer sessions. So that's how that's our protocol. So people can be in and out in an hour. They get low intensity fitness. They get their near infrared light, red near infrared. Most people aren't coming seven days a week. I would say our average client comes three times a week. Some people come twice. Some come once. But with all of it, we see huge improvements and people from their first session, like we will sometimes measure people before and after, if their goal is inches loss and body contouring, and the most we've measured in one session is 12 inches lost. And we use this daiku 3d body scan to help with that, but we have seen 12 inches lost in one session.

Benoit Tano  44:28
Can you do any post surgical pain treatments, people who have had surgery and spine surgeries and they still have chronic pain? Does that help? Yes.

Speaker 5  44:42
Oh, so much. So what we will do with a lot of our pain, people is, like, we we have six full, like, big body pads. They're like, 36 inches. They're wide. We lay one down. They lay their spine on that and their skin is touching directly. So they're undressed, they're under a sheet. And then we can wrap different joints, like shoulders, ankles, hips, knees, but reduced pain as many of our member testimonials, we had a gentleman. He's in his mid 60s. He's at our Bentonville location, and he had arthritis so bad that he couldn't lift his arms up, and he now has full range of motion in his arms, and he also had a heart arrhythmia, and his heart arrhythmia is completely gone. Him and his wife are actually looking to open franchises now. She also had osteopenia, and her bone density is completely reversed. And there is a very popular franchise called osteo strong, who Tony Robbins is part owner of, but their protocol is red light therapy because it's shown to improve bone density as well as whole body vibration. And vibration plates are used in many clinics and physical therapy. They use it both the NFL, so I guess the Philadelphia Eagles use the power plate. So that was a big boasting thing, but they also use the power plate and vibration therapy and physical therapists, offices and everything. It's been proven to increase bone density along with red light therapy.

Benoit Tano  46:08
What should one look for when visiting with any clubs or any place that has been light therapies? Yeah,

Speaker 5  46:17
it's it's tricky, because so many of the devices on the market are scams. So there's some of them in like Planet Fitness that people can get, and a lot of the red lights aren't even red lights. So I would be cautious of getting red lights on Amazon or in like a big box gym where they're just using kind of a commercialized product. I think it's important to have an FDA clearance, because with the FDA clearance, they've had to go through a battery of studies to prove their efficacy, and 90% of the devices on the market are not even FDA registered, and they're let alone FDA cleared. And I'm sure you guys know FDA approval is for a medicine or a drug, and FDA clearance is for a device, and then there's different classes of device, from one, two and three. So I do think it's important for people to know that they're using an actual, real device with these real results.

Speaker 2  47:14
One thing about that also is when they mentioned about red light, really when you want to go for infrared, infrared light, we should this. Should these types of lights are not actually visible to the naked eye, so when you have red light, that's a totally different spectrum. But when we're talking about FAR, mid and near, these are lights that usually are not going to be red. So that's also one thing that you're going to be looking at, yeah, but they do mix it with red sometimes. So

Speaker 5  47:48
our panels, I don't know if you could tell, but this is one of our body panels. It's a flexible panel, but it is red because that's the 635 but in between those, it's kind of hard to see. It's a 880, and so those ones don't illuminate, but the red light does have a visible red spectrum, but the near infrared and far do not have anything visible to the naked eye. So it's definitely yeah for sure, though.

Speaker 2  48:13
So what do you require for your clients? Should they be in their birthday suit or their Speedos? What is the recommendation do you have? Yeah, we, we're gonna kick people out suddenly. They just go in there naked. Like, well, yeah, we're out already.

Speaker 5  48:31
Yeah, we have waivers and everything, and all of our like, we have the standard, like, just with anything in the boutique fitness world or wellness world, you have to have your doctors, okay and but yeah, when people come in, they get walked into a private treatment room, and the treatment room we we suggest that they undress down to their knickers. You'll be surprised at like 80% of the population doesn't even wear underwear anymore. I was really surprised by that. I guess I'm old school, but a lot of people don't wear it. They're under a sheet, and then we wrap their body directly based on their goals. So like a lot of women, they want their thighs wrapped. They want their upper arms, their abdomen wrapped. And then with men, we find that they want like their shoulders and their pecs, but they're not like trying to wrap their thighs usually. So we do different wrapping based on their needs, like with my diabetic neuropathy members, we wrap their feet and they with two to three times a week, they completely have no more diabetic neuropathy symptoms, which is really cool. Did

Speaker 2  49:30
you say you wanted a doctor's permission, like a note if they're going to come in? Is that what you said? That's part

Speaker 5  49:36
of our waiver. Just like anytime, it's just standard language of anytime someone starts a new fitness routine, they're supposed to have permission. We don't ask for a note. That's up to them. Since we're not medical we're more in the wellness and fitness arena. We just happen to be using a class two medical device as part of our protocol. So

Benoit Tano  49:57
what is your average therapy length to see optimal result.

Unknown Speaker  50:03
Our average, like client, was that the question No,

Benoit Tano  50:05
no therapy length, how long they have to Yeah,

Speaker 5  50:10
um, so it, I guess it depends. We within about two months, most people have no more pain, so their arthritis pain is completely gone within about maybe 2025, visits, and then the the major weight loss. So much of that depends on what people eat. But most of our people are coming to us like struggling and in pain, but we see huge things, like one of our members, Emily, she was in a really bad car accident. She gained 60 pounds. She was in horrible pain. She has her life back. Like she's one of our poster child. She's lost like 65 pounds, 58 inches. And then we know this because our psyche body scan gives the whole does 1000s of measurements on the body. It's a really cool piece of equipment. But Emily, she is one of our poster, poster people. She's got her life back. She's a mid 40s mom, and she terrible car accident, couldn't do anything, and horrific pain, and the weight just came on. And she looks fantastic, and she feels great too. And I would say, for the weight loss, we've seen people lose over 100 pounds and a year to 18 months where they struggled before and they couldn't because of pain and different problems within their bodies. So they don't

Benoit Tano  51:28
have to do any diary modification, modifications at all. They just do this and then they lose the weight. Or how do you

Speaker 5  51:38
we always tell people that it really matters what you put in your pie hole. So we don't want people putting the the bad stuff in the pie hole. So what we'll see is that as long as they're they're making the effort, and that's why I tell people you you have to eat healthier. Like I've been in fitness industry 25 years, and so I'm constantly like, improving what I'm eating and my health and aware of it and making better decisions. So I think we're either trending upward of always getting better, or we're trending downward and getting worse. But we're never flat lining while we're alive, so we're either improving or declining. So we explain that to them, and then explain to them that it's not a magic bullet, that it's a rocket turbo charger, booster for if you're doing already, trying to live a healthy lifestyle, but even if they're not changing their diet, and they're not going in for like, body contouring, because we have lots of people who don't need the body contouring, but they're just going in for general wellness, for the energy, for improved sleep and improved cellular function, and, yeah, it really, it really helps those areas a lot. So seems like everyone's super metabolically sick. Like, when I was a kid growing up in the 80s, everyone wasn't like, it is now. It's a whole different world out now. And it's like my parents, like they're they don't remember this. Like, I see pictures of them at the beach, and they were born in 1950 both of my parents, and they're like, I didn't see a single fat person, and today it's 80% of the population. And so I think there's something going on in the world. And all I know is that whatever we're doing at Red Light methods really helping people to be able to get active again and feel good again. So they're not because the high intensity stuff, when you're already got 80 pounds or 50 pounds, and then you start jumping around high intensity, you're gonna get stressed tears, you're gonna get adrenal fatigue and spiker cortisol levels. And like, like I said earlier, like 2000 years ago, people weren't jumping around doing high intensity. So I think the fitness industry is catching on that we're we need to do more. Kind of low intensity is what most people need in order to really get results and benefits. But you guys can probably answer more, more better about what's going on with everybody in the world today. Like, Why is everyone so overweight and so sick and like, no energy? Like, what? What's going on with that? Like, yeah,

Benoit Tano  53:59
what is the training length that your personnel has to have to be able to operate these lights? Yeah, so

Speaker 5  54:08
there's, there's actually, it's a very brief training on just teaching people how to how to wrap and unwrap. But that's it. There's no special training. It's not lasers. So I know, like my dentist friend, she cuts people's teeth with a red light laser. So it's not that these are red light LEDs, so they're safe and they're low intensity. They're actually a lot less intense than, like, the 3d box panels that people could buy because the Law of Photonics, we have the light. It's wrapped directly on the skin, so we're not losing that light energy that you would lose in like a box that's going to emit it so much stronger. So it's not coming in as strong. So there's not a lot of training with how to use it, thankfully, since it is a class two device, it's not like no special training required.

Bill Clearfield  54:58
Is it possible to get a burden from it?

Speaker 5  55:01
No, not with these ones. So I did use a non FDA cleared one once, and you could change the temperature, and it did leave red marks on my skin once, and this, that's not the device we use. I did tons of research and hired FDA lawyers, and so I was like, I'm not going to mess around with building a franchise with 1000 locations in the United States and then not use the FDA cleared and set myself up for a class action lawsuit. So we use the only FDA cleared body wrap. But Dr Gerber, you had your hand up. Hi,

Speaker 6  55:30
Allison, sorry my mic wasn't on earlier. Looking fabulous, my dear. So great to see you. Oh, good to see you. What is the name of your piece of equipment that you like to use? Yeah, we use

Speaker 5  55:43
the contour light device. And that's actually local in Reno. It's manufactured in Reno. So well, yeah, and Doug, he's the the founder, and they make them in like, they have a factory that we you can go and see the lights being made and made in America. And Doug is salt of the earth. He's amazing. So

Speaker 6  56:00
thank you very much. Great to see you. Thank you. Good to see you too.

Speaker 2  56:05
Are there areas where you cannot put it on, like, for example, keep it away, on, on a wound, or the reproductive areas, or you can just put it wherever you want it, to put it out. We've

Speaker 5  56:18
had many doctors. So we had several people in Bentonville who had, like, tummy tucks and other things. And so their doctors actually gave them the green light to during their healing process, to come in and have the lights put on. Like, a couple weeks post op, they weren't allowed to exercise and do anything else, but they came in for the light portion and healed rather nicely, and we've had several people who have gotten over cancer, who've like, really, really improved their health with the red light therapy as well. So

Benoit Tano  56:52
the 20 the 25 session will be two months. Does it fall in your 190 $9 or they have to pay 199 each session. Oh

Speaker 5  57:05
no, it's 199 a month. So 199 a month, and you can come 30 times a month, and you get daily access. So that's where we're kind of crazy in the industry. And I did this when I did my last franchise company, club Pilates. But yes, it's, it's, how do we make it affordable and accessible? So I just moved back out west from the Ozarks, and in the Ozarks there was a chiropractor who offered the same exact services we offered with the light and the therapy, but her session was 259 for one treatment, or if you buy 20, it was $2,000 so I'm just doing my crazy entrepreneurial stuff that I did with club Pilates, of taking something that only Oprah and Madonna can afford to do regularly and make it available for the whole like a bigger portion of the population. Not everyone can afford 200 a month, but we do have, like, military discounts and veteran discounts and police officers, and we try to help our servicemen, who men and women a lot and like, yeah, we try to do that. But we definitely are on a model where it's literally, like, if they come, if they come and use it 30 times a month, it's about $8 a session, which is out of control. I mean, you can't even get a Starbucks for that. Oh, and Melvin, we have one opening in Tucson soon. It's up in Oro Valley by Trader Joe's on Oracle and Ina. So right up there it's opening in April. It's so

Unknown Speaker  58:30
alright, I'll be on it. Yes.

Speaker 5  58:38
Questions for you too, always. So at all of our locations, Hannah

Bill Clearfield  58:42
asked, he wants a little bit more information about macular degeneration and any other eye issues that you've had some experience with.

Speaker 5  58:53
Yeah, we've just had the one member who was a, she was an older lady, I think she had diabetes and she had the macular degeneration, but, yeah, she had a complete recovery. And her doctor's like, what are you doing different? Like, you don't have macular degeneration, and it was pretty amazing. So that that was really cool. And then two of my staff members have had their eyesight actually improve. So they, yeah, their their vision has improved. Okay? I saw a question about alcohol. So after the sun, like, if you get too much sun, it actually helps to prevent a sunburn, the red and near infrared light. We've had people who've had like marks on their skin, and they went to the dermatologist. Dermatologists couldn't do anything, and like, a couple months of red light therapy, that Mark is gone. We've had dozens of those stories. I know it's really good. There's a ton of studies on all the thyroid and everything as well for red light therapy, I'm just seeing these things. They do really suggest that you love your liver as much as possible during the treatment. So we suggest our people to drink like lemon water, take dandelion or any kind of ways that they can love their liver. I really like integrative therapeutic supplements. I've had my functional and naturopath doctors put me on that, but they have a LiPo tropic complex that's really good for the liver. It has like milk thistle and B vitamins. And so we try not to go into the nutritional realm or the prescribing realm, because that's out of our scope of practice in the boutique fitness wellness world. But we do, we do encourage people to love their liver and to avoid alcohol and to make dietary changes, what most places do who are more medical so there's a lot of chiropractors who offer the same use the same system and device we use. They'll put people on, like, some hardcore liver cleansing supplements and stuff like that. We don't do that so much because, yeah, it's just not everyone has different nutritional needs, as far as I know. And some people are great being vegan. Others really like carnivore. So we don't, we don't really mess with that, that arena. So

Benoit Tano  1:01:09
have you had any success with stubborn belly fat? Oh,

Speaker 5  1:01:14
yeah. Oh, big time. Yeah. I've lost like, inches in my belly, and I, first hand, had huge experiences from getting over a long COVID. I lost 11 pounds in two weeks. The first two weeks using the system. It was amazing. So, yes, it does body contouring major. It really helps. And that's one of it's been, it's been, like proven in studies to do that, to get the FDA clearance.

Speaker 2  1:01:41
Somebody has mentioned, about some athletes A while ago, so the studies had actually been involving exposure of red light therapy before exercise gives these athletes more of that cell cellular energy production. And one study that I have remembered about this would be volleyball players. So they did a study on them, and they actually saw benefits, that there were more number of repetition to failure on eccentric exercises like bicep curls and knee extensions before they actually did the exercise. So it's more of a pre as according to studies, but I'm sure you have post pre and even probably intra exercise that this will be beneficial for. But this is just more on the publication of red light therapy and athletes specifically. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:02:29
there's another study as well with, like, Olympic lifters doing squats, and they were able to actually, like, lift heavier and do more. And that's another study that's out there on PubMed or something. So I don't remember the exact details, but we do, we do exercise after. So we do the red light treatment first, and then exercise is our protocol.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:51
So Dr Andrew was asked about endometrial cancer, any experience with that? No,

Speaker 5  1:02:57
I'm not aware of anything with that. But I do know women feel a lot more comfort, and they have reported, like, endometriosis to kind of clear up and stuff like that. We've had members who were had like horrible menstrual cycles and stuff like that, report to us in Bentonville that they've had improvement in that area of their life. And another thing we had, like, a dozen members of ladies in their mid 40s who all came because it helps your gut flora, and so they would suffer from constipation, and literally, they'd come and, like, go home and have a great BM and come back and tell all their friends. But I thought that was pretty funny. I've never heard of people coming in for, at least in the fitness world, to come in because they're pooping better. It's kind of funny. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:03:50
yeah, that's more Dr narios world. Hey,

Speaker 2  1:03:55
I'll send out a study for the somebody's asking about Hashimotos. So there's a study here that I'll send out to you guys, there is benefit to red light therapy on that.

Speaker 5  1:04:06
Yes, and so we don't pregnant and breastfeeding. We will we would require them to have, well, not with breastfeeding. We actually have had people who have the when their ducks get clogged, is it mastitis? So we've had people come in while breastfeeding, and we put it on their breast, the red lights, and they're cleared up after that. No more clogged ducks. We don't have people do I'm sorry I'm reading this at the same time. If they're pregnant, we require a doctor's note for that. I know, like I was friends with my doctors down in San Diego when I had my children, and they were my clients at Club Pilates. And so I could text them and call them and we'd go out to dinner together. But there they told me that, like, I can continue doing Pilates since I did it before pregnancy. And they said it was like that with most things, as long as you've done it before. They're not but they didn't have me do the typical modifications that I learned as a Pilates instructor of what you can and can't do. They told me, No, you've been doing this so long, you're fine. Just keep doing what you're doing. You could sleep on your back. You can so they were very much like that. So I don't know what they would think about red light. I should probably call them and see what they thought if someone like if I were to be doing red light and get pregnant. What that would do now there is, like, I see a pacemaker thing here in the comments, pacemakers, our manufacturer says, Get your doctor's note. We have three members in Bentonville with pacemakers, and all three of them got their doctors okay to use it with a pacemaker. But that's one of the areas where he they just did it out of no data, just out of an abundance of caution, of hey, you got a pacemaker. Get your doctor's permission. So we do require doctors permission for pregnancy and pacemakers, I know, for the body contouring part with the liver. If you're flushing fat cells, it can be hard if you have a compromised liver or uncontrolled high blood pressure, and so that's in our waiver as well for people, when they come and join and if they're having uncontrolled high blood pressure, they're not, because it does increase blood flow and circulation. And maybe you guys understand the science of that more than I do, but that's us just following the manufacturer's protocols. So, I

Bill Clearfield  1:06:21
mean, just a word of caution. So a long time ago, in a land far, far away named Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, there was an outfit called the diet center. And they were, they were they were selling, it was in 1980s they were selling low fat diets. And they knew they wanted medical clearance, the medical doctor clearance, you know, the medical doctor didn't really get anything out of it. And the diet center was charging $1,000 for this diet program, and a lady came and who had some issues, I don't remember what it was then, and I said, I'm not clearing you for this. And the owner came to me and said, Well, why not? I said, Well, I said, if I, if I say, this is okay, you know, red light therapy and something, you know, and something goes wrong, well, your doctor said it was okay. It's his fault. So I would just caution, you know, the you know. And unfortunately, when you're in the medical doctor world, that you have to think like that. Oh,

Speaker 5  1:07:21
I know you guys have, like, crazy insurance and stuff. I can't even imagine, like, all the malpractice stuff and everything.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:27
So well I that I didn't want to bring that up. But, so what is the liability there? You know? I mean, what kind of liabilities Do you have?

Speaker 5  1:07:35
Um, really, like, I don't, I don't think we have anything like what you guys have. We're more in the boutique fitness world. So we have basic liability insurance and a basic waiver, and most people come in on their own accord. So it'd be a similar waiver to what you sign at Gold's Gym or anywhere that you go, kind of similar thing. So

Bill Clearfield  1:08:01
alright, so, so what if somebody

Benoit Tano  1:08:04
do you take any vitals? Because you said, if they're having crazy blood pressure, you don't do it, or you don't check the vitals, nothing.

Speaker 5  1:08:13
No, because we're not medical we're more boutique fitness that does a red near infrared light treatment. So yeah, no vitals or anything like that.

Benoit Tano  1:08:22
Well, they have to tell you if they have high blood pressure or something. Yes,

Speaker 5  1:08:26
yeah, it's usually all of that responsibility falls back on the member for sure. So you

Bill Clearfield  1:08:33
use that term quite a number of times. Can you define for us what boutique fitness is?

Speaker 5  1:08:38
Yeah, so boutique fitness didn't exist until about oh 607, and it's a it's a more personalized environment. They're usually 2000 square foot or smaller facilities, and it's not a big box gym. So like pure bar club, pilates, orange theory, those are all examples of boutique fitness concepts where they have a specialization and or like yoga pod, those are all kind of examples, versus, like a gold gym or 24 hour fitness, or Planet Fitness, those are big box gyms. And so boutique fitness is a huge industry, and it's only growing because it gives people more of a community, personalized feel, whereas like 24 hour fitness has 10,000 members who pay 10 bucks a month, and most of them don't go they just get they get auto debited forever. Boutique fitness, a successful establishment, will have four or 500 members at $200 a month, and that's pulling in the same numbers as a big box gym, but our rent and payroll is much smaller, usually, because we don't have a 20,000 square foot facility with all that kind of stuff. So boutique fitness is really awesome. It's a great, great industry. It kind of, it's, it started about early 2000s like 2005 but before that, like in the early 2000s late 90s, everything was kind of a group class within a big box gym. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:10:06
okay, um, Doctor Andrews comments, post menopausal, bleeding is almost always bad news. Aging Backwards does not occur in the uterus.

Speaker 5  1:10:13
Okay, yeah, I, I don't know the two ladies. They're, they're both my good friends. One was one of my estheticians in Arkansas. She was 55 stopped it got her period back. Now to the both of these ladies are like seeing functional doctors, and they're on testosterone and everything else under the sun. So who knows what caused their post menopausal bleeding? I don't know if it was red light method or if it was the hormone therapies that they're on. They all see doctors who put them on hormones and stuff. So they're mid 50s. Ladies who are see doctors who put them on hormone stuff. So maybe it was that not the red light, so probably left out the progesterone,

Bill Clearfield  1:10:51
right? So, yeah, and you know, we do get, you know, you know, PR, we do PRP in the, you know, in the upper vagina. And we do get, you know, or an exosome so we do get, you know, regenerative, you know, effects from, you know, from,

Speaker 5  1:11:09
yeah, I've done a PRP vehicle, and had it done in my rotator cuff and my SI joint and my knee before the PRP. It's great. It's great because I have a partially torn rotator cuff, and I had it done in 2010 and then again in 2021 and I'm like, pretty good. I just can't try to do a real push up. So, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:11:30
again, Doctor 190 $9

Speaker 2  1:11:33
that's basically one session a day, or if you decide to come in and later during the day for two Can you still do that? Like, how is it 199

Speaker 5  1:11:44
package? It's 30 sessions a month. So 199

Unknown Speaker  1:11:48
I use two in one day. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:11:50
they could do two in one day. They sure can. So I was

Speaker 2  1:11:54
just, not just one a day, but basically, that's the deal. I mean, one a day, if you want to do that,

Speaker 5  1:12:00
yeah, it's, it's 30 sessions. Yeah, 30 sessions a month. You could do one a day. Basically, we do it in a four pack, an eight pack, or we call it unlimited, which is 30 sessions, or unlimited, one visit a day. And so it's like, are do you plan to come once a week? That'd be the four pack. Do you plan to come twice a week? We get you the eight pack. If you think you can come three or more times a week. You ought to do the Unlimited, yeah, so that's how, like, a lot of boutique fitness is per session and that. And then you have to schedule it like we have an app. And because we have limited treatment rooms, we have nine treatment rooms, so we can see 18 people an hour, and they flow appointments every 15 minutes, and they flow from red light treatment. And during their treatment, they listen to a guided meditation with noise canceling headphones. It's super relaxing. They're deep breathing. They're getting that like that rest time, which is another thing we all need, because we're not getting sunshine. I get sunshine every day at high noon. I go to the hot springs and Carson City, Nevada at high noon, and my I love it. That was why I moved back to Northern Nevada, as I miss the hot springs and sunshine. But if you guys are ever in Northern Nevada and want to go the hot springs, let me know.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:12
Another comment from Doctor Andrew, I doubt TBI healing would be through the eye. Through the eyes with red light, animals are attracted to it, and she comments about getting some sort of informed consent. So, so what

Speaker 5  1:13:28
would informed consent? I think that medical term. What does informed consent mean?

Bill Clearfield  1:13:32
Will you tell you're supposed to tell your, your client, you know, everything that is beneficial, and then anything that can anything that can go wrong? Yeah, with alternatives and what? And alternatives also,

Speaker 5  1:13:50
okay, yeah, we we offer them and give people the choice to we don't persuade them either way. So we allow them to decide if they want to use them the goggles or not, but we could totally add informed consent. I think that's sound advice and prudent. So thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:05
Okay, what about intra nasal red light therapy?

Speaker 5  1:14:11
Yeah, I I've not actually tried it, but my husband, who snores and he suffers from allergies, he if he's feeling like congested in the nose. He goes 20 minutes in the lights and his he's cleared up in his sinuses. So it's pretty cool stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:27
Steve writes that methylene blue is activated with the 660 nanometer red light. And is that IV laser is best, Steve, is that what you wrote there, or is it it says looks like IV dash laser? I'm not sure what you mean by that.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:48
Maybe intravenous methylene blue. I've heard,

Bill Clearfield  1:14:52
yeah. How about red light in pancreatitis?

Unknown Speaker  1:14:58
I'm not She

Speaker 3  1:15:00
already said, That's not our bag, but we're going to definitely look into it more. I have one question, though, very curious, because you have all this experience with fitness, with business, with people, and we put together our little group here, put together a research group, and they turned out to be pretty phenomenal scientists, but what they are not are businessmen who deal with that type of thing, but they've made major discoveries that haven't been released to The public yet, and it deals with detoxification and chelation therapy. So my question was, with your boutiques, do you also offer products that they can use?

Speaker 5  1:15:53
Yes, that's a great question. So since we're only nine months into franchising and two and a half years into this new concept. We don't offer products yet, but we will offer products in the future, for sure. That's something that we added later in club Pilates as well. And the products, it's like 90% of the business model is the membership. And so the adding the products, it's a little bit extra, but sometimes it ends up being more work, like, it's like, it's almost like, better that we refer people to, to places to purchase, almost, than carrying it, because then we don't have to deal with the inventory and the staffing. So to me, the products are kind of like juicing a dry lemon versus the membership is where for us, the juicy lemon juice comes from. Thank you.

Benoit Tano  1:16:44
How many franchisees do you have so far? And where are you located? Most?

Speaker 5  1:16:51
Yes, so we have 51 territories in development. So I'm trying to beat my club Pilates record, which is 120 in two years. And so we're only at 10 months right now. So we're at 51 in development. We just have to open our third one's opening on Monday, and then Tucson opens up in April. We have two in Nashville opening in June, July. In Brentwood, Murfreesboro, Cincinnati, is also opening in that time frame, San Diego is still on the hunt. They found a great spot, but then the lease they thought was just awful. So certain times it's just not even worth it when you get 180 page lease that they want you to sign. Like my last lease I signed in Reno is like an eight page lease. It was so awesome. And we negotiated things in there, like, if there's a pandemic or world war three, we don't have to pay rent, like, stuff like that. And so we really like business is definitely more my my happy place. I love playing business and doing the the negotiations and the economics. And then we we build our business on loving our neighbor as ourselves. So we're a little bit more of like a loving woowoo business. But yeah, it's been, it's, it's really, it's a lot of fun, and it's been beautiful to see what red light method has kind of turned into. Because when I first opened it in August 2022 in Arkansas, no one was doing what we're doing, and I was in one of the bottom tiered places in the United States to start a new boutique fitness concept in Arkansas is like crazy, because San Diego is a much different market than Arkansas is. So it was, it's, it's exciting to see what it's done in that market, and how it's going to be in more health conscious markets, like Reno is opening up on Monday, and we're already 270 members, which is super awesome, and we have a 97% retention rate, and they're a real joy to own and operate as well. I couldn't wait to sell club Pilates. No offense, club Pilates, it's a great business, but I definitely was happy to sell that, and I didn't think I was going to ever do another one. So that says a lot about what the red light has done for my entrepreneurship drive. So

Benoit Tano  1:19:06
what support do you give to your franchisees, and at what price point?

Speaker 5  1:19:12
Yes, yeah, no. So our franchisees, we support them with every step along the way, from site selection and real estate, we run really extreme demographics. We do weekly support Carl's with our national sales director. So our franchisees open up in the black. They open up already profiting on their first day of opening the studio. And also we are one of our moral principles in franchising, is that we don't profit on the franchisees getting open so they get about $500,000 worth of equipment for $200,000 or less for their startup, because we are negotiated exclusives with the manufacturers. And so we get wholesale discounts. Franchisees typically pay a one time $50,000 franchise fee for a territory, and then, or if they do three or more, it goes down to 40,000 and there's a 6% royalty ongoing, and a 2% marketing and ad Fund, which is at the lower end. Like since I've sold club Pilates, they're at 10 to 12% royalty my my early franchisees and club Pilates got open for 60 to 80,000 now club Pilates sells them a $275,000 equipment package and charge 10 to 12% royalty. So it's that's how most franchises roll. But our our business is built on loving your neighbor as yourself. So I try to treat people more like people and less like consumers, and we try not to use the word corporate. I just don't like those terms. So I wish more people would do business from a standpoint of trying to help and serve as many people as possible, versus gouging people on every step along the way. Because it's if people just went and bought the equipment we have whole like their normal MSRP, they'd spend over a half million on just equipment. And so it's we really help our franchisees to get open for a lot less a typical boutique fitness franchise concepts about a half a million to get going. And ours is about 250 to 300,000 and an example is like, say, if we have 400 members at $150 each, we're getting 60 grand in monthly revenue. And our payroll is about 15 to 20,000 rent we see about 50% profit margins on that. So

Benoit Tano  1:21:27
the royalty is a perpetuity, right? What the royalty is that perpetuity? Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:21:34
the royalty, it continues on. So it's a 6% royalty that's paid to the franchisor. But we do do a lot of support for that. Like everything we have in house graphic design team. We provide all the digital assets. We do the website, the SEO, the sales coaching support. We help train their staff. So we have, like, a whole online platform where all the staff go through a 30 hour training before they even come into the facility. So they're trained quiz, trained quiz, and they have to pass all the quizzes before they even come in for in studio training. So we, I really love doing business systems, and it's nice to be able to have, like I do, read a lot of business books, and so you have employee, self employed business owner, investor, and you kind of have to go through and I think most doctors are in the self employed category, because they're exchanging their time for and we need doctors, and same thing with lawyers and stuff like that. But I think franchising and business ownership takes you into the B quadrant, where you're able to then make money, and it's not dependent on your time, so you you build a team, and then that helps to get to the investor quadrant, where you can invest just passively. But one thing that a lot of our franchise owners do, and I've, I've lived in different states, and had my locations running in other states, so that's it's nice you don't have to go into them, like when with my first eight club Pilates I owned. I had five in San Diego, but I lived in incline village, and then I had three. I used to have three in Reno, but I sold those. But I literally never even went into my Northwest Reno location. I think I went in there like once in like three years. So that's kind of the beauty of franchising, is they, if you do it right and get the right people on the boat and follow the systems, it's pretty it's like, copy paste, copy paste. So

Unknown Speaker  1:23:25
thank you. There's a

Bill Clearfield  1:23:27
question about Firefly PBM device. I don't know what that is. I'm

Speaker 5  1:23:31
going to guess, photo, bio modulation, something. Let me see if I can find it here on my my phone that has a red light tent, Firefly, I'm going to google it. So Firefly, PBM, let's see introducing Firefly the multi spectrum led therapy for pain, okay? Bails, photonics, okay, oh, it looks like it's more of a hand held. Yeah, that looks cool. It looks like it does numerous color spectrums. So I don't know, I don't know too much about it, but I know that there are different lights for different things, like, I know blue light, like, my 17 year old son was having some acne and pimples, and I got him a blue light mask, and his pimples went away pretty quick. So it's pretty cool. I know that those ones killed bacteria. So

Bill Clearfield  1:24:31
someone asked us, was it dangerous for someone with LiPo dystrophy?

Speaker 5  1:24:35
What is lipo dystrophy? Uh, uh,

Speaker 7  1:24:47
well, I'll answer that. It's a pathologic loss of fat cells, most commonly seen these days in patients who have HIV and are on antiretroviral therapy. And you'll notice that, because they'll have humongous, big, deep indentations in their faces, they look like Willem Dafoe, the actor. Yeah, it's it is fairly common because of all the antiretrovirals that are going around. And my suspicion is it, that's why the company says don't use it in people who have HIV and anybody who has another kind of lipid dystrophy might be at equal grid.

Speaker 5  1:25:26
Okay, yeah, I would imagine. I wouldn't think we'd want anyone to do it with that, because I we wouldn't want to mount any extra fat cells if they're already having fat cells going away. So I would just hypothesize no from my limited scope there. Hope, I think you're muted. Dr Clearfield, if you're talking my

Bill Clearfield  1:25:50
intermittent gets gets tired about this time of the night, and it it goes out. There wasn't a question about Hashimotos thyroiditis. Can you put the light right on the on the thyroid? Okay,

Speaker 5  1:26:09
I bet Dr Melvin might know on this, but there are many studies showing the benefits with the thyroid. I do know many practitioners who place one on the thyroid. We've done that. We haven't done that too much, but we do have a face, neck, chest piece that it doesn't go right on the face because we don't want to dissolve fat cells in the face, because we want people to keep their fat in their face, because it helps them stay more youthful. So our face piece is about 12 to 18 inches away, and it covers from the top of the head down to the decollete, and so you're still getting it on the thyroid, but not, not like direct, directly placed on it. So, but I bet Dr Melvin, you know about that?

Speaker 2  1:26:54
Yeah. So with the protocol that was on the study, they actually did this in a more systemic way. I mean, yeah, I don't think there's any problem putting the light on the thyroid, but on the study, they combine it with other supplements, also like Selenium, vitamin D. So with Hashimoto is it's really more of a multi factorial approach, rather than just doing I mean, sure it wouldn't harm you at all. I'm sure if you're doing just red light, you're going to get benefit, but the protocol adds more of the vitamin D and selenium on it too.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:30
Yeah, there's a there's questions about protocols for Hashimotos. And what I'm gathering is that you, you're sort of a one size fits all for the these therapies. You don't do anything specific, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:27:41
we don't, not in our 90% discounted like that would be,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:48
yeah, that it would be more for, you know, the medical, you know, facility, I would think, Okay, Doctor Andrews wrote a whole thing from the contour light manual. I'm not going to read it all. I if you're there. Dr Andrew, if you want to comment on that,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:09
she addressed it already. I think, Alright, there

Bill Clearfield  1:28:12
was a question about the alcohol or dehydration. Is there a is there a warning on that, or is there an issue with that from

Speaker 5  1:28:22
personal experience, I I've been fine with it if I've partaken and

Bill Clearfield  1:28:27
still delivered, you know, to know the details. So, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:28:31
yeah. So um, but we do suggest people to drink lots of water and be hydrated and to avoid alcohol or greatly minimize it when they're doing the treatments, and we always encourage just a healthier lifestyle in general. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:48
okay, yeah. And again, Dr Andrews about the retinal improvements were that were shown and demonstrated in mice. It was short duration of exposure, 90 seconds. And so you need to, you know, be a little bit careful with that. So yeah, definitely

Benoit Tano  1:29:05
you didn't mention some pre and post things that you did, outcome type of studies that you did when people come in, you see what they were, and then, after the light therapy, you quantify and see how improvement they have had. So are you reporting those to someone or keeping them or trying to show them in your commercials? Or how, how you doing this?

Speaker 5  1:29:32
Yeah, yeah. So we have done testimonials with our members before. So after hiring the FDA attorney and learning about all the FDA laws, I didn't want to mess around with making claims outside of what we are FDA cleared for, because it could be both FDA and FTC kind of violations. And so I know a lot of places use testimonials. We do use testimonials as well, but our testimonials are generally based on what we're cleared for with the inches lost. But it's really cool, because the staiku, I don't know if you guys have seen images of it, let me see if I can share an image here. This is an image I'm going to pull off from my desktop. I'm going to stick it in here. And can you guys see that image I just sent through? You can see her styood body scans. And this is Emily, actually our member, who was in the car accident and gained about 60 to 70 pounds. And those are her befores and afters, and you can see how she improved. And it the stycu is really cool. It gives a lot of information from the dex list scan. So it looks at the waist to hip ratio. It looks at body fat percentage, and it helps to identify like chances of cancer, cardiovascular or longevity. And that's based on, based on those scans from the psyche, which is one of the tools we use to measure the inches before and after people. So

Bill Clearfield  1:31:00
we don't I don't see it. I don't know anybody else does. So you

Speaker 2  1:31:05
need to download it. So you need to click on it and open up.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:09
Okay, okay, good, alright. So Kayla, you have your hand raised,

Speaker 8  1:31:19
yes. I was just saying the same thing. I can't see this IQ, what she was referring to,

Bill Clearfield  1:31:25
okay, okay, and let's see what else we got. Can't see this guy. Okay, alright, oh, she downloaded it, so it'll come up in the chat. There you go. Okay, okay. Dr Nario, you have any questions in the email?

Speaker 2  1:31:44
Well, I was throwing that out already. Well, okay, questions a while ago. Well, one thing though, you mentioned about your son doing blue light. So blue light, yeah, you're right. It's more for infections. But there are also some, some small studies that we're using red light therapy for acne, also for the inflammation and the sebum production, so that also can be used.

Speaker 5  1:32:06
Yes, we've seen eczema go away completely for many members. We probably have about a dozen I can think of right now, just in our Arkansas prototype, where their Eczema is gone with regular red light use.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:21
So we don't have to do all that microbiome stuff and sit and talk to these people for three hours about, about, you know, eating fried chicken and and

Unknown Speaker  1:32:29
like, don't do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:34
Right? Yeah. Okay, all right. Well, um, anybody else have any comments or questions?

Benoit Tano  1:32:43
Well, this was most interesting. I have a quick question, yeah, in terms of the TBI, is it in? It's not in IQ. So these are people who have had concussions or brain trauma that come in and then they get help, right?

Speaker 5  1:33:04
Yes, I'm let me see if I can find the book on my audibles, but I know that there's a book, and it's all about, I listened to it about a year and a half ago, but it's all about traumatic brain injury and how the different modalities to heal it. And they have a whole chapter, the brain's way of healing by Norman, yeah. Do you guys know Norman dodgy?

Speaker 7  1:33:34
Okay, and make sure you start preparing the bed. Yeah. Norman doyg is going,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:42
yeah. 30. Would you class this night? Go, okay, I don't know somebody TV on. So is that you shell turn it into turning into Dr Patel there. So,

Speaker 4  1:34:06
no, I have everything off. It's not me. No, no, no, yeah, we heard you

Bill Clearfield  1:34:15
in that self healing brain book about hormones at all. Hormone abnormalities.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:21
Um, I'm sorry I say that again. Dr Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:24
anything in that self healing brain book by the Norman doiji about hormones and hormone irregularities?

Speaker 5  1:34:34
No, I confess I mainly listen. Yeah, I listened to the red light a bunch. I listened to that chapter like five times. I did research.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:48
Allison, this was great. Thank you so much. And I don't know somebody out there might want to sign up and become a franchisee, so, you know, it may happen, I don't know, territory you're in South Reno, so, yeah, exclusive territory. I mean, the Get get so many square feet, and then, you know, or is it the

Speaker 5  1:35:18
we do really advanced demographic research that knows everything about everybody. So it follows your cell phone, it follows your credit card. Our software is super amazing, so I can click on it and see our look alike populations. We're going to be developing four in Northern Nevada. So we're doing one in Northwest Reno, one in Sparks, one in Carson City. Every market is a little different. In Northwest Arkansas, we're just doing two but like Naples, Florida, for an example, a population of just 15,000 we could do three red light methods there, because the population, they only drive 10 minutes, and all they do all day is take care of themselves. So they like go get their vitamin IVs, and they go to Pilates, and then they go to lunch and they do red light therapy and get a massage. So in a demographic like Naples, Florida, we could have several even though it's a very small population, but we look at all that kind of data before putting one in. But our franchisees do get a protected radius and a protected territory based on their population and demographic which is dependent on, like, the amount of people who are active, because we only need 300 400 members per location to be a viable business model. And in a metro area like Reno small, it's only about a half a million. But like, Dallas is over 8 million Metro, San Diego is a 4 million Metro Yeah, Southern California is insane. Like it's 40 million people from LA Riverside, Orange County, San Diego. So way different than like, Northern Nevada is teeny tiny, and so is northwest Arkansas, in comparison to those bigger markets like Dallas and stuff. So

Bill Clearfield  1:36:56
I'll give you my son's phone. He lives in he lives in China, Beijing has 23 million people. Shanghai is 25 million people, right? Joe has 22 million people. Hong Kong has 20 million people. I think Mexico City

Speaker 5  1:37:12
is like that too. MEXICO CITY IS REALLY BIG too, but, yeah, I don't. His

Bill Clearfield  1:37:16
wife grew up in what's considered a village there, and there's five it's only 5 million. That's Oh my gosh,

Speaker 5  1:37:25
yeah. So we're out at nowhere. Doctor Clearfield, up here in northern Nevada, so the Great Basin, hot springs everywhere. Hey,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:33
doctor, COVID, do you have any any place on the East Coast yet?

Speaker 5  1:37:38
Um, we do have Tampa, and that is all no place in the East Coast yet. And I don't have, I don't have a very big network on the east coast. So yeah, club Pilates was like that too. We didn't go to the east coast for a couple years. So

Bill Clearfield  1:37:54
okay, does the does the baby there get the red light therapy?

Speaker 5  1:37:59
Yes, he does. I know he's so such a demanding little toy poodle here. So, yeah, he's very he likes it. I put the red lights on him, and he loves it. I make all his food too. So he's a little woo, woo doggy. He gets

Unknown Speaker  1:38:15
doggy glasses. I

Unknown Speaker  1:38:17
have doggy glasses. No, no doggy glasses,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:21
vision. Now. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:23
his vision has improved.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:26
Dr NAS would suggest Long Island, New York.

Speaker 5  1:38:30
Oh yeah, I've ran the demographics, and we've had interest up in the northeast and everything. But not, or actually, I don't know, we are registered in New York, because when you franchise, you have to audit yourself. It's a real extreme process. It's expensive to start a franchise with all the paperwork and the legality and the registering in states and auditing yourself for fun. But there's certain states, when you do a franchise, you're good in 38 states, and then there's 12 registration states, and New York is a registration state. We actually did recently get registered in New York, and I think one of the only states we're not we're not in Hawaii registered yet, or Washington state, but I've heard Washington State takes about 18 months right now to get registered in, but we are good in like Illinois and all the others. So California,

Bill Clearfield  1:39:20
okay, alrighty, Okay. Anybody else, any comments or questions?

Benoit Tano  1:39:25
So how do we get a hold of you if we're interested in knowing more about all this stuff?

Speaker 5  1:39:32
Yes, I could be reached at Allison, a, l, l, i, s, O N, at Red Light method.com, that's my email, yeah, so Allison at Red Light method.com

Speaker 2  1:39:50
I got a smarty pants patient who I was recommending red light therapy to, and he was just saying, I'm just going to get it through the sun. So there is, there is infrared light in the sun, but you also get the UV rays with that. So if that's something that they want to get, sure, and then skin cancer along with that. But red light therapy definitely is something that I would just, hey, it's pretty easy. Just go in there, just do it. And yeah, to pay for it, right?

Speaker 5  1:40:18
Yes, yeah. And then the red and near infrared lights. I know that it's strongest at sunrise, and we have to have our skin exposed. So I now, like here in Northern Nevada, it's like 10 degrees tomorrow and flurrying. So I know places it sometimes it's hard to go outside when it's really cold and get your skin exposed. It might be nicer in like Tucson, you could do that, but most of the time it

Unknown Speaker  1:40:41
gets cold, though. So you know, you

Bill Clearfield  1:40:44
know Stefan Hartman, he likes that cold forge therapy. So he likes it at the 10 degrees outside in his skivvies, right?

Speaker 5  1:40:55
And I know the cold stuff, stuff is so good because I, I used to track my HRV and all that stuff with my aura ring. And I know that when I did cryotherapy or cold plunging, my heart rate would get lower than normal for my resting heart rate at night, which is amazing. It's just so hard to do. I don't know if you guys have done the cold plunges and stuff like, Woo, that's a next level. Like, you're amazing. If you could do that, like if you could cold plunge, you could do anything, if you could sit in a bath of ice for three minutes, like you're Superman. It's so good for you, though. So we

Bill Clearfield  1:41:30
had it. We actually it's on our on the AOS rd website, we actually have a had a lecture on that, I think it was last fall, about that cold storage therapy. So, yeah, there's,

Speaker 5  1:41:42
yeah, Wim Hof is the cool ice man. He does the different breathing techniques too. And I know when I do the Wim Hof breathing again, my heart rate gets down really low, because I tend to be a hummingbird, and my resting is like 60. And so when I can get into the 50s, it's pretty cool. My husband's like a cardio jump. His resting heart rates like in the upper 30s, but he's like a five minute mile runner and I'm a 30 minute mile Walker. So we're different.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:11
Okay, so all of our, all of our, or most of our previous programs, are on aos rd.org so you can find that there. It's under cold forge therapy. And it's also on YouTube. It's under my name on there, okay, so if you need that, okay, okay. Anything else? Any summary, give us a. Give us a. My, my son was in theater. You always want them leaving, leaving the theater, you know, singing the lead song. So what's the lead song?

Speaker 5  1:42:46
Yeah, for red light method, I would say our lead thing is that we're different than other boutique fitness places, because we work the body from the inside out. Most wellness fitness modalities are working the body from physical exertion from the outside in. So we're one of the few to try to do it from the inside out, which has been really, really beautiful. And all the wonderful healings and things we've seen happen has just been amazing. So it's been a real blessing. And I'm just humbled and thankful. I know my general manager and I were just people, people who love people, and so to see people have their eyesight, macular degeneration, go away and get relief from diabetic neuropathy and to get energy back, it's just been a beautiful kind of like a mission ministry, almost. So like helping heal the world, which I think you guys probably all agree with, is wellness professionals and doctors that like helping people feel better is so important, and we're in a predicament here in our society where people need that a little bit more than normal. So yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:54
Dr Andrews writes, it seems quicker, but to quote, turn to the light. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:44:01
guided by the light. Yeah, there's one of our favorite sayings that we say in the studio is, Get Lit. Like our members come in and they're like, I'm here to get lit. So we kind of roll with it, like we have some shirts made, and they say, Get Lit on it, and stuff like that. But yeah, everyone comes in and they're happy to be there, and they want to get lit so, but I like turn to the light and Quakers good. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:30
okay, well, thank you so much, Allison, we'll have the video. We'll have the video up as soon as we can. We'll get you a copy of it and contact information from our participants. Next week, Stefan, our own Stefan Hartman is going to be presenting us with a mystery topic. And it's a mystery topic because you wouldn't

Bill Clearfield  1:45:01
tell me the research group.

Speaker 2  1:45:06
Dr Billy got cut off. You repeat that again.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:09
Anything from the research group there? Quinn?

Speaker 3  1:45:16
Dr, Quinn is leading the charge, and he's doing an excellent job making progress every week. Tell us more. Robert, oh, my god, can you hear me? Okay, yeah, fine. Oh, okay, good. I sent out a bunch of notes, I guess, to let everybody kind of see where we are in the various areas with the you know, like the tribal entities and the clinics that people are talking about, the apothecary, we're establishing that, and I've begun to work on a bunch of things that can be carried there. The education is a big, big part of this with Dr channels, books and other things. Dr James, Andrew James has got an entire system. I put out his website, which is is really good. He's kind of leading with something that's already in place. And one thing that was brought up that I think is really important, and that is his emphasis on the religious aspect of everything, that the that the if you talk about First Nations Medical Board, and what the First Nations is, and how the treatments go in the United States, from way back when a lot of it is has been done under religious ceremonies, and I think he has kind of further shielded himself from scrutiny by also talking about that. We do have the research studies going on and that the big thing, I think, is the heavy metal chelation product that was already mentioned, that beat Demetria is working on. And now we're also talking about lifestyle modification. We're going to bring some more of that in there. And then now our big push is to put everything together and find out the direction that we're going. There's also a meeting in West Virginia on June 1 of this year. In case anybody is interested, please get a hold of Marie Fogarty or John Burgess. I think that pretty much covers where we are in a nutshell.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:27
Okay? Dr, Cannon, you have anything? You're muted.

Benoit Tano  1:47:36
You're muted. I said no, so no, no additional things. Doctor Quinn did a great summary of what we're doing, and I think there's a good progress. So now we have a track where we going and trying to figure it out step by step.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:55
Okay, great. Okay. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Anybody has anything they'd like to present? Please let me know.

Speaker 3  1:48:04
Can I ask Allison one thing real quickly? Yeah, I was

Bill Clearfield  1:48:07
going to get back to Allison. So

Speaker 3  1:48:10
can I ask all of this smacks of a tremendous wellness type of situation, and you mentioned liver and things like that. And you briefly said something about diet, and I'm wondering, do you guys do recommendations to anybody, or just kind of let them go with what's happening, or do you address that at all? You mentioned, oh, people can be vegan, people can be carnivores. Do you do anything about that?

Speaker 5  1:48:40
No, we really don't, just because our scope to give dietary advice I know, at least the laws I know around boutique fitness and our insurance and stuff like that, is we're supposed to avoid giving like, specific but we always encourage people to eat whole foods and natural and like, avoid seed oil and sugar so and we encourage them to just be more mindful of it, and, like, avoid fast food and that kind of stuff. So, yeah, we've referred a lot of people to watch, like Dr Berg's videos, but we Yeah, he has great little snippets on stuff easy to digest. But yeah, we encourage them to do something different, especially if the weight loss is their goal, that they need to probably change something and the red light seems to help their diet. But yeah, we don't do any kind of prescriptive we try to avoid prescriptive things. That's why our protocol is kind of like a one size meets most people's needs kind of thing. So

Speaker 3  1:49:38
Yeah, makes sense? Good. Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 5  1:49:42
I'm really interested in learning about parasites and stuff, so if you guys ever do something on parasites, like I want to be on for that one, and if you have a parasite,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:51
so we'll let you know. In fact, okay, come to Miami in April. I'm doing a microbiome for ammg So and and I get the Johnny Castle lecture again. I'm the last lecturer, so

Speaker 5  1:50:10
that's awesome. Yeah, it's fascinating. I don't know if you guys watched Joe Rogan, but Joe Rogan recently had Mel Gibson on, and Mel Gibson had four of his friends in stage four cancer who healed themselves with Finn bendazole and ivermectin and zinc and certain protocols. It's known as the Joe Tippins protocol. But that kind of stuff really fascinates me, so I'm really interested in that arena of stuff. Because, yeah, so anyways, I don't want to divert the conversation into parasites. It's fascinating Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:38
in well, and on that note, those of you who know that may not know that our doctor, Forsyth, you know, our integrative oncologist, passed away. I think it was two weeks ago. And you know, that's a big loss for all of us. He was Mr. Integrative oncology. So the doctor, Nari, is in his office with him, so he's carrying on the the tradition, hopefully. So okay, Allison, this was really terrific. Thank you so much for all your insight and your your your enthusiasm. It was really great. And it's always nice to have see here's somebody who's not in the medical paradigm, who's actually out there, you know, you know, you know, beating the bushes to do business. You know, we're always told that, you know, it's a, you know, medical doctors, it's a sin to make money. You know, it's so it's nice to hear the perspective from, from from another viewpoint, and that you're doing well, doing good while you're doing it. So, so thank you so much. Oh, by the way, I am a member also. So just, just for full disclosure,

Speaker 5  1:51:54
yes, yeah, Dr Clearfield will be coming in with, with Dawn, I think on Monday or two. I don't know, Monday is going to be crazy. We have like 200 people coming on Monday. It's going to be insane. So maybe come on Tuesday or Wednesday or later, but you could come on Monday too. It's just going

Bill Clearfield  1:52:10
to be Tuesday. I'm here, and Monday we get you, getting here, getting there. Was could be a problem. That'll that'll be an issue. So do you have home do you rent out home equipment?

Speaker 5  1:52:25
No, we don't. But yeah, the I like might over red panels for home devices. They're a great panel. But I yeah, like the medical grade body contouring ones are just they're pretty amazing what they do. So

Bill Clearfield  1:52:41
okay, Dr Nario, anything else?

Speaker 2  1:52:44
No, just looking forward to go to your I guess, to your boutiques,

Speaker 5  1:52:49
yeah, yeah, yeah, it'll be or do you live by the US? Do

Speaker 2  1:52:53
you collaborate with practitioners like we could, like the referral systems here in Reno?

Speaker 5  1:53:00
Yeah, we do. We do lots of that in the community. Like we had one physical therapist in Reno closing up her operation, and she refer, referred 400 of her people after retiring and closing, to come to us because she offered the same system, but she charged like $100 a session, so her former patients are really excited. And we always try to network with local people, and we do events each month for networking and marketing, and we bring in our members who might be in similar like minded fields to do pop up workshops and stuff. But all the community outreach stuff is really great and to build that sense of community, because I think a lot of people are looking for that right now, and I think that's probably think that's probably why the boutique concepts do so well compared to the big box gyms, is because there's not really a community in those so,

Speaker 2  1:53:52
yeah, so there's some information so we can work together for patients, And also

Bill Clearfield  1:53:59
we'll get it to you. Okay, all right, have that protein drink. Dr nariel, so I

Unknown Speaker  1:54:06
know I'm getting hungry,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:08
alrighty. And you know, Dr Nari was in my office, you know, one day, usually one day a week, and I've never seen a meat he doesn't eat lunch. He doesn't have a snack,

Speaker 5  1:54:19
nothing. Oh, so you're in Northern Nevada, Doctor Nario. I thought you were down in Tucson. You just

Speaker 2  1:54:25
did jump back and forth for the fellowship. So okay, so you got me all revved up. Now I got a little humpy and excited about your topic. So yeah, let's

Speaker 5  1:54:34
go to the hot spring sometime and nerd out on it. So it'll be fun.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:38
I'm in. Okay, cool.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:42
Alrighty, Okay, everybody, this was, this was great mystery, mystery lecture next week. So stay tuned. And anything else, John, medical school, or you, or you're sort of retired at the

Speaker 3  1:54:59
moment, I'm retired at the moment. Okay, okay, everything's going to go good with all of that.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:05
Okay, alright. Take care, buddy. Okay, alright, thank you, alright, okay, okay, good night, everybody. Um, we'll be back same time next week, same time, same station, Saturday morning, Doctor Quinn's research show, Doctor Quinn and Dr tannos Research show, and other than that, stay well. I'll see you all next week. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai