Unknown Speaker  00:51
Hey, John,

Bill Clearfield  01:01
Anybody out there?

Speaker 1  02:44
There. John, beautiful, beautiful, I'm glad you're doing this talk tonight. Everybody should know this.

Bill Clearfield  02:52
They were excited about it last week, and my my regular speaker dropped out on Friday. Aha. So who's the regular everybody's you know, got a lot of had a lot seem to have a lot of interest in it. So it seemed like a natural.

Speaker 1  03:10
I think it proves, it proves that we can know things and not share it with each other. Because even Melvin didn't know that you knew how to do this stuff, and it's big stuff.

Bill Clearfield  03:24
No, get out of here. He's seen me. He's seen

Unknown Speaker  03:28
me do it. You get, oh, okay,

Bill Clearfield  03:31
I used, I use it all the time.

Unknown Speaker  03:35
Well, it's important stuff. He's

Bill Clearfield  03:37
he's coming on right now, going to ask him,

Speaker 1  03:41
it's important so if you can keep people alive with this, so it's very important. And that's just, do you do? You do the other parts of the body to the you know?

Bill Clearfield  03:53
Yeah, I pretty much only do like, like the big things. I don't do real subtle things, because doing 9 million other things. So, but like, mostly, like the constitutional, bio, psycho types, those kinds of things. So, the, you know, the the, like, the what would be in homeopathy, like the classical homeo homeopathy would be, like the classical acupuncture, sort of really an agent, you know, yeah, so, before you

Bill Clearfield  04:40
how long ago was that?

Speaker 2  04:42
That was like, ages ago. See, I still remember I was, I was one of your groupies.

Bill Clearfield  04:49
That's why I remember so. So I'm in frigid Miami tonight. By the way,

Unknown Speaker  04:56
I'm in Arizona. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:59
it's freezing. It's freezing. It's freezing here. I think I took, I came last night, overnight. It's like it was 60 degrees in the windy here, and I'm looking at the temperature is supposed to go down in the 30s during the week. At night

Speaker 2  05:16
here in Arizona, we're getting into the 50s. It's it's raining so,

Bill Clearfield  05:23
so it is what it is. Well, I didn't need to come all the way out here for this.

Speaker 3  05:29
It's 57 right now in Vegas, but we are getting our low this morning was like 3433 they were freaking out, that's for sure,

Unknown Speaker  05:42
freaking out. Oh, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:45
all right. So I'm not sure how long this is going to take. I have my, you know, the latest on estrogen and testosterone, if it's just, if it's, if it's, you know, if it goes real, real short. So we'll see.

Speaker 2  05:59
Oh, I'm gonna back it up with our experience here. So we just had a return demo for Battlefield a Capone shirt. People were passing out. People were just

Bill Clearfield  06:10
passing out from having it, having it done. Yeah, they're not doing it right. I've never had, well, I mean, I've had, I've had probably so. So I've been doing acupuncture since 1991 that's when I finished the UCLA class. So, and I'll never forget, the first person that I, that I had that did pass out was actually a friend of mine, and I didn't know what the hell I had done to her, but I'm good with it now. Just make sure you have some smelling salts around and make sure they're hydrated. That's all. And did you know the two alarm points

Speaker 2  06:50
awake them back up? No. What is that?

Bill Clearfield  06:54
All right, so governor, vessel 26 and kidney one. So I'll show you where those are

Unknown Speaker  07:00
not in that lesson yet. I guess,

Speaker 1  07:02
by the way, kidney one is considered in the United Nations nations program, the one point to bring a person back to life.

Bill Clearfield  07:13
Yeah, well, it's just yeah, Governor vessel, Governor vessel 2026, and kidney one are the two alarm points. So, yeah, so, I mean, we have Dr nary. We were you around? We were doing a we did a phlebotomy on a guy. And then afterwards, he

Speaker 2  07:31
passed out. Yeah, I was there. I was getting his blood pressure,

Bill Clearfield  07:35
yeah, yeah. So, you know, so we, you saw me smashing my my thumb below his nose. That's Governor vessel.

Speaker 2  07:42
He was punching him to to wake him up.

Bill Clearfield  07:45
Yeah, that that too. That was governor vessel, 26 so I'll,

Unknown Speaker  07:53
oh, cool. Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:56
let me, let me. Can you let a few folks in? I'll find, I'll find a map for that. Okay, yeah, I let them in. I'm not sure I have that on my

Speaker 2  08:14
So, yeah, well, we were doing so we just did. We're not done yet. We're doing battlefield acupuncture here in Tucson. So these are actual doctors that I'm with, and the funny things that were just popping out was, like migraines were getting stimulated, chronic pain.

Bill Clearfield  08:35
You've seen me, you've seen me do it, haven't you? Yeah, yeah, I have. But we get rid of, we get rid of migraine headaches in 30 seconds.

Speaker 2  08:45
I don't know if it was just a technique that they did. The instructor was saying that it's probably just really, to begin with, there were some underlying conditions going on so

Bill Clearfield  08:59
that that's they're not doing it, right? I guess, sorry, sorry,

Speaker 3  09:06
you've done it to me. You probably don't be I have, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:10
I don't know if I have the video up. We have a video of Joel.

Unknown Speaker  09:14
Actually, let me get that passing out, right?

Bill Clearfield  09:19
No, no, I've never had anybody doing it. I've been doing this for 20, almost 30 years. Ever passed out I was, I was, I was actually one of one, one of the one of the one of the ones that Dr nimsao, who's, who's the sort of the Gou actually, you know, branded past and practice on when he first, when they first came up with it.

Speaker 2  09:49
So you heard, you heard of the name celiya Hildebrand. Do you know her? Hildebrand? Yeah, she's the one. She's a licensed acupunturist here in Tucson, Sher conducting the courses for us.

Bill Clearfield  10:07
Now, they should have me there, right.

Speaker 2  10:11
Come over. Hey, I have, yeah, I'm gonna give you some updates later.

Bill Clearfield  10:18
Now, yeah, I've been doing this for almost more than more almost 30 years, long before it was even brought out, you know, to the public. And I've never had anybody pass out from doing this. Their ears can hurt a little bit, but

Speaker 2  10:37
so we've been using needles. We're using Pelton, we're using magnets. We're using. What else do we use?

Bill Clearfield  10:45
We've used, we've used magnets. We've used, yeah, we've used, we used a little, tiny ASP needles. I'll show you those. And we use the we use body needles. That's pretty much it okay.

Speaker 1  11:03
There is, let me throw it in, because I've been doing it like Bill for like, 30 some years too. And I replaced the needles with, you can reduce the pain and the needles and the a lot of those problems if you use trans Derma, homeo puncture. In other words, you can put a mixed drop of a driver and the homeopathic usually, tra meal is excellent, and you can put that one single drop on those same places, bills talking about and get the additional homeopathic effect. Just thought I'd mention it. It works.

Unknown Speaker  11:45
Oh, who's that young buck right there? Look

Speaker 3  11:48
at look at that good look. Look at those two good looking guys, right? Amen. I lost a lot of weight. Looks like it's

Unknown Speaker  11:57
brothers, younger brothers. I

Bill Clearfield  12:04
yeah, I mean, you know, last year at Acupuncturist conference, I did a whole two I did two workshops on treating hormone excesses and deficiencies with Acupuncturist treatment protocols. So let me tell you, there's not a whole lot of literature

Speaker 2  12:27
on it. Yeah. I mean, there's a lot of questions here. I'm with conventional docs, and they're asking us a lot about they're asking their instructor, what are the studies? What? Well, she shows I'm gonna

Bill Clearfield  12:39
show you, I'm gonna I'm gonna show you them right now.

Speaker 2  12:42
Yeah, well, it was showing through FMRIs. That's how she showed us how it was working.

Bill Clearfield  12:51
Okay, well, you're going to be able to to, there's a couple of quotes here. We're going to show you the cytokines that that are affected with Acupuncturist by Acupuncturist needles. So, yeah, it's good stuff.

Speaker 2  13:08
Yeah, those are that's the map that we've been poking on. I don't know if you could see it. Can see it go. It's Gou Pelton,

Bill Clearfield  13:18
kind of a bright light. Wilkin, where

Speaker 2  13:21
is it? I'm here, so I already, oh, yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  13:26
right, yeah, you got two of them up there.

Speaker 2  13:29
I got, like, all those points stuck in there. If I go back to Reno, I'm going to go through the airport. Will they ding me for it? No, you'll be all right, I'm not going to be. Hey, bend over. We need to search the whole package here.

Unknown Speaker  13:48
I can't answer that one bill.

Speaker 1  13:50
Let me ask you. Let me ask you, real quick, have you ever done home Acupuncturist on the ear, or any place else?

Bill Clearfield  13:58
I have not. I've not injected the ear. Okay? I don't have, I almost exclusively use now. You have to, you have to define homeo puncture. For me. Only do

Speaker 1  14:11
is not injections with homeopixer liquid. It's trans Derma, Derma,

Bill Clearfield  14:17
yeah, okay, yeah, yeah. We do that all the time. You do that. I haven't done it on the using the ear, though, but I do use it on the body. Points. We do trans Derma we do trans Derma Lee, and we do and we do injections. In fact, when I do my, you know, we do cosmetic work, you know, you know, Botox fillers and whatnot, I only use Acupuncturist points for my entry. Entry points. I don't even bother to look at what the Allergan or what the other teachers do. We get much better results. I hardly ever get even a drop of blood, right? I never get an eye group, you know? I never get any of the any of the complications. I never get a I never get any of the filler in the in any of the blood vessels, then we'd like 1/3 less product. So, so you can spread this the same amount, we can spread it and spread it much, you know, much more evenly. And we use, we use a lot less. So we can cover a lot more, depending on, you know, your your goal. So one of the beauties of the trans Derma homeopathic is that it can be done by the patient at home, if they have a partner, have somebody can do it. Yeah, and we'll do that. And, you know, we'll show them, like heart seven, if they have they're having a lot of anxiety. I'll show everybody that that spot if you want on, but you know, it's on your wrist, and you know, in 30 seconds, you just take your thumbnail or have somebody press on it, and, you know, calms you right down. So Right? You know, they didn't believe in anatomy. You know, way back in when all of these things were sort of, sort of teased out. It was just all trial and error. And they, you know, they didn't, they didn't like doing it, do, you know, an anatomic dissection. So they were pretty smart, because they're, you know, almost all of the acupuncture points are near, are around blood vessels with tiny, you know, blood vessels or nerve nerve roots, so but you know when I do you know when we do any type of joint injection, I only use the acupuncture points, and you can feel when you when you do your palpation. If you know where the acupuncture points are, those are always. The Chinese call that the Ascorbate ouch points. That's where the patients have have their pain. You know, if you feel along like the spine of the scapula, when you have somebody with a shoulder issue and they have, they say, Oh, it hurts in the back too, if you feel along the spine, you'll feel a knot. You know, you feel that, you'll feel the trigger point. And it's, it's in an exact Acupuncturist point, right in the center of the scapula. I think that's triple warmer. 16 is the designation. It's always there in the deltoid, large intestine, 15 AC joint, instead of just, you know, look going for the big area, find, find, find the acupuncture point. And it's, it takes a little bit of practice, but once you once you know what you're looking at, you know somebody's got to stand there and sort of guide you. But it's all the holes in the you know where you're going. You put your finger along, along the scapula, along the clavicle, and then go down into the ac joint. When you fall into the hole, that's your point, that's your spot, and that's usually what's most tender. So I haven't been recording. We're, we're after eight. I guess what? You know, I'm In Miami, so it's after eight. Sher, so so it's after five. So Doctor Nario, do you have a tip of the week for us?

Speaker 2  18:06
Yes, sir. Live from Arizona. So okay, want to start, yep, take it away. Okay. So, yeah, live from Arizona. I'm going to be bringing my leak or Tip of the Week to you guys live and center. So thanks everyone for joining us again today. So today we're visiting a molecule or a peptide, as we know this most of us learned about briefly and then prompted, probably ignored it. So this is called ll 37 the only human cathelicidin. So what is a Catholic citizen? These are a family of innate immune antimicrobial peptides that serve as a first line defense against infection. So in humans, the oh, there's only one Catholic ll 37 so there's no drug rep, no biological infusion center, no glossary. Bro Sher, yet somehow very clinically relevant. So LL, 37 is an innate immune antimicrobial peptide produced by neutrophils, macrophages, epithelial cells from the skin, gut and lung and individual cells. So its expression is a vitamin D dependent which immediately puts it into the real world clinical territory, unlike antibiotics. LL, 37 disrupts again, antibiotics disrupts microbial membranes, as we know, does not rely on single enzymatic targets and does not drive classic anti microbial resistance. So it's immune intelligence and not immune force. The thing here is ll 37 is compared to antibiotics, so it's actually has been in studies, been used as broad spectrum versus bacteria. Good examples for you in studies would be Staph aureus, B acidomonus E coli, even Vasomotor mitochondria and resistant Enterococcus for viruses influenza, HSV and some coronaviruses, even fungi and biofilms. So alternative to antibiotics for resistant infections, it has strong studies in vitro and vivo, and even low resistance development compared to antibiotics. Good thing about this, if your patient is using antibiotics, you can synergistically use ll 37 with your conventional antibiotic therapy. Here are the human studies so infection risk and vitamin D, Ll, 37 you et al, 2006 show that human macrophages studies with translational relevance shows that vitamin D activation increases. LL, 37 expression. It also LL, 37 has enhanced killing of mycobacterium tuberculosis, meaning vitamin D, deficiency correlates with higher infection risk because you have lower production of ll 37 another study by Yamamoto, it's actually two on 2009 finds that low ll 37 is associated with increased respiratory infections reduced levels, as seen on chronic inflammatory conditions. Again, l 37 behaves like a biomarker of immune resilience, not just a lab curiosity. Another one is skin barrier. So Hill born 2003 human skin study showed l 37 expression increases that wound edges, so meaning direct role and re epithelization In angiogenesis, so clinically relevant for anti aging, especially for skin poor wound healing and chronic ulcers. And lastly, inflammatory balance. So nigenic 2009 show that ll 37 reduces excessive cytokine signaling. It also enhances pathogen clearance without immune paralysis. So this is immune modulation, not immune suppression, an important distinction for aging patients. So human observation data suggests ll 37 helps shape microbial communities rather than sterilize them, selectively suppresses path of ions, preserves epithelial tolerance as we age. Ll 37 expression declines. Bare tissues weaken, inflammation increases. So aging isn't just accumulated damage, it's a loss of innate immune signals. So what's our takeaway? So practical message here, you don't need to buy ll 37 from the internet. So it's sold as a peptide. You're probably going to see this with your patients showing it to you in replacement or from thinking that could replace your antibiotic therapy. But this is something that is made in our system. So we store we restore the biology that makes it, optimizing vitamin D, the 80 to 80 to 160 to 100 range that we will always like in integrative medicine, addressing sleep and circadian rhythms, reducing chronic inflammatory load and support gut and Skinner, how ll seven rTMS that age x, it's on their super maybe simplify that sometimes the best immune therapy is remembering how immunity already works. Thank you. And that's your leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  22:52
A couple questions here, and I have a couple also. So one question is, are there any lab tests available for ll 37

Speaker 2  23:00
No, so you have to remember this is still research, and this being sold in the internet. So when you talk about blood test, it's always suggested, when you use these peptides, you always look at the CVC, CMP, because, of course, as you metabolize these peptides, what is the kidney doing with it? What is the liver doing with it, and also your inflammatory markers and also infection markers, right? White counts, HRT, ESR, because this the anti inflammatory parameter that you can get your LL, 37 in terms of how it's working, could be seen in those.

Bill Clearfield  23:31
How about those? You have any suggestions?

Speaker 2  23:35
Yeah, so for dosing again, I just want to make sure that we point it out. It's research, right? So 100 micrograms to 500 micrograms would be a good dosing. And how do you dose this? It's almost like your antibiotic. So it's going to be five to seven days. It's always, I always tell my patients to use it with their antibiotics regardless. But if somebody's just so natural with it, they can use it directly and again. If you are prolonged with that specific infections, there are lingering infections that you would see it requires cycling. So cycling meaning one two weeks on. If you still have that infection, you want to kill it, you have to make sure you have two weeks off and then restart it again in two weeks. There is a protocol out there that you're going to be using one gram for one dose if you really want to just blast that infection fast, and it's only going to be done one or two days the most after that, you can't because why? There are precautionary measures by using lo 37 it has not been known that it also can affect cancer, specifically female reproductive cancers, but it was helpful. Seen on studies on GI cancers like oral, stomach, colon. But that's why high doses of this really, you have to be cautious. And again, that's why where we come in as clinicians to kind of regulate this with our patients.

Bill Clearfield  24:58
Okay, another question about any, any, you know, double blind studies at all, or, you know, compared to placebo. Yeah.

Speaker 2  25:07
So the studies that are out there really are more of these are no number one, no rTMS. So these are more of what observational, a lot of animal studies in the literature. As you all know, that's where peptide where the world of peptides are lacking in RCTS, right?

Bill Clearfield  25:32
Any side effects,

Speaker 2  25:33
side effects. So the common side effects to this would be really die off. So when you, when I mentioned to you about dysbiosis, it can actually handle that. So a lot of Gi, because you're going to be giving the subcutaneous so when you have this bio, which majority of us has a lot of Gi, sub bloating, gas, diarrhea, but that's actually the peptide doing its work. And then also, when you give high doses sensitivity, like when I mentioned about the generic injectable allergic responses right on the area where you injected it, anaphylactic reaction, but very rare, though that's not common, but most of the time, it's really related to the die off response when you kill a certain microbe.

Bill Clearfield  26:19
Is it does it? Does it do in the microbiome? Like antibiotics that do

Speaker 2  26:26
so in relation to the microbiome, it's very specific for dysbiosis. So when your question is, is it going to disrupt or kill normal flora? It does not the thing here, again, unfortunately, majority of the population is dysbiotic, so there will be some die off that will be happening there.

Bill Clearfield  26:46
I don't want to be dysbiotic. Well, it's why I keep you around.

Unknown Speaker  26:54
That's why you have your gut protocols, right?

Bill Clearfield  26:56
Yeah, there you go, you know. Okay. Well, thank you so much.

Speaker 2  27:01
Well, before you start, I want to make, I want to share this story too with everyone. So everybody's going to be learning battlefield Acupuncturist today. The thing here is, before I went here to our, I guess in Arizona, I was doing every patient of mine. GV, of course, asking consent. Hey, can I practice on you before we start our consult? So I just put random needles on their ear in relation to the battlefield Acupuncturist points. I just saw every patient getting good results with it. For some reason, pain went down, anxiety went down, whatever complaint they have actually had better results with Battlefield Acupuncturist where I'm going with this is if you want something that's very easy to do to add income for basically all cash pay in terms of our practices. This is very easy to do. I even put this on patients who are doing IV therapies, and now they're asking more for it, but I was just practicing with them before I got to my test here. But again, definitely a must here, and to take notes from the master doctor bill and highly suggestive.

Bill Clearfield  28:01
Okay, there you go. Okay, thank you. So before we start, we are regular. So last week, Dr Nario, you know, mentioned battlefield Acupuncturist in his hip of the week, and there seemed to be a lot of enthusiasm for it. And I mentioned saying, Well, maybe one week, we'll, we'll, you know, we'll have an instruction on it. Our speaker this week on Friday told me she couldn't make it. So here we are. So very, very timely. So that's why you're getting me this week instead of Margaret sisters, I think is her last name. I can never pronounce it anyway. So we're going to show you a couple of different techniques. Dr narrow, not just the strict black battlefield. Acupuncturist, we're going to show you a couple of others. Okay, so we're going to show you the battlefield, but two others. So you're going to have, you know, we always want to have a little little more, more in your arsenal than just just the slideshow. Are you saying I should show off? Here you can show off. Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay. So battlefield Acupuncturist is called battlefield Acupuncturist because it was that it was Derma rated from Dr Richard Neustadt, who was a retired Air Force colonel, and he was the one who sort of put the whole protocol together. I met Dr nimzow in 1995 I was the little story first. So I was the secretary of the American Academy of Medical Acupuncturist at the time, and I I was, I was in the good graces of those in the in the know, at the AAMA at that at that time, and like with everything else, I seem to run afoul of authority figures inadvertently. But I was teaching Acupuncturist needling and Dr Neustadt was in that in the class in 1995 and in the summertime, my son was 11. My daughter was eight, I think, at the time, and we had a garden out back. And growing time in Northeast Pennsylvania is pretty short. And my son was they were going to go to camp. And they went to camp. Early in the morning, we were out watering the plants, and he comes running out. He said, Dad, dad, dad, the Air Force is on the phone. I said, the Air Force is on the phone. What are you talking about? He goes, he goes, Yeah, some Air Force guy is on the phone looking for you. And I said, I didn't do it. If I did do it, I didn't mean to do it. I said, What Air Force guy is looking for me? So I get on the phone, and the operator says, Colonel Richard Neustadt, US Air Force is, is wanting to, wanting to speak with you. This is Walter Reed Army Hospital. Okay, so he had, he had seen, seen some of my lectures and Acupuncturist lectures. And so Richard came to Wilkins Barry, and he spent a week with me. And that sort of started at one of those kind of beautiful friendships. He was a lot smarter than me. He was able to devise all of these, all of these different types of techniques, and this is one of the best, and I I use this probably almost every day in my practice. It's easy to do. It's easy to learn. I'm going to show you the technique. I hopefully I have a little bit of a video that runs about 10 minutes. Hopefully it'll it'll be it'll play on Zoom, and you'll be able to, you'll be able to see it. The best way to learn it, though, is a hands on. So we can probably, at some point, if there's enough interest, you know, get to get, get a workshop together. I you know, it'll take me an hour to show you what the points are and why we use them, and it may take me another hour or an hour to two hours to do, to do some practice. Dr Nario stated that in his glasses, there in Arizona, they got people passing out. And you know, you can get Acupuncturist, you can get needle Sher, but I can say I've been doing this since 1996 1997 I don't think I've ever had anybody have a vagal reaction from doing this. So what you're looking at here, these are the five points in the year, and I'll explain each one. I'll explain a little bit. We're going to back up and explain a little bit before we get to the points themselves. I've actually done this as a CME credit, and so we do have objectives, and we're going to talk a little bit about so one of the issues that Dr Nario mentioned, if you were on early is, you know, how does this work? And, you know, is it, you know, just kind of voodoo and whatnot. And I didn't go through everything here. That's a whole, you know, another, you know two, three hours of the you know the mechanism of action of Acupuncturist. And if you're interested in that, we can certainly do that. But I'm going to talk about the anti inflammatory nature of Acupuncturist. And this was something that I presented in 2015 to the American Academy of Medical Acupuncturist. So it's nothing new. And we did, we did studies at Penn State in the in the physiology lab, with football players. This was after Joe paternos team started to go downhill. So they weren't, they weren't quite the spotlight anymore, like that. So we'll tell you why the year, and what we'll mention briefly, Microsystems, and I'll show you, show you a few of them, not just the ear. We'll talk about indications and Contraindications. We'll talk about the technique. We'll talk about why the points are that we use. I'll show you a couple of alternatives. There's one called Acupuncturist trauma protocol ATP. It's slightly different. And then there's an original one. There's actually one that precedes the battlefield Acupuncturist, called the NADA protocol na da, and it's a national association of drug, something or other detox. That's detox. Yeah, it's detox. And that was devised in 1975 by a Dr, Michael Smith, that in a, I think it was, I think it was Lincoln Hospital in Long Island. Don't hold me to that. And so we learned that technique first, and I'll show you what that is. And so there are different variations. And then at the end, if we, you know, we should have time, we'll talk about specific disease, so, so called entities. We'll show you, we'll show you what to do with headaches. We'll show you what to do with erectile dysfunction and a couple of other things too. So some variations on the theme. Okay, here are the things, the ones that we do. So, migraine headaches, migraine headaches. This is an absolute game changer. And rarely, unless somebody's having an aneurysm or a stroke or something like that, if they're having a migraine, a menstrual migraine, this takes it away. You know, within five minutes, and I have a 90 to 95% success rate with this. Smoking cessation is a little bit harder, you know, that's, that's, you know, there's, there's some behavioral issues that go along with that. Allergy Relief is fabulous. We'll give we'll show you some insomnia techniques, vertigo and some libido and Gyn ecological issues. So for those of you who are not familiar with with Acupuncturist it came it was originally written about in ancient China. There are writings that are over 3000 years old. They use a number of what you know in the West, you know, Western physicians and doctrine areas. In his studies, he says they have traditional doctors there. You know, sort of mocking them. They use, they'll use terms like yin and yang, which is sort of the mirror image of each other, the five elements, which are the the sort of the basic building blocks of Earth. And so Yin and Yang is sort of left and right, night and day, dark, light, male, female. By the way, female is Yin and Yang is male. And you can you can classify pretty much anything, seasons of the year, times of the day, foods you can devise. In fact, I wrote a whole diet program in 1992 using the five elements and determining with the patient's strong suits and not so strong suits, and tailoring the diet, their dietary recommendations towards the which elements they were they were most compatible with. So the five elements are fire, water, earth, wood and metal. Those are the five five elements, and they all interact with each other. Some of them control each other. Some of them are helper, help with each other when you do acupuncture treatments. So for instance, a if you have like a peripheral neuropathy, let's say you have a cervical disc out and you're getting pins and needles in your left hand. So that's considered fire in the in the meridians, or the energy lines going down the going down the arm. And what you look for are the water points to put the fire out and then. And so that's obviously a simplified

Bill Clearfield  38:00
sort of explanation. And we can talk for days on how it comes about, but that's sort of a simplified explanation. So the meridians are points that are or energy lines that are similar to each other. Most everybody here has probably seen that acupuncture, you know charts, or you know models, and seeing that you know the lines that go up and down the body, there's there's paired meridians, there's balancing meridians, and there's offsetting meridians, starting in 1979 with the discovery of endorphins. Bruce Pomerance at the University of Montreal did some experiments and found that acupuncture treatment after after seven, anywhere from seven to 10 minutes will increase endorphin levels. So endorphins, as we know, especially specifically beta endorphin and so endorphins, as you know, are the most potent anti inflammatory substances that we make naturally. And those of you that use low dose naltrexone, you're actually doing pretty much the same thing. Low dose naltrexone, you know, blocks opioid receptors for anywhere from six to eight hours while the opioid receptors are blocked the our body reacts by making it beta endorphin. When the naltrexone wears off, the endorphin flood the the opioid receptors and act as a potent anti inflammatory. Well, it turns out that acupuncture treatments do pretty much the same thing, and they increase cytokines, anti inflammatory cytokines, and decrease the inflammatory cytokines. And I'll show you in a minute what which ones they are. They increase blood flow, particularly to the brain, and triple warmer three on the right for females and triple warmer left on the on for males, will increase blood flow to the brain. So pretty much any, any Acupuncturist treatment that we're doing body needles on, we want to include that in there too. So you know, everybody can use a little bit more blood flow to the brain. Triple warmer three is on the hand. That's on the back of the hand, and it's between the fourth and fifth digits, so between your ring finger and your pinky. If you slide, can you see my hand? Bill, are the slides supposed to be advancing? Yeah, they are. Oh, you should have yin and yang five elements, yeah. Okay, you see that?

Speaker 3  40:41
Yeah, that's all it, yeah, all right. Further than that, no, no.

Bill Clearfield  40:46
Between the fourth and fifth, between the ring finger and the pinky finger. If you slide your hand down to where the two bones meet, and then just rock your your your finger back and forth, you'll feel like a funny spot. It'll feel a little bit different. And that's the point, okay, and so on the back of the hand, on the dorsal, dorsal surface, okay, it increases cerebral blood flow, and it will release some anti inflammatory substances. So inflammatory marker changes at cellular level, or the kind of, you know, as we know the gold standard. I mean now that, you know, in 2015 when I, when I presented this to the acupuncture society, you know, cytokines and endorphins were, that was kind of foreign, foreign language. We've come a long way since that time, though, so pretty much your every layperson we know knows what cytokines are, since covid anyway. Okay, so these are the cytokines that acupuncture will downregulate, TNF, alpha, interleukins, 1v, 612, and 17, Interferon gamma, and then the chemical substance, substance P and Neurokinin A, and it will increase interleukins four and 10, which are the anti inflammatory cytokines. And you have the references there. There was this, doctors Freek and Zijlstra, they did these. This was done in Europe. And then you have mine, that we did at the Penn State. So, and it's, it's, at least in the Acupuncturist world, it's, this is pretty well accepted as a as as the mechanism of action of Acupuncturist input, still have to get it in the right spot. Okay, so we're going to talk about Microsystems, though we're not doing actually, on that organ, puncture channels, and you can use the scalp, the hand, in the ear, or I've never, I've never done it myself, and on some reproductive organs, but we're not going to go here. So, so this is traditional scalp Acupuncturist, and what you do is you take regular These are regular Acupuncturist needles. I always use 30 Gage, 2525 millimeter, 30 gage needles. They're wrapped. They're double wrapped by the handle with a with a smooth Sher, it creates an electrical current down the needle and into the into the into wherever you're putting the needle, so into the body. So it creates an electrical current between the two, the two metals. And it also creates a heat current between the ambient temperature, which is, say, 70 degrees or 71 degrees, and the pay that, you know, whatever the patient's body temperature is 98 98.6 and we get an increase in electrical activity with that. And with that, we get it takes it about seven, anywhere from seven to 10 minutes. We get that endorphin release, weight and cytokine activity. There are, and again, these are, these are whole courses here the we put the acupuncture needles on this along the side of the head, there are motor areas, sensory areas, voluntary movement. Those knowledgeable scalp Acupuncturist will use this for brain dysfunction, neurological issues, neurodegenerative changes, strokes are common, and there's vertigo and hearing areas that can be needled and sensory, you know, motor and sensory areas in the leg, vision and balance. So that's not the focus of what we're doing here in the front of the head. So from the Midline, it's about two Chun, which is the width of two China two finger, breaths from the Midline, we're going to see a sort of the thoracic cavity, the abdominal area and the reproductive area. These are sort of like the general and it's right on the hairline. So the point of this for tonight is we're not, certainly not going to teach you the scalp. Acupuncturist from this is that that you can project a lot of the body on to the scalp. This is another system. This is from a DR Yamamoto. And this is Yamamoto is new scalp Acupuncturist, and he mapped out areas in of the brain that it on the scalp that correspond to different areas of the of the brain. There's a side one here too. I kind of missed that so, but you can see, here's the lumbar spine. Here's the Cerebrum Cerebrum on the scalp. Acupuncturist, we use for, again, for neurodegenerative issues, heart attack, not heart strokes, and like multiple sclerosis, any type of neurological issue. This is a system just using the first metacarpal bone, and basically at the top of the bone is the head, and you just follow it all the way down at the bottom. when you, when you palpate them, either either with your your hand, or with with a probe. I'll show you a couple of different ones as we go along. We should get areas that are that are tender, and those would be the areas that you would want to, want, want to needle. This isn't one that I used very In fact, I don't use this one at all. This is a little bit more common. This is a hand Acupuncturist. And we use very tiny needles here. And so, the the, the this, this one here. This this one here. This is the anterior so this is, this is palm up, and the the lower extremities are on the thumb, and the the little finger here, and it corresponds to what you're looking at. So this would be the right this would be the right leg. This would be the left leg. This would be the right arm. This would be the left arm. This would be the anterior portion, portion of the of the of the of the body, head with here. So somebody comes in with a headache right at the top of the head. You just take your thumb and press right on the top of your of your index finger. And those of you have been around me know that I'll do this. I'll grab your hand and start start feeling around if you start complaining of something. So I've done this. I do this all the time. The internal organs are in the palm here. The spine is on on the dorsal side of the hand here, and and again, it corresponds to this one is. So this would be the left leg. This would be the right leg. This would be the left arm and the right arm. So somebody's got a hip issue here, you're going to feel around here, and you're going to find that it's going to be tender more often than not. And again, with here, we'll use, we'll use regular body needles, and we use this. These are like, these are kind of like reflexes. That's, that's, that's probably my, my best explanation, Joe, we've done this with you right the hand. Yes, Sher, have Yeah, yeah, yeah. We do this. We do this a lot. This works really well. If you're out at a bar somewhere and someone's had too much to drink and they they tell you that they feel nauseous and they're going to throw up basically right in here, right right below the middle finger and the foot and the ring finger go over the bone right, right into the into the base of your palm, there, in your base of your palm, there and feel around, and you're going to feel the liver area. That works pretty nicely. Actually, you don't really need needles for that. You can just use, you use some pressure on that. Okay, so why the year? First of all, you don't have to get undressed. It works incredibly well for acute and chronic pain syndromes. You can use it as a standalone or whole body, and due to its innervation and Vasomotor supply, the external auricle maps of pictorial representation of an inverted body or an inverted fetus. That's the way it was originally described. You can scan the ear with a probe or a battery operated resistance device, and it'll identify areas that correspond to areas that have trauma. So Dr Paul no Sher was a French physician, and in 1956 I guess there was a in the early 50s, there was a large influx of Chinese nationals into France, and he had a large Chinese

Bill Clearfield  50:06
practice. And they brought, of course, with them the folk medicine treatments. And what they would do is they would they would take a they would take a needle or even a little knife, and they would light it, and they would scar different areas in the ear. And when they would scar the areas in the ear, they would get relief of whatever maladies. That was the whole idea. Anyway, they were getting relief of the maladies, and it wouldn't come back. Of course, you know, they're a little bit hardier than we are. You know, they would, you know, taking a hot poker and putting it in your ear to get rid of pain. I don't know how many of us are going to want to do that, but that was the beginning of it. And then he just did, just kind of did experiments on his own, you know, just trial and error, and he sort of mapped out the whole body in the ear. It kind of makes sense. If you look at the Innervation of the of the ear, of the auricle, it's innervated via, you know, the Auricular branch of the 10th cranial nerve, the Auricular temporal branch of the third, the third area, or the third branch of the fifth cranial nerve. And the great Auricular nerve comes from c2 and c3 and then it's, it's, you know, richly vasomotorized Also the posterior Auricular artery, the superficial temporal artery and sympathetic Plexus of the external carotid artery, all innervate the ear and so, so there's, there's, there's good data on changing the electrical activity of the of the body by stimulating the ear, changing circulation, and stimulating and dampening down nerve tissue. This was Dr Nogier first sort of drawing that, that he, that he came out with. And the whole idea here is that in the ear, what you're looking at is an upside down and he called it an upside down fetus. Actually, I don't know if this one really looks like a fetus, but, but so in the in the new auricle here is, is the head, the the sort of the concha here is the cervical spine, the dorsal spine, and or the thoracic spine and the lumbar spine. Here. Did I miss one? I think I missed one here, and then the arm is here and the legs are here. And so it just basically, it's an upside down person. I'm going to go back to this sort of pristine picture here. And so this is the head. This is sort of your your your backbone, your arms are here, your legs are here, and the internal organs are here.

Bill Clearfield  53:06
Okay, this was advanced a little bit by Dr Nader Solomon, who's another colleague of mine, and he came up with the idea of the upside down fetus was just the acute phase, because sometimes, as Dr Nario said, they were putting needles in and getting results, even though it wasn't in the So called designated areas. So there's two, there's three different phases, so there's a degenerative phase and a chronic phase also. And you can see that the the areas where the innervations are a little bit different. This is kind of an advanced plan. I mean, it took me a good three to five years to really get comfortable with it, with the basic plan, and I pretty much stick with that. But you can, you might be able to, you can find this as three different phases. This is a little bit more sophisticated picture of that. And again, here, here's the here's the head, here's the spine, here's the arms and the legs, and then the internal organs are here. They kind of morph a little bit in these other phases here, for our purposes, I wouldn't really worry about that too much. I showed you this already, and I showed you the the hand already also, and the scalp. I don't know why I have that twice, but there we go. Diagnosis. So one of the one of the one of the the, if you to be more precise, as we do abdominal diagnosis. And the abdominal diagnosis, we start here at the Umbilicus, and we go under the rib cage and the the the organs when they when they have pressure and pain, are correspond to these areas here, so just above the Umbilicus, on on the and so remember, this is left, this is right. So this is the liver here, on either side, small intestine, large intestine, below the Umbilicus and the bladder and kidneys, spleen and the don't remember what P stands for. This is the heart here in the center, and these are the head and neck organs here. Here's Dr Niemtzow. Unfortunately, he passed away about a year and a half ago from prostate cancer. It was kind of a big loss. He was, he was the the he took over for me and really made the journal a sort of a mainstay. And he was, he was well known internationally for for his work here. And he was a great friend. He was, he was a good guy. And he stood by, he stood by me. Went through, through our trials and tribulations, and he brought this, this actual, this technique, to the Air Force, and the Air Force now teaches us to their medics. This is part of the standard the medic training that they take these Acupuncturist these little needles. I'll show you what they look like in a minute. They have them in their pocket in the field, and somebody gets hurt. That's what, you know. I mean, they're bleeding, they're, you know, that's one thing, but for shock and trauma and for agitation panic attacks, there's nothing better than this. No no medication, five needles or on each side to maximum, the needles cost 50 cents a piece. So five bucks for, you know, treatment, you know, the cost of the supplies, and it, you know, it was, it's, you can do it, and you can do it in two minutes, when you, when you, when you have the technique down. You know, they don't have to disrobing. And they actually look, you saw, I know, if you saw Dr Nario has a couple of news. They actually look pretty cool. Indications, Acupuncturist pain syndromes. Somebody comes into your office, they pulled their back and, you know, obviously, if they have disc herniations and they can't feel their legs, that's one thing. But you know, you know, muscle strain, you're gonna, you're gonna, you're gonna get relief. You know, almost immediately migraine headaches. And we rarely, we rarely have somebody that leaves without without relief from the migraine headaches. And a little point tip here, we give them some progesterone cream to put on their temples and back of their neck. Also the 5% progesterone cream, and do our battlefield Acupuncturist, and we're golden PTSD, depression, anxiety, dress induced apathy, insomnia, pre and post, operative pain and pre and post, you know, operative stress or fright and any type of sports injury, we're good to Go. Is, I'm not really sure why. I mean pregnancy, you know, you stick a needle in the outer part of your ear, they go into premature labor. It's your fault. So, you know, unless you're really pressed, I would probably stay away from from pregnant women leading disorders. And we've had people on, on, you know, any, any coagulants and Warfarin and Eliquis and all of those, and we don't really get bleeding. But, you know, this is one of the, one of the Contraindications. Some people don't like needles, and aversion to needles, and some, you know, again, Dr narius says that they're getting vasovagal responses in his training there. I don't know why. Like I said, I've been doing this since, since the mid 90s. I can't think of any any patient that's got a vasovagal RAA reaction, reaction from this. So maybe they're not doing them right, or they're forcing them too hard. I've never had an infected site. Every once in a while, they'll get a bit of irritation and redness. What we do is we just have somebody where, if they come to the office, we just take the tweezers and pluck it and it comes out. And for the Air Force active flight duty, it was a contraindication, and there really wasn't a reason for it. It just just, it just, was just, is. These are the needles. They come from their French the needle itself is just this. Here you can see how tiny it is. This is the inserter. So if you put it right, right at the point, and just push it in, and it sort of pops, and the needle pops into into place, and the inserter we toss into the can, if we're doing all 10 points, if we get a seven, seven out of 10 into the into the trash with, you know, without missing with, it's a good take. I don't know why that is, but that seems to be the reason for it. So ASP needles, I guess I can talk. And Dr holast is having trouble with the CME credits, so I don't think we're CME credits this this week again, he said, by the end of the month, they should be back. So we get these from OMS lahasa, OMS, L, H, A, S, A, they're out of Toronto. I think it costs us for two paces of this, it costs us $207 so it's about you get about 400 needles. So it's about 50 cents a needle. They're pretty inexpensive. These are the five points. And we go in order, and they're designated Cingulate, Gyrus Thalamus. Then we go omega two. Sher men, point zero. We go in that order. And we also go in in order. We start on the dominant hand side, so if your patient is right handed, we start on the right side, and we'll start at the Cingulate Gyrus on the right. Then we go to the Cingulate Gyrus on the left, then we go to the Thalamus on the left, then the Thalamus on the right, then the omega two on the right, and the omega two on the left. Then we do the Shen Men on the left, Sher men on the right, point zero on the right, and point zero on the left, and we do it that way. It doesn't seem to work as well if you just put them all in on one side and then put them all in on the other side. And someone, I've been asked this a number of times, why? And I'm going to tell you, I'm going to give you a Fiddler on the Roof answer. If you remember that Fiddler on the Roof, the answer is, I don't know, but it doesn't work as well. If you don't, if you don't do it in that order, here's the order. So we have it. You have the order there. So if they're left hand dominant, so you'll left, Cingulate GYRUS right. Cingulate that GYRUS right, Thalamus left. Thalamus left. Omega, right, omega, right. Point Zero, left. Point Zero, left. Sherman, right, Sherman. These two are interchangeable. You can do either one. So this is the Cingulate GYRUS. This is where it is. It's right, just basically where the ear meets. You know, the brain, the jaw line right there. It's right at this junction right here. And that's your first point. You need to, like I said, the first, the dominant hand, side first, and alternate. This is a sedation point. It's for relaxation, anxiety, stress reduction, and it can help reduce high blood pressure. Okay, that's this is the so Cingulate GYRUS. Is the sedation point

Bill Clearfield  1:03:00
the Thalamus, which is under this little lip right here, in the ear right here. This is probably your most important point for pain, and a lot of times we'll just need to do the two. So the Cingulate, GYRUS and the Thalamus the patient comes in especially acute pain. We usually stop right there and have the move around and see if the pain is gone. If it's gone, we don't need to go any further, if it's somewhat better, but they we need more than we keep going. But this is probably the most important point here, and this is the point for pain. Okay, it includes the Thalamus and hypothalamus. It pre Amplifies signals to the cerebral cortex. It eliminates meaningless background noise. It's the highest level of the supraspinal gate control system, so that the gate system of pain control it. We use this for pain disorders and acute and chronic, and for Auricular Analgesia, this is your major pain point, also for things like Neurasthenia, which Neurasthenia, you know, we call adrenal fatigue these days, anxiety, depression meant, you know, mental illness, sweating over, excitement, shock, trauma, Raynaud's phenomena, gastritis, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, GI symptoms, liver and gallbladder issues. It strengthens the brain and calms the mind. Like I said, this is your most important point, omega two. This is basically an allergy point, and you have to feel it along here. I'll show you what a probe looks like. You can actually use your hand or finger or your fingernail, and what you're going to do is it's in this area here. It doesn't necessarily have to be here. It's usually at the curve here on the upper helix, the upper part of the helix of the ear here. And this is an allergy point. What you do is, you feel along here. You find the spot that's most tender. So any of the anyone out there who's got allergies, if you feel at the top of your ear around there, and you'll feel one spot that'll that'll feel a little bit more tender and a little bit more it'll be a little bit more sore. That's the spot that you want to use. And again, we pop that needle right in there. We do new body needles, also, if we're doing a whole body treatment, and then take those needles out and we send the patient home with the little ASP needles. Reduces inflammatory reactions. It's for allergies, inflammation, arthritis, asthma, elimination of toxins, Excretion of metabolic waste, and it can help relieve anaphylactic shock. Point Zero is right dead center in the ear. I always call it the bone. If you go right in the center, center of the ear there, you'll feel a really hard spot. And that's, that's, that's point zero. Allegedly, remember, this is an upside down fetus. Allegedly, this is where the umbilical cord was attached from the mother to the to the baby. That's this point. Point here. This is a balancing point. It's the geographical center of the whole auricle. It creates balance and homeostasis. It balances energies, hormones and brain activity. It's located where the umbilical cord rises the inverted in from the inverted fetus pattern. It serves as the autonomic brain, and it helps control visceral organs. And then this is Shen Men. Sher min translates a spirit's gate. Um. This deals with all sorts of Psychologic and psychiatric issues. It Tranquilizes the mind. Allows a harmonious connection to essential spirit. So some of these, some of the flowery language, is from, you know, translation from, from the ancient Chinese. That's where, that's where some of this language comes from. It Alleviates stress, pain, tension, anxiety, depression, insomnia, restlessness and excessive sensitivity. It's a universal point for Auricular Analgesia. Remember with the other one that we had drug and alcohol detox, and it's good for coughs, fevers, inflammatory diseases, anaphylactic, any type of any type of inflammation, any type of allergic type reaction, no, sorry, this is any type of mental issues. Sorry. So here's the five points again. We start with the Thalamus, we start with the Cingulate GYRUS. We go to the Thalmus, then we go to omega two, and then you can interchange it. You can go either do Shenmen and point zero or point zero and Shenmen, those two don't matter. You can go in either order there. Okay, but you have to go in the right order again. You start with the dominant hand side and go from side to side. This is another technique. This is called Auricular trauma protocol. It's similar. You can see some of the points are similar. There's a couple of extra ones. So there's six points here instead of five on each year. Point Zero is the same. Shenmen is the same. This one's called Master Cerebrum. Point over here is where the thing you like GYRUS is. So that's pretty close. So there's two needles here, and the Amygdala there. And then this is the Hippocampus. This is where the that the pain point was, so the Thalmus on the other version of it. So, so these are, these are similar, but have a couple of extra points. You may come across these the battlefield Acupuncturist, the one that sort of took hold. This was another technique. So the Hypothalamus is located on the floor of the inferior the Contra medial to the inner trade. Tragic, tragic. Not so this. This is we're talking about this one right here. It stimulates Parasympathetic functions. It comes and centers and focuses decision making and anxiety. It triggers the HPA axis, so deals again with adrenal fatigue and attention, vigilance and arrhythmias. All the Amygdala zone is located just inferior and slightly posterior to the intertrog, inner choke, tragic, not on the fleshy part of the lobe, not overlying the cartilage. So again, it's a little bit anterior to where this is. This was what we called the Thalamus in the battlefield Acupuncturist technique. So this is another sort of a point in between. Okay? It Modulates irritability, anger, fear and aggression. The Hippocampus is just inferior to the cartilage of the antitragus, or the fleshy part of the lower ear. So Hippocampus is here. So this is our Thalmus in the battlefield technique. It influences memory and encodes and retain. Retention of emotional experiences is an important for memory and concentration. See, six, what's that?

Unknown Speaker  1:10:36
Sorry, no, I muted her. I

Bill Clearfield  1:10:38
muted her. Okay, Master Cerebrum was found on the anterior aspect of the lobe where it is attached to the face. So master Cerebrum is here, and this is pretty close to what we call the Cingulate GYRUS. So they're pretty much Dr Bill.

Speaker 2  1:10:57
Dr Bill request. You're going a little too fast, so can I slow it down a little bit? So they want to follow you. There's some it was a comment by Dr James, he wanted to follow you, talking a little too fast, all right, but go ahead. Go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:16
Go ahead. Okay, so, so this is, this is a little bit different than the battlefield Acupuncturist. The only reason I put this in here is I wanted to show you that there was, you know, there were, there were other other, other ways to go, but I think we should just concentrate on, you know, you know, the one that you know is sort of our main focus here. Okay, okay, so the Amygdala is right here, and it's, it's, it's sort of between the Cingulate GYRUS and the Hippocampus. It's sort of an extra, extra point, right there. Okay, Master Cerebrum is similar to the Cingulate GYRUS, and we talked about that influences psychosomatic psychosomatic disorders, reflex zone for the limbic system, so memory, emotions and prefrontal cortex. When we've done this technique, we've done all of the points I've not stopped after two or three. I'm much more familiar with the other ones. And then point zero and Shenmen are pretty much the same. Show you again where they are. So point zero is, is I call this a bone. I know there's, I know there's a term for it, and somebody helped me with it, but it's if you put your finger right in the center of your ear, you'll you'll feel it. You'll feel a hard spot. That's it. The internal organs are in here, and then Shenmen is in this Concha here, right here.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:07
Okay, so here are the here are your five points. We're back to the battlefield. Acupuncturist, 12345, or four, five. This is a functional MRI before and after. And as you can see, we've got a dampening down of the activity in the brain. That's the whole point of this here. Here's, here's a couple of more. This is patient had pain in the hand. And as you can see, the the befores and afters are, there's, there's a nice difference between them. And then over here, also you can see it's almost completely gone. And this is after they take these shots, about eight to 10 minutes into the treatment. If you've never had Acupuncturist, you'll know, or if you have had Acupuncturist, you'll know that usually, within eight to 10 minutes you get this sort of relief. You get a calming effect. That's when the endorphins start to take hold, and that's when we get, you know, this is where we get our pain relief from. Here's here's another one. This is the Cerebellum with pain in the fingers. Not quite as impressive, but over here you can see that there is a decrease in the in the activity, you know, with after, after needling, okay, and here again, these are all functional MRIs that was showing decreased activity associated with decreased pain in the brain. So we have some, you know, objective findings here. The needles were removed. This, these, these pictures were taken about 30 minutes after the needles were removed. And as you can see, that they at this point, they're still holding in this those, those pictures came from this study here, Battlefield Acupuncturist spectroscopic Miniaturized computer triggered electrical stimulation of the Battlefield Acupuncturist points, and it was published in 2011 This is oxygenation of the brain with the battlefield Acupuncturist. And as you can see here, we get quite a good uptake in oxygen from after treatment has begun. These are patient charts that we we sort of curated. We just took about seven or eight of them in a row. And as you can see, patients four weeks sciatica, low back pain, initially at 10 out of 10, and left the clinic at one out of 10. And it three days on a follow up. This one sort of recurred. I think this patient had had a herniated disc at C, at the l5, s1, with nerve root involvement. And so it will come back if there's, you know, severe, you know, severe pathology. Here's a shoulder bursitis. Seven out of 10 went to zero out of 10 within 30 minutes, 10 days later, you just had some slight recurrence of pain, elbow pain. You can see just go up and down. You can see that we get quite good results. And again, these are not, you know, the gold standard studies, but these were our patients, and we see it, we see quite a good, good response, especially initially. We can repeat the course you can do. Usually, we'll do it twice a week, if we're getting some good results from it, and usually no more than three to four weeks. So you know, if they're still having a lot of pain, we'll need to use some other techniques. So this is for mostly acute pain, acute shock, acute trauma. We do get some long term effects when we when we repeat the treatments, and they're easy to do. They don't take long. They're inexpensive. I mean, we charge $40 I mean, you know where you're going to get what are you going to we're going to go for $40 they probably could charge more. Okay, the needles. You can carry them in your pocket. They come individually wrapped. They're sterile. You just you. All you need is all we what we do use is a alcohol wipe. We wipe the ear and then pop them in, okay? And like I said, I don't know what technique they're using. My experiences is that if you're getting a lot of vasovagal reactions, you're probably not doing it right and probably sort of unnecessarily manipulating, you know, the tissues. That seems to be the the culprit there. I mean, you do get some patients that, you know we have, we have one in our practice. He gets phlebotomies Every, every six to eight weeks, and he's had a couple of vasovagal reactions after we we've taken the needle out so, so it can happen, but it's not. It's not a common occurrence, at least not in our hands. This was reported. This is Dr Niemtzow 's papers. 80% response rate pain relief will last for two to four days. When I lived in Pennsylvania, the needles would stay in for anywhere from 24 to 36 hours. They would come out in a day, day and a half. Now that I live on the West Coast, I must be humidity. It's the only thing I can think of. Although we're we are up a little bit higher, but the lead the needles last anywhere from three to 10 days. That's our experience here, usually at least five to seven before they start to come out. Rarely, we have somebody's got some irritation in the ear, and like I said, if they have a needle that's irritating and have somebody take a tweezers and just pluck it, it'll come out. The needles don't go into the ear canal. We've never had any issue with that. We've never had a problem with pets eating eat, you know, finding, I mean, they're so small most of the time you won't find them anyway if they fall in the carpet or whatnot. This is how the inserter is used to insert the needle again. This is point zero. Here's the Shenmen. This is a back, back point, so a lumbar point. So this is not, this is sort of an off point here. That's the that's the inserter here. There's a needle here. They do have a magnet on the back. And theoretically you should be able to put the put the back of the inserter next to the needle, and pull it out that way. But I did, those magnets aren't really strong enough, so you're better off just taking a little, little tweezers and plucking it again. You know, warnings, like everything else, make sure you know what you're doing, you know, do a history, you know, make sure you have a clinical exam. You know, you don't want anybody who's got the, you know, fulminate, fulminating pulmonary and demon. We're going to stick needles in their hair and send them home. You don't want to treat any undiagnosed pain. Make sure you pick your patients appropriately. We have an informed consent. Clean the ear. We just use an alcohol wipe. We have the patient sitting up, you know, on an exam table so they're sort of eye level with me. Make sure you start at the dominant ear. The needles that we use are gold, gold plated. They do some silver and titanium. And sometimes, if you have patients that don't respond like the way you want to, we've put in one, two needles, three needles in this next to each other, and if you use dissimilar metals, you'll get a response that way. Make sure that you have them walk around after you put the needles in, that they're not going to get lightheaded and dizzy, reassess the pain level afterwards, and basically tell the patients, leave the needles alone. Don't Don't rub them, don't pull on them. And usually they'll forget that they're there. Thing is, you don't want the cat, you know, scratching at it. You don't want kids pulling at it. These are the So, this is a, this is a body needle here. And the the difference between, say, an acupuncture needle and like a hypothermic needle, is that you have this slender shaft here, and then you have this sort of wrap shift here. Sometimes they'll be they'll some companies will make it plastic. But what you get is you get an electrical current between the two needles. You also get, like I mentioned earlier, you get a temperature current between the atmosphere that the the needle is in. So it's 70 degrees in your clinic room, and then in the patient's body. It takes, again, about seven to eight minutes for the for the heat to equilibrate and to set up that, that that heat gradient. These are ear probes here.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:31
So this one is spring loaded, so you can push it in and it'll, you know, it'll sort of give it a little bit. And what we're looking for is those tender, tender points. So I showed you that generally where the points are, but you have to find them exactly. So you can use this as an ear probe, or this. This one does not have a not spring loaded. It's sort of fixed. These are pretty cheap. These are 2025, bucks. And again, you can get it from that acupuncture supply house. This is a laser that we tried using. I, quite frankly, I never had, I never really liked the cold lasers. But this is a cold laser, and we're doing, you know, treatment on two points at once. And I didn't, I never had real good, good success with this. But there are some that claim that they do. This is another laser, again, cold lasers. What to do if you don't get a response, make sure you finish the sequence. You know, make sure you put on five needles on each side. You can do a linear placement with alternating gold and silver needles, or gold silver and titanium needles, so you get, you know, three, three different types of needles. I rarely use the silver needles. I haven't used the titanium needles in years. I could probably count on one hand and have fingers left over when I've done more than one needle at a point at a time. I'll show you what that looks like here in sub here. So what we're talking about is, instead of the one needle here. This is your THALAMUS. The point, this is your most important pain point. What we're doing is we put four needles here. So it's silver, gold, silver, gold, and so you get a gradient between the two metals. Also, here's four needles here, there's looks like two here, two here. This was somebody who didn't respond right away, the way we wanted them to. Migraine headaches are a little bit different. We're going to use some body needles, or we're going to use something called the endpoint this one, this point was found sort of accidentally, but it seems to work quite nicely. So we're going to use our Shenmen Point Zero and omega two needles Bilaterally, and then we're going to take another needle. So here is your omega two needle. Here we're going to take another needle and go behind that needle. Sorry about that. Here is the Omega needle here. And then you're going to take this needle, go straight behind it, and put it right into the into the scalp here. And this works really well for some headaches. So these are body needles. And so you finish, then what you'll do is you finish the rest of the needles here. Leave these in for about 20 minutes, and then we'll use our the little, tiny ones in the five points on each side, like I showed you before. But this seems to help quite a bit. This is sort of an extra point right here. This is, again, this is where that omega is, and then you go behind it here and into the scalp. Smoking moderately successful here. I don't use this as a standalone. It's not. I've not found it to be strong enough. Again, the first, most important thing is the patients have to want to stop smoking. If they don't want to stop smoking. Nothing we're going to do is going to work. So again, Shenmen point zero. And then there's a couple of extra points. There's lung points and anti nicotine point. And then one called T Mie, I'll show you what those are. So here's your Shenmen. Again, remember I told you the concha was, was the was the organs. So again, you're going to use your probe, that little, little metal thing, and you're going to poke around here till you find the tender points. There's, here's long one, long two. You may find both. You may only find one. You may find one just in between here in front of the the auricle, is the nicotine point. So we're going to use that one here. So Shenmen, the two lung points, the nicotine point, and then TME is a 45 degree angle from from each nostril here, about about halfway down in the philtrum. Well, I have this picture here. So this is called TME. This is TME one. There's another one, TME two, that's on the wrist here, on the thumb side of the wrist. And you'll feel here. There's a tenderness there. And again, where did these come from? These came from from, pretty much from trial and error. So I'm going to go back to TME though, going to show you we were talking those of you who heard heard us. Heard Mie early on. So the alarm point conception, vessel 26 somebody passes out, somebody, somebody's coding. This is one of the alarm points here, and it's a third of the way down right the dead center for in the philtrum right here. If you don't have time to grab needles, use your thumb. Use your use your fingernail. But you want to get some some some sort of stimulation right in here. The other point is kidney one, which is at the base of the foot on the on the dorsum of the the planter surface of the foot straight down between the second and third toes. You go over the over the ball of the foot, when you get to the sort of soft fleshy part. That's kidney one. So this one and kidney one are your lower points. This is TME two. And this is, this is the, not a protocol. So this is a third the protocol, ear protocol, and this deals with addictions. This was the one that I mentioned earlier, that came from Lincoln Hospital in Long Island. And these were adjunct treatments for drug and alcohol addiction. So the patients would come in an hour before they were assigned whatever, whatever medical clinic, you know, conventional medical treatment. And they would have these needles, needles put in their ear. And then they would sit there, and they would have their their regular treatments, whatever that, whatever it was with the needles in their ear, patients got about a 15 to 20% acceleration in the in the in the in the program to get them off of the off of the substances they were using so they use again. So remember the omega two point here for allergies, is about here. This is a little bit more forward facing. It's called a sympathetic point. Shenmen is here, same one. This is point zero here, KIDNEY LIVER is in the concha here. So again, you have to use that point finder or probe and find the tender spot here, the lung points here, we saw them a little bit earlier, or here, and then there's a kidney point here again. Remember, this is an upside down fetus. So your lungs are here, your liver is here, your kidneys are here, the reproductive organs are up here. Smoking two treatments a week, 30 minutes a piece, four treatments total, and we start slowly weaning them, and by the second or third treatment. We want the patients to stop smoking completely appetite control. So binge eating, and so we have an appetite control and then Shenmen and point zero, we've we've showed you those before you can treat this for 15 minutes only. So the appetite control, again, is in front of the concha here. Point Zero is here. We've had some patients actually get, get a piercing here with a ring through the through the the tissue here. And Shinmen, again, this is, this is an adjunct that we'll use, you know, for weight control. This is not sort of a standalone 14 to 28 day. We have a detox diet. We'll we'll use a keto diet. We'll use a paleo diet. If they're, if they're hypothyroid, or they're, they have gluten sensitivities. We'll use a gluten free diet. Mediterranean. We'll use gluten free Mediterranean, you know, whatever, whatever we'll work with. It will paleo diet. We like glutathione injections, IV. Usually we do about anywhere from 600 to 1200 milligrams IV. And we do it as a push over not even five minutes. We'll do a B 12, and with multivitamin. And the B 12 we use is methylcobalamin. We don't use a cyanocobalamin. We'll use AIP K, which is a metabolic it increases metabolic rate. Use two of those in the morning with on an empty stomach. You get them from life extension. And they're pretty inexpensive. They're quite helpful. D phenylalanine is a detox agent that's that's been used for a long time. Use about one gram a day in it's been used for detox for a long time. We can use this, especially with, you know, AIP, food addictions and food cravings.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:20
Calocurb and AMPK are the newer ones now. Calocurb is an oral sort of GLP one. It's an over the counter AMPK, I just mentioned that it increases metabolism. We use that on an empty stomach, two daily first thing in the morning on an empty stomach. Then we use Calocurb. Use one a day for two days to see if they can tolerate it. If they do tolerate it, then use two of them an hour before their two biggest meals. We use if they have any nausea or GI issues with them or the glps. We like fresh ginger. We use ginger tea. We like we like the pickled ginger the supermarkets in our area will carry, carries the pickle ginger. They'll sell them as pretty inexpensive. We have the patients chew on the on the on the pickle ginger while they're doing their injections. And it seems that we are discontinuation rate is less than 1% and we do mini doses also, we were so successful. I'm going to brag here. We've been named the best weight loss clinic in North in Northern Nevada, two years running now by the best of Sierra Nevada magazine. And we were so successful that I got my cease and desist from Novo Nordisk a couple of weeks ago for using the compounded semi glutite, you know, crime of the century. Phenylalanine, you know, is long term, you know, sort of stimulant that's been used for appetite control. I work with a national clinic called absolutely thin, and they have a protocol with phenylalanine, 37.5 milligrams, and Prozac, flu, oxytene 10 milligrams. And they marry that with a diet. We've been doing that for quite a long time. It's moderately successful. There's some prescription medications once has low dose, it should be naltrexone, not Naloxone and buperone, contrary, but I think is the brand name green jacket. We don't get ephedra anymore, so I should take that out. For sweet tooth, we prescribe apple cider vinegar, and we want the straight one. You know, there's a lot of apple cider vinegar is now they have honey in them. They're orange, they're raspberry. They have all sorts of additives in them. You don't want that. You want the straight stuff. We get two tablespoons and six ounces of water. And if they have a they're having a cravings or a sweet tooth, we have them drink that. That seems to work quite well. Gymneal Sylvestre is a one of the one of the sort of remedies that we use in combination for blood sugar elevation, and it has a some effect against sweet Sweet Tooth there, since I'm we're probably not going to have the CME. We like synergy, C, I N, N, E, R, gy by numeca. We give the patients, two of them twice a day. Another tip. I'll give you another tip. When the patients are finished with the glps, to prevent them, to help them from from regaining the weight, we give them Berberine. Berberine, lately, been using dihydroberine, 500 milligrams, two in the morning, two at night, and resveratrol, 100 milligrams daily. And that they're not going to lose weight with that, but that helps them from regaining it. This one is allergies, so you don't have to use all of these points. But again, omega two, from our protocol, is good. Antihistamine point here is that the top of the concha here, Shenmen is here, and your point zero here, you can throw in a lung if they're having lung issues here. But usually these four is enough. The those are the those, those are the the that was ASP needles. We will take an intra Derma needle and slide it in in the concha here, and tape it in and leave it in for 21 days. This is it's labeled lungs. It's not labeled on here's a lung. Adom anaphylactic. And I think I'm going to show you some results of that. The intro to Derma medo is in the liver porn me for two to 21 days. And what we do is we take it in, if the renetoesa to go and we put a piece of tape under the under the head of the of the Intradermal needle, and on top of it, it's called a sort of a pillow and blanket. And it seals the seals the needle in. And when you the only, the only way to get when, if you pull the pull on the on the tape, it'll come out. It won't go in them. The liver is the Nidus of allergies here, and so the liver point will has some activity against mast cells, food allergies, and even some Immunosuppressive drugs. So this is the area here. This is the needle. We'll take a tweezers and we'll take a alcohol wipe, and we'll take this needle here, we'll hold the needle with with the needle holder here, and then we'll slide it in, just under the skin, and then we'll paste in, we'll tape in, we'll tape it in.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:10
We'll will tape it in. It has to stay in 21 days, though, which is a long time, admittedly. But if it does that, that's, that's sort of your washout period. This was from Dr Solomon's work on on this technique. And he says by by week three, he's got, again, I got to take his word for it. This is what, this is what he's reported, insomnia. So I'm going to show you actually a body point that works very nicely for insomnia. Again, there's a lot of lot of needles here. This one right here at the on the outside of the concha is, is one of the main ones are CINGULATE, Gyrus or Thalmus. Here are the are the other main points. You can use any one of these other ones here. But those are the, those are the four that I use. And you start with the insomnia one and two, or one and two, one or two, which is here and here, and then add in these other ones. But the one that I want to show you, the one that I use all the time, is called spleen 3.5 and this is on the foot. We'll take a press tag. So this is a piece of tape with a little tiny needle, and we just paste it right on, right up, right on the foot. It's, it's, I'll show you where it is here. It's actually not, not an official Acupuncturist point. It's, it's a, it's a point that came from the Japanese Acupuncturist and it's if you on the side of the foot here. I'm sorry this was the best picture I could get, unfortunately, so on the inside of the the head of the first metatarsal, that's spleen three. On the inside of the navicular bone, is spleen four, and your spleen 3.5 is in between the two, right in the center of the foot, on the side of the foot. If you run your finger Sher and you'll find that hole. If the patients have insomnia, this will be extremely tender. Any you out there in TV land, if you haven't having sleeping problems, try it right now, and you'll find that it's extremely tender. We need all this as part of our the the with the ear points. And we have very good results with this. So these are explanations of where the spleen three and spleen four are a vertigo this. This one we so remember, this is the THALAMUS point. Here we go in vertically. This is we go in perpendicularly. We go straight down, right at the top here. And you can use an ASP needle here also. And then Shenmen Point Zero libido. Of course we wouldn't have a which wouldn't be a discussion if we didn't discuss libido. And so we have

Bill Clearfield  1:41:18
the sexual desire, or libido point is in front of the concha, the ear canal right here. And then you can also turn it off over here on the anti helix. So, so turn it on, turn it off, and then Shenmen and point zero, and then erectile dysfunction, pretty much just along the point zero, the line right here. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:52
I spelled it wrong this. This was from my talk last year on on Acupuncturist and hormone optimization, and I just threw these in for you, just so if you were interested, if you do know some Acupuncturist points, here's a couple of tips here on how to get things, things going, menopausal issues, so, so the external genitalia is here. Oxy Putz is here, Shenmen again is here. And so external genitalia. There's a couple of different points. There's one here, one here, one here. So just again, use your probe or use your finger. Run your finger along the the helix here and where it's tender, that's where we're going to needle. I think one more that I don't have is under the helix here, for parietals, for itching. If you patient comes in and they have itching for whatever reason, and again, I mean, if they have liver issues and whatnot, it's only going to be temporary. You put the needle under the helix here, again, run your finger along under the helix here. Run your thumb. You'll follow a tender spot. That's the point you put the needle. Here's that spleen 3.5 that's a little bit better see that here. So here's the head of the metatarsal. Here's the navigular bone and halfway in between. Okay, so battlefield Acupuncturist is, it's, it's cheap, it's, it's fast. You really have have to work at it to run into trouble. It works really nicely. It's a nice adjunct. And if it doesn't work, I mean, you really what? You really haven't lost a whole lot. So no good. Derma de goes Unturned on this. This, this quote from Nicholas Klein. It was about Gandhi. First they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they make fun of then they mock you, then they want to burn you, and then they build a monument to you. And so, thinking that it was the you know, Bill and end all. So again, the late 90s, this was developed Dr Niemtzow brought it to the Air Force in 2001 and in Forbes magazine has every year the worst Quackery. And so the worst Quackery of 2011 was battlefield Acupuncturist. And this was, this is how they write it. The Czar practice, invented just 10 years ago, offers a trifecta of ills. It offers no medical benefit, carries a real risk of harm. The US government is wasting 10s of millions of dollars on it and plans to increase spending next year. The doctor, no competent doctor, would do the sticks needles into the patient's ears to relieve pain. Yes, that's right, needles in here. And so here's the link, if you want to read the rest of it yourself. And so, you know, it went from this to being, you know, a standard practice that every, every medic in the Air Force. This is required knowledge. Here are the references. And went longer than I thought. Okay, any questions?

Speaker 2  1:45:13
Dr Nair, you want me to read the you want me to read the chat? For you, sure? Dr Bill, I want to introduce Dr olive here, who's also doing the acupuncture, I guess. Andrew Weil, course, that we have here, so she was actually my partner.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:34
So there you go. Okay, so it's a little hard, at least for me, it's a little hard to see. Can you point out to where they are? Dr neuras, yeah.

Speaker 2  1:45:46
So it's hard too. It's kind of little dark here, but we did the acupuncture points. So yeah, the Shenmen, the kidney, the liver and the lung and sympathetic. So meaning, well, I just, I invited her over, because this is just in time for a lecture, and you're also doing it. And we experienced so many things here about, I guess, the effects of Battlefield acupuncture in our CO fellows. So I was just telling you that story a while ago. But yeah, we we

Bill Clearfield  1:46:22
kind of just a bunch of wimps.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:28
No, but Yeah, can you Sher experience?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:31
You've seen me do it, Doctor Nario in the clinic. I mean, you ever see anybody pass out?

Speaker 2  1:46:36
Never, no, no. Also, Doctor olive will just tell her experience real quick.

Speaker 4  1:46:40
Yeah, yeah. It was very relaxing. And I don't know what else, some of the points were tender, and I think those corresponded to different parts of my body that were tight things. But we had one fellow who got very nauseous after and she had to take all of her seeds off. So it does affect different people differently.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:12
Oh, yeah. I mean, certainly does. I mean, we've had, we've had, you know, a few, usually it's the professionals. Are the ones that are the biggest Wim. So doctors are the worst, right? Well, yeah, well, I never had a truck driver pass out, from, from, from one of those.

Speaker 2  1:47:30
Well, Dr Olivier worked in the underserved of Minnesota. She's a primary care doctor, so this is something that probably she can put in her toolbox for her patients.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:39
It's pretty easy now, the needles that she has in are not battlefield Acupuncturist points.

Speaker 2  1:47:44
So no, we, we actually, well, yeah, we are working on the NADA protocol also. So not only are we working in one specific protocol, okay, let me, let me read you the questions that you have here. So how long do you leave them inserted? So I think I answer that.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:04
I leave them until they fall out. Unless they're bought, they're irritating, and that doesn't happen very often. And like I said, when I was on the East Coast, you know, it's a lot more humid, you know, summer and winter, and it seems to be that the needles, one would fall out much sooner, and two, the patients had more irritation with it. So in the west coast, where it's dry, I don't seem to have that.

Speaker 2  1:48:27
So, right? How many Petronella asked, how many times we have to do to treat a specific decision? How often,

Bill Clearfield  1:48:36
well depends on what we're doing. Somebody comes in, you know, they they pulled their back, or they have a headache, and we do it right then and there. And if we're done, we're done for chronic things, we'll do it maybe twice a week, anywhere from three to three to five weeks. If we don't get anywhere, then, you know, we have to move on to other things. But that's, that's a that's a pretty good trial.

Speaker 2  1:48:57
So all right, right. Janet is asking, this is about your apple cider vinegar item, how much?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:06
Two tablespoons and six to eight ounces of water and with with either cravings or you can, you can do it, you know, once or twice a day, it doesn't taste too good, but make sure they don't do it straight though. It kind of strips you the enamel off your teeth.

Speaker 2  1:49:23
So good thing you mentioned that. I hope she was not thinking of chugging that down purely. So Darla here has shared I have Trigeminal Neurasthenia, Mie green, Acupuncturist immediately takes the pain away. Battlefield. Acupuncturist helps me as well, amazing, better than any of the meds that have been prescribed. So there you go. You got a testimonial right there?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:44
There we go. Okay, Darla, the five bucks will be in the mail later.

Speaker 2  1:49:50
And then Petronella, how about Japanese Acupuncturist? I think you, you showed that on the foot. I don't think you want to add anything to that. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:57
So, so, so, you know, I got, I got in trouble with the powers to be because I became enamored with Japanese Acupuncturist sort of early on the French energetic that's what they taught us at UCLA. And I don't know, I was having trouble with the terminology and all the, you know, sort of flowery language. And I ran into a couple of Japanese Acupuncturist somewhere along the way early on. And they did that palpate. I showed you that just the picture of the abdomen. They do abdominal palpate patient. And they look for release of pressure and pain areas. So you actually know that whether what you're doing on the body with the Japanese the Japanese style, that it's actually going to do something a lot of times with the five element Acupuncturist, or the the French energetics that they taught us. Okay, well, this is the, this is the protocol. And then, you know, as you sort of have to hope and pray that, you know, patients come back. And it did something the Japanese style, you can actually, you know, you sort of, sort of get an idea that you're, what you're doing is either going to be effective or not. So seems a lot better to me anyway, are they, are they teaching any of that there?

Speaker 2  1:51:15
No, we're not getting the Japanese style. We're just, they're making it simple for us here. So we're no pros.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:21
I found the Japanese style, you know, be I, you know, I've been a doctor 20 years before. I took the acupuncture classes. I found the Japanese style much more, much more understandable, actually. Oh, really, yeah. And they have a great, we have a lot of great, you know, sort of reflex points. I showed you the one for sleep. And you've seen me, you've seen me do them, you know, for head and neck and, you know, yeah, balance and all of those, you know, you know I got, I got a million of them, right? So I should write them down before I die, right? So, make a book.

Speaker 2  1:52:01
Dr James asking, have you trialed the battlefield with McGrain Gou Pelton plasters thinking of needle averse alternative? No, do you know anything

Unknown Speaker  1:52:10
about that? No,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:12
I know nothing about it.

Speaker 2  1:52:14
Okay, so no. Dr James,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:18
answer is, no. Dr James, we're gonna, we're gonna sign that to you.

Speaker 5  1:52:22
Yeah, okay. Can I ask a question, just to throw it out there, you know, the migraine gold coated biomagnetic pellets smaller than BBs. You apply them with a plaster to the point Dr Jung Gou, Frank urosek, Dr urosaki, Mie, SAAT Ki and Dr Sung and Dr Park were also using the magnetic pellets for needle averse types, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:52:52
And I know, you know, it's been a while, you know, I kind of live in a vacuum now. Don't see anybody until it's unless I go to sub conference or something. Right. Back to me, I have, I have seen, I have seen that I had a problem getting them the stick. I think that's that. I think that was the that was the issue that you put them in and they move,

Speaker 5  1:53:17
yeah, the ear has to be really clean, alcohol, white, the whole, the whole thing, or, yeah, that's an issue. And then Dr Mie SAAT, he and Dr Jung Gou at University of Chicago, we're using the manuka method of putting the pellet on the point and then hitting it with the probe and the little hammer, the manuka hammer,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:41
that'll make everybody

Speaker 5  1:53:42
needle inverse. No. I mean, no needle, just a pellet, the pellet. Okay, yeah, yeah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:50
I haven't seen that one either. Okay, I gotta get out. I gotta get out of the house more often.

Speaker 5  1:53:56
Okay, I was just curious. Thank you. We do that for needle of verse. We use the little magnets. I still do the tapping with the probe like Kiku Mie oxy taught it's a Japanese method. Frank did it with the sujak needles, tapping the sujak needles in the point.

Speaker 2  1:54:21
Dr, Bill ZV, asking, have you ever tried wait? Somebody had talked over you.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:27
I didn't hear that

Unknown Speaker  1:54:29
you tried electro Acupuncturist.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:32
I have, I don't like it. I know, I know it's, it's pretty popular, and it's used, used quite you know, you know, that's what's taught. I don't like it. Maybe I'm just more, more of a purist. You know, it's either, either we're going to, you know, do it the traditional way, or we're not. And I have not had a lot of good success with it, so, so I, I just don't use it, you know, again, you've been in my clinic. You've seen, ever seen me put hook up in the drawer?

Unknown Speaker  1:55:07
Yeah, not a big fan of the electric.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:09
It's my it's, you know, that that's my experience. Now, somebody else, you know, you know, maybe says, you know, that's all they do, and that's fine, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:19
maybe you could show our instructor a thing or two. So we should bring you over here.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:25
You know, it sounds, sounds like, sounds like you're something, they're not doing something, right? My experience is that, and again, early on, when I, when I was early on, and even teaching that, we got a lot more, you know, advert adverse reactions than I do now. I mean, now I hardly ever get any. But, you know, the more experience you get, you know, you get a better feel for what what you're doing, and you know, it goes a lot smoother,

Speaker 2  1:55:59
right, right? Well, you got all the questions out, and you actually 2028,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:07
things in the chat here.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:08
Hi. Dr Gersh,

Speaker 6  1:56:12
yeah, hi, hello, go ahead. Go ahead. Hi, hi. How about Intradermal procaine injections into the Auricular Acupuncturist points?

Bill Clearfield  1:56:27
I've been hesitant to put any substances in those points. They're very fine if you miss them. I'm not sure what's going to happen. So have you done them?

Speaker 6  1:56:39
No, but I was just thinking might not be a bad idea to try. What about what about frequent ear massage as a general, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:49
yeah, you can do that. In fact, you know you guys are getting me to remember things. If you're if you're out driving RAA, late at night you're driving and feel like you're falling asleep. Massage the bottom of your earlobe for about 15 to 20 seconds. Wake you right up.

Speaker 6  1:57:08
All right. Thanks. Great talk, right? Yeah, there you go.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:13
Instead of again, a lot, a lot of these are sort of anecdotal, you know, they might not like it at Harvard, but to bit, let's see

Speaker 2  1:57:28
more of our just like great attaboys and great class. So you got the

Bill Clearfield  1:57:33
crowd, you know, a couple of attaboys once in a while wouldn't hurt, you know,

Speaker 2  1:57:38
hey, no Rotten Tomatoes thrown out. Yeah, yeah. So you're good. Oh, there Attaboy. Dr James, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:50
The so, I mean, you know, a follow up here would be, would be like to do a hands on workshop. I mean, that would be, you know, you can look, you can look at all the books you want, but if you don't, and if you don't train, who wrote this training is $5,000 and insurance doesn't pay it. Who charges $5,000 for this? And why? What am I doing wrong

Speaker 7  1:58:21
for the Japanese Acupuncturist, if you want to take the course, I look one time into it, and it was $5,000 and I know that insurance doesn't pay for it, like, if you I mean, this is what I was told that

Unknown Speaker  1:58:36
I think she's talking full Acupuncturist class,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:40
the Japanese Acupuncturist, it's $5,000 the course,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:44
yeah, well, I mean, I took, when I took the class, it was $3,500 and that was 1991 so things have things have gotten worse,

Speaker 7  1:58:56
and I feel like I learned insurance didn't pay for it, then either

Bill Clearfield  1:59:00
you're better you're better off without without insurance. Trust me on this. Yes, the chiropractors, they'll tell you

Speaker 7  1:59:08
how much in this class is we would have taken the whole course during this Yeah, you know.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:18
So you know, the first thing you need, you need to do is, you know, you know, learn the points, and then then the, you know, the sort of the philosophy behind the points, and then, and then, you need hands on. You need somebody to hold your hand and say, Here, put the needle here, not here, because the needles are, the more precise you are, the better, the better you're going to have better results you're going to get.

Speaker 7  1:59:46
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So I saw a doctor. She was in when I was to, when I went to a conference with Academy of Stevan Suppresses. And there was a doctor, and she was doing Japanese Acupuncturist, and she was having a lot of models from plastic from Amazon, like, if you we can buy the ear from Amazon and practice on it. The plastic ear,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:17
yeah, yeah. I have a couple in the office,

Speaker 7  2:00:21
Mie plastic, Mie, different tactical, different joints, yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:30
Okay. And where can we get the slide set? I can put it online. I can put it on our website. You know, it's a little easier than sent, just sending it to everybody, but if you want, wanted, dr, James, I can send it to you. I think I have your contact information.

Speaker 5  2:00:54
So, oh, I definitely do. Doc, the presentation was so succinct and just wonderful, but I want to, and it's a reminder to me, I haven't really even considered this. You know, the 50 different kind of focuses and modalities for quite a while. And boy, it Putz it back in context that I've actually kind of overlooked something I used to do all the time. I kind of forgot why I stopped.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:26
Yeah, it's, I mean, it's easy to, you know, you get more fancy, sophisticated things. And, you know, we put the simple things, you know, to the back burner. I mean, I do it too, but this is one I use. I probably use this almost every day. Somebody comes in and, you know, we have a use for this. And like I said, it's easy to do. It's cheap and and we get really nice results. So I don't know how we do it, on time, spend two hours. I think, I don't know. I think I have, I think I got the video. If you want to see a video, it's about nine minutes. So the yes or no, you had enough.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:14
Yes, okay, yes,

Bill Clearfield  2:02:16
I'm not. I'm not. I'm not hearing all. Right, let me, let me find it here. Here we go. Can you see that? Can you see it? You bet Angel, you got it? Yep. Okay, here we go. It's about nine minutes.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:34
We'll see if I flinch.

Speaker 7  2:02:54
Can you hear it? Okay? There is no volume. No volume.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:00
All right, hold on a sec.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:14
This is

Bill Clearfield  2:03:20
It's as loud as I can make it. So

Speaker 8  2:03:27
you need to click the Share, share, sound on Zoom.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:32
Sher, sound on Zoom, yeah,

Speaker 8  2:03:37
when you maybe need to stop sharing. And then we share, clicking the sound, all

Bill Clearfield  2:03:43
right, stop Sher, and then on audio. Sher here, but you can't see it

Speaker 8  2:03:54
leave audio. I think so. I think it's an audio. There's a one that is. It says Sher, sound, something like that.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:02
Audio Settings, let's see audio test speaker microphone, noise removal, background suppression, original sound for live performance.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:22
Audio, triple click, that

Bill Clearfield  2:04:26
sync headset. I don't have said set so we'll get rid of that, anything else that might be in here, notifications and sounds volume,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:44
all right, I hit a few things. Let's see if it let's see. Let's try it again.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:01
Yes or No, no, there's still no volume.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:03
I don't know what else to do. I

Bill Clearfield  2:05:13
anybody else have any ideas?

Bill Clearfield  2:05:20
Sher computer sound, yes.

Speaker 7  2:05:23
Sher computer sound, yeah, try it now.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:32
Got it now. No, I still can't hear it.

Speaker 4  2:05:40
Try hitting that sound thing right next to the play thing, the little you know work. Sometimes it'll push it out. Yeah. Do it again. I do it again. Oh, now you check it out there. Now let's push play.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:56
You should get it Extend the arm on the sound thing, but it didn't do anything do. no.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:30
You don't hear anything. No, nope. Who's the, who's the, who's the computer guru here,

Speaker 9  2:06:41
I can't figure it out. You have to unshare the compute the unshare what you're sharing, and then click share again and click shared sound. There's a button that says, Sher sound.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:58
Where's where would the Sher sound be? Quick, share, share again,

Unknown Speaker  2:07:03
and you'll see a button there, says Sher sound on the right, on the right, down below, before you share the screen, there's a share sound button before I share it, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:19
and share it again. Stop. Sher again.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:27
Now you see a button that says Sher. Sound on the right.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:31
I see more. I see Sher. I see host tools.

Speaker 9  2:07:38
You're not in the menu bar. It should be right on the screen there, when you click the Share, that's you what you want to share. You share sound or share audio. You check it,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:49
I don't know,

Speaker 8  2:07:52
you see it when you get when you click share, you get a screen with all the things that you can share. And the writer says, share options and it says, dare share sound.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:05
Why am I not seeing it?

Unknown Speaker  2:08:08
Try to unshare. Stop. Sher, okay, Sher, just click Sher,

Speaker 8  2:08:17
but don't, don't, don't, don't. Click on what you're going to share yet. Just click, click on Sher.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:24
I did that.

Speaker 8  2:08:25
Yeah, but just click it. Don't, don't click on what you're going to share. Just click share. And before you pick what you're going to share, on the on the side, it says share sound. Does it give you a choice to pick what you want to share?

Bill Clearfield  2:08:44
I see you're sharing your screen sharing. And then it's got a you're sharing sound from your computer. That's what it says.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:51
Yeah, it's in the right lower corner. Right lower corner,

Speaker 7  2:08:59
it's a square there with share options, and it says Sher sound.

Speaker 9  2:09:02
Are you talking about the three dots or no? No, okay. On the right hand side, when you click share and a bunch of boxes pop up what you want to share. On the right hand side, it says share options, click on the Share sound button inside side.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:23
I'm sorry. I don't know what you're trying. It has to be in screen. I don't I don't see it. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  2:09:31
Well, if not, we can watch it on YouTube, in the chat, the chat, put the link,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:48
audio settings, test microphone, test speaker. I'm sorry. I you know, I'm old. I'm a dummy. When it comes to this time I don't see it.

Speaker 7  2:10:05
I know it's frustrating. Maybe it's a different version of zoom.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:14
All right, I'll send it to I'll send it to you. It is on YouTube, actually. So if you type in Battlefield on our YouTube channel, it'll, it'll this, it'll come up. I type in a link in the chat.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:42
Okay, it's

Bill Clearfield  2:10:49
clearfieldmedical on YouTube, okay, and then just just do battlefield.

Speaker 9  2:11:06
You can click the share button down below on YouTube.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:09
There the Sher one. There

Speaker 8  2:11:13
it goes, Yeah, but this is Janet already put it in.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:17
It's in the chat. Okay, thank you. All right, that that's that shares the URL. I'm sorry, everybody. I'm sorry I didn't, I don't know, I don't know what to do. Three dots, download,

Speaker 8  2:11:36
sometimes zooms, hides the buttons.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:41
There we hide the buttons there. I don't know what to do. I'm sorry if you can't hear it. Okay, so I gave you the link. Well, you got, you got, you guys kind of got the did you just do the thing? Right? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:13
How do I how do I get back to you, to the to the meeting. Now, here we go. You don't hear any of that. The whole the thing's been

Speaker 3  2:12:22
running the whole time. Yeah, we don't hear it, but if you click on that link, we get it that Jeanette sent.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:31
Okay, all right, so let me just shut it off. Sher, Okay, any other any I'm sorry about the video. I don't know what to do. You got you got the link there if you want to watch. It's only nine minutes. So okay, and Okay. Well, thank you all. Any comments or questions?

Speaker 1  2:13:02
Thank you very much. That was outstanding bill, and if have you talked about what the next program is going to entail in Reno and a few months,

Bill Clearfield  2:13:14
we're still in recovery

Unknown Speaker  2:13:16
mode from from the last one, next

Bill Clearfield  2:13:19
couple of weeks, we'll get it together.

Speaker 1  2:13:21
Well, I'm I'm thinking you could easily spend a whole day to three days with what you kind of quickly covered tonight. This is a big deal, so it'd be nice if it can be shared, and you could get some money for doing it. You gave it, this all to us for free.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:37
Thank you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, if you guys want some, you know, hands on stuff, that way, that you know, that would be a little bit different. You know, we can do your homeo puncture. We can do if you want some cosmetic stuff, we can do that. We can do the battlefield. Acupuncturist, like I said, when I when I do my facial work, you know, injectables I use. I exclusively use Acupuncturist points. So you need to know, first of all, you always need to know the anatomy. But if you know the acupuncture points, you get much better results, much less product use, utilization. And I haven't had a complication in years and years and years. So, yeah, good stuff. Okay, any other comments, questions, I guess. Look, Dr Leonard, yeah, he got the the link for the video there. So you all, you all can, can, can watch it then. So sorry about that. I'm visiting my grandchildren here. It's a little late for them, so if they were up, they would be able to fix it for me. The 10 year old, I'm sure, could fix it for me. So Okay. Dr, who was it? Dr, nary, are you still around? Did he leave? So we have, dr, the Mito. We have mitochondria next week. So want to hear, I know we've heard it before, but we're going to we get an update, and you know, all the latest on mitochondrial regeneration.

Speaker 3  2:15:30
Okay, you guys can't hear me at all. You bet you we got you now. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:39
You're appreciated. Thank you. All right, thank you all I hope this was, was of interest, and we'll, we'll do it again.

Speaker 3  2:15:48
So nice to see everybody again. Okay, yeah, Harry home, Joe

Bill Clearfield  2:15:53
will do Okay. Good night

Unknown Speaker  2:15:55
everybody. Good

Unknown Speaker  2:15:56
night you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai