Unknown Speaker  01:18
Bill, dr, Doc scenario.

Speaker 1  01:22
How was the Christmas? Oh, good.

Bill Clearfield  01:26
Was fabulous. Like I went to, I went to the Reno Sparks, the volunteer work, Gospel Mission, and I served up desserts.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
Oh, the bad stuff, Apple.

Bill Clearfield  01:39
There wasn't anything there. That was good. I mean, they had Turkey, I guess that was okay. But if you got, if you got there early, you got two, two potatoes, whole ones. And I think there was something green on that plate too.

Speaker 1  01:53
Something green you're not even, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:56
I'm not sure what it was. And if you didn't get there early, you only got one potato, but everybody got a everybody I was, I was the I was the pie man. It was either Apple or pumpkin.

Unknown Speaker  02:10
You're assigned to this that section, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  02:14
So they were, they're pretty efficient. Actually. I think we had like almost 700 people, and we were done in an hour, 45 minutes. Yeah, they do 70 at a time. They come in and you eat and go, and they know that it's not like on TV where, where they sit around and, you know, but there were enough volunteers that they sat down and we served them. So, so we're

Speaker 1  02:38
going to get this, these people for their next event. Sounds like they're pretty efficient.

Bill Clearfield  02:42
Yeah, they are pretty efficient. So, like they have more, they have more. They have more practice at it than we do, though.

Speaker 1  02:50
So it's all good. It's all about the good deeds, right? Yeah.

Speaker 2  02:56
So, yeah. So anyway, how about you?

Speaker 1  03:01
Oh, I just came back from Vegas. That's where we had Christmas. There we went to the sphere. So the the good old sphere, I'm sure you

Bill Clearfield  03:11
saw that, right? I've seen the outside of it. I haven't been on the inside at all.

Speaker 1  03:15
Yeah, it was, it was amazing, that thing. It's almost like a whole different world when you're inside it. And, yeah, the price is worth it. Just like 100 plus bucks to get in there. So they

Bill Clearfield  03:31
have the was it a concert or just a tour, or what is depends on what

Speaker 1  03:35
you want to see. There's the Wizard of Oz. If there's no there's no concert there, Wizard of Oz is playing, and the concert is the backstreet, the Backstreet Boys, I don't know if you know them guys,

Bill Clearfield  03:51
yeah, yeah, you know, I'm not that old.

Unknown Speaker  03:55
It's the the youngsters.

Bill Clearfield  03:57
Yeah, they were like the 90s, right? They were a boy band, yep,

Speaker 1  04:02
so and one, one actually has an ill a disease. Now it's, it's a neurological condition. It's a permanent dysphonia. So when he sings, it's garbled.

Bill Clearfield  04:14
So is that what you were practicing there just a minute.

Speaker 1  04:18
Well, yeah, I think I can get that far with his tone, but he actually has an issue, but he still keeps on singing even with the disability. So it's a good thing he's there. People are looking for him, but the voice really kind of doesn't match up with the performance. So, but yeah, I'm trying to check it out. Wizard of Oz is something worth looking I'm sure you've seen the original,

Unknown Speaker  04:46
right? I've seen the movie, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  04:49
It's totally different remake. They have apples falling on you. They splash water. When, when the tornado gets in there?

Bill Clearfield  04:58
What about when that when they get take care of the witch.

Speaker 1  05:02
Yeah, the shakes, the shakes of the chairs. That's when you feel it. When something explodes. That's when there's other effects comes into the play, but it again. It's something that they're trying to revise all the time. Get more money in there. Hey, I noticed we don't have CMEs. What's up?

Bill Clearfield  05:24
I don't know. He houses been been falling down on the job, so I might have to go find, find a legitimate source. I think, I think maybe the CME people finally caught up with them.

Speaker 1  05:39
Hey, at least we got through for our event.

Bill Clearfield  05:42
We got through for our event. The next event, we'll try. I'll try to go through UNR they, they, they have it.

Unknown Speaker  05:47
But what about for our webinars, though?

Bill Clearfield  05:52
Well, I have to find out what, what kind of paperwork we need, we need to do, because when I, when I did the CMEs for the AOA, I mean, that took forever.

Speaker 1  06:00
It wasn't for sure a loss is done with doing his own thing.

Bill Clearfield  06:04
Oh, I don't know that he's done. It's just he says they've been having issues that that's the only answer I get.

Unknown Speaker  06:10
Oh, FBI kind of cracked down on it.

Bill Clearfield  06:12
Well, I don't know. He's, you know, he's, he's, he's busy writing his books too.

Speaker 1  06:16
You know, I noticed that insulin resistance.

Bill Clearfield  06:19
He's discovered that insulin resistance is the cause of high blood it's the fountain of youth. And if you don't believe, a mask the ai,

Unknown Speaker  06:31
ai, yeah. Did you see us?

Bill Clearfield  06:36
Yeah, yeah. I sent him on it. He looks like a monk. Remember, Monk? Do?

Unknown Speaker  06:41
Look where the guy who played monk the detective, yeah, yeah, the TV show.

Bill Clearfield  06:47
I actually said, when he said the picture with the with the picture with the book, I copied it and sent it back to a picture of monk.

Unknown Speaker  06:55
He's all professional with his white coat

Unknown Speaker  06:58
on. Yeah, it looks professional.

Unknown Speaker  07:01
More books are coming for 2026 Yep,

Bill Clearfield  07:06
so many books,

Unknown Speaker  07:09
so many books. So you get ebooks here.

Bill Clearfield  07:16
Yeah, well, you know, I tried. I sent my manuscript to Dr Tano, and he took the whole thing and ran it through, this AI thing, and he put all these protocols in that I would never use. So, I mean, I sent him 125 pages with 459 459 references, and he turned it into this. I said, I can't print I'm not going to print that with my name on it. He said, I don't even know what the hell is in it. Well, that's why he turned it into, let's say, 600 page. You know, all those books look the same. I have this one that, that. I have this one here, to, oh, yeah, you would think of a book on universal healing points. Would have pictures of where the points are. Though there's no pictures in here at all

Speaker 1  08:10
she needs. This is by the other book with the pictures.

Bill Clearfield  08:15
The picture book, yeah,

Speaker 3  08:17
hey, I got, I got the points, guys, but I'm not sharing them because, like, Bill, I'm not going to put my name on stuff. That's just AI. There's other stuff more important. So you're right. There are points, but they're not in the book. Couple of more.

Speaker 1  08:35
Well, that's why AI's not going to take over the doctors, doctors are so afraid about oh yeah, over. They're not gonna take over.

Bill Clearfield  08:43
Ai, ai gets maybe, maybe not this generation or the next. But, you know, give it 20 years and Dr, Mario, I muted you on

Speaker 1  08:55
talk too much. That's why I get muted.

Bill Clearfield  08:57
I went to put somebody in. Let's see, it's a little after five. Is our speaker here? I don't see her.

Speaker 3  09:08
So did you guys get an invitation from Dr Glover on homeo puncture communications?

Unknown Speaker  09:19
What is that? Is that a conference?

Speaker 3  09:21
I got a thing, I think it was on WhatsApp, but I couldn't join on to it because it said I didn't have the connections and things. But anyway, it's like the AI thing I never heard of anybody use the word homeo puncture for 35 years. We mentioned it. We mentioned it six months ago, and now there's a book on it that you know defines what it is. Anyway, they're trying to do an AI book. Share ideas, so we'll see where it leads. Is it an AI book? Man, 100% man,

Unknown Speaker  09:57
wanted any other way.

Speaker 1  10:01
How can you tell, now that it's an AI book, how it's what

Unknown Speaker  10:05
you can smell it. You can

Unknown Speaker  10:08
you can smell AI perfume. Look at the

Bill Clearfield  10:11
pages here. You can see, you can tell there's a certain look to it.

Speaker 3  10:17
Sure My name's on the front of the book, and I don't know if I should be proud or scared. Yeah, your name is on here.

Unknown Speaker  10:26
You got third billing.

Unknown Speaker  10:27
Yeah, on you. John,

Unknown Speaker  10:29
you getting any royalties? John, no,

Speaker 3  10:33
we got to talk, man. I'm trying to figure out things on my end, so something major can be happening in Reno and also Bill's education stuff can be resulting in money for Bill not scattered out into the wilderness. So I want to talk to you guys about that. That would be

Unknown Speaker  10:52
nice. Oh, Bill likes money,

Speaker 3  10:57
so I've got a couple of sites going. We can do all kinds of things, but I think the class act you've been doing out there for years now and before you guys was another 20 years, 30 years of really hot shots. And why not? So why not have the education there and the profits or the education go to the people who are doing it. I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  11:22
We haven't seen any profits yet. We had no profits from the conference, by the way. Oh, well, that was that we I think we overfed everyone. I think that was,

Speaker 3  11:34
that's right. No, that was worth it. But now we can do it right, so you make some money, and it can cover the expenses too.

Speaker 1  11:43
So next conference, we'll let them bring their own bunches. Yeah, we're gonna,

Bill Clearfield  11:48
we're gonna, we're gonna designate, we're gonna designate five. Five attendees have to, have to prepare the meal, a meal. So we'll just switch it around, right? So everybody gets to participate.

Speaker 3  12:02
If you got, if you guys cut a deal with Gino, everything is covered. He can do well, and you can do well, and attendees can be fed.

Speaker 1  12:11
He gave us like, what, 10% discount. Dr Bill, 20%

Speaker 3  12:16
Well, I'm trying to get, I'm trying to give him a television show with PBS. And Melvin can be the cool speaker on some of this stuff. We've done it before, so it's a real possibility, but Gino could afford to be very generous with us. For his sake.

Bill Clearfield  12:39
I think we would do better if we were on something like Buffy the Vampire Slayer, or something like that, BBs, you know, the next exciting episode of Buffy.

Speaker 1  12:53
Now we have better, better things for the next conference television.

Bill Clearfield  12:57
That was the last time I have a television. When was that on? I mean, 90s,

Unknown Speaker  13:03
we learn. We learn.

Bill Clearfield  13:07
Well, you know, if our speaker doesn't show up, you or I is going to have to do something here.

Unknown Speaker  13:11
So did you have her number?

Bill Clearfield  13:15
I do okay, you take over. I'm gonna, I'm gonna try and find her. Okay, here,

Speaker 3  13:19
I'm gonna dig my Melvin, while you take over, let me know how interested you would be in doing some type of nutrient dense PBS, Food Network, Learning Channel, network show like a few minutes, probably at the most a half an hour a week. But it'd be, it could be chopped down into intervals that could be shown, which is like a five minute thing. We did it before. And you're a good talker. You're good for it. We're the guys doing the nutrient dense information. You have four restaurants owned by Gino and and Reno. So all we have to do is call and coordinate, and if you guys have an interest in that, I'll put my neck out and try to get some things done.

Speaker 1  14:06
Yeah, tell me how we can contribute to this. This is it in Reno, or somewhere, somewhere else.

Speaker 3  14:16
I i built Studios here in West Virginia. We had really fancy stuff, but it's a it's like running having a cruise ship. It's really nice to have a cruise ship or a yacht, but you have to have somebody to run it. So the type of studio work we were doing, man, you had to have a six man crew to even just run the machines that were being used. But anyway, there's been all kinds of technical advances, so you don't have to worry about that now. And Gino may have the film crew, yeah, so, and that's a big savings for us, because if we even get started in this, it's going to be 10,000 bucks for one camera to do it the way it should be done, and you usually need a few cameras with a switcher, which is another 30,000 bucks just for the switcher, and another 100,000 for cameras. But anyway, you don't have to do that. Now, if you got a good cell phone and you know what you're doing. So I'll follow up with all that. I just wanted

Speaker 1  15:25
to know if you guys, yeah, I'm down anything to help out cool our cause. Very cool man. All right, so let me start with our Tip of the Week here, as we let me just let me just let people in here, there. Okay, so let's talk about something that is so I'm still in this a for M hype, but also in the fellowship they're starting. I'm starting to get worried about this. And this is in comparison to our peptide era, as we know, peptides are coming back, there's a resurgence for this. And there was just a case that was one recently to re put, I guess we reassign peptides again in the market as FDA removes the ban on these things. And one thing that you will always hear about when you hear peptides along with it as the word bio regulator. So bio regulator is coming up a lot in our clinic, encounters in our patients. Patients are telling us the same thing, and they're already using these compounds. And as clinicians, we need to understand what they are. So today, it isn't it's not about the hype, it's about the understanding what they are and what the data actually shows, and how to have an integrative conversation with your patient, how to get their medical advice from us and not from Reddit or even their chat rooms. So bio regulators are short peptides, usually two to four amino acids, so shorter than peptides, peptides designed to restore tissue specific gene expression. So they don't push hormones. They don't override receptors. They don't yell at cells. They politely remind it when it used to do what it used to do before, when they were younger. Think of them as epigenetic post it notes stuck on DNA saying, hey, remember when you work better when we were younger. So aging again this comes into the picture is a big knockout, because aging isn't just damage, it's loss of signaling fidelity. What does that mean? Over time we see epigenetic drifts, repair genes quieting down, inflammatory genes turning up, tissue specificity breaks down. So bio regulators aim to normalize these gene expressions, restore protein synthesis, improve mitochondrial and immune signaling and reduce inflammaging. So they're not cosmetic, anti aging. You have to remember that they're keeping organs acting like organs in a medical way. So here are common examples that you will encounter in the market when you hear bio regulators, so you will hear a pineal regulator named epitalon. One is thymalin, which is related to the immune system, which is the thymus gland, and pineal on, which is related, again, to pineal gland, but supported for the cognitive part, vasogen, which is vascular endothelium, cartilage, which is cartilage repair for the for the joints, and also live again, which is liver, so quick. Check here, not FDA approved, yet, used internationally and again, very safe. Why is it safe? Because it's only in low doses. These are in micrograms, not milligrams. That's why it has a low side effect profile, which explains why patients find them before we actually do so let's give you two top bio regulators out there. One is epitalynd, and these are all backed up by studies. Let's start with this one first, and epitallant has been proven that it activates telomerase, lengthens telomeres in human somatic cells, restores melatonin secretion, improves circadian signaling. We always thought this was a peptide, but this is also a bio regulator. And the study by kevinson and Al 2003 found that human fibroblasts exposed to epitamin showed telomerase activation, telomere length increase. Cells exceeded the hay Fleck, hey, flick limit without malignant transformation. So Hayflick limit is the amount of replication a cell can do before they can turn into senescent cells, or like zombie cells that are now forming inflammatory cytokines that are negative for our system and translation to us for clinicians, this, again, this was cellular aging biology done without oncogenic signaling. So this is why longevity clinicians should pay attention to this specific bio regulator, and one is thymol in timeline is, of course, one of our immune systems wish to know about how it can regulate itself on its own, because as we age thymus and pollutes T cell diversity collapses, inflammation arises and infection and cancer risk climbs. Thymalin was, what does it do? It restores T cell differentiation, improves CD four CD ratios, enhances immune surveillance, reduces chronic inflammatory signaling. Again, doctor cavinson did this study on this on mechanisms of aging and development in 2002 findings of this study showed restoration of thymic function in elderly patients. So you have to remember the involution of the thymus happens in adults and stage right, even younger sometimes, and also this improved immune markers and better clinical outcomes in hospitalizing aging population. So this is immunosenescence, not immuno stimulation. So very important distinction. So here's the clinical takeaway, bio regulators like epi talent and thymine aren't hormones, steroids or peptides that forces physiology the epigenetic normalization tools. So these are low doses, tissue specific and actually biologically coherent. Are they FDA approved? No. Are they magic? Also, no. And are your patients already asking about them? Absolutely, and that's why we're talking about them. So the conversation happens in your office, not in the locker rooms. That's your tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  21:28
Of course, it happens in the locker rooms,

Unknown Speaker  21:31
gym locker rooms, not

Bill Clearfield  21:34
everything that we do. That's where it all starts, right?

Speaker 1  21:37
I know the hormones that we use here, right? Okay, so, but anyway, this is available commercially. This is something you could buy in rep, you, I don't know where. We're not in CME, right? No, okay. So a good company that I've been hearing is, I mean, it's out there integrative peptides by Holt or cancel tour is operating this, and I've been using some of this.

Bill Clearfield  22:00
Again, those are those are only oral, though they don't have the injectables. I don't think,

Speaker 1  22:06
no, most of the bio regulators are oral form, and that's why it's easily absorbed, because there are smaller molecules than peptides, and that's why there's some confusion when you talk about peptides and bio regulators. It's just when I've been seeing studies about this, when you talk about, for example, somebody has a thyroid condition, you use a thyroid bio regulator. It actually normalizes these, these hormone abnormalities, such as being hyper thyroid or hyperthyroid, and it's not something that will cure. It will normalize it will not push an organ to a higher limit of functioning. So that's that's the key on remembering how bio regulators work.

Bill Clearfield  22:50
Okay, okay, I tried calling the phone number I have for our speaker, and it's a company, and I tried, I sent her the link again, and she's not not answering, so we're going to have to box her ears the next time we see her. And I got a I got so we were going to do a question and answer and the I was going to ask her questions. It wasn't really a formal lecture, but I don't know the answers to them, because, you know, she's so her name was Piper dobner, and we've had her on before, yeah, fecal micro biota transfer, which I know very little, so I can't answer the questions. So you want to try answering the questions, or should we go on to something else?

Speaker 1  23:47
Maybe send me the questions first. We don't want to wing it. You don't want to and give false information to our viewers here.

Bill Clearfield  23:56
Okay, well, how about then if we go, we use, I

Speaker 1  24:02
have an idea. What about your vitamin C lecture that everybody was asking for.

Speaker 4  24:07
You want the vitamin C lecture? Yeah, I think

Speaker 1  24:10
you haven't done that. We did vitamin D, correct? Yeah, the Coimbra.

Bill Clearfield  24:16
Coimbra, Okay, hang on. Let me send you

Unknown Speaker  24:18
the vitamin C protocol that you have. All

Unknown Speaker  24:21
right, hang on.

Speaker 1  24:25
The questions here, yeah, I'll try to and figure it out.

Unknown Speaker  24:31
All right, so our

Speaker 5  24:38
Yeah, actually, I like to add the vitamin C with your vitamin A vitamin D protocol that you do for you know, as soon as we think we're getting sick,

Bill Clearfield  24:51
well, I can give you that off the top of my head, all right, yeah. So I did, what I did was effects of vitamin C on hormones. Hormones, yeah, what you wanted? Vitamin C, right. Okay, I

Speaker 1  25:10
don't think you got there because we I think we tagged him on a lecture, and you were about to do that, but you ran out of time.

Bill Clearfield  25:18
Yeah, okay, well, looks like we got time now, all right. Do you see my my screen? Yep, okay, so you look

Speaker 1  25:29
for our speaker. Where do you send the questions? I send them to you? Email, yeah, okay, go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  25:38
Okay, okay, so I attended a conference on vitamin C, low dose and high dose, and I was asked to speak on the, of course, the hormone aspects of it. So that's what we're going to bring you today. So and again, it was a CME, so I'm sort of clean. We'll talk a little bit about introduction and mechanisms, and we'll talk about the hormones themselves. So Vitamin C is a essential, water soluble vitamin It comes in two forms. It comes in ascorbic acid, which is the most common form, and ascorbate. You want your patients to use the ascorbate, the ascorbate has a pH of about between seven and nine, depending on the preparation. The ascorbic acid has a pH of about two to three. The ascorbic acid is where we get a lot of the side effects from it's less expensive and it's and it's more abundant. So they should look at the bottle, and if you really want them to be using the ascorbate, not the ascorbic acid, they they they conjugate into the same end product, however, so it has to be ingested due to the absence of this enzyme here, glio lactone enzyme that humans cannot synthesize, and it has to be obtained from either the diet or from supplements. It's a cofactor for many enzymes involved in collagen synthesis, neurotransmitters and hormone production. It neutralizes reactive oxidative stress and regenerates other antioxidants, such as vitamin E and glutathione, and it supports the immune defense by enhancing white blood cell function and integrity of the epithelial barriers. So I didn't go into a lot on on the the basics of vitamin C, because, again, this was a vitamin C conference, so there was much more extensive in some of the other talks. We all know it comes from oranges and citrus fruits, also lemons, grape grapefruits, berries, kiwis, papaya, guava peppers, broccoli and leafy greens, synthetic the ascorbic acid is from a industrial fermentation or chemical synthesis, and it's bio biologically equivalent to natural vitamin C. It's sensitive to heat, light and oxygen, cooking and lung storage reduces vitamin C content. The recommended daily allowance for adults is 75 milligrams a day for women and 90 milligrams a day for men. And you'll see that the doses that are recommended from the the the vitamin C gurus, is much higher. They're higher needs and smokers and during illness. It comes in oral forms, tablets, capsules, powders. You've seen it in liposomal formulations, if you were at our conference, Dr Levy's group has a liposomal that you put it in some water and drink it like a shot. There's IV delivery for higher doses, 20 to 50 grams in a day. That's used for cancers and for all sorts of chronic illnesses. It's saturable in the intestinal transport, and excess is excreted in the urine. High doses of vitamin C can lead to urinary oxalate excretion, and it can increase the risk of oxalate stones. It's concentrated in the adrenal glands, pituitary, thyroid and gonadal tissues. It participates in hormone production, particularly cortisol, testosterone and DHEA the androgens, estrogen and progesterone, and it modulates an oxidative environment that influences hormone secretion, transport and receptor activity. Deficiency will impair wound healing, immunity and collagen rich, rich tissue repair, and in severe cases. This is what it's most known for, is scurvy. I remember in medical school, we were told, Well, we won't see scurvy in North America, so we're not going to really deal with vitamin C very much, moderate to high dose vitamin C has benefits in chronic stress conditions, thyroid autoimmunity, metabolic syndrome and Cancer Support therapy and very high dose Vitamin C is you can reach pharmacological blood levels not possible with oral dosing, and it produces a very potent anti inflammatory and it can also be a Pro oxidant effect in certain settings. Again, as I mentioned, the chemical form, there's ascorbic acid and ascorbate. The ascorbic acid is the pure form with the ascorbate is the neutral to mildly basic pH, six to eight. I said, seven to nine. Oral use and gi tolerance. Ascorbic acid is available in tablets, powders and fortified foods, high oral doses, more than two grams, can cause stomach irritation and heartburn. Ascorbate is a buffered supplement. It's less problematic on the stomach, and it's preferred for patients with sensitive gi tracts, IV use ascorbic acid contributes no additional minerals, and it's not used in the IV due to its acidity as score bait. Provide sodium and be careful with patients that have a sodium sensitivities as standard. And this is the standard the ascorbate for IV vitamin C, both forms enter the bloodstream as ascorbate. Ascorbic acid is relatively inexpensive and it's suitable for supplementation and low doses, like I said, up to two grams food fortification causes GI upset. If scorbate is better tolerated, is orally, stable in solution and safe for IV use, and it adds sodium load, so caution in heart heart disease, renal failure, and it's favored for high dose oral regimens. So we have a number of different brands of vitamin C here. I actually didn't know that the difference between the two originally, and we found that three of the brands that we carried had ascorbic were ascorbic acid and three were ascorbate. So we know, no longer carry the ascorbic acid ones tablets. This is a chart, basically, of the difference between ascorbic acid and ascorbate. You know, I like to make things, you know, like, like to simplify things so that you have one, one page to look at, you know, if necessary. So this is everything we just talked about. So vitamin C in the endocrine system, you know, what's why bother and this is at doses of 1000 milligrams, the VC, IC, ci, you is the vitamin C conference that I went to. They recommend starting doses at 4000 milligrams orally and at IV doses at anywhere from 20 to 50 grams a day for a chronic disease. And they'll they'll treat up to five days a week. So cortisol regulation promotes healthier stress response. High Dose normalizes elevated cortisol and DHEA sulfated levels. It modulates cortisol, reduces the perception of stress related disease, improves the mood and it will improve the immune system. It supports immune function, especially when it's weakened from prolonged stress. So Vitamin C is the is here, is this CO factor here? And as dopamine is converted to norepinephrine and into cortisol, thyroid function is normalized, it decreases TSH. Remember TSH is an inverse. TSH normal is about 0.4 to 4.5 remember that TSH is a detective. It detects how much is in your system. If you have too much, your brain will tell you to make less. If you have not enough, your brain will tell you to make more and the so the TSH 0.4 means that your patient is running high, zero rather 4.5 means that the patient is low, and it normalizes. Vitamin C will help normalize free t3 and t4 and these are the usable portions of t3 and t4 it will help enhance the absorption of levothyroxine. You will get a some somewhat of a reduction in TPO thyroid peroxidase antibodies, and we need to make vitamin C part of our assessments. Vitamin C can increase testosterone and it can aid in the treatment of fertility. It improves overall androgen profiles. It can influence female bat hormone balance. It aids the regulation of estradiol, progesterone ratio during menses, and it can regulate a reproductive hormone synthesis.

Bill Clearfield  35:31
Greater than 200 milligrams of vitamin C will improve insulin sensitivity. It can act as an antioxidant, reduce reactive oxidative stress. It reduces.

Bill Clearfield  35:54
It reduces. I'm gonna have to skip that one. Okay, so here's our nitty gritty. Here these are the hormones we're going to we're going to cover. Start with testosterone and just real quick male testosterone biosynthesis in the hypothalamus, gonadotropin releasing hormone stimulates the anterior pituitary to release LH and FSH. Vitamin C will act on the anterior pituitary to enhance the release of LH and FSH. LH, luteinizing hormone stimulates the light Excel. So if you need to remember the mnemonic luteinizing hormone LH, lytic cells, which is, which are where the test, where testosterone is produced, and the FSH, so the s, follicular stimulating hormone, stimulates sertoli cells, S for spermatogenesis. Remember that when we use exogenous testosterone for treatment that the spermatogenesis comes to a halt. There's a a negative feedback that shuts down the sertoli cells and the anterior pituitary, particularly the follicular stimulating hormone. 2000 milligrams of vitamin C a day can increase testosterone in infertile, fertile, older men, older, older being greater than age 41 it will lower luteinizing hormone. Remember, that's where testosterone is made, and it will increase testosterone. It will help maintain testosterone with age, so it will delay the decline. Vitamin C deficiency leads to a decline in vitamins in testosterone. It can preserve the DNA in germ cells. It has an antioxidant effect and maintains fertility by preventing reactive oxidative stress, and it reduces arsenic and drug induced testicular damage. For the estrogens, this is actually an at lower doses, vitamin C can increase estradiol levels. Vitamin C supplementation with birth control pills or bioidentical hormone treatment, increases serum estradiol levels, vitamin C can increase the estrogen progesterone ratio. So beware, because it can worsen estrogen dominance. Vitamin C can increase e2 versus and decrease progesterone, and it lowers the follicular stimulating hormone. Vitamin C is involved in estrogen synthesis. It supports adrenal glands at at site of estrogen production, and it maintains adequate cortisol levels. Vitamin C deficiency leads to cortisol abnormalities and disruption of the endocrine or estrogen production for progesterone, vitamin C increases progesterone levels that have a luteal phase defect. It supports luteal the luteal phase and reduces oxidative stress. Vitamin C promotes GABA activity, remember that cholesterol will, through the star enzyme, morph into pregnenolone, which down to the left, left hand pathway in the steroidogenic pathway, will create progesterone, progesterone, via five, alpha reductase will be stimulated to make dihydro progesterone, which then will turn into allopregnine alone. Allopregnine alone is the site with that stimulates GABA, the calming neurotransmitter production when you when you give a patient a benzodiazepine and any type you know, the different mechanisms of action have different lengths of activity. They all stimulate allopregnine alone to produce GABA by the same mechanism. However, as you know, the benzos have a lot of addictive properties to them. There's drug interactions, and there, there's quite, quite problematic with them. So if you have someone with agitation, irritability, panic attacks, our go to they'll give you a little hint for a diagnostic. Here is prolactin levels. What we're looking for is prolactin levels greater than six. Six. I don't have the units in my head. It would be adequate. If they have prolactin levels less than six, you're going to see this agitation and irritability due to a lack of GABA. What we're doing with the so we actually treat the patients with over the counter GABA, and we have a much better result from that. The same end result is, if we were giving benzodiazepines without, you know, the side effects and the drug interactions, progesterone will support neurostory Production post ovulation, there's a 77% increase in progesterone levels when taking 750 milligrams of ascorbate for three months. This is just a the controversies with I always like to bring this out of progesterone after hysterectomy, it's still if you have medical students or, you know, residents or gynecologists, they still cling to the to the outdated notion that if you had a hysterectomy, you don't need progesterone, progesterone, you don't need a History. You don't need progesterone if you've had a hysterectomy, if you're going to be pregnant. However, our patients are more than just a uterus, and the reasons to use progesterone after a hysterectomy are to increase diuresis, relax smooth muscle, increase the calcium, phosphorus excretion. It raises basal body temperature. It is a a great sedative and an analgesic. It improves memory. It improves proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts, ie, it will help counteract the effects of osteoporosis. It is immune suppressive and attenuates interleukins, 1b, TNF alpha and NF, Kappa Beta. It reduces neuronal loss and traumatic brain injury. And I've mentioned this a number of times. Traumatic brain injury within 24 hours, patients get an IV continuous vitamin, eye pressure, IV progesterone at eight milligrams per kilogram for 24 hours, there's a decrease of 50% mortality within one month of the traumatic brain injury. It regulates that glutamate GABA balance, as I explain how that happens, and it improves thyroid function. More importantly, it reduces breast cancer risk, memory loss, slowed thought processes, mood changes, impulse aggression, stress, anxiety, depression, suicide, ideation, emotional flatness, thromboembolic risk, insomnia. It's neuroprotective against dementia and Alzheimer's disease has a positive association with memory and cognition, and it is has actually protective against glaucoma. So all the, all the top reasons, there are the reasons to use progesterone, and the one not reason not to is the patients can't get pregnant. If you need references for any of that. If you're interested in it, let me know, and I'll send you those references, growth hormone, and this is a 250 to 1000 milligrams per day. It will increase growth hormone secretion via an increase in dopamine, norepinephrine ratio, which increases gonadotropin, gonadotropin hormone, releasing hormone. It enhances growth vitamin adequate vitamin C, ensures a better body weight, better body development, especially in kids, an anti it's an antioxidant. It protects a growth hormone. Protects growth hormone from oxidative stress. It reduces the growth hormone, inhibiting somatostatin, which somatostatin is your growth hormone inhibiting hormone. It improves IGF one production. Remember IGF one is what's the end product of growth hormone, which is conjugated at the liver and that's necessary for growth hormone to be able to take effect. Growth hormone itself is is inert to tissues without being able to be converted in the liver to IGF one. And what we found in a lot of autistic kids is that they have very high growth hormone levels for their age,

Bill Clearfield  45:18
but they have inadequate IGF one. So the conjugation from growth hormone to IGF one is stymied. And the these these children, seem to have an order a high level of interleukin six, which is one of the main inhibit inhibitions of converting growth hormone to IGF one. And so the your remedies that will treat interleukin six, and you can measure interleukin six. I mean, even lab core has, has has a lab value. There are all quite helpful in improving patients. A lot of the time. It's It's behavioral issues with growth hormone abnormalities, vitamin C and arginine will help growth hormone release and the there's a increase in IGF one and decrease in IGF PP three. These are the proteins that transport growth hormone in the bloodstream. The thyroid, hyperthyroid patients exhibit low levels of vitamin C, and vitamin C will aid in the conversion of t4 to t3 the deficiency causes a decrease in t4 production for T total t4 a high intake of vitamin C is associated with a decrease in total t4 there is, remember, t4 converts to t3 that's the usable portion. There's a non linear correlation between vitamin C levels and free t4 and it's most pronounced in those who don't drink alcohol. In hypothyroidism, an adequate amount of vitamin C will increase the free t3 to free t4 ratio and reduce TSH. It aids in GI absorption of levothyroxine in the face of microbiome disruptions, which is quite common in hypothyroidism, particularly in the autoimmune hypothyroidism, and it reduces oxidative stress in thyroid disease. For the autoimmune thyroid disease, the TPO thyroid antibodies are reduced in clinical studies with vitamin C adequacy. This was treating patients with 500 milligrams a day for three months. Like I said, the vcic contingent holds that the adequate dose you don't start getting adequate doses until you get get 4000 milligrams a day, less consistency in the anti thyroglobulin antibodies, as far as reduction is concerned and in Graves disease or auto immune hyperthyroidism, there's an inverse relationship between vitamin C levels and hyperthyroidism. Adequate vitamin C will reduce the hyperthyroid TSI, auto auto immune, antibody burden for insulin and vitamin C improves insulin sensitivity, reduces oxidative stress. For glycemic control, it's there's a significant reduction in fasting blood sugars, fasting insulin and hemoglobin, a 1c it reduces vitamin C, reduces insulin resistance, lowers the risk of type two diabetes mellitus, improves your insulin resistance, Hoa, ho ma, profile. And remember a quick way to figure, to figure that is to take fasting insulin times fasting of blood sugar divided by 405, that'll get you to corrected units. Our goal is less than 1.9 in that ratio, and normal is less than 2.9 optimized doses are doses greater than 1000 milligrams. For 12 weeks, you'll get a much better result, cortisol, or stress hormone. We actually looked at this slide earlier. Cortisol regulation promotes healthier stress response. High doses normalized elevated cortisol and DHEA sulfonated, enhanced resilience. Vitamin C modulates cortisol, reduces the perception of stress related challenges and supports the immune system. DHEA, DHEA, remember, will balance cortisol, vitamin C lowers elevated DHEA and also create a balance in cortisol. Remember, the normal cortisol to DHEA ratio is about five to six to one, and an abnormal cortisol to DHEA levels about 10 to one. Pregnenolone, which is our the hormone of memory. It acts as a cofactor in steroid Genesis and aids in the conversion of mitochondria of the of cholesterol to pregnant alone. Vitamin C ensures adequate pregnenolone levels. Pregnalone, again, is the mother hormone to DHEA, cortisol, estradiol, progesterone and testosterone. It preserves pregnenolone preserves, I think this should be progesterone role as a neuro steroid. That's that's an error there on three. It provides support for memory, cognition and neuronal repair. Low vitamin C impairs pregnenolone production. It reduces synthesis of DHEA, progesterone and the sex organs. This is the steroidogenic pathway, and this is cholesterol being converted to pregnenolone here, to progesterone here, and then over here, all the way to cortisol. And over on the right, you'll get your testosterone, and I don't show it here, but testosterone, as you know, aromatizes into estradiol on this is another look at it's kind of the backdoor way of looking at it. Here's a here's your pregnenolone to progesterone to five alpha dihydro progesterone to allopregnine alone. Remember, I told you, this will stimulate the neurotransmitter GABA to be produced, and this is where your benzodiazepines are active also as another aside, remember that we use five alpha reductase inhibitors, finasteride, dutasteride, to block the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. This will reduce prostate size. It will improve hair growth and reduce hair loss. However, lost in the shuffle is the fact that the same five alpha reductase converts progesterone to dihydro progesterone, which then leads to alloprediol alone, and that the production of that common neurotransmitter GABA, and there's a small but significant subset of patients who take these five alpha reductase inhibitors that end up with behavioral issues, among other things. But these behavioral issues can sometimes be permanent, and it can it's been reported with you just using one pill, and there's been about 120 suicides that have been traced back to patients using finasteride, particularly, and the lower dose versus the higher dose, the one milligram in the younger men, the men between ages of 18 and 45 looking to, you know, stop hair loss or reverse hair loss, and they're the ones who end up in trouble with these psychiatric issues. So you need to be careful when you're prescribing these five alpha reductase inhibitors, any any patient that has a pre existing or family bipolar depression or severe monopolar depression, severe sleep disorders, really should not be placed on these drugs, because the the side effects can be quite devastating. This is pretty much the same thing prolactin, prolactin module, vitamin C modulates prolactin secretion. Vitamin C contributes to hypothalamic dopamine synthesis, which inhibits excess prolactin release. It protects, there says a protective role in hyper prolactinia. Adequate vitamin C intake reduces oxidative stress, normalizes prolactin levels in patients with elevated prolactin, vitamin C supports fertility and reproductive health. It regulates prolactin and gonadotropins. Vitamin C contributes to improve menstrual cycle, regularity and fertility, and it helps balance the neurotransmitters. Vitamin C deficiency is linked to altered neurotransmitter activity. Prolactin regulation via dopamine pathways becomes dysregulated, vitamin C and melatonin, they're synergistic with each other, and there's synergistic antioxidants for enhanced photo protection. There's superior antioxidant capacity when

Bill Clearfield  54:44
when using vitamin C, melatonin is a better antioxidant than vitamin C. It has a scavenger, reactive oxidative stress component that's more efficient in skin tissues. Vitamin C will enhance ultraviolet light protection, particularly with melatonin, they blitz that blend of vitamin C and melatonin will will reduce ultraviolet induced damage and inflammation, often strong skin photo protection, synergistic protective mechanisms versus reactive oxidative stress, vitamin C plus melatonin form a potent antioxidant defense that outperforms either alone. So they're synergistic with each other and the safety profile. Unlike some antioxidants, melatonin remains protective at higher doses without turning into a pro oxidant. Bone health. Vitamin C supports bone density, higher vitamin C intakes, improves a BMD and reduces fracture risk. It protects against osteoporosis. It can lower osteoporosis risk by up to 33% it maintains periodontal and skeletal health. Adequate vitamin C strengthens connective tissues, improves tooth attachment and skeletal ability. Adequate. Vitamin C is college is essential for collagen synthesis. It's a cofactor for the hydroxylase enzymes, critical for collagen cross linking and bone matrix integrity. And vitamin C maintains vitamin D metabolism and bone mineralization, homocysteine and blood pressure, vitamin C, a greater than 500 milligrams per day, modestly lowers blood pressure, especially in hypertensive patients. It will help modulate plasma homocysteine, a cardiovascular risk factor, and also, homocysteine can be a clue into patient's nutrition. Remember that a homocysteine greater than 15 is a coronary or cardiac issue until ruled out otherwise vascular function, and improves endothelial function by enhancing nitric oxide bioavailability and vitamin C will help cardiovascular protection. It supports vascular health by reducing inflammation and reactive oxidative stress. So here's your take home slide here with all the hormones over on the left, the effects of adequate vitamin C, and adequate vitamin C, again into vcic protocol, is 4000 milligrams orally per day. And in chronic stress, they for each chronic stress, stressor, they add 1000 milligrams a day for that. So somebody with Hashimotos thyroiditis, it would be 5000 milligrams per day. For instance, they have Hashimotos and, say, shogrens disease, that would be 6000 and so on and so on, so forth, so So these are all everything that we went through for all of the hormones with the doses over on the on the right for the the adequate, the minimal adequate doses. You can get a plasma or serum ascorbic acid with an adequacy of great, greater than 50 micro moles per liter. You can do a leukocyte ascorbic acid test, which reflects store tissue, vitamin C, and we want that to be greater than 15 micrograms in the white blood cell leukocyte tissue, low levels impair collagen synthesis, the immune system and antioxidant capacity, adequate levels support hormone balance and synthetic system, systemic oxidative antioxidant protection. This is our basic laboratory studies here, lifestyle modifications that can affect vitamin C smoking and oxidative stress. We know all these smoking decreases vitamin C levels by 25 to 50% and increased so results in an increased requirement of vitamin C and smokers and high body weight of patients, smokers and individuals with high body weight need twice the daily vitamin C intake to maintain adequate status. And again, this 200 milligrams is going off your RDA, obesity is linked with lower vitamin C levels. The vitamin C levels are inversely associated with BMI, body fat and weight circumference in both sexes increase, indicating that higher adiposity equals lower circulating ascorbate environmental pollutants and ultraviolet exposure air pollution, smoke, ozone, ultraviolet radiation, accelerates cutaneous vitamin C depletion by increasing reactive oxidative stress in the epidermis. Poor diet, or low fruit and vegetable intake, falling consumption of fruits and vegetables, a primary dietary source has led to lower daily vitamin C intake and reduced plasma levels, especially populations that adhere only to the basal RDA recommendations for chronic inflammation and chronic pain, obesity, type two, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, with results in increased oxidative stress, it leads to increased vitamin C turnover and depletion, psychological and physical stress, stress hormones rapidly consume vitamin C during illness and surgery and different medications that might have an effect on vitamin C include NSAIDs, statins, corticosteroids, antibiotics, chemotherapy and chemotherapy, infections and inflammatory states can drain vitamin C pregnancy, labor and regenerative procedures can sharply raise vitamin C levels. Alcohol consumption elevates reactive oxidative stress and rapidly lowers antioxidant reserves and in aging, antioxidant defenses declined with age, and so the need for vitamin C becomes more critical as a patient matures to conclude adequate vitamin C intake supports hormone homeostasis across many endocrine axes, particularly to sex hormones, thyroids, stress response and growth factors. Vitamin C deficiency is associated with impaired steroid Genesis, increased cortisol and insulin resistance and compromised vitamin D metabolism. High Dose supplementation provides therapeutic benefits and specific conditions, namely autoimmune thyroiditis, hypercortisolism, but again, should be individualized and monitored and random trials, which probably will never happen, are needed. You know, those expensive ones that the big pharma does to clarify optimal dosing with other micronutrients? Here's all the references

Bill Clearfield  1:02:07
that in an hour, and thanks a bunch 97 references and 47 slides so

Unknown Speaker  1:02:21
impressive. Very good. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:25
Our speaker never did. Did make it? Huh?

Speaker 1  1:02:28
No, you have questions, though. Okay, what time during the day is the best time to take vitamin C? Divided dose? Yeah, we doses. What is the typical

Bill Clearfield  1:02:40
if you're going to do the 4000 milligrams, I would to do two in the morning after after your morning meal, and two in the evening, after your evening meal.

Speaker 1  1:02:53
What is the typical melatonin dose? Do you recommend?

Bill Clearfield  1:02:57
Okay, so lately we've been going with we've been going with an XR, IR preparation. So that's a short acting, long acting, and that'll help the patients get to sleep and then to stay asleep. So we've been using a lower dose. I've been using a 1.5 milligram. That seems to work out pretty nicely. We we use that with vitamin D, usually anywhere from two to 5000 units, depending on on on their their dose level. And we also use some magnesium. We were using magnesium Tori. Tori, it's a sedating salt, but I've been having trouble getting that. So we've been we've been switching to magnesium glycinate. Remember that melatonin is not a sleeping pillage, it alters the circadian rhythm. So we give these this combination the vitamin vitamin D, melatonin and magnesium, two hours before bedtime. I'm sure that, if you've you've had patients come in and say, Yeah, I took melatonin. It didn't work. I laid there for two hours and and it I see our see our speakers here.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:05
So we can answer the questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:08
Yeah, we can answer the questions. So we said the patients will tell us that they didn't. Melatonin didn't work. I laid there for two hours, and it took me two hours to fall asleep. That's how it works, right?

Speaker 1  1:04:20
Well, yeah, there's a there's a current. Again, there's so many in the cancer world, I have used 1020, 30, even 40 milligrams.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:34
Oh, yeah, I've used them that high also, but, yeah, but I like the XR, IR preparation, and that seems to, that seems to be pretty adequate for, you know, good portion of the population.

Speaker 1  1:04:50
Anyway, yeah. And again, you would know if you're using too much melatonin, and this is something that clinically is present in patients, that when they're groggy, when they're drowsy, there's even thoughts of it being a depressant if you're taking too much. So those are kind of clinical signs that Melatonin is a little higher than normal. And of course, you have your your tests, your urinary, salivary tests, right? Can guide you through that also, yeah, but always in a for m, low, go low and slow, one milligram, even 0.5 milligram, as they talk and slowly, kind of track their weight going up, yeah? So, so many different ways and how how to do it, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:05:39
Well, that was you got any more questions? You got any online? I think we got them all here.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:44
Yeah, I think we can go to Piper.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:47
Somebody asked the is the XR IR over the counter? The answer is, yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:52
okay, okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:05:55
and now here's our speaker, Dr, Piper dobner, hi, I'm going to let you introduce yourself real quick, since we kind of got off track here a little bit, and I'm not sure how long have you been on with us here,

Speaker 6  1:06:11
I joined maybe like three minutes ago. Okay, not crazy long. I just hopped in. Okay, yeah, um, I'm Dr Piper dobner. I specialize in microbiome therapies. I did a talk with you guys last year on fecal transplant, and we talked a lot about fecal transplant, so we were going to do kind of a follow up, kind of Q and A session on microbiome and microbiome therapeutics. I also work at SFI health as their senior manager of science and education, so I work a lot with supplements. Melatonin is part of our product line, but I really prefer using Phosphatidylserine before bedtime. I don't know if you guys are familiar with Matthew Walker, the PhD researcher on sleep science who talks about high doses of Phosphatidylserine before bed to help re establish the circadian rhythm too, but using more, you know, eye masks, blackout curtains, things like that, to help the body itself make the melatonin. I just think that that's cool research. So I like sleep. Sleep is also incredibly important. I talk to every single patient about it. So happy to talk sleep. I can go in any, any direction you guys want to go.

Speaker 1  1:07:27
Yeah, I think he was, there's some questions for you.

Speaker 6  1:07:31
Actually amazing. That's what I was hoping for. I was like, ask me questions. Let's just like, dive in. I want to have a conversation. So I hope you guys want to talk tonight, because, you know, it's always more exciting when everybody else wants to join in.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:46
Okay, you want to go doctor? Scenario,

Speaker 1  1:07:48
yeah. So one of the questions for you would be, so how would we conceptualize a microbiome as a therapeutic target beyond bug? So I think the question comes from a direction that we perceive the microbiome, especially with the testings that we have nowadays as individualized organisms. So that's why we will have a probiotic called acromancy, and we just want to focus on building acromancy and forgetting about the other things, thinking that it's going to fix the whole problem. So we're seeing the microbiome in a very specific lens. But I think this statement or question from you, for you also, is, what is the difference between approaching it specifically and using a broader lens by fixing the microbiome?

Speaker 6  1:08:33
Yeah, I mean, I see this a lot, especially being in the probiotic space right where, like, people will reach out to our company and be like, Why don't you have this specific strain, or why don't you have this specific bug? And it's like, at the end of the day, I think we have to remember that the microbiome is a community of organisms, and it's got so many different bacterial families and genera and different microbial species that are fungal in nature or viral in nature, or are protozoal in nature, like there's there's so many different organisms that inhabit our internal ecosystem that to simplify it to one bug is it's kind of like saying the most important plant in the forest is an echinacea plant, and everything else doesn't matter. It's, you know, it's, that's how I would make an equivalent to it. And so when I think about the microbiome, you know, one of the things that oftentimes, people will shoot me a message, right? Like they run a vibrant test and specific form of E coli has shown up, and they're like, oh, man, what do I do? It's like, well, go read about that E coli. Like, it's a transient E coli. It's going to last 10 to 14 days in the GI tract. They're going to have some increased symptoms, with maybe increased dual frequency, but it's going to pass through. I don't touch those. I just let them run through. Like I see them. I acknowledge that they're there, I acknowledge that that probably is why the person is having some of the symptoms are having, but I'm not going to attack it. And I think that's that is part of the difference is that when you start to look at the system, is from that more of an ecosystem lens. When I go to attack something like if I think I'm actually targeting that one organism with my attack method. I mean, that's there's no way, right? So many of our antimicrobial therapies we have are broad spectrum, and even if they're more quote, unquote targeted, they're wiping out whole sections of microbes. And so it's really about thinking about how to boost that ecosystem diversity. And that's really when I started thinking about the microbiome and treating the gut. That's what I'm looking at when I'm looking at those tests. I'm not I'm not looking at somebody's exam, at, you know, whole genome sequencing readout, and being like, Oh, you don't have acromancy. So I need to put acromancy in there. There's so many other Muse and degraders in the gut. There's so many others who have those capabilities. And so for me, the number I'm looking at, and the thing that I'm taking into consideration is more like a Shannon diversity or looking at a beta diversity to see, you know, are we up there in the scale of diversity? And if we're not, then how do we rebuild and regrow that so that the community has more signal to educate the body and teach it how to work appropriately, right?

Speaker 1  1:11:27
So, yeah, when you mentioned about targeting species, so we're basically missing functional redundancy, metabolic output, host microbe signaling. So the the whole unit is a metabolic immune signaling organ, and that's why it's hard to perceive this as just give me one bug that's missing in my system. And I think coming into technology now is the personalized delivery of organisms in your gut. But really that the truth behind this is all of these gut microbes, they work together. It's not just one hero sets the whole pace for everything, exactly.

Speaker 6  1:12:06
And we forget, like, the other thing we forget about when we get into that single, isolated microbe realm where we just, like, dive in and it's about this one bug, or even one species, is we forget the fact that the majority of microorganisms exist in a biofilm. So they exist in kind of a congealed community where they are working together. And so there's that aspect of it too, where we often will think of microbes as that free floating single individual, and neglect to realize that once it's in community with even one additional bug, it may or may not work in the same capacity. It might work a little bit differently. And so when there's synergy between microbes, sometimes we see that it's a positive synergy. Sometimes we see it canceling each other in terms of a synergy, right?

Speaker 1  1:13:01
Okay, next one is, when should microbiome restoration proceed? Anti microbial suppression? So, yeah, rebuilding versus destroying it with, of course, our favorite drugs, yeah, when? When do you apply these and clinical, I guess, presentations for your patients.

Speaker 6  1:13:22
Yeah, this. I think about this a lot, and I've thought about this a lot, really, since being in the fecal transplant space, because so much of the research and the literature looks at fecal transplant under the lens of C Diff infection, and so oftentimes people are coming after they've had their antibiotic, they've had their vancomycin, they've had their deficit, maybe they've had multiple rounds of each and then they're pursuing fmt. And so then, when you start to look at the literature outside of C diff, and you look at what they're doing with kids on the spectrum, when you look at the Adams and Dr Kong study that came out of Arizona, Arizona State University, they pre treated these kids with antibiotics before giving them FMT, because that is now considered you have to clear it before you restore it. Right? That's kind of the theory in the science. When you look at data on when they're starting to think about studying this in older patients with neurodegeneration or things like Parkinson's, they're going to pre treat them with antibiotics and then give the FMT. And, you know, I've listened to other speakers in the FMT space where, like, you got to clear out the forest before you plant all the trees. And I'm like, I don't know if I agree with that, and I've had a really hard time with that philosophy, because I don't know that we need to have a cut step before we have an increased diversification step. And so the coolest thing is that in June of this year, new research came out where they were looking at fecal transplant as a primary treatment for C Diff infection, basically saying, maybe we can just walk, walk away from using an antibiotic first and go straight to FMT because we know C diff is becoming more virulent. Would it be an effective first approach? Super interesting part of that study is that the FMT delivery that they chose was enema delivery, which in the world of FMT, enema delivery is one of the least effective delivery methods for FMT, the most effective form and the gold standard for FMT delivery is colonoscopic delivery. And then in 2017 Jambo looked at colonoscopic compared to capsule, frozen oral capsule delivery, and they had a 96.2% efficacy. For C Diff with colonoscopic delivery delivery and with capsule delivery. So it's like, that's kind of cool, right? We think of those two as kind of like the best options to get FMT into the digestive tract. This particular study that was looking at these primary C Diff patients either gave them their initial round of vancomycin, which is now standard of care, right, we go right to that 10 day vancomycin prescription, or enema delivery of fecal transplant. And my favorite is that they said fecal transplant in the results that they got is non inferior to antibiotic therapy as an initial therapy, meaning they actually performed similarly in their efficacy. There was less they were both about 70% efficacious at treating the C Diff infection initially, which is really cool to think about. And then for the people who had successful initial treatment, but then relapsed, there were lower numbers in the fecal transplant group than there were in the antibiotic group. What this means to me is one I'm super curious for them to repeat that study and actually use a delivery method that is easier to administer and more efficacious in the space, because I think we would actually be able to show that FMT can be efficacious without initiating antimicrobial therapy first. Like, that's my personal opinion, right? Just looking at that study, I'm like, Oh, my God, they could have done this so much better, and I think they would have had amazing results. And I think we would have seen that FMT does has have this potential. And then it opens that door of like, okay, well, infectious disease overall, like, what if FMT could be something and, like, I've jumped about this for a long time where it's like, what if, right now, you're in one of the healthiest spaces you've been in your life, and you were able to collect your stool, have Some capsules, or capsules made to store in your freezer, and then something happens, you know, like, I think about kids today, a lot of parents are really freaked out with things like strep because of pans pandas, right? It's like a common thing that now everyone's like, Oh my gosh, if I don't treat this, my child might end up with pants pandas or some sort of neuro inflammatory disorder, so they are pressured to treat and I'm like, I just wonder if in that year span of that kid's life, they end up collecting stool. They get something like strep. You just give them more of their stool, and they go about their day like that. Could be super cool to think about, but it's really going back, because I get on my tangents of like, what I wish the world would turn into. But I think the coolest part of that is it really opens that door of like, okay, well, if there's other infectious agents and we can massively diversify the microbiome and shift how the immune system is responding, that just kind of, it opens a new door of how to start treating infections, right? Just, I just, I think that there's a lot of beauty in that study, even though I have a lot of criticism for it, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:18:55
And again, the pull the trigger type of approach, of, again, our conventional colleagues, actually comes into the question now we think about chronic versus acute situations, especially when, like an IBS or IBD patient starts to being thought having an infection, the first thing that they pull the trigger on is maybe an antibiotic to help it out. But if you think about it, sometimes these chronic situations might benefit from restoration instead of dropping the bomb on them using antibiotic therapy. So this, these chronic inflammatory, autoimmune metabolic diseases, probably benefits more from restoration rather than actual suppression. And there's so many things now, especially now we talk about long covid, autoimmune conditions, all of these, IBDs, Sibos, yeah, there's so many ways and how we can beneficially, I guess, regrow the microbiome again. Rather than dropping that bomb, I'm in my own practice. I if it's different when it's acute, life threatening, we're talking about, like, as you said, C diff, sepsis, acute infections, that's when you consider antibiotic therapy. But when you're talking about conservative, I guess, management, these are the things that you really want to say, Hey, maybe I can work on another thing that microbiome, again, through polyphenols, to fixing the diet, and that's why pulling that trigger so fast sometimes becomes more detrimental, rather than helping the whole intervention in the long run.

Speaker 6  1:20:31
Yeah, I absolutely agree. And part of my theory with approaching a lot of those complex chronic illnesses and how I look at those patients is when I take their history and I ask them, How many antibiotics have you taken in your lifetime? Like, what's your antimicrobial exposure history? And it's never a low number. It's never like, they're like, Oh, I've never had antibiotics, or I only had a handful when I was a kid. It's always like, oh, man, I had sinus infections all the time, or I had, you know, tonsillitis all the time, and then I had UTIs all the time. And what's so interesting is, like, I went to, gosh, this was years ago. I went to a microbiome conference at UCSD, and they did a whole day on the Euro biome. So like, basically the microbiome of our like, curators, our bladder, our whole Gu tract, right? And so super interesting. They started going through all the research on antimicrobial therapy, and they're like, Well, what we know is that when you have a UTI and you take an antibiotic, your risk of recurrence increases and you're likely going to need another antibiotic. But the antibiotics don't necessarily always reduce the symptomology associated with the UTI, but we don't want the UTI to go to the kidneys, so they get these patients who get on these constant cycles of antibiotics, because they're constantly recurring UTIs, which is associated with more antibiotics. And so I was just like, sitting there listening to it. I was like, there has got to be a better way. Because my assumption is across the board, we have major microbiome depletion in our food systems, in the way that pharmaceuticals interact with our microbiome, like we don't think about these prescriptions of things like anti psychotics, but they work very similar to anti microbial agents, and that they have killing impacts on different species in the microbiome. So they're effectively reducing microbial diversity. And then when you're like, Okay, we're going back to diversity. When we look at chronic illness across the board, we see diversity is reduced, like I was just putting together a presentation the other day for metabolic health. And when they look at people who are metabolically unhealthy, defined as people who have higher waist circumference and people who carry higher body weight habitus and people who have higher homo IR numbers. These are individuals whose microbial diversity is lower than people who are defined to be metabolically healthy, who have normal insulin levels, have normal, you know, hip to waist ratios. I think it's it's interesting to start thinking about like these people get into these chronic conditions. Often, these chronic conditions are associated with dysbiosis and reduce diversity. And one of the things that we do in the conventional medical system is further reduce the diversity, and that in my brain just doesn't make sense, because it's not addressing the actual problem, right? It may create some sort of symptom alleviation or management for a short period of time, but I feel like those patients, like the SIBO patients, who get put onto rounds and rounds and rounds of Rifaximin, and then they go on to herbal protocols, and then they go back onto Rifaximin at some point it's, you know, it's what the is that Einstein quote right where the definition of insanity is thinking you're going to get a different result when you do the same thing over and over again. And so it really is about, how do we look at it now as an ecosystem, and restoring it? And I went to this really beautiful conference in October where they brought doctors and farmers together at one conference. And it was so interesting because, you know, I did all my microbiome stuff and talked on a panel. And like, Yes, I think the FMT space is fascinating. I also love the concept of self infection with human hookworms, for people in the autoimmune space. And so we're talking about diversification. And I'm like, the coolest part is, I had an audience of farmers, and so I'm like, how many farmers love finding worms in their soil? And they're all like, yeah, you know, because, like, of course, like, worms in your soil is such a beautiful part of soil ecology. And if we think of ourselves as a microcosm of the greater macrocosm, we look at our soil health as a reflection of our gut health, right? And, like, it was fascinating, because somebody had asked, you know, what do we do after antibiotic therapy? We know that we're creating dysbiosis. Sometimes that's what we have to do, and we do it. But what if we don't have access to something like fecal transplant? And I was like, I like to use things like sauerkraut, right? Like, I think, sauerkraut, kimchi, when we start looking at the data of what people are consuming, those are things that will diversify the microbiome more than increasing your fiber intake. And sometimes people can't go right to increasing their fiber intake because they've just lost the microbes that can digest those fibers. And so we have to rebuild that system to better be able to handle those types of fiber. I don't want to call them insults, but like fiber introductions into the biome, right? And so I just there's so much richness there. And so then a farmer gets up in the next talk, and he was like, yeah, when we go in and we take care of conventional soil. Say, like, we purchase a farm and we're going to go in and we're going to restore it, we're going to permaculture it, and we're going to bring it back. It's going to take us years, because it's not overnight, right? And so that's a conversation we have to have with our patients. Like, when we go into restoration phase, it doesn't mean they're going to be poop and bristle fours like champions the next week. That's not how it works. It's a slow restoration phase. But once we get there, like the permaculture type farmers do, they feed their soil sauerkraut juice. And I was like, Shut up, you guys. Do not do that. And I was like, You got to be kidding me. I had no idea that was part of the permaculture approach, is that when they do that, they find in the soil that they bind things like glyphosate. And that's another component that I think we're constantly exposed to, that we don't always think about, that we're in a ubiquitous slurry of pesticides, and when we think about the importance of a diverse microbiome, but it's constantly being attacked. That's a really It's wild. Your brain starts to spin in 5 million directions. And we could go there. I'm happy to go in all of them. Let me know what you guys are interested in.

Speaker 1  1:27:15
But, well, you just mentioned hookworms. You're definitely gonna drop some Jaws later on as you discuss that. But I actually heard of helmet therapy, and our audience probably would find that interesting as well.

Speaker 6  1:27:28
Yeah, do you want to chat about it? I'm happy to go in whatever direction.

Speaker 1  1:27:33
Oh, Dr Bill, you have more questions there. Well, just just to add to your comment there. So one misconception here that when we only take antibiotics, that's when we damage the microbiome. You have to remember, there are studies also that antifungals destroys the microbiome that we have, the natural fungal flora that we also we always hear about atraconazole for our mold patients. So this is something that we need to support. And we have our Saccharomyces around here, their favorite products that we have. And same for antivirals, not not as prominent as antibiotics or antifungals, but even antivirals does its own damage directly to our bacterial microbiome. So that's just something food for thought for everyone thinking that, Oh no, we're just worried about antibiotics, and that's it.

Speaker 6  1:28:29
No, it's, you know, what's really crazy. So I've had patients run microbiome tests who are interested in in diversifying their biome, right? Because, like, I present that concept, and then the ones who are excited about the research, I get excited about because I get to watch their reports come through, right? And this one individual had come in to see me, wanted to diversify their biome, did a tiny health test, like a baseline had come in with a baseline test, and then self infected with hookworms, and then took a follow up test, and we saw the diversity increase. I mean, I can't say significantly or not, right? It's an n of one, but it definitely increased for this person in a measurable way, where I was like, wow, that that's I can see a shift. And then from there, what's fascinating about the bio and what people forget, and what I get to see working with these types of therapies is that when we're thinking about the immune system, the microbiome is a significant influencer on the immune system. So it is what is telling the immune system what to do. This individual, when they had self infected with hookworms, and the hookworms got to a place where they start to, like, quote, unquote, stabilize the signal from her biome, as we could see in this tiny health testing, which was a more diverse signal. So she was getting more information from the microbes than she had been getting was stimulating to her system, and it kind of wigged her out, because she wasn't used to getting that much of a signal. Some of my patients will have that, and I can get them through that with things like antihistamine therapy for a couple of weeks while the worms kind of start to normalize. She didn't want to do that she killed. So what she killed with is she went and got Rhesus pinworm medication and took some of that, and then took a follow up, tiny health test, right? And so she took a pinworm medication, and we saw her whole biome, just like drop. And I was like, dang, that is wild to think about, right? Because we're like, oh, well, you're just attacking. I mean, in that case, we're looking at, like nematodes, round worms, things of that sort. But we saw actual microbes, like in the bacterial space, go away with that treatment. And I was like, this is interesting. That is absolutely true when we look at things like antifungals and antivirals. And I think what's really interesting is that we need more of those after we start using more of the antibiotic therapies, right? Like we're starting to see a lot more fungal issues, and maybe it's not starting to they've always been there, but I always see fungal after I've seen a lot of antibiotics, because we've lost the microbial balance. We've lost the part of the ecosystem that the bacterial species are balancing, which gives the fungal species the opportunity to take take host.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:30
Dr Bill, go ahead. We're about to say something.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:33
I'm going to ask you something a little bit more basic. So your your FMT is often described as a microbiome replacement. Yeah, what is being replaced? Organisms, phages, metabolites, immune what? What's being replaced?

Speaker 6  1:31:52
Yeah, that's a really great that's a great question. I think of it as transplant, but I don't know if that's actually an accurate term, if you're going to use the word replacement, right? So I like that. You call that out. I dig that this is good. These are good word definitely. Like, I'm learning, I am learning Spanish. I am surely trying to learn Spanish. I'm not good at it, right? But then you start to learn, like, the meaning of separate words, and it, it makes a difference. So I like this. Let's clarify it. This is what I think is happening when FMT enters the system. We call it fecal microbiota transplant, because they truly see it as a transplantation of one ecosystem into somebody else's ecology. When we do pre post assessment of it, we will see shifts and changes, but we don't always see that the donor. A lot of times, people stool will look more like the donors and it does their own stool. But it doesn't necessarily mean we've wiped out what was there, right? It doesn't mean that we've pulled something out and put something in, which is what replace would ultimately say, right? We're not necessarily doing that. What's fascinating about microbes and what I think is really happening, and I think that this is going to become more clear as testing becomes more clear, because we're starting to see like PCR was and is gold standard for different types of microbial identification, right? And then we're starting to see shotgun sequencing, which gave us a lot more information, like 16 S ribosomal sequencing, we were able to be like, Okay, there's actually more there than we thought. And then from there, we're actually now able to do whole genome sequencing, which shows us an even bigger picture. And so we're starting to learn, but what we're finding on the other side of whole genome sequencing is metabolomics and seeing what are the small molecules that are being created. I don't think we're replacing the metabolomics of the biome when we're bringing an fmt. I think what we're actually doing is, I think that we are bringing in microbes who have the genetics to be able to introduce metabolites into the system that may not be there already. So I think that the way that that's happening is through things like horizontal gene transfer, right where one microbe will be able to line up next to that biofilm inside of our digestive tract, because we have to remember, most of these microbes are existing in a biofilm, right? And so as they're there, it can kind of line up against that sidewall and share its genetic information, I think, with metabolomics, as we start to see what metabolites exist in the system, I would be very curious to ask the question of how metabolites shift after a fecal transplant, because I think it's more about what the ecosystem is making than it is the names of the bugs that reside in that ecosystem. And so I don't think it's actual replacement, even though I think that's a way that some people can visualize it to try and make it makes sense. I think it's a lot more intricate than that, and I do think that there are bugs that do stick around like as this microbial ecosystem comes in, we do see that. We do see the biome shifting in a way where we are bringing in new microbial species. But it doesn't necessarily mean we've taken out the pre existing and we've put in the new especially when we think again about that primary research study on Ziff infection. If we can just give FMT at the beginning of an infectious illness and support the existing community around it, and effectively stop C Diff from being in its infectious state, pretty cool, right? Like we can support the ecosystem around. So that's what I think FMT is really doing, is it's bringing in genetic support, genetic backup, and in that, yes, we are acquiring more members to the community, but we're not necessarily replacing out the old.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:58
So what's the biggest misconception that you hear, you know, you you were at the lecture that we, you gave here in Reno, you know, a month ago or so ago and and so. So everybody comes in with what, you know, their idea of what it is that you're, you're doing, but what So, what do you hear that is, is totally wrong.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:20
Yeah. I mean, oh, man,

Speaker 6  1:36:24
I think the biggest issue with FMT is that people think it's a panacea and that it is going to solve all their problems, and we just do not know enough about it at this moment in time like I think that we are able to influence and stimulate and shift people's microbiomes with fecal transplant, but I don't always. There are times where people don't have the response that they're expecting, and I think that's the biggest misconception. Is that people will read an n of one where somebody had a miraculous something happen, and that's what their expectation is coming into it, is that they're going to have some miraculous something. I think what's interesting about fecal transplant is that I don't think we actually know how to actualize the impact of fecal transplant. And I don't know how to say that other than, let's talk about some germ free mouse science, because germ free mice teach us a lot about what the microbiome can and cannot do in a body. And when we look at germ free mice, so mice that have no microbiome, or an absence of a microbiome, coming into life, because they've been like, totally manipulated by lab technique, right? So they come in and they're sterile. And then we take their we take the biome of a wild type mouse, and we put it into their digestive tract. And then we've got some who have none of the wild type and then we have some who do, and we compare, like, what happens? Like, what's the difference if we transplant a diverse ecosystem into a mouse that doesn't have that what happens? And a lot of those studies are kill studies, right? Like, they'll go a couple weeks, they'll weigh organ size, they'll look at different things, they'll analyze different things, and they kind of call it a day. But there was one study that came out, and I was in the last few years, I can't remember the year on it, but they did a six week follow up. Actually, it was an it was like a 10 week follow up, but at six weeks was when they saw significant shifts and changes happening in the small intestine and the large intestine of the mice. Mice only live two and a half to three years. We have a lifespan of 75 to 80 years, so there's a significant difference, right? But when you follow a mouse for 10 weeks, that can translate to months or years in a human lifespan, right? It's it's hard, because when we look at my or we look at animal research to human research, it doesn't always translate, but we do our best to make inferences, and so that's what we're trying to do here. And what's interesting about this mouse research is that they give this transplant, they see the kind of acute, quick impacts, right? The kind of shifts and like, oh, their bowels looked like they were firmer. Okay, cool. But then six weeks in which, again, for a mouse, is this significant period, period of time in their life, they started to see that the small intestine. So what's interesting about the small intestine versus the large intestine is that the small intestine sloughs off its mucus layer a lot more readily than the large intestine does in a healthy GI tract, right? We're talking healthy physiology. This is what healthy gi looks like. Small Intestine has all this mucus that's easily sloughed off. So it can grab some of the stuff that we're not, not necessarily digesting. It can grab the organisms that come in that we don't maybe they survive the stomach acid, but we can bind them up in some mucus and send them down into the colon. So it's sloughing as like a protective mechanism. In a healthy colon, we have two layers of that mucus that is not as excited to slough off. There is more of a protective barrier. It's going to help be a little bit more discerning about what comes in and what goes out. We don't have the assistance of the brush border in the large intestine, right? So the mucus layer has a more important job there in a dysbiotic gut, or in a gut that is not healthy physiology, we almost see that swap, where we see the small intestine starting to create more of a thicker mucus layer, because that brush border is now under attack. And so the mucus is coming in as a way to start protecting the brush border, because there's inflammation, and it's trying to heal those tight gap junctions, right? And so it's creating more mucus, which is actually inhibiting our ability to absorb some nutrients, inhibiting our ability to have that slough off, ease of digestion in that small intestine. Conversely, in the large intestine, when somebody is also in that more dysbiotic or diseased state or not healthy physiology, we see a thinning of that mucus layer because it doesn't, it doesn't have that same capability to hold on and protect itself. It's dealing with so much of the other stuff that's coming through that hasn't necessarily been picked up by the first mucus layer of the small intestine. It's wild, right? So we see all these shifts. When we look at the germ free mice, we see that more dysbiotic mucus sloughing, but at that six week mark after they had received fecal transplant from wild type mice, long term outcome with mice, six weeks they actually saw that shift in the mucus layer where the small intestine started to slough off the way it was meant to the large intestine held on the way it was meant to. Six weeks after therapy, no additional therapy, no additional intervention, they were just watching impacts from the FMT. That makes my brain spin, because I see patients who have taken fecal transplant, and I have one individual who really very limited in food sources and ability to expand their diet, and I see a lot of that right, like I see a lot of patients who've been through that cyclical round of SIBO care, or they've been On the other side of Lyme care, and they just can't seem to get their body back to tolerating foods. So we did some fecal transplant. What was interesting is that they were able to increase their food consumption. But what was fascinating is that a potential side effect of fecal transplant is anaphylaxis. I have never actually seen anaphylaxis in my clinical practice, but it's a theoretical risk. It's on all my consent forms. And this individual, when they took fecal transplant, called me a couple hours after, and they were like, my lip feels like it's kind of starting to swell, like I'm almost feel like I'm having some sort of an allergic reaction. So I had them taken antihistamine. And it was really interesting, because this individual, I've seen this now a handful of times, and as I start to diversify some of these individuals biomes, because they're so depleted that when they get that signal from the biome, it can almost be like an anaphylaxis or a hyper reaction of the immune system. It rarely goes into actual anaphylaxis, but it's something to be aware of when we start to play in this space. Is that a lot of times that signal is like, suddenly the system's like, cool, but it doesn't have enough direction to take it where it needs to go. So we still need to continue to work on it, but that's a side tangent. Yeah, yeah. Mouse research,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:43
okay, does the carnivore diet alter the microbiome?

Unknown Speaker  1:43:47
Yeah, I'm sure it does. Absolutely

Bill Clearfield  1:43:50
question in the chat, yeah, how about sourdough bread?

Unknown Speaker  1:43:55
I love, love,

Speaker 6  1:43:57
love, love sourdough bread, like on such a wonderful level, if you can tolerate wheat, right? And I like sourdough, I make it myself. So when I my my sourdough starter actually came from my very first donor, when I very first started doing fecal transplant in my own clinic. And this individual was a baker, and part of their baking was teaching people how to cook sourdough bread, and so when I first onboarded them, they brought me some of their starter, which was 15 years old at the time, and is now 23 years old. So it's just wild to me, but sourdough is amazing. What's so cool about sourdough is that you've got the lactate, lactic acid fermentation, so you're getting some of that additional one. Like, when you eat sourdough bread, it's not like you're eating any other bread, like it's so much more filling, like it has a density to it. It has texture to it. There's pre digestion to it. It's got firm like it is a fermented food. And I think about the importance of fermented foods and how traditionally, in many different cultures, that's what's kept people's biomes healthy, if you can tolerate it. I think the hardest part about sourdough here in the US, again, goes back to our agricultural practices. So just making sure you get really good flour, organic, trying to keep that bread as healthy as possible. But I'm a big fan. I like it

Bill Clearfield  1:45:31
a lot. What about any adverse events? What? What should we know about that

Speaker 6  1:45:36
in regard to fecal transplant, or in regard to humans,

Speaker 2  1:45:40
or both? Well, fecal transplants, okay,

Speaker 6  1:45:43
adverse events, the biggest one would be things like anaphylaxis. Honestly, the biggest concern in the world of fecal transplant, of what I do, because I'm doing frozen oral capsules, biggest risk is choking like or somebody who can't swallow a capsule, so it's pretty low risk. I mean, when you look at the data, fecal transplant started in fourth century China, so it's been around for a long time, and they were feeding it to people as Golden soup slurry, where they would basically take the stool and mush it up and serve it to you as like, you've got gastritis, let's feed you healthy stool from somebody in the village. We're much more sophisticated today in what we can do, but it also makes me think about all of the things that we do that we think are making a big difference, right? Like survivability of a microbe, like a lot of like the the capsules that I make are triple encapsulated, right? And the the reason behind that is so that it's can survive and get into the large intestine and populate the large intestine, because that's where the majority of our microbiome, our microbiome is, is in the large intestine, and they used to feed it to people, and they would eat it orally, and those microbes would go through the stomach acid, through the small intestine, and still have a positive impact. So a lot of times people, and I guess this would actually go back to your previous question. A lot of people think FMT is going to give them SIBO, and even with the triple encapsulation process, where it is meant to be delivered to the large intestine. I don't see SIBO very often. I do see bloating. And I think now, because SIBO is or bloating is a symptom of SIBO, a lot of times people will be like, I'm bloated. It gave me SIBO, and it's like, no, no. It's transient, like, I'll give people some bitters. It's like some liquid tincture bitters, and have them utilize those for the first two to four weeks after FMT therapy. And Bloating is not an issue after that, like it's something that we can easily retrain the system out of. But that's that is one of the number one things I talk to my patients about when they're doing fecal transplant is, like, you're likely going to experience some bloating. Let's make sure we've got bitters before you start therapy. As you do start therapy, you can take them 15 minutes before meals, or every 15 minutes when you are bloated. It's a really great way to help one educate and train the digestive tract. One of the things that I think we forget about with bitter herbs is that they talk to the taste receptors on our tongue, the bitter receptors on our tongue, which then send a signal to the brain, which then sends a signal from the brain down to all of our excretory organs that are part of the digestive tract. So it's a top down approach, teaching all of the all of the GI tract to prepare, right, like, prepare for the food that's coming, prepare for what's happening, and move downward, right? So a lot of times when we've got bloating, it can be that there's reduced motility, and it can also be, what's cool about these herbs is that there's carminatives, and so a lot of the herbs will come in and as a carminative it breaks down the gas. That's the definition of a carminative herbs. And so what's nice is that those are some of the things that I do with patients to mitigate side effects. But I would say above and beyond, biggest side effect would be bloating with patients with C diff, oftentimes I will have a discharge where they'll have like, two or three days after FMT, things are going well, and then it just seems like the remnants come out. Like, I have no other word for it than that, so that's pretty normal, but I just warn patients about it, because it's almost like the final discharge, like the system's getting rid of what's left over in there. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:42
So when you do this for for a patient, is it a one time only, or is there like a repeat?

Speaker 6  1:49:50
It depends. With C diff. Specifically, I'm starting to see and watch C Diff become much more virulent. I'm also watching what's interesting is so much in the legal realm has happened around fecal transplant therapy just because of the pharmaceutical sphere, right? So rebiota came in with a drug in late 2022 which changed the ability for providers like me at the time, I could distribute to you, right? Like if you had a seat of patient, I could send you fecal transplant and you could give it to your patient. It wasn't a big deal, but rebiota came out and said, Now there was a drug, and so the drug is the opportunity. And I've had patients come to me who've failed these drugs in terms of treatment with C diff. If I've had somebody fail voust or fail rebiota, or they've had C Diff more than three to four occurrences, I go straight to two bottles worth of fecal transplant like I don't mess around, purely because what I do see is that more frequency and repetition, especially with a more virulent organism, generally leads to a better outcome for the patient, meaning they don't have to come back for more. FMT, if we do two bottles where they take 3030, capsules on an empty stomach after being fasted the day before, that's standard C Diff treatment. When I do more of a two bottle dosing plan, I'll do 3010 10 and 10. So the 30 capsules are on an empty stomach. Day 110, capsules empty stomach. Day two, three and four, and that's standard therapy for C diff. When we look at the literature for other conditions, when we're looking at the autism study, when we're looking at studies for alternative colitis or Crohn's disease, that's really when you're looking at something more like a long term dosing strategy, so a therapeutic dosing strategy. And in those trials, they're usually looking at four to eight weeks, and they are the autism trial was daily dosing, where they were giving the kiddos small daily dose after giving a large bolus dose on day one. And then other trials, when they're looking at things like Crohn's or ulcerative colitis, they're looking at weekly dosing, where they'll do a large bolus dose and then smaller, but still bolus type doses one day a week, every week for four, 812, weeks. And so to answer that question is hard, because it's really the answer is, what are we treating and what are we trying to accomplish with therapy? When we're looking at an infectious agent like C diff, you're under a week of therapy, right? You're looking at like, anywhere from one to four days that you're taking FMT, if you're looking at more chronic, long, long term, complex illness, it's an unknown, right? There's a lot of unknowns, and there are a lot of other variables there where it could be, well, let's try a four week type of style where maybe you do that larger bolus dose, which, again, I come from the C Diff space. So a large bullish dose in my world is 30 capsules on an empty stomach. So I would maybe do that, and then I would do each week following, maybe do five or 10, five or 10 to see how things go. I think that with some of that data in the mice trials that we've been able to look at recently, it makes me wonder if that that type of intervention, say it is four weeks, say it is eight weeks, if we do pre post testing and then test again in a year and decide if we want to continue therapy, because I just don't Think we know enough yet, and I think that we often assume that it's going to be an overnight cure. I think that's another misconception with FMT, is that it's going to be a change overnight, because with C diff, it can be a change overnight. You can go from 20 bowel movements and have it be watery and nasty and horrible, and the next day have a solid stool, and it's like, that's a miracle for people, and so they're shouting from the rooftops. And that feels great, and I love it for those patients, when we're looking at things more in the complex chronic illness space, that's not always the story, right? Sometimes it is. Sometimes it's like, the first week I had, like, the first solid stool my life, and then it went back to diarrhea. It's like, okay, cool. Now we need to continue to make sure that we're dealing with sleep, we're dealing with stress, we're dealing with making sure you're getting enough water, like all of the lifestyle stuff, right? Because that's another part of it.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:36
Okay, what about,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:39
do you have any outcomes for things like, you know, we read about the gut brain axis, the gut skin axis. Have used these, your these transplants for, and, you know, to chronic depression, say, or, you know, chronic, you know, eczema, those kinds of things.

Speaker 6  1:54:58
Yeah. I mean, I've seen, I've seen mental health shift overnight for people, which, again, I this is where I'm like, I have to make sure I'm very careful with how I say it right. Because I'm like, people think it's a panacea, and they think it's an overnight shift. And then I'm like, Oh yeah, I've had a major depressive disorder shift overnight. It can happen, and I have seen it, and it gave me faith in mental health in a way that I'm just like, whoa, like the gut brain axis is very real. I mean, one of my earliest cases in practice was a woman in her mid 60s who had had C diff. She was on like, her third or fourth recurrence. She had gotten some sort of MRSA infection and had to take clindamycin, which then led her down the C Diff path, right? And so she ended up in my office, and she was talking to me about all the C Diff recurrences, but also letting me know that she'd had major depressive disorder and she'd been institutionalized multiple times in her past, and that she was she was like, I'm there. Like, it's dark. Things do not feel good mentally. I was like, well, we need to deal with the infection, so let's do that. And that what, you know, when I'm dosing FMT, I'm trying to call my patients to check in with them. So I gave her the FMT. She took it in office. She went home. The next day, I called her to ask her how she was feeling, and she was like, well, mostly I wanted to ask her what her bowel movements were like, you know? So I was like, hey, like, give me an update. How are your bowels? And she's like, I don't want to like, I don't want to talk about that. Is this what it feels like to be happy? I was like, No freaking way. So that was really cool, you know, I can see those shifts. I think somebody had asked about Parkinson's. I you know, Parkinson's is tough. I have had one person in my practice who tried FMT had Parkinson's, and it didn't make the shifts that we were hoping for. Again, it was a single bottle therapy, right? And it's it's asking that question of, what are you treating when I look at some of these long term chronic illnesses, and I'm looking at the fecal transplant data, if I'm actually treating Parkinson's, if that was something that I were legally allowed to do with fecal transplant, then it would be I would be looking at probably four but more like an eight week protocol where we would do three to four bottles worth of FMT to really help continue to reintroduce that biome and continue to support it. But again, that's not always the reality of our world. I'm a naturopathic doctor. I do specialize in GI but I don't call myself a gastroenterologist. I'm a naturopathic doctor that specializes in fecal transplant and microbiome therapeutics, okay,

Speaker 7  1:57:50
I thought I wanted to ask if, if you are doing colonoscopy, because you said no, no, because that's why I thought for fecal transplant. Who's doing the colonoscopy?

Speaker 6  1:58:05
Dr Sabine is on down in the Bay Area, to my knowledge, is still doing colonoscopic delivery for fecal transplant. I think she stopped for a hot minute, but I think she may be back in action. She works very closely with the FDA, and so she's constantly working on creating investigational new drug trials, and I think right now, her big push is doing familial fecal transplant in the autism space, where she's looking at families of kids who families who have kids with autism, and then she's looking at the biomes of the Whole family, because she also has a GI testing company so she can look at that right? That's part of her requirement when she brings people into her research studies, and she can map out the genomes of the family, and then she can match from the family to give FMT to the person who has autism. And so she's doing research right now in her clinic around that I don't know how much of her practice is seeing patients and doing colonoscopic delivery. I think she's pretty focused in research. But I, I would, you'd reach out to her name's Dr Sabine, has on I wouldn't, I wouldn't know enough from there. I just, I think she's fascinating, and I'm always curious when she speaks so

Speaker 7  1:59:22
and I want to ask a question, like I used to, actually, I'm affiliated with love biome, but now they change to life Vantage, I think. And they have some powder, six grams of powder, with fibers and enzymes. They have enzymes and a lot of billions of colonies of bacteria, and everyone feels very good with love biome, but now they change. It was bought by another company. What do you think about microbiome labs? About colonizing the gut? Like Dr Campbell. He likes microbiome labs, spores, yeah.

Speaker 6  2:00:06
I mean, I so this is where I need to be very transparent. I work for a supplement company, right? So I work for SFI health, which used to be Claire labs, so we have our whole probiotic line there, right? But I've worked in the microbiome space, and I've used microbiome labs many times. I've used metagenics different times. I've used designs for help. I've used all kinds of different probiotics, right? I think at the end of the day, what we do see in terms of colonization, because that, that was part of your question. We see more colonization with things like probiotics in the infant gut. So we're able to see like, if you're going to supplement something like Bifidobacterium for babes, you're going to see that stick around more in the infant gut than you are in the adult gut, you'll see more of a transient species in the adult gut, where, once it's established, that's where something like, it's kind of like, going back to Bill's question earlier, where, like, what is actually happening with fecal transplant? Is it actually replacing? I think that same theory or philosophy of how we answered that with probiotics, is somewhat similar, right, except at a much smaller scale, probiotics are anywhere from one to what 20 species ish, if we're going to look at the range of what's available in the market, some of them are spore formers. Some of them are, you know, acid resistant. Some are anaerobe some are. Most of them are not. Most are aerobes, right? Because it's what we can culture and colony. But it's super interesting to look at and think about these microbes enter the digestive tract, right? So we've got an established ecosystem. Some of them may have something that our ecosystem finds appealing. And you probably see this where you've given a probiotic that works for all of your patients, and you give it to one patient, it doesn't do anything for them, right? Because that's the reality of probiotics. Some of them are going to work for some patients, some are going to work for others. And the question of, well, why doesn't this one work for this patient? I think, is a bigger question, because I think it comes down to what the microbiome is or is not making. And so if we have a microbe that can create a metabolite that this person's gut is deficient in, right? So say it's your gut or a patient's gut, whoever it is you're trying to treat, this is their gut. We put this microbe in it, and this microbe has the ability to produce more acetate, right? So it's a short chain fatty acid producer. It can produce more more acetate, if this system is deplete in acetate, and that new genetic information coming in that can be exchanged without necessarily colonizing and taking on the name of that species into that system, but that genetic aspect of that microbe can be passed to the community through horizontal gene transfer. Right horizontal gene transfer. Like looking around at my desk, I'm like, What do I have a package of gum and have a little remote from my my walking treadmill under my desk, right? So these are two microbes. This one say, this one's part of your your biofilm inside of your digestive tract, and this is the probiotic species that's floating through and coming in. It's going to come through. And if this one has a metabolite that this environment is missing, they can line up next to each other, and they can switch. This one can share its genetics with this one, and this one now has the ability to make acetate. Still has the name of the gum, not the remote control. The remote control just passed through, but the genetic information from this is now part of the the system, right? And so sometimes you might do pre post testing and not see a shift in the microbial species, but the patient themselves is like, oh my gosh, I feel better. I think that's where testing is going. I think that's where the probiotic space is going. I think that's where the probiotic space already is, I just don't think we know how to say it, right, like we have, you know, at SFI, we've got therabiotic Complete, which is a 12 species blend, right? And so it's like, okay, cool. There's all these 12 species, and we can read about them in the literature, and they have all these different potential things that they're potentially doing inside of the system. But I'm very curious, if we were to test that probiotic and look, what are the genetics of those 12 species? What are those genes capable of producing? And then when we put those species into the environment, maybe we don't see the species themselves, but do we see those new metabolites now becoming part of an ecosystem that maybe they weren't part of before. And that's why I'm often like, rotate your probiotics, you know, because if you're going to take one, somebody might not feel great on one, because they're not getting that replacement of that metabolite. But then somebody might take another one because they switched it up a little bit. And maybe it's not a 12 strain, maybe it's five, and they take five, and suddenly that one does it for them, and it's like something in there was that lock and key replacement that they didn't have before. And I think that that's why, you know, we talked about, like precision medicine and and I think that it's going to be once we open that door, we're going to start to find that we know even less, because that's been my experience. I don't know about you guys, but I feel like anytime I start to learn something new in this world, and then I start diving in and I'm like, Oh my gosh. And you think you know more, and you think you know more, and then you open another door and you're like, oh shit,

Unknown Speaker  2:05:57
there's a lot more here than I realized.

Speaker 6  2:06:01
The microbiome is the second brain, right? And we've been mapping the brain for over 100 years. And it's nice to say we know 20% and I'm going to say that with gratitude for all the researchers who have done their work. But 20% in 100 years isn't a ton of knowledge about the brain. We just found out, like 25 years ago, that all these other microbial species existed inside of this ecosystem. So like we're babies, we are infants in the space of the microbiome. And I just think that there's going to be so much more that we uncover. And it goes back again to what we were talking about earlier, where if we focus on one bug, we are missing a major picture, because it's so much more complex than that, and I just think that the more we learn, we're going to have more information that points us in that direction.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:51
I don't know if you we actually started an hour before you were here. I think we might have gotten our times crossed up a little. So we've been on for two hours now, and that's usually our our kind of our limit.

Speaker 6  2:07:06
I'm so sorry. I message and asked you what time it started, and I didn't hear back. So I assumed I was right in my assumption.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:14
But one last, one last question. So Dr Serna wants to know where she can get fecal transplants, and how do you measure your microbiome changes?

Speaker 6  2:07:26
Yeah, majority of different ways. So I will either do it really kind of depends on the patient. Patients will often come in having already done microbiome testing. So if they've done like tiny health I'll just have them repeat that. Biggest thing is staying with the same company they've tested with before, so that your information is consistent. I like things that give me diversity scores, though. So I do like tiny health sometimes I'll do Nirvana biome, which is offshoot of Cosmos ID. And so those are two places that I will I'll send testing for when I'm testing my donors, and I need to do qPCR just for the FDA. I'll run it through vibrant or I'll do pathogen panels with them, where you can get fmt. I curate it myself through my own clinical practice. So I have my clinical practice, which is biome basics. I am taking a sabbatical in the next month, so I'll be gone all January, but I will be back in February, so you can always reach out to my front desk, which is hello at biome dash basics.com, that's a place you can go. And then it's, it's kind of, there's a small group of people doing it. Other than that, you can look at baust and rebiota, which are the pharmaceutical, pharmaceutically derived fecal transplant types of options. And I'm sorry, I was late. I didn't realize.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:50
Yeah, I thought you do, but it's okay. We'll get you. That means I'll get you another time. It'll make sure you're here. So one last thing, you mentioned that you make the capsules you mentioned about making capsules. I picture you like in your basement, cooking these things up. Is that? Do I have that wrong?

Speaker 6  2:09:08
Pretty close. It's pretty close. It's in my garage. I think that's a better way. That's where it is. I have a hood. So I have a tabletop hood, and then I have a stainless steel surface I work on. Everything is autoclavable. So my from Blender to anything that is touched, it's either autoclavable or it's a one time use. So my centrifuge tubes are single use plastic tubes. I use mason jar, a narrow mouth mason jar, because you can get stainless steel blender blades that fit it, and then you can put it into like an old blender shoot. So it's old school, it's pretty crafty, but that's where I make it. I've got a centrifuge, I've got an autoclave, I've got my hood, and then I have a freezer. And so everything that has to do with stool is done under the hood, and then I put things in and out of the centrifuge. And, yeah, I spent a weekend. I'll put a podcast on, maybe an audio book, maybe just listen to music and sing along.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:09
But Doctor,

Bill Clearfield  2:10:10
Doctor Nario is watching football games, and you're making fecal transplant capsules.

Speaker 6  2:10:15
Is that right? Capsules? I'm all about it. It's a great weekend,

Bill Clearfield  2:10:21
you know. So how long does it take you to to put together for in case, Doctor scenario needs us with transplant, and he needs to, he needs capsules. How long? How long does it take you to put that put together?

Unknown Speaker  2:10:34
I get a freebie, right?

Speaker 6  2:10:36
Yeah, right. Um, I, you know, it really depends, because I am, I'm such a small practice. It's just me, myself, and I have one donor, and so if this person gets sick or something happens, I could get backlogged just because I'm waiting to re screen them back in, right? So that's one component of this. That's another thing to think about. But ultimately, if I have stool coming in. Usually I stock my freezer and it can it can be within a week or two, but I'm going to be backlogged until I catch back up after my sabbatical. So my my last three bottles will go out tomorrow, and then I'm going to re screen my donor when I get back, and we'll start it's

Bill Clearfield  2:11:19
not, it's not your mother, is it?

Speaker 6  2:11:20
No, you know, this is like, so, yeah, fecal transplant. So in Chinese literature, they always said the best donor is between the ages of eight to 18. And in my prior fecal transplant practice, my business partner felt like everybody should be an adult or older. And then today, I'm kind of like in this kind of happy medium where I won't take anybody under the age of eight, but they have to have parental observation and allowance for that. And then, yeah, so I mean, I look for people who've had as few medical interventions as possible, meaning my current donor, at this moment in time, has only had one antibiotic in their life and never have had a vaccine ever.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:11
So so you're not standing over mom, saying, Come on, Ma, we need some more.

Speaker 6  2:12:16
I mean, I will never pressure somebody to poop. You know, I'm a big fan of, like, let your, like, have a squatty potty, make sure you've got good, like, stool hygiene when you're on the toilet. But, no, I would never do that, but I do. There are times where I'm like, how's it going? And it's like, oh, somebody else in the house got sick, right? Like, if another, if a sibling, gets sick, then I have to think about that too. So it gets kind of complex, and I'm in very close contact with my donor and family, and so

Bill Clearfield  2:12:47
maybe you shouldn't put all your eggs in one basket, you know, sort of metaphorically,

Speaker 6  2:12:52
you know, if it was the only thing I was doing, if my clinical practice was all I was doing, I wouldn't just have one donor. But because it's not the only thing I'm doing, one makes more sense, and it's something I can very like. I can watch it and control it, okay? And I'm, I'm pretty strict about my donor screening. Like, I think people forget that with FMT, it's like going, if you're on an organic diet, you look at the raw material going into your diet. If you're going to diet, some capsules. You want to know who, Who pooped that out?

Bill Clearfield  2:13:26
Well, we had the good stuff when we had our conference, right? Dr Naria, well, we

Speaker 1  2:13:31
didn't get the poop stuff. We better get Piper in there. We'll do it.

Speaker 6  2:13:35
Let's make it happen. I'm down to talk poo anytime with you. All right. All right, thanks guys. Sorry for being late.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:42
That's okay. Thank you so much. I got, I got to pontificate on vitamin C and hormones, but while you were,

Speaker 2  2:13:49
Oh, fantastic. Oh, well, then shoot, I'm sad I missed it. Well, thank you guys, good to see you all.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:55
Gonna send you the video. So,

Speaker 6  2:13:58
all right, the second hour, awesome. Thank you so much. We'll talk soon.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:03
Thank you so much. Okay, okay, all right, everybody, it's New Year's almost New Year's Eve, so we made it through another year, and I have this crazy idea that I'm going to, either myself or somebody else is going to take all our videos from the last year and curate them and come up with, like a booklet of the sort of the best of the best of our group, since Dr Halas has got his AI that he can he can do that with so, so anybody's got an any ideas on that? So all of our videos probably about, I couldn't say, I won't say all, but most of our videos are either on YouTube or on our own channel. And so there's a lot of information on there. You know, we've been doing this for over five years now, and there's a lot, there's a lot of good, good, solid, you know, integrative medicine in there. And it's a shame that it sort of sits in the in the Ethernet there when we should try and draw it out so that maybe that could be a project for us. Dr Nario, so I know you have nothing better to do.

Speaker 1  2:15:11
No nothing. I'm just slacking off. Alright?

Bill Clearfield  2:15:15
Anybody, anybody have any, anything they'd like to say, and anybody have any, you have any speakers that you want us to try and twist their arm to get here and or some, some of that we've had in the past? I'm trying to get in touch with Dr McCullough again, but it looks like his email that we had from before. My contact doesn't work now, so I'll see if I can find them. So now that he's, now that he's, you know, rich and famous. So, so, so thank you all for being here, you know, for throughout the year, and next year is going to be even better, okay? And yes, we are already thinking about the next live conference. So stay tuned. If you, if you are at the conference and you, you have a year to get the CME credit to apply for it, so it'll be good until next, beginning of next December. If you don't have the links, let me know to get the certificate, if you weren't at the conference, it's $199 you get all the videos, and you can get the CME credits also. It's 20 ama category one CME credits for $199 you can't beat that. And you get to hear Dr Nario, amongst others, speaking and Dr Levy, and, you know, all of the great speakers that we had, I've gotten, I haven't gotten one naysayer. I haven't gotten one negative comment, which is pretty unusual. It's from, you know, you know, it's like herding cats.

Speaker 1  2:17:00
They want to attend. The next one, they say something good.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:03
We're not going to, we're not going to invite them. Oh, it was last week. Sorry. All right, everybody. Have a great holiday. What's left of it? And we'll see you again next week. We have John newstad, who's going to be talking about, you know, he's the bone guy. So we'll, we'll put him on and we'll have him pontificate for us.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:27
Okay, all right, Happy New Year to everyone.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:30
New Year. Same time, same station, next week. Dr, as you saw, dr, dobner got the time wrong, and so we'll, we'll take her out back and straighten her out. Yes, please do. I'm sorry, guys, I thought you were gone. Oh no,

Speaker 6  2:17:49
I'm still here. I'm listening. You weren't supposed to hear that. I needed to hear that. Listen, man, I'm a little sister. I know the sneaky ways, you know, I figured out. But no, I am sorry, guys, I really would have been

Bill Clearfield  2:18:01
It's okay. It's all right,

Unknown Speaker  2:18:05
yeah, well, you

Bill Clearfield  2:18:06
have too much information for us, and you're too smart for us to hold a grudge.

Speaker 6  2:18:11
So thanks, guys. Well, I'm happy to come back anytime. Let me know I love this format, like Question and Answer is my favorite, so I can do that anytime.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:20
Okay, well, wait before you go. Now that you let yourself open. How about, let's go to How about April 21

Speaker 8  2:18:32
Oh, my God, you're hilarious. April 21 Wow, we're really booking it out. Let me look at my calendar one moment,

Unknown Speaker  2:18:41
or Joel will come for you.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:43
Yeah, Joel, Joel, be back in town. You know, he's our leg breaker.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:47
So April 20, I'm nice to sisters, though.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:53
Yeah, and it would be 5pm

Bill Clearfield  2:18:57
5pm Pacific. Where are you?

Unknown Speaker  2:19:00
I'm in Mountain Time, but that doesn't mean that I can't get it popped in here.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:08
So it's six o'clock your time, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:19:12
yeah, all right, five on the 21st got it? Yeah, I'm put you in here. Okay? I got you send me the zoom the day before. I will.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:25
I will. All right, thank you. Thank you so much. And if you're ever in the Reno let me know if you're in the Reno

Speaker 2  2:19:29
area again. Okay, for sure, I will. I'll keep you posted.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:33
Okay, everybody, all right. So have a again, great. Have a great holiday, and we're going to do even we're going to do even better next year. Okay, I will send you the video when it's ready. I'll send you the participant list. And everybody have a great, great holiday. I'll see you soon. Good night.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:51
Bye, everybody. Right?

Speaker 2  2:19:55
Hey, Joe, yeah. Are you when you

Speaker 5  2:20:02
coming home? You It's a loaded question. I need to come home. I'm pretty much burnt out down here. All right.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:14
Well, I got a spot for you. If you need

Speaker 5  2:20:17
me, you betcha. Thank you very much. I'll get catch up with you a little bit. I just talked to Christy today, and I do have to do some labs with you. Okay.

Speaker 2  2:20:26
All right, yeah. All right, so let me know. Let me know when you, when you're when you're back. Okay. Will do okay? All right. Everybody, good night. Bye. Everybody.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai