Speaker 1  00:00
Testosterone levels at seven to 900 total two to 4% free are actually quite good. I'm trying to get back here so it's not letting me. I'm gonna, I'm gonna do this because I messed that up. Okay, sorry about that. So so the same lab for females normal is two to 45 I assure you that you have a female with a with a a testosterone level of 10, they will have low testosterone symptoms. If you have a patient of testosterone of 45 they will have testosterone excess 30 to 40 is optimal. Total for females, 700 to 900 for males, sex hormone binding globulin was poorly understood at one time. This is the transport protein that carries testosterone to the tissues. It's measured in nanomoles per liter. There's a number of ways to figure out free testosterone. I find that the free testosterone that's calculated from the labs is not very accurate. I like doing free androgen index. This is you take the sex hormone binding globulin, multiply it by point 288, for conversion factor. That's your denominator, your total testosterone is your, is your, is your, your, your numerator and what? What we're going to see is a normal of 30 to 130 for males, optimal, about 53, to 108 for females, the calculation is a little bit off here. The calculation should be 0.4 to 8.4 for normal and optimal of about almost three to six, but two to 4% is actually a bit more accurate and bit more reliable to lower the sex hormone binding globulin. We like boron is, you know, is a mineral, and this will lower sex hormone,

Speaker 1  02:19
I think, audio, yes, hello, I think we lost him. He'll be back. It happens sometimes with his server, you

Speaker 1  02:40
I'll go ahead and text him, just in case he doesn't know I can

Speaker 1  03:06
you hear me now? There we got you. Yes, okay, sorry about that. My internet, I don't know what's wrong with it. It always it junks out. So somebody let me know. Where were we? Free. Androgen. Index did you get that looks about right to the female index. Okay, last, the last line in the previous slide. Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  04:31
Hi, Dr Cano,

Bill Clearfield  04:40
how are you doing? Oh, I'm doing fine. Yeah,

Speaker 2  04:43
today, boy, I'm not ready. Yeah, is anybody? Does anybody have anything they can talk about?

Bill Clearfield  04:56
I can always, I can always come up with something. Okay,

Speaker 2  04:59
no, because I boy, but Well, we can manage. I think we can do it. You

Bill Clearfield  05:08
sure? I mean, I have, I have a talk on labor, laboratory of functional medicine. I can do that. We haven't done that one.

Speaker 2  05:17
Yeah, if you know, because I really, this is an important topic, and I really would like to to do a good job. Well,

Bill Clearfield  05:28
it looked like it looked like it was from some book that you had written. Yes,

Speaker 2  05:35
okay, but it took me a while to put all these slides together. I have it all, but I didn't even get it time to review it and see what is in there.

Bill Clearfield  05:47
Well, that's, that's we, we kind of use this as a practice run, so at least I do,

Speaker 2  05:52
okay, that's okay. I'll try. I

Bill Clearfield  05:55
mean, if you really don't think you're ready, I mean, like I said, I can do one on laboratory. I can do what I'm going to do. Going to do for ammg, the other talk that I'm doing. So, I mean, so don't, don't feel pressured. If you you know, if you're, if you're, I can, I can. I can get Stefan to do what he did last night for for Doctor halasa.

Speaker 3  06:18
I've got more where that came from. I can give you any lecture you want. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  06:23
well, me too. So I can do the one that I'm doing for ammg, that you guys are going to show up at on Thursday morning, right? The 20

Unknown Speaker  06:31
Yeah, you're going to get me into that one. I'll show up. I'll

Bill Clearfield  06:34
get you the April 24 I'll get you in. Alright,

Speaker 3  06:41
come hang out with me and halasa. I rented a big Airbnb. We have a grill. We have a pool. It's,

Bill Clearfield  06:48
I Well, I mean, I'm staying at the National I mean, they got a pool there, and it's pretty

Speaker 3  06:54
nice, right? You're staying at the junk around. Is Logan going to be

Bill Clearfield  06:57
with you? Because I got you,

Speaker 3  06:58
yeah, Logan will be there. And my parents were all staying at the Airbnb. My sister will even come, and then all of us will be with halasa. So halasa will be the odd man out there. I think that funny. Can you imagine? I think we should do a reality show just like halasa and us and just LASA

Bill Clearfield  07:18
lives, right? Yeah, it

Unknown Speaker  07:22
would be a, it'd be funny.

Bill Clearfield  07:23
Doctor Gary is going to be late. He's got a class. He's a he's in, he's in his which mccollette class, his Arizona integrative medicine class.

Unknown Speaker  07:36
Is that worth its money?

Unknown Speaker  07:38
That class $35,000

Speaker 3  07:40
I don't know. Why is he doing that? He can learn a lot from us here, more than what? What do they know that we don't know they

Speaker 4  07:46
had a degree. Andrew will, yeah, yeah. So he's learning from Andrew Dr, Andrew will, who's kind of like, you know, one of the beginning founders of this type of stuff, to be honest. I don't know if it's worth 35,000 though, for two years, wow, two years, okay? 15 a year. Yeah, that's yeah. Well,

Bill Clearfield  08:18
what can I tell you. So I mean, I'm doing, I did the I finished it already. I did it in four weeks. The the ifms introductory course, they have it online. They're still, they're still blocking estrogens, by the way, they haven't flipped yet. Yeah,

Speaker 2  08:48
if I don't do it today, when? When can I do it?

Unknown Speaker  08:55
Let's see.

Bill Clearfield  08:57
I got Marlene Jones. I got there. Have seen I You're not going to see this until it's like 60, 7080, but we started looking at low prolactin levels, and again, we get this one just on every patient at least once,

Speaker 2  09:10
less than six. This is indicative of a treatment resistant anxiety and depression. We learned this from Doctor Gordon in his

Bill Clearfield  09:18
his traumatic brain injury series. And that's pretty accurate. And at

Unknown Speaker  09:25
one time, I used to do a long time

Bill Clearfield  09:27
ago, I used to do physical exams

Speaker 2  09:29
and reports for I said this, the topic is so much more important than that. Don't really want to butcher it. I want to make sure that we go through it well and for everybody to understand how all these cholesterol stuff

Bill Clearfield  09:48
work. Okay, so in that case, I guess I'm up again.

Unknown Speaker  09:56
I can show you

Bill Clearfield  09:59
leverage laboratory of functional medicine or basic male hormone optimization, lab

Unknown Speaker  10:07
of lab, lab of functional medicines,

Bill Clearfield  10:10
okay, okay,

Speaker 3  10:15
labs of functional medicine, yeah, those are Good optimal reference ranges,

Unknown Speaker  10:19
right? Well,

Bill Clearfield  10:22
I'm going to talk more about the test, not not just the reference ranges. So okay, okay, all right, so we'll go through. So I have 11 tests that we go through, and I didn't get to part two yet, so I didn't do organic. Organic, what's organic? Oat, whatever that is, or the Dutch test. Those are two that I didn't get to, but I so Okay, so we'll do that, and hopefully you'll, you'll like the Not, not you you

Bill Clearfield  11:02
paid. You paid the price to get in, right,

Bill Clearfield  11:11
Joe, I muted you accidentally there.

Unknown Speaker  11:18
So okay, so I'm good now,

Bill Clearfield  11:22
okay, all right, make you to you're the co host, right? Do we get somebody else? Are you good? You're okay,

Unknown Speaker  11:32
you betcha, right. So

Bill Clearfield  11:34
that a little change in schedule, everybody? I hope, hope it's not too disappointing. But Doctor Tanno, you know, is a perfectionist, and if he's not perfect, he he doesn't want to bring forth misinformation. So we're going to reschedule him, and I'm going to be doing the laboratory of functional medicine. I hope that's acceptable, and if not, well, not we can, we'll return your your entry fee. That's free, exactly. So I hope that's okay, alright. So Well, it's a little bit after five. We got Dr Burgess and Dr Peterson here. Carol Peterson, so let me get this up here for you, and you got that? You see that now? Got it okay? All right, I hope that's okay for everybody. So we had a last minute change here. So, Dr Tano, you're on for June 3. Absolutely

Speaker 2  12:52
that I cannot back out for sure.

Bill Clearfield  12:55
No, you can't. We're going to send, somebody, I promise, I promise. We're going to send our leg breaker up to Minnesota to take care of you. Otherwise,

Unknown Speaker  13:10
that's right, wrong.

Bill Clearfield  13:13
Okay, we'll let you off the hook today. But yes,

Speaker 2  13:16
thank you. Thank you for doing that. But I promise everybody that you know, June 3, I would deliver

Unknown Speaker  13:27
Amen. That's a ways out.

Bill Clearfield  13:31
Yeah, well, we, we're scheduled up, you know, until then. So you got all of, all of April and May already covered. Okay? And so, so we're good to go. Yeah,

Speaker 4  13:47
you don't, you don't want to send in the Marines. Right,

Unknown Speaker  13:51
right. Okay, all right.

Unknown Speaker  13:56
So let us,

Bill Clearfield  14:00
Joe, you'll let folks in. Yes. Okay, definitely. So thanks. Thank you, everybody. We've had a little change in schedule today. Dr Tano didn't feel as his lecture was quite ready. So I'm going to, I'm going to present today the laboratory of functional medicine. And I'm sure you're going to find this interesting. And hopefully you'll learn a few, a few new tricks and things to things to look look out for. And so markers. The LP PLA to is plaque vulnerability, the myeloperoxidases, plaque rupture, so that's much worse there. So, so if they're positive, they're they're the lab values that are positive there. And we like things like niacin, omega three fatty acids, and yes, statins and fibrates for the LP PLA for the Myeloperoxidase. We're using, again, quercetin that we mentioned before, pomegranate seeds, and pomegranate seeds, remember, will also raise testosterone levels, curcumin and aged garlic. So those are the labs studies that we do. Those are the serum lab studies. Couple other ones that are used, used specifically in the A lot of times in the cancer clinics, LDH. LDH will convert lactate into pyruvate. And I remember way back when LDH was part of the See, see CMP, but they've taken it out of there now, LDH is indicative of tissue damage. Normal is about 120 to 220 but the real value of LDH is you can you can do LDH ISO enzymes one through five. And as you can read there, the LDH ISO enzymes one through five are indicative of damage to particular organs. So one and two deal with the cardiac damage, renal damage and red blood cell abnormalities. LDH three is for lung and internal organ tissues. LDH four is for white cells, lymph nodes, the pancreas and kidneys, and LDH five is for the liver and skeletal muscle. They're the normal values there over on the right. And so this will give you some insight into what types of tissue issues that you're dealing with. A couple of other tips here, disease progression, sed rate, which I didn't mention, don't do that very often, plus C reactive protein, plus LDH, each increasing numbers and each measuring period is indicative of increasing disease load. When all three are high, you have a chronic or acute inflammation with systemic diseases, elevated CRP plus sed rate. With a normal LDH is an inflammation or infection without tissue damage, and an elevated CRP, LDH, and a normal said rate is tissue damage with cell lysis. So again, little tips and tricks you know to sort of get, keep you ahead of the game. MCH is mean corpuscular hemoglobin. This is, this will be. These are the ones on this page are all on in your CBC. These are things we look at these numbers every day and don't, don't, you know, pay any attention to them. Sometimes they're flagged high, and someone will ask about it. So MCH mean, corpuscular hemoglobin when it's high as a B 12 deficiency. Macrocytic anemia when it's low, that's indicative of leaky gut with a diminished absorption of vitamins b6 zinc and magnesium and probably copper, also MCH being corpuscular. Hemoglobin is MCHC. When it's high, this is a methylation defect, and when it's low, it's a hypochromatic anemia, leaky gut and spherocytosis. Red blood cell distribution measures variation in red blood cell sizes when it's high, this is an indicative of oxidative stress, anemia, Thalassemia and chronic diseases. When it's low, it's pretty that's kind of rare, not no correlation. Low red cells plus low hematocrit plus low hemoglobin plus low platelets, is bone marrow suppression and nutrient What's that neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio? You want that to be about two to one? It's an inflammatory process. If it's greater than that, and if it's closer to one to one, that's an immune suppression or or an allergic type reaction. Monocytes, when they're high, viral infections, poor, NK cell function and autoimmune disease. Low, is an immune dysfunction and sepsis, eosinophils, high, it's allergies, infections, cancers, parasites and alcohol abuse. And low is actually UCL cenophils as normal basophils when they're high. This is a histamine containing cell. These are your mast cell. This is your mast cell activation. High in allergies. It's protected. It's protecting against parasites, Venom, bites and hyperthyroidism. And when it's low, it's there's injury, usually tissue injury or cancer. High base of fills, high monocytes and high eosinophils is a parasitic gut infection. So again, another, another sort of little clinical tip, urine NTX or serum CTX are are high within increased bone resorption, osteoporosis, hyperparathyroidism, Paget disease, multiple myeloma and metastatic disease. You can see the levels there are pretty wide. So again, we go with our optimals. Low NTX levels is a shows that the osteoposis therapy has been effective, and it's there's something called osteopetrosis, which is decreased bone turnover and it's hardened, or abnormal hardening of bone. Um, the calculations I already discussed these, so I won't go over them again. The free t3 times 10 divided by reverse t3 you want that greater than 2.0 this is your cortisol abnormality. It can be high or low. We'll look at the the saliva test in a minute to break that down further, but this gives you a clue that you know this is an issue. We talked about this the tshi index, free insulin resistance index, estrogen, progesterone ratio. When you get that estrogen, progesterone ratio less than 250 these are the symptoms of estrogen excess. And as you can see, that they're all pretty normal here, when it's less than 250 as it rises, we get more symptoms. So that's Estro estrone plus estradiol divided by progesterone. You don't have to correct for the the units here, and we do this all the time. And this is just, this is just an example of that the three androgen index that's total testosterone divided by sex hormone binding globulin, times point 288, at normal for males is 30 to 130 optimal, about 53, to 107 for females, these are the numbers here. But again, practically, we like it about 2.0 to 4.0 and these are the normals here. Again, I just mentioned these. Here are these miscellaneous calculations, high base those high monos, high EOS. That's a parasite. Okay, so again, there's a there's a clue there. Now we're going to look at some of the advanced testing. Anybody have any questions about? Is there any questions about the serum tests? Can you go back about the parasite please? Yeah, high basophils, high monocytes, high eosinophils. That's a parasite. And I talked about earlier what what high was on each one. You need me to go back on that. Yeah, if you can, if you have time, let me find it.

Bill Clearfield  22:42
All right, so here you go.

Bill Clearfield  22:49
So monocytes normal is two to two to 9% high is greater than 7% low is less than two EOS greater than 500 CE cells, cells per MCL would be high here and besos, zero to 1% so pretty much any type of basal fill. Basophils are your histamine containing cells, your mast cells. And then when you put them all together, if they're all high, that's, again, a gut best BIOSIS and usually a parasitic infection. Okay, quite well with that. And we were not needing to go to the the thyroid

Unknown Speaker  23:36
medications, C, reactive

Bill Clearfield  23:39
protein. We want that to be less than one homocysteine. We want that under 10. I look at an MCV on everybody. I know it comes on the CBC. I actually pull it out. I make a chart of all of these. You want that to be between 79 and 97 we'll go over all the rest of them in a little bit. And then here are the here are the rest of the normals, cholesterol. You know, we're going to let you leave you at that. So C reactive protein is an inflammatory marker. It's an indication indicated with with elevation. It's elevated at vascular disease, less than three zero to 3.0 milligrams per deciliter is normal. Our goal is less than one. I have some remedies here for you some, some sort of universal remedy. So omega three fatty acids, at least two, two grams a day, and up to four and a curcumin will will recommend for green the this dark green line here is your, your median. You want to get it in in this in this line here, I'm going to show you a couple examples of this was this was one of my patients. He was 70 years old. He had eight children. He was a chiropractor. He had eight children, two of them, the youngest two were autistic. The two others had Down syndrome. The oldest son, about three months before we did this test, burned the patient's house down with the mother, the patient's wife, in the house, and she she passed away, and he was dealing with all of this stress. And as you can tell, this is a different company. But as you can tell, his cortisol levels are off the chart. Here they give you, sort of again, the breakdown at the times and what it is. And here's a median, you know, about 35 is about dead center for the whole day, and he was at 97 we did. I went right to, I really went, I didn't bother with the height, with the adaptogenic herbs, or the quarter, you know, to adrenal extracts. I went right to cortisone, and we got him into some counseling, of course. And six months later he was here. And so you can see he went from, you know, very high, all across the board, so a little bit high here, he was having trouble getting out of bed, believe it or not, and he was sleeping, so he was able to deal with what he he needed to deal with. And as you can see here, at overall total cortisol level is pretty much dead center. Did you find any correlation between cortisone and estrones? Like, what you make is on his highest on his high too? Yeah. And I have to tell you, this was quite a while ago. We weren't measuring estrones in men then, so I don't know what it was. 10 years old, yeah, recently, when you measure it, did you see any then you notes, any correlation? Actually, they do, yes, okay, and there's an inverse relationship, like I mentioned earlier, between cortisol and DHEA. So when the cortisol levels are high, the DHEA levels are low, and that DHEA is a good way to to sort of temper cortisol, you know, pretty easily, pretty easily with low doses. This is a gal who basically can't get out of bed, and is just basically, kind of just there. And this is just, this was her cortisol. Yeah, just the reason all that, the reason why DHA, DHA is low. Cortisol is high because cortisol stimulate armor, taste conversion and I convert DHEA, discuss estrogen, test, arms. I think that's the reason why the correct. Okay, stool testing. So, again, this is a CME credit. So I won't mention the company until afterwards. Lots of them. I like this one because it's simple, you know, it gives me the information I need. There aren't a lot of fancy graphs here. You know, some of the other companies have color coded this and that, and they will look nice, and they give you nice, nice covers. But I like this one. It's simple. It's easy for me to easy for me to interpret. You can see here you have a couple of pathogenic bacteria, got C difficile, A and B, you also have Yersinia, that's food poisoning. It will do 40 the DNA of 40 different microbes. It's a quantitative polymer Polymerase Chain Reaction test commensal bacteria low levels or intake. Intake indicate some dietary issues, we're going to look at things like formicities to bacteroides ratios. When we get to the microbiome portion of this, the increased ratio is indicative of a weight gain and obesity, and decreased ratios we're going to see with insulin resistance and increased inflammation. So here, here we have that I just mentioned, that and inflammatory bowel disease and the different pathogens that are tested, H, pylori, C difficile, opportunistic and dysbiotic bacteria, including staph strep and pseudomonas, inflammatory and autoimmune inducing bacteria, Citrobacter and Klebsiella, viral antigens for adenovirus and norovirus, yeast antigens for Candida Candida albicans and parasites and worms, cryptosporidium and into me, but histolytica, heliobacter here, pylori, h pylori, and we'll get a genetic virulence factors here. And you have to know what you're looking at here. So this is positive for heliobacter, but when it says positive here for virulence factor, this is a positive for a that they're negative a negative antigen. So I'm going to show you that a little bit more at the end. So these are the different virulence factors here. These are the commensal bacteria. These are your sort of your normal flora. Here we went to pretty much in the green. Here you can see we got low acromansia. And this one, I'm not really sure when this is low with what that's indicative of, but low acromancy, we know is an issue. And there, here's your formicities from a cuties, is low. Here's some overgrowth and dysbiosis. We got Bacillus enterobacus, Staph aureus. Here you got Citrobacter. These are immune and inflammatory reactions. This is actually a real patient, by the way. This is one of my patients. This just came last week. I put this in over the over the sample, so you can see this gal, it's got a lot of a lot of gut dysbiosis here, Enterobacter and E coli or Escherichia factors here. Let's go back here. Sorry about that. And We met we since then have found that.

Bill Clearfield  31:09
it, it'll have positive for Candida. The as you can see, there's a lot of gut dysbiosis here the biomarkers. So they have these biomarkers. So status credit is fecal fat. Elastase is your pancreatic enzymes, beta glucuronidase shows dysbiosis, particularly with estrogen induced diseases. You're going to have elevated estrogens with with abnormal beta glucuronidase. Occult blood, we know that. You know cold blood, Secretory IgA, this is your primary immunoglobulin in the GI tract. When it's high, that's indicative of infections, dysbiosis and food sensitivities. When it's low, we have dysbiosis, stress and immune compromise. Anti Gliadin. IGA is an immune response to gluten. This is your, you know, your gluten sensitivity or gluten intolerance. Eocinophil activation protein, this is your allergic reactions and your infections. Calprotectin is your inflammatory protein. This is kind of the gold standard as an inflammatory marker for of Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and to a lesser extent, irritable bowel syndrome. Zonulin is the is the adhesiveness between cells, and it will measure intestinal permeability. Here are the normals. Here are the normals for all of them. So we got them here, and I have some treatment, sort of guidelines here. So high static pancreatic enzymes and bile acid replacement, elast elastase, again, pancreatic enzymes, their normal lab values there, beta glucuronidase. We're going to offer high fiber foods, calcium D glucarate will lower estrogen levels, especially post menopausal. And if so, if you have a post menopausal patient with high estrogen levels, low progesterone levels and GI issues, but we go with calcium D glucarate Rather than some of the other like Chase Berry, black co ash, those kinds of things balance the gut flora, and we do with pro and pre Pro and post biotics. Now we learned that from Ross Pelton, occult blood is, you know, the indicating of GI bleed. Secretory IgA is a primary immune globulin in the GI tract, and it depicts a mucosal immunity when the levels are high or low, we're going to there's some treatment protocols or suggestions there for both. When it's abnormal, colostrum seems to be a bit of a help. Any Gliadin that your gluten sensitivity and you remove gluten from the diet and try to remove triggers, eosinophil activated protein our treatment protocols, we do the limit our elimination diet. We want to use low histamine foods, remove food triggers, treat allies or parasites and diamine oxidase inhibitors. We use those also calprotectin you want to repair the gut lining. We like L glutamine for gas, gas, upper GI gastro, esophageal reflux disease, zinc, carnitine or de glycerinated Licorice. Remember to be careful with that. With hypertension, the licorice, pre Pro and post biotics elimination diet. These are some medications here that are, you know, kind of the standard Zonulin with greater than 50 is a indicative of intestinal permeability. And we look for, we do the four R's, replace, repair, remove and regenerate. We talked about that last week. Anti inflammatory diet, and we remove gluten in this, in this stool test, you'll get h pylori antibiotic resistant genes. And so the resistant genes that are positive mean that these, these, these genes will not be reactive to this, these, those antibiotics. So the positives here for amoxicillin and clarithim isin, which are usually the standards, will not work in this patient. You need to go to the ones here that that are totally negative. Okay, parasites here, and they're showing you, end of me, coli here, and then worms also. So that's your comprehensive stool test, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is a breath test. Usually we're looking for a hydrogen and methane changes. It should be flat. There shouldn't be any if there's hydrogen or methane that comes, that comes out of the the the test, that means that there's a bacteria that are alive in the small intestine. This is a test where you you take lactulose, and then you measure the methane and and hydrogen every two hours. You can even do a three hour test, and we follow this graph. This is a positive graph here. So um, so the science of SIBO, pretty much I explained that a positive rise of 20 parts per million rise in hydrogen over 90 minutes is positive for hydrogen and for methane at 10 points parts per million at any point during the test, gas in the small intestine is indicative of small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Lactulose. Patient consumes 10 grams of non absorbable laculus. If bacteria in the small intestine will ferment the laculus, the fermentation produces the hydrogen and methane, and that's what we're measuring. And here's a again, pretty much the same thing, just that says, repeat, positive, okay. Baseline hydrogen is of unknown clinical significance. Elevated is indicative of methanogens that can ferment without substrate, so that, again, they're positive SIBO remedies here. I just threw these in, and we're not really treating here, but we positive for hydrogen Rifaximin, which is, again, an antibiotic. It's quite expensive. With methane, Rifaximin and metronidazole, we can do treatments pretty successfully, but it takes a long time. So these treatments are 10 to 14 days, the prescription ones, the ones below caprylic acid, oil of oregano, peppermint tea, green tea, green grapefruit seed extract, pre and probiotics, and the low FODMAP diet that you need to do this for at least six months before you're going to you're going to eradicate the symptoms here. So you know, it does take a lot longer, but you're not dealing with antibiotics. Mucosal barrier assessment, this is one that we like. It'll give us four tests. It'll give us the Zonulin diamine oxidase enzyme, which degrades histamine and histamine itself. And then we're going to look at a diamine oxidase to histamine ratio, and then lipopolysaccharides, which are endotoxins produced by gram negative bacteria. High levels of lipopolysaccharides are indicative of neuroinflammation, and low levels are an immune deficiency. So these are the levels the normals. So low levels of Zonulin aren't clinically significant. Anything over depending on on your your again, your treatment, the background, the numbers and anything high is indicative of your leaky gut diamine oxidase. Low levels are indicative of a trophy atrophied microvilli and permeability, ongoing damage and cell dysfunction. And low levels of histamine are indicative of fatigue and depression. And those are the levels there high levels, which is what we usually think of high so high Zonulin levels are indicative of bacteria, yeast or gluten issues and your you know gluten sensitivity, high diamine oxidase is compensatory response to high histamine levels. High histamine levels, this is your mast cell activation syndrome and mast cell degranulation. We like diamine oxidase enzymes and mass cell stabilizers as a remedy. Here, lipopolysaccharides. Low lipopolysaccharides in the indicative of an immune dysfunction it results from usually chronic infections, or we treat this with our immunoglobulins and vitamins A and D. High lipopolysaccharides as an active immune response against bacterial overload. And here you're going to need antimicrobials with a high fat needle with stress and intestinal permeability over the counter, the antimicrobials Berberine, oregano and garlic. This is what the test looks like. Here's your Zonulin level, here's your diamine oxidase. Here's your histamine this is your diamine oxidase to histamine ratio, and then here's your lipopolysaccharides here. So this is what you'll get back. This is just a summary of what I just told you, so you can get this you know, pretty much here. It's got the optimal value, normal values, and what to do about it. In the meaning of the test, mucosal barrier indications, auto immunity, food sensitivities, headaches, arrhythmias, digestive symptoms, depression, anxiety, any condition where leaky gut is suspected, the metabolic wellness profile. This is three tests from a one a different company. These are urine tests. So we like urinary indican is indicative of protein digestion. Urinary bile salts is indicative, again, of fat utilization and detoxification and Dr halasa, if you're on eight hydroxy two deoxyguanosine, is your oxidative stress screener. So I hope you're on there. Dr Halas, and heard that,

Speaker 5  41:32
yeah, seeing the urine, yes, I got,

Bill Clearfield  41:36
when I, when I found that, I got all excited. I know, I know that would perk your ears

Speaker 5  41:40
up. So, yeah, and the urine, right? Talking about, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  41:44
yeah. So urinary indican is a dysbiosis indicator for SIBO, leaky gut malabsorption. It's a screening tool for dysbiotic fermentation of dietary tryptophan. And symptoms here are, as you can see, are protein, male malabsorption, maligestion, adverse, glycemic control, hormonal and fluid imbalances, gi stuff, gas, bloating, malabsorption, parasitic or fungal infections like Candida, liver dysfunction or nutritional deficiencies. Again, this is a screen for dysbiosis, and it gives you an idea that, hey, you know this. This is where we need to look. And this is what the test looks like. Here, it's a urinary and you get them anywhere from clear to dark blue. And these, these are the has adverse, adverse effects on glycemic control, hormones, hypochlorhydria, protease enzyme deficiencies. So urinary bile acids are bile acids are not removed by the liver. This is a screen for liver dysfunction, viral disease, cirrhosis of the liver, drug induced liver injuries and cholecy state, colithias or cholecys and stasis. The role of bile acids is to eliminate cholesterol, fat absorption regulates energy expenditure, glucose and lipid metabolism. Low total bile acids is positive in inflammatory bowel disease, chronic malabsorption, persistent diarrhea and starvation. Uh, your two, your urinary, eight, hydroxy, two, deoxyguanosine or eight dash, oh. DG is a marker for reactive oxidative stress. There you go. Dr halass, this is your baby, right here, increased sources of reactive, activated stress, cellular metabolism, exogenous physical sources, chemical compounds, DNA damage. DNA breaks base modifications, aging and cancer develop. It's also can be positive and excessive exercise, exercise over overdose. It's a it's oxidized from deoxyguanosine it's a crucial component of DNA. It's formation occurs when reacts of oxidative stress, stress or species attack DNA molecules. So this is a biomarker that is pretty accurate for oxidative stress. And that's that's the point here. It's positive in cancers, all different types of cancers, degenerative diseases, neurodegenerative diseases, it has a positive plays a positive role in oxidative DNA damage, metabolic diseases, respiratory diseases, neurologic diseases, inflammatory conditions and exercise. So and this is the little chart on that sort of summary here, food sensitivity testing. So this we're dealing with IgG type sensitivity testing, not IGA. We're not looking at patients who have a peanut allergy and they eat peanuts or they inhale peanut dust and they stop breathing. That's not what we're looking for. We're looking for chronic disease burden. We're looking for prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome. These are patients that eat certain types of foods and they don't feel well for the next two or three days. And quite frankly, most of us don't remember today's Monday or Tuesday. We don't remember what we had on Saturday and what's what we ate on Saturday, if we're sensitive to it, is what's affecting us today. So the food sensitivity testing has some variation from company to company, some trigger, some triggers might, might, might not, might not be positive for, for either one person or even one guys to another. Some of the critics argue that the food sensitivity tests don't really have a lot of scientific foundation, and there's a risk of false positives. So need to keep that in mind, IgG food antibodies and food intolerances suggest a possible link between food specific IgG antibodies and allergy symptoms or food intolerance symptoms, females seem to be more sensitive to IgG antibodies than males. Research shows that reducing foods that are IgG antibody positive may lessen migraine attacks and also improve weight management and quality of life irritable bowel syndrome and food sensitivity. Irritable Bowel Syndrome improved using IgG sensitivities. Reductions in plasma elastase, which causes tissue damage and disrupts tight junctions, is improved high prevalence of serum IgG antibodies to specific food allergens in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, food elimination based on IgG sensitivities, improves listening, concentration, information processing and memory. So this is your gut brain access and testing is beneficial for those with digestive issues, skin problems and cognitive symptoms. There's different types of tests. There's the Alyssa and the micro, micro away micro array. The micro arrays are considered more precise and efficient and general food sensitivity, information causes our over consumption, stress, infections, increased intestinal permeability. And symptoms can range from mild bloating to severe behavioral issues. You test when they have recurring symptoms or patients again GI symptoms that just don't resolve. 100 million people are suspected of having food sensitivities. Potential benefits include identifying food triggers, limitations, reproducibility, and you need to approach these in a personalized manner. This is an example of a food sensitivity test. There's lots of them. This has 184 different items. And as you can see, there's main food categories, there's meat and poultry. There's dairy and egg, there's different oils, and then there's breakdown between them. There's nuts in here and legumes. And as you can see, the ones that come up positive. What we do is we set up an elimination diet for it, and we, we usually pick one or two the two main ones. So if somebody's eating eggs every day, we'll pick those. We'll eliminate them. When you do an elimination diet, you need to eliminate the food for at least three weeks. Remember, this is an IgG antibody. They have a half life of 23 days. You need to eliminate them for at least two, three weeks, preferably six weeks, and then we slowly reintroduce them, one a little bit at a time. Once they're slowly reintroduced, if they have symptoms, we take we take them away again. We won't reintroduce them for another six weeks, and we'll reintroduce another food until we get a pretty good idea of which foods are tolerated and which foods are not. This could take a while. Could take six months. If you work with a dietitian, that's what I do. I usually just hand it off to them, but we have, you know, in hand. You know, this is what you need to be careful of. This is the bottom of that second page of that test. And if it detects anything that's highly sensitive, it'll be in the pink this one that we showed you only has these, all of these foods in the sort of low sensitivity. When you interpret these tests, you can have some cross reactivity with them. The test findings should be interpreted in context of clinical findings and the individual's history. So you need to be a little bit careful of that. Keep going heavy metals, environmental toxins and mold, I think we've, we've all seen a lot of these different ones. So environmental exposure symptom list. Acute is nasal stuffiness, sinus pressure, eye irritation, sore throats, cough, wheezing, skin irritations or rashes and shortness of breath and then chronic symptoms, allergic reactions, persistent cough, fatigue, headaches, difficulty concentrating, brain fog, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, memory problems, mood changes, personality changes. We somebody's got a personality change, we need to take a look at their environmental exposure and then again, weakened immune system, wheezing, coughing, reproductive issues or organ system toxicities and organ system failures. Don't forget, your environmental toxins. Will sometimes do a hair analysis for heavy metals. That's an easy thing to do. You can get blood. You can get urine. The hair analysis is pretty inexpensive. We'll go on from there. If those show up positive, there's, again, urine for heavy metals, there's blood, there's serum tests for heavy metals, environmental toxins. Will show you those and the mold toxicity. You know, we have Doctor Campbell's crowd who insist on serum levels. And then there's Doctor shoemakers crowd, who will do urine levels,

Bill Clearfield  51:05
main signs and symptoms and neurodegeneration. These are long term immune over over activation, liver disease, oxidative stress, hormone imbalances. This is a heavy metal test for hair. And you can see here, here are the here are the heavy metals. And so we have here some mercury. There's somebody who's got mercury fillings, and then titanium is another is another one, especially if they've had joint replacement with titanium joints. We're seeing a lot of uranium around here, and I think that has to do with the fact that, you know, where I live is downwind from where nuclear testing was done in the 50s, quite extensively. So we see, we do see a lot of uranium, toxins here. Here are minerals. And, you know, we sort of want them to be in the, you know, the green here, the mid green, here's somebody with a low potassium, a low molybrium. So molybdenum, you need that for your methylated your MTHFR pathway. And a little trick of the trade here, EPs and salt baths once or twice a week will replace patients molybdenum to an adequate level, usually within three to five weeks. I just kind of sort of broke this out and lead, mercury, nickel and copper, and symptoms that you'll find with those types of symptoms, we some of our more affluent or patients. I had a had a builder who was eating sushi four to five times a week and had very high mercury levels. And we can tell when he's been back to the sushi bar, because the levels will come up mildly high. Now he's got, we got them back to normal, but he was having cognitive issues. He was depressed all the time, and he was getting coughs and colds all the time also. And then, so again, I'm not going to go through all of these. You can. We'll put the slides on the website, or if you want them, to let me know. And you can look at these through yourself. Here's a urine for heavy metal. And again, we're looking at here's thallium. I unfortunately was involved with a with a patient who his wife was poisoning and actually killed him with thallium in the early 1990s and she blamed the he was a contractor for a university on the next block where my office was and they were renovating the gym, and he became deathly ill over three, three month period, he would come to my office. We would do some IVs. We eventually ended up sending him to Penn State. He kept getting ill, and at autopsy, he was found to have extremely high thallium levels. It took five years they caught the wife. She apparently she had another guy. Was only 34 years old, and he she had taken out a high life, life insurance policy on him. And this wasn't her first go around. She had a second, another one, an earlier one also. So I'm sort of like, I become a little apoplectic when I see a valuable level like that. So that'll, that'll scar you for life. So our fundamental for detoxification, again, some of you are, are much more you know, knowledgeable than I am. This is just kind of a general, fundamental, foundational detox. So liver detox for silly with silly Marin or milk thistle or any n acetyl cysteine and indole three carbon. You make sure that they they're going to bowel movements every day. So high fiber diets fruits and vegetables, you want them to make sure they have phytonutrients and antioxidants. You want to reduce exposure to chemicals. You want to reduce processed foods, HEPA filters. We pretty much insist on this. Anybody who's got any type of heavy metal toxicity, and then they need to, they need to get out and do some physical activity. Here are some supplements. And, you know, other items that we use. I mentioned the top three. Curcumin is an anti inflammatory. It's an anti reactive oxidative stress, and it also will impact toxic heavy metals. Alpha Lipoic Acid is anti and antioxidant. It's also very good for any type of neurologic involvement, peripheral neuropathy, you need to get enough of it. Though, you need 300 milligrams twice a day, is at a minimum. Otherwise, if you get alpha lipoic acid in a supplement and it's got 50 milligrams, that's just not enough pectin, so is as good as a heavy metal. Che later, we have a couple of them that we use here. You got one called pectaclear. And so this is the skin from apples. Flaxseed is useful for heavy metal chelation. Rice bran fiber and quercetin that we've mentioned a number of times, these environmental toxin markers that we measure. And again, I'm not going to read through them, but as you can see there, they can be quite extensive mold. So you know, number one mold exposure. Thing to do is get the patient away from the mold. You can do air sampling with it. You can use Pumps and filters to trap the airborne mold spores on nutrient substrates. I think most of the you know, hardware stores will have a kit you can get for not too much money, and you open it up and leave it out overnight, and then any spores or hyphy will will actually land in the or attracted to the kit, and it'll let you know if you're you're infected. There are professional companies that can measure they'll do professional measurements for mold testing. That's what this is here. And they'll measure raw counts spores and total numbers here, and they'll tell you that, you know, you got a problem here, in the air, in this in this room here, there's swap testing. So you sterile cotton rayon or fun tip swaps. You can do swap testing and compress the spores and fragments went to the swap tip and you can plate them out. The air testing plus swap testing. Of course, you do both. It's more comprehensive than just one or the other. These are some examples of swaps, swap tests, mycotoxin testing, so urine, so again, Doctor Campbell says there's no scientific peer reviewed literature on this. I'll take his word for it, but there is a whole camp that does do urine, and you can get these fairly easily. These are non invasive tests. They're actually measuring free micro toxins in the urinary urinary metabolites, and this is more indicative of a recent exposure within one to three days, mycotoxins are rapidly eliminated from the body. The problem with this specifically trichothenes, aflatoxins and okra toxins are best determined in urine. Is a screening test. There's no FDA approved test for mycotoxins in human urine, and the urine tests measure excretion. It doesn't mean that there's pathology. This is an example of the urine tests, serum tests. This is Dr Campbell's Bali wick, and he's been our mentor, you know, for a long time now. This allows for detection of micro toxin, protein or DNA addicts, the addicts provide information on long term exposure. This is preferable when evaluating chronic or repeated exposure. So this is this one's more for long term exposure. Urine shows more short term exposure, and this is the most accurate testing. And he tests now for 14. I have to change this distinct IgG and IGE antibodies. It used to be 12. I think this is actually the newer one. So these are IgG antibodies for different types of mold. And as you can see, this specimen is quite positive. This is IGE antibodies. This is your mast cell activation issues here. And you can see there's a positive one right here, interpreting it, IgG antibodies, that's your long term defense against pathogens. The IgG antibodies are indicative of ongoing or past exposure and significance of elevated Iggs reveal a chronic immune response. The IGE antibodies is an immediate hypersensitivity reaction. The responses are usually to some acute exposures, but particularly for mast cell degranulation and the triggers release pro inflammatory cytokines. Okay, micronutrients. So this is a micronutrient test, and you can see we can get vitamins, minerals, amino acids and other nutrients. We were doing these for quite extensively when I first started doing this type of work. And I had the dream that I was going to take these and for each patient, I was going to be able to create a customized, you know, vitamin, mineral, amino acid pack. But it got to be really expensive, doing it this way, with with the with the individual, you know, mixing the individual components, it got to be 500 600 709 100, $700 a month. So, so we kind of abandoned that. It was just not practical. But you can get, you know, extensive information on just about any, any nutrient that you want. Here are the nutrients that we are the the essential ones that we that we measure, vitamins. So Biotin is

Bill Clearfield  1:01:04
directly affects hair thinning, skin rashes and fatigue. With deficiency, you don't usually get too much biotin. You can get a GI upset, I guess, if you overdose, if you're doing supplements, Delta toco, trienal, so this is all of the E. Vitamin E's limited data on deficiencies, but it can impact antioxidant protection. Excess. High doses can cause bleeding. Vitamin C is load. Levels are scurvy, gum bleeding, poor wound healing and fatigue. Excess, you can get stomach or GI upset, kidney stones and diarrhea. Vitamin b1 thiamine. We see this in nerve damage, fatigue and Barry Barrus. It's rare. If it's high, you'll see vitamin b1 and b6 levels, low in with cirrhosis of the liver. B2 riboflavin. We'll see cracked lips, sore throat, skin disorders. Too much, you'll get a bright yellow urine vitamin b3, or niacin. The deficiency is pellagra, diarrhea, dermatitis and dementia and fatigue and excess, you'll get flushing, liver upset, toxicity. We use this, you know, for cholesterol control, and if you use the niacin in the pure form, we do get flushing. B6 deficiency is for you'll get we're going to get peripheral neuropathy, depression and confusion, and in excess, you're going to get nerve damage, skin lesions with prolonged high vitamin intake, b9 or folic acid deficiency, this is your Pernicious anemia. Fatigue anemia, poor cell growth, excess will mask B 12 deficiency you can get with very high doses, GI upset, B 12 or cobalamin you get fatigue, anemia, nerve damage. You get peripheral neuropathy with low B 12 and folic acid and rare in excess. You can get some acne or mild GI issues. Fat soluble vitamins. You can read through all of these, vitamin D, weak bones fatigue, muscle weakness, Vitamin k2, deficiency, poor bone health and excessive bleeding. K1 again, excessive bleeding and bruising. Vitamin A, low levels, or you had night blindness, dry skin and poor poor immunity. MK seven, poor calcium metabolism and increased risk fracture. So we like to use this with vitamin D, d3 as a supplement for osteoporosis and again, vitamin E, nerve damage, muscle weakness and vision issues, some others, calcium, iron, magnesium and zinc, calcium, weak bones, muscle cramps, iron, fatigue, anemia, pale skin, magnesium, muscle cramps, fatigue, irregular heartbeat. These are all deficiencies and zinc, impaired wound healing, loss of taste and smell and hair loss, trace minerals, Selenium. Selenium is essential for converting t4 to t3 in the thyroid cascade. Low levels of selenium, you'll get fatigue, hair loss, weak immunity, too much selenium, hair loss, garlic breath, nerve damage, brittle nails, iodine. You know iodine was the boogeyman for a long time, but it's coming making a comeback now. So low iodine levels, you'll get a goiter, hypothyroidism, fatigue and weight gain. Excess thyroid or iodine, you get thyroid dysfunction and metallic taste and nausea. Copper deficiency, you get anemia, weak immunity, brittle bones, excess copper, you see liver damage, GI issues and neurological issues, and Chromium is involved in glucose metabolism. Gymnasil, vestry or game Silvestri. Low levels are present with hyperglyce. Have hyperglycemia, hunger, and they are this guy, maybe

Unknown Speaker  1:05:22
that's lose the audio again?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:28
Yeah, I think we lost him.

Speaker 6  1:05:34
Maybe it's Nevada, because my internet just blew up. I just got back on.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:40
He should get Starlink. That's what I use at my office.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:46
Too advanced for me,

Speaker 3  1:05:47
it's easy. You just put a satellite on your roof and it works.

Speaker 7  1:05:54
Do you expose too much to the EMF with Starlink? That's my my concern. Well,

Speaker 3  1:06:00
you know, I don't think so. I mean, it's going to a satellite disk, and then it's Wi Fi. After that,

Speaker 6  1:06:08
we got so much EMFs everywhere. Anyway, I don't know what to do.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:11
Yeah, I mean, you can't avoid it.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:18
It works.

Speaker 3  1:06:20
We've had, we had a couple hurricanes this year, and I was so tired of the internet being down. So I said the Starlink thing, because every time Starlink, it's 120 per month and

Unknown Speaker  1:06:35
how much Giga

Speaker 3  1:06:38
I mean, we don't have any issues. You can upgrade if you need more. So we, I think we have, I don't know what it is, but it works flawlessly. We need just do zoom calls and stuff like this.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:47
Oh, good.

Speaker 7  1:06:50
Got you don't know how much loading and all that, like 100

Speaker 8  1:06:53
there aren't any traffic caps. You can use as much as you want. Ah, that's

Speaker 7  1:06:58
good. Oh, so it's more than I'm using. What's the XFINITY? Which is better?

Speaker 4  1:07:05
Starlink by far, lower latency, higher redundancy. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:09
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It keeps cutting out. I don't know why it it happens, but it does. So you're

Unknown Speaker  1:07:15
saying that too. So we're

Speaker 3  1:07:16
staying clear for that you should get you should get Starlink. It works a lot better. I use it at my office.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:22
Starlink,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:24
yeah, yeah, promoting Tesla, Starlink.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:30
Starlink is actually SpaceX, yeah, it's separate.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:34
Okay, so here's a here's just a summary of all of the nutrients that I went over with the deficiencies and excesses. So I don't know if I got the CD or k1 Yeah, we went over all these. Right? So these are all deficiencies and excesses. Just kind of a summary, amino acid micronutrient summary here. I don't need to read through all of these. Here's your micronutrient panel, here's your lab studies, here's a summary. There's your advanced testing. There's your 24 hour saliva test, comprehensive stool test, SIBO mucosal barrier, metabolic wellness, food sensitivity panel, heavy metal for hair and minerals, heavy metals for urine, environmental toxins. This is your urine testing for mold, serum testing for mold, serum testing for mast cell issues, essential micronutrients. There's the test again and there's references. Okay, so how was that

Unknown Speaker  1:08:44
good, other than, other than, other than

Bill Clearfield  1:08:46
the the glitches in, in the video, in the zoom, any, are there any questions?

Speaker 6  1:08:54
Yeah, I got a quick question. Dr Clearfield, I noticed on there, are we still recording because I noticed on one of

Bill Clearfield  1:09:03
the Okay, so we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll stop recording.

Speaker 6  1:09:10
Okay, well, I don't want to do it on my account, but I know it's okay. It's a doctor, doctors data, urine tests, which we've always used in the past. Yeah, maybe you can clarify for me. It was my understanding that hair testing for heavy metals, if you get mercury, it's only methyl mercury, only one of the three forms of mercury comes in. And then you mentioned, you had mentioned something about mercury fillings, and I'm not sure it gets that mercury isn't that organic mercury. I'm not sure

Bill Clearfield  1:09:40
we do see it, we do see it positive. Yeah, there's some. Somebody tells me they have mercury fillings. And what we do do the hair testing. Because it's cheap, if you want to know the truth, good to show them too, that that hair test is $65 Oh, wow. So, so it'll give us a, it'll give us a, you know, it'll give us, it'll give gives us an idea where, you know where to go. Okay, I'm not going to hang my hat on that. Okay, what about using NMR labs? Okay, so is that a specific lab.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:21
He's talking about, LabCorp, NMR,

Speaker 6  1:10:23
yeah, it's a test. It's a specific test, right? Yeah, I

Speaker 3  1:10:28
can, I can give you a lecture on that. I have gone deep into the details on that one. Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:10:33
okay, so again, I gave you, I gave you an overview fasting blood sugar times fasting insulin divided by 405, that'll give you the conversion, and that that's your Homa, that's your Homa. IR, okay, easy. Alright, so your NMR, I'm sure, is much more complicated. You know, I'm getting too old for the to be able to keep think, keep all this in my head. The next question here, for men with abnormally high estradiol levels, can you give them dim or indole three carbon to balance, I suppose, right. Do you ever do that? Stefan? I don't

Unknown Speaker  1:11:13
know. I mean, if

Bill Clearfield  1:11:14
you want to, if you want to do a sort of pseudo aromatase inhibitor, saw palmetto would work. White Peony, I think is one that works.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:26
A DHT blocker you're talking about, is

Bill Clearfield  1:11:29
it okay? We've used spearmint tea. Yeah, we've used that one. Okay, so there's a couple there. Okay, progesterone dominance, you're not going to even have bloating, you're going to have excessive somnolence, you're going to have some vertigo. I defer to Carol on that one. I think she's still on. Carol. You still on? Okay? I mean, again, progesterone dominance is pretty rare. You know, we have to do it. Progesterone dominance, Carol, symptoms, there's a question.

Speaker 9  1:12:15
Yeah, here I am. Yeah, I don't really see that as a problem. Yeah, yeah, I don't either. I mean, actually, if you're using creams, it doesn't budge the serum, right? Gee, they say you're not going to see it. I always if people are too somnolent, like, I like, maybe they don't have enough estrogen.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:40
Yeah? Usually as progesterone dominance, as we did it. You know, it's our fault. They took too much. So

Speaker 9  1:12:51
you get higher allopragmental Bone conversion in some cases, and that's what's driving it. You can use lower doses or different dosage forms, and get rid of that.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:04
And then you wrote this. Total testosterone in women used to be higher too,

Speaker 9  1:13:07
yeah, 80 to 90. I distinctly remember Jonathan Wright talking about that way back when. So they Yeah, they did that too.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:20
Yeah, you get young girls, 80 to 90. That's polycystic ovaries. Now, you know it

Unknown Speaker  1:13:27
shouldn't be, I would say higher than that.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:31
No, I my anything over 40, we start. We start. I start seeing excess around symptoms. DHEA is a controlled substance in Canada, I guess. And I guess pregnant alone, that's what we were talking about. What do we do? What do we do for low prolactin? So we're going to use the, we're going to use that allopregine alone pathway. So we're going to use high pregnenolone level supplements, high progesterone supplements, and we'll use, I like using GABA, you know, to stimulate allopregina. That's what we do for low prolactin. Okay, all right. The human test also has eight hydroxy D quanase, okay. So again, we, during the didactic part. We didn't mention any particular, you know, company test. So, I mean, you can get that, you know, by itself. You don't have you can, I'm pretty much, pretty sure, you know, pretty much every, every you know, major lab, you can get that as a urine test by itself. Can I comment on the use of progesterone blockers like meth piston for cancer. No, I can't Carol, can you? It's not my it's not my wheelchair. You

Speaker 9  1:14:52
know, take a look at Jeffrey dash new book. Or is revision on bioidentical hormones? 101, first volume has extensive research into breast cancer, particularly with estrogen related but progesterone. In all cases, he's finding progesterone is anti proliferative, and should be very helpful,

Speaker 7  1:15:20
right? But progesterone is is an esterol. They are antiprofit, but estrone and estradiol, they are profited. I wrote the book, which is estrogen dominance syndrome. It's published in Amazon. I will put the link here for anybody, but I think because of the dominancy of it, in other words, it's becoming a pandemic because of all this in decline, disruptors that we are experiencing, and xenoestrogens and all those micro plastics, according to tan of they are estrogen mimics. So basically, we all have some sort of estrogen dominance, a 99% of us, and that's the reason, even for youngsters, you know, before we think, you know, you check the sixth month for people above 50, not not people with 20 and 30s. Now, I think they get the I think the the game has changed, and you can now using six hormone testing for all ages to screen for estrogen dominance and look for the ratio even if they have normal range, does not mean that they don't have abnormal ratios. And so that's the difference between maybe two years ago and now that we need to investigate estrogen dominance and diagnose it for all ages, and looking for the ratios of the especially the Estonians. And if there's any way to detect xenoestrogens and all this estrogen mimics then and then that word, we need to look at how we detox them first. And I think cyclodextrin is the answer. And then weight loss, of course, because aromatase, it's increasing death strands. And then we look for using this extra one, but detoxing and weight loss, it's main thing needs to be started before we move to using any six hormone. That's my opinion. What do you think? Dr, William,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:29
I agree. So, yeah, you know, I don't. I don't have any quarrel with that at all. So

Speaker 7  1:17:38
we all agree. I will put the link for the Amazon for the book. Is that okay? Dr William,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:48
it's fine. You're the CME Maven. Is it okay? I

Speaker 7  1:17:51
think the books are okay. It's a references. So then, if we don't, we don't share books how we're gonna learn. So this is partly within the academy. If you have anybody has books here, you think it's a good resource for us to learn more. I mean, I think it's a good place for sharing information. Okay,

Speaker 8  1:18:17
Bill, can we announce our East Coast meeting? Go ahead, there's going to be an East Coast meeting with aos. I am a group right here. We're doing the first East Coast meeting that will be may 30, 31st and June 1. The significance of the meeting for those who would want to come is that it's going to be reasonable. I don't want to do it for CME. We can give a zoom CME meeting after this meeting, for those who want that type of credit, but Kathy O'Brien, the whistle blower for CIA child torture and mind control, and the MK Ultra program will be speaking. I got noticed from her tonight. She's excited about being there, and she saw what the rest of you are talking on, like Dr Tanner in Clearfield and Kent Crowley, and she wanted to attend the conference to learn a few things, so that's going very well, but she'll be giving us three straight hours on the MK Ultra program. But more importantly, PTSD. She's written the CIA PTSD therapy book. So the CIA does things, but then if you get messed up and you have PTSD, they have their own method for getting you back on track. And she's written a book on that, and she's given congressional testimony. She's an extraordinary person that she bill, she's like you. She said after 30, she said, After 30, well, there's a lot in common there. And I told her, we have a lot of people in our group that are similar to her. They're intelligent and they're brave. And she said, After 35 years, she's finally been vindicated, and the same way with

Speaker 4  1:20:22
no Amen, amen, that that sets completely awesome to hear, to be on.

Speaker 8  1:20:32
We're very lucky to have we're very lucky to have her lecture. We have an incredible first class, world class facility. This is where the Israeli agree. Syria peace talks were, were made. There is no higher security, higher comfort level in the United States, right for very reasonable prices too. So we think we can keep the prices way down. Agree, amen. So we have a world class celebrity here. We're going to be doing a documentary film as well. That's the second item of importance. You can meet Kathy O'Brien face to face. Ask questions face to face. She's remarkable. What she's learned, but, uh, what was I just talking about before? Does

Speaker 5  1:21:27
she come here and just give us some of the of representation

Speaker 8  1:21:32
on Zoom? I leave it up to her. I give her space. I've known her for years. I've communicated for years. But when you deal with the situation she's in and the high octane CIA MK Mind Control, which is still going on. You don't like to pop up everywhere. She does a lot of Blogcast, so she might be willing, but I want to do it with a lot of discretion and respect, because she deserves it. And she also has a Hollywood link with Roseanne Barr, because they've been playing the kids there for a long time.

Speaker 4  1:22:09
Right, right? Yeah, Agree, Agree.

Speaker 8  1:22:13
And this also she's best friends with Tom Homan, the head of Homeland Security, our borders are. So what we're dealing with her issue too. We'll be dealing three hours mainly with PTSD. But I'm hoping we can contribute somehow to the child trafficking situation we have. It's been ignored long enough, and we have Tom Holman on our side as well. So we're going to see where it all plays out.

Speaker 4  1:22:44
And you know, you know, it's ironic that you say child trafficking. People have to remember, it ain't just child trafficking. It's also human trafficking. It's also adult trafficking. It's also, you know, these ladies and men. It's, it's not just child children anymore. It's, it's, it's horrible, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:23:07
well, the main purchase age of the CIA is four years old, right? Right? Years because that's when you cut your deal with parents who are using their children for porn. So a lot of people, or some people, have their kids in porn by the time they're 1234, years old. And then the approaches that family and says, Give us your child so we can experiment where we're putting you in jail for the rest of your life, everybody will give up their child, and they already did if they're using their child for porn, right? Anyway, that's way it works. And their mind controlled until they're 29 and then they're executed, right? That's the story, folks. This meeting we're going to have will be a conference of announcements. We're going to be announcing several things, new things on the DNA in the very small stem cells, new things on ethics, new things on chelation, brand new big discoveries. And then Bill's going to talk about the news discoveries and hormones. Dr Tanner is going to tell us how we can save Africa and and publishing, he has two hours, uh, Quinn also has a couple hours, and one is based on muscle centric testing, right and there, right,

Unknown Speaker  1:24:38
right? Amen. Amen,

Speaker 8  1:24:42
total muscle centric health. Muscle centric health, yes. And the other Doctor Quinn is going to talk on is our apothecary project, which is a major, major project. So God bless you. Dr Quinn, thank you. Yeah, you gotta love Nevada, right? Yeah, and

Unknown Speaker  1:25:11
desert, I'm just saying, Man, yep.

Speaker 8  1:25:13
Well, I sent a intro letter to Bill Clearfield with a PDF. Did you get it? Bill?

Bill Clearfield  1:25:22
Linda, just send that

Unknown Speaker  1:25:25
this week?

Unknown Speaker  1:25:27
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:29
myself, so I think, I think I did, yeah, so I'm traveling to Pittsburgh tomorrow. I'm doing the AMA, ama. I'm doing acupuncture treatments for hormone optimization. So I'm a little bit preoccupied with that at the

Speaker 8  1:25:48
moment. We have to. We have three weeks before it's written in stone. They will only stick except on people on the people list, and that's why you need to find out if you really want to go or not. We have three weeks to do that, 30 days, 30 days after the time limit.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:08
Yeah, after Saturday, I'm free. So

Speaker 8  1:26:11
okay, so every everybody will get an introductory letter from me that I sent the bill and and the PDF, which the schedule we have made. I think everybody will be satisfied with it. I'll to

Speaker 4  1:26:25
change my tires on my Subaru. So to you,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:32
are you driving? Oh,

Speaker 4  1:26:34
you know it, I love driving. You don't want to see America, you know, like in person. I

Unknown Speaker  1:26:42
tried to talk. I tried to talk, can't Crawley out of cone all the way across, and

Speaker 8  1:26:49
he calls me the next day and says, I already got the plane tickets. And then man, and then Kathy or Brian, said, I'm very interested in what can't Crawley has to say. So she is liable to attend the first day, speak the second day, and also attend the third day. So she may be with us for three days and four nights. This is an excellent opportunity to talk to somebody on the inside. Agree,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:16
Agree. Amen.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:20
All going very well.

Speaker 4  1:27:23
You're wrong. Good. You're doing a great job.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:28
Agree? Dr halasa, somebody's asking about your if you're still here, if they're asking about the link for your book.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:36
Oh, I did post it. Let me post it again.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:40
I think it's LinkedIn, right?

Speaker 5  1:27:44
The link is here. I mean, Sheldon was editor of the book, right? The Murphy was doing the website for Dr Clarkson Goldman. So those are the editors, and they're very good. So if you want any editors for books, let me know. I can connect you with those guys. But this is the book, even it looks very nice and it contain all the information that I learned from Dr William Clearfield and Teno. And anybody wants to co author the book, including Dr William, just reach out to Sheldon, edit the book as you want it, and then we'll create the second version, Second Edition. Amen the base for us to go ahead and upgrade and update and add more. So it will make it easy for the doctors, because most of the time you don't have time to write a book, it would take you a long time, maybe five years, if you do in traditional way. This is more of artificial intelligence helps to keep the ease the process of writing and editing and putting things together. But we invite doctors to edit, update, upgrade, look, if there's any mistake, and so we can change it and perfect it. It's kind of a base for everybody to be creative on in this books. And please, if there's any problem with if you see anything, and if you disagree, just we're gonna we have the capability to change it and upgrade it at any time. So the technology change, it's like different. And this is like, print on demand, so we don't have hard copies already, just, I mean, they you ordered from Amazon and they were printed for you, and if you don't like the book, you can return it. There's many things as the Amazon is helping and publishing the book, so it will be more flexible, and it's going to be more previewed and more criticized and upgrade and change and and perfect. Is that good?

Unknown Speaker  1:29:49
Good bye. Okay?

Speaker 5  1:29:53
Everybody happy. We're all happy. Okay, that's very important. That's what my message to all my kids every day, so everybody's happy. They say, Happy man, feel good. Amen, alright, yeah. Well, be in touch. William, next, alright. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:30:10
you all. Um,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:12
like I said, I'm off to Pittsburgh tomorrow for the AMA soiree, and I'll let you have it go. Let you know how it goes. I think I bit off more than I can chew. Points to raise testosterone levels was not fun.

Speaker 5  1:30:28
I mean, we learn a lot from you, man, and you are changing the dynamic of medicine. Thank you very much. Amen.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:34
Oh yeah. Okay, thanks. Thanks everybody. Hey, John. I if you have any room left over, I think you need to invite Carol Peterson in her you know, progesterone show.

Speaker 8  1:30:46
Well, that's kind of a we're looking for things that are new. Can we do it so it's a new thing, a new discovery, a new therapy. There's

Speaker 4  1:30:57
always something new. And Joel Peterson, yes, Peterson's

Speaker 9  1:31:03
and then yeah, and I just wrote a blog on the use of progesterone in men that needs

Speaker 8  1:31:11
to that would work. Okay? Then I left one hour open. Um, nice I think I can't remember if it's in the second day or not. It might be, but I left one hour open out of this three day thing, in case we came up with something like this. Carol would be perfect for it progesterone, and that would be really nice. Be

Speaker 9  1:31:38
you men and other cool things that I happen to run across,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:47
like the title of your talk, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:31:50
other weird things, right? Yeah. Okay, all right, Carol, thank you. We will follow through with that. Okay, thanks. Thank you. Thank you, everybody

Bill Clearfield  1:32:01
now, Carol, now you got to go to West Virginia or wherever the hell this

Speaker 9  1:32:08
place quite good. I i read David Ike's book on Cathy O'Brien many years ago. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:15
agree, yeah.

Speaker 8  1:32:22
And her treatment, her PTS treatment, even though she went through the most extreme horror you can imagine, she's the most together person I know now, very kind, loving, conscious, uh, respectful. And how she did it, I don't know, but the PTSD therapy that she went through is what saved her life. She wasn't like this until she went through the CIA PTSD trauma program, and that was a very, very secret thing. Her husband happened to be a CIA agent, so he, he's the one who rescued her and put her through this type of training, and now she's sharing it with the rest of us.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:10
Agree, Agree.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:13
Yeah, she's, she's just downright cool. And

Speaker 4  1:33:15
a lot of us, a lot of US veterans, are, you know, we're trying to deal with this. We're we're trying to move on. And I think this group that we're involved in is absolutely huge. I

Speaker 8  1:33:32
think if we, if we also tie in with Homeland Security, we have, basically, we have a few people who give a shit about 350,000 missing kids. So underneath my little stuff is we're trying to save kids, and I think our group here could help facilitate Homeland Security and some of this craziness that's going on so we can get some kids back. You know, this is real stuff, not just theory. We're trying to save some kids, and I'm not even going to mention what they're doing to the kids, because you would think it's insane, impossible, but it's not, you

Speaker 4  1:34:11
know, it's not, it's not just kids, it's adults. It seems it's all the above. So

Speaker 8  1:34:18
keep, I'll keep my mouth shut, because they like the kid younger the better. Alright, I'll be quiet, but it's going to be a great time. The facility is probably the most secure lecture facility in the country, and it's also very comfortable in a 500 acre little zone where nothing but you and your scientists to exchange information so we won't have prostitutes, we won't have drugs. We might have horseback riding. That's about that's as rough as we get. Yeah, well,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:58
she survived that. But did she survived a House of Delegates meeting of the AOA. So

Speaker 8  1:35:07
I'm trying to figure that one out. Bill, well, that's, you know, it's pretty obvious. We have some brave, intelligent people, and they came down on you, like shit on stink, you know, yeah, yeah. And you stood up to him and we recorded it. The reason we're doing a documentary film, we are documenting what we are saying. We are documenting what's being done. When the delegates came down on bill, we documented it, and they shifted from 500 to one four to 501 against. So we know something's

Unknown Speaker  1:35:47
up. Agree, yeah, when

Speaker 8  1:35:49
you're voted the most successful affiliate and they say, We gotta get rid of this guy, there's something so anyway, you've been brave bill, so you can speak for us. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:36:00
got it,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:03
alright, everybody. We'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and we'll, we'll have another we'll, we'll hopefully have another guest that will give us what we need to know. Okay, amen, talk to you all soon. Have a good night. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:36:23
you. I heard.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai