Unknown Speaker  00:00
On the pretzels, no thank you, or card. Cards almost How much is it going to be? Not sure.

Unknown Speaker  00:22
Mr. Black,

Speaker 1  00:29
I Dr tan, oh, can I? Can I borrow you for co host since Dr chosen in Vienna,

Speaker 2  00:39
yeah, okay, okay, thank you. Sure.

Speaker 2  00:49
Question tomorrow, yeah, let's mark it. I appreciate it.

Speaker 1  00:53
I have a video. He sent me a video. Yeah, Tip of the Week, yeah, so you're not going to be deprived at the tip of the week. Everybody, yeah, okay, the well, we got a few of the the main players on here, so Dr Quinn and Dr Tano, we you're going to get your first email is going to go out tonight, about the conference. I know finally, yeah, yeah. We got, we finally got it all together. We have the speakers list. We have the hotel, you know, discount. We got everything, everything on there to on there to go, and it's all ready to go. So you should be getting it. It's going to go out, hopefully while, while we're talking here, okay, yeah, we have one sponsor already to also so Sierra pharmacy in Reno is the compounding pharmacy here. Yeah. So if you So, I'm trying to get the a couple of different looks to it. One for the homeopath. So it says, you know, homeopathic credits and and then, you know, if you guys need a separate Look, let me know, you know, the research guys. Otherwise, it's, you know, it's got, like, all our names as the sponsors. And then it's got registration, and you know that it's all it's all centralized, and it's all ready to go. Okay, yep, so that's, that's that if, if you want. So we've been playing around with it. And

Unknown Speaker  02:54
so can you see my screen? No,

Unknown Speaker  02:56
not yet. Okay,

Speaker 1  03:02
hang on, okay. Dr Tanner, can you take the the anybody who to admit folks, and I'll get, I'll get this up. Yep. Okay, so, so here's, here's, here's the website. It'll be going out tonight. And we have our name. We have Integrative Health Alliance. That's what we're using for the research guys. If you want something else, let me know. Nevada board of homeopathic and medical examiners, Nevada board of integrative medicine homeopathic, and then our other fearless leader here. Okay, there's a contact page.

Bill Clearfield  03:47
I'm going to put something in here. I'm not sure what, just yet. So here's a registration page. And so we have physicians, virtual, active, military, retired homeopaths. Students, lay people. Okay, if there's anything else you can think of, let me know we got these pictures so far. We want every all the all the speakers to send pictures in with a short bio, and then we'll add them into the speakers list. Here's the schedule so far.

Speaker 1  04:26
Like I said, month or Thursday is the research folks? Day Friday is going to be the homeopaths? We sort of overlapped a little bit. We got Dr Quinn. I threw myself in there. I wasn't going to but I did a lecture on 50 years as an anti aging physician, from predict from the Pritikin clinic to regenerative medicine. So I go through three or four highlights of things that I've done in each decade new in each decade. I don't know

Unknown Speaker  04:59
if that'll be interesting or not, we'll see So, so here's the list so far.

Speaker 1  05:07
I'll put the this right now is this? This is the, what you would call it schedule. This is the, this is still the, the play one. I still have a call for speakers. We probably have. We could probably squeeze in one or two more. At the moment, sponsors, if you guys have sponsors, please let us know we got 500 1015 100. I mean, you know, we're not a big, big group. If for 1500 we're going to let them sponsor lunch. And have to have have them do a non CME talk, the CME credits. Dr, loss has given me some a little bit of grief because he doesn't quite get the concept of 20 credits can't cost $500 so here's here's the venue. It's the element hotel reservations and there's a little map here. There was a picture before. I don't know what the hell happened to it. There is, there should be a live registration here somewhere. Looks like each Oh, yeah, you have to hit this. Okay. Uh, you know, it's a, it's one of these sort of downscale Marriott 179 a night. I mean, you know, the last time I last year in Vegas, we used to get 249 at The Palazzo for a forum. And last year it was like 549

Bill Clearfield  06:38
they wanted. So, so this is the hotel, and whatever else is there about. So, if you want, we want, I mean, you got me and Dr Burgess in there. If, if you want the pictures of all the or the prominent folks you know, in the about, you know, top two or three in each one of your,

Speaker 1  07:03
you know, specialty units. Let me know. We'll put those in. So that's what we got.

Unknown Speaker  07:13
So I'll put it in the I'll put the home

Speaker 1  07:22
in the looks like it's live now, actually, okay, I'll put it in the chat, and we'll let you take a look at it, and it's going to go out to our database, the homeopathic database. You guys, if you can, you know, lend us your mailing lists. We can, we can, you know, get a fairly nice crowd. So, and you know, it's, it's, it's inexpensive. As far as some conferences go, I think we got a lot of good speakers. And it we, you know, and I know the reason, that reason, as you know, is that it's a rush job is because of the the homeopath in Nevada need CME credits by the end of the year.

Speaker 1  08:16
Conference website. Okay, there it is, okay. It's in the chat. Okay, it is a little bit after five. So I have a doctor, Dr Nario, usually does our tip of the week is in Vienna speaking at a conference, but he sent me a video, so I will share my screen and turn this on, and we'll do that first. Okay, so there he is in Vienna. It looks like it's cold. There already.

Speaker 3  08:55
Hello everyone. Greetings from Vienna, Austria, between the St Stephen's Cathedral the hofberg. In figuring out the train system here, I've done my fair share of research on weird sniff style, apples, strudel, sacred torte and viel espresso. And I also just enjoyed a night of opera just today, but between the bites and sips, I discovered something new to me. It's called hemo, Pyro, like

Speaker 2  09:21
to be we don't see him, though. Are we supposed to see him in wine?

Unknown Speaker  09:25
You don't see him? No. Let me figure it out. Okay.

Speaker 1  09:34
In the meantime, I don't know I have it. Just screen sharing. Stop screen shop, share.

Unknown Speaker  09:49
Did you hear him?

Speaker 2  09:51
No, we heard him before, but his image was not there.

Unknown Speaker  09:56
Okay, well, let's see here. I do you

Unknown Speaker  10:15
see him now?

Unknown Speaker  10:16
Not yet? No.

Speaker 1  10:20
Says I'm screen sharing. I'm looking at him, and it says I'm screen sharing. So now we see him. Now we're not

Unknown Speaker  10:30
we saw him at my brief moment.

Unknown Speaker  10:34
Okay, try it now. You see him now. Not yet.

Unknown Speaker  10:42
Yeah, I see him now.

Speaker 1  10:44
Okay, all right, let me start over. Yes. Dr Shane Garris, you get any idea of what kind of outfit you're speaking to tonight?

Speaker 3  10:56
Hello, everyone. Greetings from Vienna, Austria, between St Stephen's Cathedral, the Hochberg. In figuring out train system here, I've done my fair share of research on weird sleep cell apples, strudel, sacred torte and real espresso. And I also just enjoyed a night of opera just today, but between the bites and sips, I discovered something new to me. It's called hemo Pyro lactomoria, or HPU. It sounds like a fancy Austrian wine, but instead of leaving you tipsy, it leaves you anxious, fatigue and zinc deficient. So this is something that I found out here in the conference just recently in Europe or Austria. So HPU is when your body makes too many Pyros, byproducts of evil. Global problem is these Pyros clings to zinc and vitamin b6 and drags them out of the body. Even if you eat well, you end up with functional deficiency in the specific nutrients, which messes with new transmitters, hormones, detox, fast pathways and stress. Resilience, classic signs, anxiety, depression, mood swings, fatigue, PMS, poor dream recalls. So remember that one white spots on the nails and stress incontinence, if often flares at hormone transmission, such as puberty, pregnancy, menopause, so it fits right into our anti aging world. So why care? Neurotransmitters drop here because it lowers down serotonin, dopamine and GABA, oxidative stress rises. Zinc loss leads to accelerated aging. Hormones wobble, PMS, perimenopause, adrenal fatigue and detox pathways alters mold infections, toxins hit harder to our system. And here's the kicker, HPU is now joining our favorite complex diagnoses, the ones where a storm of symptoms appear from nowhere, like Lyme, mold illness, mast cell activation and chronic fatigue, even at this early but intriguing. There are studies out there. Warren et al, 2021 the systemic review showed pyrroles higher in psychiatric patients versus controls. The reorgan clinic actually elevated Pyro is linked to zinc b6 deficiency with improvements on replacement a microwave study higher pyrroles than schizophrenia, bipolar and ADHD cohorts. So not a gold standard study yet, but clinically meaningful testing. Yes, there is urinary crypto pyrrole test. Just remember, samples are light sensitive, or your patient's parallels vanish, like my strudel. Just yeah, I ate yesterday. Treatment is safe and practical, v6, in the form of key 5p 25 to 100 milligrams daily zinc, a colonate or citrate, 25 to 50 milligrams daily magnesium, 200 to 400 milligrams, daily antioxidants, vitamin c5, 100 to 1000 milligrams, vitamin E, or glutathione per person, such as NAC plus stress management and anti inflammatory diet. So HP, you isn't in mainstream textbook yet, but in integrative medicine, it's a valuable clinical lens, especially when mood and hormones and fatigue don't add up. And with that, I'll sign off. Coming to you from cold Vienna here in the coffee shop full of schnitzels, strudels and good coffee to deliver you your tip or leak of the week, see you again next time

Speaker 1  14:26
There you go. So, so Dr Nario is giving a a,

Speaker 1  14:39
okay? So Dr Nario is giving a talk in Vienna at the, I think, one of the universities there. So tonight's topic. So our speaker tonight is David Chang Garis, and his topic is muscle, microbiome connection reversing aging with related muscle decline. I got a hold of Dr Shane Garris CV, and wow, what a superstar.

Bill Clearfield  15:16
And I'm not going to read all of it, but it's really quite impressive. The best part, of course, is that he had did his internship and some of his red fellowships at the at Penn State University. And so I was there in 2002 1002 Doctor shangharas. I worked with the with the in the training, trainers, with the the football team, as an as an acupuncture assistant, of all things. So it was after. It was after the decline, and it was during the time when Jerry Sandusky abruptly retired. So nobody knew why. So it was, it was after the heyday of the football game. So, but Dr shangharas has patents, honors and awards, board certifications, university faculty positions at the University of Texas, University of Louisville,

Unknown Speaker  16:10
FDA registrations, 123456, that I get six or seven different patents

Bill Clearfield  16:18
on, on different types of items, articles, too numerous to even mention chapters in books, case reports, abstracts and letters. I mean, it just goes on and on and on. I mean, when did you have time to sleep or eat or anything? I mean, it was unbelievable. So I put a synopsis in the email this week, and it really does not do him justice. So, Dr shangharas, I'd like you to just, why don't you just introduce yourself and and take it away. You are muted at the moment, though. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  17:03
uh, unmuted. Okay, I'm unmuted. Now

Unknown Speaker  17:05
you are good. You're good to go, sir.

Speaker 4  17:08
All righty. I don't know how to do you have the just I'll talk for a moment. But do you have the slideshow? The slide show, or do I need to put it up?

Unknown Speaker  17:22
Usually we like the speaker to do it so they can, they can,

Speaker 4  17:25
you know, okay, I'm prepared to do that if, if

Unknown Speaker  17:29
need be. I can do it for I can break, get it up,

Speaker 4  17:33
and I should be able to do that. I'm having fun getting to know all you guys, it's it's really a pleasure to meet people who are trying to survive in this wonderful world where medicine is more interested in indications than results. I suspect you folks are more interested in results than indications.

Speaker 1  18:01
So it's kind of, I think we kind of like both. But most of most of our crew, have been beaten around by the by the powers that be in one form or another. In fact, our whole society was canceled by the AOA in 2022 we, we, we were, we were summarily drummed out of the AOA after 50 years as a subspecialty.

Speaker 4  18:26
Yeah, the I had a similar, probably more than one similar moment, but the one that around that time similarly, because of the nature of covid and the work I'd done on the brain Renate angiotensin system, I was able to sort of guess that a molecule that I've been working with would be effective at killing covid virus. And so I tried to present this to the feds, and I didn't know at the time how much of a thumb was on the scale? So I I pushed pretty hard and then got nowhere, obviously, but I had a solution that would effectively treat covid and by nasal

Unknown Speaker  19:20
spray or nebulizing. And very simple. I how it came about. As a family doc was given the terrible job of

Speaker 4  19:35
putting people to bed, as it were, who were turned away at the peak of covid. Of course, the ICUs were all full, and these were all people who were obese, hypertensive, mainly of color, but they were definitely people who were more likely than not to die. Many of them had difficulties with hypoxia, and Sven called me up and said, I hear you're doing something with did we just go dark? Have I been cut off? No, okay, okay, good.

Speaker 1  20:12
We're seeing this view of you, though, that is that, is that your is that your best site? We're not seeing a front one.

Speaker 4  20:18
I can sort of get like this. The the whole thing, I ended up sending him the material, and he treated about somewhere between 102 100 people, and they all survived. We tried to. He did get it published several places, but when his parent organization where he's working on found out about it, they wouldn't let him publish that, even though it'd been accepted, he notified them that was going to be published, and so they spiked the paper back then, and somehow or another, all the publications that were out in the different places. All disappeared for about for many years. It still exists in an obscure place in Europe, but because of all the folder roll that's gone on, Sven was finally given permission to do a retrospective on these patients, and so he's he's in the final stages of publishing this, and so it'll be fun to see this one finally get out. And I'll explain to people that the chemistry of it, it it is straightforward. A little is biochemical, but it is straightforward. And I'm not. I developed dystonia back in 1997 so and I was since I was at such a time doing research, I sort of basically chose to do outpatient trauma. No one else bothered to doing this, at least in the medical community, and so I was, I've been treating brain injuries for the last 25 years, and noticing that they're all developing stiffness and fulfill the definition of Parkinson's disease. And out of this came a lot of the work that you're going to see today. And I hope it's fun for you. It does invite you into a new world where there are lots and lots of opportunities to be very helpful to your patients, I'd have to say, as a neurosurgeon, my life was pretty bleak. I mean, it rarely did I ever see somebody really get better, especially in the kinds of people I treated at the university were moderate to severe brain injuries. So these people never got better, at least, they certainly didn't go back to the kind of profession that they did. But the mild traumatic patients that that, that I was able to pick up and document, that you don't really help those people. And it's it's been fun to cobble simple tools that are repeatable and make some sense. So that's where I'm at right now. I'm trying to come out of the closet, if you will, on some of the work that I've been doing, because it unfortunately or fortunately, it's, it has more value than my ego, so I have to put it out instead of just let it shuffle into oblivion. So that's, that's what I'm here to do today, to try to explain what I've been doing off on the backwoods country side of Louisville, Kentucky. Does that help? Hello, it does. Okay, good. I'm ready to begin when you are we're ready.

Unknown Speaker  24:14
Okay, I'm going to put this up, I hope. And from beginning, can you all see this and see my slide?

Unknown Speaker  24:34
No, see you.

Speaker 4  24:36
You see me? Okay, let's see what's here going on here. There has to be a way to share. The screen. Share here. Screen, share. Okay, can you see the plan? Now, everybody, you got it? Okay? From the beginning,

Unknown Speaker  25:02
yep, says the plan.

Unknown Speaker  25:04
We'll make it big. So we got to strain our eyes from the beginning. Is this clean for people?

Unknown Speaker  25:15
Looks fine? Okay?

Speaker 4  25:21
I think the muscle spindle is a neglected part of the anatomy, and it has enormous clinical significance, and I beat my head against when I started treating people with extreme rigidity, when I would reverse rigidity, they basically couldn't walk. They were using their rigid muscles and and so what I had to do is literally slow down the treatment of the reversal of the rigidity that we have in place so that they could learn how to innervate their muscles again, and that would take months, and I finally, sort of played a detective, and have come down to believe that This is muscle spindle going on, and it ties back to some of the work that I was exposed to when I was a resident, when I was at Charleston, South Carolina, way back then, the NIH made the Medical University the southeast catchment for all spinal cord injuries, so we were seeing anywhere from two to six spinal cord quads or near quads a week. It was a huge service. We had a nine bed under surgical ICU. The general surgeons refused to come into it unless they needed somebody needed a chest tube. And nowadays they have teams of dozens of people doing what you know a lowly resident was doing, taking care of all these people. So I got up front, very personal with these people who are quadriplegic, and they would invariably develop severe muscle atrophy very quickly over the first six weeks. I'm going to talk about these points, the clinical definitions of rigidity, and why I think it points to the muscle spindle. We'll talk about some of the structural anatomy of the tendons and the and as it relates to rigidity. And then we're going to take a step off into probably a place you haven't walked into, and that is the influence of the skin microbiome on muscle tone. And some of the novel therapeutic approaches that you can have profound results if you incorporate such and and bring up a word that is going to get to be really important, and that's quorum sensing agents. I think this is the what's going to happen in the next 10 years. So let's talk about what rigidity is for me. I go back to a 2003 meeting put on by the PD pods and the NIH they were trying to figure out just what rigidity means. Everybody was going crazy trying to get the definition. The most remarkable thing about this meeting is they actually came up with a definition that they agreed to. You know, there's a joke about that. You can't get three doctors to agree to buy $1 for 50 cents, and doctors earned that. And so I'm just saying they came up with the diagnose. The definition of rigidity is that it simply is the failure of the opposing muscle to relax. So when you I'll spend the moment developing this, but when you try to move in one direction, the muscles pulling the other directions are supposed to get silent and in rigidity, that doesn't happen. And you have to sort of keep that in mind, it's a very simple thing that the muscles that are supposed to relax don't relax. Now this is a typical thing that probably everybody has seen, where somebody comes in complaining of elbow problems. Now I offer to you that we blur our eyes when people talk about elbows, because the number of people who actually have tenderness in the joint of the elbow, or it's relatively small compared to the people who have tenderness in the muscles of supination and pronation. And we'll talk about that, because that's really important to the wrist. I'm going to use the wrist and forearm muscles as a as a kind of prototype. But everything I'm saying here can translate to back and translate the leg and foot, ankle, whatever you want to work on. But here you can see he's pointing through this old medial ulnar area, and we all know what that means. Now I want to reduce the scenario to to the simplest way of thinking about it. Me, anyway, we have a brain, we have a spinal cord, and we have muscle, and a muscle has an attachment at two ends and tendons that sort of hold the muscle, and these sort of reach in, like fingers and hold it. And this thought experiment, if you will, shows that if you have a flexor and an extensor muscle attached to the same point on either sides, what you do is you create pretty much what goes on in the in the human body, and when one contracts the this green pole will move to the right, and when the other contracts, then the green pole will move toward that one. But that's strictly dependent on whether or not the opposite muscle relaxes. Now I want you to give some thought to what would happen if these muscles have increased tone. What will happen is you're going to increase a downward force. Here I show the an arbitrary unit of pressure, because all muscles have a certain force. So this is pulling on once it's stabilized here, and together, they make a vector that goes straight down and produces a a measurement with a half a kilogram of force or half a Newton, depending on how you want to define it. But nonetheless, the more tension you have, the higher this is. Now I offer to you that as we age, these muscles, in my opinion, have increasing tone in a borderline symmetrical fashion. But what makes it hard for us is that we cannot relax our opposing muscles so we and the evidence of that is loss of range of motion, and every time we try to exceed that, we rip muscles and create pain in the muscle. What I'm going to show you is a way to reproducibly relax the muscles so you can increase range of motion. And if you do that, you can literally functionally turn back the clock. Now I'm going to go over some of the simplest stuff of you know, muscle physiology, 101, this is the so called myotatic reflex, where you have a an efferent coming from the muscle spindle that you excite, and it goes through the spinal cord and has a monosynaptic on the arc synapse on the motor the Alpha motor neuron, and causes the muscle to contract, and there's complex communication crossed extensors, and I'm not going to get into that, but just understand that muscle spindles have a tone. We have 30,000 muscle spindles in our body, and they fire somewhere between 50 and 100 times a second. That's a lot of information that our brain is constantly being bombarded with. But this is the basis by which our brain can figure out where our body is and how we can catch a baseball or a football or whatever it is that we want to do. Here we talk about now we're talking about the 30,000 spindles. If you take away the voluntary movement of a muscle like in quadriplegia,

Speaker 4  35:14
these people develop muscle atrophy and very hyperactive attendance. It almost feels like what used to be a muscle is nothing but a fibrous band. And clinically, it's you really can't overcome these. If you try to, you'll rip things onto more severe patients. And in this situation, you have a an efferent coming from the muscle spindle that synapses on on on the muscle spindle itself, and you what it tightens up and creates a feedback mechanism where the muscle itself is in contraction, so the denervated muscles become progressively contracted by the muscle spindle. In the simplistic point of view, the muscle spindles themselves create this rigidity, and so it's in both legs or both arms. And if they have it in abundance, they can stand on these and you can get people to literally walk on their rigid muscles in the first few days after complete quadriplegia using various techniques, but it's all because these muscles are strictly very, very rigid. Now I offer to you that over time the body forgets, if you will, how to trigger the muscles with the traditional efference that are responsible for voluntary control of the of the muscle. If you look at the this reflex compared to the voluntary movement of a muscle, this Myo, Myos, spindle reflex, where you, you excite this and you, and you produce a discharge of the gamma efferent here, this only takes 30 milliseconds. It takes about 200 milliseconds for you to think of something and move your big toe maybe a little longer. That means this muscle, if it's innervated, can make this trip six times while you think about moving it once. It basically teaches the when this is going full blast, it basically teaches the spinal cord to ignore the voluntary input. Now, obviously in quadriplegia, there's no voluntary input, but I offer to you, I I think this is what happens in aging, is that we lose the capacity to find motor control our muscles, because the gamma efferent of the muscle spindle are firing without ever being inhibited. I would also like to point out that in quadriplegia, the Yeah, the muscles do undergo serious, severe atrophy in about four to six weeks, and there's nothing on God screen acres that can reverse this. They have tried everything. You can put electricity to the muscle, you can inject it, you can do all sorts of neurotropic medications and the like, but nothing really stops it. And there's something in the nerve from the brain that makes a muscle be a muscle, whether this is a hormone, whether this is some kind of peptide that communicates something that we haven't quite figured out. But it's very clear that if a muscle doesn't have innervation from the thinking part of our brain that involves movement, our muscle atrophies, and I think this is the basis for the so called loss of muscle with aging. Again, the reflex, monosynaptic arc of the muscle spindle is 30 milliseconds. Again, the voluntary typically, 100 200 the if you have a disordered muscle spindle, if there is a chemical that activates the muscle spindle, if there is something going on in the muscle spindle, on its own, you can't stop it. You cannot stop what a muscle spindle does with a voluntary movement. Now I'm going to bring up something that probably this is probably Coles to Newcastle for osteopaths, for most MDS. This is, this is forbidden territory. We don't talk about interneurons, but interneurons are the nerves that live between the sensory nerves that have cell bodies in the dorsal root ganglion and the anterior motor cells of the body and inside the muscle spindle, you'll see really complicated feedback mechanisms. This is a wonder that it works, and all of this is under the influence of some pretty powerful neurotropic chemicals, and we'll talk about those. So the one a afferent does something, the one the two a, two a afferent does something. All of these things are important, and they can inhibit the ipsilateral muscle or excited and do the same on the opposite side. And I would offer to you that what makes a great athlete, a young athlete, a great athlete, is they can train these things, almost to do things by themselves, without having to think without the input of the the brain, the the players, the chemicals, the neurotransmitters, when you look at the muscle spindle firing, the ones that can shut it off, GABA, aminobutyric acid, I'm sure you all think about GABA, a lot, glycine, a strong one, dopamine, opioid peptides.

Unknown Speaker  42:47
Now we're also going to talk about substance P because this has

Speaker 4  42:58
conducive lots of different things, and we'll talk about that in a moment. But if you're going to excite the muscle spindle, glutamate, does it? Acetylcholine, norepinephrine, serotonin. So we have many, many, many mechanisms to make the muscle spindle fire. The thing about substance P is that it looks like it's really, really important. And let me explain why. This is a paper that was published just a few years ago. I love histochemistry. I cut my teeth on immunocytochemistry from a research perspective, but this is an elegant demonstration of immunocytochemical substance P in a tenocyte. These are cultured tendon cells where they were able to grow them in a petri dish, a little tiny, little, actually, little cell. And the cell was mobile, so that they could put pressurize the bottom of the dish, and when they did, they could produce a kind of a stretch of the tendon and then monitor what was going on in that, in these tendon cells, but the all this sort of yellowish green stuff, that's substance P, what in the world you know is substance P, doing, being made by a tendon cell. And this is from probably something that happens in injury, and it probably happens when it's being stressed by stretching. When substance P is around, it can get taken up by neurons. Now, gold nanoparticles, if you put it on the skin, will be found in the spinal cord within six hours, if you're a rat. Now, this is a pretty profound thing, the the ability of nerves to transport large proteins, even viruses, from the periphery, back into the spinal cord, and from the spinal cord, or from the dorsal root ganglion to the skin, is well known. That's what herpes zoster is all about. And rabies gets into the brain through the gamma motor neurons, not through the blood. So these nerves have a complicated system for taking up peptides. If substance P gets into the inter neuron space, it will produce sustained firing of the interneuron for hours. And if it gets taken up in abundance, it would take a long time. And I'm going to talk a little bit about clostridia, because clostridia has a protein in it that, when it gets in it takes literally weeks and months to get rid of now these are some of the findings of the paper were dealing with the tenocytes and the and the substance P, and you can see that substance P increases The the metabolic activity of the of the tenocyte. So these are rather known enhancers to correlate to but substance TP, by itself, increases the metabolism of the tendon cells, and it increases proliferation. So there are some really profound metabolic effects that substance P has when a tenocyte is injured, when a Tennessee is stretched in ways that we don't have full understanding, and if it leaks out into the cellular space around the tennessites, the nerves will take up these peptides and transport them back to the interneurons and produce sustained effects. Now whether these effects are inhibitory or excitatory, depends in large part,

Unknown Speaker  47:45
which neuron that takes it up. This this study, and this is the way I hope you can capture this.

Speaker 4  48:00
And this is a title. Substance P is a mechanical, responsive, autocrine regulation, regulator of human tenocyte function. And it not only does it increase the production of SP, but it also increases the receptor for the substance P so there's some real difficult moments here going on when you mess with the tendons of a muscle and injury. Now I'd like to introduce another component that I sort of hinted at that we have a skin microbiome. We have a gut microbiome. We talk a lot about the gut microbiome. Everybody. It's hard to find a woman in the United States that doesn't know they have a gut microbiome, but they don't think about their skin. And one of the things that's really true is that not only does our microbiome on their skin exist, we have a microbiome cloud that extends out two or three feet. And if you you can literally harvest this cloud of particles from our body. And conventional wisdom of people who actually work in this area is that the distribution of cellular elements is unique to the person that the cloud is around and you have to ask yourself, why do the bacteria and fungi of our bodies make a cloud of around us? The obvious component, and I'm not going to spend a lot of time here, is that they're they're communicating. They're doing something out in the air. People, when we walk through the forest in spring or by trees during spring, they give off these wonderful seeds and pollen that make us sick, and we just know that that's part of life, and they'll send out a lot of pollen to get one one new plant created. Now, the bacteria and fungus on and gram positive bacteria on our skin, they communicate with each other, and in that the best system known is the quorum sensing system that each of the if, say, if you're going to talk with about just a gram negative bacteria, they tend to use lactones. And the lactones can have varying length doodads on them, and they literally look like keys, like they and the and I'm going to point out to you that one, one of the near and dear molecules of alternative medicine, is ivermectin. And it, it really is a lactone. Vitamin C is a lactone and and when you start looking at these chemicals as lactones, capable of engaging in direct communication with the bacteria in our biome, all of a sudden things get interesting. The gram negative bacteria like E coli, actually have receptors for adrenaline, so that means some of these bacteria can literally read whether or not we're excited, and they can make chemicals. We know that that Pseudomonas can make a compound that can make a mouse literally stare at the wall for six hours. Nanogram quantities of this given IP can do this. We know that, and that's called PQRS. PQRS say, I think that's the full acronym, pseudomonas, quorum sensing agent, nothing, nothing dramatic. Now that very same molecule can also turn off the immune system, and so now you have a gram negative bug that lives on our body, pseudomonas, that uses a quorum sensing agent to communicate with other bacteria to coordinate group activity. And that's the definition of a quorum sensing agent. Is that the quorum sensing agent is secreted in a discrete amount by a given bacteria, specific bacteria, and so that the concentration of the quorum sensing agent becomes a measure of the density of the bacteria present, and when it reaches a quorum, and it's different for each bacteria, it will engage in invasive group, invasive behavior. Pseudomonas will, for example, will develop a biofilm when it reaches a certain point, and when it does, it take, literally, takes 5000 times more antibiotic to kill than if it if it hasn't reached that density, but until it reaches that concentration, the bacteria remain silent. And there are many, many, many silent in terms of the development of a of a biofilm. There are many examples of other bacteria and fungi where there are group behaviors and what I've learned is that you can manipulate these with common, simple molecules that are part of our diet. Conjugated linoleic acid can at very low concentrations, can turn off the communication between certain bacteria like chromobacter and prevent the proliferation of the purple dye violaceum. I've done this in my lab. I can show I'm not going to show you pictures today, but that's that would be a whole other talk. But that's very clear that the molecular structures of concentrated with its diene, and I'll go through that in a moment. Are such that they will bind lactones and they will bind peptides, and they will bind other structures as well. Now, the actual lactones themselves can be used as either agonists, antagonists or competitive inhibitors, just like any other chemical agent, and we'll talk about that now in terms of is this significant? Does this have any clinical value? Here is a man who presented to me with a elbow that was driving him crazy. Played tennis and golf, but he was having trouble. He had a tournament that weekend, and he couldn't golf, and he was really unhappy. And so he came to me and and he had heard that I had had a magic potion, and could I wave my magic wand and make his elbow go away? And so I obliged him. Now we've been doing this for many, many months, and what I'm not going to show you the four minute one. We'll have to do that later, but 90% of this swelling in the elbow was gone at four minutes solely from the application of a quorum sensing antagonist. Now, if that doesn't get your attention, nothing else will. We completed the rest of our treatment protocol, and 30 minutes this, this is what he looked like, and his pain was down to one or two. He went out of the office, finished his golf tournament. He's not been back to see me. And this is six, seven months ago, or maybe, yeah, maybe a little longer now. Now this is a guy that presented to me from a car accident. He was having difficulty thinking, and he had fractured his second metacarpal here, and had been to an orthopedist. And this is how the orthopedist treated it, by bracing his two fingers here with these little ties. And you can see, this is not a happy hand. And he was having trouble sleeping, and he was taking narcotics, and it really wasn't touching it. And so I asked him if he wanted me to fix it, if he wanted me to help him. Now this, this was

Speaker 4  57:44
in December of 24 and I had pretty much established a protocol that was about an hour long to treat people, but I'd already been getting indications that that some of the effects were happening very quickly, and so just as a lark, I decided to interrupt the treatment, which involved multiple modalities, at 15 minutes. And this is what the hand looked like. And you can see there's a marked reduction in the swelling. The fingers look nowhere near as bad. This is 17 minutes later. This is the kind of treatment that I've been doing months prior to this, where people would come in with a limitation of range of motion from accidents or sports injuries. And this guy liked to weight lift, and he couldn't do it. And so he was showed up, he said, I want to be fixed. And so I put him through the process. Here, you can sort of see this is almost 60 degrees here, and an hour later, he looked at his face, and look at his face. Here he can put his hand, his wrist, up against the wall, and he was saying he had no pain. This is primarily from the manipulation of the quorum sensing system in the skin. No injections, all transdermal work. Now, admittedly, there was some infrared work in this. I'm not that. I think is super important, but this is not the lecture I want to bring up the infrared side of that treatment. Here we have a schematic of a synaptic blue tone. This is the other side of the synapse, and these little vesicles get filled with these complicated soup of synaptic vesicles. You can have all sorts of different things in the enzymes, ATP, and they, they get released into the synaptic cleft. The cell membrane, when it gets the right signal, will fuse with the synaptic vesicle here, and then release it into the cleft, and then we we get ignition. Now this is an important thing, exactly what motivates this synaptic vesicle to bind to the membrane here, there's a universe of information out there. But I want to point out to you that one aspect of the universe deals with tetanus, and what tetanus does. It's a product of clostridia, of course, Clostridium, botulini And we all know that we we get tetanus from a dirty wound. Say we step on a nail as a kind of, if you will, an example thinking experiment, the infection can be relatively small in the foot or in the calf or whatever, and it will eventually become gas gangrene and things like this. But long before it gets there, the the clostridia secretes minuscule amounts of botulino toxin, and this toxin gets into the bloodstream and taken up, but by the interneurons specifically, and this is well known, we know the structure of the botulino toxin. We know the sequencing of it. We know that there's a heavy sequence that binds a neuron and then it opens up the cell membrane and inserts a smaller protein fragment that blocks the ability of these synaptic vesicles to bind to the end plate, so that the interneurons that are capable of inhibiting a muscle reflex can no longer inhibit, and this is if the toxin gets into it. It takes a long time until the entire end plate is replaced. And that may take six weeks, two weeks two two months for that to happen. And in that period of time, the person develops lock jaw. So here you have a situation where you have a very small infection distally, say, in the foot and five, six feet late, distant, you get lock jaw, or you get opisthoughton. It's a generalized muscle contraction where a person arches his back and eventually can't breathe because he is or she is, so tight and tetanus still kills 300,000 people a year. I'm just going to by way of genuflection, just mentioned that the golden tendon organ does play a role in this. It would be nice if we could figure out a way to make it stronger, because these tendon organs are probably going to be more easy to influence. And I would offer to you that some of the work that is done on the physical therapy side of rigidity, where you do things to strengthen the tendon, you can literally do certain kinds of stretches that are static, where, if you hold a static position with 50 to 70% of the maximum capacity and and after about 30 to 60 seconds, the the muscle spindle just turns off, and this transfers a lot of information and need to the tendon, and can cause causes the tendon to more aggressively heal. And I think this is going to have this kind of activity is going to be tied up with this kind of molecular understanding I mentioned to you about ivermectin. Ivermectin is considered to be a macro lactone. I'm going to show you a little bit of its structure. That is somewhat speculative, but I offer to you that somebody needs to look at it to prove me that it's not what I point out is probably not real, but I bet you it is. And if anybody were willing to make a $2 bet over 15 years, I think somebody is going to prove the substance of this to be correct. Now, if the quorum sensing agent doesn't directly increase, the One A afferent firing when applied to a muscle, the one a firing is governed by mechanical stretch fusion motor activity, not by by bacterial the quorum sensing molecules do modulate the mammalian cell signaling and ion channel. So there's a plausible, but unexplored link. But this link isn't necessarily tied to the muscle spindles, but, um, I everything that I'm seeing when you do things to silence the muscle spindles, specifically, when you manipulate the the the chemicals of the muscle spindle, you can produce profound relaxation very quickly. And that's a large bit of my ongoing research in Parkinson's patients, especially those who have the more aggressive kinds of Parkinson's patients. The lactones suppress excitability through GABA glycine and chloride channels. They they sort of don't do it directly on the on the muscle spindle. But it's really important to like to find out the things that can directly inhibit the muscle spindles.

Speaker 4  1:06:58
Now this comes from a paper that I published about see what is this, almost October. So that's about eight months ago, I think, was published in curious back in February. And you can see this drawing of the forearm, very stylized, where we see the supinator here and the pronator here, and, and this is another pronator on the and you can imagine, this is sort of like a pole, like there, and this is producing a certain tension. This is producing a certain tension. And when you examine the extended wrist rotation. You take out the influence of the biceps, and the extended wrist rotation is used in the UPDRS, the unified Parkinson diagnostic research system, or something like that. I may have that not fully going, but anyway, it's used by the gold headed neurologist group, a goal headed cane neurology group, to diagnose Parkinson's disease by having them look at the extended risk rotation of rotating back and forth now, and that picks up rigidity. You lose the range of motion of the wrist in Parkinson's disease and in trauma. And this is where I've been able to see in my patients, especially those who have had a significant brain injury, demonstrated by video nystagmography, which is basically the only truly objective measure we have of brain injury clinically, other than just talking to the patient, now, if you have a brain injury, we know all the epidemiology that's come out in the last six to eight years that these People develop Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease and ALS, basically difficulty with locomotor activity and rigidity from my perspective, and I offer to you, from my clinical experience, that rigidity is like number one, number two and number three in terms of the aspect of somebody with a brain injury, enough where they had anxiety, headaches persisting for a long period, balance difficulties and tracking difficulties on on eye movement, that this person will more likely than not untreated, develop signs and symptoms of rigidity. I had one patient, who was a 36 year old electrician, came to me, and he had already, like within six or eight months, had already begun to have tremors, very, very mild, and he had significant loss of his extended risk rotation range. And I told him, I said, you're going to have trouble with Parkinson's disease. And he's very he sort of smiled at me and and just moved on. And He came into my office four years later, and he had florid Parkinson's disease. I photographed all this and videoed it, and he clearly had the Parkinson's disease, and he were just four years from the car accident, and I had him read the chart where i i told him that he was going to develop Parkinson's disease within the next 10 years. And, and because he disappeared from my clinic when I told him that, I said, Well, what was going on here? And and he said, I just didn't believe you, but I've gotten so stiff and I can't hold a screwdriver anymore, and he's having trouble earning a living as an electrician. We're now aggressively addressing his Parkinson's disease with significant improvement, but that'll be another lecture. Now, if we just look at the simple measure of the extended wrist rotation, as defined by the AMA Guides to medical impairment,

Speaker 4  1:12:02
the the arm is held in extension, and the thumb is is vertical. And when you rotate and externally, you're pronating, if you will, and if, and if or supernatant, and if you're if you're rotating internally, then you're pronating. And so you should have somewhere between 70 and 90 degrees of range from the vertical axis. And so if you look at the file, curios is a great journal. They will allow you to do a case series of up to five patients without having to go to an IRB as you know, IRBs are a pain in the two valuable they're important. But for early, early work, it it's just a lot of work to and I offer to you that this is a wonderful service that that cures does. So I looked at five patients who had bonafide brain injuries on B and G. And I published the B and G results in the paper, and I correlated to usually two or three years down the road, or maybe a little more, to the onset of rigidity in the forearm, where you can say the right external wrist rotation here is 40, in this case one, and the internal rotation is 60. And you can sort of see that not many of them are even close to 7080, 90 degrees. There was, this was a two part paper, one in which I developed a little toy for measuring this and we did studies with training nursing staff and physical therapy staff on how to measure extended wrist rotation so they could get some sophistication on clinical grounds. You can do this clinically a lot quicker than you can with the toy, but it's a good way of learning how to measure this. Now, in these patients, the they were treated on the wrist only with potassium CLA, which is known to be a cross Kingdom antimicrobial. It gets both gram positive, gram negative, bacteria and fungi, and we just applied it, and minutes later we repeated the treatment. One is we noted that the supernatural muscles over here at were usually very tense, and there was specific tenderness in in the supernatural as as they attach to the radius, and the there's an anatomical reason for that, and it has to do with there's actually a break in the attachments, and so that you can produce some dis synergy between the within the supernatural. And so you produce a very specific hot spot in the supernatural, and it can be very tender. It'll if you, if you hit it just right, the patient will say, please stop. And they will say, that's, well, it's not, you know, global, just that level of pain, they would say, if it were global, would be anywhere from a seven to a 10, seven to 10 out of 10. Now, if you apply this potassium satellite to the skin, you within minutes, cause the taut bands of the supernatur to relax and and the muscles feel like muscles instead of a bunch of ropes, and the range of motion improves quite dramatically. Obviously, this is statistically Good. Did all the right statistics for each one, and it's wildly positive, but so that's really the first demonstration I'm aware of in the literature. I'd love to be shown that I'm wrong. That shows that if you put something that affects the you the biome of the skin, like this potassium satellite that will get a broad spectrum amount that it inhibits. It will inhibit the rigidity of the muscles of the forearm now in defense of the potassium safflorate or CLA at very low concentrations, these bind quorum sensing agents. And so in some ways, you might be also watching the CLA creating radio silence. And I offer to you that this kind of understanding, where you have something directly communicating with the muscle to cause Local contraction is has a predicate and the the entire uh, the infections that we've talked about with with Clostridium. Now here is ivermectin. And what I what I want to do is point out that this oxygen and the carbon bonds here makes makes for a lac tone, and you have all sorts of different names for six members and five membered and four membered. And you can anything over about, I think 10 makes it a macro lactone. And you can see there's a there are all sorts of structures in this molecule here, but I want you to sort of blur your eyes or focus your eyes, whatever it is you want to call it, and look at this molecule here, and this molecule here, and the these are almost identical, and this is kind of, if you will. Like the structure of adenosine diphosphate where you have a this would be the homologous to the adenosine. And each of these molecules here would be like the phosphates. Now, these lactones, this, this molecule here, this bond here readily catabolized by many cellular processes. So this, if this molecule were floating along and came across a receptor before a lactone, this lactone would break off, in theory, and clog it up because it's this is not this structure is a little unusual. There aren't a lot of of, how shall I say, handles on this for the breakup of this particular lactone. So this big molecule would block a receptor, and then you have another one, identical that if you if you cut this off, then this molecule can block another one, or the you get two separate blocks if they both fall off, and then this whole molecule can go somewhere too. So ivermectin is like the superstar of potential at screwing up the lactone communication system of bacteria, fungi and cells. We've already talked about how tetanus toxin can block the release of glycine and GABA, the inhibitory neurons directly, we talked about the protein, specifically the protein that tetanus Clostridium releases is called synaptobrevin, and this snare protein. This synaptobrevin gets inserted into the interneuron and it blocks the snare protein, which is essential for the synaptic vesicle to fuse a newer transmitter release. This is a highly specific activity. One neuron, one interneuron is enough to kill you, one synaptobrebin. This is pretty specific,

Speaker 4  1:21:58
and we only have 10,000 different bacteria and fungi and different parts of our body, for as many as 30 to 50,000 on our skin. And I've already shown you that if you disrupt the skin, you can cause muscle relaxation, you can cause reduced swelling, and you can cause reduced pain. That that guy that with the second metacarpal fracture went off his narcotic that day and didn't go back on it, and he he's got full function of his hand right now. Took a little bit of while. That's a story by itself, but he made it back, stimulating 1b afferents in the tendon does not cause contraction. Instead, it causes inhibition of the same muscle. Just that these are the stars, if you want to, I only put this by way of letting you know that these are the superstars of neurophysiology and muscles. If you want to read these things, all this work was done. There's a lot we could relearn it. And what's fascinating is to look at it from the point of view of quorum sensing, potential interruption, interesting things can happen and do now substance P is what I'm proposing, is super important in aging. It is a neural transmitter, if you will. It is the sympathetic nervous system peptide that causes the sweat gland to make sweat, and it is also involved in pain production. The other chemical that's involved in neuropeptides is the calcitonin gene related peptide and all of these have lots and lots of places where the CLA can bind, and I'll sort of show that to you here. Neurokinin is in the tachykinin family, can contribute to smooth muscle contraction. So this can directly influence how your bladder empties. And there is possible ways, and I've seen it where this can reverse some of the bladder or difficulties in peeing as we age. Now. This is bradykinin, excuse me, sub, and you can see there are phenyl groups here, a phenyl group here. And here we have this nice little five membered with a nitrogen group pyrimidine. This too will bind the CLA. So we got four places where this molecule will will bind. Let me sort of show you that this is CLA, and the CLA is conjugated linoleic acid, and the key word is conjugated, and there is a world of information on conjugated molecules because the so called Diels Alder reaction, which got these two people a Nobel Prize almost 100 years ago, is probably the most frequently used pharmacologic synthetic step, because the Diels Alder reaction takes straight carbons and makes it a ring, but it is destructive. But I'm bringing this up, is that, not because this creates a destructive interaction and changes the molecular configuration of other molecules, but rather this configuration, this conjugation, is shares pi bonds. So this is a PI bonded sharing part of this molecule. And this is like a magnet. It's electron rich. And if you have a molecule that's electron poor, it's going to get attracted to this. Now these molecules can rotate around this single carbon molecule here. So this chain here and this chair chain can really do some fancy wrapping. Now, as I pointed out to you, and I've got, I published all this in the patent literature. So it's and but it is. I did publish a paper showing that CLA preparations can meet the EPA standards for hospital disinfection, and that's that's a very rigorous standard. It took us about, oh, six to 12 months to do it in our lab, to get that done right, and it will kill 10 to the 10th in 30 seconds of these virus and sundry bacteria in the right settings, at lower concentrations. I give it to my grandchildren, to for daily washing. I use it to shave and it I use it also to reduce rigidity. When I'm working out on a daily basis. It's a wonderful way to reduce rigidity per se. Now, if you look at the molecule, this is a stylized view of this. This is a just a wire stick, 3d rendering of this. And this is a phenol group, a six member penal group with shared pi bonds and and you can see that this is on top of four molecules, this molecule here, and this molecule here, these two molecules here, underneath it are the conjugation so the phenyl group will literally Share pi bonds in this. This is the exact structure that the Watson Crick, DNA, adenosine, thymine, guanine, cytosine uses to maintain the double helix. So this is a very common physical chemical attraction. And it stabilizes the CLA and is important both for messaging and for disrupting messaging. So this molecule is called a dienophile, because it loves conjugation, conjugated dienes, and and it seeks this out, and this was the basis of my speculation. Back in 2019 when the Chinese published the s1 spike protein, 30 to 40% of the the amino acids in that spike protein were phenylalanine and tryptophan. So I knew that that spike protein was going to be a very strong attractor of CLA and provided the basis for the subsequent studies that we did at the antiviral Institute in Utah, where they showed that the low concentrations down to 11 millimolar would disrupt the infectivity of the virus. Now getting back to this. This is another patient. This is an 80 year old man who was helping a neighbor repair a second story roof and second story window, excuse me, and he was carrying things up and down the stairs all day, and this knee got red and angry, and he came in, barely able to navigate the hallway, dragging his left leg into my suite, and we put him up and did our treatment, and an hour later, this is what his leg looked like. It probably looked close to this after 10 minutes, but I didn't know to look for it at that point. This was in October, and so you can put the timing together, you can say this was one of the ones that the effects were so dramatic. I said, What is going on with the swelling? And then I do believe that the most dramatic effects on swelling are caused by quorum sensing, competitive antagonists that are generally recognized as safe, sugars that are commonly found in our diet and can be purchased as such.

Speaker 4  1:31:43
The implications for clinical practice and ongoing research. I mean, you can reduce swelling, you can reduce pain with quorum sensing agents very quickly, to the point where you literally have to sit down with the individual and say, look, the pain is going to go away. With this treatment, the swelling is going to go down. If you go back and do the very same thing again, you're going to really cause problems. You need to take some time off and gradually, if you're, if you're, I take care of a good number of the people in the ballet community here in Louisville, and that they literally have to be put in choke chains because they want to go back and climb and jump and do things right away. And if there's evidence of any ligament disruption or torn tendons, or anything like this. You still have a disruption. The pain is significantly reduced, and the temptation is to go and and pressurize the joint, and you can get into some pretty significant secondary injuries very quickly in that setting so but if all you have is is just swelling without evidence of serious tendinopathy or ligamentous disruption, you can have people return to near normal functioning, and certainly normal range of motion functioning and limited weight bearing in such a way that you can, with Proper nutrition and other staged exercises, really facilitate their return to sports, to the ballet floor, very quickly in days as opposed to multiple weeks. There's need for continued research, obviously, to figure out why this is really going on. I need better protocols, smarter, people more I need people to actually, actually write things down very carefully and reproduces these things, because it's so exciting that when you're doing this, it's hard to stay on task, to develop repetitive procedures, because you're able to produce so many distinct effects where you can reduce swelling, you reduce pain, you reduce difficulties with range of motion. It it's just so much fun to be able to offer this. As I was saying, I'm a neurosurgeon. My patients never got better. This is such a wonderful time in my life where my patients are actually getting better. They come in hobbling, and they walk out not hobbling, as long as they don't go back to doing multiple stair climbs. So that's where I'm at.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:07
I throw it out to questions. Yeah, some of you have heard most of this before. I think

Speaker 1  1:35:16
I haven't anybody have any questions. I have nothing in the chat, which is pretty unusual. And Dr Nario is not here for the online questions. So anybody from overseas, if you have questions, you can put them in the chat here. That would be a help.

Speaker 5  1:35:34
This is Dr Patel, and I have a question for that. Chancaruz, I just wonder you, how did you use the CLA and how did you use the skin microbiome and ivermectin?

Speaker 4  1:35:54
No, I actually have not used ivermectin, but I wanted to point out to you that ivermectin is a lactone, and I would like to use it, but I'm, I'm, I've limited my studies to molecules that are generally recognized as safe for humans and from the FDA. This is an arbitrary decision on my part, just because I'm on the ledge so far out, I'm trying to limit the number of places where people can come at me. And I think ivermectin is going to be a very powerful molecule if applied to the skin in the setting. I don't know that. I've never done it. I have ivermectin, a bottle of ivermectin sitting on my desk. I haven't gotten the courage up to use it. But the other chemicals that are used in in foods, sugars, the gluconal lactones, the the these these are well known and, and I've submitted patents on over, over these things. They're, they're readily available. You can, you can, we can go Karana, lactone. These are sugars I use in power drinks.

Speaker 5  1:37:17
So would you? Would you use the CLA liquid and and rub on the muscles in rigid muscles in Parkinson's disease. Would that work

Speaker 4  1:37:32
Parkinson's disease early on in the first few months, it's like a light switch. It does block tremors very quickly. It's been going on for a couple, three years. I personally believe that there's an infection that extends through the the lymphatics of the skin to the muscles. Now, the lymphatics of the skin to muscles is a very specific uncharted territory. There are probably somewhere between 50 and 100 total papers in this anatomic region in the entire medical literature. As best as I can understand it is that the lymphatics of the skin is more like a sponge, and it was done mainly with immuno cytochemistry, and they can sort of generally collect the lymph fluid somehow, pretty much like a sponge mite, and then they coalesce to form something loosely Like tubules. And as they get near the muscle, they form valves. And when they're in the muscles, they have the valves. And when the muscles contract, then, because there are one way valves, they pump the lymphatics back into the venous system, but from the muscles to the skin, you're talking about a lymph space that I think is infected with something, and I don't know what it is, and you can feel them, The muscles are literally coated with nodules anywhere from a pea size to a grape size. And these are very, very painful, so I think they're probably loaded with substance P. The source of the substance P, I don't know whether it's autologous or infectious, but in those nodules surrounding the muscles is substance P and as I pointed, or something that causes really major pain. If you try to mechanically disrupt those things, you'll have a very unhappy customer. Anybody who's done myofascial work knows about these nodules, and they'll tell you that these things are very painful and they can't really do much with them because patients cannot tolerate them. Those people who can allow a myofascial therapist to aggressively approach these nodules can have profound and immediate improvement in range of motion and function I've seen it's taken me three four years to develop protocols utilizing quorum sensing molecules to block the pain that results from the mechanical disruption of these nodules, and so I can, I can, with the application of nodules and various physical modalities, I can eliminate about 80 to 90% of the pain, enough so that Most patients will allow me to physically disrupt the I the these nodules and open them up. Once we break through them, the we have immediate improvement with respect to rigidity and range of motion. But remember, the substance P has also probably been taken up into the spinal cord and has long, long acting changes in the inter neurons and the like. And when somebody has had this going on for five or six years, I'm wondering if, if somehow or another, the spinal cord isn't burned out, but if you get somebody in the first couple three years, you can turn these things off and produce profound and that can be sustained for decades.

Speaker 5  1:41:54
So what quorum molecule were you using in your patients?

Speaker 4  1:42:02
Many but the ones that I use routinely, because they're cheap and they're readily available, are glucronolactone and glucan of lactone. And this is very easy to make solutions, very easy to apply by spray. They also paint suppliers. They put these in drinks so that people use them for food.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:34
Do you spray or that on the skin? Or what do

Unknown Speaker  1:42:38
you do? Yeah, I spray it on the skin.

Speaker 5  1:42:42
And do spray it frequently or or just one time, or every five minutes, or something like that.

Speaker 4  1:42:49
It gets absorbed pretty quickly. And yes, we, we have a whole, there's a whole treatment protocol, and involves mechanical and electrical, and we have a complicated dance, but without the quorum sensing molecules, and we would not be able to do it. That allows you to do massage of these nodules that are so painful for people, they call them inflammatory nodules, things like this, but somebody needs to do A really, really good microbial study of these things. I think they're probably fungus. My candidate is Malassezia. I could spend an hour just talking about Malassezia, but I just wanted to talk about the muscle spindles and and how they affect tone and how you can interrupt it with a number of different ways, including the quorum sensing agents.

Speaker 5  1:44:08
Is it possible to get the treatment protocol that you are using?

Speaker 4  1:44:18
I haven't codified it enough. I'm still doing early work. I'm not I'm not really comfortable to put that out. It's I'm not trying to hide it, that you'll get substantial relief with the glucuronal lactone and the glucanolactone, if you use that as a spray, and the CLA soaps are easy to make or differences are we still on the CME time?

Speaker 1  1:44:45
Here we are just a couple, just a couple questions, and we can turn it off. So someone asked, what is a good source of CLA

Speaker 4  1:44:54
Well, that's why I wanted to, okay, if we were off,

Speaker 1  1:44:58
all right, hang on, okay. Well, thank you so much. Dr shedonis, unbelievably fascinating. And we'll see everybody next week, same time, same station, 5pm Pacific, 8pm Eastern, and we'll we'll see you soon. Okay, we're good to go now.

Speaker 4  1:45:22
Okay, you know, I feel like I've just sort of been through, in a way, the expert witness gauntlet, where you're not allowed to say the word insurance. You'll call cause a mistrial if you say the word insurance, so

Speaker 1  1:45:41
we kind of get used to it, and every once in a while, you know, there's a slip up. So so far, we haven't gotten dinged yet.

Speaker 4  1:45:51
Well, I didn't say ceiling naturals, and that's my company, and I worked for a couple of decades with step in that which making CLA and they visited me in the fall of 2019 before covid that tell me they sent the entire senior research staff down to sort of sniff me out, and because I've worked with them so much, And they told me in that meeting that we're going to sell me any more CLA, and told me to use other surfactants. And I said, thank you very much. And they never sold me another gram of CLA after that. And you can buy CLA from China, but it's always a moment when you're buying things that you can't fully validate from China. The CLA molecule made by stepn is problematic because they use a high temperature, high pressure system that creates two isomers. There are two double bonds in the CLA molecule, as you remember, and they can either be on the nine beyond the nine carbon, or on the 10 carbon, and 50% of the CLA is the nine and 50% of the CLA is the 10 there. So there are two isomers, basically in the commercial blends from stepn. Now, stepn has been bought out by BASF, and they've put their moniker on CLA and so you can buy CLA pills, and they use that for muscle development and for weight loss. Those are the two classic ways, and most of the CLA that step and sells goes to hog farmers because it increases the muscle mass of hog bellies, and they can literally dial in how much meat in a pork belly there is by how much CLA that you feed them. Humans have. There are studies out there. They were out and available, but Stefan took them off the market, where they showed that if you give Tolin to somebody three grams, you'll get about, on an average, you know, 10, 12% loss of what body fat, and you'll gain about 8% muscle Mass. And so you end up with a net weight loss of a few percentage points. You tighten your belt, but you don't really lose a lot of weight. And so it never really caught on as a weight loss. So it is I offer to people that CLA would be a good thing to explore, and I've done it with some and I do think it does prevent the sarcopenia of the GL, p1, agents that are used for weight loss. So I recommend people to take CLA orally with that. Now what steppin did in 2020 you know, the the laser printers were or probably cooling off while they were down talking to me, because they submitted a patent to the US Patent trade office early 2020 that was awarded to them About a year and a half later, where they showed that if they took their complicated isomer mixture and put it in a refrigerator, they could use complex centrifugation to isolate the 911 isomer. Now, the 911 isomer is considered to be the naturally occurring CLA isomer you have CLA in your body, especially if you eat lamb or grass fed butter, and it's a very important molecule for our health. I don't fully understand the physiology of CLA. It is anecdotally observed that women who breastfeed their babies will produce CLA in their breast milk and so but in general, we get most of our CLA from our diet now the 911 so when they told me they weren't going to give me any more CLA, and headed back to the sunset, back to New Jersey, I set out to make my own CLA, and I succeeded in burning my building down, or almost. And so I decided I couldn't use their off patent methods. I had to come up with something a little safer, and I found that I could make it with microwaves, and I've perfected that, and I have patent on that, and I they, they found that, if you use the 911 CLA from their work, that they reversed early cognitive failure in that 2020 patent. I think it came out in 2021 22 and they have sat on that patent, and they have not marketed any materials of the 911 I know that's kind of a bad thing with what 911 means to most people, but it is the naturally occurring CLA molecule is the double bonds on the ninth and the 11th carbon. And so that CLA, if you give that to people, it reverses early cognitive failure. And it's in my experience that the CLA that I make, the assays that I I do, show that because I can control the temperature, I can produce just the 911 in the microwave arena. And so I do sell that I hit is hidden on my website for people who I know the I'm allowed to sell it as a nutritional supplement. I'm not allowed to sell it as a treatment of cognitive failure, but it really does work. And the CLA that's available is, does it clinically the same way that the steppen did in their patent? But I'm not it's not on any of my writing. What I did show was that you can reverse some of the cognitive failure by just applying CLA to the skin. And when you do that, you improve rigidity. And that was a patent that was awarded December 24 of 2024 so that's just a year old, almost a year old. So when I apply the combination of the CLA with other things, then it augments this. But overall, the process improves cognitive functioning, mood, and if it isn't too far gone, it does functionally reverse what I think is early Parkinson's and early Alzheimer's. Whether it can do that in the later phases, in view of the molecular biology that I've outlined with the uptick of these molecules into the spinal cord, where they can burn out neural tracks, that's another thing. But I'm I just here, I am a neurosurgeon. I just think focusing on the brain is is reasonable, but part of the reason why they're not getting any really good clinical results. Oh, and by the way, l dopa. It it's shown that Malassezia gets more aggressive with L dopa around. So by giving l dopa to people, you're probably inciting the biome of the skin to eventually get taken over by the Malassezia and Parkinson and I think that's the reason why l dopa doesn't work long term, is because it's actually playing with the activation of pathogenic behavior in Malassezia and maybe other bacteria.

Speaker 1  1:55:23
Can you give us your website? Either, put it put it in the chat.

Speaker 4  1:55:26
It's sila natural C, double E, L, a as a cognate on sila, CLA, naturals.com Z, L, L, A, C, E, E, L, A,

Speaker 1  1:55:41
C, E, E, L, A, okay.

Speaker 4  1:55:45
Naturals, yes. And you should have my email, email me and I'll, if you want to. I have, I have a hidden website, and that gives you access to pills. The the body wash is generally available to the public, and that's what I used in my study that was published in cures.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:08
Is that right? C, E, L, A, naturals, dot, yes,

Speaker 4  1:56:13
yeah, yes, sir, there you go. Okay, anybody, I'm really easy to meet. I mean, my telephone number is everywhere I answer my phone,

Unknown Speaker  1:56:26
so there we go.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:29
Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Now, I

Speaker 6  1:56:34
just wanted to say, thank you so much. It's a very interesting and I I really honestly love this time at the end when we're able to speak freely.

Speaker 1  1:56:44
Yeah, well, we try to give, you know, the this, the CME bonus to those who want it.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:49
So hopefully it's a bit of an attraction, especially, you know, it gets down to the end of the year, and you know, you need the credits so. And with that, every week, on the on the when you get the email, you can get the what there's, there's at least 15 or 20 lectures on there with, with the links to get the credits also.

Speaker 1  1:57:11
So they're good for a year. It's 2am a CME credits for $50 So, okay, Doctor shigonas, this was eye opening, to say the least.

Speaker 5  1:57:28
Can we have his phone number? Please? 502-445-9471,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:40
thank you. It's on the website too, by the

Unknown Speaker  1:57:42
way. Okay, thanks a lot.

Speaker 4  1:57:50
Thank you for having me. It's been a real joy to share this information with thank you with you

Speaker 1  1:57:56
always, always exciting. Okay, anybody else have any comments

Speaker 7  1:58:00
or questions? Yeah, I'm going to make a comment. I met Patrick shankers, I guess what, through Doctor Joseph and maybe Dr Platz, and I was having a problem with neuropathy at night, when I wanted to go to sleep, and I would take the body wash, and I would put some on my feet and my, you know, leg and you know, and calf, right? And the pain would be immediately reduced almost by half, and I was able to go to sleep. And, you know, these products were incredible. And I've tried the pills, and I would make a smoothie, and they help my mental acuity. So I think that's rather amazing that his work is leading in that direction. And in terms of Sports Medicine and pain reduction, the case histories I've seen are amazing. So guess my two cents. I mean, I know firsthand. I've tried it and his products work. They're amazing. And I've also brought people to see him, and they've had excellent results as well.

Speaker 1  1:59:22
Mm, okay. I'm looking at your website now. I see, you know, product, magnesium products and clean products, and looking on my phone. So I don't have the, I don't know where to the hidden stuff.

Speaker 4  1:59:35
The Secret stuff is, you just have to email me and then I can, I have to do something inside that. So if you log in, you'll get the you'll get the inner

Speaker 1  1:59:47
website. You deal with practitioners and, you know, like, you know, oh,

Speaker 4  1:59:50
yeah, yeah. We have a system for them to buy bulk and things like that.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:58
Can you share the email? Then, please.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:04
You have it.

Speaker 4  2:00:06
Sharing emails is the hardest thing to get right, because the letters all sound the same. Anyway, it's my initials. DGC, MD, paper, it's dog, good, cat, mother, dog, dgcmd at Sealand, naturals.com

Speaker 4  2:00:30
but that's not that's on the website too. So Okay, all right, and if you type in chan Garrison, neurosurgeon, it'll pop up, and Louisville, it'll all pop up. So it's not really easy. You can always call my office, my clinical office. We do a fair bit of work with neuropathy, and it's really gratifying to see the reduction in pain so quickly.

Speaker 1  2:01:01
I hope I got it right there, DG, CMD, at CE, E, LA, naturals.com, is that right? Yes, sir, yes, sir. Okay, here we go.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:11
Okay, all right, wow. I got nothing to add. Thank you so much.

Speaker 1  2:01:21
And we'll, we'll be in touch. We'll send you the the contact list, and we'll send you video when it's ready.

Speaker 4  2:01:32
Super, super. I really do appreciate the opportunity to talk to

Speaker 1  2:01:36
you. We we'd be happy if you would be on our mailing list. We're here. We've been here since 2020, every Tuesday night, at five o'clock Pacific, eight o'clock Eastern. We're here every week.

Speaker 4  2:01:48
I think I've already signed up, but okay, I'll check. If it's not, I'll do it again.

Speaker 1  2:01:55
Yeah, I'll check. And so let's see. Dr Quinn, are you still here? Or Dr Tano,

Speaker 8  2:02:04
yeah, I'm still here. I think Dr Tano is too little

Speaker 1  2:02:08
update on your, your your participation coming up in December.

Speaker 8  2:02:12
Yeah. Well, first of all, thank you to Dr shangaras. He. He actually presented to us on our Saturday group about a month or so ago, and we were looking into connection with the tribes at safflower if I believe Dr shangirus, if that's right.

Speaker 4  2:02:30
The what was the word you were using? That on safflower

Speaker 8  2:02:33
oil? Yes, yes. Something about having, having some tribal lands produce that for you.

Speaker 4  2:02:42
So number, right, right? That's exactly right. What happened is, is that the the big boys and in the food producing took out linoleic acid from safflower oil and made it oleic acid. Took out the two double bonds and made it a single bond for shelf life and for cooking heat, not for nutritional value. And they have sold physicians and the American public that CLA that doesn't have an Omega six double bond is an Omega six, and it befuddles me, and they include it in the Omega six Omega three ratio. And yet, there's a wonderful, thoughtful paper that just came out that pointed out that linoleic acid, the more you get, the less heart disease you have, and and more omega three, the less heart disease you have. And as a matter of fact, Omega three is a better at it than like but they both. You don't want to cut out your linoleic acid to have a better ratio. But and if you certainly, if you cut out the Omega three, you'll get a sky high ratio. And, and the idea of incorporating linoleic acid in that formula, I think, is crazy and, and the only place you can get linoleic acid now that I'm aware of is with grape seed oil. And that's about 40% of grape seed oil is linoleic acid. But you need linoleic acid. And right now, if you don't buy grape seed oil, you're not getting it unless you're eating meats, and then you're probably not getting a bunch. So, and this is an important molecule, and the it was vitamin F, it's the most important essential oil and the somehow or another, the the food industry is just not a number on this. And the reason why I was going to the Indian reservation is because one is it's it's on the continent, and two is, they have many Indian nations grow safflower oil for food and for medicinal purposes, and they have what you would call Ancient Seeds that haven't been manipulated by anybody. And so that was my, my goal, to see if I could, my bias would be just to move the whole operation on Indian on the Indian Reservation. Let them grow the safflower oil. Let me make the stuff and distribute it from the Indian Reservation. Right, right, but, you know, it's hasn't gotten very far. It's the politics of tribal life is makes it hard for communication.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:53
Yeah,

Speaker 8  2:05:54
no, understood. We're deep in, deep into that. One of our projects, the apothecary project, is something that we want to do to help carry and produce and create products that are hard to get, that maybe have been manipulated, and the good things have been taken out or destroyed, or something like that. We want to, you know, it's like a back to nature type of thing. So we're going to stay in touch with you to let you know how we're doing on this, because there is a big push for growing things on tribal land. I'll leave it at that. So that's, again, that's one of our big projects, and we're going to be talking a little bit about that on the conference in December, which Dr Clearfield and everyone else is pretty much in the forefront of our minds. As far as the Saturday group goes, we've been talking a lot about that. The other thing is, besides the apothecary and how we are going to carry and produce products, the other thing is how we're going to inform clinics and educate people who want education through organizations that are probably going to accredit and and give certificates as well as degrees. There's a quick program, I say quick, Dr Tano, I don't know if anything is quick, because his stuff is so in depth, but he has programs that people can get in and learn some basics of functional medicine and whatnot. So we're going to bring it. We want to bring it all home under the auspices of maybe First Nations medical board or the tribal nations themselves. And there are things that are set up, but we won't get into

Speaker 1  2:07:41
that now. Great. Okay, and so far, the speaker lineup, I think there's a couple of spaces left, but the speaker lineup is on the website there, and it should be going out. Everybody that's on this call is probably going it's right here. I'll copy it again at the end here. And everybody that's on this call should be getting an email. Let me know if you don't. Probably within the next 24 hours, if it hasn't already gone out,

Bill Clearfield  2:08:15
we'd love to see in Reno if not, I know it's short notice. We have it online. It's less expensive online, 20 CME credits is pending ama CME credits and 20 credits for the homeopaths, if you need homeopathic credits for your homeopathic license also, and we have a great lineup.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:38
We go through that real quick. I quit. I don't see my screen here.

Speaker 1  2:08:49
Stop sharing your screen. Dr chagonus, and share ours. And here's our schedule. Dr Burgess, Dr Tanner is going to be speaking about that. Tobin is that's his framework for functional medicine. Correct me, if I'm wrong, global medicine perspectives with Dr James, he speaks about bias in AI, like medical bias in AI, Dr Dimitri will be talking about heavy metal detoxification, sovereignty and healthcare that's near and dear to all of us. The apothecary project from Dr Quinn, Dr Halas is going to be speaking about his chronic disease management program that'll be Saturday, advanced bio, b, h, R, T and drug interactions. Dr Sahar swedan. You know her from a forum. She's one of one of the main a forum folks. And Dr Corazon, a bear that she is. Dr Mario's band and she, she's, she's actually pretty interesting. She's, she speaks about some sort of spiritual issues. Dr Quinn is going to regale us on cannabis, and Paul Anderson, who's well known in the naturopathic world, will be speaking to us a bit about telomeres. Chris Kelly is we had her on here once she she's the sort of the radon queen of of Nevada integrative dentistry. Dr Aaron Wolf is one of our prime homeopaths here in Reno. I'm going to be speaking on my 50 years as an anti aging physician, I'm going to go decade by decade. Those of you may not know I was actually when I was a medical student. I was actually at one of the original Pritikin programs, so I'll remind you way back when, when, when, when, no fat diets were a thing, all the way up to Regenerative Medicine. Dr levy on vitamin C. Dr Felice Gersh, who is well known in the hormone world, will be speaking on estradiol and progesterone in the female brain. Dana Ullman again on homeopathy. Dr Gerber on homeopathy. Dr Devlin and integrative oncology. Greg James will be talking about ketamine and our resident and our resident, veteran veterinary, integrative veterinarian, Dr Siegel, and then we'll do a brief wrap up. So that's our lineup so far. We probably can fit in one or two more folks if, if you're interested, please let me know. And my experience running these programs, we usually get a couple of folks who can't make it, and we have to fill in. So if you're interested, and we can be on standby, please let me know, because otherwise, then you have to listen to more of me to fill in so and we know that that's not always, not we never mind that. Okay, so that's the lineup so far. There's registration pages on here. It's not that expensive compared to some of the other conferences that I'm seeing. You know they're charging crazy prices for and you do it online.

Speaker 9  2:12:20
You got us all on Saturday with only one hour, each of four of us, not three hours.

Speaker 1  2:12:28
We'll talk about it. Don't worry. Doctor Garber, we'll, we will take care of it for you.

Speaker 9  2:12:36
Yeah, they again. I had levy for three hours and and Dana and Dana for two. But you know, that's what I had asked

Speaker 1  2:12:49
of them. Okay, all right, I didn't make the schedule. This was just handed to me, so I'll get on the phone with you in the next day or two. We'll get this we'll get this correct.

Speaker 9  2:13:00
Okay, thank you very Yeah, we're paying quite a bit to get levy up here from Columbia.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:06
All right, we'll, we'll take care of it. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:13:10
all right. Thank you very much. Nobody.

Speaker 1  2:13:12
Don't panic. Okay? All panic. We still got, we still got an hour and a half before the program starts, so don't worry about it. Okay, we'll fix it. Okay. Any questions about anything? Any comments? Okay. Dr shigonas, if you're still there, thank you again. So much. That was unbelievable information, and let's see. Stop the share. Don't get your don't get your hairs in a curl. Doctor Gerber. We will, we will. We will make whatever, whatever corrections need to be made. We will make them.

Speaker 9  2:13:50
Okay. And of course, my title is the same one I did in August.

Speaker 1  2:13:55
Okay, for you, we'll, we'll do that. Okay. All right. All right. Okay, everybody. Thank you. So we had a little change in schedule next week. So I'm still not, I still don't have a confirmed speaker. We will have somebody that will be hitting clean up for Dr. She gonna so, so won't be it'll, you know, every week it's gets harder and harder to top the week before, so we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and of that, good night and good night.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:32
Thank you. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai