Unknown Speaker  01:38
Addictive

Unknown Speaker  02:47
Good evening. Bill

Unknown Speaker  02:48
Adam, how are you?

Speaker 1  02:50
I'm doing okay. I'm little sore today. My back was been in the spasm earlier. It's just aches.

Bill Clearfield  02:56
Anyway. How are you good? The looks like the weather's turned here and falls in full session here. So

Speaker 1  03:05
yeah, it's trying to hear it was, we had such a drought that leaves are just coming off completely brown, no changing at all. Then we got like, a week long rain, and everything is flourishing green again and it hasn't changed color. It's like the in new new shoots of things are coming out, flowers that should have come and gone already, you know, in the spring. And it's like a weird reset for some reason. So anyways, it'll change shortly here, once things freeze and

Speaker 2  03:41
Okay, good. And how's Dr Nario, have you jet lagged out yet? Or have you recovered

Speaker 3  03:49
getting there? It's still like before it was 12 hours. Now it's maybe eight hours. So, so I'm I'm getting the clocks right now.

Speaker 2  04:00
Okay, so, yeah, it's the opposite. You remember? Remember that we had that young lady on our hold on Dr fong's Calling, yes, Bruce.

Speaker 4  04:19
What other guys we've been talking to plan the conference appears to be like a mycotoxin expert. Is he here locally? I have no idea. I do need help on a case. There's a woman I'm sitting here in front of me who's attempted suicide more than once, and she's showing me pictures this completely mold infested apartment. She's come back positive with testing for micro mycotoxins, specifically ochratoxin A and I need to help her tie that together, because she wants an attorney to help her kind of get her life back together, right? So hang on a second. You know, we're on our our webinar with

Unknown Speaker  04:59
is he referring to Dr Campbell?

Unknown Speaker  05:03
Well, you're not referring to Dr Campbell, are you

Speaker 4  05:07
what he's mentioned something about a lot of Michael, Michael toxin work, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  05:14
Well, he's the MY GO toxin expert. I've done a lot. I don't know about Dr Nario. You? You done?

Speaker 4  05:22
I guess, my biggest question is, do any of you have a nerve shattering article that ties specifically ocotoxin A to suicide risk? And we have plenty for nephrotoxicity, and this poor woman looks like she has potential. She's had acute renal failure twice for no reason. Sorry.

Speaker 2  05:41
Okay, go to go to my, Michael lab calm, Michael lab, my. Michael lab calm,

Bill Clearfield  05:51
that's Dr. Andrew Campbell, you can get in touch with him. There. I have his email, all right.

Speaker 1  05:58
If she ends up doing a test for them, it comes with a one hour consult with them after the results. Okay, for what it's worth,

Unknown Speaker  06:10
correct? Yeah, or Michael toxin expert, because

Speaker 4  06:20
I've got enough on the side, just looking up a few articles to tie the acute renal failure to this thing. I need something a little stronger than just saying it can cause depression and frontal lobe hypo activation to tie the suicide to this

Unknown Speaker  06:36
okay. All right.

Speaker 4  06:42
I will let you go. You gotta get your thing going. So sorry about that. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  06:48
no worries. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  06:51
we can talk about that.

Bill Clearfield  06:55
So we had a little we had a little mix up with our speakers this week. So Dr Nario and I are going to do a little tandem hand off and when we get started, and we'll get our Tip of the Week first. And I got it right. Right before I came on, I got an interesting article on estrogen that I think that would be good to share as part of our sort of integrative medicine. You know, poke free, so we'll do that. Dr Naria, what are you going to present here tonight?

Speaker 3  07:39
Yeah, I'm going to take second half you right or second or because I'm going to do the tip of the week, and then you go in. Is that how you want

Bill Clearfield  07:48
to do it? Yeah, we'll do that. And so I'm going to do my I'm giving a talk next week in Florida on the effects of vitamin C on hormone optimization. So we're getting as obscure as you can get. That's pretty far down in the weeds. But before that, I'm going to talk about, I'm going to going to bring up this article that I got in an email just a couple of maybe an hour ago that I think is pretty timely and interesting. So we'll go over both of those. Okay, we'll have the person who was supposed to be on tonight, on, I think, in the end of the the end of December, at the end of November. So, but there was a little bit of a mix up between what we're doing and brand name, things like that. So, so we want to, wanted to be clear that we weren't promoting any, any one company, so, or, or brand.

Speaker 3  08:54
Oh, so it's supposed to be CME, but there was a

Bill Clearfield  08:57
we've done, we've done, not done CME. But what, what was sent to me was this company, we're, you're going to understand that this company has the best, whatever health products they have. Okay, sure. That's, I don't think that's, this is the form for that. That's not. We're not. We're not, you know, they're not paying us. And it's a multi level marketing sort of, you know, scheme, and it's my, not my purview, to to be an advertisement for, you know, all of us to go under somebody else's, you know, how those things work? You know, those kind of pyramid schemes, things.

Speaker 3  09:48
So, yeah, well, you know, I just wanted to chime in with that case of Dr Bruce. So I deal with a lot of mold here, and it gets, it gets nasty when you get into the litigation, and I have a lot of them calling for my records. Me talking to attorneys. So you really want to be careful about from the get go under on the intake, you can already tell if they're actually trying to get some litigation out of the case. So that's for sure, something that one of the main questions that everybody needs to ask if you're going to encounter a mold patient. So been through there.

Bill Clearfield  10:21
I'm a mold patient, and I'm going to litigate. What now? What do you do?

Speaker 3  10:26
So it's up to you, if you're going to be, actually, will be willing to be part of that team that will be, I'm sure you're going to be called for court. You're going to be getting the state statements and expertise for yourself, and if you don't want to be part of that. So there are doctors out there who are, can be part of the litigation team. So really, they're, they're made for that, and I think that's where I knew them, in the shoemaker camp. So, but again, it's just a lot of headache and unfortunately, but we always want to help patients. But if you're not in that expertise, I just want to caution everyone

Bill Clearfield  11:00
I have, I have a group of 1010, 10 patients. They all worked in the same government building in her long California, and they all tested, they're all sick, and they all tested positive for mold. So of course, the powers to be, you know, from that building, are saying that I'm an idiot and I don't know anything. And you know, it's my fault,

Speaker 3  11:20
that's so, yeah, that you have to get used to that. It's going to be a blame game. There's, it's going to be a long process. So, I mean, we always want to be advocates for patients, right? But sometimes, when we it's not our expertise, we don't want to mess with it, right?

Unknown Speaker  11:40
So, okay,

Speaker 1  11:44
Dr Clearfield, if I check in and out, meeting off and on, I'm on call, I just, you're gonna, we just didn't want you to

Bill Clearfield  11:52
think you're gonna be on double secret probation if you do that, yeah, you're gonna brew. You're gonna lose, you're gonna lose brownie points in the eyes of Dr Gerber and shell Stein. So, so, okay, so, Dr Naria, why don't you give us the tip of the

Speaker 3  12:13
week? All right? So, hello, everyone. Great to be back from Austria to deliver our Tip of the Week for today. So let's deviate away from our usual programming about science, which includes supplements, hormones and the like. As part of the fellowships curriculum, we tackle religion and health and how it impacts health outcomes in different groups. So usually this is something that shows up in both hospitals and Sunday services now, according to Mark mccosy, so it's one of our faculty members, fundamentals of complementary and alternative medicine book that he wrote, Faith can absolutely heal the soul, but sometimes it can also stall the ambulance. This presentation is not meant to offend any religious groups, but points out objective data for us to learn from. So number one, and a good example for you would be substitution or prayer for a prescription. So we've always heard of stories someone finds a breast lump and says, I'm just praying and it will go away. So that's beautiful spiritually, but not medically. Studies like the land and et al in 1998 found women with stronger beliefs and divine healing were more likely to present with late stage breast cancer, or take, for example, the Jehovah's Witnesses refusing blood transfusions. So admirable conviction, but not great sometimes during a hemorrhage. So another example that was brought up by by our class is negative religious coping. So then there's that God's punishment to me, mindset, if you ever thought maybe this flu is payback for skipping choir, but congratulations, you're using what's called negative religious coping. Koenig et al 1998 found this belief pattern boosting depression and stress while argument et al 2001 discovered it even predicts higher mortality. Apparently, guilt isn't just bad for your conscience. It's rough on your immune system too. Third, and finally, the darker side, cult. You know it's bad when your spiritual leaders health plans includes boarding the spaceship or drink this special kool aid from Heaven's Gate to Solar Temple. Misplaced faith literally becomes fatal, as Dean and Littlewood 2000 put it, failed prophecies don't just hurt reputations, they hurt people. So the takeaway here is faith itself isn't the problem. It's how it's used most of the time. Religion offers comfort, purpose and social support, basically the world's oldest version of group therapy. But when prayer replaces medicine or guilt replaces grace. That's when we need to step in as integrative clinicians. So next time a patient says, I'm putting in God's hands, maybe reply, perfect. Just make sure those hands include your doctors as well. So that's our tip of the week. So just deviating away from our regular scientific explanations.

Bill Clearfield  15:00
So you're God's right hand man. Is that what I'm hearing?

Speaker 3  15:04
I'm not saying I wish I was I don't have that gift. Unfortunately, I should have known that by now. Okay, this was brought up just because of the different beliefs and how it kind of hinders us delivering medical care to our patients, and we just so wanted, like, a good example for that transfusion for the Jehovah's Witnesses. But we just can't, unfortunately, right?

Bill Clearfield  15:28
And as we've learned over time, do this long enough you know us genius doctors really don't know a whole you know a lot of you know a lot of what we think we know. For example. I mean, I always go back to the late 80s and early 90s, when we told everybody not to eat fat, right? What happened that that was, that was one of the biggest disasters ever. Take a look. Take take a take it. Yeah, remember snack wells and the, you know, the you know, our I was in Northeast Pennsylvania, mom put a candy dish at the stairwell, and, you know, Reese's Pieces and M and M's were okay, but you know, somebody came in and told me they ate an avocado. I told them they're going to die, if you'll recall those days, right? And then take a look at a chart from the obesity rates in the United States from 1985 to about 2012 and you'll see, you put, put down the mark, mark where the the no fat diets became, became the the, you know, the Holy Grail, and the and the rate of obesity. And it's about, there's about a one and a half to two year time lag. And then they track each other, you know, perfectly. So

Speaker 3  16:43
I'm sure they get, they made good money out of that ads out there.

Bill Clearfield  16:48
So first thing I want to bring up is the conference, you know, we're getting a lot of, we're actually getting a lot of traction, or a lot of, you know, interest. And we have a really good lineup. And, you know, the price is pretty price points, pretty good. And we have, like an early bird special, it's $100 off of, you know, of all of the categories, if you, you know, or the physician categories, anyway, professional categories, if you, if you book, but by November, by November 4, so one month ahead of time. Also, the hotel is discounted rate too. I actually went to the hotel and made pretend I was going to wanted to check in, and the rate was about the $40 more just to kind of walk in and take a room. So if you're coming from out of town, please register. We're responsible for 30 room, room nights. And we, you know, would rather you guys, you know, help us out with that. And also, you know, there's an online it will be online, and we want, you know, we wanted as big a crowd as possible. Dr Nario, the homeopaths, those are, this is was. Was the impetus for it. So I expect everyone on your list to be registered.

Speaker 3  18:14
They'll be coming. They can't get any other units than this.

Bill Clearfield  18:17
So any other units, here's the schedule. You know, most of the most of the folks are the folks that are, you know, from here, and we usually, you know, we will have a couple of, you know, extras and surprises also. So So tonight, like, if you weren't on earlier, we had a little issue with the speakers tonight, so we're going to reformulate them and bring them on later. So Dr naryo and I are going to do a little tag team match, and we're going to do a little sort of integrative medicine potpourri. And so the first thing I want to bring up that this email I got just maybe two hours before we came on tonight, and it's in sub stack, and it's about the estrogen position. So this is one of the the the late forming controversies that's come about with the, you know, with hormone replacement therapy, and the idea that if with if patients are within 10 years of less than 10 years of menopause, then it's safe to give them estrogen and hormone replacement therapy anything greater than 10 years if they're more than 10 years out, then it's not it's not supposed to be done. And so this article sort of goes through, you know, where that those decisions came from. And what I want you to pay attention to is how those, how these decisions were made. Because one of the articles that cited in here, and I'm going to bring up the two that that use some of the information that we use, but one of the articles that's in here, is, was, again, that, that Women's Health Initiative, which is, you know, I didn't bring that one up because that was just a disaster. And there's no no, I don't think there's any point in even talking about it. Okay, so, so the, so, the question is, you know, we're either writing prescriptions or we're the patients, and we're getting, and again, pay attention, because we're going to the the issue with progesterone is going to come up here also. So maybe it's estrogen patches tucked in your purse, or you're staring at a bottle of hormone pills on your kitchen counter, and should I take these? And is the time right. And so it's you know that the timing is everything you know, according to this article. And this is sort of become the the consensus in the academic world of how this should be done so and as we know, estrogen is isn't just a reproductive hormone, it's a master hormone with receptors throughout the body. And the author goes through major the major organ systems, and then when we get past this, she ignores all of them, so especially the brain, estrogen receptors in the hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and hypothalamus regulate mood, cognition, sleep and thermal regulation. Cardiovascular system, estrogen maintains arterial flexibility and supports healthy cholesterol profiles and moderates inflammation. Bone tissue, estrogen directly inhibits osteoclast activity, bone breakdown and metabolic pathways that influences insulin sensitivity, fat distribution and mitochondrial function. So, you know, post menopausal, the estrogen levels drop dramatically within, you know, a month or two, and patients have, you know, essentially an estrogen withdrawal symptoms. Interestingly, it just as an aside. You know, early on, when we started doing a testosterone replacement therapy, we didn't have a whole lot to go on, and as far as guidelines, and so we've just kind of followed the gym rats, and if you'll recall 25 years ago, and I'm sure they, some of them do it today, they would get their testosterone levels to 1500 2000 even 2500 and then take aromatase inhibitors to get their estrogen levels to zero. So we had one disaster, and then we had another disaster. So estrogen levels are testosterone levels at 2500 are not healthy. I mean that those are not physiologic. And estrogen levels. Men need estrogen, not a whole lot, but they need some. Estrogen drives blood flow to the brain. Estrogen deals with memory and and bone strength and heart disease. It was felt that high estrogen levels in men caused heart disease, but that turns out that low estrogen levels in men turn them into menopausal women, and they have they have heart disease. They end up with heart heart disease, osteoporosis, and males with osteoporosis in the first year of life after a first year after a fracture from osteoporosis, have a 37% mortality rate, and the and and dementia, you know, the cognitive function. So in this article, the author cites two trials. The keeps trial in 2012 and the elite trial in 2016 and I'm going to show you both of those shortly here. And this is post menopausal women within three years of menopause. They were randomized to receive estrogen therapy or placebo, and the results showed significant improvements in mood, cognition and cardiovascular markers, but only when started early, so only within six, three to six years of menopause and the cut off was at 10, okay, And but the keeps trial actually didn't say that. Here it is, and here's the keeps trial. And after four the conclusions were it supported the value of the use of hormone therapy and recently post menopausal women to provide a perspective for future research. That's all it said. And all they looked at was cardiovascular health. They didn't look at anything else. So they didn't look at the bones. They actually didn't look at the brain and there. And what they used, again, conjugated equine estrogen, not what we use. So this is, this is one study here, you know, which is, you know, not again, that's at least, that's not what I prescribe, and there was no severe adverse effects, including venous thrombosis. Ancillary studies showed a positive effect on mood. Well, didn't she just say that? It was not not on mood with equine estrogen, reduced hot flashes, improved sleep, maintaining a bone mineral density and sexual function was increased with transdermal estradiol. So there were so the other treatment was transdermal estradiol. There was no significant effects of either treatment on cognition, breast pain or skin wrinkling. So what does she say? Here? She says here, there was significant improvement in cardiovascular, but only when started early, but it doesn't say that here. So these are the these are the myths that keep going. And Carol, I know you're on here. I know you're quite well known about that. And and again, this study here to keep study, look to see who paid for it. Everybody will make Novo Nordisk AstraZeneca, Janssen, Merck, I mean, all you know, they all make synthetic estrogens. You know, here, someone's on the board of Pfizer. So, you know, I don't know about you, but I kind of take this as a grain. These were the grain of salt the elite trial compared early versus late initiation of estrogen therapy. Early inestimation, within six years, showed cardiovascular protection and slowed arterial thickening. Late initiation showed neutral or slightly increased cardiovascular risk. And so the conclusion is that there's a 10 year window of post menopause, particularly for women under 60. Okay, so what are you supposed to do with women over 60? Who have, you know, you know, low estrogen. I mean, what? Again, they don't tell us what to do with with them here. So the conclusion is, less than 60 in less than 10 years, are a strong candidate for initiation of therapy. Bone density concerns moderate to severe symptoms affecting quality of life outweigh risk. Bone density concerns of family of osteoporosis and no contra indications you're on third estrogen therapy, doing well with good symptom control and continued annual reassessment over 60 and on therapy for several years. Discuss it Okay, so and experiencing side effects. So usually the side effects would be too much estrogen versus progesterone. In this, I in this, I skipped over it. She also, at the author advocates for if you're on estrogen therapy and had a hysterectomy, that we use, we do not use progesterone. And those of you who've heard me, you know, know that that's, you know totally wrong, and explore alternatives.

Bill Clearfield  28:07
There's some genetic issues, the timing and progesterone. Never consider estrogen and isolation as endometrial protection. If you have a uterus there, there's there's the key there, sleep optimization, anxiety and balanced hormone signaling. And so the first three months of significant track, validated scales, blood pressure monitoring and subjective quality of life, six to 12 months of hormone optimization, a mammogram and pelvic exam, bone density every two years. And then advanced is carotid integral thickening, advanced lipid profiles, inflammatory markers and cognitive assessment tools. So these were the trials I showed you. I showed you the two. I'm not even going to show you that one, because that's pretty worthless. But you know, again, the Smith, if you're over 60 years old, we're supposed to tell these women, you know, to go away. We're not supposed to do anything with them. I mean, that's what I get from this. And you know, nobody ever questions these people. You know, these folks about well, you know, you have all of these other issues here, bone issues, metabolic issues, there was slightly worse, cardiovascular system issues, but brain issues, and you're going to turn down these patients, you know, because you know these Studies, which use, which you know, which use the therapies that we don't use, tell us that it doesn't work. So anybody have any comments on this? Any questions? Carol, I know this is a big, a big you know issue within your practice. If you're here, I thought you were,

Speaker 5  30:01
yes, I'm here, yeah, and, you know, just number one, nothing, but estrogen really, really helps vaginal dryness, like it should. Well, it actually estrail, but I consider that a red flag for this woman needs estrogen. You don't have enough estrogen your body to maintain a healthy vaginal tissue. You don't have enough estrogen.

Bill Clearfield  30:26
Period correct. Okay, so, how do you handle it? You know, patients over 60 that are not on hormone therapy that come in with all of these you know, you know, low estrogen, low progesterone, symptoms. I mean, do you tell turn them away. You tell them no, sorry. Never, go away.

Speaker 5  30:44
Never. And I work. I worked once with a one of those daytime drama stories you know that go every day. So opera. And she was, she called when I was at women's and she couldn't remember her lines anymore, and she was the evil older lady, and just got her on estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and she worked probably another 10 years, memorizing her lines just fine.

Bill Clearfield  31:16
Well, I can, I can attest to that. I've been taking an acting class on Thursday night, and I can't for any of my lights.

Speaker 3  31:23
So Dr Bill, yeah, there's a there's a 2024, study, and this was actually a study relation to Medicare cohort study, and it's menopausal hormone therapy beyond age 65 so the population in the study is a 10 million US women age 65 and above. So the key findings of this study actually low dose transdermal or vaginal estrogen reduced risk of endometrial cancer, ovarian cancer, ischemic heart disease, heart failure, even BTEs. And the study also actually use estrogen plus progestins, showed similar reduction in some areas, and there's no broad increase of breast cancer or dementia risk. So benefits outweigh, I guess, the risks for many, especially for the non oral route. So this is a newer study that actually can show you that now evidence is starting to trickle in for our women who were deprived before when they go over that time window hypothesis. And again, this is just a new study. Hopefully we get some more. But I think wherever we guys are at right now, we're doing the right thing, because they're seeing the same thing as well.

Bill Clearfield  32:33
Yeah, you know, and, and so I've been doing, you know, studying, you know, hormones, for quite a long time. And, you know, the, the the issue with all of the, oh my god, you know you're going to, you're going to die, you're going to get blood clots. You know, going to get prostate cancer from testosterone. You're going to get blood clots from testosterone. You're going to get, you know, cancer from, from from from progesterone. You're going to get cancer from estrogen. There's, you know, for whatever reason, when it comes to hormones, there seems to be this knee jerk reaction that, that you know the you know that it's, it's not necessary, not needed. And if you're going to use it one, you're going to die, and or and to, if you don't die, you're going to be in dire straits. And you know, 95% of you know what, what we go through, especially with patients, are when they come to me and say, My doctor said you're killing me, right? That's what I that's what I get, right. And, and, God forbid, you know, we somebody goes to a gynecologist, they've had a sad a hysterectomy, and we have them on progesterone. You would have thought that, you know, we committed, you know, you know, it was a mass murder or

Speaker 3  33:54
something there for the PubMed study. So everybody can see, I

Speaker 6  33:57
would like to ask a question, why we don't have to give progesterone. It is a hysterectomy.

Unknown Speaker  34:04
You have to

Speaker 2  34:07
why you do not, or why you do, why we don't have

Speaker 5  34:14
because, because it's very profitable. If you withhold us, if you just give estrogen, you withhold progesterone, then you need a benzo, you need a sleeping drug, you need something for hypertension. And so there's a lot of money made on these poor women post hysterectomy by withholding the progesterone there. There's

Speaker 7  34:39
a piece of this picture that everybody is forgetting, because when they're talking about hormones, they're talking about sex hormones, and what they're forgetting that they're neuro steroids. They're as important, or if not more important, for the brain as they are, in terms of balancing the endocrine system also, and that is one section, Dr Mohan, Dr Ali always said the worst thing that ever happened was calling these hormones sex hormones, because now everybody giggles and does not acknowledge their importance. And I've treated women 68 years old, 70 years old, started them on hormones, and they felt like themselves again. They began to sleep again. They didn't have the anxiety and the depression, they had more energy, they had more focus. They come back and tell me, this is me. I this is me again, and with consistency, it wasn't something that I could give you individual examples, but as in my practice, that was a consistent reaction.

Speaker 8  36:03
We always used to hear you gave me my life back exactly,

Speaker 6  36:06
yeah. So if somebody has hysterectomy, then we, we, we still give progesterone, unknown, yes.

Bill Clearfield  36:16
So here's okay, because this is what I want to go into this rather than vitamin C. Dr Nario, here's my that I can do this in about two minutes. Are you interested in that? You want to know progesterone after hysterectomy?

Speaker 2  36:36
Go ahead. Yeah, okay, all right. Just just happen to have a little slideshow on that.

Bill Clearfield  36:42
Okay, it was a CME. Okay, so I don't know if you want to go into all of it. Progesterone is produced in the ovaries, placenta and when pregnant and in the adrenal glands in the corpus luteum, in non pregnancy, the serum peaks at 20 nanograms.

Speaker 3  37:03
We're not seeing anything. Are you showing a slide? You're not seeing it?

Unknown Speaker  37:07
No, there's no slide yet.

Bill Clearfield  37:11
How about now? No, there it is. You got it. Okay, all right, the progesterone thickens the uterine lining to make a bed for fertilize egg. It peats on day 21 it falls to near zero after fertilization, and it repeats, and without fertilization, peaks in the next cycle. Okay, so that's real quick. And here's the here's a graph of the cycle. And as you can see here, we get a bump in the progesterone here in days 19 through 21 and you get a little bit of a bump in estradiol, also, in the in the in the follicular phase also. So we, when we do serum levels, we'll get it right here days 19 through 21 it's dominant in the second half of the cycle. I liken it to so estrogen. Those of you who are old enough to remember the honeymooners Ralph was. Ralph was the bus driver. He was always getting into trouble. He was always having get rich quick schemes and his long suffering wife, Alice, at the end of the show, would bail him out. Always bail him out. Estrogen causes havoc. Estrogen dominance is with headaches, breast and uterine and ovarian cyst, moodiness, gallstones, abdominal cramps and the symptoms of pre menstrual syndrome. Progesterone is the cleanup crew, so estrogen is Ralph and progesterone is Alice. Okay, so if those of you know know that, and I don't have a TV anymore, so I don't know, I can't give you any modern day examples, but you know, Ralph's running around like a crazy person, and Alice calms him down. Progesterone balances estrogen and improves sleep, has a natural calming effect, lowers blood pressure, helps eliminate the body eliminate fats, increases scalp hair, balances fluids. It's a natural diuretic, natural antidepressant, and is an anti inflammatory. Progesterone is not the same as progestins. Progestins are synthetics. Here are the progestins. You don't have to be a biochemist to see that this is not this natural progesterone maintains pregnancy, improves sleep mood, acts as a diuretic, has no direct effect on insulin resistance, improves the lipid profile, has no evidence of increased cardiovascular disease, prevents breast cancer reduces estrogen stimulation of breast tissue. The synthetic progestins do the opposite. And indeed we use we'll use it. We have a patient with, you know, estrogen dominant with breast tenderness, particularly at either mid cycle or during their menstrual cycle, fibrocystic breast disease, breast cyst, we'll use progesterone cream right on the breast tissue, and usually in about six to eight weeks, we'll see a softening, and we've even been able to to reverse, you know, the effects of the extra excess estrogen. These are side effects from progestins that we see without project that are you don't see with progesterone, weight gain, fluid retention, depression, headaches, bloating, acne, hair loss, nausea, insomnia and does not help balance estrogen. This was a study, a long term study, 33 years, 722 patients low progesterone is particularly in the luteal phase with infertility, 10 times increased deaths from cancer, all cancers with these patients with low progesterone and 5.4 times increased premenstrual breast cancer with patients with low progesterone. So is it, is it high estrogen, or is it low progesterone, or is it a balance of the same? This was a study that came out five years after the the whi study, which pretty much debunked what came out of the whi study. So what this shows is patients with that are no hormone therapy have about a 10 per 100,000 Year women year incidence of breast cancer. Those that are on synthetic estrogen have a a 20% increase in breast cancer with on synthetic estrogen alone. Those that are on synthetic estrogen and synthetic progesterone, or progestins, have a 40% increase in breast cancer and those that are on natural estrogen natural progesterone, have a 10% decrease in breast cancers from those who have no note, who don't take note hormones at all, a 50% decrease in those that are taking synthetic estrogen and progestin, and a 30% decrease in those who are taking just synthetic estrogen, so estradiol plus progesterone shows actually a decrease in breast cancers versus those who take no hormones at all. Our rule of thumb is we never, ever, ever use estrogen without progesterone, and we make our patients pinky swear so symptoms of progesterone deficiency, premenstrual syndrome, depression, anxiety, breast swelling, breast bloating and retention. And you'll if you, if you read between the lines, these are all symptoms of excess estrogen, bone loss, osteoporosis, uterine fibroids, excessive menstrual bleeding, decreased HDL, cholesterol, insomnia, and causes menopause, excess stress, sugar and high sugar, high fat, hypothyroid, zinc and increased prolactin production. There are the references for that. So perimenopausal is the progesterone, and is the first hormone to devolve. So your patients that are in their mid 30s, late 30s, that are come in and they tell you they feel terrible and they can't sleep, and they hate their husband and they're kicking the kids and they hate the dog. These are symptoms of low progesterone. It's actually spelled out in the I Ching here. Her peak condition declines gradually, and the Yang Ming shows with a depleted fake is depleted. Her face withers and her hair begins to fall out at the age of 35 and remember lifespan? You know life cycle. When this was written was about age 50. Symptoms, again, agitation, irritability, headaches, short tempered, insomnia, emotional lability, poor libido, weight gain, nervousness. These are the conventional wisdom. Symptoms are due to anxiety and depression and a midlife crisis. This was actually came from a podcast that I listened to from the University of Miami, and this was their conclusion. This was what their treatment regimen was, two, one SSRI, then one, two SSRIs, plus one SNRI. So that would be something like the lock seen, forget what that one is, plus cognitive behavioral therapy if there's no relief. And by the way, when you take give them two SSRIs and then one SNRI, you don't take away the other two. You give them all three psychiatric referral evaluation for comorbidities if no relief from this, add a tricyclic antidepressant, plus an atypical antidepressant, if there's no relief from that, and if none of that works, we're going to give them pregabalin and Gabapentin. By that time, you know, they're a total basket case, and they're probably taking 12 other drugs to try to counteract the side effects from the ones that you've given them. This was from the University of Miami, like I said in a podcast, so physiologic changes in perimenopausal you get fluctuating estradiol levels. And you actually can have estradiol levels that are 26% higher. And some of the patients describe it as being as they feel pregnant, ovulation and progesterone levels become sort of insignificant, and remember that none of us, particularly women, were created with a fluoxetine deficiency. So so a natural progesterone physiological base, improves sleep, treats vasomotor symptoms, does not create a breast proliferation, increases bone formation and has beneficial cardiovascular and cerebral effects in the post menopausal area. Progesterone prevents the proliferative effects of estrogen on endometrial cells. It leads to cancer and increased bone density. So okay, and conventional wisdom is post hysterectomy patients without a uterus have no need for progesterone protection. This is a drug that has estrogen and progesterone in it naturally. That's why it was developed. And it says, do not use it. If you have a uterus removed, it contains a progesterone Gen, which it doesn't it's progesterone actually, to decrease the chance of getting cancer in the uterus. If you do not have a uterus, you do not need a progesterone, and you should not use it. And the FDA make made them put that on there. The Cleveland Clinic, if you no longer have a uterus, you won't typically need progesterone. This is an important point, because estrogen taken alone has fewer long term effect side effects than hormone therapy with a combination of estrogen and progesterone. Now remember, what they're talking about is that whi study, which is synthetic estrogen and synthetic progesterone, not what we use. Mayo Clinic says if you had your uterus removed, you may not need to take a progestin.

Bill Clearfield  47:15
Health tap is a an app that I've been on and off on you patients call in and ask questions, and sometimes you can get paid for it. And this was there was a question here, What are the pros and cons of taking progesterone after a total hysterectomy? Dr David S, who was an endocrinologist for 41 years, said there are no pros. Flat out. There's no advantage to taking progesterone after a total hysterectomy. Progesterone secretion induces the onset of the period, which is of no significance after a hysterectomy. So there you go. Any comment on that one? Carol, so

Speaker 5  47:54
outside, that's, that's just crazy. I was, I was just thinking about those women that are placed on estrogen alone, and some of this comes from repeat. You get higher prolactin levels, and then, in turn, you can get higher parathyroid levels, which leeches calcium from your bones, and that therapy will give you osteoporosis.

Bill Clearfield  48:17
Exactly, okay, so a natural and synthetic forms of natural progesterone outside of the reproductive tract have receptors in the in the androgen, glucocorticorticoid and mineral corticoid receptors and other mucosal sites, particularly the kidney, cardiovascular system, respiratory system, GI tract, bone and the brain in the kidney, natural progesterone will increase diuresis. It activates the renal angiotensin system and blocks aldosterone. It triggers catabolic metabolism, relaxes smooth muscle, increases calcium and phosphorus excretion, raises basal body temperature is this has is sedative and has an analgesic effect, improves visual memory, improves proliferation and differentiation of osteoblast. It has immuno suppressive effects in chronic diseases like multiple sclerosis. The administration of 17 beta estradiol and progesterone protects the brain from demyelination and stimulates remyelination in the thyroid. Progesterone causes increased thyroid levels. Estrogen will increase thyroid TBG, which lowers thyroid production in the immune system. Progesterone decreases NF, Kappa Beta in the bone. Progesterone stimulates osteoblast activity, cancer risks, estrogen therapy and estrogen, progesterone, testosterone therapy, containing natural estrogen did not increase breast cancer risk. Breast cancer risk was increased in users with tip alone, which is a synthetic testosterone or anything. Can anyone containing any type of synthetic progestin. Apparently, the use of estrogen progesterone therapy containing a synthetic progestin for four more years is associated with increased breast cancer risk, more than double the risk. So I think you're getting the point estradiol is carcinogenic in breast cell cultures, breast tissue becomes quiescent when progesterone is added, estradiol upper delays cancer promoting gene bl, BCL, two and progesterone down regulates it. Now remember, progesterone, not progestins, not the synthetics, not your birth control pills, somebody mentioned earlier, progesterone is a neuro steroid. Neuro steroids are hormones that are maxed manufactured regionally separately in the brain from that of the periphery or in the ovaries and and the adrenal glands. Natural progesterone is manufactured in the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in this in the CNS. Oligodendrocytes also produce pregnenolone, progesterone and androstine diode, also testosterone, estradiol. These are your neuro steroids. They follow the same steroid agentic pathway as peripherally generated neural active steroids. They regulate the excitatory, inhibitory balance of neurotransmitters, glutamate and GABA. They act as micro hormones, fine tuning the peripheral macro hormones, sufficient GABA levels are achieved and relieve anxiety, reduce stress and improve sleep and are neuroprotective. When progesterone is present, it stabilizes mood disorders and it maintains, like I said, adequate GABA levels. Neuro steroids account for the high degree of pathology associated with traumatic brain injury. So this is the steroid genic pathway, the traditional pathway, as you know, cholesterol will convert in to pregnenolone. It will and we usually look at this side of the pathway where it goes to testosterone and aromatizes into estrogen, estradiol and es trio, it also will convert into cortisol or stress hormone. But there's a secondary pathway that we don't talk about much, and it goes from pregnenolone to progesterone to five alpha dihydro progesterone, similarly to dihydro progesterone here, and it's the same enzymes that goes to allopregnine alone. Allopregnine is the what stimulates the production of GABA, or the calming neurotransmitter. So if we disrupt all of this, this is where we get your agitation, irritability, sleeplessness, with lack of progesterone. And remember, so this is just a schematic of the same thing. So low progesterone results in low allopregnine alone, which results in a deficiency in your GABA, your calming neurotransmitter, and decreased progesterone symptoms, as you can see, and decreased GABA symptoms are match each other perfectly. This is just a schematic of that. These are the references progesterone administered and traumatic brain injury. It inhibits inflammatory agents that accompany a traumatic brain injury. Natural progesterone after traumatic brain injury reduces edema, necrosis, apoptosis and blood brain barrier compromise and inflammatory mediators. There was a phase two study of IV progesterone administered 24 hours within 24 hours. For 24 hours after traumatic brain injury, there was a 50% reduction in progesterone treated patients 30 days later. Post Traumatic Brain Injury versus placebo, the dose was eight milligrams per kilogram. For some reason they took in the phase three trials, they decreased the dose to four milligrams per kilogram, and it didn't work. Sort of like when, you know, we were using ivermectin at 15 milligrams for five days, and the powers that be tested ivermectin at five milligrams for three days, and then said it didn't work also, so memory, cognition and progesterone sufficiency in the post menopausal years and naturally cycling for reproductive years, there's no consistent relationship between progesterone levels and cognition and no association between serum or salivary concentrations and cognitive performance. But within six years of menopause and here's here's your timing, progesterone levels are positively associated with verbal memory and global cognition, so there is something a little bit to it. But if you look at the whole picture in Alzheimer's disease, dementias, progesterone has neuroprotective effects in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and a neuroprotective effect is due to positive effects on glucose metabolism, systemic effects of progesterone, excluding outside of the the endometrium, thromboembolic risk with hormones therapy, with no hormone therapy, the risk would be a relative of one with oral estrogens. Again, remember the that study that I showed you, the keep study used, that's what they used, oral estrogens. It's 1.6 risk transdermal estrogens, just slightly higher than than if we use nothing at all, micronized progesterone, so natural progesterone, less than if we use nothing. And then the these are the synthetics and all higher these are, I'm not going to go through these. These are all the cytokines that are affected by natural progesterone. These are the lab levels. Anybody wants the them. I can send them to you, the estrogen progesterone ratio. This is how I kind of determined where we are when the patient's estrogen progesterone ratios are less than 250 they are they are actually in good shape, and the side effects or symptoms are low. As that ratio gets higher with estrogen dominance, it the symptoms get worse and worse. We take we've used estrone plus estradiol divided by progesterone. We draw the levels in serum levels on days 19 through 21 if the patients are cycling, we'll do it at any time. If the patients are not, there's an older way to do it without esterone, and that's this is we take progesterone times 1000 to get the units correct, divided by the estradiol. If it's less than 100 that's an estrogen dominant look. If it's greater than 500 it's progesterone dominant look. Quite frankly, we only see progesterone dominance if we overdose patients in progesterone. Here are the doses that we use for different entities, other indications for and it's kind of a bold statement at top, but I think we're pretty we're pretty safe. It's indicated in every woman that's in menopause, you know, except for, you know, those that are having cancers and those, those other exceptions we had, but irregular menstrual periods, no menstrual periods, heavy menstrual cycles, fibrocystic breast disease, endometriosis. So patients that are having irregular cycles, what we'll do is we'll give them progesterone, natural progesterone of 100 to 200 milligrams at bedtime for 10 nights, and then withdraw it if the gods are with us within five to 10 days that she'll start a new cycle. If that does not help work, then we'll start at day 28 again and do another 10 days if we still don't get a cycle after that, then we just got to look a little bit deeper and we'll get an ultrasound for there. So summary, progesterone deficiency, agitated, irritable, can't sleep, poor libido, headaches, short tempered.

Bill Clearfield  57:56
And signs and symptoms of estrogen, excess, bone loss, osteoporosis, uterine fibroids, ovarian fibroids, breast cyst, breast cancer, decreased good cholesterol, excess progesterone. Again, it's usually, if we're, you know, it's, it's, that's iatrogenic. Mostly, you're going to see the patients are going to feel drunk or hungover, overly sedated, increased fat storage, increased appetite and carb cravings, worsening hot flashes. There's a little quiz in here, if you want to follow that along. This is what I showed you when they asked about you know, why use this is the summary of everything. So the reason not to use it, the patient's not going to be able to get pregnant. So there's no use in giving them progesterone. But all of these, the all these things that I just mentioned in the last 15 to 20 minutes are all the reasons to use progesterone. In summary, increased diuresis triggers catabolism, relaxes smooth muscle, raises basal body temperature. It's sedative and analgesic and improves visual memory. It improves proliferation and differentiation of osteoblast. It improves it's immunosuppressive. It attenuates interleukins, 1b, TNF alpha and NF, Kappa Beta. It reduces neuronal loss in traumatic brain injury. It regulates the GABA glutamate balance. It improves thyroid function. It reduces breast cancer risk, memory loss, slow thought processes, mood changes, impulse aggression, stress, anxiety, depression, suicide, ideation, thrombotic thromboembolic risk, and improves its neuro protective against dementia and Alzheimer's disease, positive association with memory and cognition, and has some glaucoma protection also, and so that, my friends, is the reason to use progesterone after hysterectomy. Any questions,

Speaker 5  59:51
can I can I have a comment? Yes, please, please do when you get the drunken brain foggy dizziness from progesterone, it's associated with increased allopregent alone. So finally occurred to me to look up how allopregent alone is detoxified and it needs sulfation and glucuronidation. So I'm submitting to you. I did a blog on this that if that is occurring, and it could be a block to enough progesterone for therapy that look at those two detox systems.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:29
Okay, great. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:33
Anybody else? Any comments, questions? How'd I do that?

Speaker 3  1:00:37
Yes, there's a question from Petronella, progesterone, is it given as pills or vaginal general suppositories? What was that progesterone is given as pills or vaginal suppositories?

Bill Clearfield  1:00:52
The answer is yes. So the pills are the most, are the most potent, potent form, and as long as you're using the natural and there are commercial natural pills, at least in the US, they come 102 100 milligram, you know, fixed doses. Otherwise, we have them, have them compounded. You can use vaginal progesterone. I don't use that very often. I usually use, you know, either estradiol or testosterone and yeah, so usually, or in a cream form, the creams are less potent than the than the pill form, but it will use that for locally, for, you know, breast tenderness, or any, any type of, even ovarian cysts. Pain with ovarian cysts will rub the cream right over, right over the, you know, the affected area.

Speaker 3  1:01:42
I mean, I've used the vaginal suppositories, but you really need to give high doses to give a systemic effect for that, right? So it's really not just

Speaker 6  1:01:52
Okay, okay, one time, a doctor came at the Academy of stem cell physician, and she was saying that progesterone to be given general suppositories. Because if we give oral it goes through the live to deliver, and there are some metabolites that causes sedation. So this is what I remember.

Speaker 3  1:02:19
That's actually what you want to do with oral progesterone, that's when allopregional is formed. You're not going to get that metabolite when you're actually doing transdermal progesterone. So the purpose of doing oral progesterone is really to get it through that liver, to get it metabolized. And thus now you have GABA stimulation.

Speaker 7  1:02:37
So when you're taking capsules, you take them at night, before bed. Yes, always. And then when you're using it as progesterone or direct progesterone, you do it topically during the day. Don't take a high dose capsule in the morning,

Bill Clearfield  1:02:55
yeah, you'll be sleepy all day. Mm, hmm. So how do you know when, when to use go from 100 to 200 Well, if the patients are having sort of breakthrough symptoms, so again, symptoms of estrogen excess or patient will call and say, you know that they're having vaginal bleeding. You know post menopausal will go to 200 they're having breast tenderness, breast soreness, or fiber, cystic, sip. Symptoms, ovarian cysts, uterine fibroids, endometriosis, you know, those kinds of symptoms will go on with a higher dose, and we will use it, you know, for for sedate, for sedation too. You know, you know somebody who's agitated, irritable and, you know, panic attacks and whatnot. Progesterone is, is a fabulous, you know, calming agent, and it's natural to use the natural progesterone. Again, God didn't make a ambient deficiency, right? Yes, or a Gabapentin deficiency, either, I think, or, yeah, you know, you saw that list of things that they use at the University of Miami, so I didn't mean to hide the whole stage here. Dr Dario, you got, what do you got for

Speaker 3  1:04:15
us? You're fine. You want, you want me to give them a preview? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:19
the preview. Okay, sure.

Speaker 3  1:04:21
Okay, well, it's also hormones. So since we're talking about hormones, we'll give something of a little bit of an entertainment in that. Are you going to be? Should I do you're going to do screen share? Or is it me? No, go ahead. Okay, let me

Unknown Speaker  1:04:37
get my I

Speaker 3  1:04:43
do this. There you see it? Yep. Okay, so, yeah, this is a I'm going to present this in a forum, actually. So let's kind of give you guys a taste of this. So again, good evening, esteemed colleagues in integrative medicine. Today we're diving into the world of hormone testing, but with the twist, imagine if hormone tests were on a dating app, so you'd have profiles full of charms, trends and red flags, and those wipe right if moments and then why this approach? Because, in our field, choosing the right test is like finding the perfect match. It has to align with your patient's symptoms, lifestyle and goals without the heartbreak of inaccurate results. But we'll swipe through the three contenders or bachelors via the hormone test match.com app. So blood serum, we call it the reliable classic saliva, the free spirited adventurer, and 24 hour urine, the deep diving storyteller, so by the end, you'll have practical tools to integrative this into your practice. So let's keep it professional, evidence based, and, yes, a bit humorous, because who doesn't need a laugh amid cortisol spice and estrogen pathways? So first guy up who's been around the block, but this is our guy. So meet bud serum, the old school type of guy. So age, of course, classic status. He's the most popular. His buyer reads, Hey there. I'm the traditional, reliable type. I've been around the longest, and doctors love me. I show you everything, both bound and unbound hormones. So think of me as the a person who shows up with the whole party. So what am I great at? Well, I'm great at, of course, humor aside, look at his profile here. Serum testing is the gold standard for a reason. It's the most research and standardized method backed by decades of clinical data, like that guy with a stable job in a 401 K, it measures total hormones, free plus bound to protein like SHBG, making it real or ideal for baseline assessments. For integrative dogs like us, it's perfect for monitoring bioidentical HRT. So he's like stuck in his 6x and picky, only recognizing bio identical hormones and not synthetic due to its similarity to the natural hormone structure, and especially injectables or pellets. Though it's a tad Fe with transdermal creams due to the variable absorption. And you would notice here comprehensive thyroid panels, TSH, VT, four, t3 insulin resistance markers, which retired hormones like FH, FSH, LH and prolactin, plus understand a Dione, IGF and SHBG and the cherub on top, insurance usually covers it, because who doesn't love a date that picks up the tab, red flags, but every profile does have one, and serum can't monitor non bioidentical BHRT Well, Mrs. Topical cream dynamics and ignores metabolism of the urinal rhythms like cortisol is warning search can't handle the urinal patterns, so no sunrise, sunset romance for this guy. So plus the venipuncture, it can spike cortisol levels, mid draw, turning your calm patient into a stress. Case studies from The Endocrine Society highlight this pre analytical variability. So again, swipe right if you're doing a full hormone baseline, fired workup, detecting ovarian decline, or checking insulin resistance, or if your patient's insurance is paying and they appreciate stability, much like a doctor approved match. So clinically, in my practice, I use the serum for initial evaluations and perimenopausal women paired with symptoms for a holistic view on to our basically next bachelor. If you don't like this one. So now for someone a little bit more liberated. So this is our free spirited saliva. So the free spirit age, modern status. I'm always free and available. So the bio here, Hey there. I'm saliva, no needles, no drama. I'm all about what's active and available. Let's keep it real, unbound and lipo filling. What's great about me so there's a there's one points for patients who hate blood draws. They can go for this for sure, and think at home kits that you can actually do, painless and convenient. So collect me at home, then easy peasy, no needles and saliva measures with bio available hormones only. So he's all about the free, active life, no bound baggage, so the free fraction that tissues actually use, correlating beautifully with the symptoms. Studies show, correlates with symptoms better than serum sometimes. So I'm more empathetic. So he's basically more in the in the feeling side. So it's stellar for multiple samplings. Also like tracking the urinal cortisol patterns or menstrual cycles, perfect for tracking your hormone roller coaster over the day. Like cortisol is the urinal drama, and also it reflects transdermal BioIdentical Hormone Replacement Therapy creams accurately. And research from the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism shows strong symptom correlation, and it's also easy collection for cortisol awakening response or the car or late night screenings for Cushing's. So I'm I'm great for late night activities, nothing naughty, though, but I'm just good at checking cortisol checks for Cushing's and melatonin levels, and also no benefunction stress, perfect for our stress sensitive patients in integrative care, my red flags would be unlike anyone who doesn't care for their oral health. So now, so it's not ideal for androgens if there's gingivitis, meaning testosterone, and also DHEA, which could actually show us falsely elevated if you have in plane gums, so no solid reference ranges for cycling woman and transdermal progesterone, which is a disadvantage, and it also skips formal metabolism entirely. So don't ask me about metabolism. I'm surface level or just superficial overall, and also lingering cream residues can skew results, and it's not for long term HRT monitoring, it might show too much from topicals, and if you're on creams and change doses, I might still be hung up on the X levels, thus altering your results. So swipe right if you're tracking rhythms, evaluating ovulation monitoring, transdermal HRT or dealing with needle phones. It's like that adventurous partner who keeps things exciting but avoids commitment. In practice, I recommend saliva for adrenal fatigue, workups or PCOS, cycle tracking and combined with lifestyle interventions for that integrative edge. And that's usually kind of like, I like saliva. I use that a lot. But of course, there are other ones that you need to see also. So on to our last bachelor. So finally, the one who sells all the beans on a date, but detailed storytellers, we call him so last, but not the least 24 hour urine, the detailed storyteller, age, sophisticated status, the deep dive. So bio, I'm the analytical one who tells you the whole story, not just what hormones you have, but how your body is processing them. I measure, metabolize and show enzyme activity. Think of me as the person who doesn't just tell you what what they had for dinner, but describes every course beyond and even the molecular gastronomy.

Speaker 3  1:12:28
What am I great at? This method provides a comprehensive metabolic overview, estrogen pathways for cancer risk assessment, anabolic, catabolic, balance and stereogenic enzyme activity. It's also excellent for monitoring oral HRT due to the first pass liver effect, meaning oral HRT, I can handle that because the first pass, of course, that's definitely what we can see on the I think it's the branching of that result in a specific test that we always use, and also integrative 24 hour urine output via GCMs makes a full steroid spectrum. So bonus here, it evaluates growth hormone output reliably for those dreading the jug dried urine strips like which is my little brother, offers a less burdensome alternative. So it also reveals detoxification capacity and enzyme issues crucial for personalized integrative plans like optimizing estrogen detox in breast cancer prevention, my red flags would be, I'm inaccurate when kid the issues or when there's hematuria ongoing. It also averages out diurnal patterns, no peaks or valleys, just a summary, and also less precise for circulating precursors. So it's all about the metabolites, and that 24 hour collection, it's a commitment patients might bail halfway. So collection, imagine that hauling a jug around. So talk about the baggage that I carry. So poor, meaning also, it's also poor for using as a baseline levels and also for androgen monitoring. So wipe right if you're assessing estrogen metabolism, cancer risk, or oral HRT, anabolic, catabolic balance or enzyme activity, or for 24 hour growth hormone evaluation, if you crave complexity and metabolic insights, this is your soulmate. So just prep for a long, chatty date. So clinically, I use urine for patients with hormone related cancers or detox concerns, integrative with nutrigenomics for tailored protocols. So dating reality check. So as you can see here, sometimes really blood serum is your steady baseline buddy, reliable, insured, but misses the nuances. Saliva is the chill bio available option for patterns and convenience. Does no needles. Urine dives deep into metabolism for those intricate cases. But in integrative medicine, really the perfect match depends on the patient's symptoms, compliance and goals for holistic care. So remember, no test is invaluable correlate with history and follow ups. So some some couples thrive. In contrast, sometimes you need to pull the Amherst lab strategy so you mix and match the Dream Team combo is what I suggest in terms of approach. So serum for baseline hormones, saliva for active cortisol and initial monitoring and urine for estrogen metabolism. So together, it gives you the full threed picture, like looking at your partner's LinkedIn, Instagram and therapy notes all at once. So thanks for swiping. So that's our hormone presentation in terms of testing.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:47
Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  1:15:49
let's see if there's anybody.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:54
So

Bill Clearfield  1:15:56
Dr Porter, I began HRT vaginal DHEA suppositories for the past six weeks. What a revelation. And youthful results. Yeah, so DHEA, you know, converts into into testosterone, and testosterone will increase lubrication and thick and vaginal tissue. So, so good analogies there, dr, dr, Nario, this is, this is an A for m, so I we don't have to go pay for this.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:27
It's, it's a freebie for everyone.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:29
Okay, okay, so you know there's some clinics that they'll only do saliva. They'll tell you that the serum is no good for anything, and some will only do the urine tests. And you know, the the the one, the one advantage for the serum, I think, is that you you know, the insurances will pay for, you know, some of it, or most of it. How about saliva and urine? Do they pay for any of those?

Speaker 3  1:16:58
I think saliva is starting. There is a there's a company out there. I think you have to sign some forms, but I'm hearing that that company is starting to pay for it also through insurance. But you're in for sure, no. So maybe saliva is your best bet if you don't have insurance.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:17
So what is a saliva test go for if I want to do a hormone panel

Speaker 3  1:17:21
around think two to $300 depends on what you want, what in there. But my patients kind of spend like the 300 because they want the whole e to e3 and also progesterone, cortisol, even the three point cortisol, I think four point even, you can do it so it's not cheap. That's why you can't do it all the time. It's just that. Again, the concept of salivary testing is the hormones that we use, especially topical, goes into the asinner cells of the salivary glands. So that's why it concentrates there, and that's why, when I mentioned about the lecture, that when you're using a lot of hormones already, it starts to accumulate, and of course, absorbance so different that it can be skewed after using salivary testing for a long period of time. It's good as an initial testing maybe a few months in. But really it's not your go to when you're in a chronic phase of using hormones already,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:20
and then suddenly we only use the urine test, right?

Speaker 3  1:18:23
And that too. That's not right, that's the thing. It's you're just seeing metabolites. You're not really seeing the real levels. I've seen practitioners adjust their dosing in relation to metabolites, but when you test it from saliva and also urinary, it's not matching, but you really have to coincide. I think symptoms really is your best bet. If you don't have that money to spend that much use blood and also your symptoms, I think you won't go wrong with that.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:52
Yeah, the problem with the blood, especially if they're on some you know, like testosterone therapies, especially women pellets, you're going to get blood levels of 100 200 300 but it's that's not really what's at the tissues, but they go to their, you know, doctor, who doesn't, you know, who's looking at the ranges, and they have, they have a conniption when they see this, right? I mean, I don't know. I've been doing the pellets, hormone pellets, since 2003 so somebody comes if we get a serum blood level of 102 on a testosterone level 30 to 40 is sort of our ideal, by the way, if you don't know off the top of your head, I don't panic, right? We go by. We go by. Symptoms.

Speaker 3  1:19:35
What's the black box warning that you have to probably be worried about? But again, they're not they're not thinking that it's bio identical. So you have to remember, when you're using serum, you always find the natural hormones in there. So when you're using bio identical, it's proper to use your it's proper to use serum. But if you're using synthetics, progestins, hydroxy progesterone, those are synthetic, and they're not going to show up you most of the time, in your in your serum.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:04
If you're my student and you're using synthetic hormones, you fail.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:08
So that's, well,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:11
I'd rather they don't use anything than use those.

Speaker 3  1:20:13
Yeah, good thing. I know this now, before I met you, you'll fail me, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:20
So I always say, Dr Quinn, in the recent in your in your apothecary group, if we can come up with a natural birth control pill, we can all, we can all retire as zillionaires.

Speaker 8  1:20:31
Well, there is one. It's a pill, but you have to use it by squeezing it between your knees. Think about it.

Speaker 2  1:20:44
Let's still family show here. So, oh, I'm sorry.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:49
So that's a good visual, though,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:52
yeah, that is, that is a good visual. Okay, any, any just didn't turn out the way I expected it, but that's okay. I hope it was worthwhile for for everybody. Anybody have any any comments or questions? Carol, you got anything to add you there?

Speaker 3  1:21:17
Well, I think one thing we can tell our audience, if nobody shows up. We're going to be here to show up for you guys.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:24
Okay, the hot topic of the day.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:28
It was very good conference.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:32
Oh, come over patronelle. We have good stuff for you. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:35
we have good stuff. We want to see you all in person. But we only have, we only have room for 60 and with so we start, and we need, we need some signups here. Okay, food

Speaker 6  1:21:47
for the conference in December. In December, yeah, yeah, I have to sign up. I saw, actually, the email that I received with the conference. It went in my junk, in my Kevin

Speaker 2  1:22:03
on the night. Soon as we're done here, I will, I will take care of that. Okay, so Congress of medical excellence.com.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:15
You should be getting an email at least once or twice a week about it now and register please. We have our, you know, our speakers here, and those of us, rest of you who are speakers, if you haven't sent in your bios and whatnot, please, do we need a bio? We need a picture, and we need a CV. Our agenda day one is, is our research day we've got. Dr Burgess will be greeting everyone. Dr Tanno is going to be talking about his Tobin system. Dr James and Dr Dimitri will be talking about the heavy metal detoxification and the research group. Dr Naria will be on Dr Quinn will be on day two. Is homeopathy day this is Dr Gerber's day to shine. We have Dr Thomas Levy, coming up from Medellin, Colombia. I think that's where he's from, right? Dr Gerber, he's going to do three hours of the only cause of disease healing by reversing pathology. He's going to do most of the morning. We're going to also have

Unknown Speaker  1:23:27
a earlier.

Speaker 9  1:23:28
That's correct. Just, is it okay to ask questions about the December seminar? Absolutely. What is the the exhibitor fees. Okay, exhibitor fees, oh, you have it.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:47
We're going, we're going to get to it. Alright. Venue where it is, except here we go. Okay, so the fees are, exhibitor table is $500 okay, Friday lunch is already, what was that? Yeah, we're not, we're not a for M here $500 for just, you know, a regular table, and you know, we'll place everybody as prominently as possible. Friday, lunch is already booked. That's going to be from Sierra pharmacy. They'll going to give us about a 30 minute non CME presentation. And then Saturday, I think we're pretty close to signing that one up. Also, that's a 1500 lunch. So, so those, so the $500 lunch, $500 for the is for a table. So, you know, pretty inexpensive. And you know, it's really, you know, not that much. Hopefully we will sell out. We will have at least 60 in attendance, and then then online. And so for everybody that's here, if you do not want to share your email list with us, which is fine, I understand. But if you could take our mailing that you get and spread it out to all of your, all of your, you know colleagues and those that are on your email list, so we spread the word, and we really appreciate it.

Speaker 9  1:25:32
Dr Clearfield, yes, how are we going to split up the regular category one? CME, without divulging the generic or not generic, but the the the actual product name, what are you talking about? How are we going to split that up, if we give a talk, if we use generic terms with no product names, right? And then are that going to go off and we can give product names, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:26:01
afterwards, yeah, yeah. We have a pretty tight schedule. Usually, what we do is have you go out in the hallway and then you can talk about, you know, your products there, if there's time left over.

Speaker 9  1:26:11
But, I mean, just, you know, regular names of the usual products that we're using in the slides.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:17
You can use, you know, I mean, you can use Arnica, you're not going to use, you know, aren't a care, okay? So Arnica, arnica Montana, per se, instead of Arna care, we're

Speaker 9  1:26:28
not going to give any have any time during the presentation for brand names or companies.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:33
You know, that's not my rules. That's ACCME rules. I mean, that's, you know, that's if we, if we do, we're going to not be able to grant the CME

Speaker 9  1:26:43
credits. So we won't be able to split it at this at the moment.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:47
We can when, so, so when the, let's say, Dr Gerber, you have an hour to speak. You take 50 minutes and with with questions, and there's 10 minutes left over. We will let the, you know, the videographer, know that, you know the time is up, and then those 10 minutes you can, you can talk about, you know, your products and whatnot.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:09
Very good. Thank you. Yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:13
that sound fair? Dr Nario, yeah, okay, okay. Anybody else have any questions again, the venue is the element hotel, you know, it's, it's a smallish hotel. It's across the street from the pepper mill, which is, you know, a big, big Casino Hotel. There's no, there's no smoking in here, there's no, there's no casinos. But it's, it's a nice place, you know, it's kind of bare bones. But again, we did this in sort of an impromptu fashion, mostly for the homeopaths in novat in Nevada, Dr Nario, so we expect a big crowd from them. Okay, so we should be on the phone, calling them all, starting tonight.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:02
If they want their renewals, they will come. We're on the education team, so we're going to

Bill Clearfield  1:28:09
be all right. Well, I think we think about that. Think we need to start hitting it pretty hard now, because we're what six, eight weeks, six to seven weeks away. Yep, right. Okay. Okay. Next week, Dr Crowley. Ken Crowley will be on he's going to be talking about cardiovascular rejuvenation in the glycocalyx. Sorry about the kerfuffle with the tonight's speakers. I hope it was worthwhile. I think we reviewed some things and learned a couple of new things, hopefully. Anybody, any questions, comments, any any, any other topics you want to talk about?

Speaker 9  1:28:50
Yes, I don't know how I get myself on video. Well, you're on video. I

Unknown Speaker  1:28:56
am. You're on screen. Yes, well, yeah,

Speaker 9  1:28:59
well, I can't see myself. No, I was just going to ask Dr Nerio, how was Austria? How did you do? Oh, okay,

Speaker 3  1:29:07
so Austria has actually an amazing experience. The thing that I want to tell everybody there here, that there's so many things that we cannot do that is actually something that's being used over there. So a lot of homeopathy, that's number one. Everybody knows that, but there is now a remedy of homeopathic integration. They're using cell walls of bacteria to actually not treat infections. They're actually treating autoimmune diseases. They're treating even osteoarthritis, even Crohn's and Ulcerative Colitis. So now they're seeing the potential of cell membrane bacteria in relation to the stimulating, the stimulation of the immune system. So that's something hopefully that can come in here, but that's they're just using this left and right. Another one is hyperthermia. So hyperthermia has been known to only be used in relation to cancer, but they showed us studies over there that it can actually help with detoxification, for example, and also it helps with a lot of autoimmune conditions. So it's basically being labeled now as our hyperbaric chamber here, which can be used in so many different ways. So I know there was some incident before in the States when hyperthermia got somebody injured, and thus it got banned, but we're missing a lot when we're getting deprived from these specific therapies. And another one is a PMF device. I know we have a lot of PMF devices here, but they have one there that's so popular that every integrative doctor has in their clinic. And this is highly spoken of by Doctor Rao. I don't know if anybody knows about Doctor Rao there, but he is the one who advocated for this pmf device, for the reason that he saw so many, I guess revelations in his treatment and his cancer, his cancer, I guess he has cancer therapies that he's doing in Switzerland in his own clinic there. So that's why, though, we don't, they don't they have things that we don't have the and vice versa. But really, the medicine over there is so it's not totally different, but it's so innovative, where we're also like, kind of head to head with them in terms of advances, but yeah, everybody should probably check out a European Conference at least once in their life to at least experience and understand what's going on in the integrative world in another part of the the

Speaker 9  1:31:33
world. But what did you speak on Dr Nario? No,

Speaker 3  1:31:37
it's more basically hormones. So the hormones that we always use, and it's something that we're so used to doing, but them, they're just scratching their heads about it. So there's a lot of hesitancy about hormones, but again, it's something that they need to be open about slowly. Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:55
thanks for holding up our end. Man, yes, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:59
So just as a little aside, so I'm actually on a British menopause society doesn't call that a British menopause group. I've attended a couple of their their their lectures, and all they are way behind us, as far as you know. You know, even considering progesterone. Forget it that they can't even get it pregnant alone. They can't get or DHEA

Speaker 3  1:32:32
and Europe, European, the UK. Oh, UK, okay,

Speaker 5  1:32:37
yeah, oh, in the UK, primary care physicians can use only up to 200 milligrams of progesterone.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:46
Yeah, no, they were, they're, they're very, very reluctant to even even consider it at all. And that 10 year window, that's a hard No, quote, unquote hard No.

Speaker 5  1:32:59
They can get pregnant alone over the counter. Though, I've got some clients there that got it.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:06
Yeah, yeah. So it says, Dr, pregnant. I have a DR McCullough has pregnant alone with the Aga. So we get it too over the counter. But in the UK, this is what they this is, again, I'm just listening. This is what was said.

Speaker 5  1:33:23
Yeah, they don't have very much compounding pharmacies there. No, and that's a big disadvantage.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:32
The other, the other, if you want an eye opener, I want another website called UK thyroid. And it's, it's patients, and they have thyroid issues. And you know the universal complainers, they go to the National Health Service doctors who don't know anything. Then they go to the endocrinologists who most of them seem to know less. There's a few private ones that they have to pay for. They'll never do antibodies in the National Health Service, and their their idea of they don't, they don't deal with it, the antibodies anyway, even the more progressive ones, they say, well, the antibodies means you have autoimmune disease. So that's, that's all it means. So I don't know, I've been doing it for 20 years. When we get that, when we reduce the antibody load. Our patients get better. So yeah, and so question about yet, conference is virtual also, and it's 20 CME credits you can get either either in person or online. Okay, so ama category one CME credits, and we got a pretty good deal on those. It didn't cost us all that much. So at first, we were dealing with bandits, but we put them in their place. So, so we're hoping to have, you know, a nice turnout. We usually put on a pretty nice show. And you know, for some of us, we haven't been together in a number of years, and it's the old American Osteopathic Society of rheumatic diseases. We've had some we said, we've had some fun times, you know, and even after they kind of bounced us out. So I went back and looked, if you go on our website, aosrd.org you'll find a video from Dr Peter McAuliffe. Those of you who know he is, you know he was at our conference live in March of 2022, and I traced it back that the day that he spoke at our conference was the day they opened their inquiry to to, you know, eliminate, eliminate our group the exact same day. So not a, not a coincidence. I don't think so. So. So with that, anybody somebody asked him, Oh, what about vitamin C and hormones? Okay, well, that's a whole another lecture. We'll, we'll, we'll save that for another time when we have a hole in the schedule, okay? Or you can come to Florida next week, I think March 20, October 24

Unknown Speaker  1:36:10
how much for? How much? Again,

Unknown Speaker  1:36:12
$1,600

Unknown Speaker  1:36:14
this is a vitamin C conference. So

Speaker 3  1:36:16
yeah, just record it and then, yeah, played on our session.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:21
I'm not that excited about, well, that excited about vitamin C. Some of you, I don't know if you use a high dose vitamin C

Unknown Speaker  1:36:27
at all. Dr Nario, I use a lot of it. You

Bill Clearfield  1:36:31
don't need to go to a two day conference to become certified by this.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:34
Not really.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:37
You'll muddle through without their certification.

Speaker 9  1:36:40
I'm good. I'm good. Okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:45
anything else? Dr Quinn, what do you got from the research group?

Speaker 8  1:36:48
Oh, just usual stuff. Most of the things that we're talking about center around the educational programs that we want to implement, as well as the as the conference, we spent a lot of time talking about the conference, which is great to make sure that we kind of present everything with our best foot forward. But that said, but I do have a complaint about the venue in Reno. See, I prefer, as a local here in Vegas to go to the Venetian and not get my local discount for parking. Wander through a toxic parking structure for 20 minutes, find my way into the Venetian get to the Starbucks for a 45 minute wait for an overpriced cup of coffee, bump into 200 people on my way down the hallway before I get where I'm going. Can we duplicate that?

Bill Clearfield  1:37:39
Somehow you went to the wrong place. You come into the wrong place. You know, you can eliminate some of that. You could take an Uber. It would probably cost you less back and forth in parking at the Venetian

Unknown Speaker  1:37:52
right.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:55
Go, go to the Starbucks across the street, not in the, in the in the pepper mill, or in the in the Venetian what else? What else do you want? So there, I just saved you about 60 bucks, right

Unknown Speaker  1:38:08
there. I need to bump into more people.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:12
You won't bump into that many people here, even if, even if we were at the pepper mill. But what did Dr Burt last time we did it there, that Dr Burgess didn't like the smoke in the place. So, I mean, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:38:22
that's the other part. Walk through the casino at the Venetian so I can get my clothes smelling like smoke.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:29
Well, you know, part of the Vegas experience, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:33
must be right. So you know

Bill Clearfield  1:38:35
your your significant other, if you don't come home smelling like smoke, will think you were some place you shouldn't look good.

Speaker 8  1:38:42
Exactly No. Otherwise, the research group, no, we're we're going strong again. Seriously, we are spending a lot of time making sure that we give a good presentation and whatnot in December. And I think we're only kind of deciding now whether we're going to break out kind of our thoughts on the educational part of the research and how research connects with that. So we're going over that, so we'll let you know. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:12
great. Okay,

Speaker 8  1:39:13
John, you got anything for us? Man, Everything's beautiful. Okay. Are you coming out here December? If I'm well enough, I'll find out. Okay, if not, remember, we're online too. Yeah, I'm definitely doing the online. Okay, everything's good.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:30
And unlike the AOA, I'm not going to tell you. If you don't know how to behave, don't

Unknown Speaker  1:39:34
come. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:38
I got to, just to let you know, those of you don't know that, when we were told that, you know, we were no longer a specialty society, I received their personal cease and desist letter from the head Council of the AOA, and they told me not to come to Omid because I don't know how to behave.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:57
Wow, have you improved?

Bill Clearfield  1:40:02
Prove No, it's gotten worse. You know, you know, as you, as you mature, once you hit 70, you don't care anymore.

Speaker 8  1:40:14
So, but they Hey, since Dr Quinn mentioned the pill between the knees. I first started dating my girl, who was the daughter of a Marine, and he said, put a rock in your shoe, boy, it'll make you limp. That's all. He said, Okay. And then I and I found out the next day he hit a Rambo knife in the newspaper because he was planning to cut my head off. He was good man. He was a pro. Anyway, put a rock in your shoe. It'll make you lamp. That's a joke.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:56
A second in the house here, he's our marine. What do you have to say about that?

Unknown Speaker  1:40:59
Joe, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:03
Agree. All right, how you doing?

Speaker 8  1:41:06
Hey, can I mention one thing, somebody, a few people have mentioned round tables. So every time we have an hour lecture, 50 minute lecture, we have five minutes as a round table. And since Dr Gerber brought it up, if we are having a five minute round table, could that be part, partly a time when we can use brand names,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:31
as long as it's not recorded anywhere that you know, it's videoed that's going to be used as you know what we're doing for CME, if you guys, you know I don't care personally, I could care less. You know you okay, you know you can talk about whatever the hell you want, but we don't want to, you know, you know we want to, don't want to anger the CME gods. That's the, that's the whole, that's the whole point. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:57
well, Kevin, now

Bill Clearfield  1:41:58
and again, you know. You know, those who are not physicians, a lot of, most of their accrediting bodies will take CME credits as as credit for whatever you know that whatever they have nurse practitioners and and the you know, the the physical therapists and all see, CME credits. Ama, CME credits will count for them, so we don't want to jeopardize that. Okay, okay, turn camera off. Got it. So as long as the cameras put that on you, and you know nobody, nobody's recording you, I don't care what the hell you talk about.

Speaker 8  1:42:39
Okay. All right. We have, we have had some requests from our side, about a round table at the end. I don't know if there's time, or if that's a thought. It was kind of brought up originally,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:54
yeah, I know. Well, you know, problem is we have, we had so many volunteer, you know, good volunteers. We kind of ran out of space, but I can almost guarantee you this, there will be one or two folks who won't come, won't be able to come, or especially at the last minute. So we will, instead of filling that in, I'll save that. We'll save that for the round table. Okay, so it'll be, you'll be on the on deck circle, and we'll try to do our best, you know, to get get some of that in. Okay, right? I know, fabulous. You know, we kind of promised that. Okay, alright, so next week, Doctor Crowley will be here, and week after that, we're going to have Chris Miletus again. He's the naturopath. We've had him on a couple of times. So thank you all for being here. I hope, I hope it was, it was a little bit impromptu, but I hope it was at least a little bit informative review for some of you, and it was a review for me.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:58
So Great job, guys.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:00
Okay, so thank you all again. Any comments, questions, problems, let me know, sign up for the conference. Or you know, Joel. Joel's going to be around to break your legs.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:13
Amen. I'm a little bored lately.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:17
Okay, so we're going to, we're going to sit he's down in Vegas for a little while there. So we're going to, we're going to send them around your way. Dr Quinn, so you better sign Okay, okay. I want to, I want to see five signups from every person, every person who's a

Speaker 8  1:44:30
speaker. Okay, okay. Hold out.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:34
Okay. That's, that's doable, right? That's doable. And I want, I want 100% attendance from the homeo the homeopathic exact board of examiner.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:47
People, yes, yes,

Speaker 2  1:44:48
okay, alright, okay, good. Everybody. Thank you all. Joe, you look great. Thank you very much. Come come home. Soon. We miss you. We'll do

Unknown Speaker  1:44:59
Likewise, likewise. Dr Neriah, miss you. Take care. You bet. Bye. Now.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai