Speaker 1  00:39
Okay, gotcha. Can you hear me?

Bill Clearfield  00:41
Yep,

Speaker 1  00:42
cool.

Bill Clearfield  00:43
Good. So I'm going away, of course, tonight. So, of course, it's a zoo today, right? Okay, I got you as co-host there, yep. Okay, we're going to get Steph on here. He's going to.. it's going. it's going to be trays.

Speaker 1  01:55
Yeah, he sure is. There he

Speaker 2  02:17
is. Up, Joe.

Bill Clearfield  02:19
Hey there. How was your, that was your conference in Lake Tahoe.

Speaker 2  02:24
I thought you were going to put a hit on somebody for me. Well, those are those your friends,

Bill Clearfield  02:34
those are my buddies. Yeah,

Speaker 2  02:37
who is specifically?

Bill Clearfield  02:39
I won't mention any names,

Speaker 2  02:41
I got Austin.

Bill Clearfield  02:43
You never, you never, you never know what future litigation might arise. So don't want to, don't want to tip any hands.

Speaker 2  02:53
Yeah, I got Austin. I got,

Bill Clearfield  02:55
was it, it was, was it a BTL-let conference? Is that what it was? It was, yeah,

Speaker 1  03:01
BTL. They were

Speaker 2  03:04
featuring their machines, and I'm sure you know, Nanda Lou, Dr. Lou.

Bill Clearfield  03:12
I'm, I'm Switzerland.

Speaker 2  03:15
You're what?

Bill Clearfield  03:17
Notice who they did invite Lake Tahoe, was 45 minutes away.

Speaker 2  03:24
I know, I was surprised if

Bill Clearfield  03:26
I hadn't hadn't, you hadn't told me, I wouldn't have known anything about it.

Speaker 2  03:30
Oh, it's a hush hush around you.

Bill Clearfield  03:33
Yep, I'm radioactive.

Speaker 2  03:37
Also, it's Sande Nong, Grata, or Sondhengrada.

Bill Clearfield  03:41
Yeah, I'm proud of it.

Speaker 2  03:43
Okay, you didn't miss anything, really,

Speaker 3  03:46
Dr. Nadio. I would like to ask, what kind of machine they presented? They had lasers.

Speaker 2  03:54
Oh, I think Dr. Bill can tell you more. No, he has, he has the devices. These are basically it's a combination of vibration, shock waves, laser lights, so they have esthetic devices. So the company is BTL, and they have, I think, the one that the more the more famous one for them is the Sculpt Neo, is that what is Dr. Bill

Bill Clearfield  04:26
Sculpt Neo,

Speaker 2  04:28
M Sculpt Neo, and it's something that builds muscle and burns fat. It's an applicator, it has a lot, it's like pretty strong in terms of shock waves. So this is something that they're saying, that it's almost working out. You can get apps just by..

Bill Clearfield  04:46
it's like doing.. I forget exactly the number.. 12,000 sit-ups, and it's the equivalent of 12,000 sit-ups in 30 minutes. I think that's what they say. Might be more.

Speaker 3  04:59
Wow, unbelievable. I could not even, but of

Bill Clearfield  05:02
course, how did.. how they determined that is kind of unknown. Don't ask

Speaker 2  05:07
Dr. Bill to show his abs, you know what

Bill Clearfield  05:12
I got. I got a 12 pack going on here,

Speaker 2  05:15
so yeah, that's only one of them, but there's a lot more, like laser for pain. There's a chair for prostate issues, erectile dysfunction, incontinence for women,

Speaker 3  05:32
but how much was the chair for incontinence for women?

Speaker 2  05:37
Is that Dr. used one

Bill Clearfield  05:39
cheap? I got one for you,

Speaker 2  05:45
I think it's anybody

Bill Clearfield  05:46
that's in the market for one, let me know.

Speaker 2  05:48
It's 200,000 I think

Speaker 3  05:51
100,000

Speaker 2  05:53
right? 150 to 200 Dr. Bill, is that right?

Bill Clearfield  05:57
Well, I, since I got it with an, with another device, I got, I got it for once 109 and it was a demo, so I got a, I got a bargain.

Speaker 2  06:09
Ah, okay. Well, yeah, the real price of that is 150 I think it was

Bill Clearfield  06:13
179 was the real price.

Speaker 2  06:16
Who knows? They kind of put different places out there. They always win with this. You can't, you can't buy something and they still lose,

Speaker 3  06:27
but I think they are so much overpriced, because probably you know they - I mean, I know that probably they take them with 50,000 they sell them with 100,000 Do

Speaker 2  06:39
you know the device, but Janell, have you encountered there

Speaker 3  06:43
was a guy, there was a man, Michael something, I forgot, he was in the Ray Beach, and I had him on my gather cell, that, but I don't have that cell anymore, so he told me that he has some kind of device that women fit, and then they strengthen the pelvic muscles, and they prevent stop the incontinence, which was very interesting, like, yeah, to prevent the incontinence, but I didn't know there are also for erectile dysfunction and things like that, but probably because a lot of, but I want to say to you that there is a device that is called M M bands, or B bands. I will give you the phone number, because I have the website too, and you put those bands and the muscles grow unbelievable. I saw a doctor, he, he's using this, and he came to talk to a conference of him.

Speaker 2  07:47
Interesting,

Speaker 3  07:48
it was Dr. Ace. So, he, this guy was invited, and he talked about it, and M bands, and then another cardiologist lady, she used them, and she also said it works. So, I believe it works, but I didn't try.

Speaker 2  08:04
Yeah, there's a lot of stuff that was there.

Speaker 3  08:07
It's with it, does some kind of small hypoxia to the muscle, and I don't know what was the underlying mechanism,

Speaker 2  08:18
but I tell you, they sold a lot of them, got machines. It's like a times, you know, those timeshares, they kind of reel you in. They put a good show and talk you through it, talk your ear off.

Speaker 1  08:35
Yeah, there's an art to it, that's for sure.

Speaker 2  08:41
Yeah, I'm sure Dr. Bill remembers those times when

Bill Clearfield  08:45
good times, good times,

Speaker 3  08:48
but what about the cardiology machine, that machine that it's for the heart to diagnose myocarditis, arrhythmia, that it's equivalent to a cardio calf. Oh, yeah,

Speaker 2  08:59
I think that was presented here, remember, Dr. Bill. I don't know, it's still in. Is it ready for sale, or is it something that is not available? If it

Bill Clearfield  09:10
was available yet, so

Speaker 2  09:12
argue that.

Speaker 3  09:12
What, what is it? It's not available for sale,

Speaker 2  09:17
I think. So, because it's well, no, it is, but it's very expensive. I remember that a good 100 1000s, I think, but you're pertaining to the one that got presented, right?

Bill Clearfield  09:32
What I don't understand, Dr. Nario, is I have three of their machines, and I didn't know anything about this, and they invited you and not me.

Speaker 2  09:39
That's why I really told you I thought I'm gonna see you there.

Bill Clearfield  09:46
Yeah, I didn't know anything about it. You're the one who said it was Bill Johnsky conference, you said, right? Isn't that what it was? No,

Speaker 2  09:55
that's that's different, that's something else, cancer stuff. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:59
okay. The

Speaker 2  10:01
BTL, yeah, that's different. Just a one day conference, basically.

Bill Clearfield  10:07
Okay, all right, all right. Well, now that we've banted about to after 5o'clock and we have a nice crowd here, would you like to do your, your, your tip of the week?

Speaker 2  10:24
All right, right.

Bill Clearfield  10:25
I have an update on our friend Paisley. If anybody's interested, you remember her, the 10 year old girl, definitely 10 year old lady, young lady with all the autoimmune issues. Yes. So, I don't know if you're interested in that, or should we do, do you do your typical week, Doctor? Yeah, okay,

Speaker 2  10:46
it'll be a bit quick. So today I'll just talk about, so I've been doing readings, and so one of the most common questions we hear in medicine is, so, Doctor, I started my detox program, and why do I actually feel worse? So perhaps you've heard this. So, a patient starts in a homotoxic protocol with drainage remedies. They use liver support, like glutathione, NAC, lymphatic support through exercise rebounding and vibration therapy, even gut optimization with probiotics and fiber. So, a week later, they reported fatigue, loose stool, sinus drainage, or even return of, like, an old eczema or rash. As physicians, we often reassure them by saying that's just detox. It's an easy answer, but it's not the complete answer. According to Homo toxicology, the more accurate explanation is regressive by creation. So, bicoration simply means that the movement of disease from one phase to another. So, progressive vicaration is disease moving deeper into the body from acute inflammation to chronic degeneration, and regressive vicaration is the exact opposite. So, it's the movement from deeper disease back towards the body's normal methods of healing through excretion and controlled inflammation. So, as chronic illness develops, the body often isolates homotoxins, as we call them, within the tissues to protect vital organs. So, when we begin anti-homotoxic therapies, so we reactively, the body's self-regulating mechanisms. So, those stored toxins are mobilized, and the body resumes using its natural elimination pathways. So, clinically, patients may temporarily experience loose duals, increase sweating, sinus drainage, urinary frequency, or even brief return of an old skin eruption. But here's the clinical pearl: the true regressive vicaration should be benign, transient, self-limited, and short-lived, and patients may feel temporarily worse, but they should continue to trend towards overall improvement. So, if symptoms become severe, prolonged, progressive, or involves new organ dysfunction, we should not simply label it as detox. So, those patients deserve further evaluation. Clinical judgment always comes first. So, regressive vicaration also follows Herring's Law. So, healing progresses from inside to outside, top to bottom, and often in the reverse order that symptoms originally appeared, so instead of telling our patients you're just detoxifying, perhaps we should give them a better explanation, but of course this is for us to understand the whole process better. That's your league of the week.

Bill Clearfield  13:14
Okay. All right, anybody have any questions about that.

Speaker 2  13:22
Well, I'll have to be honest, if something happens to my patient, I tell them you're detoxifying, so that's kind of like a safe answer, but really in your head you're thinking what is going on here, so it kind of gives you a little bit more time to find out what's going on. It's like a safety answer for me, I guess.

Bill Clearfield  13:38
Okay, before we go on, Dr. Collins wrote in the chat that she's on the clinical tee for MP gun, and it is amazing. So, are you, are you there, Dr. Collins? What tell us? I'm

Speaker 4  13:49
here, I'm so excited. So, tell

Bill Clearfield  13:51
us about this.

Speaker 4  13:52
So, I have.. I don't know if you guys remember the talk on the glycocalyx and PRF, and I had that protocol, alternating procedures, but you know, you have to use topical lidocaine, and you have to the surface area for lidocaine toxicity, like if I'm doing a full body treatment, you can't obviously coat the full body in lidocaine, so this actual gun, instead of a micro needle that drags, it actually penetrates individually, and almost like an IV, you know, or like when you're dosing the how many drips per minute, or whatever, it actually has a press to it, so you can adjust the press in the needle tips to the depth of who's going to go 10 millimeters, but what I thought was interesting is, you know, we've talked about lidocaine injections here for pain and for for many things, and so it's painless. I thought it was a joke, I'm like, there's no way that this is painless, it's 15, like 50,000 miles an hour of needles in your face or in your head, and it is not hurt. I believe it or not, I tried it myself, but the disposables are $5 you guys, and the device is 7500 and they're actually.. I don't get paid from this. I'm just so excited, because to me, this is like this could be a game changer for somebody's practice for incorporating regenerative and esthetic medicine and optimizing patients' health, and then actually doing scar therapy and such, and they have in-house financing for 0% for 12 months. I'm like, what's the catch, you guys? I think they just want more clinical studies on it. So, if you're interested in part of the clinicals, just message me later. It's really neat. So, I'm doing like hyper-dilute Kybella for lipomas and things like that, it's kind of neat. All

Bill Clearfield  15:25
right, I think we need to arrange a workshop or something.

Speaker 4  15:29
Yes, I would love that.

Speaker 3  15:30
Doctor, can you put your information again in the chat?

Speaker 4  15:34
Yeah, thank you, guys. I just wanted to say I'm so thankful for you guys. I love Tuesday nights.

Speaker 3  15:40
Oh, we are also thankful to you.

Bill Clearfield  15:43
I spring this on you, Dr. Nario. I think it's about time we get ourselves together for this year, since we, we're, we should be recovered from last year. So, at this, at this rate, it's going to be the first weekend in December again. So, I would love to

Speaker 4  15:58
go, and yeah, I mean, I can get them to come. Yeah, that I don't.. I mean, I would say that I would think so.

Bill Clearfield  16:02
All right, well, we'll discuss it here. If not,

Speaker 4  16:06
I'll teach it, and we can do weird things, because you can actually inject different peptides and such, like pretty daggum cool. So, anyways,

Speaker 1  16:12
we're up for weird things, definitely.

Speaker 4  16:16
Yes, right, that's why I brought it here.

Bill Clearfield  16:19
So, tonight, tonight's speaker is Stefan Hartman, who, quite frankly, as time goes on, I'm a little bit jealous of, because I wish I wish I was doing what I'm doing now when I was Stefan's age, so I had a whole career in front of me, and sort of, sort of just being kind of a caretaker here, because when I was, you know, when I was 15 years in, I didn't know anything about what we do now, and I, I always tell everybody, you know, I, I hated being a real doctor, you know, when the insurance model and all of that, and I always tell everybody now that I, if I had to be doing that, I'd be driving an Uber, I certainly wouldn't be doing, doing any, any in medicine, so you know he's such a great dynamic guy. Although I hear tonight he's going to be talking of, he's going to be doing something a little bit heretical for for us. So I see moms with him, we asked for her, and she'll keep him reigned in a little bit, I hope, right? So I'm not gonna.. why don't you bring up your own topic, since, since you're gonna.. you're being a traitor to the cause here, and tell everybody what it's all about.

Speaker 5  17:32
Well, tonight is my lecture on how we can eliminate heart disease, and this is by myself, a reformed lipid Denialist is how I've coined the term, because I used to not believe in this stuff, as many of you guys, but at the end of this lecture, I think I will be able to convince each and every one of you that lipid lowering therapy is anti-aging medicine. So to prove that I've been one of you guys, even if you haven't been here with me for the past six years, giving lectures, I've been featured on Carnivore podcasts, I've been in lipid Denialist circles, but now I attend weekly Grand La Round lectures with America's cardiologist, as he likes to call himself, Dr. Mohammed Alo, and he is famous, or infamous, for saying that we can completely eliminate cardiovascular disease from the human population by following simple method, get ApoB below 65 you can't build plaque, get LDL below 60, you can't build plaque, get LDL below 40, and you can reverse plaque, and this has been a pivotal, a 180 shift for me once I learned this, but Who taught me this? We're going to get that in a second. This lecture is not going to be about exercise to prevent cardiovascular disease. I've given multiple topics on that for this show and many other our colleague shows, stem cell physicians and Dr. Halass group. This lecture will not be on diabetes management, because those are obvious reasons for cardiovascular disease, and these are not controversial in our study. We use GLP ones all the time to treat diabetes and prevent cardiovascular disease, but Who convinced me that living with high LDL is not conducive to anti-aging medicine? And it was my friend here, Dr. Clearfield. I like to call this the Clearfield show. On Tuesday, he taught me to treat estrogen correctly by optimizing FSH, and a friend of mine, who's also in this chat here, he's a PCS canine mutant who lives happily with an LDL in the single digits. His last score was about a nine. This should, if you're practicing HRT medicine, and you're following Dr. Clearfield's greatest theory, which is dose estradiol to FSH between five and 24 you're going to see something pretty tremendous, hopefully, and that's where we're reversing the age in women when you have a young female, they have low PS canine, and this means they have lots of LDL receptors on their liver, and their metabolizing lipids, their ApoB is low. When that POSTMENOPAUSAL shift happens, and they get low estrogen, then you have this high PS canine activity. It's an enzyme that involutes these LDL receptors on the liver. Now, my friend, as you saw in the previous slide, Andrew DeCairo, he was born with this mutation, and we're going to talk about these mutants more on the planet, and why they're so important, and why psk nine and estrogen should convince you all, because repatha is a drug, psk nine inhibiting drug out there, it's an injectable drug that does the same thing that estrogen would do, optimally dosed estrogen. Let's take a look at a few cases. I don't know if you guys treat the whole age of patients, but I do at Iron Primocane, we do. We do family medicine here, and so I oftentimes will order a lipid panel on the mom and the daughter at the same time, because if you're trying to dose estrogen appropriately, and the woman's like, well, what is optimal estrogen levels? Well, let's check your daughter if you don't have a record yourself, and oftentimes we will see what look, what the what happens in the lipids as well. So you can see a mom age 60 on the left and daughter, age 25 on the right, both live together, eat the same meals, neither take medicines, they're suspicious medicines. You can see the LDL particle count is about 3000 for the mom and around 800 for the daughter. Look also at the LDL, it is 258 on the mom's side and 100 on the daughter's side. Take a look at the hormones.

Speaker 5  21:42
Here we have an Estradiol on the daughter of 184 and very low Estradiol on the mom side, about 9.4 She's a little bit heavier, set, you know, the midsection grows oftentimes in these women, and she's producing Estrone is 32 it's a three to one ratio, actually of estrogen to Estradiol, so her own fat cells are actually producing estrogen, but this is pretty typical for a POSTMENOPAUSAL female. Here's another. Here's a mom who's 63 she's on a low dose Estradiol, it's not optimizing her FSH. You can see her FSH is about 50, her ApoB is extraordinarily elevated. This person may even have familial hypercholesterolemia, and we have a cholesterol of 322 an LDL of 238 Take a look at the female on the right, that's the daughter, an FSH of four, an Estradiol of 137 and an ApoB, very low, I think it was what was her ApoB, a 75 right, Estradiol is the body's power for youth. We all know that here. Who, those of us who practice anti-aging medicine, we dose Estradiol, what? To prevent bone loss, to prevent muscle mass loss. It also, we all tell our patients, it prevents cardiac risk. It decreases cardiac risk. Why? Well, it improves arterial playability if you have better collagen synthesis, better elastic elastility, yes, great, but what does optimally dosed Estradiol do? Theoretically, it could lower ApoB by increasing LDL receptors by suppressing PSK nine, right? But that's all theoretical. I don't think anybody has actually done that and looked at that. These are the mechanisms again, here in anti-aging medicine, we agree that Estradiol dose optimally is primary prevention. That's what we do. Anti-aging medicine, primary caregiver practice, ApoB increases with age. We can agree that must be pathological, the same way Estradiol decline with age is pathological, and both should be treated. Everybody out here who is ignoring lipids needs to start ordering lipids and optimizing them, even if you're just doing optimal Estradiol dosing. See how far that can take you. Then we're going to talk later about what to do next. And then what about myself? I'm that lean mass hyper responder you've heard about on social media. I'm I have a very lean physique, I'm very muscular, I'm very athletic. I'm ranked number 18 in the world in men's 30 to 35 tennis on the world tennis circuit. Why would I start Rosuvavastatin five milligrams, ezetimibe 10 milligrams? I don't smoke, I don't drink hard, I have an upperal spritz, don't get me wrong. Isn't living with high lipids normal and natural? Natural is heart attack, natural is strokes, natural is frailty, and natural is lack of hormones with age, and we don't want any of that. We have to dispel the myth that cardiovascular disease isn't only about insulin resistance plus high lipids. Being insulin sensitive doesn't protect you against cardiovascular disease, it doesn't exempt you from it. You can have both LDL cholesterol independently drives atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease through chronic exposure. That European journalists have come to this conclusion as well. Incident resistance, of course, is a direct vascular toxin. You can't let yourself have diabetes and have, you know, obesity on the midsection. It's not great. We all agree on that. We all do that in integrative and functional medicine. We talk about the insulin resistance. Then we get into the extreme diets. We have two camps. We have the keto carnivores, who think if you don't touch a carb, you're somehow magically protected against cardiovascular disease, and then we have also the vegan and vegetarians, and actually, if you go to a four-m conferences, you'll actually find a lot of vegan, vegetarian lectures out there, and they shun saturated fat. They also agree that saturated fat may cause cardiovascular disease, but you know, how much does diet really play a role in lipids? Maybe not so much, as we'll find out later. Here's some Carnivore influencers out there. Sarah Zaldivar was a friend of mine. She is still a friend. She's also hopped off the Carnivore train. A lot of carnivores now are quitting, like Dr. Klitz. He's a famous Carnivore doctor out there. His coronary artery calcium score increased from 700 to 800 He just published that last week, admitting that maybe he was wrong. He now has three blockages in his arteries. He's going to need a coronary artery bypass graft.

Speaker 5  26:08
There's a picture of me with Sean Baker, who's not yet fallen off the Carnivore train. This is a direct primary care doctor I knew of in Arizona. He died suddenly of who knows what may have been related to his diet, and a lot of his patients were left stuck without a DPC doctor. Very sad whenever a DPC doctor dies, because his patients are left without someone to take care of them. The keto CTA study, you guys have probably seen this on social media. Nick Norwitz, a couple other big keto guys were promoting this study. What did they look at well, they really search for these lean mass hypersponsors, like people like me, who are lean, who had a lot of cholesterol, and they followed them for a time. Now, this study wasn't done very well, and it actually had to be RETRACTED, and they were initially promoting and saying, "Look, this proves that LDL cholesterol doesn't cause cardiovastatin disease, when in fact, when you actually looked at it, the people had two times more plaque growth in a very short period of time, in one year. It's not very great study, but it even proved that their theory was wrong. Why functional and health are at particular risk for lipid denialism? And I was there, and you guys are there as well. We all got pushed these vaccines in the pandemic. We were coerced into it. We were fired from our jobs. We told we couldn't go to the movies. We couldn't travel without it. We were all told to get these rushed experimental vaccines that were done on a very short trial. So what we did in that is we kind of threw out the baby with the bathroom. We said all big pharma science is bad, and we threw out years and hundreds of 1000s of patient years of study on lipid lowering. We said all big pharma is bad, and this is intellectually probably dishonest. Because in COVID, what did we use? We used dexamethasone, we used budesonide, we prescribed oxygen, right? We repurposed ivermectin, we used methyl gluten, we use big pharma drugs? We use it every day. We can't just say a big pharma is all bad, right? Do we practice medicine? We prescribe drugs. We have to look at the data. We have to be objective about things as well. Let's look at some case studies of horrendous labs on keto or Carnivore diets, because I have followed these patients at my practice over the past five years. Patients come to me, I give them the benefit of the doubt. I like, sure, you can be the number native to treat of one. You can be an individual. We can follow your case, and we can see maybe you're the, you're the exception to the rule here. This is a 60 year old male who tried a seven day water fast with some electrolytes to try to improve his lipids. He had horrendous lipids, his LDL particle was 3100 and it didn't go down with the lipid with the fast. His cholesterol didn't change his small LDL. It did improve a little bit. You'll have people on YouTube say small LDL is more important, yeah, maybe, but you still have a huge lipid traffic, and when you draw these patients' bloods, it's basically like butter, it's like melted butter in the vial. Sometimes the nurse is like, "What is this? Well, that's that's fat in their blood. So I no longer order the NMR Lipoprotein. I've ordered like hundreds, or it must be 1000 of these over the past six years of practicing this type of medicine, and it's just.. it's $27 It's not that much more. Apo B is five bucks, it's just a lot of information. And, as we'll find out later, the Apo B just tracks all of this a little bit better and easier. Here's another patient who's following YouTubers as well. Six year old, his primary Carnivore diet, a little bit of vegetables. He reports zero consumption of carbohydrates or sugar. He works out regularly.

Speaker 5  29:40
These are his labs, and apoB between 123 and 96 and A when C diabetic range, and a consistently elevated glucose, and you know, so you'll find again YouTubers, you know, just denying what's what you're seeing in front of us, which is disease, and these patients need to be treated, the diet really isn't moving the needle on these things, they need to be treated, they need to be optimized. This is another Carnivore, extraordinary lipid particle counts. I think this is a record, 3275 cholesterol, 381 I think that's a record for the practice. Had a Homocysteine of 17.5 very high, probably driven from the diet, took some vitamins, and it did lower the Homocysteine. Didn't do anything for the lipid particle risk. Here's Dr. Klitz. You can find him on YouTube. He has recently come out and said he's probably not so certain about the Carnivore diet now that he has three complete blockages in his coronary arteries. Homocysteine is a great example of a biomarker not being equal to a proven target treatment. There's been a couple studies out there that looked at, okay, maybe we can lower Homocysteine, because you hear that in a functional medicine, lower the Homocysteine, prevent cardiovascular disease, it might be just like a signal that there's something damaging happening in your arteries, so lowering it has never held up in a study as actually doing anything might be a signal that maybe it's bad, you should stop what you're doing, you should stop smoking, maybe you should change that Carnivore diet, maybe you should lower your lipids, because maybe there's some damage happening. Here is a signal that something bad is happening. Lipoprotein Little A, it's a new marker that we're hearing about on social media as well. It is a essentially a genetic marker it's found in certain populations greater than others, Southeast South Asian ancestry. When you have this elevated, you have a massively elevated risk of cardiac death and strokes. The higher number, the worse you are. If you have a low number, again, it doesn't exclude you from cardiovascular disease, but if you have it, you have to be especially aggressive with cardiac prevention strategies. Apo B is my favorite marker. Again, it's like six bucks with our lab rates. I think we should be ordering it standard for all patients, because more data is following us, and more societies are saying we should be following this. The more study followed 175,000 people, researchers found APOE was a stronger predictor of fatal heart attacks and strokes than standard LDL, and we're going to show you why that might be in a second. European guidelines and Canadian guidelines are favoring APO B, and APO B almost made our new guidelines in the American College of Cardiology as of 2026 It was there's a couple people that voted to make it like standard, but then enough people are like, ah, it's, it's just keep its LDL, because you know it's been around a long time. apoB, did you know that it's unaffected by fasting, and it's so practically logistically, when you have patients that may not understand what a fasting test is. I have patients that, I kid you not, they will put a spoonful of honey in their coffee, and put olive oil in their coffee, and then drink that, and go for a fasted blood work test. And then you're looking at these results, and you're like, "What's going on here? Did you actually fast? And they claim they're fasting, but they're actually not. So, you, you can see in the left that they're not fasting, especially if you've seen them over time. Aple B is not tricked by that. So, very practical. Another reason is the patient with the chronic diseases, the high triglycerides. So, when I had this patient, he drank four pack of tall boys nightly. Tall boys is like a Michelob Ultra this big. He came for a fasted blood work, swears he didn't fasting. His triglycerides were 803 and so this is a chronic alcoholic, and we had to come to Jesus meeting with him, and we said, 'We're gonna die, maybe tomorrow with pancreatitis. If you don't change things, you know, pancreatitis will kill you very quick. Triglycerides maybe takes a little longer. So apoB was not tricked. Look at his LDL C.

Speaker 5  33:39
It looked at goal 68 the studies that show that LDL is at goal, and patients still having problems. If you have a patient with chronic diseases, they're not eating well, they're having a lot of alcoholic drinks, their LDL may look at goal when their AP is still high, and they're laying down plaque. This is what we did for the patient, we got them into PICKLEBALL. Instead, we said, like, give up the alcohol, go play PICKLEBALL. That's what he's doing. He's living a much healthier lifestyle again. Triglycerides as a target to prevent cardiovascular disease have not really held up in any clinical studies. The Fibrates, they lowered triglycerides by 30 to 50% but they really didn't meet end points. Unfortunately, didn't really reduce heart attacks or heart events as much as we could have hoped, so treatments for lowering APO B again. Why would I take it? My EHR is elation, and you can click a button and it runs this thing called the prevent score, and the prevent score looks at my risk of a heart attack or stroke within the next 10 years, and it gave me a risk of, like, you know, one or two went to 2% Am I interested in a heart attack or stroke in the next 10 years at age 33 No, I want to live to 130 140 150 or beyond. We don't know how long we could potentially live with optimal anti-aging medicine strategies here that we're learning today, so I want to push the boundaries as far as I can. I don't care about the prevent score. I want to do as it says behind me: human performance and optimization. That is my goal here at the practice. PCS canine mutants - we have learned over the years that there are people who are unlucky and some people who are very lucky, and these are PS canine mutant mutants, live among us like an X-Men, right. Unfortunately, if you have a gain of function mutation, this means at birth and childhood you have extraordinary high LDL levels, above 190 LDL up to 500 So these poor kids, they'll develop a heart attack or a stroke by the time they're age 20 or 30, and it's not entirely super uncommon, actually, so we could potentially have maybe a couple patients here at the practice, even with that. I think I've seen some, and then there's the loss of function mutants, like my friend Andrew DiCaro, who live happily with an LDL of nine, so maybe that social media meme of the Sardinian who's out there tanning with a, with a tattoo, says that says tuto tuto pasa, like everything passed, he's never been to a doctor, he lives to 105 he smokes, he drinks, he feels great, maybe he's a mutant, right, think about that PCSK 9m inhibitors, the morbidity controversy. So, there's a new drug out path at these PSK nine inhibitors. You can inject them twice a month, and they will slash your LDL on APO B greatly. It's very easy to inject, and you can see this very quickly. But then you get the argument mortality hasn't been proven in these studies. Well, maybe there's a little bit, but the morbidity, that's where you need to focus. We're going to talk about morbidity and mortality, and why we should be focusing more on morbidity than mortality, so much. But the morbidity does go down when you lower the LDL and apoB, and these studies, the Odyssey and the FOURIER, these are new studies that prove that this drug is probably one of the greatest inventions in recent history, and it's very recent too. Let's look at statins. I know this is going to be a trigger point for some of you. Some of the statins is like it's like a rancid taste in your mouth. I know I was there. The cholesterol treatment trialist collaboration meta analysis of 170,000 participants, 26 randomized trials with key findings, 22% reduction in major vascular events for every one millimole, or 38 milligram LDL reduction, significant reductions to MI stroke and revascularization. So, why is this important? Why are we looking at morbidity? Let's take another look at the slide here, more, more on this. The heart protection study: 20,000 high-risk patients showed reductions in LMI stroke Revascularization. Jupiter trial, more studies, hope three trial. The list goes on and on.

Speaker 5  37:58
So we have perhaps 100 million cases prevented each year by estimates, 20 to 35% reduction in morbidity. So that is hospitalizations for heart failure, long term disability, loss of independence, angina, chest pain, heart attack, strokes. People don't always die of these things, but they have lifelong consequences. But let's talk about it from a functional medicine perspective. Let's repurpose Receva statin in functional medicine. What are the core mechanisms? Is it Suppresses hepatic cholesterol synthesis? So, if you got a bad genetic lottery and you're producing a lot of lipids, you can use this to suppress your production of it, but it also lowers CRP, and we always focus on that in anti-aging and functional medicine. Lowering CRP, we order IL-6. Your regular primary care is not ordering these medicines, these lab markers, but we are in functional medicine, and we're trying to lower these things. Rosuvastatin is a repurposed drug for lowering these two markers. It also reduces oxidative stress and it Stabilizes endothelial function. It increases nitric oxide production. We talked about that extensively at a forum. How to increase nitric oxide? There's beetroot, there's various products out there. What Rosuvastatin can be repurposed for this as well. Here is Dr. Halasa at my practice, doing a workout, and he will always talk about balancing immune responses, as Dr. Halas' famous line in functional medicine, we use this drug to help balance the immune response. We've been using it in long COVID. There were certain doctors out there doing long COVID clinics using Rosuva Statin. I know those, I saw these patients, I saw the, the, the notes from these doctors, that's what they were doing. They were Repurposing Versuvastatin for a new emerging disease, long COVID. We also can repurpose it for Lyme disease, the chronic inflammatory response syndromes. Let's look at another case study: 40-six year old male on Rosuvastatin, 20 milligrams daily, icosaved ethyl, which is the secret drug, two grams BID. You see a remarkable improvement in the AP from 140 to 54 a remarkable reduction in the LDL P. You can see from 2271 to 722 So you can see they, they follow very closely. If you have been doing this as long as I have, and you've measured 1000 NMR panels, like 1000 APO BS, you see them go hand in hand. You're like, okay, I'm just going to order the APP at this point and save the patients some money, right? And then you also see the CRP reduction from 3.38 to 0.65 maybe that's the biggest lever is from the receiver statin. Look at the LPP la two from 230 to 126 Now that might be the icosap and ethyl, let's have Empileple two, Essai, edgress, male, Emma, esta, essente, esperedele, erprremdele, es, instam, emprenot, es, ete, essa, e elevation without LDL, so what do you do? Do you target LPP a two or do you target the LDL? You target the LDL, you lower the LDL. Of course, you work on lifestyle factors, you give the patient pharmaceutical grade fish oil like Vespa, of course, but maybe the LDL lowering is enough. It goes up an ethyl, it reduces paddock the LDL triglyceride production, maybe not as powerful as other drugs like Rosuvastatin. It Stabilizes cell membrane, and now that's a pretty cool one, and it has direct anti-inflammatory actions. Whether it reduces triglycerides eminence, yes, it's hard to get insurance approval for it. They have to have a Triglyceride level above 500 is what the VA told me the other day. I was surprised by that Ezetimibe for brain and cardiac health. This is a new signal out there. You may have seen that populate in social media, because people who are vehement lipid DENIALIST and antistatin, anti-big pharma advocates are now saying, 'Oh, maybe I'm starting to take ezeti. I think the Nick Norowitz was one recently. He started taking cetimmide, not because it lowers LDL, but because it's protective against brain health. Now, why? Let's talk about a little bit of mechanism behind here. Zetamab disrupts the 1433 Hexokinase interaction. This interaction is implicated in protein aggregation in Alzheimer's disease. This disruption leads to reduced aggregation of pathological proteins, activation of Autophagy pathways. That's a big buzzword, or fasting Autophagy, right? Improved cellular resilience in multiple experimental models. So that's a low-cost drug, too. I mean, that's dirt cheap. Is that my..

Speaker 5  42:37
so there's a strong signal out there that it can reduce dementia. It has cognitive protection out there. This is based off a large observational cohort study, almost a million older adults, and you had a reduction, almost a seven fold reduction in risk for cognitive decline. So that's a cool reason to start it too. Let's talk about the mechanism. What is this that it might do? It's very simple. It inhibits cholesterol resorption in the gut, so it works on your intestines, your gut. Some people, they reabsorb their cholesterol too much. And this simple little drug, with almost.. I've never seen it give people a side effect. Get help fix this. Common critiques, we're going to get into all of them. All your questions. I know they're coming into chat right now. I'm going to answer them right now. Here we go. You need cholesterol for your brain. STATINS cause dementia. What about the CRP? The number needed to treat is 100 This proves that it doesn't decrease mortality. Low cholesterol increases mortality or causes cancer. What about XX supplement? And we get into some of the imaging. We're gonna review all of it right now. So, first, do STATINS cause dementia? I get this all the time, every time I talk to patients. I don't know how this became so ubiquitous. It doesn't actually, the opposite may be, in fact, the truth. Very large meta-analysis published in Nature in March 22 looked at 5 million participants and showed that STATINS were associated with a 20% decreased risk in dementia and a 32% risk reduction in Alzheimer's dementia, and it didn't seem to matter what Statin type was it was the Rosuvastatin or Pravastatin types, which are HYDROPHILIC, or the LIPOPHILIC ones, which is like the receiver, like the lovastatin or your SIMVASTATIN, so there's some theory that those lipid soluble ones get into the brain and you prefer to use a water cell. Well, I just use receivestatin because it's cheap, it's water soluble, it's well tolerated, so that's why I use it. Then we get into the number needed to treat of 100 there's no mortality benefit, and I will argue with people forever on X about this. They don't really understand what we are very good at in medicine, which is emergency medicine. So, we have a lot of when you work in the hospital, there's a lot of push to get patients with STEMI revascularized under 90 minutes, and there's a lot of push for this, there's a lot of criteria, so patients, they don't die that much when they get to the hospital, same for strokes, there's again, there's that, there's that window to treat with TPA, this get them that TPA really fast, so there's all these, there's all these quality measures in the hospital systems to keep people alive, but then the more important thing is people don't die from these things all the time, and so then they're left with morbidity. This is some of the morbidity you can face if you're not proactive about lip lowering. This is pitting edema from heart failure. In the middle there, left is long term PT post stroke, and on the right there you have clarification that's from plaquing the in the arteries leading to the legs, so you have chronic pain, you can't exercise. So what these people who don't practice primary care don't see is they don't have to see the consequences of these patients for years afterwards when they have a stroke or a heart attack, and you're managing their heart failure, managing their pitting edema in their legs, managing their imbalance, their frailty, their fall risk, their cognitive decline post stroke. They're out of breath, they can't walk for 1010 steps without having pain in the legs. This is all the consequences of it, and this is my issue with people who don't practice primary care and see patients long term, is they don't have to deal with the consequences of the stuff that we see online, and then we have N. STMI versus STEMI, and why mortality endpoints miss the big picture. So, STEMIs are actually a lot more rare than NSTEMIS. So, most people don't have a fatal heart attack. When they do, you don't hear about it, they're dead, right? And STEMIS, it's a little bit slower. I remember working in the ER and seeing this thing as an NSTMI.

Speaker 5  46:45
There's, yes, the pace is quick, but it's not as quick a pace as the STEMI. Right, and these patients with NST MES, they, they don't die, they don't die as you would with the STEMI. And so that's, that's the REA, that's the big problem I have when people shouldn't point to where people point to mortality as an end point. So we need to move away from that. We need to look at morbidity, because in anti-aging and functional medicine, what are we looking for? Yes, we're looking at preventing death, but we're looking at improving quality of life in our patients, and then making sure they live to 100 and they're still lifting weights and being very active. We don't want them to be bedridden post stroke for 20 years. Then we have cancer lowers the LDL, not the other way around. So active malignancy hijacks cholesterol. The alpha patient has been a lipid DENIALIST for a time, and you see their LDL has been 100 180 and 90, and then it's suddenly 40. They didn't take any drug, they didn't do anything different. You need to work the patient up for cancer. The cancer, for lack of a better term, eats up their cholesterol. So, the patients who die of cancer because they have low LDL, it's not because they have low LDL, it's because they had a cancer. And then we get into the whole big pharma is making a profit off of Stan, so I'm going to show you this. I took a picture of this today of the current prices for Rosuvastatin in McKesson. I calculated the price of five milligrams for Rosuvastatin. It comes down to 42 cents per month, 42 cents per month, not per day, per month. So I can order 1000 tablets of Rosuvastatin, five milligrams, for $13.90 The patient will be able to lower their LDL more effectively than Mark Houston's protocol. Mark Houston, love him, he's great. I love listening to his lectures, a for him, but his protocol costs $740 I calculated it just all right. Let's see what Mark uses protocol like RTR is still curcumin, vitamin C, magnesium, iodine, glycine, NAC, pure omega. What kind of patient has $740 to spend every month? I don't have them. Maybe you guys have. I sure don't. And so you can get the same effect with Rosuvastatin, or you could take all these things, and maybe all these things don't work that way. I mean, these drugs, they have variability, especially where you get them. Again, I saw this podcast with these two guys, the bold guy, and I don't know the other guy, the diary of the CEO, go guy, and it's click-based social media. They referenced the AMORIS study, which analyzed 44,000 Swedes initially. If they found higher total cholesterols in lung individuals, was later RETRACTED after review, and so they propagate stuff that was RETRACTED and just put it on social media and clickbait, and everybody shares it again, lower LDL C and AP, lower morbidity. We have to think about that. Reduce cardiovascular events by 15% reduce heart attacks, reduce stroke, reduce alcapress mortality also 10% Maybe not as strong as the morbidity, I'll grant it that, but the morbidity we need to be focusing on that in antiaging medicine. What about the CRP? Isn't that important? The CRP is probably just a signal that you have a lot of plaque accumulating in your arteries, causing inflammatory stroke response, or it's a symptom of Lyme, long COVID, a common cold. I can't tell you how many patients will get their blood work done when they have a cough or cold, and looking at their labs, their white blood cells jacked up, their CRP is so high. I'm like, what was going on? Yeah, I was sick when I got my labs tests. I'm like, okay, well, get them retested again. Don't go, don't go when you're sick. Don't you need CRP and insulin resistance to make plaque, no, that yellow stuff in the, in the arteries isn't CRP. CRP is a little inflammatory molecule, it's not a, it's not something that can obstruct a vessel. So, ApoB containing particles increase, then you have arterial wall retention, you have immune response, they send out macrophages, and then you get the plaque formation. The first step can happen before you even see an elevated CRP.

Speaker 5  51:08
A person can can develop carotid atherosclerosis with elevated APB as the primary abnormality, even if hsCRP is low, and insulin sensitivity is excellent. Again, go back to the innocent children with familial hypercholesterolemia. They're born, they're young, they're seemingly healthy, they just got a bad genetic lottery, and they have an LDL of 400 by the time they're age six, and they live with that for 20 years. They have a stroke by the time they're 30. I think a patient of mine told me the story runs. We don't know why this guy died, but he was in his bed, and he was going to go to a wedding. He was going to get married in Lake Como. He died suddenly, I think. He was age before age 30. This patient probably had familiar hypercholesterolemia. There's not a lot of things that kill a young, healthy guy about to get married before age 30. Nattokinase, the hype is loud, the evidence is not. And I got a bit black pilled by this thing, because you know, I allow my patients to experiment with things, and I say, well, you can be the number needed to treat of one, we can see if it can reverse your carotid artery. So I let this patient try this out, and he had carotid artery disease. He had a calcification one day, he got a stroke, he had a hemiplet, and luckily he survived it. He got to the hospital, amazing emergency medicine again. He didn't die of it, he got to the hospital in time, and they revascularized him, they opened him up. I have a suspicion that natural kinase potentially destabilize the plaque, sent a plaque to his brain and cause a stroke. So, I know it gets a lot of rage out there. There's studies being done on it, but they're not very long, they're not very great, and that one kind of stayed with me. Again, let's look at the power to really reverse plaque, and there's the reversal trial, and these were studies where they actually looked inside the artery, and they monitored plaque regression with optimal lipid lowering strategies. The reversal trial, the asteroid trial, the Saturn, they saw reversal of plaque with various treatment, whether it was high dose Rosuvastatin, whether it was PCS canine on top of Statin therapy, they saw reversal of plaque with optimal lipid lowering strategies, and that is so cool to see, and that really gave me new hope for anti-aging medicine, a new hope for patients with established plaque. If we could do optimal lipid lowering therapies, we could potentially reverse plaque, and that's probably the coolest thing, that is regenerative medicine. Guys, influence versus evidence. Next time you see these out there, LDL and April B don't matter, it's only insulin resistance. A lot of these people, they build businesses around supplements, books, courses, or Clickbait views. They generate revenue from YouTube clicks, and they're trying to convince people and get clicks, they have to be super sure about themselves, but their evidence is very abysmal. We have robust, we have essentially millions of patient years of study now with lipid lowering therapy on stents, and sure, cardiovascular disease is multifactorial. I'm not saying exercise doesn't matter, you need to exercise for other reasons, you need to, you need to eat a good diet for other reasons, but Apo B reduction, if you could take away anything with this lecture, is probably the single most important thing you can do. And then we have the imaging modalities and the fallacy of relying on the coronary artery calcium score, and I no longer order the coronary calcium score anymore for a couple reasons. One, it doesn't detect soft plaque. Two, it detects calcified, calcified plaque. And calcified plaque is probably a lot safer than soft plaque. When you have calcification of your plaque, it's less likely to rupture and go somewhere and kill you. People don't necessarily die of, like, a calcified artery, they'll die suddenly when that plaque goes travels somewhere and hits their brain, causes a stroke again. These imaging modalities, they may open up the conversation for patients. Cool, I like CT angiogram a little bit better. We're gonna be ordering one now. We should probably should be doing that. It looks at soft plaque a lot better, conduct recalcified plaque as well.

Speaker 5  55:26
And if you, if you want a patient who's really experimental and wants the radiation, you can see if optimal lip lowering therapy can reverse their plaque over the course of five to 10 years. That'd be a cool case study to see, but we have studies out there that show this is already happening, so we don't need to be never needed to treatment. Other vascular imaging, what it shows, what it doesn't. The CIMT, it's a great scan. We actually have a sonographer who comes here Fridays once a month and offers these scans for patients. You can see the carotid Intima media thickness, and that's basically ApoB particles getting stuck and your arteries narrowing, we have carotid artery ultrasound. A lot of endurances cover this, especially if you have hypertension, smoking history, echocardiogram. This is done routinely to assess wall motion, to assess the ejection fraction of patients who've maybe had a stroke, maybe they don't, their heart doesn't pump so well, or stroke, and MI, and their heart doesn't pump super well, and the abdominal aortic aneurysms, or can be screened and detected with an ultrasound, and but none of these exempt you from optimal lip blurring strategies if it's, if it's negative, right? We want to get the patients again if they have a negative carotid ultrasound at age 60, great, phenomenal. I want you to have that when you're 120 130 We may be seeing extraordinary long lifespans here. It seems like over the course of human history, our lifespan is just keeping any longer. Why? Because of advancements in medical technology and sanitation, and so forth. Again, livid optimization to reverse and halt plaque. This is Dr. Alo. If you want more of this information, he has a great YouTube channel where you can attend his grand rounds every Monday night at 9pm He has a great course on this. You can, you can join, you can talk about this, you can talk case studies. You have plaque regression trials, GLAC GOF, asteroids, Saturn, intensive lowering strategies of AP below 65 consistently shows plaque regression stabilization and thicker fibrous end caps, right? That means less likely to rupture and go somewhere else. Lower ApoB equals more benefit, even after adjusting LDL. Causal proof, we have massive Mendelian Randomization studies. We have that familiar hypercholesterolemia. Again, if you're, if you're going, looking at this from a functional medicine perspective, we look at a lot of like mechanism of action, right? Look at the children with familiar hypercholesterol, look at their plaque progression, look at their early deaths. That should be enough for those of you in the chat who like mechanism of action zealots, like Dr. Halassa. Here again, the evidence is clear: APOP lowering, it doesn't matter if you're lean and fit like myself, it doesn't protect you, it doesn't exempt you from getting a heart attack or stroke. Men need to be a lot more aggressive than women with this, because we don't have estrogen to protect us from this, right? So early on, we can start developing and layering down plaque, because we don't have the PSC canine inhibition from estrogen. My sister, for example, high estrogen, she has had less APO B exposure at her HL than I have, because I've had higher APO B due to less estrogen exposure. Theoretically, at least, this is the end of my lecture. Here's some you want to hear me talk next. It's going to be in Italy, in Verona. We're all going to that. Can't wait for that one. All right, Clearfield, let me have it.

Speaker 6  58:54
Well, I have something to say.

Speaker 5  58:56
I'm sure you do.

Speaker 6  58:57
So I hear you saying you see the high fat, and that is disease. I see disease, but you have tests to do if somebody does not have plaque. If they do not have thickening, swears the disease if the imaging that one can do doesn't, doesn't show that the higher fat levels, which you say is disease, there's no plaque.

Speaker 5  59:28
All right, it depends what imaging modality. So, a CACS that's normal, it doesn't exempt you. You can still have soft plaque if you have a CT angiogram, that's a little bit better, but we want to keep you there. We want you to live to 120 150 We don't want you to have a stroke then you

Speaker 6  59:47
want that, but this is assuming that the fat is causing the disease. Yes, that has been proven. These, these tests of of 10s of 1000s of people, I mean, your grandmother, she took a Statin, and she had severe dementia afterwards. Well,

Speaker 5  1:00:07
grandmother had diabetes, she had insulin resistance, and

Speaker 6  1:00:10
tons of inflammation. He

Speaker 5  1:00:12
didn't exercise, he ate junk,

Speaker 7  1:00:14
right?

Speaker 5  1:00:15
She probably wasn't also on optimal lipid lowering therapies. She back then, they didn't treat to these numbers, what we're doing here is actually functional medicine. When I see CARDIOLOGISTS here in the community, I had a follow-up yesterday with a patient. Patient has CHS. The LDL was 190 I said, 'What did your cardiologist say? He was like, 'Well, you could exercise and eat a little bit better. This patient already eats well. He exercises four times a week, and the CARDIOLOGISTS told him 190 is fine, even though this patient has established cardiovascular disease. So, if I'm

Speaker 6  1:00:48
agreeing with you there, he has established disease. Okay, we've got to try something else, but if they do not, I'm not sure. Well, my

Speaker 5  1:00:57
point is that no one is doing this type of medicine. You guys here that learn this lecture tonight, you can go out there and start implementing this, because I guarantee you primary cares aren't doing this, CARDIOLOGISTS aren't even doing this. So, who else is going to do optimal lipid lowering therapy? Is it if it isn't anti-aging and functional medicine?

Speaker 7  1:01:15
May I offer some insight?

Speaker 5  1:01:17
Yes,

Speaker 7  1:01:18
I started my first lipid clinic in 2000 and we saw people lose memory on a torva Statin. I learned later why, if you run well, there are five labs you used to have it. The only one that remains that carries it is the Boston Heart Diagnostics. If you drive the desmostrol low, not everybody's going to lose their memory, but the April E fours and the people that are vulnerable will. April B can't feed the brain cells with cholesterol like the rest of the body. If you dampen the test, most are all too low, it corps them. I've got at least 10, I've removed the Statin and their memory return. I'd rather do that than wait until it's permanent. It is reversible to remove the Statin, and you don't have to use a Statin, because once you titrate them beyond the lowest dose, you've lost all the horsepower, and you've raised PCS k9 which clearly is not a good idea.

Speaker 5  1:02:18
Right? Yeah, you don't always have to use STATINS. There's some patients that will have brain fog, they will have mouth lakes from stents, and I quickly switch them off stance to alternatives out there, and we have now great alternatives,

Speaker 7  1:02:28
right? And quite honestly, I don't have a lot of rich patients, so I was very grateful he passed January last year, but LM Pastelli took a lot of time when I saw him at lectures and on the phone and over email, showed me how to use niacin. Now I know that's going to cause it, you know, what storm

Speaker 5  1:02:51
niacin hasn't been proven to actually lower morbidity mortality.

Speaker 7  1:02:56
We can do the soft line, but it already proves itself. CARDIOLOGISTS love to kick it to the curb, but you got Robert Saperico, Dr. Keen, and you've got John Guyton. You want me to go on? They all still use it, and they all defended it. I mean, I

Speaker 5  1:03:13
tried, I tried niacin. I think it's a poison. It made me blow up like a tomato every time I tried it,

Speaker 7  1:03:18
because some amateur showed you how to use it. I had to learn how to use it, because it was a mandate, and we stopped the Statin on the third of our patients. We had no heart attacks for five years, and all the angina patients were symptom-free within three months. Exactly what Castelli told me would happen. And the thing is, it's not easy. You don't just cut a script and walk away. You have to spend an hour with them, which nobody has anymore. But if you talk to the patient, explain how to circumvent the side effect, how to get rid of the side effect. After two weeks, it tactical axes down, the frequency is further apart, and the intensity drops. I have 90% of everybody I started on stat on niacin still on it, and at last count was 5000 people. It's a miracle drug. It's good for the brain. It's the number one drug out of 150 FDA-approved medications for fatty liver that just come out last year. It's shrinking glioblastomas in Alberta, Canada. You want me to go on? I know I like,

Speaker 5  1:04:25
I like niacin. I'm not, I'm not entirely against. I mean, I'm just telling you, I had a reaction

Speaker 8  1:04:29
to

Speaker 7  1:04:30
niacin. I could get you on niacin like that. You just, I try to take

Speaker 5  1:04:35
niacin is like the poor man's version of nicotinemide riboside. I like true ninja, and I take that every day

Speaker 7  1:04:41
makes about five times as much NAD with a half a gram of any of the NAD supplements. Just look at Lusk Gardens' video on he's a Brigham. The point is it's a red-headed stepchild, no pun intended, and people love to kick it around, but here's my, my whole short quote on niacin. I have kids, I don't want them to drown, so I send them for swimming lessons. I go in one day, I get out of work early, and I befriend the swimming instructor, and I say, "Hey, you're doing a nice job here, will you demonstrate the side stroke? And he looks at me kind of arrogant and matter-of-factly. Well, I just teach people how to swim. I really don't know how to swim myself. That's niacin. There's very few people left that know how to swim. It's really worth the trouble. I'd love to convince you of that, because if you started at the wrong dose, didn't know how to get rid of the hot flash, weren't taking with food, you'll do everything they did wrong in the AIM Hide HPS to Thrive, and Cleveland Clinic didn't even use niacin. The very thing they blame niacin for was proven to be beneficial six months before in a nephrology journal. Two py and four py are in junk food, you're talking about metabolic people who are metabolic because they eat junk food, and they didn't even use niacin. It's anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and anti-fibrotic. I reverse kidney disease with it. I'm published. It actually works.

Speaker 5  1:06:17
Yeah. Okay. Dr. Clearfield

Speaker 4  1:06:21
sounds like we need another demonstration with me. This is amazing lecture, by the way. Fantastic job. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:30
Thank you. Okay, want to go to the chat there, Steve, I let's see, niacin one gram tid lowers apo be more than PCSK nines from Steven McConnell. Okay, I see that

Speaker 7  1:06:53
every day.

Speaker 9  1:06:55
Okay,

Speaker 7  1:06:56
it's a miracle drug.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:58
What, what do you do 90% of the patients who show up at my office, the first thing they say when I show them their cholesterol, I'm not taking any, any cholesterol pills, that's why I'm here. What do you say to those people? Hey, send them my lecture. I

Speaker 7  1:07:11
say to them, do you want to take something natural, and my favorite things, particularly with LPA, my wife's came down 75% um and that's a great way to practice with niacin. Take an LP little a patient and be patient, don't titrate them quickly, take time, educate them, hold their hand for a few weeks, and when you finally get them up to three grams a day, it beats the crap on anything else for LP little A, because there's nothing available now, and the LP little A drugs don't even lower the entire particle, they just remove the ability to synthesize little A and niacin with my wife was only 40% lower 11 years ago, then it was 63% lower, now it's 75% lower, it's fatiguing the expression of the APOA gene, and I didn't really understand that, but my mentors all told me to be patient, just get them on the niacin. The rest of the lipid panel looks amazing. It's still the only monotherapy that moves every Lipoprotein in the right direction, and it does have outcomes data, and if you bought into AIM high HPS to thrive, you needed to talk to me offline, because it's all BS. They did everything wrong. I mean, John Geic knew, so is Sampirico, so does Dr. Zemicus. He's the smartest guy in LP Little A. He's been using niacin with or without a PCSK nine inhibitor for years, he's got his name on a patent for one of the new drugs, but you're going to still have April B there without an April A. Now you're going to need a second or a third drug, and if you don't have insurance, that's people who get left out. I deal with a lot of people without insurance, they can afford niacin, it's five bucks a month, it just takes a few weeks to get them on board, and you can't really close them till you show value. Well, we'll test it out again.

Speaker 5  1:09:07
I'm not against patients testing it out, but we have to be objective. If it actually does anything,

Speaker 6  1:09:11
I mean, you

Speaker 5  1:09:13
can try

Bill Clearfield  1:09:14
the

Speaker 7  1:09:15
hats. 90% relative risk reduction number needed to treat was the lowest one ever, less than four. Yeah, they use SIMVASTATIN at 13 and a half milligrams, which is smart, because that's where all the apo be reduction is, in the lowest dose, right? You have to look at the old niacin trials closely to realize you're witnessing a miracle. People love to say, 'Oh, coronary drug projects, an old trial doesn't mean anything, that's bullshit. This is my language. Stop by with patients, they can

Speaker 5  1:09:48
get to ApoB goal any way they can, you know. I'm all for it. You know,

Speaker 7  1:09:52
I'm all for anything that works, but if they can't afford it or they don't have insurance, they have to do something else. And I always check their basal temperature, so make them do five grow to auto bars. If they're less than 97.8 I get them undesiccated way better than synthetic. And I found a place in New Zealand, they don't even need a prescription. It drives down LP little a 32% that's second only to niacin, and it's a PCS canine inhibitor, so it's berberine, but it's mild, and there's tricky ways to do it, and it takes a lot of effort, but that's why I spend half my time reading and not just trying to make money, because there's always something in the literature out there, and I have a million friends that feed my brain, thankfully, and some of them were wonderful people. I really was upset when Dr. Castelli passed away, because he was a huge niacin advocate. He told me he only did lectures for the drug companies, so he had an opportunity to get his message out there, which was 10 minutes at the beginning, all on niacin, and I love watching the CARDIOLOGISTS just fringe, and you know, I know you respect Dr. Alo, but I get into it with him every day. I'm sorry, Steven, I think we, we

Speaker 2  1:11:14
definitely need you on board here, and we, we finally, we kind of got the niacin going, so I think we book you there. Yep, let's go in there.

Speaker 7  1:11:28
Really worth it's really worth using. It just takes a while.

Speaker 2  1:11:31
Yeah, definitely. But we're gonna get you on board for sure. You have a lot of knowledge there.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:35
Three months, september 1, Steven.

Speaker 4  1:11:39
We're gonna start a new frat game with you every time you see nice, and we have to do a shot, and so you can hang well.

Speaker 7  1:11:44
That's sort of my middle name, but you're booked already. You're

Bill Clearfield  1:11:48
already booked, Steven.

Speaker 2  1:11:50
Let's give us some suspense here. Don't, don't spill all the beans. Yeah, first you're a

Speaker 7  1:11:57
passionate guy. I'm sorry, you're in the

Speaker 1  1:12:01
right group, you're in the right group. All right,

Speaker 2  1:12:03
Victor, let's get in. Yeah, yeah. And the question for you,

Bill Clearfield  1:12:06
okay? Victor,

Speaker 9  1:12:08
yes. Hear me or no?

Speaker 5  1:12:09
Yes,

Speaker 7  1:12:10
you can hear me.

Speaker 9  1:12:13
Okay, great. You know what, I just wanted to weigh in and advocate for what Steven was saying, because it's nice and it's been around a long time. How many of you guys know about that book? It was written by L. Ron Hubbard in the 60s, called Clear Body Care. Yes, and he wrote a detoxification protocol using high dose niacin, and I actually did that protocol way back with 15 years ago, and you start getting side effects when you take it, you get the flushing and the burning and the tingling, like 500 milligrams, you go up to a gram and you get the symptoms, and then you start ramping it up slowly, exactly what Stephen was saying, and you go up to two grand, three grand, and all the side effects go away, and it's because your body starts to be sensitized to it, and you're cleaning out toxins, and he's, he's absolutely right, and it's not, it's not poisoning your body, it's actually cleaning out your liver and improving your, you know, a lot of exactly what Stephen was saying, that it has a lot of anti-inflammatory properties and it's regulating a lot of things with your liver. I'm not going to claim it's

Speaker 7  1:13:29
easy. It was horrible the first few months I used it, and then Castelli bailed me out. I didn't figure it out. He invented the wheel, not me. And as soon as I did what he told me to start them at 50 a meal, that's like nothing, and then build it up, and it's more disciplined than the patients are used to doing, but depending on the patient, if you can get their psyche focused on the problem, they'll realize, oh geez, that's five bucks a month, the side effects not forever goes away, usually within two weeks to a month, and the closer, and I started to say this earlier, I got distracted, is when you show them the second panel of lab results, I mean it raises growth hormone, which normalizes deiodinase, so people that aren't really shifting their t4 to t3 they do. They saw that in the class trial, where they did all these cholesterol niacin studies. Brilliant stuff. The woman who spearheaded that hemp health cash, and she passed away, and I was all my heroes are dying, but I learned a lot listening to them. I couldn't understand for years why they was seeing all these observations, and so I just kept reading up on it. Well, the DOD means aren't always fully functional, particularly fat people, diabetics, kidney patients, and when I realized niacin was antiprotein, and it raises the GFR, lowers PTH, it lowers FGF 23 What else do you need to know? You

Speaker 5  1:15:13
have any others for me?

Bill Clearfield  1:15:16
Pardon

Speaker 4  1:15:17
me, me,

Speaker 5  1:15:18
Johnny,

Speaker 4  1:15:19
and what is the youngest age that you would start somebody on? Reserve a son

Speaker 5  1:15:24
when it's the apo be is elevated. I mean, the moment you have elevated apo be, you're laying down plaque, and it's the time under the curve of apo be exposure that determines the plaque. So if you have a 16 year old and I have them and their apo be is 130 yeah, sure, you try to get their lifestyle change because you know theoretically a 16 year old should be able to change it around, if it doesn't, you start them on the therapy because you don't want them to end up with a heart attack by the time they're age 50, because I had a case like this the other day, he was fat, he was about 15 years old, his dad died of an MI at age 40, the child came to me, he obese, his apo bee was about 130 his triglycerides were about 200 and I said, I took it from straight, I said, You're at your midlife right now, you could, you could die like your dad did at age 40, or you could make some serious changes right now, maybe you can have a long life, and I think I scared the child enough, and he started exercising. He got to the gym, and he left the practice, so I never found out what actually happened to him, but he would be a candidate for lipid lowering therapy just based off his genetic risks. There,

Speaker 4  1:16:35
yeah, my brother has the familiar. I didn't inherit it, but it's interesting to see exactly what you're talking about, because I'll pull PRF, or I used to want him, and it would just be like a cloudy, yet like a white.. it looks like almost like Crisco, yeah, thrombotic component of like a glycolic calics that's not intact, and then viruses and things and thrombotic risk, and it's a nasty wicked storm. Yeah, well, thank

Speaker 1  1:16:57
you for your

Speaker 4  1:16:58
help.

Speaker 5  1:16:58
We do family practice here, so I'll test all kids, if I can get them in early enough. I'll do their lipid panel, I'll check their ApoB. Depends if they want to do it age nine. Let's do it. I mean, we might. The studies show that if you have 1000 people, maybe five of them are familiar hypercholesterolemia carriers, and so capture them early, and you can keep them from having a heart attack by that time they're age 40 or 50.

Speaker 4  1:17:23
Where's your practice in Florida?

Speaker 5  1:17:25
Florida. Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:17:26
which part

Speaker 5  1:17:27
we're in? A Melbourne.

Speaker 4  1:17:29
Nice. Okay, cool. I might be sending some people your way. Thank

Speaker 2  1:17:34
you, Dr. James. Go ahead.

Speaker 8  1:17:39
Okay. Thanks. Terrific, terrific presentation, and a little bit out of my wheelhouse, so I'm just amazed at what you're saying. I haven't really looked in depth at this topic in quite a while. I think I know what the answer is, so I'm going to ask it anyway.

Speaker 5  1:17:57
Yeah, yeah, I hear you. You're good.

Speaker 8  1:18:02
Can you hear me?

Speaker 5  1:18:02
Yeah, okay, you're good.

Speaker 8  1:18:04
Okay. Have you looked at any classic traditional or indigenous medicinal approaches to the issue of the ApoB?

Speaker 5  1:18:15
Yes, yes, I've tried. I've led patients to experiment with everything. Mom's a huge experimenter. She's tried everything under the sun. She's done TCM. She's done..

Speaker 6  1:18:25
I have no plaque. I might have some elevated levels, but I have no.. you

Speaker 5  1:18:29
have elevated levels, and I think I inherited that from you. Thank you very much.

Speaker 6  1:18:34
I eat omega three rich fish all the time.

Speaker 5  1:18:37
She eats omega three rich fish. She's done Chinese medicine, acupuncture. She's done herbals, like all of these stuff. She went to Dr. Ho with the energy healing in Orlando. We done all of that stuff.

Speaker 8  1:18:48
What about Ayurveda? I'm an Ayurvedic physician, and the ApoB problem, lipid, high cholesterol is actually a diagnosable condition and Ayurvedic medicine with standardized protocols, and there's actually a lot of research into it, both using traditional medicine formulas, plus more, if you will, comprehensive, holistic, or integrative approaches. That's actually a thing that's that's going on right now. I don't know, not in TCM. I'm not as familiar, but I am very familiar with the Ayurveda, and that's why I bring it up.

Speaker 6  1:19:33
You have another presentation,

Speaker 5  1:19:34
I think he did last week.

Speaker 6  1:19:36
Oh yeah, yeah, the Ayurvedic.. yeah, he

Speaker 5  1:19:39
was here last week, I think. Yes, yes. Okay,

Speaker 8  1:19:43
so the answer then would be pending. Not so much on the Ayurveda side.

Speaker 5  1:19:51
We'll wait for that lecture.

Speaker 8  1:19:53
Okay, I'll try and put one together on it. Supports everything I know supports your presentation, and what you were saying. I see that the Ayurveda traditional medicine route, plus more modern, innovative formulations, as being another approach trying to get to the same place, because the emphasis seems to me, and the Indian research, and the research from Thailand, they're trying to quantify the same things that you're addressing.

Speaker 5  1:20:33
Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of Indian CARDIOLOGISTS out there, they seem to all go into cardiology. I know a couple, they do conventional stuff, they put a lot of stints in people, they all know,

Speaker 7  1:20:44
they all know they're LP Little A, too, they might not get it, but they know, they know that the Southeast Asians,

Speaker 5  1:20:50
they all have it, yeah, they all seem to have

Speaker 7  1:20:52
African Americans, they've got probably with LP Little A, and it's frightening, but it is, and they die

Speaker 5  1:20:59
early,

Speaker 7  1:21:01
yeah, if you get to them before that, you can save them, but you know, you go to dialysis unit, it's like two thirds are African American,

Speaker 5  1:21:10
yep,

Speaker 7  1:21:10
and I get a lot of referral from Atlanta, and I actually enjoy working with the African American population, because I like a challenge, and they got all the stuff, but most of the ones from Atlanta are very compliant. They're polite. They pay me on time. That's always nice. Yeah, they're nice people.

Speaker 2  1:21:33
Well, you, you mentioned about Asians. I got it. So, my LP level A is high, and I've been trying to lower it down, I cannot. Niacin is the only one that maintains me. I'm pretty happy to maintain it, or lower it down to like 10 points, 20 points, but it's just going to fluctuate as elevated, so

Speaker 7  1:21:52
75% Yeah, that's why I want, we want you

Speaker 2  1:21:55
in this forum. So let's put you on the books, but again, what's your

Speaker 5  1:22:00
ApoB, Melvin

Speaker 2  1:22:02
AP? I think it's 90. It's around the 90.

Speaker 5  1:22:06
You got to get it.

Speaker 2  1:22:07
I know that's why. Well, I just wanted to punch in there because you mentioned about Asians, and we.. there's a lot of us having this issue. Yeah, you got to be super

Speaker 5  1:22:17
aggressive if you have an elevated LPA. I mean, I would.. I would take that pretty seriously.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:21
Yeah, right. And I

Speaker 7  1:22:22
would, I wouldn't, I wouldn't use a Statin. Dr. Khan, Dr. Zemicus is a bunch of them, and it's kind of like a cult, I guess, or a club. We're all like, you know, you don't want to give them a Statin because it goes way up. They say, 'Oh, 20% that's a randomized trial where only a quarter of them had it. Well, guess what? When you see it go up 200 animals, that ought to wake somebody up. All you got to do is get rid of the Statin, then

Bill Clearfield  1:22:55
write

Speaker 7  1:22:55
niacin, check the thyroid status. If you want to use a Statin, use red yeast rice, it'll lower 23% That's the only Statin that actually lowers it, and isn't that low?

Speaker 5  1:23:08
Statin

Speaker 7  1:23:09
depends on where you got the red use rice, but it's about 1% lovastatin, and I still haven't figured out what's in there that lowers the LPLA, but it isn't the lovastatin.

Speaker 5  1:23:19
Well, Melvin, try to get your ApoB below 40.

Speaker 2  1:23:23
Oh, yeah, definitely working, working, working hard, working hard. I'll keep you posted on that one.

Speaker 5  1:23:29
All right,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:32
okay. There's a question in the, in the chat here. Stephan, is low total cholesterol bad? Dr. Hansen says, as she's seen studies with totals below 160 there's more risk of depression.

Speaker 7  1:23:48
It's the dismost rule. It's desmospheric. I research it extensively, and even though I'm not friends with Day Spring, we both worked at the same lab. He's right about it, that the precursors are synthesized in every cell in the body. Apo B serves every cell in the body except the brain. It can't get through the blood-brain barrier, so you suppress desmosterol. Lethosterol doesn't have the same data, but as most role does, and when you drive it down, there's a functional loss in the brain, it's reversible, I think, up to about five years. If they stay on the Statin longer than that, you probably have permanent damage. It's not all theoretical, there's plenty of data there. I have a Dropbox folder just on that.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:38
Okay. Next question is, what's the youngest age you would treat someone with Ruvastatin,

Speaker 4  1:24:43
that was me. He answered it. Oh yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:24:45
you did. Okay, okay. How about you had asked about arterial cell? Did he answer that one too?

Speaker 5  1:24:54
Yeah, I mean, I take it, actually not against it. I think it might help with the glycocalyx. So I'll take all the help, the help I can get. It doesn't reduce Apo B, though. I've at least in myself, I've not seen that happen.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:08
Okay. How about discuss a discussion of LP? Little A,

Speaker 5  1:25:12
yeah, we talked about that. Melvin's got it. Got to be more proactive because he has

Bill Clearfield  1:25:18
it. Okay,

Speaker 6  1:25:19
I see here. I'm just going

Bill Clearfield  1:25:20
through the chat here, Doctor Renario. Got anything online?

Speaker 2  1:25:24
Yeah, well, a comment caught my attention here. That's from your wife, Logan, and she mentioned about even conventional practice guidelines. Now recommend a lipid panel in pediatrics, specifically, even as early as eight, you can definitely get that lipid panel go in and see what the risk factors of these children are, and this is actually being seen. It's getting high, it's getting earlier and earlier in childhood, but this is actually from American Pediatrics. But I'm assuming I'm going to see this trend getting lower and lower as we get exposed to all of these types of food that we eat, all the sedentary activities, and as we get involved with a lot of technology,

Speaker 4  1:26:08
epigenetics is a big thing, I think. Otherwise, what's.. oh,

Speaker 7  1:26:10
yeah, I completely agree with it. I had a woman come to me, she'd been to an endocrinologist, a lipidologist was afraid to treat her, so she referred to me five doctors, and they all gave her horrible answers. I won't even repeat them. Oh, you can't treat kids well. They come to me. The seven year old daughter had Coke bottles for glasses, clearly something pathological. It attacked her retina. The three year old had just had a stroke. The little boy, I had a hard time keeping it together, but I did, and we ran a health diagnostic laboratory panel, high LP little A, high xenosterols, you know, setosterol and all that, and they had an interesting thyroid derangement, probably just post a modest, and the father, I don't know what the religion was, but he didn't believe we should do anything, had put me in a real position, but she was on Medicaid, that's back when they waived the no balance bill that disappeared, but we got them all tested. The mother was the same as the kids, and sometimes I feel a little helpless. That was one of those times, and I carry that with me, because I often wonder how those kids are doing, but they didn't want to test anything, they didn't want to treat anything. What's the correct answer? I don't know. I usually pray when something like that happens. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:27:58
yeah. So, well, more on my end, it's more of a, I guess, a comment that they're now surprised, and this is actually true. Stefan's right, Apo B is now preferred over NMR LipoProfile, so that's being preached in any IFM A for M lecture that you will hear, and there's 2026 studies about it, but the only thing that you'll miss, just to point that out, is, of course, your HDL sizes as well, and you can have all these stealths, meaning above 70 or 80, and even the lower ones, for sure, we know about that, but again, it's definitely bang for your buck if your patient's saving money and trying to just be more accurate about it, of course, ApoB is definitely one of your go-to. I

Speaker 7  1:28:42
like, I like the economy of April B, not just finance. You're getting a narrow band with LP, LDL P, and you know they break it all down, but the thing is, the VLDL series, and even the Kylo Microns, the remnants are ATHEROGENIC, and there's an April B on every one of them, so I know all of them, and since I never see somebody without insulin resistance, I assume they got small dense. I like that measurement, but if I can get them to just move the POSTPRANDIAL glucose closer to normal and get them on something that doesn't leave small dense particles behind, like a Statin, you know, fish oil is good, anything that treats glucose will help. Nice is great. Want to get rid of small dense particles. The guy to talk to about that is Ronald Kraus out west. I haven't talked to him in a long time, but he's sort of the king of small dense LDL, which is really small dense April B, but that's a nasty particle. It is not insignificant in light of LP, little N, aple B, because it carries way more oxidation. It's small enough to go through the tight junctions, and most of the oxidation inflammation is on the small dense particles. The king of that is LPLA. It carries PCSK nine, it carries oxidized phospholipids, it carries LPPLA two. I mean it's the mother, because the rest of the ApoB particles have a little bit here and there, and those old assays that were oxidized LDL, that's obsolete, it's oxidized phospholipids. When you remove the LP little a, it drops like a rock, and the only drug that lowers oxidized phospholipids is niacin.

Speaker 5  1:30:38
Go ahead, Lori.

Speaker 10  1:30:40
Yeah, I have a question. So, this is both for my patients and me personally, you know. 57 years old, exercise, diet, end up with the high LDL, get the AP B, that's elevated as well, get the CAC score that's positive. Now I'm faced with the decision, do I start, you know, Statin or not, and so I'm confused myself, right? So now I'm looking at, you know, open evidence. Yes, clearly nice, and lowers LDL, April B, but it looks like it - there's mixed evidence about whether it actually decreases end points, like MIS and stroke that it was taken off also for all right so no i would like so i just let me finish my question please no it clearly does you know decrease in health with these cholesterol however you know what are the end points and then it also has its side effects, as you know, in the side effect profile may be just as bad or as the stat, and so even for myself I'm confused on which, which route to take, so I would love, like, any

Speaker 7  1:31:54
clarify that, Stephen, actually I

Speaker 10  1:31:58
actually prefer like any research, or if you want to share that in chat, the links to any research on what the outcome data is, so I could make my own inform. Contact

Speaker 7  1:32:08
me. The first time they ever reduced heart attack and stroke was as niacin, high dose low dose estrogen, low fibrate, dyroxine, niacin, and placebo. Well, obviously, in men, you don't give mestrogen. The D thyroxine caused a lot of problems. They kept flow fibrate going niacin in the placebo. Like I'm seeing

Speaker 10  1:32:29
niacin also raises your risk of diabetes and blood, you know that's

Speaker 7  1:32:33
bullshit. Excuse my land. All right. Well, I mean, this

Speaker 10  1:32:36
is what's in the evidence. So, I, how about you? Give us the

Speaker 5  1:32:39
lecture.

Speaker 7  1:32:39
I'll show you everything, yeah. Give us the lecture at

Speaker 5  1:32:42
some point, but I'll answer. I got him

Bill Clearfield  1:32:44
september 1. I got him, I got him, I got him booked already.

Speaker 5  1:32:47
Let's say, even for september 1, I'll give you it very simply. You just skip the coronary artery calcium score, just follow the ApoB B. Just make your life simple. Like, I tried all this stuff, I tried to make it super complicated on myself. I just hurt my brain. Just, it's all the evidence shows. If you can lower the ApoB, you can reverse plaque, you can stop it from progressing. You get the ApoB below 60 if they have risk factors, you get it below 40 if they have established cardiovascular disease. It's that simple.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:15
Okay,

Speaker 10  1:33:16
it's just whether you use a Statin or a niacin. Or

Speaker 7  1:33:20
contact me, I'll give you all the data. It's in a Dropbox folder. There's like 20 studies across 30 years, and as far as this lecture

Speaker 5  1:33:29
goes, it is Rosuvastatin, five milligrams, the most effectiveness that lowering ApoB is gonna, you're gonna find that with the lower doses of Rosuvastatin. And then you can add on a therapy like EZETIMIBE and see how far you can go with these cheap medicines. It costs less than 50 cents a month for Rosuvastatin, less than 50 cents a month. I ended up

Speaker 10  1:33:49
opting to go on the Statin, I mean, looking at the evidence, but you know it's, it's so.. I applaud you for doing this. It's a controversial issue, no matter what. One side's going to fight against the other people are pretty passionate about it, and then it just leaves us all in the middle, confused, quite frankly.

Speaker 5  1:34:08
That's why I did this lecture to hopefully, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:11
that's that's the whole idea, that's why we're here. Yeah, but I don't know if I'm leaving any clear what you're thinking about,

Speaker 10  1:34:21
right? And that's what we're all doing, you know, not just going.. it's,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:25
you know, looking at.. if.. if you.. the folks you see are typical ones that I see. I mean, everyone who comes in here, you know, it's a knee-jerk reaction, no STATINS, nothing ever. I just had..

Speaker 10  1:34:37
I just had this conversation with a patient today, her CRP is 12, she's her LDL is two, almost 200 April B is elevated, Homocysteine is elevated, and she's like, 'I'm not going on Statin, and I'm like, 'Okay, but we got to have this conversation, and I have to respect their, their, you know, fears and their wishes, you know, the whole thing with the cognitive function, you know, I'm just looking at the niacin can also cause some of this, so it's a controversial issue, and it's really getting more, more controversial as more and more social media is coming out, right? And

Speaker 7  1:35:19
look at the actual, exactly,

Speaker 10  1:35:21
that's why I want to read your data. I want to read your data, so please do send it.

Speaker 7  1:35:26
Nice, and helps forestall dementia, Alzheimer's, memory. Yep, I want it. Yeah,

Speaker 10  1:35:33
I'd love to see that. I'll

Speaker 7  1:35:34
show you all the data. All right, I'm gonna have to do a lot of reading.

Speaker 10  1:35:38
No, that's fine. There's a lot of data. I got,

Bill Clearfield  1:35:41
I got you on for, I got you on for september 1.

Speaker 5  1:35:46
Are you gonna start, uh, doing this sort of medicine? I optimizing APB in these folks, I'd like to see if your theory is right. If you optimize FSH with ESTRADIOL therapy, I'd like to see some case days on your end, see if this ESTRADIOL can maybe lower it AP. I mean,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:04
you talking to me?

Speaker 5  1:36:05
Yeah, I'm saying, if you dose ESTRADIOL to optimal levels, as you're doing

Bill Clearfield  1:36:09
right, will you

Speaker 5  1:36:10
see reduction of APO B? I'd like to see those cases.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:13
All right, you're wrong. All

Speaker 5  1:36:15
right,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:16
all right, okay, okay. How about

Speaker 1  1:36:20
Dr. With it? All started with

Bill Clearfield  1:36:21
me. Stefan did doctors think it

Speaker 1  1:36:25
here. I think, well, you can think.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:26
Actually, I actually didn't start with me. I heard this from Lindsey Bergson. Remember, she was on that one night.

Speaker 5  1:36:32
Oh, she's great.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:33
Yeah, yeah. Ask her if she

Speaker 5  1:36:36
does ApoB following at her practice.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:38
I will, I will ask her. So,

Speaker 2  1:36:41
I don't think she can prescribe, right? She's a

Bill Clearfield  1:36:44
chirop, she's a natural car. I thought

Speaker 2  1:36:47
she's a chiropractor. It

Bill Clearfield  1:36:48
might be a chiropractor. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:36:50
yeah, she can.

Speaker 5  1:36:52
Unfortunate.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:54
So, what do you do with what do you do with the ones who get the side effects stuff on? Yeah, we switch.

Speaker 5  1:36:59
I mean, I give them EZETIMIBE, and I've been trying to get more coverage for Repass of these days for people who are just Statin intolerant. One

Speaker 7  1:37:07
of the best sources of data for myalgia with the Statin is vitamin D.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:16
Yeah, 37.6

Speaker 7  1:37:17
was the goal, so I just say 40 when it gave them enough vitamin D to give them about 40 93% of them no longer had miles of these use the same Statin to cause a problem or switch them it's because the STATINS deplete cholesterol precurses which screws up hormones like vitamin d and coenzyme Q 10 is somewhat effective. I know it's a favorite for CARDIOLOGISTS, but I haven't seen it work as good as Vitamin D. I'm sorry.

Speaker 5  1:37:50
Okay, I'll give it a

Bill Clearfield  1:37:54
go. Okay, did we talk of Dr. Collins mentioned retract true tide? I always get that wrong. Oh

Speaker 5  1:38:00
yeah, well, that's.. we're gonna find out a whole bunch of things. Have read a true date.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:04
Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:38:05
they're building a big, $10 billion facility. We're gonna see a lot of cool data coming out of that.

Speaker 7  1:38:14
Hey, Trump's taking

Speaker 5  1:38:17
it. He's gonna know what

Bill Clearfield  1:38:18
Dr. Klatz is up to these days. I don't. has he been on with us,

Speaker 5  1:38:23
he's in the chat,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:25
is he?

Speaker 5  1:38:25
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:26
okay. So, Dr. Klatz, if you're what are you up to these days? What happened? We were hot on cyclodextrin for a while. Is he there? Is it the

Speaker 5  1:38:37
problem with cyclodextrin is getting a compounding pharmacy? Who knows how to make it, and it's just, it's just been too sticky. It doesn't go up the nose right. It's just been a mess.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:48
Yeah, it's great in theory, but in practice. Another one of Dr. Halas's, he could have been a contender. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:38:56
it's a mess. It doesn't work. It's too messy.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:02
Let's studies on Microvascular health scores. Okay, okay. I think that's just about everything in the, in the chat. Stefan, thank you. Stefan McConnell, thank you,

Speaker 5  1:39:17
thank you, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:18
You're on September 1, by the way, so I'll be in touch.

Speaker 7  1:39:22
God bless you all.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:25
Okay, Stefan, you got it. Do you have a little summary for us

Speaker 5  1:39:30
here? Make it simple on your guys, on you guys. Just the get the April B below 60 to prevent cardiovascular disease, get it below 40 if they have established cardiovascular disease, that's basically it. Just ignore alt noise on social media, ignore, you know, Boston HeartLab trying to sell you something expensive. You got to do this test or this supplement, it's all nonsense. Just follow the ApoB. I don't care how you get there. If you ask my pharmacology friends at Big Pharma, they're gonna say, 'Well, all the studies are on risk on STATINS, they have the most robust. We have millions of patient years of studies on STATINS. You can't deny those studies, but in our functional medicine group, we like to look at mechanism of action, and we can't really dispute that ApoB is causative for atherosclerosis, and it's the time under the curve of APO B that drives plaquing in your arteries. So, if you are six years old and you have an ApoB that's elevated, you should lower it. If you're 60 with an ApoB that's elevated, you should lower it, because our goal in anti-aging medicine is to get patients to 130 if we can do it very healthy without hemipletia, without CHF. That is our goal in anti-aging medicine, and that is our goal when we're doing optimization therapy, which is what everyone here in the chat is doing.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:49
Dr. Nary, you've been a little quiet tonight. What did they say? What would be the comment from Dr. Watt? You know, your, your Dr. Wild's group,

Speaker 2  1:41:01
well, we're not shy. I, myself, I'm not shy putting out the Statin in front of my patient if they need it. And that's when, when you talk about the Andrew Wild Group, we're not definitely shy about that. They're not going to push niacin, they're not going to push any of these herbs and supplements. They're going to go for the real deal, so that's what we're being taught there. And STATINS, still the number one recommended therapy to lower down cardiovascular risks. And again, with the patient that I see, I always - I'm always upfront with them. I just tell them, "You need this. If you don't, at least I need to document that. And it's up now for you to take the responsibility, if you want to use niacin fish oil or these rice, but again, that conversation needs to happen. They're not because we're integrative practitioners, we're just going to go for the naturals, and sometimes we want to give in to the patient's request, because we want them to be pleased. But really, to all practitioners out there, don't be shy to pull out the big guns or the prescription meds. There's a really a time and place for it,

Speaker 5  1:42:06
right? I agree.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:08
All right, all right. Well, Stefan, great job as always, Stefan.

Speaker 2  1:42:13
There's a riot in the streets. Oh, I bet. What do we do with that?

Bill Clearfield  1:42:18
I can, I can almost hear Dr. Halasa. Now you know, really,

Speaker 5  1:42:22
Halasa still hasn't done his labs. I ordered him labs, I said it'd be free. I'll buy. I don't think he'll

Bill Clearfield  1:42:28
ever do them. He won't ever do them.

Speaker 5  1:42:33
I know he just talks, talks, talks. He doesn't do. I want him to do. I will need labs. I want to see your insulin resistance in your estrogen. Let me see it. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:42:40
Doctor doing labs. Yeah, I

Bill Clearfield  1:42:43
had mine done today. I'll report when I get it back. Yeah, I had mine drawn today.

Speaker 1  1:42:50
That's right.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:51
All right, yeah. Next week we have a fellow named Jake Wiedes. He's going to be with us. I met him at IFM. Jake does practice management, and he's got a unique way of sort of bringing clients to your, to your clinic. So, I thought he'd be interesting to listen to. So, we'll have him next week, and the week after that, I have my very good friend Jim Nakarato, who's been my mentor for the last 12 years. He's been my practice mentor, and he's become a good friend. He's a chiropractor and a psychologist, actually, and that's, that's quite a, quite a combination, and he, I met him in South Lake Tahoe when I went to a Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association meeting, and I wandered into the wrong room because they were out skiing. It was in the winter time, and he was teaching his chiropractic. I was there for four hours before I realized that there was a car, there was a chiropractic class, and this was in 2014 and I've been with him ever since, and so I think you'll find him interesting also. So he's in two weeks. Okay, Dr. Nario, you got it, or anybody else you have anybody that wants to wants to present to us, let us know. I'm still waiting to hear from IFM if they, they think we're worthy of their partnership, so we're on on Tinder folks for that. And anything else going on out there? Any conferences? Any anything? Anything of interest? Anybody presenting anything

Speaker 2  1:44:39
for the Philippine group? We have our peeps here. I'm going to be presenting on Monday for them. And are you doing

Bill Clearfield  1:44:46
it online? Are you

Speaker 2  1:44:47
online now? I'll be there in on the screen, so it's going to be about Homo toxicology. So, we'll see our Philippine peeps there.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:58
Okay. Alrighty, and other than that, we'll be back next week, same time, same station. I personally am going to visit my grandchildren. I'm leaving tonight on the on the overnight, and so I will be busy with five little ones. So,

Speaker 2  1:45:20
Grandpa's home,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:21
so keep the home fires burning while I'm going. Okay,

Speaker 8  1:45:25
everyone.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:26
Okay. Yes. Happy fourth. So, so those of us who were around long enough to remember 1976 was the 200th birthday. I was working emergency room at the Metropolitan Hospital. I was a medical student, and there was a parking lot incident there after the fireworks, and this was downtown Philadelphia, which, of course, you know, was sort of the center of attention, and we had 25 carbon monoxide poisonings because there was somebody wouldn't let them out of the parking, so that was our, my fourth of July of 2019 76 So, so hopefully it's the hospital, by the way, where I was at, is now a condominium, so they won't be repeating that. So, okay, all right, everybody. Same time, same station next week. And everybody have a great holiday. Bring a

Speaker 2  1:46:26
friend, bring a friend. See

Bill Clearfield  1:46:27
you. We'll see you soon.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:29
Take care. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai