Unknown Speaker  00:51
Hey, there Heather.

Bill Clearfield  01:02
I can you hear me now? Can you hear me now? I think you have two on Close one.

Bill Clearfield  01:20
How's that? There you go. That's better when you have two on. There's an echo.

Speaker 1  01:25
Yeah, I didn't know I had two until I just looked up and there it was. Okay, thank you. It's a wonderful conference.

Bill Clearfield  01:37
Thank you. It actually came off quite nicely, so fantastic.

Unknown Speaker  01:46
You weren't here in person. How you doing? Bill? Well,

Bill Clearfield  01:49
I'm in recovery mode.

Bill Clearfield  01:57
We pulled it off so what? No sound. Nah, it's me.

Bill Clearfield  02:15
So, yeah, we pulled it off.

Speaker 2  02:19
Are you recovered, not yet. Man, hey, nice coat. Man, nice jacket. What this now that one, I don't know you wearing it now?

Bill Clearfield  02:32
Well, I have different one. I have a whole bunch of them.

Speaker 2  02:35
It was like, Orange. Man, it was beautiful. Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  02:39
I have a whole bunch of them. You know, they got cartoons on them.

Speaker 2  02:44
Gosh. Well, congratulations.

Bill Clearfield  02:47
You know, I have to, have to do something to go with the pink glasses.

Unknown Speaker  02:53
I didn't even notice.

Bill Clearfield  02:56
No at the androgen society, that's they call me that the doctor with the pink glasses.

Speaker 2  03:02
Well, they say it takes balls to wear pink. So congratulations.

Bill Clearfield  03:07
There you go. Well, there it is. So, yeah, I mean, it started, it started out as a necessity. I, I, you know, I need these to read. And I had broken all the ones I had in the office. And we were really busy. I couldn't even send anybody over to Walmart to go get, you know, a spare pair. And what the Gallup front said, All I have is these pink ones. I said, okay, and they look pretty good. The patients like them, so I've been using them ever since.

Speaker 2  03:36
I think that was the classiest jacket I've ever seen. And I come from motorcycle world out here, so that's saying a lot.

Bill Clearfield  03:48
Well, okay, so it's not a motor. Well, you could, you could probably put some of this on a motorcycle jacket.

Speaker 2  03:54
Hey, any criticism to the thing? You pulled it off so it's nice.

Bill Clearfield  03:58
Oh, there's always criticisms. You know, sometimes you got to go and put it one ear and out the other.

Speaker 2  04:04
So, well, I'm not going to say anything until Kevin sends me the telephoto photos. He said he was going to do so photo lens, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:12
okay, yeah, yeah. So I don't know Steve. Steve said he might have have the videos done today, but I didn't, I don't think it's going to be for a couple of weeks.

Speaker 2  04:24
So no, you're thinking of doing another one in six months, maybe.

Bill Clearfield  04:29
Yeah, six, six to eight months. It'll give me more time to plan so, so maybe the venue sort of turned out to be pretty good. You know, for the size crowd we had,

Speaker 2  04:41
it's, it was a tremendous show. The information was really up there. And Levy and challenberger, everybody, everybody who talked, did a really good job.

Bill Clearfield  04:54
Did good and you weren't there for the after hours. You know, we had had a, Chris Costa was playing. We had a, we had a, you know, he's like a one man band. He plays 50s and 60s and 70s. And the next night, we had Tommy and Tammy. And they were, they do 70s and 80s.

Speaker 2  05:14
Well, I think doing just what you did, feeding, and we,

Bill Clearfield  05:21
we over we over bought on on food. We overfed everybody.

Speaker 2  05:26
And so better than under and you can always take it with you, do something, give it charity, anything but to feed people at a meeting and to entertain them is really cool.

Bill Clearfield  05:41
Yeah, so. But, you know, compared to the old, the old, old days when I pretty much had to do everything myself, between Kevin and Dr Nario, this was kind of a breeze. I could delegate. I didn't have to do every single thing myself.

Unknown Speaker  05:57
So we're charging for professional fees.

Bill Clearfield  06:02
Okay, you're gonna, you know what it is, it's a percentage of my my fee. And you know what my fee was for this? You know what I got paid for this? This soiree, right? Same as always, yep, close your eyes. What do you see?

Unknown Speaker  06:27
Million bucks. So,

Bill Clearfield  06:32
yeah. So anyway, I've gotten, I've gotten I haven't heard any Well, only, the only guy who didn't the only one who didn't like anything was that guy right at the end of the hallway with those crystal chairs. He was the only one who gave me a hard time. What do you mean?

Unknown Speaker  06:51
What did he tell you

Bill Clearfield  06:53
he wasn't getting enough traffic? So I personally took people out there by the scruff of their neck and put them right in the chair there. I don't know what the hell else I could have done.

Speaker 3  07:04
Well, the crystals are in the middle. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:07
no, no, the ones right at the end. That when you, when you come in, down the down the first hallway, he was right at the end there.

Speaker 3  07:16
First hallway at the end he was, yeah, but

Bill Clearfield  07:20
you know, when he came out of the classroom, you couldn't see him. You had to go to the left. That would would have been on the way out. He was the last vendor on and then you got to the lobby.

Speaker 3  07:30
Oh, he's the guy who, the big guy stood on chairs,

Bill Clearfield  07:33
yeah, the real tall guy, yeah,

Speaker 3  07:35
what he's been getting people sitting on his device.

Bill Clearfield  07:39
You know, some people, there's just you can't, you can't please them all. So can't please them.

Speaker 2  07:45
So, oh, wow, if, if you guys going to do another one in six months, maybe the earlier, the better it is to get something in a preliminary design so that emails and communications can go out early. And one other question for you is that we can buy emails. I didn't push it at the end, but I contacted the email guys who can get, say, 5000 osteopathic emails sent out and might cost 500 to 1000 bucks to pull this off, but if you're sending invitations out, and you can specify the crowd, those interested in manual medicine, those injuries, whatever you want to do, you can do that. I didn't know if you guys knew that or not, but it'll cost maybe 500 to 1000 bucks to get 5000 emails,

Bill Clearfield  08:44
and that would, I think it's a little bit more

Unknown Speaker  08:47
than if you want a crowd, you could get it.

Speaker 3  08:50
Oh, it was fun. I had, I had the time of my life with seeing our peeps in real time. So Tano was there, Janet, dr, crouch was there.

Bill Clearfield  09:06
Adam genes was there, was there. Dr, Siegel was there. She was a big

Speaker 3  09:14
hit, yeah, so I hope everybody

Bill Clearfield  09:17
who knew she knew how to dance too, yeah?

Speaker 3  09:21
Bill was forcing everybody he's going to break some legs if they don't.

Speaker 2  09:27
Hey, how come Dr Siegel likes us? She has a lot of class, but she really likes us.

Bill Clearfield  09:34
Well, no, you know, there's, there's no say, there's no, you know, there's no, you know, just, you know, even, even, even though she has a lot of class, she still likes this.

Speaker 3  09:48
You know, how good her presentation was, she had to stay a few days after the conference to treat animals of the the audience members. So, right, did you know that Dr Bill, yeah, you treated animals of our audience. She got some some work in Nevada. Now, hopefully she moves over. We get the bioidentical integrative approaches of vets through her,

Bill Clearfield  10:19
she does a lot of neat things

Speaker 3  10:23
for everyone who missed it, you missed it, big time. You missed it. You missed it,

Bill Clearfield  10:28
you missed it. We will have, hopefully not shortly. And speaking of Dr Siegel, here she is, hopefully shortly, we will have have it online. If you were registered, you will have it. If not, we'll have to see it'll be reasonable, and we'll be able to award you, give you the 20 ama credits. Also. It'll be reasonable. It won't be too much.

Speaker 3  10:52
So did you hear comments that were better than a for him? I mean, I

Bill Clearfield  10:57
got it besides me.

Speaker 3  11:01
I got I said that audience, not you. I agree. Bias, all right, I agree. It was amazing. You dance your heart out.

Speaker 2  11:14
I'll have to ask Dr Siegel, hey. How come you like us? You are such an uplifting spirit,

Unknown Speaker  11:20
because you guys are awesome. Yay.

Speaker 2  11:26
Anyway, it's wonderful to see this happening. We even had a biological dentist there. It's like, wow, we're starting to fill in the gaps in medicine here.

Speaker 3  11:41
Well, that makes us a little different from other organizations that just does the talk. So we kind of walk the talk, right?

Bill Clearfield  11:49
Yeah, yeah. I think we did a pretty nice job. Thank you everybody. We only had, we only had one vendor that was unhappy. That's, that's, you know, you got to have at least one person unhappy, or we haven't done, you know, we haven't made our mark.

Speaker 3  12:07
Hey, we're that good. Vendors were sneaking together crowd.

Bill Clearfield  12:14
We had a couple of sneak in vendors too. But don't worry, we're, we're on to them. Joe Joel was around. So if, if they, they don't, they don't pay the fee. You know, we know where they live.

Unknown Speaker  12:30
Yeah, I saw them. Our leg

Bill Clearfield  12:33
breakers are have been activated.

Speaker 3  12:36
And I think they sold some stuff, right? They did? Yeah, they earned money from that.

Speaker 2  12:41
So I want to say hello to Carol Peterson, too, and thank Carol for always being with us. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  12:48
You see what you miss, Carol. We should have been here

Speaker 4  12:51
next I know, except I go to a for him. It was too much.

Speaker 3  12:57
No, no, we'll force Carol because we're going to make her one of the speakers. We're better.

Bill Clearfield  13:04
We're better than a for him,

Speaker 4  13:07
I have to try it out if you're going to do it in six months. Yeah, we'll do it again. Sounds like a good plan? Yeah?

Bill Clearfield  13:14
I think, well, maybe part of, part of it was we didn't have a whole lot of time to plan. I mean, September 15, I didn't know we were doing this.

Bill Clearfield  13:27
When I did the old aosrd ones I usually had, I mean, we knew that, you know, we knew, you know, a year in advance we were going to be doing it. So this one I had, we had two months to plan it. So, not bad, yeah, we did pretty well. So, yeah, the only, the only, the only money we spent that we probably shouldn't have was on the we had too much food.

Unknown Speaker  13:54
Oh, everybody was stuffed. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  13:57
we had too much food. We had, we had grateful Gardens, which is a twice, which was an organic restaurant in town. Here we had them twice.

Speaker 2  14:05
Hey, what was Gino happy with the whole show?

Speaker 3  14:09
Oh, yeah, yeah. So he actually extended his promo for our audience. So even after the event, he said that he will give discounts to our audience when they go to their his restaurant after the, I think two, three days after the event, they still get discounts.

Unknown Speaker  14:26
Very good, very good.

Bill Clearfield  14:29
Okay, alright, Doctor Nario, it's five after five, and I know our speakers here, alright. So give us the you got a tip for us this week? Or did you? Oh, yeah,

Speaker 3  14:40
no, we're not stopping. Okay, keep going. Keep on going. Okay, alright. Hi everyone. Thanks for joining us again. So I saw everybody during the weekend, but now I'm seeing you again virtually. So we're just surviving, I guess, post Thanksgiving and standing between us as January and also Christmas parties, office potlucks and New Year's Eve buffets and the mysterious cookie tin that shows up in everybody's clinics break room. Today we'll talk about weight loss, botanicals your patients are already probably taking for other reasons, anti inflammatory, cardio, metabolic, for gut support, but that also give a modest metabolic edge for our patients. So these are not the common ones that we already know that are associated to weight loss, such as green tea extract, l carnitine and even CLA these aren't GLP ones either. So no one's losing 30% of body weight with these supplements that I'm going to give out, but they'll they'll be useful adjuncts, especially during the six week seasonal metabolic Apocalypse that is coming. So first, curcumin, the anti inflammatory that accidentally helps with fat loss. So our patients always are probably on this because of osteoarthritis, inflammation, even metabolic syndrome, the dose 1000 to 1500 milligrams per day of curcumin with piperine or liposomal form, a study 2019 RCT has shown overweight adults receiving Curcumin with lifestyle changes for 30 days, lost two kilograms more than the lifestyle alone. Arm and the mechanisms. Again, we know about suppression of NF, kappa B, improves adiponectin and even enhancing fatty acid oxidation and the clinical Pearl. Pearl here is curcumin. Works best in patients with clear inflammatory phenotypes, joint pain, elevated HSC or ppcos and even fatty liver. So curcumin, the key here is the dose. Don't let your patients be just taking 500 milligrams, one cap a day. You have to probably make them do higher another one would be capsaicin thermogenic chili pepper with clinical receipts, as as I say, why patients already are using this because of pain modulation. Dose, again, would be two to 10 milligrams per day of capsaicinoids. And the study of 2022 meta analysis found 50 to 70 extra kilocalories per day burn and leading to 0.9 kilogram weight reduction over eight to 12 weeks. Mechanism activating TRPV one, increasing brown fat activity and even reducing appetite slightly. And number three would be Berberine, the OG GLP one before GLP one was actually cool, so patients already using this because of what pre diabetes, PCOS, dyslipidemia and even SIBO, ke dose would be 500 milligrams, two to three times a day, 2020, meta analysis showed 2.3 kilogram weight loss over 12 weeks, plus improvements in a 1c and triglycerides, again, mechanisms activating A and PK improves insulin sensitivity and reducing hepatic lipogenesis. Number four would be citrus orange extract. So we always hear this as what citrus arantium or synephrine, and patients are on this already because of what athletic performance and dose 10 to 15 milligrams per day. So again, 2016 review found 2.5 3.1 kilogram weight loss over six to 12 weeks. When combined with caffeine, it increases metabolic rate, mild daily three agonist mobilizing fat and slightly increasing energy expenditure, safety, Pearl, avoiding patients with uncontrolled hypertension or arrhythmias. And lastly, Garcinia Cambogia, the one again, patients still ask about so most of our patients will be on this because of what stopping emotional eating, dosing 500 to 1000 milligrams, three times a day, and 2011 meta analysis found point 088, kilograms weight loss over two to 12 weeks. The mechanism is inhibiting ATP, citric liase, and also mild appetite suppression. So clinical Pearl here is modest effects, but well tolerated and psychologically satisfying for patients who wants to make again something out of nothing and wrapping it all up. So here's the clinical reality, these botanicals offer modest evidence based weight loss benefits, typically one to three kilograms over eight to 12 weeks. But they also treat inflammation, insulin resistance, PCOS, metabolic syndrome and joint pain and labor, even liver health. They're not comparable to GLP ones, but they stack beautifully with GLP one, agonist peptides, exercise programs, low inflammatory diets, holiday survival strategies, and most of your patients are ready on two to three of these just not for weight management, but for other conditions that I just mentioned. So as we slide from Thanksgiving grieving to New Year's champagne, remember these supplements won't replace GLP ones, but they might help our patients keep their buttons from flying off their pants during the holidays and so and let's be honest, anything that reduces January regret is good for longevity medicine. So that is your tip of the week. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  19:47
Thank you. So just a little tip from our from our clinic here, as you know. So we've had a very robust GLP one way before anybody you know was on anybody's radar, and especially the mini doses. And we've used Berberine and pretty high doses, 400 to 500 milligrams, two of them, twice a day, with trans resveratrol, about 100 milligrams a day. We use those two for weight maintenance. So once the, once the the, you know, the program is, quote, unquote over it. Those, those, that combination will help your patients from regaining the weight. So, you know, that's one of the big complaints. Well, I lost 50 pounds and I gained 40 of it back. We've had really very good success with with that combination. And it's it has. So the Berberine that we, that we get, has some I always Jim dia Sylvester. I always pronounce it wrong. It's one of the ingredients, and it's kind of like a sweet tooth killer in it. Also the one, the brand that we have, I'm not going to mention it because we got the video on, I can get it. I can tell you what it is later, if you're interested. But that's, that's one of our tips that we use that for after, after the after the GLP one program, or to help the patients, you know, keep weight off. Now, again, the Berberine is high dose. Okay, that's a higher dose than we use for, you know, blood sugar control or even cholesterol control.

Speaker 3  21:29
Well, the key here, really is to get those doses high enough, because majority of patients are just following the label dosing suggestions, and they're not going to meet that in accordance to the studies that I just mentioned, so you have to get it up there. And that's why you mentioned about that your dosing as being high. That's the one that the studies are backing up.

Bill Clearfield  21:47
And you know, if you know, try to get familiar with a couple of these, you know, some of these supplements, and get to know them well, so that you're not afraid to use those higher doses, and somebody put in the chat that they're using. What is it? Something with cyclodextrin, right?

Unknown Speaker  22:09
That's Dr

Bill Clearfield  22:10
with cyclodextrin. Is that a? Is that a? Dr halasa? Yeah. He, by the way, Dr halasa was there too.

Unknown Speaker  22:21
He Mr. Cyclodextrin,

Bill Clearfield  22:24
he was entertaining us with his usual, you know, charm and fervor. So okay, and with that, our speaker tonight is Dr Robert siala and Heather house. And Heather, I'm going to let you introduce yourself. Heather's been on with us before, and she's she's been a regular here quite often. And she's got some doctor, Robert siala has a a researcher, come up with some some interesting formulas. So Heather, I'm going to let you take it from there.

Speaker 1  23:01
All right, can you hear me? Okay, cuz my internet is on, stable would be a little

Bill Clearfield  23:05
bit louder, but we hear you fine.

Bill Clearfield  23:13
To do now we're hearing every other word,

Unknown Speaker  23:22
not hear me.

Bill Clearfield  23:24
Yep, it says your says your video was stalled.

Bill Clearfield  23:33
So if Heather's not there, Dr sayala, are you on?

Unknown Speaker  23:38
Yes, I'm here. Okay, Dr Clearfield, well, then

Bill Clearfield  23:41
we're going to let you take it away. Why don't you introduce yourself, and we'll, we'll get, get Heather back here and go and go for it.

Speaker 5  23:52
All right? Thank you. Dr Clearfield, well. Dr Robert solaya, I'm located in the state of Utah for the last 12 years now, and I started as a very strong background in engineering. I possess a couple of bachelor in science engineering. And after 2000 year 2000 I decided to study about naturopathic doctor. And I wanted to become a naturopathic doctor, since my father passed away back in that year. So I said, Well, gotta be something, something different that can support our current medicine protocols. And I decided to do so. So after that, I started taking the opportunity and and well, three years ago, I was very surprised. I was in a South America in Ecuador, and I received a phone call from my sister in which she was stating that she was very sick. And unfortunately, we thought there was a cancer, stage four, according to some doctors. And I said, oops, that's going to be something, you know, difficult to approach. Good thing there is that she met a doctor, Antonio Rodriguez, in Mexico, and he started treating her with some nanotechnology and adaptogens, nutrients. And I was very, very surprised how quickly she recovered. Four months later, she was healed completely. And I said, interesting, so at that time, that was October 2022 a good friend of mine. He's 72 years old now, and he was diagnosis with cancer, stomach cancer with a tumor of approximately 12 centimeters. I was invaded with cancer, and I said, Jose, let's let's go to Mexico. I have heard of some kind of product portfolio with adaptogens and nanotechnology that I would like to try with you, because basically he was pretty close to die. Is his life was determined in just a two month, two and a half months, that was it. So I traveled with Jose to Mexico, and what was my surprise that three months later, his cancer stage was in just stage one, and he's still doing pretty well. He has not trace of any kind of cancer. He continue, of course, with his medical treatment. And that's what I want to talk today. I want to share with you some of the products that we've been using, just the ingredients. Of course, I'm going to talk to you about the technology that we have used, and most important, I'm going to bring up some of the cases studies that I have on my on my side, personally, I have treated with very positive results. So I'm going to share screen here, and I want to start here with this information.

Speaker 5  27:31
So as we know, you know, we have all of these current diseases that are affecting our children. Mexico has been appointed as the number one country in the world with more obesity in youth, in the youth people, in young people. It is just amazing in Mexico. How's this been increasing year after year? Look at this information here has been predicted, basically, that today's generation of kids, may night, may not, outlive their parents. This is, this is amazing. Looking at the back since the 50s compared to today, we can see it's a lot of nutrient deficiency in our in our field. So we don't have more nutrients. We are practically depleted than nutrients, if we look at our body composition and how it's going to take to improve that. So basically, we have a great opportunity to change how we are going to rebuild our body looking here most complicated is for brain cells. Uh, takes over a year to to improve that. Back in 2004 I had the opportunity to take several seminars with Doctor Bruce Lipton about epigenetics. So I started understanding the importance of working the epigenetic factors, how they are affecting our genes, performance, how we are, you know, our environment, or epigenetic factors are really putting our genes in a very critical situation. Or genes, as we know, are not self actualizing. They genes do not turn on or off by themselves, so they got to be something external that really controls the rates of their blueprint activity. Up to 98% of the chronic diseases are basically due to the epigenetic factors here. So what are we are what are we facing today? A lot of toxins, as we know, food without nutrients, electromagnetic frequencies. It is just amazing. How's this been affecting our body? I have had the opportunity to work in Germany with a lot of doctors in working what can we do in order to protect ourselves from electromagnetic frequencies and, of course, the stress management, that's another of the key epigenetic factors that are putting ourselves in a very critical situation. So we are here on the middle of these epigenetic factors with a lot of sugars and toxins. But the point here is, how can we improve our genetic expression? And here is where the nanotechnology and the adaptogens came out here for this equation, because we do have the opportunity to change our genetic expression, as you can see here. On this picture, we can see how our genes are practically turning on and off. And fortunately, now we have, and we know about some mechanisms in which we can really help our genes to to improve rapidly. Looking at this report from the School of Science and Nutrition Friedman in Boston, Massachusetts, we can see here also how the toxins, the dying and the foods are really causing us a lot of our issues here, starting with high productivity, chromosomal damage, cancer and so many other metabolic syndromes that are really putting us in A very critical situation. But look at this report here, the trends in the different diseases over the last 34 years. It is just amazing. Heading here with the number one, the chronic fatigue syndrome, 11,000% bipolar disorder, youth, 10,000% of fibromyalgia, 70 200% and then we have the autism spectrum disorders, 2,000% and autoimmune disorders around a 16 100% this is, this is what we have seen during The last 34 years. And definitely what has changed here is all of the environmental factors that we are facing right now. So I had the opportunity of using epigenetic technologies. I have the DNA hair scanning analysis and also the bio quantum analysis. And I had the opportunity to look at this. And I have performed around 34 3500 3500 analysis, and this is what I found on my patients, especially with autoimmune problems. It is 60% of them I have found the presence of toxins, hydrocarbons, heavy metals, electromagnetic frequencies, chemicals and additives. And so far, the lack of antioxidants definitely affects our immune system by at least 30% and the other remaining, the other 10% is because the lack of some of the vitamins, amino acids and some of the minerals and fatty acids require in our body. So this is what I have found. So by having these numbers, I have taken the chance of going through a lot of patients with extremely, extremely positive results. I will share with you at the end of my presentation about some of the cases that I have been treating recently with. You know, very you know, amazing, amazing improvement in just four weeks in some of the cases that you will see later here. So looking at this report during the last 4344, years looking at the glutathione levels in the body. So we were presently at seven point points in a scale of zero to 10, and we have dropped drastically to almost 1.5 you know, oxidative stress is one of the most critical damages that we are getting every day, and this is, this is has been really, very, very critical situation, according to one of the reports and analysis conducted at the University of Judah, sciences have found that over 5000 toxins are impacting our body daily. And since our lack of exercise, since we are not taking nutrients, because of all of the factors, and you know, epigenetic factors, we are just pulling out of our body, only 1000 of those toxins. So what is this is, you know, millions of free radicals affecting our cellular performance, and, of course, causing our genes to really affect our body, and mainly with a kidney related diseases, liver diseases, autoimmune diseases and nervous system disorders and endocrine disorders because of the toxins that we are that we are having. Also, I have a technology that I brought from Japan. It is that technology in which you can really measure your stress level. You can see your physical and your mental stress in patients. And this is nice, because you can see if the treatment that the person is receiving is really making an improvement, because that's going to be immediately reflected with your stress report. And of course, by taking a good control over the stress definitely will start helping our immune system to really improve, and, you know, prevent from more than 80 autoimmune diseases that are listed so far here. So I have pointed out here 21 of those diseases, and here is where our subject comes to board. You know, the nanotechnology, the adaptogens. One of the good things here is that approximately 15 years ago, I had the opportunity to work along with Dr Samir rugoson. He's a Russian doctor, and I learned a lot from him about the adaptogens. Unfortunately, adaptogens, the pure, you know, extract of those adaptogens, are really very, very expensive. And I was using those adaptogens with a good thing here, but now in with a combination of the nanotechnology adaptogens, that's been a completely change in the progress of the patients. Here is the good thing here is that I started using this product portfolio with a lot of good benefits. And of course, the purpose of this information is not to replace any kind of a clinical expertise. It is just to give you an insight of some other mechanisms that I have found and then that I wanted to share with all of you, because this is what is happening? 60% of chronic patients are not responding effectively after the five years of treatment,

Speaker 5  37:11
and this is most important here. When I lost my father back in the year 2000 I said, because of diabetes. I said, What can we do, really, to improve so after that and taking these products, it is amazing how I can help above 1500 of my patients with diabetes that are not any longer using medication drops. Of course, it was, you know, long task that was a six, eight, up to 14 months of treatment. I was hearing about Dr Clearfield, about the barbering, and I'm going to talk about those in high doses. It is extremely effective to really control it. So over 1500 patients are no longer using medication to control blood sugar, which is which is amazing. What's the benefit of these nanotechnology, nanotechnology, nutraceuticals, is basically that the components that we are using are less than 100 nanometers. Used to give an insight about the nanometers. Just looking at the covid 19 virus, this covid was in the range of us, in the scale of 60 up to 110 nanometers. Now we had the opportunity to develop special formulas in which it is just a 2020, nanometers. So with that, we started working during the covid 19 pandemic very strongly, with a lot of very positive results. So that was really exceptional for many, for many, many people. So basically, it's a greater, greater bioavailability, and of course, the ability of putting the nutrient inside the mitochondria in the cells. That's that's going to be a great, a great improvement. We know about the adaptogens. We have some of those here. And what's the benefit of this? Adaptogens? Basically, it's to help our body to cope the stress in which we have been putting or various or patients. So the ability of the adaptogens is basically making a good improvement in a very, very fast way, because we are able to modulate properly any kind of the diseases that we have. And I just want to point out that we are not suspending any kind of medical treatment in any kind of the diseases. We are just providing the body what the body needs and removing from the body what the body doesn't need anymore, which is the toxins and the chemicals and and the heavy metals which are really affected one of the products here. It's key for, you know, for stress control. This is amazing product. And here we can see some of the benefits that we can have through some of the products here, and the ingredients we have, some of the green tea, we have the passion flower, we have the valerian, which is amazing in order to control any kind of anxiety, epilepsies, Parkinson's disease. And I'm going to be sharing with you in the future, these cases in which what we how we have treated, and in what does is, and you can see here, or does this are really high doses, using it in order to make this improvements. Here are some of the clinical evidence on the stress adaptogens. So you can see here some of the PubMed publications and how we can make some improvement. That's for sure, up to 64 improvement in anxiety or fatigue management, and also the reduction in salivary cortisol. I've been using one of the, you know, saliva strips to measure the cortisol level, and has been, you know, something, one of the best tools that I have forgotten. It's amazing how we can really start taking control of the cortisol levels in people by just knowing, in a very, you know, rapid saliva testing, we can see in just a couple of minutes the results. This is one of the formulas that we have. We have the Berberine cinnamon, alpha lipoic acid that we have made a lot of progress, especially for controlling pre diabetes, hyperinsulinemia, and also the emotional stress, because we are using one of the adaptogens, which is the phenobrig the fenugreek struck. So we have a lot of these structs. Here we have the the glycosid structs from the fenugreek with with a lot of improvements. So if we compare here with metformin and the statins, it's basically how we have, you know, improve our patients. Here you can see some of the capsules dossification, depending on the type of diabetes. And this is one of the key products that I've been using with my patient. This is the list of ingredients that you can see here. And honestly, we have have gotten a very, very positive, very positive results. So this is more of the information here. And good thing here is that we have, right now, over 500 many medical doctors using or formulas in order to improve their their passions life. Let me just share here about the technology. Real quick. I want to share here the bio quantum technology. It is just important to underline, this is a non medical device. However, we have been using it in order for people, especially in the Latin American market, which are not really capable to approach any kind of MRIs or any kind of, you know, medical assistance, just in Mexico from the last four years, we increased from around 20 million people, we went up to approximately 42 million people with not having the opportunity of having any kind of medical assistance. So what we did, we tried to thirst for a technology, not a medical device, but that can help us to really, you know, support, you know, millions of people right now. We are in this here in Mexico. We are doing in South America, and also in in Central America, Guatemala, in which one of the key doctors that we have, the president of the medical doctors in Guatemala. He published a report on this device that was that was really interesting. So basically, what we do with this technology is to promote a culture of prevention, mainly. So what it does the device, basically, what we do is we measure the, you know the electrical charge in our cells. Once we know that we are having some differences or discrepancies in our electrical charge in our cells, we can see that our tissue or organ our systems are are in jeopardy of developing disease. So the good thing here, with this technology, is that is not a replaceable I mean, we can continue using our our medical and all standard measurements, but we are going to have 125 pages report in which we can see very, very fast. We are going to see all of the biomarkers we and I want to share that with you later, but here so we can see if it's out of balance or if it's normal. So we can see here the green section is the normal side, and on the left or on the right, that's going to be basically out of balance. And the good thing here is that by providing the nutrients, so we are going to start measuring that balance recovery a month after month. So practically three months, you can see a lot of the changes positively in the in our patients. You know, performance here, we can see all of the an insight of what we can see here, human toxins, heavy metals, we can see how's the condition of some of our key organs, and most important that we can measure, how's your how's our immune system doing, and what type of proteins, to some extent, are Missing, for instance, a collagen or elasticity proteins or so, then we can take an approach and how we can. We can do it easily. So with this technology, we can rapidly have in just five minutes, we can have approximately 45 biomarkers So, and we can see in the color chart how those are looking, and then we can take the proper approach the whole thing here that the technology. It's helping us because we are fitted our system with what kind of, you know, products and nutrients with a nanotechnology. Adaptogens are doing the work here. Now this is the science and the medical papers that we have been working along with.

Speaker 5  46:47
We published this in the American Journal of biomedical science and research. And this is the report that was published back in on October 2025, so just, you know, couple of months ago. So this is in which the first time that we started using the pulse oximetry in quantum metabolic analysis in regenerative medicine. So this is what we publish, with a lot of success. And here is a good thing, because we can see how the degenerative disease is being chronic and progressive, affect the patient in a comprehensive way, using proteins to stop the inflammatory process. So by using this quantum technology, basically, we are trying to have this tool in order to improve in our patient performance emerging technology that can apply the principles of the quantum mechanics to detect any kind of biological molecules or viruses or toxins with high precision. So this is what we publish, and we, you know, receive a lot of the credit right now, I'm in the process of traveling to Guatemala again, when I have a conference with over more than 150 doctors, so we they can see what we have found and how we can really track any kind of, you know, inflammatory process by using this, this, this technology. So that's, that's, those are the paper that I wanted to share with you. And now what I'm going to do here, I'm going to show one of the most critical case studies that I treated. Recently, I traveled to Colombia back in November, and a good friend of mine called me and said, I hear that you have been using some good, you know, nutrients, with adaptogens and based in nanotechnology. So he said, I have a case in which is very critical. Is male, 56 years old, and this is the information here on the diagnosis two years ago, this patient was diagnosed with laryngeal cancer, so he took me to follow the chemotherapy sessions, and that was under control. That was good. But back in June 2025, the patient started developing some protuberances on the tongue. And again, the diagnosis was stage four tongue cancer. So he was instructed to remove his tongue because, other than that, that was going to be critical. So that was June, then October. We can see how that was the progress here, and I was terrible. Turbo. I was in November six, so I have a video here that the person here started to keep couldn't talk. I'm not going to play the video today, but here, basically we started here. So what I did, I said, Okay, let me just take a quick analysis, and I use the technology, and I found a high presence of heavy metals and toxins. And I say, Okay, let's see. That was back in November 12. It was, you know, these protuberances was exploded because of the cancer that was terrible. He was bleeding a lot, and I found a lot of lead, mercury, arsenic value. And I said, okay, and then going through the toxins and the free radicals and electromagnetic frequencies, that was also pretty heavy on those, on those parameters. So the progress continue, and on November 18, so basically, I attended this patient on November the 12th, but six days later, he started the protocol with using a lot of the you know nutrients in order to improve. I will share with you later the you know protocols that I use here. So then you can have a good idea here. So what you can see the progress here. So I started working very fast here, and this is what I found today. I had a meeting with him. So he said, Wow, I feel so good. So just in, you know, less than a month, basically, he started gaining weight again. He gained approximately that was from 69 to we saw like a four kilograms, which is great. He's sleeping. He's doing better. He said, pain level went down from 10 to three. But most important here is how fast these nutrients acted on this on this person. So that's one. I'm going to share another case, just real quick. And this is the other here. Let's see here. Okay, pull it off here. These two right here. This. This is really interesting, because this is a female patient, 57 years old, and this person presented a kidney failure in her kidney. Unfortunately, that was only 17% of functionality. Unfortunately, she lost her, you know, one of his hair kidneys, two years ago. So after three years of continue with these nutrients, with these adaptogens, from 17% that was basically went up to 100% after three years, this is what really impacted me. And I said, Wow, I think we can, you know, help a lot of people. So that was the first case that I heard from Dr Tony. And then I said, Look at this. I said, it's amazing, with only one kidney, how she improved her life in just three years, going out to 100% we have all of the medical reports that we can demonstrate this. This, you know, particular case. This is another patient that I got here in Mexico, patient 59 years old. He presented 41% functionality on his kidneys, and three weeks later he went up 11 points, so up to 52% he's sharing with me all of the medical reports, so we can, we can see this. You know, here, it's the the link, if you would like to see more on this, on this product, and of course, I'm going to be more than happy to share with you all of these protocols, so then you can have a good, you know, understanding and knowledge. Heather, are you there?

Speaker 1  53:51
I am. Can you hear me? Now? Yes, we can hear you now, excellent. I had to change to my phone because my computer went out, and that was very unfortunate timing. I'm so sorry I wasn't able to introduce you. Dr, Saleh, but thank you again, because it's always great to hear you and learn about your case studies and cardiovascular epigenetic proportions. I love to hear what you have to say and the science behind it, and I know the products are phenomenal. I guess I could say that, as for myself, I've received these products, and I have had huge benefit to my discomfort all throughout my body that I've had for decades, like three decades, and I'm just so thankful for the methylation and for the adaptogenic qualities of this, because I feel like I'm a new person. I have a new lease on life, being able to wake up and just not have pain, and be able to go about my day and and do all the things that I want to do, because I have a lot going on in my head all the time, all the things that I want to accomplish, and my discomfort was always holding me back. And since I found out about this different these technologies and these products I've I've definitely been very thankful about it. So thank you very much for letting us know about it. It's, it's always good to hear you, and it was a pleasure. And I've always enjoyed listening to your zoom. So it was great to be able to bring you to this one. And thank you, Dr Clearfield, for the opportunity as well. I loved listening to all of the integrative health professionals over the weekend at the conference. I got to hear for over the three days, and it was just such a pleasure. So thanks again. Did you have a favorite? I think you, of course, are my favorite, but I definitely heard some amazing information that stuck with me, and I knew, I knew that Dr salea would have fit right in. So maybe next year, or in six months,

Bill Clearfield  55:53
we're going to start, we're going to catch our breath here until the end of the year.

Speaker 1  55:57
Yeah, I think you need to, because that was quite something that you pulled off,

Bill Clearfield  56:01
yeah, and then we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll start take talking again. Yeah, yeah, take a break. Take a break. So okay, all right, anybody have any questions for? Dr Saleya,

Speaker 4  56:16
I have got any online questions. Yeah, good. Go ahead.

Speaker 3  56:21
So Dr Slayer, that was a great presentation. Thank you, Val, thank you. One of the curiosities here would be your case for the cancer patient. So when you treated that, did the patient undergo any chemo, radiation therapy? And if you did, you do the supplements along with it? Or was this just pure, the supplementation that you just

Speaker 5  56:45
that was along with the all of the chemical medical treatments. He was under chemos, and he was taking, you know, the drugs required for that. And, yeah, and I said, I was very clear, and said, You are not going to let this, if it's not your desire, allow me really to use high doses in order to really try to, you know, you know, offset those impacts. Because, you know, he was informed that he had to had that surgery in order to remove his tongue. So, I mean, you have nothing to lose. I mean, what do you want to do? And he said, Well, I'm afraid to not to use my my drugs anymore. Well, say, okay, all right, so if that's the case, I'm okay, but I'm going to have to use, you know, high dossification. You mentioned it very clearly, doctrine area. You said, you know, we are we cannot follow the rules of the labels. We have to use high doses in order to have a very high impact, knowing, particularly since the cancer cells are, you know, you know, distributing in about one inch every day, so we don't have time to do that. So I said, Okay. He said, and, and that was amazing. Just, you know, 20 days after his treatment. Salts are incredible. He's no longer being, you know, offer any other surgery. No more. He's not going to be required. Now he can talk, and he's so happy. He's gaining weight again, he's sleeping and he's doing perfect.

Speaker 3  58:16
Yeah, and then I think that's a good point that you brought up, Doctor Saleh, that that's how we make ourselves different from the the masses. Seeing a medical professional actually instructs our our patients and give them a little bit more confidence that the the labels are just guides. When you see a medical professional, they really know how to use these supplements to their maximum potential, and also watching out for side effects, and if you need to do some blood work that you need to to monitor the patient with and that's why, really doing this with medical professionals is very important. Yeah, I remember

Speaker 5  58:54
Dr Nerio was just for this patient in particular. I also gave him approximately 50,000 international units of vitamin D, and also 1000 milligrams of vitamin C daily. So he said, is that not too much? That's toxic. And I said, Just do it. We don't have time to lose. We don't have time to lose, and we got

Bill Clearfield  59:16
to do it. We, we. We covered the coimber protocol last week, as a matter of fact, so I'm sure is that that's something along those lines. Were very high dose vitamin C, somewhere along the lines of 1000 units per kilogram of vitamin vitamin D. Sorry, vitamin D, yeah, right. We covered that last week. There's some dietary restrictions with that, and you have to be careful with calcium and things like that.

Unknown Speaker  59:47
Absolutely, yeah, and it's Elysium as well silicon.

Bill Clearfield  59:51
You have another question, doctor, yeah.

Speaker 3  59:54
So when you were doing this therapy with the cancer patient, were you doing this while they were doing the the cancer therapy. Because the worry there, I think, where the question is coming from, is the overlap of oxidation versus anti oxidation. Is this something that you, I guess, considered during the creation of the protocol, or not, really, you gave it during the therapy as well.

Speaker 5  1:00:22
You know, that's a great question, because I didn't want to interfere, because his family was on top of me. And he said, Well, we don't want to lose the opportunity of the medical assistant that we get from the government, and we need to continue with this. And I say, okay, but I need to really create an antioxidant environment in which I can really offset the oxidation that I have from from the medical, you know, therapy for the kidney, because it's so aggressive. And the good thing here is that they accepted because they didn't have any chance to change their mind, because the surgery was scheduled for December the 10th, so tomorrow, so which is not going to happen anymore. Today, he received the good news of that surgery is not longer required. And I said, see that that's good. Now continue with your protocols. I'm not going to reduce the antioxidant, you know, dossification, until I see that we can have free of any kind of oxidation or, you know, sedative stress, and that's going to be the end of the treatment. And after that, then I will make some dust is adjustments, so then you can continue doing pretty well.

Speaker 3  1:01:35
Is that you didn't do the therapy. Oh, yes, along with the therapy, absolutely, chemo, radiation and everything. Yes, with everything that's on top of it, yes.

Speaker 5  1:01:42
That's why I had to go really high. As Dr Clearfield mentioned, I had to go really high with some other doses. Yeah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:49
Usually, at least around here, the oncologists will say, don't take anything else, just our stuff. How do you get around that?

Speaker 5  1:01:57
Well, he called me the oncologist, and he said, How are you planning to really interfere with my medication? He said, I'm not interfering with anything. I'm just giving him the opportunity of putting the nutrients on the cells inside the cell. That's what we need. Because no matter what you started with this case back in June, and now you are ready to go and go to the surgery and remove his tongue, so allow me just one month. That's what I told Dr Clearfield and Dr Neri. I say, give me only one month. You will see a good, positive change in one month. Number one, the inflammation will take place on it. Of course I like I put up a lot of of the antioxidants, and I use a new vinyl merix antioxidant, which is approximately 58% better than resveratrol. And I sell when I brought some of the encyclical crops from Argentina, and this is approximately 37% stronger than toxantine. And I say, I'm going to use those and I mean, I have nothing to lose. Just give me one month anyway. So you will continue with your medical treatment. Give me one month, and you'll see the results. And what you read in my report, which I'm going to be more than happy through Heather to share with you. And he's doing great. I mean, he said, How come the pain from 10 dropped to only two, and how come the the texture on his tongue has changed, I would say, in 82% improvement. So I told him, once we have this, you know, free of any kind of cancer cells, will do whatever it takes in order to recover the other remaining but now he can talk, he can sleep, and he can eat, and he can do many, many things in just three and a half months, three and a half weeks, that's it. And one of the good thing that I talked to, the oncologist said, I told him, the oncologist that one of the whole thing that we are talking here is that the nutrients that we have been using have been in the have been in use for over 13 years now. Say this is not a new stuff that came out, you know, three years ago. No, no, we have been using for 13 years. And most important, we have patients post cancer after 10 years with no return of any cancer cells, including my good friend Jose from Salt Lake City, is doing really perfect. He just he showed me his medical report. He said, I'm so happy because I am free of cancer. Of course, you gotta take this antioxidants and just continue with any kind of medical treatment. So but yeah, we are not interfering. We are also promoting a lot of the any kind of ozone therapies or any other kind of natural therapies that they can use for their benefits. Just move forward, and, of course, just delete, eliminate 100% sugar and some other, you know, inflammatory foods that are in use right now, which is really the big problem, right?

Speaker 3  1:05:17
So the device that you use, that pulse oximeter, they're asking, Are the results reproducible, or you only do that once? Or do you get different results when you do the test over and over again?

Speaker 5  1:05:30
Yeah, you can, you can see a comparison results month after month, how you can see on all of those 45 biomarkers. You can see how the improvement doing there. And of course, you will see that through the, you know, if I suppose green, as more green, you can see on the report, it is getting better. And good thing here is then, then you can, you know, ask our our patients, to really compare with any kind of blood test, or Mr. Rise, or any other kind so they can see the benefit. But yeah, you can follow. You can see the comparison month after month and the improvement in some of the biomarkers that we have there. Yeah, you can

Speaker 3  1:06:11
see that is that available in the US? It is, yes, absolutely. All right, so we're

Speaker 5  1:06:19
gonna ask Heather, how is to to have these link published for all of you? So then you can have that?

Bill Clearfield  1:06:25
Well, we'll, when you're done with your questions there. Dr Naria, we'll turn the video off, and then we'll get some names. Okay, okay.

Speaker 3  1:06:35
The the curiosity here is, you're saying nanotized formulations with data types formulations. Is there something that the patient needs to watch out for in terms of, are there your dangers, or labs that they need to use, I guess, or contraindications for nanotized versions of these adaptogens that you just mentioned?

Speaker 5  1:06:59
One of the good things here is that they don't need to be concerned or follow any kind of this stuff here. So after 13 years, we have not had any issue or any kind of, you know, contraindication about the adaptogens, because that's the importance of having a good clinical reference analysis, especially if you have all of the gold standard medical reports now you can, you know, compare that with our quantum technology and see where we need to attack first, which is the the the priority of the tissues or the organs that we need to work

Speaker 3  1:07:39
I think there's a request for you to show that adaptogen chart again in the chat, if you could do that for them. And also just to kind of back up with the nanotized in terms of that's why it's nanotized, meaning you have the ability to give the patient a reduced dosage and at the same time be more effective in terms of the effect. That's why the I'm assuming that adverse effects, side effects, overdosing, is very minimal. When you're talking about nanotizing a specific supplement, or, in general, anything that you nanotube, you just give lower doses, but better absorption.

Speaker 5  1:08:16
Absolutely, absolutely. Now the good thing with the adaptogens is that we have the ability, with the adaptogens, of freely making a good balance on the homeostasis of your body. It means that, for instance, with a diabetic patients, by using the Berberine in nanotechnology, with the adaptogens in the formula that we have, it is just amazing a patient with a blood sugar level on the range of, let's say, 240 milligrams per deciliter. Take the capsules to three capsules. They come to my office. I give them, you know, three capsules. I of course, I take the the reading, and 45 minutes later, I take the measurement again. He went dropped, you know, 120 milligrams per deciliter just in 45 minutes. It is amazing, of course. And I'm saying this is not the, you know, total solution you gotta, you gotta understand that we gotta work together in order to really keep and change your lifestyle so then you can make a really good improvement, and that's what we head into it?

Speaker 3  1:09:20
Yes, and a good thing that you mentioned about adaptogens in relation to nutrient absorption. So everybody has to understand that stress impairs nutrient absorption by diverting resources. So adaptogens enhances resilience, improve gut function, even support epigenetic stability, creating a synergistic effect with, again, the nano scale elements that you just mentioned for sustained vitality. So that's why giving you specific adaptogens improves that absorption in terms of nutrients and whatever supplements or vitamins that you're taking. So that's definitely a good approach towards your protocols, yeah.

Speaker 5  1:09:58
And for instance, looking at one of the product that I have, which is a nitric oxide precursor. It's sublingual, sublingual drops. And it is amazing, because it possesses five ways of keeping and boosting your nitric oxide in your body, which is it is incredible. Because most important here with the combination of the adaptogens, you can get the nitric oxide, the nitric oxide precursor, for almost stable up to 4.5 or five hours, you know, which is great, because you can use three droppers a day, and you are great. You are doing great because you can, you know, inhibit one of the critical enzymes, which is the protease enzyme. Which is this, the enzyme in which you are going to transport the virus, or the Microbiology in your virus, bacterias, funguses, or any other kind of microbiology by just, you know, improving your nitric oxide in your body. It is amazing how you're going to stop that protease and shine in order to stop that, you know, distribution of the, especially of the cancer cells or any other kind of, you know, bad cells. Let's put it on that way.

Speaker 3  1:11:21
All right. Dr solift, thank you for knocking out all our questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:25
Yeah, one thing, one one comment here, it seems the stack of all the supplements mentioned can have a negative effect on the HPA axis.

Speaker 3  1:11:33
No, I think that was the stack that I gave at the beginning of the presentation. That was the beginning. Okay, there are some some. There's other.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:41
Can we put up the the adaptogen chart again? Dr Saleya, let

Unknown Speaker  1:11:45
me, yeah, let me you may just put it here. Let me use here.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:02
Okay, let me just pull here.

Speaker 5  1:12:12
I think this is the one that you're right. Yeah, I have another case that I'm going to share with you, in a near future about a case in which a patient here in Mexico, he presented, you know, 52 events daily with the you know attacks and and it just amazing How in two and a half months, those you know, attacks were practically disappear, and not removing any of the, you know, medical, you know, treatment that he's having. But by using the adaptogens, it is just incredible. That's what I'm very, very surprised.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:57
Can we see, like, the next two or three slides where

Unknown Speaker  1:13:00
you had absolutely here,

Bill Clearfield  1:13:03
and that's, well, not so much that one, but you had that big Yeah, there you go. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:09
Not the one before my face.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:11
This one. This one here. There you go, yeah. Oh, okay,

Speaker 5  1:13:16
this is one of the and I'm gonna share with you this presentation, Dr Clearfield, I will send it to you.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:24
So this Tumba, this one, I'm Tumba vaqueros.

Speaker 5  1:13:29
This is a this is plant. This is on herb from Sonora, Mexico. This is an interesting one. This is an interesting one, especially for the epileptic seizures, which is the case of that case that it was presented to me yesterday, and it's, it is just amazing. Any patient with epileptic seizures by taking this Tumba vaqueros herb tactile Clearfield, you'll see incredible results. Incredible results. I'm not

Bill Clearfield  1:13:59
sure where we would get it, in Reno.

Speaker 5  1:14:01
I can, I can, I can share with you that later. No worries for that. Yeah, I want to be more than

Bill Clearfield  1:14:06
happy to do that. Okay, so, thank you so much, Doctor Saleya, don't go away. And next week, we have Dr Felice Gersh, who was on online with us, and she was giving us some of her thoughts on estradiol and progesterone, and she'll she'll continue that next week. 5pm Pacific, 8pm Eastern, same time, same station. We'll see you all there and check the email, weekly email for the the CME, if you need to CME, if you need the CME credits, and we'll let you know about the the CME, the videos and the slideshow for the conference. When it's ready. They told us. They told me, it could be ready today, but I haven't heard anything, so I don't think it's going to be ready for a week or two, but it's holiday season. We're not in any hurry. Just remember, we're not a forum. We're better and Dr saleeh and Heather, thank you so much for being here.

Speaker 5  1:15:11
Electric Clearfield, and unfortunately, I have to be at a forum next week, so I'm going to be there.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:18
The video is off, so now we're okay to talk about brand names. And you know, you know anything you want. You have any books, you have any your you know your website. I know you put the website up there. I didn't want to mention it because, you know, just sometimes the CME Gods get a little, little funny there. So So are these brand remedies that you have, especially like that one that I'm not really familiar with. And yes,

Speaker 5  1:15:48
they, yeah, it's vital health global. It's a company that started in Mexico, bringing all of the most of the raw material from Germany, and we enter the US market two years ago, and we are also in the Canadian market. And recently we are opening South America. We have been approved by Colombia, and we are moving to Europe pretty soon. Yes, Tumba vaqueros, I have one of the case question here from Kate Unger. Tumba vaqueros, is in the vital line. Yes, it is, it is there, and from ester is can be given to pregnants. Some of these adaptogens are exclusively for pregnant stir. So I want to be more than happy to share that with you. And we have introduced a new line for for children, for for youth, for for for, you know, for kids, which is amazing, the result that we have had there. And I ask Heather Hills Hollis to share with you the product portfolio, so then you can take a look at that. I have one here with me, but I will share with you Heather so you can share with Dr

Bill Clearfield  1:17:02
Clearfield Heather or Dr sale you want to, you can put the website up now. It's fair game. Now the video is off, so okay, can share that with us.

Speaker 1  1:17:13
Okay, hang on. We'll do so. This is a browse link. Oh, sorry, hang on.

Speaker 1  1:17:26
And I will put it up with the Browse link. If you go into the affiliate portion, then you can actually get your own scanner for being an affiliate. So that's actually a big bonus. Okay, okay, and the links been put up a few times. And just getting in there,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:45
the scanner measures again. What? What kind of measurements do you get from the scanner?

Speaker 5  1:17:52
You have more than 45 biomarkers, so you can see, how's the electrical charge in any kind of the you know, organs that you have, you have the the your liver. You can see your kidneys functionality. You can see your brain, nervous system working. You see the cardiovascular you can see your immune system. So you have a lot of information, I will, I'm going to be more than happy to share with you all of the information, technical information, technical information, so you can take a look at that and I report, so that you can see and go through, you know, explaining, you know, those biomarkers.

Speaker 1  1:18:30
What's really exciting is you get to have a baseline so that your patients can see where they are, and then if they can take certain products, and then they can come back three weeks, a month, two months later, and they can see the improvement, and it's right in front of them. You're testing, you're not guessing. And that's what's so great, is that you can actually visually see your 45 systems get better, you dumb asshole.

Speaker 3  1:18:58
Hello. What that was. Probably somebody's watching a bad movie that's not you guys, not us.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:11
It's called mute Anyway,

Bill Clearfield  1:19:14
okay, well, sorry about that. That wasn't us.

Speaker 6  1:19:20
So so at this website, do you have to first become a member and then you request to become an affiliate, or is there a separate application for that? I'm not sure that I see how it works.

Speaker 1  1:19:31
So this is a link so that you can browse the products, and then if you become an affiliate, which is not expensive, then you can get a scanner so it is, you know, up to you however you want to do it. We just put the Browse link in rather than the join link, but you can join from the Browse link. So it's up to you however you want to do it. You can browse around and look,

Speaker 3  1:19:55
you mentioned a saliva is that something that is available here in the US.

Speaker 5  1:20:02
That's what we are going to launch on the a forum. Yes, it's going to be available.

Speaker 3  1:20:07
Yeah, because we're do, I'm doing a lot of saliva, but it's all collected in tubes. If your

Speaker 5  1:20:14
saliva is in strips, and we're going to have it in strips, and yes, I will share with the heather eventually, this information, so then you can get it. You can approach those.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:24
Yeah, this is what I will on on your website,

Unknown Speaker  1:20:28
right? Yes, right.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:31
So the patient that you mentioned with the cancer, which ones? Which one was any one of these, or is there is the elite

Speaker 5  1:20:37
one, Doctor Clearfield, the Elite Pack. Yes, that one. Okay, and then it's going to be reduced to the PRO Pack and eventually to the builder pack as a maintenance

Bill Clearfield  1:20:50
Okay, so what's, what's, what's in all this, all this stuff.

Speaker 5  1:20:55
So we have the detox. We have the first the T detox. This is to clean your body completely. Vita Ren is for the kidneys functionality. And then you have the the Orion X, that's for the liver. And you have the 40 flora, which is to repair your intestinal flora. You have the thermal coffee that's in order to improve your metabolism. On the bottom we have on the left, we have the vinitro, which is the nitric oxide precursor. And we have the organics, Vita dole, that's for pain control, Omega three, with stacks and teens, a lot of the vitamin d3 and we have the S balance in order for the blood sugar control the energy. This is a combination of vitamins and amino acids to provide energy without taking those you know, Red Bulls and kind of you know, energetic drinks, vascular locks to improve your micro and macro circle, blood circulation. Neuro coffee is neuro coffee. This is excellent because it's composed of to repair your intestinal flora, to keep your stress level under control. We have a glutathione plus in drug leakage. We have a beta latch. Collagen. Here, the collagen that we have it is in the scale of practically four kilo altons, which it's a, you know, a guarantee that you will get your genes activated in order to produce collagen. Vi daily. It's a combination of vitamins and minerals along with spiraling Olga and chloride alga to remove heavy metals. And that's basically what we have from these package here.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:43
So you use all of these every day. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:22:47
that was a bump of nutrients.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:50
Are these powders in these packets? These

Speaker 5  1:22:53
are powders. Bill is a powder. Collagen is a powder. The glutathione Plus is a dropper liquid. And this is capsule, and the rest are capsules. And of course, the shakes is in in powder, and the coffees, which is instant coffee, in powder, the V energy, it's powder. So we have a combination, Dr Clearfield in capsules,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:14
droppers and powder. You mix the powders together, or

Speaker 5  1:23:17
they have to absolutely, yes, you can do it. Yes. I do that every day. Indeed, I was going to say, and also for kids. Before having the kids portfolio line, I used to have these ones and using as a vehicle the beat out Pro, which is the shake along with the capsule. So I had to instruct mothers to take, you know, half of the capsules and put it inside of the shake, so then they can have it for their kids. And, yeah, you can mix it,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:45
no problem. You don't get any interactions with all of these.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:49
No, not at all. No, not at all.

Speaker 1  1:23:53
And I've never felt better, and I had fibromyalgia for decades. And what I did was I did the cleanse, which is the tea, the vitern for the kidney, the Organix for the liver, and the glutation, plus for antioxidants. And I did that for a couple of weeks, and then I used the vital and the curcumax, and those are for pain and inflammation. And it is a new world for me. So I am very excited about these products.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:19
So I mean, use all of these Heather

Speaker 1  1:24:21
or do you I do now? Yep, I do. I just started slowly because it was a bit overwhelming when they all came in. I got the Elite Pack, and I didn't want to take something like I was worried about contraindications or whatever. I wasn't really sure. And I learned with education. You know, I learned a lot about it from the doctors, and I realized I could take them all at once. But I just started with the cleanse because I knew that was a good place to start for everybody for a couple of weeks anyway, go on the cleanse products so that your body's more open to receiving all of the nutrition. And that's what I did. And it was a, you know, it's been a fabulous journey. I'm so happy to be able to share it with you.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:58
Okay, okay, all right. Anybody have any questions about this? It's a lot of stuff. Here it is, yeah, yes. So it kind of reminds me of, I don't know if you were around then, that Mike, Mike beamer was trying to formulate a capsule with like, 30 different, you know, of course, everyone we mentioned, he, he was, he said you'd have to, he could get it into four capsules, you know, in to use in a day.

Speaker 3  1:25:32
So, and you had Acarbose, what's that you had akerbos halasa was requesting too.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:41
Ackerbos is a prescription drug, I

Speaker 3  1:25:45
know, but he remember, he wanted to formulate some weight loss supplement with akerbose in it, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:51
Well, he was, what period was that? Was that the methylene blue period or, yeah, that was like, that was the M lexin

Unknown Speaker  1:25:59
ox period, ages ago.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:02
He's always got, you know, he's got, he's always got the hit of the week, so

Unknown Speaker  1:26:07
the hip, not the tip of the week,

Bill Clearfield  1:26:10
whatever, whatever, whatever, whatever. Then, then there was cyclodextrin, right?

Speaker 1  1:26:16
Like, I've been on pretty much everything to try to combat my fibromyalgia. One thing would be MSM, and I took that and I saw a slight improvement. But the one that's in these products, it was very increased. It was an amazing difference. And so it must be the nanotechnology and the methylation, but it worked immediately. And I would say, within 20 minutes, I felt a difference. And this it's, really great with the way they put everything together and how the particles are absorbed.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:48
Okay, I just got a I just got a text message, by the way, Dr Nario from Tammy and Tommy, that you know they were, they entertained Friday night, and they say Tammy and Tommy, and I want to thank you so much for having us performed. We appreciated your hospitality. Means so much to us and for dancing. We missed you at the Elks collection. That was yesterday. Have a wonderful holiday. So that was one of our entertainers at the at the at our conference there, who brought the house down, and we brought the house down. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We did not need that. We changed the culture at that. So the hotel we were at was this little, tiny hotel, you know, was not a casino. Those of you don't know Reno it, you know, every, every place has a slot machines and and they had no smoking. It wasn't, it wasn't a casino. And they had a, I didn't even know first, when it first did the site visit. There was even a bar in there. It had this little, tiny bar area. When we did the second, the last site visit, I fully saw it, and there were like, three people in there, and I asked them if we could do the entertainment there, and, oh, no, it's quiet, and nobody you know, you're going to disturb all the guests. Well, after the first night, they came to me and said, We're going to our general manager, we're going to bring these people back for the the bartender was had a great time that the people who were not in our conference had a great time. So sorry,

Speaker 3  1:28:12
we even gave the one of the performers a permanent gig, right? They're going to hire him permanently.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:17
They're going to they're going to hire him right for as a regular. So sorry, I sorry. I got off topic. There a little bit so. Dr, sayella, do you have any we always like a little, wrap up, a little summary.

Speaker 5  1:28:30
Oh, that's, that's pretty much it. Dr, Clearfield, thank you so much to you and your group, and I'm going to be more than happy to share with Heather all of this information in detail. So then you can take a look at that. I'm going to be more than happy.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:42
And you have it, you have in the chat. It's okay. Now to mention the websites right here, I have it, you know, shared here, and here's the homepage, I guess.

Speaker 6  1:28:54
Okay, so who do you contact if you wanted to become an affiliate

Bill Clearfield  1:28:58
right here?

Speaker 6  1:29:00
It didn't come up for me. You're not seeing it on your screen. Oh, I see it on the screen. But I went to the website actually, and it didn't come up.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:08
Okay, that's, that's, I went to the homepage here, and that's all right, Heather, is that you doing the setup to push

Unknown Speaker  1:29:14
up? Yeah, that's me. I'm looking pretty good, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:29:18
Are there any samples that we could try.

Speaker 3  1:29:22
There's a for him, isn't it? You guys are going to be a for M you're giving out samples

Speaker 5  1:29:29
over there, not not for this particular product line. That's going to be next year, because we didn't have enough chance to do it this year. But for next year, we're going to be there for sure. All right, so I'm going to be there because of the saliva strips for testing cortisol and some other stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:44
Well, if you have any samples, bring them, because we have 40, right now, you got 40 to 50. You know,

Speaker 5  1:29:51
helpers spread Absolutely. Dr Clearfield, we will do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:56
You know what booth you're at? You know what number booth you're at? Because you know that place is ridiculous.

Speaker 5  1:30:01
Yeah, I will. I will share that with

Bill Clearfield  1:30:04
trying to try and find you Heather, send me a message, certainly.

Speaker 1  1:30:09
But there are the V daily comes in sticks, and so does the the cafe latte with 10 different mushrooms adapted in mushrooms in it. And those are wonderful that I would love to give you out as a sample when I see you.

Speaker 7  1:30:25
I had a comical question here. So for our crunchy patients, I've noticed at the mention of the term nanotechnology, they about run out the door. Is there any way to desensitize them to that?

Speaker 1  1:30:38
So you can just say nano scale. Because technically, I mean, nano technology can be misinterpreted.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:45
Yes, that's right, that was a doctor halasa buzz word at one time too, wasn't it?

Speaker 3  1:30:53
So he nanotizes particles, I think,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:57
yeah, the cyclodextrian and amlexanox and whatever, whatever else you know he's he's got his got his nano particles.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:07
That's what he uses. Nano particles, yes, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:11
And he puts them in nasal sprays, right?

Speaker 3  1:31:15
Not only that, he uses it IV. I think Doctor Patel knows this, and Dr Joseph. So he turns every, every medication into an amortized particle for IV injections, everything, all right, well,

Bill Clearfield  1:31:33
it's really walking the line, isn't it? More products are putting Is he done? What the hell he's doing?

Speaker 8  1:31:40
Steve has something to say. Yeah, I'm finding more products using the cyclodextrins, especially curcumin Allergy Research Group, and I believe zymogen has products that now use the cyclodex cyclodextrins to, you know, increase bioavailability.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:58
So so just for true confession, I wrote for a company called longevity next, and they have trans resveratrol, and that has cyclodextrian in it, and it's been they, and that was formulated in 2004 so with the cyclodextrin. So it's not all that new.

Speaker 3  1:32:23
Well, Dr halasa is now, I think his new project is cyclodextrin, loading it up with GLP once. So that's something that he's doing. He's in national pharmacy now in California, and he's trying to do this bling bully and intranasally. So just updates on the cyclodextrin relative, Dr halasa, but that's the new and up to date information. First off, the press.

Speaker 7  1:32:50
So pairing it with the cyclodextrin, can you use a lot lower doses of the GLP ones? Just yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:58
we'll find out, interesting. We'll find out.

Speaker 3  1:33:01
Go to a for him. He's gonna feed us. He's gonna connect us with the big wigs of a for him, I

Bill Clearfield  1:33:08
just want to know if he can get us into like, you know, like strive pharmacy last year, where they, where we had, they had dinner for us every night of the week, so he didn't have to go, you know, spend money in Las Vegas.

Speaker 7  1:33:20
Oh, I'm sure are any of you headed to the a forum conference in Orlando on the Dale Bredesen one? Just out of curiosity, I'll probably go to that one. Yeah, I was skipping longevity Fest and head into that one myself. When is that? It's in January. I don't 14th or 15th, something like that. I have to look up. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:43
Little too, little too quick. So, for me, so, yeah, so, oh, just, just as a word to the wise, though, I was sent a cease I don't know if I told you this a cease and desist letter from Novo Nordisk for having the temerity to use compounded semi glutite. So I had, I had three days to take it off my website and swear not to use it anymore.

Speaker 3  1:34:10
So why you? Why not direct you to the pharmacy where you're getting

Bill Clearfield  1:34:14
the I don't know. The only reason, the only thing I can think of is, you know, our clinic, my clinic, was named for the second year in a row, the best of Sierra Nevada. It's one of those. One of those, you know, best of magazines like Philadelphia Magazine. I used to humble

Unknown Speaker  1:34:31
brag there. Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:32
I we were the best. We were named for the second year in a row, best weight loss clinic in Northern Nevada. So that's, I'm guessing that that that would probably be the only, the only reason that I can think of, because that's crazy.

Speaker 7  1:34:46
It seems like there's a lot of providers here in Florida doing it through the compounding parties.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:50
You know, I did. I did a little search with my my new friend, chat, GPT, and I said, you know, give me a list of semi gluten clinics in Reno, in a reno area. And he came up with 15, you know, right off the bat, including one called the semi glutite specialist. So picked me out.

Speaker 4  1:35:09
I don't know that's exactly what Lily's doing, just just doing internet searches like that with AI. Oh, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:20
yeah, hide from Ai. That's the lesson.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:21
So, so, but, you know, if you go, go on Facebook, every every other picture is, you know, we're selling, we're selling semi glutide for, you know, $14 a shot. We're selling it for $8 a shot. You know, how low can you go, right? I mean, I mean, there's, there's like, I mean, there's dozens and dozens of ads for it. So, I mean, I don't get it so

Speaker 3  1:35:45
well, since everybody's plugging for a for m, I'll be lecturing module five in a for m. So that will be three days, December 12 to 14.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:53
And, yeah, we gotta, can you sneak us past the guard to get into that?

Speaker 3  1:35:58
Yeah, just give me a wink. They'll let you fly. They'll be there or be square,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:07
all right, okay, I'll be there too. And a little, a little hit on economy. I I booked a room across the street at the Treasure Island back in back in June, and I got it for less than $200 a night. Uh, night. So I think they're 350 to 400 there. And I know there are 500 and up at the Venetians. So kind of ridiculous. So alright, Carol, you'll be there with Quicksilver.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:35
Yep, I sure will. Okay.

Speaker 3  1:36:36
Are going to give us some freebies? Carol, yeah, alright. Alright. Right. Carol's booth, we'll

Bill Clearfield  1:36:45
find Dr Halas, it'll have some cyclodextrin, and you know, under his coat. Dr, Dr Saleh, thank you so much for being with us. We'll you know the price of being competent is we'll be in touch with Heather to have you on again in a few months for an update. Okay? And thank you. Dr peterfield, yeah. And Heather, let me know when you get when you find out what the booth is, what booth number, so we'll make sure, because I have you been to any of those? Dr Saleya, you've been to the a forum? Yes, every year it's a zoo. And see, I've been there every year for the last 15 years, I don't think I've ever seen so, you know, it's a zoo and a half.

Speaker 5  1:37:27
So that's true. All right, thank you, doctor, here for really appreciate the

Bill Clearfield  1:37:31
functional medicine. The functional medicine doctor's toy store. All right, Dr Gerber, you're awful quiet tonight,

Speaker 9  1:37:45
unmute, just just enjoying the show.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:48
When you give us your impressions of what went on over the weekend,

Speaker 9  1:37:54
last weekend? Yeah, yeah, you were there. I thought our conference was great, and I'm glad you're mentioning Gerber medical clinic and absolutely NEMA Nevada, homey advocate, integrative Medical Association being part and parcel of the show,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:10
it wouldn't have been the same without you.

Speaker 9  1:38:13
Bless your heart, I thought, I thought it was a good amalgamation.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:16
Yeah, I think we did quite well. And then the doctor levy was great. You were great doctor. Doctor Devlin was unbelievably I'd actually never heard him before, and wow, I'm waiting for the videos to come out, because I'm going

Unknown Speaker  1:38:33
to need to load information. He is. He is,

Speaker 3  1:38:36
I think one farm would like the word amalgamation. Yeah, he did.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:43
I thought home and far did a great job.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:45
Yeah, amazing, amazing job.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:48
Yeah, we had two. We had two dental we had Dr homo far, somebody else was, was in the dental world too, right? That would be your gal, the new one. Yeah, for me, yeah. You know, very broad based, you know, we had our veterinarian, we had people follow up surgery, yeah, and so we even had a radiologist there

Speaker 3  1:39:14
named Adam. So, Hi, Jeannie, alright.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:19
So, but after the first year, we'll start planning for the next one. Not necessarily have to be in Reno although it's easier for me and Dr Nario and we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll get it together. So anybody has any any suggestions or comments, please let us know. We'll have this video up as soon as we can. Those of you are going to be at a forum, don't be a stranger. And those of you that didn't make it will know that our conference was better.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:52
So we're not biased at all.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:55
No, not at all. Why would I be okay? Heather, if you're still on, thank you doctor. Thank you. Any parting shots, John.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:07
Oh, thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:11
Okay, alright. Man, a man of many words, okay, alright, everybody. We'll let you go home early today, and we'll see you here next week. Same time, same station, with Doctor Gersh, 5pm Pacific, 8pm Eastern, and whatever time it is in between. And yours, wherever you are, and if you're coming to Vegas, don't be a stranger. I will see you. Dr garrio, you're going to get me in into your talk, right, wink, wink. He sneak me in. Okay, we're not, we're not recording here so nobody, nobody heard that. Okay, good night, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Goodnight.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai