Unknown Speaker  00:26
Hello. Dr Clearfield, I think we're all good. Yeah, we're

Speaker 1  00:33
all good. Okay, good, very, very timely. Did you like the I changed the changed up the logo there. Did you? Oh, did you like that?

Unknown Speaker  00:44
I did. It was nice. Alrighty,

Unknown Speaker  00:55
and let's see I

Speaker 2  01:08
should I attach the PDF slides and the bibliography on the chat?

Unknown Speaker  01:15
Yeah, you can sure. Okay,

Speaker 2  01:17
that's where I figured to put it. Not really sure where else to put

Speaker 1  01:23
it. Nobody looks at them. Oh, no one looks at them. All right. I spent all this time doing the bibliography for these lectures, like for, you know, at ammg and A forum, and nobody ever looks at them, but they gotta be there.

Speaker 2  01:40
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I do think I don't know, yeah, chat,

Speaker 1  01:58
yeah, all right, so just relax. You know, folks sure they're in till, well, you've been on before, so they Yes, so just relax. We've got a very nice background there, the mushrooms. Thank

Unknown Speaker  02:16
you. I appreciate that.

Speaker 1  02:20
Very great, actually, timely for our practice, because we just started doing some neuro work and, oh, recommending I got, I don't know, you know, Dr Gordon. Dr

Unknown Speaker  02:31
Gordon had a sense familiar, but perhaps

Speaker 1  02:35
the head injury guy, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:38
the sounds familiar, yes,

Speaker 1  02:41
yeah. So he, he puts together stuff. So I got this from him. I don't Can you see that? I mean,

Speaker 2  02:48
look, I know because of the background this, oh, kind of, oh, I kind of see it's like a black label with a brain. Looks like a liquid,

Speaker 1  02:56
yeah, it's neuro shield. It's a micro neuro shield.

Unknown Speaker  02:59
Okay, cool

Speaker 1  03:00
irons, main, Chaga. Did I say that? Right? Yeah, Chaga, Turkey, tail, my taki and Rishi in it. That's great. And then it's got monk fruit.

Speaker 2  03:14
Oh, first as a sweetener, okay, that's nice. Well, that sounds really good. A good blend,

Speaker 1  03:20
yeah. The only problem is, it's, uh, 310 10, 10.5 ounces to take teaspoons before a meal. That's $99 for this. Wow, kind of, kind of steep, yeah,

Speaker 2  03:39
kind of steep, I have to tend to agree. And does it have other amino acids or no, that's it.

Speaker 1  03:46
That lecithin, glycerin, well,

Unknown Speaker  03:51
lecithin is good, yeah?

Speaker 1  03:55
Glucose, TV or so. It's whatever that is, yeah? Potassium sorbet seems a little

Unknown Speaker  04:03
steep from you know, but,

Speaker 1  04:07
yeah, take 10 milliliters daily. It's got 300 milliliters, so it should last a month. 99 bucks. That's a lot.

Speaker 2  04:14
That's a lot. Yeah, yeah, I tend to agree

Speaker 1  04:18
that's somebody's own ones. I don't know if you use them at all.

Speaker 2  04:22
I know, yeah, I know. But of them, you know, I still have my host defense stash. But I think they're a good product, and they have good research, especially their lions main they did a really good research paper on it, metabolomics. I think they did. It's published too. I that's a good product. That's a good company.

Unknown Speaker  04:44
Okay, yeah, so we started, I

Unknown Speaker  04:47
guess I shouldn't be talking about companies. It's supposed to be, I said omen. I said both two companies.

Unknown Speaker  04:56
Now, you know, I'll let you know when you're not supposed to talk about,

Speaker 3  05:01
right now. We're good. Right now. We're fine. It's just us

Speaker 1  05:05
recording now. All right, only we get Dr Burgess on that. We get trouble, right? Okay,

Speaker 3  05:13
you're already in trouble. Because now I'm curious, what's the name of that company with the lion's mane, the one that, Dr Clearfield had it, the one you say is good? Well,

Unknown Speaker  05:25
yeah, I think Go ahead. Dr Clearfield,

Speaker 1  05:27
this is ohm master blend. It's a powder. It's got 21 grams of protein in it, and then it's got Cordyceps, Lion's Mane, Rishi, shiitake. Intro dia organic, King trumpet, hang on.

Speaker 1  05:56
Anecdot organic, like taki organic, Turkey tails. It's just every one there is, right? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  06:03
here's one

Unknown Speaker  06:05
that I can't even pronounce. Is

Speaker 3  06:06
that the company home you're talking about? Yeah, OMA

Speaker 2  06:10
is a really good company. Yeah? Thank you very much. Yeah. I've

Speaker 3  06:13
been I had Guillain Barre, which, you know, affects the myelin sheath, similar things to the multiple sclerosis, and now I'm dealing with something called CI DPS, chronic inflammatory, demyelinating polyneurs. Oh, and guess what? I need to correct all of those three things, lions, Lion, lion's

Speaker 2  06:32
mane. Yeah, Host Defense, and, and, and om have done good research on the lion's mane, so

Speaker 1  06:41
I have you heard it, John, I have I got a I got this liquid from Doctor Gordon. He had and it's got six mushrooms in it.

Speaker 4  06:54
I think, yeah, $99

Speaker 2  07:00
bottle. Funny thing is, I think I'm going to talk about all six and plus another one. Yeah, so that's kind of funny. It's like you said it was, it was a Kismet. It was just perfect timing.

Speaker 3  07:17
So hey, by the way, I'm going to mention something, maybe I should or shouldn't, but I want to do it, but it's not eight o'clock yet. Dr Tano, you know, he publishes some wonderful material, the guys out of this world with his intelligence and skills. He just did a book with Dr Anthony James, you know, guy knows Anthony. He's a naturopath, and in Florida, and he just wrote something like a 400 page book on era Ayurvedic medicine, and I had a chance to review it, and it's sensational. So I just thought I'd mention that, because I think we're going to work with Dr Tano more and more. His skill level at publishing is out of this world. Anyways, I don't

Unknown Speaker  08:02
know he's, he's, he's a little too smart for us. He raises the bar here, a little bit too much.

Unknown Speaker  08:15
He's a thinker.

Unknown Speaker  08:17
Yeah, I know. So, yeah. Yeah. So he

Speaker 3  08:22
always, he's like, you bill, he always comes through every time he says he's going to do a book, a movie, a film or something, within a week. It's usually done. I don't even know how he can possibly produce the way he does, but this latest book on Ayurvedic and if we can use that with our integrative solutions, it'd be pretty darn great.

Unknown Speaker  08:45
Well, it's, you know, it's part of the deal, right?

Unknown Speaker  08:47
Part of the deal. Thank you.

Speaker 1  08:51
Ashwagandha is an Ayurvedic herb, right? Yeah, it is, yeah, legit Ayurvedic herb. We've used those things, I

Speaker 2  09:00
guess, technically, it's a mineral Shilajit, but it's like herbs that have been condensed in minerals. So,

Speaker 3  09:08
yeah, it's an Ayurvedic. We have a we have a third player in our group, because we're doing the Ayurvedic and we're also doing the homeopathy. And I know that Melvin's been working hard and homeopathy, and so is bill, but they're going to probably do some books on that too, and it's pretty needed.

Speaker 2  09:29
Dr Clearfield, you'll tell me when to share the PowerPoint Correct.

Speaker 1  09:38
Okay, so usually, usually, at this point in the show, we get Dr Nario to give us the tip,

Speaker 2  09:45
okay, okay, you'll tell me when. I just didn't know when we get

Speaker 1  09:52
this. This is we get our, our integrative, okay, webinar, without having to go to school, because we get it from Dr Nario. So he gives us the highlight of the week.

Speaker 5  10:08
I wish, I wish I'm contributing to everybody's knowledge well, so in our course, recently, we're into the medical, legal stuff. So we actually have discussed about safety in terms of integrative medical practitioners promoting themselves out there in the social media world or the internet world. So we already know about what ticks off FDA or FTC, right? You know the cure, the treat, words instead you support, promote, and even the proven and clinical, pre proven, we don't do that you want to do research suggests or studies indicate. So the ones that stood out in our lesson is actually the we discuss about patient testimonials. So this is something that's being used in websites, and the rule here is so a good example that was given in the class was a patient would say I had stage four cancer, but this clinic saved my life. So there's a problem with that, even though it's true testing testimonials that suggest typical or expected results are very tightly regulated. So you can get an issue with that. So what is a better statement for that testimonial would be maybe after incorporating nutritional, integrative support, I felt more energized and resilient during my treatment journey. And always, when you have a testimonial posted, always add a disclaimer on the bottom saying, individuals, Individual results may vary, and it's not a substitute for standard cancer treatment, so always have that extra message down there. And another one that's a common mistake would be implying standard of care legitimacy, meaning, a good example, again, would be saying all oncologists are now using IV vitamin C. The problem with that is it's a misleading statement about what's widely accepted in conventional medicine, which can be flagged as deceptive. So the solution, how to phrase that properly, is some integrative oncologist explore high dose vitamin C as a complementary approach, though it remains investigational and conventional in conventional oncology, so you can see how you kind of like backpedal again. And another one that's pretty famous would be off label use, and sometimes it gets promoted. Like example, semaglutide can be used to treat depression. Again, clinicians can prescribe off label, but promoting it online as a treatment crosses into marketing territory. So another way to state that is semaglutide is FDA approved for weight management. Some clinicians are exploring its broader metabolic effects, though, more research is needed, so you always have that kind of, like pulling yourself back while you dive in there. So again,

Unknown Speaker  12:51
easel words,

Speaker 5  12:52
yeah, kind of like you outsmart them guys, the higher ups. So these are, again, this, this were surveys done in integrative practices, and this is where the common pitfalls happen in relation to advertising and social media. So again, these are the ones that hit me. I don't know. There's probably more out there. And also, one caveat, always put something in your website, especially if you're promoting integrative therapies. These statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose, treat, a cure or prevent any disease, so always put that in there. If you have something that you kind of like, question or think you get, you're going to get dinged for. So that's our medical legal lesson that I can impart to you guys. There you

Speaker 1  13:35
go. Okay, alright, alright. Well, I hope everybody had a good week. I don't know if Did anybody notice that I changed the logo a little bit this week. Made it a little bit more

Unknown Speaker  13:49
so you tell them the story about that?

Unknown Speaker  13:53
No, I don't know the story. It just looks good.

Unknown Speaker  13:58
Dr Bill had a moment when he heard the word mushrooms, and he saw retro colors coming out of the sky.

Speaker 1  14:06
Whenever I hear mushrooms, I think of Doctor, Doctor Burgess.

Unknown Speaker  14:13
I know nothing

Speaker 5  14:16
the fun days. Yeah, so you're probably going to, yeah, differentiate that social with your lecture today. Well, yes,

Speaker 2  14:25
well, a little bit. We're talking about functional mushrooms, not the some of our audiences. Oh, no, I hope not.

Speaker 1  14:37
You're gonna lose some of our audience. We, there was there, was our, our deceptive advertising, right? Oh no, right, it's our deceptive advertising.

Unknown Speaker  14:50
You caught them. You caught them.

Speaker 1  14:54
So, okay, all right, well, I'm looking for the intro here, but Dr Palomino, why don't you introduce yourself? I

Speaker 2  15:03
am Dr Sochi Palomino. I'm a naturopathic physician. I've been working in I saw patients for 11 years and taking it those years, I worked with sub repping and demonstrating with different various companies, mushroom companies, and also like supplement countries. And then the last five years, I've been the national practitioner channel educator for Host Defense. So, but yes, I've, I've been seeing patients for 10 years or 11 years, and so been using and integrating these in my practice, and also seeing the interest of mushrooms growing, and I think all of you have also and with the new research coming out. So I'm going to go ahead and start sharing the PowerPoint, because I don't think it's up yet, if I'm not mistaken. Oh, all right,

Speaker 5  16:04
so while you're setting that up, let me add I have your intro here, naturopathic doctorate degree at Bastyr University, and her undergraduate degree in molecular, cellular and Developmental Biology at the University of California Santa Cruz. Is that right? Yes, okay, there's more, but I think you're going to start Yes,

Speaker 2  16:25
I'm trying to, trying to find the PowerPoint. It kind of just disappeared on me. So I'm going to try again few more.

Speaker 5  16:36
Her first exposure to benefits of herbs and plants was with her Mexican mother at seven years old, whenever an ailment would manifest in the desire to further learn, persistent throughout her adulthood. During her undergraduate and graduate education, Dr Palomino received four biomedical research grants from the NIH during her studies at Bastia. Her education included Ayurvedic medicine, Western herbs, fundamentals of Chinese medicine, homeopathy, aromatic medicine, biofeedback and yoga therapy. Oh, you're one of us. Homeopathy. For over five years, Dr Palomino has been a member of the National Science and Education team of post defense, where she has educated healthcare practitioners, pharmacists, retail staff, naturopathic organizations and consumers on the benefits of mushrooms. She also educated healthcare professionals, retail staff, pharmacists, oh, you said that for over 15 years in natural products industry, medical conferences and state naturopathic organizations. Dr Palomino has been the practitioner channel, educator for Host Defense mushrooms since 2020 and she has enjoyed developing and presenting practitioner level webinars and lectures. She looks forward to providing lectures to share her expertise and knowledge for all levels of understanding all yours. Dr, Bama, all right, I'm

Speaker 2  17:58
going to minimize this so we can look at the screen here a little better. All right. Well, welcome everyone. This is the webinar, seven synergistic mushrooms for Longevity for All here from the homeopathic board of Nevada and the American Osteopathic Society of integrative medicine. So some housekeeping items, I think some of you have seen that. There is a copy of the slides, a PDF, and also a bibliography going by each slide. If you're interested in the research that was used to develop this webinar. I know maybe most of you won't use it, but if you're ever curious to get more details, it's there in the chat, attached as a document. Okay, let's continue. And as many of you are aware, there's a massive interest in mushrooms lately, and the field of longevity medicine, well, that's been a hot topic for some time now, but the concept of mushrooms supporting a healthier and longer life is an ancient one. In fact, reishi, the Ganoderma lucidum in ancient ancient Asia, was only reserved for the royal families, and it was known as the mushroom if immor immortality. So you can see that the notion of mushrooms supporting our lives, even potentially extending it is well known in ethnomycology. While many cultures have known the benefits of mushrooms in its support of longevity. What we will review today is the science of healthy longevity. We'll review the mechanisms of action of seven mushrooms, and that would be reishi, cordyceps, Royal sum, lesai, mataki, Massimo, lion's mane and Chaga. And we're going to go over their benefit of impacting cellularensis In particular, and just to jog our memories of what sentences is, is the condition or process of deterioration of ourselves with age. So essentially, the loss of ourselves to divide and grow appropriately, and all of the motions I just mentioned support longevity via different biochemical pathways, as you kind of can see here on the slide. So some of those pathways are by quenching free radicals, cell telomere protection, balancing telomerase enzyme expression and even cellular energy production. We will also go through the benefits and concerns of each mushroom in a clinical setting, and that'd be like halfway through the webinar, so you can have a better understanding the clinical setting and how to use these mushrooms. So let's get into it. And as our understanding of aging has advanced, modern science has revealed numerous insights into how we might extend human lifespan and improve our quality of life. This area of research is rapidly evolving, with breakthroughs happening in genetics, cellular biology, metabolism and nutrition. In fact, many of you may know of Brian Johnson, the former owner of Venmo, and he's on a mission of not only reversing the aging process, but to live forever, which is interesting, but so just to show that there's a lot of breakthroughs that are emerging in this field, and there's a classification of new drugs or compounds called senolytics are being researched and known, and What they do is they arrest the development of senescent cells, also known as zombie cells. So in our webinar today, what we're going to do is we're going to look at these exciting new areas of research and how the inclusion of beneficial mushrooms in a daily wellness regimen can be an excellent strategy to promote healthy, long lives. All right, so it's a hard truth some days and sometimes it's harder on some days than others, that aging is an inevitable and it's also a major cause of many diseases. Scientists have linked cell sinensis, when cells stop dividing, but don't die, to aging. These zombie cells, what they do is they accumulate over time, leading to inflammaging. And I think a lot of you know that's the combination of inflammation and aging, and this contributes to diseases that shorten health span. So as we age, senescent cells increase, impacting chronic disorders and the corresponding health care costs. Normally, the body regulates these senescent cells through apoptosis, program cell death, but this often, these cells often resist this process, and that's therefore posing health risks. And oh, sorry new ones. Pardon. Doctor, oh, sorry, doctor, Dr, Berges is, are you asking a question? Okay, I'll keep on going. Okay. So these can have a risk to not only are the senescence cells are not only problematic, but they also can harm healthy and nearby cells. So research suggests that cellular sentences may drive aging. So understanding how sub cellular damage relates to visible aging is crucial. Studies on senolytics are revealing the connections between aging and the role cellular senescence plays in this natural process. It even appears that there are various pathways through which mushrooms, herbs, along with some supplements, diet and lifestyle changes, can contribute to the removal of these pernicious zombie cells that are implicated in the aging process. Ironically, the prevalence of age related diseases is increasing due to our increase life expectancy. So there's a the irony of that. And according to one researcher, the estimated night natural life expectancy of human was approximately 30 years. But there have been investments over the past 150 years that have led to improved working conditions, housing, sanitation and medicine that's extended life to about nearly 80 years in most developed countries, the downside of longer lifespans is that a significant fraction of the population now experience age related tissue deterioration and diseases of aging, our genetic blueprint confers fitness and vitality, vitality earlier in life to maximize reproduction and the rearing of our our spring. But multiple factors can impact the rate at which we age, such as genetic and epigenetic factors, cellular stability, stress levels and nutrient intake throughout a lifetime. In fact, current research is showing that nutritional intake from gestation through the 50th year of our lives is critical for setting the stage for health and vitality throughout a person's life once adulthood is attained, there are many healthy aging strategies we can employ. These can include calorie restriction, intermittent fasting, physical exercise, enhancement of adult neurogenesis, stress reduction practices and a healthy diet, which includes plant and mushroom compounds such as antioxidants that can support our health and longevity. So first, let's discuss epigenetics and go over some basics to get our brains going about about the genome. So the term epigenetic epigenesis has Greek origins, and it means over and above the genome. Epigenetics is how our gene expresses themselves dependent upon the stressors or supports that come from the environment, so much more like the nurture over nature situation. Epigenetics can be used to describe anything other than the DNA sequence that influences the development of an organisms. Epigenetics refers to external modifications to DNA that turn genes on or off, and these modifications do change the DNA sequence, but instead they affect how cells are red and basically how our genes are read.

Speaker 2  26:11
Research shows that nutrition plays a significant role in regulating the epigenome. Certain food components enhance DNA repair enzymes that support cell health and longevity. Whole plant foods, rich in antioxidants, can reduce DNA damage. Compounds like revetrol from purple fruits, bicogenol from pine bark and various mushroom compounds like terpenes and polyphenols help support DNA integrity, Nutri epigenomics examines how food nutrients affect health through epigenetic modifications. Evidence links nutritional imbalances during pregnancy and lactation to conditions like obesity, cardiovascular disease and cancer. A study in the journal Nutrition and cancer and cancer, as you see on the slide here discusses dietary bioactive food constituents and their epigenetic effects on liver cell morphology. So there are antioxidants like EGCG, the short version for epigallocatechin galate, resveratrol, curcumin and sulforaphane, along with polyphenols, bioflavonoids, folic acid and omega three fatty acids support the epigenome. Additionally, nicotinamide, derived from vitamin b3 is crucial for energy production and acts as an antioxidants and mushrooms boost nicotinamide levels and engage in other antioxidant activities. So overall, these compounds positively influence gene expression, showcasing the beneficial epigenetic support mushrooms can provide. There are two very powerful molecules that be that may be allies in reducing oxidative damage, glutathione and spermidine. Glutathione has been called the master antioxidant because of its critical roles in metabolic mechanisms and pathways. There is emerging research indicating mushrooms can naturally produce both glutathione along with reduced forms of glutathione, which are absorbed more rapidly. And there are new studies on a polyamine called spermidine, and spermidine has been shown to have anti aging properties, down regulating inflammation and counteracting oxidative processes. Spermidine has been found in several mushroom species. Mushrooms produce compounds that support our internal antioxidant activity. Antioxidants, what they do is they stabilize oxidized molecules by donating electrons. So the mushrooms, Reishi Chaga, Royal Sun blazia, contain varying levels of antioxidant quercetin. Lion's Mane, cordyceps, Reishi Massimo and mentaki produce phenolic compounds with preliminary, preliminary studies showing that lion's mane mycelium supports antioxidant enzymes like superoxide, dimutase, glutathione, peroxidase and catalase. So this antioxidant activity may support the gene cert, one, which will go more in detail shortly. But for those that may not or may may know or may not know certain one is just one of the sirtuin family of D acetylace Is that are crucial for metabolism, aging and DNA repair, but we'll get back to that later. So this continue with reishi, as you see on the screen here, the second one on the chart, Rishi produces this species specific antioxidant called ganodoric acid. It's a triterpenoid antioxidant that could benefit lifespan and vitality. Additionally, all the mushrooms contain the unique amino acid antioxidant ergothione. And don't remember Reishi was the mushroom of immortality, so maybe those antioxidants are part of the reason. So let's continue with the ergothioneine. And there's recent advances have in have enhanced our understanding of ergothione, including the discovery of a specific type of ergothione transporter on cell membranes in complex organisms, in humans, while its full physiological role remains unclear. Ergothione has demonstrated significant antioxidant and cytoprotective effects in both in vitro and in vivo studies, including free radical scavenging, immune modulation, UV protection and neurological support. Ergothionine is concentrated in tissues often exposed to oxidative stress, like the lens of our eyes, our liver, our bone marrow and seminal fluid, and it's more stable in our blood than glutathione. Only certain bacteria in non yeast fungi synthesize ergothion, ergothionine, while mammals must obtain it from their diet. So a good source of plant based ergothione are black beans or oats, and many mush and species are known to produce ergothionine as well. There's an increasing effort to standardize ecothionine as a key antioxidant in the mushroom supplement industry. And different because this is partly due due to the unique properties and potential health benefits. But however, standardizing one antioxidant like ergothionein can be complex, because while ergothione is significant, many mushroom species contain a diverse array of other antioxidant compounds that also contribute to their health and benefit. For instance, we're back to Reishi again. Despite having low levels of ergothione, we are it is well known that there are very powerful antioxidant effects due to other bioactive compounds such glutathione and also the terpene ganoderic acid, as well as other polysaccharides. So these compounds may drive various antioxidants pathways that work synergistically, and this highlights the importance of considering the overall antioxidant profile of mushrooms rather than focusing slowly solely on one compound. All right, so now let's discuss an important short chain fatty acid with antioxidant properties, and that is butyrate. So butyrate is a powerful postbiotic short chain fatty acid formed in our intestines as a byproduct of bacterial fermentation of dietary fibers, and it also can come from fermented foods also. So not only can we make our own short chain fatty acids like butyrate from our own gut ferment tank, but fermented foods that we eat can also have short chain fatty acids within them. So one example, as you could see on the slide, is the butyrate produces during fermentation that further supports gut barrier function through the stimulation of mucus production and tight junction assemblies and minimizing antigen translocation and inflammation. Butyrate also regulates inflammatory pathways through G protein coupled receptors in our enterocytes and through the inhibition of histone deacetylase In macrophages. And remember, histones, they wrap around our backbone of our DNA, so that's one way it can affect that. And furthermore, G protein couple receptor signaling in our enteroendocrine cells induce secretion of hormones like GLP one glucagon, like peptide one and peptide yy that acts in many organs, including our brain. And remember, maybe you don't know, peptide YY is a small peptide that reduces our appetite. So mushrooms may support in this function in safety, I'm going to point it out here in safety or appetite control, and also in its antioxidant activity. So it has great anti inflammatory effects, as you can see here. As I'm pointing out, one study found that a blend of oyster Reishi and mataki mushrooms significantly increased butyrate levels in participants, participants making 53.1% of total short chain fatty acids as compared to the 20% 27% in the control group. So this substantial difference may not only influence overall well being, but also may support longevity. Research on fermented brown rice products also shows they can enhance short chain fatty acid production, including butyrate production. A study of a fermented brown rice drink with beneficial probiotic species observed higher butyrate levels, offering insights into mycelial fermented foods roles in digestion butyrate may promote mitochondrial health and reverse sentence itself through epigenetic modifications. It affects autophagy, a process that recycles damage components by inhibiting key regulators of metabolism like AMPK, adenosine mono phosphate protein kinase. I'll go over more on AMPK later, like with the cert one in the webinar. But back to butyrate. So additionally, butyrate might help maintain telomeres. Inflammation and oxidative stress both accelerate telomere shortening, so ameliorating that process is a good idea if you want to extend your life with longevity senolytics, all right, so now let's explore research on telomeres and their impact on cellular health.

Speaker 2  35:51
So telomeres, as you know, are essential part of human cells that affect how our cells age and then also how we divide ourselves. Research suggests that telomeres are related to aging process, and there is a strong correlation between the telomere shortening rate and the lifespan of a species. Telomeres are the caps at the end of DNA that protect our chromosomes, like the plastic tips of the end of shoelaces without the coating, shoelaces become frayed until they can no longer do their job. Just as without telomeres, DNA strands become damaged and our cells can't do their job properly, they can't divide properly, or their cells can't function well. So the body of research on telomere length, the activity of the enzyme telomerase and their impacts on Aging is a growing field, and it's growing rapidly, there are indicators that preservation of telomeres during cell division can support the whole organism through maintaining healthy cell DNA and healthy cell reproduction. Shortened telomeres may be responsible for some of the negative aspects of aging, such as diminish diminished cellular functioning and DNA anomalies, this can manifest as declining cognitive functioning or decrease energy production. So diminished cellular functioning can also cause slower cellular repair in the case of injury or just normal degradation, this is a process of sinensis. One way telomeres are managed is through the telomerase enzyme activity. Telomerase is an enzyme that adds nucleotide sequences to the end of chromosomes. Nucleotides are, as you know, organic molecules that are the building blocks of DNA and RNA, they help to maintain the length and integrity of telomeres, which is crucial for cell division and longevity in most cells, telomerase is either undetectable or acting or active at a very low level, but it is highly active in rapidly dividing cells like the lining of our lungs, our gastrointestinal tract, our bone marrow, marrow, or especially developing fetuses. This activity allows these cells to divide many times without damage or apoptosis. However, telomerase is also abnormally active in most cancer cells enameling and enabling uncontrolled tumor growth so appropriate. Telomerase activity is essential for longevity, and longevity too much can accelerate tumor growth, while insufficient cells activities can hinder stem cell differentiation into specialized cells, like T cells or cardiomyocytes. For example, this study identifies that chronic infection and oxidative stress can lead to dysfunctional immune responses in aging. T lymphocytes, these cells lose telomerase activity and experience progressive telomere shortening. Eventually they reach a critical short length associated with sinensis impacting immune function as we age. There may be other beneficial lifestyle habits that can also support epigenetic influences upon longevity. So chronic psychological stress has been linked, not only to reduce T cell function and increase pro inflammatory cytokine responses, but also to shorten telomere length. Evidence is beginning to emerge from peer reviewed research that stress reducing interventions may improve telomere length and telomerase activity. Numerous researchers over the last number of years have discovered that followers of mindfulness practice tend to have longer telomere length than individuals who do not practice mindfulness techniques. This study you see on the screen there looked at effects of mindfulness based stress reduction in addition to the established benefits of mindful Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction in reducing psychological and physical symptoms. This study provides evidence that mindfulness practice also increases telomerase activity in healthy immune cells. Loving Kindness, or metta meditation, is a type of meditation practice that focuses on developing a positive intention, unselfish kindness and warmth towards all people. The research in the second study found longer relative telomere length in the individuals with many years of experience and loving kindness metta meditation compared to those who do not meditate. I don't think that's news to people, but I think it's an interesting information mushrooms are capable of impacting both telomerase inhibition in this dysregulated cell replication and telomerase in healthy cells. Telomerase induction in healthy cells, this leads to potential adaptive or regulatory impact that is influenced by mushrooms, as you can see here on the screen. This is yet another way that mushrooms help our body function optimally and adapt to according to our underlying terrain or constitution. So in a nutshell, telomeres protect the ends of genetic material as it goes through cell divisions. If cells age poorly, the telomeres become shorter. Shortened telomere length has a relationship to the negative aspects of rapid aging, and may also contribute to improper cell division or even cell function. So now let's look at additional emerging research on healthy longevity, which is centered on the cert one gene, as I promised we would talk about that. As the science of genetics has progressed, we know now that some genes are linked to disease states. We also know that there are genes that, when it activated, may modulate gene expression and the manifestation of disease. If you add in beneficial epigenetic influences, antioxidant activity, preservation of telomeres, and add the activation of specific genes you may have the makings of a long and healthy life, the certain gene and its Express enzyme has over 136 direct interactions with numerous metabolic processes and can Reduce the expression of potential deleterious genes. Current research is finding that stimulating the cert one gene is a powerful management tool affecting overall health and longevity. So how can we activate the cert one gene? Currently, only a few effective methods are known to turn on these genes have been discovered. So let's start with one one effective approach is following a restrict caloric diet or an alternate day diet, while challenging to maintain long term these diets are backed by scientific research and may exert epigenetic and certain one influences on influences on various tissues and issues, including metabolic and inflammatory markers, other ways you can support engagement of the cert one gene include sunlight exposure or taking vitamin D, because we know adequate sunlight exposure can help boost vitamin D levels, which has been linked to increased cert one expression. Other but potentially beneficial interventions are hot, cold or even contrasting hot, cold, physical treatments associated with with stress, shock proteins all support certain one dependent pathways, certain compounds found in herbs and mushrooms have been also found to support certain one expression and antioxidant. Rich foods show rich foods show strong up regulation of certain one activity. So this means such mushrooms as reishi, Chaga, Lion's Mane, mataki, cordyceps, misima and royal sun, blazia can positively influence certain one gene expression and enzyme activity. So let's further look at some research connecting the dots between mushrooms and certain one gene expression. The first study on the chart is a research article from 2018 where we see how Reishi promotes certain expression and beneficially supported kidney cell function and reduce kidney cell sinensis, cordyceps, the next one, the second row, cordyceps, millitars was found to reassert normal certain one expression that can positively impact sperm viability and age related decline. And remember that cellular transporters that every human cell has for ergothione that I mentioned earlier. Ergothioneine increases antioxidant activity and certain gene expression that can beneficially impact healthy cell aging. A third method to activate Sir One genes involves influence AMPK processes in the body. So AMPK

Speaker 2  45:00
also known as activated protein kinase, is an enzyme crucial for cellular energy balance and longevity, which is found in various tissues like our liver, our brain and our skeletal muscles. During exercise, AMPK helps muscle cells adapt to energy demands. Additionally, AMPK stimulates certain one gene expression. So besides moderate exercise, fasting sunlight, vitamin D and certain nutrients can all Activate, Activate this rescue gene known as cert one. And interestingly enough, reishi, cordyceps and Chaga not only support energy levels skeletal muscle, function and promote recovery after exercise through their antioxidant effects. But all three species or compounds within them have also been shown in published studies like these three examples to support the activation of anpk. So there's many ways these mushrooms can support aging, I should say healthy aging, all right, so you see this chart. It's pretty comprehensive. It kind of goes over what I just discussed in one visual. And one of the important takeaways I would like for you to take from today's discussion on longevity is that we all have the ability to influence good gene expression based on our dietary, exercise and stress reduction habits. So this chart shows how Seven species of mushrooms may impact on every aspect of healthy aging we covered in today's webinar. The chart illustrates a pathway supported by these seven mushrooms, and you can see it includes certain one gene activity, AMPK activation, mitochondrial ATP formation and nicotinamide promotion, as well as their role in promoting cell membrane integrity. And this is due to antioxidant activity, typically together, these factors enhance beneficial gene expression, preserve DNA during replication and support metabolic processes. And now we're going to discuss a little bit about how zombie cells may not be so bad for I know it's kind of

Speaker 2  47:13
contradictory, but I remember when I was in a molecular biology course in UC Santa Cruz, one of my professors was talking about the issues with longevity research. He was talking about immortality in particular, and he brought to us the idea of continuously dividing cells, because if you live forever, your cells need to divide forever. And there lies the rub. You want longer living cells that have healthy telomeres, but you don't want your cells to mimic cancer with uncontrolled telomerase activity. I'm sure many of you remember hella cells, the Henrietta lack how that was one of the first cervical cancers that would they're done as of today, since 1950s using those cells because they continuously divide uncontrollably. So sure you want your cells to hold on to your telomeres, but it is unclear whether telomerase, adding telomeres ad infinitum is such a good idea. And there is research that you see on the slide indicating it is really about Balanced telomerase activity that may be the way for healthy longevity. It appears there are two different senescent cells that modulate telomerase activity. These two types of senescent cells, as we see on the screen, are D for detriment, like up here, little three Ds and H for helper. Senescent cells you can see there and D senescent cells have a pro inflammatory, pro apoptotic tissue damaging, and are successful susceptible to senolytics. H sinensis cells are not cleared by senolytics. H sinensis cells appear to promote STEM and progenitor cell determination into appropriate lineages and functions and have a beneficial impact on tissue homeostasis. Eight sinensis cells might account for 30 to 70% of all of our senescent cells. There is speculation that could be mechanisms through which D and H senescent cells can enter convert, but that remains to be fully explored. D and H senescent cells may both have beneficial functions, including remodeling of tissues during development, release of factors by placental sentence and cells during childbirth that promote passage and the infant through the birth canal, removal of damaged tissues during initial phase or wound repair and immuno responsiveness on mutated cells. Cellular sentences can protect against mutated cells, leading to replicative, replicative arrest of cancer cells, as well as a pro apoptotic activity. So much like in life, moderation is key here with clearance of sinensis cells and merely promoting telomerase activity may not be so wise, so perhaps balanced telomerase activity is the way to go. And many of us know through our integrative medicine training that formulas of herbs and mushrooms can be more powerful than the individual herb or mushroom by itself. The concept of synergism, or the entourage effect, has been around for quite some time. This study you see on the screen was published in the International Journal of medicinal mushrooms on a seven mushroom formula, the seven mushrooms we just reviewed that demonstrates the power and synergy of mushrooms when they're taken in a formula together. The seven species blended mushrooms, mycelium and fermented rice was tested using in vitro cell model methods. The study showed that the murine macrophages, or mice macrophages and human spleen, natural killer cells, activity was more active with formula when compared to the activity of the single mushroom species. So just further supporting the ancient notion that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. So now we're going to go to go over the benefits and concerns of the seven motions we just reviewed in a clinical setting. The benefits will be on the chart and the concerns will be at the bottom of the screen of the chart, and one note, item of note, anyone about to get an organ transplant or has received an organ transplant, should not eat culinary mushrooms or take any mushroom supplementation. All right, let's begin. So this will start with Reishi. There was a study of 64 women with fibromyalgia that took six grams of Reishi per day for six weeks, experienced significantly improved aerobic endurance, lower body flexibility and velocity. Another study of women with fibromyalgia taken six grams of Reishi for six weeks observed improved levels of happiness and satisfaction with life, and reduced depression were evident at the end of the treatment. There is a study of Reishi mycelium and its fermented substrate that found it to provide gentle and nuanced support for immune functioning. This data suggests that Reishi may be an ally for a person with sensitive biochemistry, supporting modulatory and pacification activity. There's also data that is concerned about the Reishi fruit body potentially aggravating those with overreactive immune systems. So if you have clientele with overactive immune systems, maybe stick to the Reishi mycelium and not the Reishi fruit body. There are other concerns or other concerns to go over, but Reishi and a study where 19 batches of products of reishi, herbal mushroom supplements purchased in the United States were evaluated. It was stated the event when we evaluated what was stated on their label, I'm sorry about that, only five tested samples, about 26% were in accordance what was written on our labels, which is a poor assessment of the US market of Reishi. So there's some concerns, because they use iodine testing and megazyme testing, and those metrics are not recognized by the AOC so it but regardless, it does lend to the idea of seeking Reishi products that do use AOC standards and the need for transparency. And some of you will be asking what it is the AOC International. So the AOAC is the association of official analytical collaboration International. It is the entity that generates international validated tests and methods to ensure a scientific standard that is accepted in the mushroom supplement industry. Other things of Rishi that may be concerned Rishi can mildly lower systolic blood pressure, so be sure your patients monitor their blood pressure, especially if they're on blood pressure medications you could take one in the morning or night, but I do tend to say take mushroom products in the morning or before 2pm because it can affect sleep, because it could be energizing, or you can take it within a two hour window, but work with the pharmacist to be sure there's no interactions. And there have been some concerns with theoretical pharmacology and animal studies that are worth mentioning here about Reishi. There's a study showing that Reishi may have mild interaction with estrogen receptors. There's an ethanol extractive Reishi fruit body that was shown to have very weak binding activity to human estrogen alpha and beta receptors, which can be problematic with patients with estrogen dominant conditions. So be cautious with patients with uterus issues, such as fibroids, endometriosis or endomyosis, or any condition causing heavy men stress flow, or even any estrogen sensitive conditions like breast tissue issues. If there's any concern and you still want to use resheet, you can always add tricky tail to the formula to counteract this effect. If that's a great concern, there is concern that Reishi may have blood thinning properties, although Rishi has in vitro research suggesting fibrinolytic and antithyrobitic activity, there is a human in vivo, randomized double line placebo study using two hemostatic monitors that found that 1.5 grams daily use of Reishi was not associated with gross impairment of platelet and global hemostatic function, but there was potential interaction at three grams of Reishi. So if you have patients on blood thinners, to keep it to 1.5 grams of Reishi or less, and be sure you're they're being monitored through INR or prothrombin time test just to be sure there's no interactions. Once again, you could do the two hour window use one day or night just to prevent any of those interactions, if that's a great concern. And a study of three Reishi fruit body extracts of fruit bodies from China were shown to have poor cell viability with adult and children peripheral blood mononuclear cells. These are the concerns of fruit bodies or much of anything coming from China that we had to be aware of. Could the could this be due to heavy metals, pesticides or insecticides? It could be, but these results of poor cell viability are not consistent with the 1000s of years of observation and use of Reishi. So this leads to the need for stringent third party batch and internal testing with multiple analyzes performed on both ingredients and finished lots to ensure identity, purity, composition and safety. There is an animal research where Reishi fruit body extract overrode the immunosuppressive activity a cycle cyclophosphamide. So this is a particular concern for those about to get an organ transplant or to receive an organ transplant, so just be aware of that interaction. So for centuries, humans have been using Reishi with positive reported outcomes, but replicating these outcomes with human clinical trials has been problematic. Some of these concerns should be could be

Speaker 2  57:07
methodology issues, clean material or purity issues. Some of these studies are old. They're about 20 years old, so potentially outdated information could be the issue. There are a lot of confounding issues, such as defining how robust or clean the material is for clinical use, and difficult to gain confidence of a product for our patients. So in the end, we just need better testing methods and data for products that we want to give our patients, especially our patients with compromised immune system or overreacting immune systems, all right, so on to Lion's Mane. So with all the medicinal mushrooms, especially Lion's Mane, there's plenty of data showing both the mycelium and fruit body of Lion's Mane could be beneficial, but by 2020 human studies of Lion's Mane were scarce, with only three trials that examined the efficacy of oral administration in Lion's Mane for improving brain pathology. However, there is one study published in June of 2024 by Dr Dean Ornish and his group, where two grams of powder of Lion's Mane, mycelium, fermented and brown rice were observed, along with dietary and lifestyle changes and other supplements found significant beneficial changes for con cognitive function, daily function and overwhelm overall health and wellness. But one thing is evident in these studies, whether human or animal study, there is a gut brain and gut immune connection. All of these studies on this chart of Lion's Mane are interacting with the Galt or the microbiome. Many of us have been trained that the primary foundation of health starts in our intestinal tract and our ability to digest properly, since about two thirds of our immune system is in our GI tract, our gut associated lymphoid tissue, the Galt and our Pyro patches and our largest microbiome in our body is in our intestines, including the second highest numbers of neurons in the body resides in our gut. There are a lot of ways we can positively affect our patients health through the gut, even stimulating the vagal nerve. So another unique aspect of the lion's mane is the effect of growth factors, particularly VEGF, V Jeff is vascular growth endothelial factor, which is a growth factor that is primarily associated with the expansion of vessels, along with several other actions, such as vascular permeability and anti apoptotic effect. But one of the great things of FF that we find out, it balances our mood also. So probably the most exciting news research is a preliminary study uncovering novel compounds and supportive activity of Lion's Mane, mycelium in solid state fermentation in rice. We know from previous research that the terpene erinacein compounds support nerve generative activity. At this point, research indicates that the erinaceus compounds are produced predominantly by the mycelium of the lions main mushroom, the mycelium and fermented rice, when studied by HPLC, all show the presence of a number of different RNA se molecules. So Furthermore, in vitro research on human brain cells demonstrates that lion's mane mycelium and fermented rice supports neurite outgrowth comparable to brain derived neurotropic factor BDNF. And if you don't remember, BDNF is the neurotransmitter that supports nerve generative activity and daily reparative functions of our neurons.

Speaker 2  1:00:49
A drawback that is that, oh, I need to stay here in linesman. So now onto concerns here on the bottom. Sorry for the clicking that too soon. A drawback is that if we are looking to chain brain chemistry, or want to use Lion's Mane for its neurodegenerative activity, it needs to be on a continuous basis. All right, on to Cordyceps. So Cordyceps is more widely known for its support associated with energy and breathing, but there are other studies have also shown promise for brain and nervous system support. The first three studies you see on the chart show the affinity of Cordyceps has on our lungs, both on the bronchial tree and the delicate alveolar tissue of our lungs, by promoting a balanced immune response and improving vo two Max, the maximum amount of oxygen that a person can use during intense exercise. The fourth study on the chart showed that 39 healthy males orally, taking an ethanol extract of Cordyceps and capsules at 1.5 grams a day, showed statistically increased natural killer cell activity, lymphocyte activity, along with increased interleukin two and interferon gamma activity, meaning that The innate natural killers and adapted immune system, lymphocytes were supported, along with extracellular immunity support like interlock into and directing white blood cells and interferon gamma, supporting intercellular immunity, basically supporting apoptosis. In the last study of the chart, cordyceps was studied to determine how it can support memory and learning. A number of mechanisms were discovered, including antioxidant activity that protected nerve cells from oxidative damage. Another finding suggested that Cordyceps could potentially support growth factors NGF and BDNF, nerve growth factor and brain derived neurotropic factors. Another facet of Cordyceps is the research show it may also have antioxidant activity associated with increased superoxide, dimutase enzyme activity. Concerns as delineated on the bottom, cordyceps is very energizing, so avoid it taking much past 2pm otherwise it could cause insomnia. One of the other concerns, probably the bigger concern, is with hormone sensitive tumors, primarily with testosterone, could be a concern with Cordyceps. Get Cordyceps can support testosterone production, so combining it with the mushroom Turkey Tail could alleviate some of these concerns and issues. There's also, once again, cordyceps fruit body research showing that can override the immunosuppressive activity of cyclophosphamide. So be aware of those concerns and avoid that combination of cyclophosphamide and Cordyceps use on to mataki. So mataki supports immune engagement and modulatory regulatory activity. It has been about 40 years now since the potential anti tumor activity was first discovered by Japanese researchers. Since then, all kinds of research have further supported the immuno potentiating activity of mataki, along with support of a pop talk apoptotic and autophagy pathways of our immune system. Mataki supports healthy glycemic balance along with healthy blood lip and metabolism, and supports liver detoxification pathways and antioxidant activity. In the second and third studies on the chart suggest that mataki polysaccharides contribute to the treatment of metabolic disorders such as non alcoholic fatty liver diseases diabetes, indicating their potential for preventing or treating hyperglycemia or hyperlipidemia. In the last study on the chart, mataki, polysaccharides have been found to support the preservation of mitochondrial function and may increase antioxidant enzyme activity in aging mice. Concerns as listed on the bottom, because mataki supports healthy glycemic balance, and it may affect the glucose levels of people who are on on glucose modifying medications such as insulin or Metformin. So be sure your patients are being monitored with glucometers, and you always could do a two hour window to prevent those interactions, or Dick take one at night during the day, you could figure out a strategy for your patients. And my taki fruit body extract, once again, is one of those mushrooms that can override this immune suppressive activity of cyclophosphamide and decreased drug clearance rate. So be aware of that interaction on to massima. Misima may support energy through AMPK promotion. A study found that massima may increase the activity of a and BK to enhance autophagy. There are some sparse case reports that demonstrate the therapeutic effects of miscema in patients with fast growing mutated cells. One of the more fascinating apoptotic pathways are the capsaics enzymes, which is the same pathway that can the cannabinoid CBD, or cannabidiol, uses for program cell death. So it's kind of interesting. They use both of that capsized enzyme in animal studies, messima polysaccharides have been shown to potentially reduce serum triglyceride, blood cholesterol and serum lower density lipoprotein, to increase High Density Lipoprotein. And the following study is not on the chart, but it is in the bibliography. So if you're interested, check that out. Miscema may increase the sensitivity of cancers to cancer cells to radiation. So potentially, miscema plus radiation treatment may cause cancer cell apoptotic cell death. As concerns listed on the bottom, they're very low theoretical pharma called pharmacological concerns with miscema Potentially interacting with four cytochrome p4 50 enzymes, as this is on the chart. So it's very it's just their theoretical pharmacology, but always a good idea to know that information Chaga. Alright. So Chaga appears to impact immune and epithelial tissues like our skin, lungs, gastrointestinal tract, partly due to its antioxidant activity, Jaga supports a modulated immune response in the malt, Balt and Galt. So basically our oral mucosal lining, the lining of our lungs and our GI tract, and because it's all the same tissue type, it all has similar immune responsiveness. Chaga supports antioxidants, support antioxidant activity, supporting our neurons, stabilizing intestinal cell, DNA, daily tissue generative activity and supports post exercise recovery. Another way it supports exercise is that Chaga supports muscle energy production. Chaga supports glycemic balance as well, as well as functioning as a prebiotic for our probiotic microflora proliferation, specifically in the Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria species. Chaga has anti tyrosinase activities. Tyrosinase is the rate limiting enzyme in the melanin production. So tyrosinase is found in melanosome, specialized organelles produced by melanocytic cells. So melanosomes are transferred from melanocytes to keratinocytes, where they are dispersed to create normal skin color. So Chaga can support the normal production of melanocytes on our skin, hair and eyes. So some of the concerns as listed on the bottom. There was one case report of neuropathy with renal failure associated with the sclerotia of Chaga. This is thought to do with the high oxalate content of wild crafted Chaga. And to be clear, that sclerotia that big dark, not on trees. It's not the fruit body. The fruit body, is this white puff behind the bark. So just to be clear, that those are not the two. They're not the same. Another issue that is all is that all human clinical studies have been blocked by Russia and on Chaga for the past 25 years or so. So we don't have updated information of human studies on Chaga, we just have animal studies. So just to be clear, that's why. If you're wondering why I don't have a human study, just one review, that's why. All right, on to Royal Sun Blaze. Yeah, so runs royal Sun blazer mounts a strong immune report response and supports immune modulation. There are studies showing how agarica supports both bacterial and viral pathogenic attack. Water extracts of my cell culture and fruit bodies, ethanol extract Markley induce TNF production, tuber necrosis factor production and interleukin eight of macrophage, macrophages derived from rat bone marrow, a gentle reminder that TNF or tumor necrosis factor is a systemic cytokine that suppresses tumor proliferation, and interleukin eight is a chemokine associated with swelling and increased permeability of our membranes. Tissue permeability is important so that immune cells can move through barriers to access the tissues impacted by pathogens or trauma. But too much could be problematic, so it's always about balance. Right? In another paper, using ethanol fractions obtained from mycelia inhibited the occurrence of viral cytopathic effect induced by Western Equine Encephalitis and herpes simplex. Also find particles of geracus fruit body and mycelium activated human complement system, immune system, yet more proof of its activity enhancing natural immunity in bacterial infections. These following two studies are not on the chart, but they are on the bibliography. Agaricus may balance our lipids and our glucose metabolism in an animal, rat, study of Agaricus oligosaccharides, it was found that it may be having anti hyperglycemic activity, may lower elevated triglycerides, lower elevated cholesterol and support anti arteriosclerotic activity, indicating overall anti diabetic activity. Royal simple as AI, may also support the destruction of highly mutated and rapidly growing cells, and may support daily antineoplastic, anti angiogenic effect with possible anti metastatic mechanisms, pro apoptotic tumor mechanisms, along with both therapeutic enhancements and reduction of adverse effects of chemotherapy. As for concerns, you can see in the bottom here there were reports of mild G upset, allergic reactivity and hypoglycemia and type two diabetics. There have been two reports of potential hepatic toxicity, but these results were confounded due to the CO administration of cytotic cytotoxic chemotherapy. So we're tended thinking it was the chemotherapy and not the mushrooms, but laser causing the problems on on the on the side of cytotoxic effects, there was an Agaricus extract can also down regulate the expression of cytochrome p4, 51, A, and it can be useful in reducing the production of metabolically activated pro carcinogens from Xeno biotics, but it can consequently prolong the duration and intensity of drug activity and could give rise to unpredictable side effects or adverse drug reactions. So theoretically, Agaricus mushrooms might interfere with blood glucose control during and after surgical procedures. So tell your patients to discontinue Agaricus mushrooms at least two weeks before elective surgical procedures. There is an important clinical toxicological concerning all mushrooms, especially wild crafted mushrooms, we need to review it is possible for wild crafted mushrooms, even organic ones, to be contaminated with essential levels of metals such as arsenic, lead, cadmium, mercury, as well as radioactive cesium, 137 because many mushroom species actively accumulate radioactive and heavy metals, substances in relatively high concentrations. That's why they're used for bioremediation. It is even mentioned in older Chinese medicine texts for if you're taking TCM courses like 30 years ago, warning the reader of have that there is heavy metals in the herbs from China and mushrooms from China. So mushrooms are being bio mediators for petroleum based products like insecticides, pesticides, or even just oil spills. They're also biomedial for bacteria like E coli. So there's a lot of concern there, so high levels of toxic compounds may offset whatever health benefit a diet rich in mushrooms or their extracts could potentially offer. So always, just be aware that your products are being properly tested. They're they're doing finish lot testing in being sure that those things are being tested for and they're not in those mushroom products. All right, we come to the end, and thank you for being here. So I'm ready for questions, and I just want to leave that treating the whole person is one of the naturopathic principles. As integrative practitioners, we understand the interconnectedness of our body, our environment and our lifestyle when we strive for a total health for our patients, but for ourselves too. So it's it is only through the whole person based approach that we can seek to restore balance and health, and mushrooms is just one of those tools we can use to treat the whole body with minimal interactions with herbs or even pharmaceutical drugs. And I hope this information today will give you confidence in choosing a mushroom product for your patients. So look at the questions. I don't know if I should do it, Dr Nario, or you should follow it. My email is there? Dr sochi@gmail.com, if any questions, and there's the phone number, I could put

Speaker 2  1:14:54
it in the chat or so, I'm not quite sure. Should I just go to the talk? Dr Nario, I

Speaker 1  1:15:01
think we got, we got it there. Pretty, pretty plain. One question here, does Russia have the market cornered on Chaga? I

Speaker 2  1:15:11
don't know if they have the market corner of Chaga that, because I know. Mean, China also grows Chaga and they, you know, many people, I think most, like most Canadians and I think most Americans, get their Chaga from China. It's just that there since, I guess, since problems with choice, with Russia, for the last 25 years, we just haven't been able to get any of the new human studies of Chaga from Russia. So they don't have the corner on the market. They, they kind of have the corner on the research. But, you know, there are animal studies and there's and that review was actually kind of new that I got. So there's new data coming out. It's just, it's not most of the data out there presently are animal studies or in vitro studies.

Speaker 1  1:16:03
Okay, that's the only question I have in the chat. So, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:08
I have email questions for for you. Oh, you

Speaker 2  1:16:11
have some questions from you. Go ahead. Yes, yeah, no, these

Speaker 5  1:16:15
are email that was oh, emails, okay, but I have to commend you for that great electrics. To be honest with you, there's so many mushrooms out there in the market that yeah, about what should we use? I mean, the ones that I'm familiar with, really, is Cordyceps, just because we talk a lot about the cortisol curve and how it will be addressed, be addressing that. And Cordyceps always comes out in the list as one of the most powerful adaptogens out there, right? Yeah. And you did mention that in your in your lecture, so that was, that was great to kind of shed light.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:48
Good, I'm glad. And

Speaker 5  1:16:51
yes, and you mentioned about even one of them, you were mentioning about the mycelia, the bodies, the fruit bodies, I only know about beta glucans actually, it's a, it's actually the, the most, I guess, immuno modulating part of it, which is the, it's a polysaccharide, as I remember, yeah, right,

Speaker 2  1:17:11
yeah. So it is that that seems to be a standard that many mushroom companies are striving for. It is one of the immune modulating, or immune mounting, whatever you wanted to consider it parts of a mushroom, but certainly it might not even be the most active one they did. There was a study there where they showed they did two different fractions in aqueous water extract which would hold the polysaccharide such as betic glucans and a lipid soluble fraction of the word Turkey Tail, the mycelium of Turkey Tail, to be more specific, PSP, I think it's called the that type of extract from Turkey Tail. And so the lipid part would have the terpenes and more of the fatty acid portions of the mycelium. And the fatty acid portion had more immuno potentiating activity than the than the water fraction, where the beta glucans would be at. So I My point is, it's the whole mushroom. It's not it's not just one fraction. They are amazing compounds in all mushrooms. But where's there? So I believe in Saturday, standardization of safety, making sure that the product is clean and and then studies on how it works in this biochemical pathways. But safety is number one, and I think that's paramount, and that's for my concerns, because so many people are using mushrooms for anti tumor activity or highly mutated cells, I'm not going to use the C word. I'm trying to be D shaped compliant, like you were talking Dr Nario. But yeah, but so, so you don't want to give a patient like that something that will worsen the situation. So that's my clue, and then we're just finding, you know, like for example, there, if you're looking at beta glucan activity or content, hopefully I'm not flipping the information. But there, I think there's more beta glucans and certain types, like one six in the mataki than areas in Rishi. Rishi has 11416, more. But Rishi has 1000s of years of research, you know, observation, and we know even through through scientific inquiry, to have great immune activity. So it's, it's, it's not just one type of beta glucans. There's other types of beta glucans, and not to get stuck on one type of beta glucan or just one type of molecule. So that's why I try to talk about all the other activities it has, all the other antioxidants, the effects it has in different enzymes, glutathione, spermidine, activity. These mushrooms have more than one thing going for them. They're not they're multifaceted, kind of like we are as human beings.

Speaker 6  1:20:11
Okay, my question to Dr Palomino, I think I remember her from a firm in Palm Beach a couple years ago with the me coffee and chocolate and things like that. Okay, here's my question, can you take these mushrooms and make homeopathic from them?

Speaker 2  1:20:26
You know, I've never heard of homeopathic mushrooms.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:30
What's going to stop you from trying exactly

Speaker 2  1:20:32
nothing. I'm trying to think because, you know, it's kind of like, like cures, like, yeah, I don't know, you know, I'm trying to think how you would applicable for that, because it's almost like it, you know, when it's like Arnica on the herb can actually cause more bruising, but if you're doing a homeopathic and actually can help bruising, I don't know. I don't know what effects you could do with homeopathic

Speaker 6  1:21:00
with mushrooms. It's an interesting area. Absolutely, I absolutely,

Speaker 2  1:21:04
yeah. I'm curious. Not you got me thinking, yeah, because you're you're energizing. What's the words, cussing the yeah and activating those molecules? It's be curious. I want to know where to begin. How would it affect the immune cells? That'd be a curious thing. I believe in homeopathy completely. It's it's been really helpful for my health and well being. But no, I haven't

Speaker 6  1:21:30
heard it. People can work with what's available, right? Exactly, learn from there. And that's probably how it originated in Europe. Yes, what was available, and they probably don't have mushrooms that much at the time. It's

Speaker 2  1:21:42
true, but Dr, yeah, Hahnemann did some, some crazy experiments with, with his own children, yeah, with mercury. But his son, one son, just went completely, yeah, doing homeopathic

Speaker 6  1:21:56
he did. You could ask questions with kinesiology. Will this help. It's true,

Speaker 2  1:22:01
that'd be interesting. Yeah, I'd be curious. Yeah, I'd be curious. I haven't, haven't heard that, but there's nothing stopping someone from trying. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:09
We are not promoting that as punishment for our children.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:12
No, we're not

Unknown Speaker  1:22:18
gonna do that. No, oh,

Speaker 5  1:22:20
yeah, but yeah. Well, I think shell just to kind of remind me, I do remember some mushrooms that are part of the homeopathic repertoire. Oh, really, yeah, I think Amanita also, if you could remember, they're using all these toxic substances and Amanita

Speaker 2  1:22:41
nature, yeah, it is phalloides. Are probably a media phalloides, because that's, that's 90% of all while crafting mushroom deaths, is Amanita phalloides. So that'd be interesting in his

Speaker 6  1:22:55
Alpha, Alpha Lipoic Acid miracle Burke, Dr Bert Bergson, who unfortunately passed away a couple years ago, he wrote that IV Alpha acid Healed people from poison mushrooms, but he helped them.

Speaker 2  1:23:15
Yeah, I can believe that's such a parallel antioxidant, right? Yes, but yeah they're, yeah, I think they even did what went to Reishi. No, it was Turkey Tail and milk thistle and helping recover someone eating it from an Amanita phalloides poisoning too. That's definitely yeah.

Speaker 6  1:23:36
That's another mushrooms are wonderful to cook with where they

Speaker 2  1:23:40
are, you know. But some of a lot of these are not culinary mushrooms like Reishi or Cordyceps. They're more they have more traditional uses and and traditional Chinese medicine and that in that nature. But you can make break broths with them. I mean, that's

Speaker 6  1:23:56
what they do. You need to what conoscimiento.

Speaker 2  1:24:02
Yes, you have some knowledge. Yeah, you need some knowledge. That's right.

Speaker 5  1:24:08
I think the cookable mushrooms are more just shiitake, maitaki and lions made. So those are the ones that you can Yeah, you're right. Not all of them are

Unknown Speaker  1:24:16
or Morel might just cook up Northern Michigan.

Speaker 2  1:24:19
Yeah, shiitake. You know, I remember shiitake. They used them, had a Cortis at Costco as dried mushrooms. And I always thought, I always tell my patients, it's probably one of the most commercially available and beneficial mushroom you can get. You know, that was pretty reasonable. I don't know if you can get them.

Speaker 6  1:24:35
Now, I don't I remember mushrooms have any medicine? Oh, sure, they definitely do.

Speaker 2  1:24:40
You know some I think all mushrooms have their benefit. But the thing about morels, you have to cook them thoroughly, because last summer, there was some sushi person that thought it'd be clever to do something new with morels and their sushi restaurant. They poured boiling water over it, but they didn't cook them completely. And one lady died from mushroom poisoning, for not properly cooked mushroom. So, yeah, so those type of mushrooms, you need to be sure you're cooking them properly. So anyways, but, but there I do. I think

Speaker 6  1:25:13
that would be an interesting little book, How to cook properly with mushrooms and what to watch out for,

Speaker 2  1:25:20
yeah, I don't know, and I don't There's also, anyways, there was a portabella mushroom scandal at one time. There was death threats happening about cooking Portobello properly. Anyways, it's a controversial issue. Have

Unknown Speaker  1:25:35
you ever written any books and mushrooms? Or what have

Speaker 2  1:25:38
I written? No, I haven't written any. I perhaps, you know, I've been thinking like we're talking about neuro degeneration with Dr Burgess, and also a little bit with Dr Chesterfield or

Unknown Speaker  1:25:53
Dr tan. Oh, he likes to publish books. Oh,

Speaker 2  1:25:56
does he Okay? Well, I'll try to, but I think it's mostly looking how helping, using these mushrooms for helping with memory and daily stressors and mood, not because I think people focus on energy, which is not bad, but it's not only lying to me. Cordyceps reishi, all those mushrooms also help with neuro growth factor and brain derived neurotropic factor, and have neurogenesis

Unknown Speaker  1:26:21
been used to support dementia, for instance, well,

Speaker 2  1:26:24
Alzheimer's dementia, yes, I discuss a 2024, study for Dr Dean Ornish. Do you remember Dr Dean Ornish in the 90s of the study with fish oil? Yeah, cardiologist. So he did another study in last year. Was published in June, showing along, much like the cardiology when he did in the in the 90s, along with diet changes, lifestyle changes like yoga or stress meditation, Omega three and Lion's Mane, two grams a day improved the wellness, Overall, overall health and wellness of the patients with Alzheimer's dementia. So there is, there is studies, but, you know, but I'd be silly to say it was just the lions, man, I'm not going to say that. But much like anything, has anyone

Speaker 6  1:27:12
ever treated patients in nursing homes with mushrooms or naturopathic I have

Speaker 2  1:27:19
not seen that. I haven't seen a protocol for that. It might be happening that hasn't. I haven't seen a study about it. I just know that a lot of people are using it for memory issues, also for children with developmental issues. We're using it with my knee. She's delayed a little bit, but she's improving.

Speaker 6  1:27:39
So any applications for autism that they've tried to support. No,

Speaker 2  1:27:43
no study about that, you know, just like in terms of,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:47
you know, getting rid of heavy metals, for instance, oh, heavy

Speaker 2  1:27:50
metals, no, no. I mean, I mean, in your garden, mushrooms get get rid of but within the body, I don't think they, they do that. I mean, could be wrong. They're very fibrous, so they could help with soluble fiber, removing it from the bloodstream. But you know, heavy metals are really in our tissues, fatty tissues, like our brain. So once again, the mushroom has to be clean. I don't know if it clear it, but I know it could help with the neurite growth. So

Speaker 6  1:28:19
let's say they go to Whole Foods, or they go to sprouts or a health food store, do they teach customers how to properly clean mushrooms and clean mushrooms? That's an interesting question.

Speaker 2  1:28:31
No, I don't know if they No, I never seen a study or anything like, I mean, a class or anything like that that. But that's something they do. I know they have teach cooking classes, like at lazy acres or Bristol Farms. They have the kitchens there, but I don't know. I don't never heard of whole maybe some whole foods do. Actually, in Seattle, I think the whole foods did have a cooking class, but most of them don't have space like that. You

Speaker 6  1:28:55
know, it's an interesting question, or how to use mushrooms with pizza? Yeah?

Speaker 2  1:28:59
Just to cook them, just to have it, yeah, just different ways for sure.

Speaker 6  1:29:06
Okay, well, those were just some incidental questions I wanted to ask. Okay, okay, well, thank you.

Speaker 5  1:29:14
Questions we like food, yeah, oh yeah. So some of the questions here, so I this is my own personal questions, because I deal with the the C word genetic test that actually shows up with three major mushrooms. So as you mentioned about my talk shit talking, and also Agaricus blazier. So those are the ones that, so yeah, those are the ones that shows up the most in our cancer genetic testing. So that's why, yeah, and I know you did mention about other mushrooms that are still useful for cancer therapy. The thing here is one of the bigger challenges we as I kind of correlate this indirectly, beta glucans, right? Um, actually, they are stimulating the innate immune system. So these are, like your neutrophils, NK cells, right? I have a lot of patients who actually, when they get a low dose chemotherapy, their white counts go down. So this is basically Right, right? Can mushrooms actually increase this white counts, which I think we use Neupogen for it, okay? And some of them are scared about it, because the side effects of that is extreme bone pain. Is it stimulating

Unknown Speaker  1:30:34
your bone, right? But can you do

Unknown Speaker  1:30:37
mushrooms for this? Yes.

Speaker 2  1:30:39
Well, first I want to tell you that it was initially thought and maybe older new data, that white blood, that mushrooms, only stimulate the innate cell, innate immune system, but it is shown that they assimilate both, especially royal Sun blazier or Agaricus. It's shown to really B cells. So the bone marrow, very specifically the bone marrow. I forgot which one I almost want to go through my slides, not just to like jog, but I talked about how one mushroom, I think it was real, San blasey. I did both innate and acquired immune system. So both of them do it like especially, especially Turkey Tail. A Turkey Tail does more extracellular, like TNF alpha, more systemic of the immune system. That's more for inflammation or mounting the immune system, but that's more that tends to be more acquired immune system, the or, actually, I should say the innate because that's like, more macrophages, that's more autophagy, that's more the innate immune system. And then we have, there's a mushroom called fomotopsis oficinalis agaricon that I did not review here, that's more intracellular. And that's yeah, so that. So that's more like the kinase cascade, apoptosis, that that's more more that. So there is research showing that both mushrooms can that all motions could do both. But it's some of them specialize a little bit more, like turkey tails, more extracellular, geracons, more intracellular and Royal. Some lazy eye seems to be both innate and acquired immune system, yeah, with B cell mutations in our bone marrow, in our blood, the I can't say again, you can say it the C word, but those their status, showing their own sample. Royal some lazy eye is really good for that. I also just want to Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:32:48
I have a quick question. There seemed to be a proliferation of mushroom coffees, mushroom teas now on the market. Yeah, has anybody looked into the efficacy or anything of this type of mushroom delivery? Oh,

Speaker 2  1:33:08
is it delivery? I mean, it's a very ancient, common one. Many companies are doing. You know, making a mushroom tea is very common. I mean, mushroom broths even, that's how in traditional Chinese medicine, they boil the mushrooms, especially the hard, Woody ones like reishi, Turkey Tail and even Cordyceps. They boil it for eight to 12 hours to make a broth and or a tea with it. But it's but these coffees and stuff are instant. They're supposed to be already heat treated, and that's kind of the problem. Are these mushrooms already heat treated when you add the hot water on it, otherwise, you have to boil these mushrooms for eight to 12 hours. So neither be heat treated. To be sure, the chitin is broken in some of these mushrooms. But yeah, drinking it is, is, is a very effective way to that's a very ancient effective way. The problem is, have they prepared it correctly? And that's kind of where the rub is. You know, if you want more of the polysaccharides or the water extracts of polyphenols from the mushroom, then doing a hot water extract is a good idea. But if you want one of the terpenes, some of the ads is going to direct acid, some of the short cherry, the the fatty acids from the mushroom, then an alcohol extract will need to be done. So a lot of companies, that's what they do. Liquid extracts, like they combine a cold water, hot water, ethanol extract of the fruit body and or mycelium. So they have everything in there. But yeah, I mean, I think it's an ancient way to do these hot beverages. The problem is is, are they ethical? Are they doing it, processing it correctly? Are they heat treating it? Because, you know, some of these woody mushrooms take a long time, or you have to cook them and somehow to extract those polysaccharides that you want, because otherwise it's just like eating good fiber, which is fine. You know, our ferment take, takes any of those fibers. Just,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:16
can you use wine to extract? Oh,

Speaker 2  1:35:19
I'm sure you can. I've never seen it, but I'm sure you can. I know someone, some people were doing, like, beers with Chinese herbs and mushrooms, uh, fermenting them. I mean, this is like, 30 years ago, yeah. I

Speaker 6  1:35:32
mean, I know that you and Dr Neri were talking about Beta Glucan. What about Alpha glucan? Alpha

Speaker 2  1:35:39
glucan, it does have an effect on the immune system. It is present in mushrooms also, to be honest, I don't know by energizing. I don't know if beta glucans are considered energizing. For example, like Cordyceps, it's quite a sepin that's known to help with ATP production. I'm don't know about Beta Glucan. So alpha get glucans affecting ATP production, mostly those are polysaccharides that affect the immune system. Somehow,

Speaker 6  1:36:07
what I was curious about, leading to what it may ask you, is there a mushroom mix that's good for elderly, for

Speaker 2  1:36:15
bujitos? Yeah. I mean, you know, I do think like it depends how severe the situation sometimes I think Reishi is a very good mushroom for that. Reishi, Rishi can affect. I don't know if you remember that chart. I don't even know if it, if it's on this chart, but it affects pretty much every organ system in the body. It's very gentle. And Reishi is one of the mushrooms on the chart. I put the PDF of the slides on slide 20. It marks every one of those anti angiogen longevity markers things I talked about today. So it's a comprehensive, you know, mushroom. That's why it's called the mushroom of immortality, or the elix.

Speaker 6  1:37:04
What I'm also leading to is maybe there's a good diet, you know, with herbs and teas and mushrooms for the elderly, that would be affordable and beneficial. Sure.

Speaker 2  1:37:16
I mean, you can make teas. There's liquid extracts, like I said, where they put the fruit body in the mycelium, hot water, cold you could put a couple of dropper fulls in your tea, and you could put it in your soup. Or you could just take it,

Speaker 6  1:37:32
probably some ethnic wisdom. Oh, for sure.

Speaker 2  1:37:35
I mean, in Asia and Japan and China, they, they know was so precious that they only, they would reserve it only for the royal families because they knew, they knew, they knew it's it's health benefits, and it had the reputation of the mushroom of immortality. So I think it very good. I mean that for the elderly, that's a good place to start. The other one, it would be the seven motions I just mentioned in a blend

Speaker 6  1:38:04
Africa, talking with Dr Daniel, there's ethnic wisdom and shame and a long, long herbal tradition that goes back as well, right? So you have to look the old world, and I'm sure productive area in the Philippines and the different islands, it's very interesting traditions there too.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:25
Oh yeah, that's gonna be the fun mushroom. I think, yeah, you're talking

Speaker 2  1:38:34
Yeah. Those are definitely, yeah, no, definitely, in many cultures, both functional and and ethnogenic

Unknown Speaker  1:38:46
psychotherapeutic benefits, absolutely,

Speaker 2  1:38:49
and that's something I'm looking into my practice to do to help people with depression, anxiety, PTSD and grief, mostly micro dosing. Does you know discussing those benefits?

Speaker 5  1:38:59
Oh, you're doing that in your practice? Yeah, no, not giving

Speaker 2  1:39:03
it, just discussing it, how they can know? Because, well, at least in California, but in Seattle, it's decriminalized. So we're looking, I'm looking at doing retreats for people who want to do their hero's journey, and that's more the three to five grams, but micro dosing, I know I just talked about how people to guide because so many I think, I don't think it happened. Dr Nao, we were talking at the a forum in in Las Vegas, and a lot of people were talking about using the larger doses for for those kind of conditions. And I would say, Well, how are you prepping your patient. And they have like, Oh, you mean, like fasting. And I'm like, well, it's like, do you, do you train for a marathon? Yes, you train for a marathon. You need to prep your patient for that. You need to talk about methylated B vitamins, or B vitamins lions made omega threes. How to Deal With these, you know, you know, tapping or meditation, working, having an intent, whether having counseling before and then after, so prepping up and then down. And also having, giving tools to your patients, and how to deal if it comes, if you're triggered again, because, you know, it's not, I think you've

Speaker 6  1:40:20
always another potentially exciting zoom call coming up.

Speaker 2  1:40:24
Oh, on that. Oh, wait for me. I can talk about it. I don't know if I could talk about it, because technically, it's still federally illegal. I don't know

Unknown Speaker  1:40:32
hypothetical things,

Speaker 2  1:40:37
hypothetically, but yeah, that's something of interest that I want to start practicing, helping, guiding people, and I won't be out, you know, because

Speaker 6  1:40:44
it really does help. It helps people that really need help. And a lot of people don't know where to go, Well, yeah, or which

Speaker 2  1:40:51
strain of mushroom to use, you know, there's some. They're more gentle than others. People don't know that which to explore, which to explore. Yes, foreign research. Yeah, I'm not going to tell you which one that'd be. I don't think that'd be against. I mean, I'm going to follow all the Shay rules here. I'm not even seeing the C word here. Dr Nario is saying that for me. But you know, I might go to retreats in Colorado, Oregon, because those are legal therapy.

Speaker 6  1:41:25
Sometimes plants have organic germanium inside of them too. Yes,

Speaker 2  1:41:29
that's true. Like naturally Corrine. You know, that's not dangerous, that this, that's true. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:41:36
So here's the one of the kicker, one of, I think this is one of the questions that I hear a lot about, can medical mushrooms affect system? I mean, mold Candida. So there's, like, I don't want to take it, it's going to make my my Can Candida in the gut worse. So perfection. What is your take on that? As the mushroom expert,

Speaker 2  1:41:58
I think I'm going to lean over that that's fiction, first of all, because it came out from a naturopath in the 1970s saying that that's dangerous, but absolutely no research. If you look at traditional Chinese medicine, they use Reishi for Candida albicans. It's people Holly the hell is, you know, it's a mushroom. And also, like, well, is E coli, the same thing as lactobacilli. They're both bacteria, but when it's beneficial and one could be detrimental. I mean, eco like, you know, could be a natural part of a microbiome, but if it's out of control, just like Anita albicans, it could be dangerous. So, so there tends to be myth. There's no really proof of that. I just listened to Lisa al Shuler, who is the president of the Sonoran University naturopathic school in Arizona, and she was talking about the theory, it's their theoretical pharmacology, and has to do it through the pants. Oh, my God, pattern associated microphones. Oh god, yeah, that's right, yeah. So that mushrooms do do that, they have that mechanism on the toll receptors that can be problematic because that's already active in in in mold or candida albicans are already in an inflamed state. So there's a concern that that Pam activation can make it worse. But we know that mushrooms are biphasic, like, like herbs are. They could both elevate the immune system or bring it down, like, you know, they could do both. So that's theoretical pharmacology, and it's yet to prove out that mushrooms, like reishi, will make mold and or candida albicans worse, or yeast worse. In fact, it's the traditional use, and the clinical use setting shows that's the reverse. It actually can alleviate it. So, and

Speaker 5  1:43:47
I agree, because there are studies that I've read that even Turkey Tail shit talking, you said Rishi definitely fights against Canada and does not promote the overgrowth of that in the gut. So that's a big myth out there for people, for practitioners are listening, you can definitely this, debunk that myth now with your patients, because that's a common one that owns your clinic. I

Speaker 2  1:44:12
know I heard that in naturopathic medical school and and we in our immunology immunology class, we debunked it. We found patients would still bring it up, and patients, well, my acupuncturist says this. I'm like, oh my god, what proof do they have?

Speaker 5  1:44:31
Well, I want to be a walking testimony to I'm sure you're going to promote your product in a bit, but we're going to turn off the CME, and you can tell

Unknown Speaker  1:44:43
you, Oh no, no, I'm not going to

Speaker 5  1:44:46
do Oh, okay. I just want to make sure I tell everybody that I use your product and so sick. I don't know what I got. I just got seeing patients, and I thought I got COVID again, and I saw the sample that you gave me, and I chugged it down. I took it for two to three days. Oh, that's the only thing that helped. So

Speaker 2  1:45:07
was it the garricon? I mean, I don't mind talking about some of the products about him. I don't was it happened to be the garricon or you don't. We have the combination product, right? Okay, Bobby, was the stamina seven or the my community, seven, Host Defense, yeah, yeah. So, yeah, I don't know if you need to turn off, but yeah,

Speaker 5  1:45:27
I don't mind a moment here, a bit talk about it, but yeah, alright, Doctor Bill, I think you can let her, let

Speaker 1  1:45:36
her, let her go here, yeah. So Sheila, this was fabulous. Where do we go to learn the next step?

Speaker 2  1:45:46
Oh, well, you certainly can. I'm look, I'm going to look like, try to put some more videos of myself talking about motions on YouTube. But you can always like, you know, for the host defense, they have webinars for practitioners. Webinar. Dash info@fungi.com if you're interested in checking them out. And, yeah, hopefully I'll go to start doing talk about mushrooms myself on YouTube and and all their miraculous ways they can affect our well being and health.

Speaker 6  1:46:18
Can I throw in one more question? Do you think that mushrooms can be synergistic with CBD components?

Speaker 2  1:46:25
Yes, I absolutely do, especially so many ways. First of all, anti inflammatory, both of them, it can be super beneficial on that. I do think CBD, fatty acids and mushroom for neurogenesis would be wonderful. I forgot the doctor that do CBD and fish oil to help someone from out of a coma. I already forgot there are also micro cannabinoids and mushrooms. They're cannabinoids and mushrooms also they're very low concentration, but they're there, but they're there. So the synergism is very high, potentially with CBD, all the cannabinoids, just to be honest. But if we're looking for neurogenesis or inflammation, definitely like

Speaker 6  1:47:15
medicinal compounds in cocoa beans, you know, oh yeah, cacao Dr Tano, about that? Wow, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:47:24
you know, you know, I don't if you know my name, Sochi, it's an ancient Aztec name, and there's two gods and goddesses, Sochi Quetzal and Sochi Billi natural. You do know? Okay, so there's a kakawa Sochi. There's a drink in the Aztecs with chocolate and Russians and other herbs. So definitely, chocolate has very great benefits. Someone told me the strangest thing, they ate pure cacao in Peru, and they said they got intoxicated. I don't know how true that is.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:00
Chocolate has an animal, yeah? And then

Speaker 2  1:48:02
am I exactly? It has that love, yeah? And so THC mimics an enemy, so it's so it has that CB one receptor. But also maca has an effect on that. I want to say the Echinacea ecanamide also binds to CB one receptor as an anxiolytic. There's many things that affect the CB one receptor and the CBD two receptor, which where the cannabinoids not just

Unknown Speaker  1:48:27
we need a better chocolate mushrooms. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:48:30
exactly. You know, if you want me to do a cannabinoid, I used to, you know, teach the Department of Health of Washington. I did the medical portion of the medical consultant program. So we want to talk about cannabinoids. We I could do one of those too, and maybe one day I'll do, I'll do the blend of the two.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:49
Yeah, sure.

Speaker 1  1:48:52
Okay, thank you so much. This was terrific. Uh, next week, Dr Derek de Silva. He's the number two man at ammg, and I'm not sure what his topic is, but he's an interesting guy. So thank you so much. Dr, social, Oh, you're wonderful. Okay, our videos off now. Now you can speak freely.

Speaker 2  1:49:14
All right. Well, I'll just talk about the two. I think you either took the STEM at seven or the stem or the my community, which are brave, both great. The Summit seven is the seven mushrooms I discussed today, the seven synergistic mushrooms in the research. And it's a blend that Paul Stamets developed, the seven, if he had to make his own blend of seven, you know, critical mushrooms, and they all have equal parts in that blend. And what we like to say, if you're healthy, you want to stay healthy, that's the castle. But if you have something active or just coming on, you'll also get user for that. And we interchange it a lot with the my community. And the My community is 17 mushrooms, various amounts, and that is more like the Chinese medicine formulation, where you just throw the everything in the pot, you know, just that kind of and we like to say with that one, if you have an acute issue on ongoing or ongoing issues like compromised immune system or over reactive immune system, we tend to say, use the my community. But as you know, the immune system is just like everything adapts. So every three to six months, we tend to say, switch it out between the two. So you're always challenging your your immune system, and so it doesn't, doesn't get used to one. And you always, you know, making sure that the immune system is big

Speaker 5  1:50:39
mushrooms should be a maintenance. So I also have this feeling that you have to kind of give yourself a break of all the immune stimulation that mushrooms do. I don't know if that's over.

Speaker 2  1:50:54
I don't know so much because they also modulate. They're biphasic, so they don't, they don't merely stimulate. They also modulate. They also have known to modulate the immune systems. All about balance, about the immune so they do both. And that, you know, and that's the billion dollar question, how does your body in the mushroom know when you need when you need it? And that's that's the trick that we don't know. I do think you know, there's something special with mushrooms, since we share about 50% of our DNA with mushrooms that the therapeutic potential is greater than it is with herbs or plants, which we share only five to 15% there's something match. You know, there's something well, magic, I will not go I should be careful when I use the word magic, magic mushrooms. But yeah, for certain, there's something there with mushrooms that are that are super beneficial and have a great therapeutic impact on the human body. And it's been used in every continent, pretty much every culture, for 1000s of years. And they all, they all have their unique formula and their unique applications. And it's very funny, you know, it's, it's been used for so long this it's, there seems to be less stigma. I have a aunt who had knee surgery last year, and so I talked to my cousin and my cousin's husband, you know, maybe do you do a CBD topical just to manage the post surgical pain? Because she was scared to death about opiates. And then all of a sudden she came to me, and she goes, Sochi, do you know about Maria Sabina? And I'm like, you know about Maria Sabina? You're scared of a CBD topical. You want to talk you don't know Maria sabadina. She is the Oaxacan Zapotec shaman that she introduced to the Beatles. And I forgot wassen, that the guy from Chase banks and his wife, Valentina, in the 1940s and 50s, introduced psychedelic mushrooms. Yeah, to to them. I mean, that's how then that poor town got inundated by tourists coming down trying to have that experience. And she was ostracized and kicked out of the village, and then she was, you know, later, her family brought that in. So it was a lot of suffering memory Sabina. But I couldn't believe my aunt, who was scared of CBD topicals, was willing, knew Maria Sabina and want to talk to me about it, and was curious. And I was like, this is interesting. It's so embedded in under, in the culture that it's less scary, I guess. And so I'm excited to potentially, you know, I think what it is, it's like, not only pride and guidance, but also to people don't abuse it. And I think that the cultures have used it many ways for 1000s of years, and it's never done alone. You do as a community. And so that's that, to me, is why I want to provide that type of guidance, I guess. So I'm working on

Speaker 5  1:53:56
that you got some fans here. They're asking for wholesale accounts where you get the product. So really you need to plug it, okay, yeah, on the chat, wholesale accounts for practitioners. Oh,

Speaker 2  1:54:10
yeah. So host defense to get out. I'll just put it here. You could do. There is order at, yeah, at Host Defense. This is Host Defense products. I don't, you know.com

Unknown Speaker  1:54:25
you should. Oh,

Speaker 2  1:54:26
put it. Oh, I could put it up here. Yeah, I can put it up on the slide. I just didn't think about it well. So they need to share. I need to share.

Speaker 5  1:54:39
Just to give everybody a background, I met Dr Palomino in an IFM conference, and her booth is just crowded with practitioners. So that's how their product is. I think you've been in the business for how long,

Speaker 2  1:54:55
15 years and five years as a as you know, National Educator, so order at host defense.com where you could set up a wholesale account as practitioners if you want to do webinars, I think you could still see it. Maybe I need to put it up here. Webinar, dash info at host defense@fungi.com, actually, fungi.com webinar,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:34
the private label. According to Dr C, oh,

Speaker 2  1:55:36
I don't have a private label. No, I'm not. I'm not doing that yet. I'm gonna put it on it. Oh, no, can practitioners

Unknown Speaker  1:55:43
private label? Oh

Speaker 2  1:55:44
no, no, they don't. I know where they can private label, and that's with Ohm. So if you want a private label, you can't do it through host defense, but, um, you can definitely do that. Oh, that's another company. That's another company. Yeah, yeah. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:56:00
that's mushroom based as well mushroom mycelium,

Speaker 2  1:56:03
mushroom grown in oats and host defense is mushroom mycelium grown in rice. We but we also have fruit bodies that are grown on elder tree mulch, also, like the reishi, the lion's mane, the garricus mataki, yeah, and the Turkey Tail.

Speaker 6  1:56:29
Have there ever been any association with mushrooms and radiation remediation?

Speaker 2  1:56:34
Yeah, I was just talking about that there is, like, using Rishi and Agaricus Blaze I used helping the not only recover from the radiation better, but having better results. So I it's on the slides, and I also give you a bibliography. But the slides has the digital object indicator, you know, where you can just put the DOI and all the numbers, and you could just find the paper right away. Yeah, so I put the slides in the chat box as an attachment, as a PDF, and I also put the bibliography, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:57:18
on the website. Okay, great. I

Speaker 2  1:57:21
Okay, great. I put it, yeah, so interesting. Oh yeah, so is. Can everyone see the this last screen? I'll leave it there if you want to contact me. That's my email, and that's my phone number, and I don't know if there's any other questions,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:41
any other questions?

Speaker 5  1:57:44
Uh, no, I actually got everything on my list, and it was great. Dr, Paul, we know, I think we're going to be seeing you soon again, another presentation that you're

Speaker 2  1:57:53
all right, we definitely can talk Yes. I mean, I already have one. You know, August

Unknown Speaker  1:57:58
26 soon

Speaker 2  1:58:01
August, one. I think I already have something on that day to be honest, unfortunately. So it's going to be a different number 16. That might work. That might work. I have to look at my schedule, but that might

Speaker 1  1:58:14
work. All right, we have a star. Star's been born, so, all right, I'll send you. I'll send you something. Later, I'm going to send you stuff, you know, we'll send you and all of that, and the contact list and all awesome. And we really want to thank you, and just a little program note anybody who's bored. Tomorrow night. I'm doing Dr Fauci and group. I'm doing the laboratory of functional medicine. We heard that on here a month ago or so, but so if you missed it or you have nothing better to do, he can listen to me drone on for an hour and a half or so. So

Bill Clearfield  1:59:00
thank you, Dr social, that was really terrific and awesome. I've mentioned in our back and forth. We've started using some mushrooms. We started doing some neuro work. We were doing some transcranial magnetic stimulation here. So okay, had some really good success. We had some tinnitus and vertigo patients, and we, and we're doing the the trans, you know, the transcranial magnetic stimulation. We're using the mushrooms. I'm also doing some battlefield acupuncture and some Wolverine treatment in acupuncture points around the year that that's our protocol. So very cool. Having really good success we've had, we've not allowed to say cure, but we've had, we've had of our we've had seven patients so far. For them have gone from nearly daily eight to 10 down to a two to three on a bad day, that doesn't get worse than a three or four. So we're doing really well with that. And it's, it's not the one with the combination that seemed to put it, put it over the top. So, okay, I've already sent the webinar at the host defense, or whatever your thing is. I already sent them a

Unknown Speaker  2:00:15
request. Oh, good, good. To do the webinars while you were

Speaker 1  2:00:19
talking under for a wholesale account. Okay, I think everybody who's still here will probably want to do that also.

Speaker 2  2:00:27
All right, excellent. Well, wonderful to talk to you, and then definitely look forward for September 16. I'll look at it. We'll email each other, each other. All right, thank you for everybody. Wonderful opportunity. Thank you, Dr Nario and Dr Clearfield for having me here. All right, take care. Have a good night.

Speaker 1  2:00:48
So Dr Leonard, I'll send her. I'll send her. The question is, in any Are

Speaker 2  2:00:54
you still there? Oh, I'm sorry, I'm still here. Go ahead. You had a question. One more question,

Speaker 1  2:00:57
are the mushrooms, apparently powder form and can raw. Mushrooms that are cooked can be cooked without destroying the medicinal effects. For sure, mushrooms

Speaker 2  2:01:07
eat mushrooms can be they should be cooked because you're not going to get the medicinal effect unless you cook them or heat treat them or boil them. It's because of the chitin, if you don't break down the chitin, which is like what you find in insects their shell or crab shell or lobster shell, that's a material you have to break that material down in order to get to those biological compounds. So they need to be cooked. Now, can they be overcooked? I guess. I mean, you know, but you know definitely these woody mushrooms, like Turkey Tail, Reishi Cordyceps. They usually are boiled for eight to 12 hours in traditional Chinese medicine. So it's yeah, it's a little unlikely. Now, there are companies that have liquid extracts of the fruit body, mycelium, hot water cold water extracts. There's companies that do direct heat, treat them and then powder them, mill them and put them in capsules, or have them in powder form, or they add put it with instant coffee or cocoa or matcha. So those are the formats, or even gummies now. So those are the formats that are available in different mushroom companies out there.

Speaker 1  2:02:27
Okay, great, okay, okay. Um, okay, I think that that's unless Dr Nair, you got anything else and Dr No, she got it all out next week of Dr de Silva and Bobby Robert, you got it? Dr queen, you got it, or Dr Cano, you got anything from the research group? Anything?

Speaker 4  2:02:50
Just a real quick two sentence update. We spent a lot of time talking about Dr Anthony James's Ayurvedic program, a little bit too much time, I think, on that to till we could get to the main gist of things. The the two main things that I have here is that we're we're looking to decide on an umbrella type of organization, or for us to to fall under, to be able to identify ourselves. And then the other thing, the other main thing is Doctor Tano is working with Doctor James, who I just mentioned on course curriculum for degrees and that type of thing. That's that's pretty much what I have. I don't know about Dr Tano, so

Unknown Speaker  2:03:35
you still here? Yep, you're still here.

Speaker 7  2:03:36
Doctor Quinn said it all. I guess there's last weekend. We didn't really go beyond certain things so those are the two major things that we discussed.

Speaker 1  2:03:47
Okay, great. Okay. All right, everybody. We'll see you next time, same, same, same place, same station, and keep up the good work, and let us know what's going on out there. Okay. Alrighty. Thank you. next time.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai