Bill Clearfield  05:14
I'm just to print out a tentative day you Have to do something that, because didn't record last yesterday's deposit credit card. Do you Have to Do something? I

Speaker 1  10:02
Hey, Hello, hey, sorry, I dropped you. Oh, okay, I'll pick you back up. What's up? No, no, no, I thought you were calling me.

Bill Clearfield  10:19
Oh, that was my must be from yesterday, okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  10:37
Well, what's his name? Threw together something like at the last minute. They're actually doing it next weekend, somewhere in in West Virginia. I'm not going to that. So see Burge. John Burgess, yeah. So, so you want to, you want to steer around? Let me find out. I want to steer around a 4m. Is usually the second or third weekend in December.

Speaker 1  11:09
Yeah, let's October. The

Bill Clearfield  11:14
other one is in. Let's see. So let's see a forum, events, conferences. So October, 23 to 25th A forums in Boston. Ninth to 11th, they're in Scottsdale. They're doing a women's health summit. Yeah. Yeah, December, 12, I don't think we should worry too much about that, though. October, yeah, and we can do October.

Bill Clearfield  11:57
Yeah, yeah, we can, we can, we can, we can do that. Where do you want to do it?

Bill Clearfield  12:08
Yeah, we, we, yeah, we need to sell rooms,

Bill Clearfield  12:18
the pepper mill. I don't know. I'd have to find out the meeting room depending on mostly locals. Because what I'll do is I'll promote this to the holy board. This would actually qualify for their CME, okay,

Unknown Speaker  12:35
and Dr Gerber is not going to be. Hold on a sec. I Yeah, hold, hold on one sec.

Unknown Speaker  12:46
Just trying to get you before,

Speaker 1  12:50
yeah, okay, you there? Okay, so i

Bill Clearfield  13:04
Hang on one sec. Yeah. So let's all right, let's plan. Plan. Then. Okay. So,

Bill Clearfield  13:25
first week of October is October, 3, fourth, fifth.

Unknown Speaker  13:34
All right. Applause.

Speaker 1  13:56
Looks like it's October 6 through campus. This Wednesday. This was the first full week of October, all right, the other weekend, a lot of you there, maybe, like the 16th, uh,

Bill Clearfield  14:28
the yeah there. I think there's something else going on that weekend, though. What you do to 20 next one the 24th 25th and 26th

Speaker 1  14:39
okay? I sure.

Unknown Speaker  14:58
Okay, I'm facility.

Speaker 1  15:16
Yep, okay, I'll let them know. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  15:28
well, I think I'm upset because he used, I think he used, like, like, six or eight of my lectures.

Bill Clearfield  15:39
We asked me i If you would like

Unknown Speaker  15:53
him, and what I

Speaker 2  16:01
want to do is just go ahead and try to play that through. And,

Bill Clearfield  16:07
yeah, you know, we still do this Tuesday night thing. Maybe you could push that too. I

Bill Clearfield  16:36
The annual, okay, what through through the losses.

Bill Clearfield  16:48
You got to do that. You got to do the gap analysis and all of that crap. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:58
All right.

Bill Clearfield  17:01
All right, well, okay, all right, so we'll, we'll shoot for that weekend. I'll even make an announcement tonight. Okay, all right, and we'll, we'll, we'll do what we can. We'll find it, we'll find a venue, and

Unknown Speaker  17:18
we'll take it from there. Sounds good, okay, all right, Thank you. Thanks. Bye. Applause.

Unknown Speaker  31:21
Hi there,

Bill Clearfield  31:27
thank you for joining us. We'll start in about 15 minutes or so, so just take it easy. Okay, you're muted. I can't hear you. You

Unknown Speaker  31:47
Yeah, I can't hear you.

Unknown Speaker  31:53
Hey, there. What's up? What? No, not yet. Not yet. We won't be able to quote her after so, yeah, I'm getting on our thing now,

Bill Clearfield  32:13
personalized, integrative oncology, cancer,

Unknown Speaker  32:22
yeah, all about cancer.

Bill Clearfield  32:26
We're going to put the BTL crew on there, because they're a Cancer.

Unknown Speaker  32:42
You right? I'm

Unknown Speaker  33:20
you know, huh, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  33:49
she needs to become an influencer.

Bill Clearfield  34:00
I don't know. I only know how to screw things up. So I always get myself banned from like Facebook and Twitter and stuff.

Bill Clearfield  34:20
Hang on, hang on. I got I got it. I got it. Yet another call. Hold on. Hello,

Unknown Speaker  34:27
hi. We help you guys

Unknown Speaker  34:37
reach your your

Unknown Speaker  34:40
market for the bus. Your market, to the bus tour

Unknown Speaker  34:50
you support.

Bill Clearfield  34:53
I thought we sent her a whole bunch of a list today. Products, what like, what like her? Stuff like the nitric oxide. We use her. We use her, nitric oxide.

Bill Clearfield  35:16
Yeah, yeah, I don't know. I never use them. Juice Plus is a multi level marketing,

Bill Clearfield  35:28
yeah, yeah, they said they bring a booth. They'll give us 100 bucks to be here. So you know, where did

Bill Clearfield  35:42
you? Available, well, so, so we should, we should make them, you know, compatible with the what we're showing. So for the, for the the, for the exomide, so for the brain stuff, we use phosphate, a Phosphatidylserine. It's called the handle on

Unknown Speaker  36:10
who's the company,

Bill Clearfield  36:12
bio, PC. I

Unknown Speaker  36:22
I said It I

Bill Clearfield  38:09
How about secret trope and spray that's A IGF one growth hormone spray,

Unknown Speaker  38:15
right? And,

Bill Clearfield  38:22
okay, we had a little problem with the zoom thing tonight. Are you going to be on? Going to be Yeah, I know, if you're near a computer, could you try and check on because I'm not sure I'll do

Unknown Speaker  38:36
it right now on

Bill Clearfield  38:39
my computer, right? Yeah. Oh,

Speaker 1  38:42
wait,

Bill Clearfield  38:49
we got people on, okay, we're good. I got a loss on, I got somebody named Ward on,

Speaker 1  38:58
okay, all right, we're good. I Yeah, and then you're okay. Here you are okay. We're good, all right, we're good to go. Okay. So okay, you

Unknown Speaker  39:35
Hello, Hello,

Bill Clearfield  39:38
you are I'm Audrey, okay, and Dr halass, has you asked to speak for, speak for a little bit here, about, about what?

Unknown Speaker  39:53
Oh, he didn't preface this.

Bill Clearfield  39:55
He might have, but you know what i Things are a little little famished today. I don't know if you know what that what that is a little mixed up or busy. Yeah, you know, we got too many things going on. So if, if he might have told me, I'm sure he did. I know he I know he mentioned you.

Speaker 3  40:19
So I, I'm a biotech broker, and I am working with a lab that's isolating NK cells, specifically NK exosomes, from Taiwan, and there are several processing facilities scattered throughout so I'm very interested to listen to your lecture this evening.

Bill Clearfield  40:42
Okay, well, it's Dr Halas, so buckle up. Dr Cano is on now, so I see he's got, he's got, his got a new hairdo. Yeah. So, so what I've been so, what have I been missing? Here? Are you going to West Virginia to what's his name's thing there? Yeah, actually,

Unknown Speaker  41:14
I bought my ticket already.

Bill Clearfield  41:19
I can't make it. It's just, it's just not, not possible.

Unknown Speaker  41:22
No, that is too bad.

Bill Clearfield  41:25
I know we have such fun together. It's I gotta, I gotta keep you away from the, well, I don't think there's any, any, any slot machines in West Virginia, though, to keep you away from. So I like in Vegas, right,

Unknown Speaker  41:40
right.

Bill Clearfield  41:44
So, okay, so I thought I said, Yeah, Dr lass is on here, right? So what's been going on with the research group?

Speaker 4  41:58
Well, this is going, actually, we didn't have to talk much about a lot of stuff. So,

Speaker 4  42:14
so we met Saturday. I think Dr, dr queen is going to make the the the final thing, but we are working on some agreements and trying to see if we can do the educational thing. Okay, one plus we meeting in West Virginia. That was all the preparations and talk about it.

Bill Clearfield  42:44
And I know Stefan's getting ready to go to London, right?

Speaker 5  42:49
Yep, that's right. I'm getting my iodine lecture in top notch state. I was hoping to get it published with one of these groups, but it didn't happen yet. So I'll see if I can get it published. Maybe in Europe.

Unknown Speaker  43:00
You're wearing your shirt. Yeah?

Bill Clearfield  43:06
If we can't, we'll find a couple of leg breakers. We'll get it done.

Speaker 5  43:11
Yeah, that'd be great. I mean, I couldn't get the FL CCC and I couldn't get IPAC they, I mean, they IPAC is just really slow, and then FL CCC was like, they weren't interested. It's not like they weren't interested. It's not like they're kind of subject material, so I've been kind of stuck getting

Unknown Speaker  43:25
it published. Yeah, can

Speaker 6  43:27
you hear me? Guys, FLCC, it's little bit they are having their group, kind of, they're putting a wall around their speakers, they don't want any other except them, and that's a problem when you have a conference who are not open to the outside box muscle. Information is not going to be verified by everybody. It's it's more going to be misinformation. Sometimes. Does that make sense? Because if you have the information, you're confident, you let everybody to go in and ask and question and but if you start putting the wall, that's me. You have an agenda in your in your presentation, that's how I see it. Yeah, yeah. So I'm going to be in Germany in 26 and you're going to be but I will be also returning back to Germany on on July 12, maybe or 11. Okay, I'll be in Europe and July 12. So I attending the conference.

Bill Clearfield  44:41
I've been inrogen Society July 11 in San Francisco. And that's Abraham Morgan tellers group. So, so we're moving on up in the world a little.

Speaker 6  44:57
You have a meeting. Dr Clearfield, July

Bill Clearfield  45:01
10 and 11th, the androgen society in San Francisco. It's, you know, Abraham Morgan, teller, is he's Mr. Testosterone?

Speaker 6  45:08
Oh, is he Testa missus tester in the war right way, or Mrs. Distaste, or in the wrong way? No,

Bill Clearfield  45:15
he does it the right way. He's the one. He's the one who debunked it. The whole thing that, you know, with the prostate cancer and whatnot.

Speaker 6  45:23
Oh, another one is that estrogen is behind it, not testosterone, right?

Unknown Speaker  45:27
I don't know

Speaker 5  45:28
if he proves that, but he just say, Does testosterone doesn't increase the death or the rate of he

Bill Clearfield  45:35
wrote all the papers in the 90s on that so

Speaker 6  45:37
well, there is two part of it. There's I'm also, I may criminalize, I may put DHT on on the question. So DHT along with estrogen, possibly those are two may cause prostate growth, but not this tester distaste or itself. What do you think? Do you think DHT has something to do with it? It does. Sometimes it does, yeah, yeah. So if you, if we are able to prevent the conversion testin to DHT and to estrogen, then maybe that will be the answer,

Bill Clearfield  46:14
um, before I turn the video on, is you, does your guest have? Is that she okay for the CME, or is that a not, no, no,

Speaker 6  46:21
she will be a before. After, which one you want to do? Before, after, in the lecture, whatever you want to do this, I think it's better to be after, because 15 is not much. You you you getting to 30, right and 40, right? We usually end

Bill Clearfield  46:34
up in the 40s. Yeah.

Speaker 6  46:36
Do you want to wait after all? You want to do it now? Audrey, if you wait after, I think you can get 40, maybe, because my definition

Unknown Speaker  46:50
we had over, okay, that's gonna,

Speaker 3  46:53
what time does that go to? Like 930 my

Speaker 6  46:56
lecture is gonna be around eight to not attend

Unknown Speaker  47:02
eight to 10. That's a huge change,

Speaker 6  47:05
yeah, because especially now I'm adding another clinical case. No, we don't read the recording. Can you? Can we do don't record right

Bill Clearfield  47:12
now. That's the background one. That's not the one we use. Don't worry. Oh, okay,

Speaker 6  47:16
yeah, if you want to, we can give her another Can we start at eight five

Speaker 5  47:22
minutes, the same lecture from last night that got banned by YouTube.

Unknown Speaker  47:26
It got banned.

Speaker 5  47:28
Yeah, your lecture last night is banned from YouTube already. Who

Speaker 6  47:31
banned it? I'll win. Yeah,

Speaker 5  47:36
they already ended. You can't see anything about, uh, alternative cancer treatments. Now it's automatically run. Speak, did they ban mine? I didn't upload it. Yes, I didn't upload it. Already banned. How? You know, somebody uploaded it and is already

Speaker 6  47:56
banned from his side, not mine. I have no band from my side at all. Right? Now it's there. It's there. Did you see it? Did they move it? It's

Speaker 5  48:07
down. So when I load it, is it? Remove it? Yes, it's banned. You can't you can't follow the link anymore.

Speaker 6  48:14
Oh, this is my first time I've been banned. Now I'm putting it on Tiktok. I thought, I'm not stupid. Now I'm stupid

Speaker 5  48:25
just YouTube. You can only give the lecture here live. You cannot upload it to YouTube.

Unknown Speaker  48:30
I'm outsmarting you guys.

Bill Clearfield  48:32
Put it on our own website. Don't worry about that. We have it on our own website.

Unknown Speaker  48:38
I thought they're nice with me. No,

Speaker 5  48:40
it's an AI. It finds when you speak about alternative cancer treatments, it's like that band.

Unknown Speaker  48:49
Oh, Lord, yeah,

Speaker 5  48:54
I was in jail on YouTube for one week because I put like a two, two second clip of you talking about acoustic healing of cancer, and I was in the doghouse for one week on YouTube. My whole channel was censored.

Speaker 3  49:09
Not surprised. That's just horrible.

Speaker 6  49:15
I thought I outsmart them, and they're nice with me, and now they're not.

Speaker 5  49:20
The thing was, during the pandemic, every time you mentioned COVID, you can get banned. But now, every time you mention alternative cancer treatment, you're going to get banned. It's changed. The algorithm has changed. You can speak about

Speaker 4  49:30
COVID a new platform, a different platform that is more powerful.

Speaker 3  49:37
Maybe you can rename it alternative treatments for immune dysfunction, or play with the wording so it doesn't get banned as quickly

Speaker 5  49:48
you might you might last a little bit. I got one video where I had a talk with another doctor, and it was on there for about a year until they found it, and then they banned it. And it was one of my most popular videos, too.

Unknown Speaker  50:05
Okay, Audrey, you want to go?

Speaker 3  50:08
Yes, I will go ahead and start well, thank you for inviting me to the call. My name is Audrey, and I am in the biotech space. Tonight I'm just going to speak. Since we are discussing alternative cancer treatments, I'll just briefly discuss the NK cells that I'm working with. So the lab that is isolating these NK vesicles is invitrix therapeutics I have been working with them for about, pretty much the entirety that I've been in the biotech space, which is about eight, almost eight years now. And so the they're actually isolating these cells in Taiwan now. It was about a year after they were isolating these vesicles in Silicon Valley that they started to run into issues with the FDA. So now they're isolating at about six different countries, and the NK exosomes, we're seeing incredible results with cancer. I have seen tumors that have pretty much just disintegrated within weeks of patients having either IVs or that the cell or the vesicles are being injected directly into tumors. We're also seeing patients that have had autoimmune diseases that these issues are just resolving very quickly. And in addition to that, the NK exosomes are also able to aid in the removal of mold, parasites, fun fungus And what we're seeing now is that they're also aiding in patients who have had health issues related to the COVID vaccine or spike protein, and essentially what's happening is. as they would normally with you know that they are almost like a divine messenger vesicle? Well, they are responding to these immune responses that that the spike protein is throwing out, whether you know it's targeting myocardial issues or Turbo cancers. They are honing in on these areas, and they are instructing the body to stop, to basically, to stop writing these instructions and helping to improve the immune system, improving immune modulation, and I'm also hearing about the potential of them being able to be loaded with chemo, whether it's chemo or vitamin C, zinc, or any nutraceuticals, whatever ideas that you guys would get, you're likely able to load these vesicles with those nutraceuticals. So the implications for this are really incredible. And just the stories that I've been able to hear of patients healing rapidly is quite phenomenal. And you know, I don't want to take up too much time that all of this is still very new, but I look forward to hearing more and more about these, the functions and just the amazing stories that are happening. Unfortunately in the United States, it's very, very regulated, and there are probably currently only about 20 to 25 doctors that I know of that are using these vesicles, and they're obviously not really advertising it, but I have been doing a lot of deep delves with chat, GPT and some other functionalities and modalities of these vesicles, and I think that they will pair very well with a lot of the other modalities that you're currently using for cancer treatment.

Unknown Speaker  54:31
And I mean, that's really

Speaker 3  54:33
I it, that I have, I mean, just the basic functions of them and their applications clinically, cancer, autoimmune issues, infections, pretty much any viral pathogen that we could have that's living dormant in our livers, heart, brain, thyroid, they will respond to those chemical distress signals that those tissues are throwing out.

Speaker 6  55:05
Have a question? Audrey, yes, sir, yes. Eric, so is this company coming from Lithuania? Because I'm working with a Lithuanian company to get these peptide vaccines from them. Is this the same or no?

Speaker 3  55:22
So vitrix is not a process. Hello. So this is actually the CEO of invetrix, Habib torfi. Good evening from Japan. He's joining us from Japan this evening. Oh, he's

Speaker 6  55:41
coming from Japan. All right. Well, good evening. Habib, so

Speaker 7  55:45
yes. Dr accedo, this is a inviscid therapeutics from California. We are a global company as Audrey eloquently illustrated, our technology. We are a California based company. We've been in cell therapy, regenerative medicine, for over two decades. I really cannot add more to what Audrey presented to you. I just like to add one item. Actually, we are stepping away from cell therapy. We are going to a cell therapy, a cellular therapy, whereas the field that the exosomes actually do most of the heavy lifting that the cells exude or secrete these exosomes or secret arms. And hence we have basically tried to stay away from mostly cell therapy, unless on the acute or cases. Now, what we have done in the area of oncology, by the way, I spent about 20 years in clinical diagnostic oncology in University of California, UCLA, UC Davis and UCI. So what we have, what we are presenting currently, and we are doing clinical trials globally with this product is we are actually combining NK cell with CD 19, and what we call this a core NK as a universal core NK or universal therapy. And this is, again, this is exosomes. Basically, we grow this NK cells in conjunction with this city 19, construct and purify this exosome and use them as a a cellular off the shelf, universal car and K or car T technology.

Unknown Speaker  58:01
Is this something that I can get for my

Unknown Speaker  58:03
patients? Or, Yes,

Speaker 6  58:07
well, okay, then I need the website. Do you have that website? Or yeah, or contact information? How to get it? Yes,

Speaker 7  58:15
I definitely can share that information with you. We are in beatrix.com. I N B, I

Bill Clearfield  58:25
t, r, x,

Speaker 7  58:27
again, I'll repeat I as India and as Nancy, V, as Victor, I as India, T, as Tom, or x.com

Speaker 6  58:41
Dr Habib would be nice that making a lot another presentation day for you guys in your company, so you can educate a lot of our doctors in this in this gathering. So it sounds like this is a very interesting product, because I do have also integrative oncology as part of my practice, and we definitely are going to be very interested about what you have to offer. So maybe in the future we can, and even Audrey, we could set up somebody who can present on your end to explain what the company is, what your products would be. So we can invite our clinicians who are on the call. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you so much to be separate from the business, just to so you can get the CME, you know, scientific lecture

Speaker 7  59:27
that we can easily do, that we can get either our Scientific Advisory Board, one of our members from that board or medical oncology members to present both the clinical and scientific basis behind this new approach to targeted immaculate therapy or oncology,

Speaker 6  59:52
and we're talking about it tonight. There's a lot of things in commonality here where you using exosomes. I use plated nanoparticle, just because plated is more cheaper, but the exosome has something an advantage. It has a P 53 and that may help to support the cancer with the mutated P 53 because that's one of the way the cancer is kind of losing its control and of proliferations and divide and there's no apoptosis because of mutation of P 53 so possibly that the exosomes will add that value, plus loading exosomes with with chemotherapy, which already been published, and with photosensitizers and peptides, and it will help, because then it will act like, like the way we are trying to kill the mice. We put poison in the cheese, and that may help to feed exosomes will feed the cancers, and it definitely helped to kill them. So there is a place there in oncology for using your exosomes to deliver chemotherapy and peptides into the cancers. And I have the protocol for doing that if you end up working with us, how we load those drugs using the sonications and and nano filtration or extrusion, we're good. We can go to

Speaker 3  1:01:27
this. Thank you very much opportunity, and I put the website and my contact information in the chat. Okay, thank

Bill Clearfield  1:01:37
you so much.

Speaker 8  1:01:38
Hey, I just wanted to say hello. I don't know if you remember me. Bob Quinn, of course I do. How are you? I'm fine. Your facility. Well, for anybody who wants to see a fantastic facility, Irvine California, go see Dr Torpy.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:57
Thank you so nice. That's very kind of you.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:00
Okay, so we're going to start the recording

Bill Clearfield  1:02:04
in a minute. Dr Nario, do you want to do your tip of the week now? Or you want to wait till the end?

Speaker 6  1:02:10
Oh, we can do later. No, no, no, go ahead now, because it's very going to be long, and yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:02:18
it's going to be long and drawn out. Yes, go ahead now.

Speaker 6  1:02:21
All right, so Tip of the Week, so we're actually looking at the nervous system in fellowship, and we found out that the olfactory system is still active when we're sleeping. So we spoke about topics, about helping sleep in relation to this specific function of the central nervous system. So diffusers, these are something that actually has been done in terms of studies that essential oils could actually help and assist with sleep. We already know about this, but we back this up now with medical literature. So there are actual studies of China, even 20 randomized, controlled trials that they found that lavender essential oil during sleep actually something that would be helpful in terms of insomnia and other sleeping disorders. And another tip that was been found through these studies also is actually putting essential oils in your pillow. So if you don't have those, these diffusers, you can actually put it on your on your blankets, on your beddings. That's also another effective way to do this. And the most effective one out of all the sleep essential oils would be lavender. It's the most extensively studied that is actually related to improving sleep onset and quality. But the other ones on the side will also be chamomile, bergamot and peppermint. So if you want a natural way to help with the sleep assistance, these are the essential oils that we have that are actually backed up by medical evidence. That's it for today. Yo, I thank you. I think that explained when I got diamond hydromen anti histamine they use for also for insomnia, but the one in Germany is different from United States. In United State, you end up not having that normal sleep, but the German they do, so, I think they're adding those ingredients to help to boost the dive and hydrogen and maybe minimizes side effects, because a German hydramine mixed with all those ingredients that you talked about, it's more effective than pure diamond Hydra mean, do you think that's the reason? Because I got very nice, good sleep with the Germans, but not the one. Pure divin hydramine. I'm not sure about the diphenhydramine, but of course, it's an antihistamine. It definitely as part of its side effect profile, um, it actually does help with sleep induction. It's just that the study here is there showing that the olfactory nerve is very active. That's why you have moments that when you you're sleeping and you smell fire, you wake up just because of sleeping. That's because anything that is that you can smell still triggers more of these stimulus, even though you thought everything's shutting down during sleep stages. But yeah, use that at your disposal. You're getting treatments while you're sleeping, and it's even more if you if people want to, like do more things and be more proactive about everything. So diffusers are really good, great. I think we are going to the lecture, right? Dr Steve, to the lecture. Alright? So you want to go introduce or go introduce myself? I guess not.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:38
It's yours, man, go ahead. No, you go ahead. We're good to go. Go ahead. You're, you're, you're a fearless, fearless leader, right?

Speaker 6  1:05:46
Hi. I'm Dr halasa, the founder of chronic disease prevention and management, and I think today we're going to talk about how we are outperforming oncologist and managing cancer. I'm talking about everybody here who are integrative doctors. You do have the skills and the education and this experience to really outperform the oncologist, because oncologists did fail in managing in managing cancer. And by the way, Stefan, the video that I loaded, did not they there's it's still there on YouTube, so it's not being put down. So we're good. Even this video, if we put it up, it's going to be okay. So what in order for us to know exactly how we are better than the oncologist in managing cancer. We need to know what's the failure how the oncologist fail in managing cancer, what's going on with the chemotherapy and radiotherapy and things that the mainstream medicine is doing. So do me? Does that mean we're going to ditch what they're doing and just do integrative medicine. No, we're going to use what they're doing, but we're going to do it in a smart way, so we don't ditch the weapons that's been done. We're going to perfect it and improve it, which is the chemotherapy and radiotherapy and all the an immunotherapy that the mainstream medicine is doing. But also we gonna navigate managing cancer, not just killing the cancer. And that's what most of the mainstream medicine or oncologists are focusing on, just killing the cancer, which is, it's okay, but as long as you're not killing the immune system and you're not killing the mitochondria. Because if you kill the mitochondria, destroy the mitochondria, then you're losing the mitophagy, which is one of the way that we can get rid from cancer. And also, if you get rid from the immune system, and you destroy it, then definitely you are losing the weapon, the intrinsic weapon, your endogenous weapon, to kill the cancer. So as long as you are killing the cancer at the same time, you are changing the tumor micro environment to be a hostile environment for the cancer, and you're empowering the immune system and polarizing it to th one and cytotoxic T cells, which is to CDA and you are empowering the mitochondria, then we are. We are in a good position to say we can do better than the mainstream medicine, and also the mainstream medicine. They use high dose of chemotherapy that's toxic and it goes everywhere which toxicate the cancer, plus your healthy tissue and your immune system and your mitochondria. So it's better if we can learn how to target those chemotherapy into the cancer using nanoparticles, using plated nanoparticles, or using exosome, derive it from stem cells, whether it's umbilical or from your patient stem cells. And I can help you. I can train you to load drugs inside latest nanoparticle. The Big Pharma is already doing it, one in California, but it takes them 10 to 20 years to pass through all the regulations. We can do it today. Today we can go and I already trained around 10 doctors to load drugs inside plated nanoparticle, and again, you can also load inside exosomes. So that's the lecture of today, basically. And as you see, the picture here just shows you that how the CDM protocol outperformed conventional oncology by a systemic biology strategy to reverse cancer resistance, and because those chemotherapy, if you see how it's been approved, it's been approved based on the data from from the population, which is they come up with a trial, and 50% of those patients Have remission, but other 50% not necessary to have information, and that's okay. If 50% have the remission, we can approve the drug. The other 50% what happened to them? Well, those two other 50% they may be genetically cannot metabolize those chemotherapy. It's not effective because of mutation in the cancer. And in fact, if you give those chemotherapy cocktail to those patients, you may actually speed the process of or shorten the lifespan of the patient. And in fact, maybe not taking the chemotherapy, they can stay longer, living longer than than taking it. So that's a difference. So we, as integrative oncologist, or see the Chronic Disease Prevention management specialist, we take the circulating tumor cells from the patient, often biopsy from the cancer, and we use drug sensitivity testing, same like we do with bacteria. You know, you take the bacteria sample from the blood or from the urine, and you do drug sensitivity for it for antibiotic, it's called pharmacogenetics. For antibiotics, we can do the same thing for cancer. Now the question is that whether it's reliable or not, why we don't have it here in United States, those labs, most of them, are international. The FDA, are skeptic with their results. And the other thing is that one of the pitfall that this methodology is if we end up sending those samples, which is biopsy or blood samples, which contains circulating tumor cells, DNA, send it to the lab, and you come up with a list of the of the drugs and supplements and peptides that they are sensitive to, and you say, Okay, those are drugs peptide. But the problem is that those cancer can mutate, even with the the one that is being sensitive to today, maybe after one one week or two weeks, they become resistant to it. So that's the problem where the FDA is being skeptic, but having something better than not having anything. So still it has a position, and it does help us to narrow down, you know, at least the most probable, drugs and supplements and peptide that the cancer will be sensitive to. So, that is the, the difference, and also. system, and they destroy the mitochondria, especially if you destroy the mitochondria, what you will end up, you end up with acidosis. Why? Because you know the way that the cancer, or even your normal cells get rid from the lactic acid buildup from glycolytics. Glycolysis pathway is to be shuttled in the mitochondria, and if the mitochondria is being damaged by the chemotherapy,

Speaker 6  1:12:40
so those lactic acid will be pumped out into the extracellular space of the of the cancer, so it become acidic, and that acidic itself will cause the immune system to polarize into T regs in the state of th one and cytotoxic T cells. And those T regs will form a shield around the cancer. And also, you know, those damaging effect of the chemotherapy, it may lead to causing inflammation, but not the good inflammation. Actually the th 17 mediated inflammation, and the cancer itself would secrete chemistry that polarized the immune system away from cytotoxic T cells, which is to pH two and th 17, and that leads to increasing to look at six, and interleukin six can lead to coagulation or increase the cognitive ability of the blood, and that leads to forming a platelets and fibrins around the cancer. In addition to that, the cancer secretes transforming growth factor, beta and and interleukin 10, which leads to stimulation of fibrosis. And the chemotherapy does enhance that, especially damage the mitochondria, leading to extracellular tumor, micro environment to be acidic that itself is polarizing the immune system away from from th one. And so what we need is to inhibit the glycolytic metabolism, whether by using the keto diet or by using drugs that inhibit the glycolytic and activate the mitochondria. Because this mitochondria, it's, it's, it's a ticking bomb inside the cancer cells, and the cancer is secreting chemicals to inhibit it as and along with that, you have the chemotherapies is destroying it. And we can do things to help to revive those mitochondria and revive the mitophagy, which will lead to blowing up those cancer cells. So that's the reason I think our approach is more comprehensive and it's more effective, because we are not just killing the cancer only, but also we are looking to change the tumor micro environment so it become a hostile environment, because those cancer cells, they secrete chemicals to make the tumor micro environment in favor of the cancer. Like they secrete chemicals like until you can tan and transform a gut factor which leads to fibrosis. And the fibrosis itself squeeze the blood vessels and and that visits become kinky and preventing the infiltration of the lymphocytes and the red blood cells. And when you prevent the infiltration of lymphocytes and the red blood cells, red blood cells carrying the oxygen, right? So those cancer, although it's highly vascular, because they do secrete vascular material, growth factors, right? Those cancers, but the problem is that they're highly vascular, but hypoxic. And people will say, how is that? Well, they have lots of blood vessels, but they're they're King, they're being squeezed by the fibrosis. So what would happen if you have a help your house, house is being kinked. You may end up having the blast, not passing through, but all those big particles like red blood cells and white blood cells cannot pass through, and that's how the cancer is doing, is shielding the lymphocyte from infiltrating the cancer and also shielding red blood cells. Now what's the problem with shielding red blood cells? If you shield the red blood cells, that means shielding out the oxygen from going inside the cancer, right? And so what will be the solution here? Well, the solution is to break those fibrosis and also inhibit those excessive vascular material growth factors, so you normalize the blood vessels. And you can do that with Losartan and Clotho, or you can do that with focusing ultrasound. Photodynamic therapy may help as well, that the light therapy does go some increase in the blood flow. But also, I mean, you can eventually the other problem that we have is, is, is the red blood cells, when it's being squeezed out, the oxygen cannot go in. So what we need now to do is to find a way that we can get the oxygen even without red blood cells. So how we can do that? We give them ozone. Ozone will dissolve into the plasma, and this will carry the oxygen into the into the cancer. So that's one way, or you do the oxygen chamber and things like that to help to increase the the plasma concentration of oxygen. So that's another way to bypass the hypoxic effect of the cancer. So there's many tricks the cancer is doing its own tricks. We need to learn the tricks of the cancer. It's an enemy, and in order for us to win the battle with cancer, we need to learn about all the tricks of the cancer, right? You need to know about the how your tactics of your enemies in order to win them. Of course, the mainstream medicine have no clue about this. I mean, basically all their focus is how to kill the cancer, and when they use the chemotherapy, they are targeting certain protein or certain enzyme or certain genes or certain receptors. But the problem with that, you know, the cancer is smart. They will mutate, and if they mutate into another cancer, cell lines that that that cancer drug will not work anymore, right? And ultimately, whether it's radiotherapy or chemotherapy, the ultimate effect of inducing apoptosis is, is free radicals, right? And free radicals these oxygen. So I have a problem with those key with those oncologists, when they will say, Oh, yeah, integrative Doctor, please don't give ozone or oxygen to the patient who is receiving chemotherapy or radiotherapy, because it will interfere without work. Well, that's not true, because chemotherapy cannot work without enough of oxygen, because the ultimate effect of chemotherapy and radiotherapy is to generate free radicals, and if you don't have enough of oxygen, going to the cancer, your chemotherapy and your radiotherapy is not going to work. So that's you know, how you answer those people who are having problem with adding integrative medicine the same time they are using the chemotherapy or radiotherapy or the mainstream medicine protocol. So that's the difference between us. We still use the chemotherapy, but we will use it smartly. We will. We will do the pharmacogenetics and come up with the list of drugs and supplements and peptides that is sensitive for that specific cancer. And also, we're not going to use a toxic dose. We're going to use 10 to 25% of that dose and load inside of particle. And when you load inside plateless nano particle, and you get that package the size of up to 100 centimeter, you will have more tendency to be filtering those package into the cancer tissue versus healthy tissue. Why? Because the cancer tissue, their blood vessels is leaky, so they will allow those sizes to go in, but the healthy tissue are very tight. They will not allow up to 100 nanometer to be passed through. The question is that is there already chemotherapy that's being done in the form of liposomes? Yes, Doxil is a chemotherapy drug that's coming from Doctor Robinson. Doctor Robinson is a naked drug, and most of the oncologist, they move into Doxil. Why? Because it's a liposomes in the range of 80 nanometer and they load the doxorubicide inside it with the concept of nano medicine will help to deliver drugs passively into the cancer versus into the healthy tissue. Because of the blood vessels of the cancer, it's more leaky. The blood vessels is more tight. But where's the problem? There? The problem is that the macrophages does intercept them, especially in liver and in the lung, they see liposomes, still synthetic, so they intercept them, but they say, well, we can stop that and help the macrophage from eating those nanoparticles by giving a drug. It's the Chloroquine last night I mentioned a drug that's wrong, chlorophyll, so hopefully that video last night will be corrected, corrected. It's a Chloroquine which should help the macro fat from eating, you know. But there is a publication that has been done where they made a study using Doxy Robinson, Doxil, which is loaded with liposomes, and Doxy Robinson loaded with platelet nanoparticle from the patient, and the plateless nanoparticle over doxorubicin was more effective than Doxil and Dr Robinson. So that's what we are. We are entertaining. And the reason why, because the plate is works like a torsion the body, the macrophage will see it as itself, so they will not intercept it, and so you can get more drug concentrated into the cancer, whether it's in the brain or in other area, without being intercepted. So you don't need to add Chloroquine for this regimen. So that's the, you know, the summary of what we're going to present tonight, and I will go through those slides. But if anybody here has any questions up to now? Because I like to have the lecture to be more interactive, making sure that we are all on the same page here. And there will be a clinical case at the end of the of the slides, but I will go through those slides easily now, because now we have the what you will be expecting from me. Now, I think I just summarize it in 10 minutes. But if there's anybody before I go through those slides very fast, if you have any questions, go ahead. Question, yes, the Chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, you're talking about autophagy inhibition, is this what you're talking about? And during key Yeah, it does help to prevent the macro fat from intercepting nano particles. That's being published in one of the nanomedicine

Speaker 6  1:22:33
in University of Florida somewhere. They have that, but we don't need it. If you do plate this nanoparticle, they are endogenous. So, you know, it works like a torsion. We solve that problem. So we don't need the hydroxychloroquine, but so heroxychloroquine still good for cancer, along with ivermectin and meth blue, because they inhibit the th 17. And that's what you need, because the cancer is secreting chemicals that polarize the immune system to th 17 and th two when you wanted to move it to th one. So anything that helps to th 17 and th one, th two, it's good for cancer, whether using anti histamine or don't have the th two, or using any drugs that inhabit the th 17, like hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin and metal and blue and and thymosin alpha, those are inhibitors and helps to modulate the immune system, so you still can use it For for cancer. It's not a bad thing to do. And in addition to probiotics, which you have the th 17, the butyric acid that probiotics and and postbiotics and micro and the probiotics are secreting, is that make sense? We're good. Yeah, any question. Everybody's happy here. Before we go through those slides, very fast, because I think I gave you the kind of the butter. Dr Dario, are you good?

Speaker 9  1:23:59
No questions yet. Dr halasha,

Speaker 6  1:24:04
how are you top doctors in college integrative oncology, by the way, and she's, she's doing the loading of platelets. So she's, I think, I think she's happy. Are you happy? Dr Patel, yes,

Speaker 9  1:24:17
of course I do. I do it for many other things besides the besides the use of the oncology you were mentioning about th 17 and inhibiting I just wanted to bring we should not forget the low dose Naltrexone. It does does the same thing. So,

Speaker 6  1:24:41
yes, not that done anything unhap 17 would definitely help, help the cancer all the way, or inhibiting th two as well, or inhabiting the T

Speaker 9  1:24:52
regs, that whole, whole thing, yeah, right, the T regs.

Speaker 6  1:24:55
The best thing for that is the antibody, anti PDL one and anti CTL four. The i The immuno oncologist. They're happy, excited about it, and I'm happy, excited about it. But the problem with if you inject it nakedly, goes everywhere, you end up having autoimmune diseases and collides, which will drain the immune system again. And so loading inside places, nanoparticles, those antibodies getting into the cancer versus going everywhere, it's the best option for even for the anti PDL one and anti CTF four that immuno oncologists are doing. So we are doing better than them, because we are targeting the drug and we use 10 to 20% up to 25% if you want to go with max of immunotherapy or a big pharma products. And we, as I said, we change the tumor micro environment to be a hostile environment for the cancer as much as we can. Is that good? So let's go through the slides. So conventional oncology still relies heavily on population based protocols. You know, basically their cocktails are based on the clinical trials. 50% 60% 70% have remission the others, we don't care. It's good. Just move it, approve it. What about those 30% they still have taking it when we don't know who are they're from the 30% empathy, it's going to be chance. You know, it's like flipping a coin. And sometimes the chemotherapy can really shorten the lifespan of the patients, especially if they have resistant to it radiation. So I think radiation can be more better if we have radio sensitive drugs being given to the patient some chemotherapy. They are radio sensitive like cisplatin. And you give cisplatin with radiotherapy, but you try to make the dose of radiotherapy lower, and you target the CIS bloody with Plato particle, I think you can get better results than just blasting the patient with radiation. And so they the chemotherapy, the oncologist, they have this mindset of single target agents, and the reason they have that because the Big Pharma is controlling it, and they don't like to, you know, in their clinical trials, they don't combine things has to be mono and the reason it's going to be mono therapy is so that they kind of prove it toward FDA. So really, it's their protocols or clinical trials are not really based on what's best for the patient, because it was with best patients. You will look for a trials where they combine many things, where those many things help to navigate the side effects of certain things and empower and enhance the efficacy of that specific chemotherapy. They don't do that because this will make the clinical trial. They don't even know then they will end up knowing which the drug is effective, which not. So they they approve only immunotherapy. So we need to come up with protocols that is supported by not companies, but by the government, that is combined. That's that looks for the best interest of the patient, not to approve the monotherapy. Big Pharma can continue doing that, but before they shifted to the patient, we need to come up with some clinical trials that combine many drugs that's been approved and funded by the government, because nobody's going to fund it. Okay, there's no money if the funding for multi therapy protocols, and that's the reason we are behind the curve, and that's why, the reason why international doctors are more successful because they have this physician autonomy where they can combine things without being scrutinized. Here we can't those oncologists, if they don't follow the strict rules of the Big Pharma the CEO, they will their license will be threatened. So there is no physician autonomy here, and that was RFK, we hopefully that he will budget in here and help to restore the physician autonomy where we are doing what's best for the patients. We still going to use your big pharma products, but we're going to use it wisely and combined with other things and without the interference of the Big Pharma so often ignoring individual variability in drug metabolism. They don't really care about the pharmacokinetics of the drug. They have a cocktail drug, okay, this is good for squamous cell casting dome of the skin. Okay, here's a cocktail, and that's it. Everybody has absolutely they may have some alternative cocktail, you know, switching to it, but it's not. The switch is not based on the pharmacogenetic of the patient. It's based on this one fail. Let's go ahead to the second round. We're gonna do the other cocktail. Okay? And the other thing is that the problem with them, with the chemotherapy, they have the highest dose, right? So they have a period of time where they can do their medication, let's say three months and twice a week, okay? But after that, you cannot do anymore. The reason why? Because if they do any more extra or extend that, it actually will cause suppression of the immune system, which will cause the cancer to flourish in growth, and it will make the cancer more worse. And that's the reason. Say, Oh, the chemotherapy. Say, Okay, we give him the course, we cannot do it again. He has to wait for one year. And to get that, or same thing for radiotherapy, they have to wait for one year to get another sessions of radiotherapy. Um, because, yes, because it's gonna, because already, the body is being depleted. The immune system is being depleted. Any extra chemotherapy, anything you will end up destroying the patient and us as integrative oncology, we're using the low dose, and we're targeting it, and we're using all this integrative therapy that helps to boost the immune system and the mitochondria so we are safe of giving unlimited of our dosage and treatment until we get rid from The cancer. And it's more dynamic versus the oncologist, it's they are more static. So it variability in drug metabolism, mitochondrial health and immune function. As we say, we are modulating the immune system to be polarized into th one, not just by the immunotherapy that the Big Pharma is doing, which we using it too, but we're using it with loaded and and and not text, toxic dose, but also with other supplements and repurposing drugs that we are using, including thymosin alpha and things that would have the TF 17 and have that fibrosis and have the best excessive vascularization that leads to abnormal blood vessels that easily can't, which will eventually stop the prevent infiltration of the lymphocytes at the red blood cells and the oxygen, and lead to hypoxia. So very important to know in cancer, they say, oh, it's highly vascular, so it's how it's hypoxic. Well, it's hypoxic because they are kink they don't allow the red blood cell to carry the oxygen in. And now we learn why the ozone people, they're doing very good, and they're happy. Oh, you know, I treat the cancer. I did the ozone. But the problem with this integrative doctors is that they they they maybe treat one case in third and they say, okay, everything is ozone, everything is oxygen, everything it's photodynamic therapy. Listen, I have this mistake too. I was ignorant. I was thinking photodynamic therapy is the everything, and then ozone photodynamic therapy is everything. Now me and my group, which is the 10 doctors that we are the same page here, we know the cancer is very intelligent, and we don't think that's this is the only thing. It's an onion with many layers, and we're peeling those layers. And we all the time think that the cancer is is finding another tricks. And I am asking you, if there is other tricks than the tricks that we are mentioning here about the cancer, please let me know, because I don't put myself that I am the expertise. Anybody say I'm the expertise? I'm everything in cancer. He's a fool, because this cancer is very intelligent creature. He's very intelligent enemy. And I want to learn, and we all want to learn all the tricks. And I don't think we can get to the all the tricks, but we are learning once we have a complete solutions, and cancer is completely wiped from the universe, then at that time, I will say, Yes, you know, we are winner, but if there's one patient die from cancer, I think we still loser, but still, even if you add one day for the patient's life, it's still better than nothing. The cdpm, chronic disease prevention management, which is a medical specialty that I'm entertaining. I'm hoping I can get to the RFK, and because he's also interested in chronic disease, where to become a board medical specialty, American Medical Association is entertaining this field of medicine. I'm providing CME for many organization, including this one. And this is CME, and we have the link for it. We have actually two links. You can use any links of those. And you can go ahead and get your two CME, even for international doctors. They can get the CME from American Medical Association. They just need to

Speaker 6  1:34:04
translate that certificate into their country board, medical board. So you talk to your medical board. Hey, we got this certificate. Can we translate it to our board? And they will must have American CME are translated translatable to the your country medical board. So a next generation framework that integrate cancer pharmacogenetics. This is what we do, redox signaling. Yes, we modulate the redox we do the photodynamic therapy, where, if we give the photosensitizers, we load inside nanoparticles or cyclodextrin, and we inject it to the body, and those will concentrate in the cancer, and then we shine the light on the cancer to activate those photosensitizers and react with oxygen, generate free radicals to induce apoptosis and immune modulation. We polarize the immune system to th one and have the th two and th 17. So we're doing all that also chemotherapy, a lot of chemotherapy that do have photo sensitive. They are photo sensitive as well. Let's say cisplatin. They are photosensitive to around 200 300 nanometer Dr Robinson, I think in the red light, they're sensitive, same like metal and blue 650, and so we can give the chemotherapy and activate them with light and so generate free radicals. This will empower and enhance the efficacy of those chemotherapy. There's a publication about the low dose for the liquidity, for to activate chemotherapy in one of the university in California. They have a nice publication on that, and we're using low dose so it's not a toxic dose. And we load a site based nanoparticle, and we concentrate into the cancer versus going everywhere. And you can use it unlimited, until you get rid from the cancer and you activate it with light. So you are generating free radicals just by the photosensitizer. In addition to that, chemotherapy interfere with the metabolism, which will eventually lead to increase the free radicals, which will lead to apoptosis. All the chemotherapy, radiotherapy eventually will lead to increase the free radicals, because that's the only way you can induce apoptosis. So we are amplifying the effect of the chemotherapy with light. Again, you can use focusing ultrasound to break down the fibrosis and lowering infiltration of the lymphocytes and the red blood cells carrying the oxygen that's one another way, or you can use Photo ablation as well. And if we are working with the compounding pharmacies to load drugs inside cyclodextrin, I have a pharmacy who's doing it, and at the end of the CME, I may mention their name right now, I can't, but we are working on getting all the injectables cyclodextrin. At cyclodextrin loaded drugs, whether it's peptide or chemotherapy, whatever it's it's better than any drug that's naked because it's it stays longer. It targets the pathology. It absorb better, especially when you using six hormones. But also you can use chemotherapy. And then once you take this encapsulated cyclodextrin, you can go ahead and and still you need to do the place nanoparticle so you make it bigger size, the size of up to 100 nanometers, so you can get this passive infiltration or targeting of the cancer by Applying raise personalized genetic metabolic and mitochondria very important. We definitely help to regain the function of the mitochondria being lost, being lost by the cancer is secreting chemicals that inhabit the mitochondria, because they might the cancer is very smart. Let's say, Hey, this is a ticking bomb. We need to stop it, inhibit it. But then how they get the energy we can use glycolysis. Now, the problem with glycolysis is build up of lactic acid, and lactic acid is going to be toxic to the cancer. The cancer is smart. What they do? They increase the expression of pumping the hydrogen outside the cells. Okay? So they pump out the hydrogen outside the cells, okay. This would keep the cancer pH buffered. What about the outside will be acidic, which is good for the cancer, because acidic environment helps to do two things. One, it will help to polarize the immune system into T, Reg, which will cause a protective shield against the cancer. Second, it will help the acidity of the extracellular environment helps to de differentiate d, d differentiate cancer cells to cancer stem cells. And cancer stem cells, it's very difficult to get read from, because they behave like normal cells. They have enough of antioxidant machinery that neutralize the free radicals that use apoptosis. So they're very resistant, because, you know, they have this antioxidant, we're neutralizing like a normal cells. And so do we have the strategy to inhabit the stem cell, the cancer stem cells? Yes, there's lot of unique pathway in cancer stem cells, which we're going to talk about in the coming slides, that we may inhibit. Plus, doing the immunotherapy may help, plus reactivating the mitochondria and changing the tumor micro environment to alkaline to prevent the differentiation to stem cells and also differentiate them. Once they turn into alkaline environment, they will differentiate, and when they differentiate, you can get rid from it. So it's, it's, we have the this, the tricks, or we know the tricks of this cancer, and we have the counter measurements on counter effect, and so we improve the mitochondria profiling. The cdbm protocols offer safe, smarter, more effective cancer therapy with durable emission remission potential. So conventional oncology did fail. It's population based protocols, and it's sticks and cocktails. Some people are sensitive. Some people are not. It's based on chemotherapy. We know that chemotherapy, radiotherapy damage the mitochondria, damaged the immune system, which is something we don't we don't want, but we're still going to use it, but we're going to use it in a smart way. We're going to use low dose chemotherapy for productivate with light, which is a being published in one of California University more effective than the high dose chemotherapy and radiation. If you want to do it, try to do radio sensitive chemotherapy loaded with side nanoparticles, and still use the radiotherapy. But why are you doing that? You need to give the patient ozone. You need to give them timers and alpha. You need to improve the polarized immune system to th one. You make sure the tumor microenvironment is alkaline. Now I have a problem with those doctors about the alkaline and also, the way they are teaching it, they think, okay, alkaline go ahead and drink alkaline water. All right, that's not how it's going to work. Because if you drink alkaline water, where it goes, goes to stomach, and the acid of the stomach, and that's it, you're done it. Neutralize it. There's no effect there. Or they will say, you know, we are drinking alkaline food. Okay? Alkaline food is not the food has a pH of alkaline. That's that's the misunderstanding, and a lot of oncologists, they become big and famous for the mispresentation of alkaline and acidity. What we're changing is the alkalinity and the acidity of the tumor, micro environment, and you cannot do it by drinking pH alkaline pH food or drinks, okay, but what meant to be alkaline food is a food like polyphenols, a Food that activate the mitochondria. Once you activate the mitochondria, you will be shuttling the lactic acid to the crib cycle and to the oxidation phosphorylation, and you burn it, and you get rid from the building up of the pyrovic acid, or the lactic acid that is the alkaline food. So alkaline food is the food that helps to inhibit the glycolytic pathways. Yes, keto diet, for example, because low sugar, low sugar means less glycolysis, or drugs that inhabit directly the glycolysis, or drugs that inhibit the mitochondria. But it's not like, okay, the alkaline food or drinks is the pH dipping into the pH, and if it's alkaline, that's good for the cancer. If it's acidic, like orange juice is not good because it's acidic, so not good for the cancer. No, no, no. That's that's the that's where the problem is. And some, some oncologists, they integrative oncologist, they they present it that way, and it's completely has nothing to do with, with with, with the the chemistry of what we are looking for, and then the FDA will go after those doctors. And then doctors, they don't have an explanation. That's the problem. But as long as you're explaining, must my YouTube, even the one that I have, and Stefan said, Oh, it's, you know, being censored. No, it's not. It's there. And I don't think I have any YouTube that's been censored up to now. And the reason because those people were listening to our, my lectures and hopefully to your lectures as well, try to back up your lectures with chemistry, because the people who are watching those YouTubes are PhD. They're not clinicians, and the clinicians sometimes they don't explain the chemistry, just because they have this practical and they say that justification. But those PhD on the monitor there, they want chemistry. So once you explain the chemistry, I believe nobody you know will argued chemistry. So the other thing about the conventional they are single targeted agent. They target enzyme or receptor, but those receptors, in time enzymes, they can mutate, and if they mutate, it's done. That's chemotherapy. Will work anymore. Okay? So

Speaker 6  1:44:04
we're going to see in this coming slide the importance of bypassing the those, those resistance, and how we bypass it. We're going to see that in coming slides. So cdbm protocol is based on cancer pharmacokinetics. It also modulate the redox in a way. It will increase the the redox into the cancer, so it will induce apoptosis and kill the cancer. It's immune modulation by polarizing the immune system to th one and CDA, we use photodynamic therapy to generate enough periodicals to induce apoptosis in the cancer, and we use very important, advanced delivery system like cyclodextrin and blades nanoparticle to get those medication to the cancer versus going everywhere. Still, we can use chemotherapy. So that's the difference between savvy integrative doctors who say, Oh no, chemotherapy, no immunotherapy. We want to do only supplements. Oh no, that's not, that's not medicine. I'm still we are doctors. What we learn from from our books, whether it's vaccines or chemotherapy, we're going to use, we're going to use smart if the vaccine is not effective or it's not thing, we're going to say, Oh, we like a vaccine, but COVID vaccine is not. It's not as effective, but we need the COVID vaccine, one that's effective, the one that does not it's immunogenic and it's not pathogenic. But if you give me an immunogenic vaccine is a pathogenic it defeat the purpose, or it give you unbalanced immune system. They defeated purpose. So it's very important that when you present, okay, I'm with vaccine. Who want, who does not want to prime your immune system against the enemy? Yeah, everybody wants to prime the immune system. So we are all as integrative doctor, especially my group. We all want vaccine, but we want a vaccine that is immunogenic and non pathogenic and immunogenic, that gives you balanced immune system, that gives you enough of site of th, one memory, not not immunogenic. Give me th, two memories, and T 17, and it gives you neutral fields when it's facing and antibodies without cytotoxic T cells. And I have a book on that being published in Amazon. You click my name in Amazon, you will find out five books. One of them is the immunological insight of COVID, which shows that we are on we want the vaccine, but we wanted to have the vaccine that's balanced and non pathogenic, personalized. So cdpm is base Protocol, or protocol of cdpm is based on personalized genetics, metabolic mitochondria profiling, providing safer, smarter cancer therapy with, of course, durable remission. Now let's go through the, you know, those slides very fast, because I think, I think I just mentioned everything here that what's the limitation of conventional oncology, the limitation that we have for so it's very important to know what is the pitfall of the weapons that we have and how we can improve it? Don't ditch it. I mean, some savvy integrative docs say, Oh no, I don't want to do chemotherapy at all. No, no. You know those weapons? They are like, you know those blind bombs, chemotherapy, military? Yes, well, we can go ahead and engineer them and make it to be more smart bumps. Would they be selectively getting into the target without collaterals? So we're going to still use them, but we're going to use them smart. So I don't want to upset the Big Pharma here, so they will hear my my lecture here, and they will say, Okay, Dr Halas, you're still using our products. Yeah, I'm going to still use your product. I'm still promoting it, but we're going to promote it in a smart way. Okay, so when chemotherapy, the mainstream strategy, non selective cytotoxicity, right? Toxic to everything, to the healthy and to the cancer, we want to be cytotoxic to the cancer, but not to the healthy. Can we do that, yes, by loading those drugs inside nanoparticles. That's one man you package them. So that's the difference. And we make them smart and make and then the platelets itself. See, see, it's exactly like a targeting bombs, right? Those targeting rockets, where they have the satellites that seize and attach? Well, the same thing for the chemotherapy. We're going to load them into a plateless nanoparticle and play this nanoparticle will be in the size that's up to 880, nanometer that tend to infiltrate or seeps, throw the junctions that's open. That's sneaky for the cancer tissue versus the healthy tissue. That's passive targeting. What about active targeting? The active target platelets itself, naturally, they have receptors on their surface, platelets membrane, which is the plateless nanoparticle that's being packed with the drugs. They have naturally, receptors that target the cancer cells, that target the effective cells, the inflamed cells, the senescent cells. So that's the good thing about plateless nanoparticles, so we're not using it just for using it just for cancer, but we're using it for all the applications. That's what Dr Patel said. I'm not using it for cancer only. I'm using it for immune I'm using it for infection. I'm using it for everything. All. Her injectable is a load of type, because that's smart. Okay, that's what she's and she's one of the smartest doctors, by the way, in this entire universe, because she, she's like a spoon. She, she have her own thing. She adding it to it, but she doesn't have the ego and absorb it I have. Dr, Joseph James, the same thing. Dr William Clearfield, I learned from him a lot. Dr, now you. Dr, got his name? Okay, I got mental block from from Africa. What's his name? Tano, Dr Tanner, one of those, those, those are top doctors, by the way, in this group. And I'm hoping that me and Dr William Clearfield, when we get the number of 100 people here attending and we may join forces to develop a physical meetings because but at 39 is not enough. So if you want to help us to create a physical meeting for and join force with Dr William Clearfield and put that we need 100 so how we get the 100 is you 39 if you can invite three and four every time you come here and you feel this is your room, like I'm doing on Monday. I have my Monday show, but I have less than Dr William. I have only 20. He's getting 40 and 50. I'm jealous, but I'm gonna steal Dr Melvin Nario. Think that's, that's doctor who's bringing a lot of international doctors. So they're Bill, can you? Can Can we trade? Can I? Can I pay you on the table and get mad in my group?

Bill Clearfield  1:50:55
Absolutely not. All right, so I'm keeping Dr Nario, I'm keeping Dr Quinn, and I'm keeping Dr

Speaker 6  1:51:05
Quinn, is mine? No question. Agnario, it's yours. Quinn, I worked with him almost. We've been knowing each other 10 years. He's the one who developed, by the way, the first indocyanine Green nanoparticle. When I was trying to he passed away his wife with ovarian cancer. We did all this photodynamic therapy using Dr Webber's methionine blue, and we did all that. But the problem with those photosensitizers, they absorb red light, so the light does not get into deeper. So we need to find and photosensitize that absorb the infrared, so infrared goes deep and so that's how the this in Arabic language, they say,

Speaker 6  1:52:01
means that the demand is the mother of the discovery. And so I end up looking for, I have to find an FDA approved drug that is photosensitive to the infrared. And let me just little bit see the dog you can read,

Speaker 6  1:52:22
oh yeah, I have my son. You know, Dr Clearfield knows, and I know about my son is knocking the door is making a little bit noise. But anyway, so, and this is part of the lecture, by the way, that this story that I'm going to mention here. So Dr Quinn, I told him, Hey, I find a drug that's in the cyanide green that absorb infrared, and it's FDA approved, but we don't find there's no human studies. It's only for rats and mice. But Dr Quinn said, No problem, as long as FDA approved the drug, we can do it. And he did it, and he made it and but his wife passed away, so during the process, the German they took this idea from him, because he shipped to them, and he's calling me all the time. Dr call. Dr Quinn, we need this product. We need this product. And Dr Quinn, he shut down his pharmacy at that time for some reasons. And you know, most of people know it's all about the politics and all that. But anyway, so he ended up doing it in Germany, and he sold this bias for $4,000 and he made very good business out of it. But again, it's also very effective in terms of and then you go after that, you can see a lot of publications on in the sign angry upon human use. So we can say the German didn't trigger the whole thing. Maybe we started, but the Germans are the one who end up all the colleges and universities, because they did it published in University in Germany, and then the US copy it. It was the same thing for metal and blue. Metal and Blue was not in Amazon. All those metal and Blue was and I came up me and another pharmacist to use it for COVID, and it works very well. And after that, the whole publications, like hundreds and Amazon, is full of metal and blue. Even RFK himself is admitting taking metal and blue for for COVID. So, so it starts here, don't, don't, don't think this if it's a small group, yes, but innovations can start with this small group and it become big, especially with Dr William Clearfield. I mean, come on this. This guy is, is the most intelligent do ever met in this planet along with now you and I know and they don't count. Oh no, no, no, no, let's say Dr Stephen Hartman. Okay. He's a PA position assistant, and his protocols and way that he is treating the patient may be the best among all of us, including myself, because he is implementing the Chronic Disease Prevention management protocol in the right way. He has a gym along with his treatment, and that's what you do when chronic disease if you don't have a gym, you don't have the cryotherapy, you don't have the sound you're missing a lot and optimizing the health of the body. So Dr Stephan, I consider him one of the pioneers, and so the titles does not mean much for me, whether you MD or do or PA, what's what mean for me is the outcome and what you're doing and what you're presenting, and especially here I am in asking you to become more critic and review everything I say here and and I need your opinions, whether it's negative or positive. Negative is sometimes good because it helps us to direct us in the right direction, and I don't get offended. I like that. I like the debates, and that's how the science evolved. Most of the lectures, that's not in two ways. It's spreading misinformation, because it's one angle here. I have no problem. If you say I'm wrong, I'm wrong, correct me, and I will appreciate I will say thank you. But that's what we do in our meetings, whether it's on Monday or Tuesday. So the mainstream strategy there are non selective, cytotoxic it's like blind bombs. Radiation therapy, ionizing cell destruction. They rely on free radicals as well, by the way, and those chemotherapy, radiotherapy will not work without enough of oxygen. So the cancer is hypoxic. You're not it's those chemotherapy and it's not going to work. So you really need to have ozone. So what you're doing as integrative doctors, you're really supporting those mainstream medicine for their drugs to work. And I need mainstream medicine, if they told you about, hey, don't use ozone. All that stuff is interfering with my protocol and all that stuff. Now you can explain it to him. You say, Well, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, depend on oxygen and the tumor is smart enough. He's stopping that from getting into the tissue, so we are helping to bypass it by dissolving the oxygen into the plasma. Or you can take plateless nanoparticle and you can infuse it with with ozone, and then you you give it to the patient with IV. The other thing is that the chemotherapy or mainstream medicine protocol is targeted agents. When those agents were receptors or enzymes or proteins, if they mutate, you're done, that chemotherapy is not going to work anymore, and the cancer start laughing at you back. So other thing those targeting could be the EGFR epidemic of factor, we have inhibitors for those receptors, or the he r2 or estrogen receptor or progesterone receptor maxof Those are targeting, but they can mutate, and if they mutate, it's not going to work. The other thing that mainstream medicine does, immunotherapy, I am very thankful for the PDL one and PD one anti PD, l1 and anti PD one and anti PDL one, and onto CTL, four antibodies. But the problem with them is that they may help to inhibit the T regs around the cancer, which is something good to polarize the immune system, th one. That's what the immunotherapy does. But at same time, you can do it everywhere, and other part of the tissue leading to immune sensitivity of your own self tissue, which leads to collides and other side effects of immunotherapy, which will drain the immune system, and you get back into the problem of draining immune system and draining the exhausting the polarization to th one, because they Start busy moving it to th 17. That's the reason immunotherapy needs to be load inside play this nanoparticle, and then you give it to the patient. And that's where we are different so, so this is the problems of of the chemotherapy. The other thing is that the multi drug resistance, those drugs that patients is receiving easily, can get resistance because they mutate the ABC transporters, those transporters of chemotherapy. You know, the the cancer is having receptors. They express receptors to kick out the chemotherapy from, from, from their body. You know, they're very smart, very intelligent. They just haven't increasing the receptors that that pushes out or kicks out the chemotherapy. Same like bacteria, when they get resistance, they have transporters that kicks out anti antibiotics. Now how we can solve this problem? Okay? So think about it, if the membrane has receptive transporters or shuttles that kicks out the chemotherapy out, right? Okay, but if I use this chemotherapy and I package inside a platelets nanoparticle, which is a membrane, and throw Endocytosis, which I'm taking portion of the membrane of that tumor to get it around that nanoparticle, right? So what would happen to those shuttles that's in the membrane, the physicals of endocytic vesicles, they will be actually pushing the drugs from inside the physicals into the inside of cancer. So those transporters, they will be kicking the drug from inside the plates, nanoparticle that's in the city, inside that cancer, into the cancer, right? That's that's how we can, uh, override the resistance. And we can do that with antibiotics by loading those drugs inside of particles or cyclodextrin, where they they are taking it by endocytosis. Then those shuttles, they will be shuffling the drugs from inside the vesicle into the cancer cell, which is something that we want to concentrate the cancer, chemotherapy into the cancer.

Speaker 6  2:00:59
So that's how we override this. Or we use drugs that inhibit those transporters, but they will mutate, so the best option is to load them inside places and other particles, other challenges, high toxicity, frequent hospitalization. Yes, they, they get this immune suppression, and then infection and and all this things that they, you know, the suppression of the bone marrow and red blood cells low and they end up with plateless, slow and bleeding and all the problems with toxic chemotherapy, lack of personalization. That's what's happening. So now we are learning what's the problem with our weapons that we're using against cancer? It's lack of personalization. So it's like a blind bombs dosing and drug selections, nothing. They don't do the pharmacogenetics, and they're using the high dose. Um, neglect of tumor micro environment. Have you seen any mainstream medicine say about tumor micro environment and changing it and everything, the fibrosis, the changing the environment to alkaline, polarized immune system, CDH, one, inhabiting T Reg, none, mitochondria. Chemotherapy, radiotherapy destroys the mitochondria, and that is very important, because mitochondria is one way to kill the cancer by Mito faci right and redox function also we balance it, because we are know the importance of the normal redox and also polarizing the redox so we generate free radicals, especially when we do photodynamic therapy to induce apoptosis in the cancer. Static statement protocol. You know those protocols are static. They're not dynamic. They're not responsive to real time patients. Biology versus what we do is really we are reversing and studying all those problems, all the weakness of the of the mainstream oncologist weapons, and we making it perfect, and we navigate all the side effects and all the pitfalls there with the strategies that we are using in integrative medicine, whether it's polarizing the immune system to th one and CDA, or activating the mitochondria, or using targeting therapy, which is the delivery technology like plateless nanoparticle to bypass Those resistance so the cdpm, a systemic biology and pharmacological approach, the CDM protocol, views cancer as biological, adaptive, multi access disease. Yes, you know, very important to know that people say, Oh, the cancer is just a metabolic disease. It's a chronic disease. It's not genetic, and they have no clue. Anybody say cancer is metabolic or just immune dysfunction? No, it's all it's immune dysfunction, it's metabolic, it's it's genetic, it's environmental, toxins, all of this call us, and if they all add together to the point then you will end up triggering the cancer, especially when you are challenging the immune surveillance. And you can do that just by psychological stress, by increasing the cortisone. Right? Most of the people having cancer, they have traumatic event that leads to constant high cortisone. Cortisone suppress the cytotoxic T cells, interfere with the immune immune surveillance, and that leads to the conversion of the cancer, right? But then we'll say, Okay, well, someone will come say, Well, my father smoked all his life, and he died at 100 and other ones say, Well, my father smoked and did not smoke, and he died from lung cancer. And the other one who smoked, he did not die, and he passed away at age of 100 the one that he did not smoke. Oh, the one that smoke did not die at the to the age of 100 and the one that did not smoke he died, for example, the age of 4050, so, and people were smoking. They say, hey, you know, I'm I'm 90 years old, and I have no problem with my lung and my friend me, and of course, with that smoking, his voice has changed. He has cancer, and he did not smoke, and he died at age of 50. Yes, it's because they're genetics, and that person had genetic problems that lead to the cancer, but that seems like one who smoke. He has very powerful genetics. It's very good genetically, is able to detox and and so. But if you have both problem with genetics plus problem with environment, then you have high risk of having cancer than anybody else. So another word, it's a combination of immune dysfunction, reduction, balance, mitochondria suppression, metabolic reprogramming and the tumor, micro environment, acidification and fibrosis. And so what about patients with obesity and metabolic syndrome? Yes, obesity metabolic syndrome leads to mast cell activation syndrome, and it can lead to high cortisone, and the cortisone high can can interfere with the immune surveillance, and they push with you at high risk of cancer. So yes, obesity is one risk factor, indirectly that can lead to cancer. The fat tissue also stores all those fat soluble toxins, which most of them, they are, they are tumorogenic. And yes, so you know, patient will obese, they do have high risk of having cancer because of the metabolic syndrome that leads to muscle activation, syndrome leads to cortisone dominance and leads to acidosis, and all that stuff may may lead to lead to mitochondrial dysfunction. All of this together, if he has some genetics there, then those patients, they may have a high risk of having cancer, so health optimization is very important. Now the question is that, what is the risk of having cancer throughout your lifespan? Do you know how much it's around one to two to one to three. It's like a flip of the coin. That's how much the risk in the graves 661, of among six of those people that you see them in the graves and the graveyards died from cancer. And the risk of having cancer throughout your lifespan is one to two, one to three. Some studies one to two, some studies one to three. That's a lot, and I think because of that, we need to come up with an insurance start when the age of 18, what we pay $100 per month so that, when we have cancer, we have at least insurance pays. Because in order to defeat cancer, you need to have at least $10,000 per month, less than that. Don't think about it and all this, uh, constant air two weeks and three weeks. That's a joke, really. Cancer, you need to work on it till you destroy it. And in order to do that, with all the supplements and all the drugs and everything that you're going to give to the patient and all the time and all that stuff, it's, it's, it's a lot and a lot of costs. So if we start with insurance, maybe from the government or from private, where they say Cancer Insurance, where they start collecting $100 per per person, and maybe some government support there, then we have enough money. So when the patient, which is one to two now having risk of cancer, they would have enough funds. So we can do all of this, because those, all this, all these things that we are talking about, it's cost money, and I think that's what the direction maybe, maybe we can reach out to RFK and tell them, you know, this is an eminent risk of people dying from cancer, and they don't have the money to back it up. And I think it's good to have something like this. And also, in addition to that, we need to work on insurance that will cover prevention and health optimization in Japan, do you know that they, in order to you to be qualified to be an employment at government or even private, they measure your abdominal circumference, and if it's above the normal, right? You're not qualified. You're not getting a job. This is how much they are interesting in preventing medicine. And that's kind of a way to push patient or people to optimize their health, and not just eating like we have here United States, 60% 70% with obesity, which most of those obesity patients, they do have some sort of chronic diseases as well. So the Chronic Disease Prevention management protocol via cancer as biological, adaptive, multi access diseases, it is a combination of genetics, immune dysfunction, redox, mitochondrial, metabolic and tumor, micro environment. Okay, we're good with time. We still have another 40 minutes. It's two, it has to be two cm hours. So we have here to 10. And hopefully you're not sleeping, guys and but if you have any questions, go ahead. I don't want the one way lecturing. Um, if there is anybody wants to entertain us with something, go ahead. Everybody's okay here. You're not sleeping. Are you enjoying it? I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:18
Am I still online? Going? Keep going. Alright?

Speaker 6  2:10:21
So the mechanism of cancer resistance and cdpm counter strategies, so now we are going to learn about the tricks of cancer. You know this cancer is tricking us. The problem cancer cell over Express ATP binding cassettes, which are transporters that expel the chemotherapy drugs, leading to multi drug resistance. So they have, they express those receptors to kick out the chemotherapy from from inside the cancer cells, right? That's that's the same thing that bacteria does when they are resisting antibiotics. So what we will do, well, if we pack the drug inside the place nanoparticle, and we bypass that by pushing the drug inside the the cells by Endocytosis, then those membrane who has the transporters now where they're gonna kick, they're gonna kick the drugs from the inside of the physical into the tumor, which is good, all right. Does that make sense that you did? You do imagine it. In fact, this will be a good thing. So what all we need to do is just go ahead, take those drugs, load inside, place nanoparticle use Endocytosis, and you can bypass this problem. The other ones is that you have, we have drugs that inhibit those key transporters. They're out there, and that's what we do. But I think the plateless nanoparticle will be the good option that we can do, along with you can use, you know, acgc, that helps to inhibit some expression of those transporters. We use both use, use, the increase decreases the expression of those transporters. But again, when, when you have the drug, is moving to endocytosis. Those transporters, in fact, they will concentrate the drug into the tumor. They will kick the the drugs into from the inside of physical into the tumor, which is something that we favor. So that's the solution that the chemotherapy had, that we have to have problem with. This was just one, one way of resistance. Tumors survive genotoxic stress by upregulation DNA repair and pathway, so we're trying to kill them, but they are trying to survive. So they have a lot of mechanism of repairing. When we are trying to destroy the DNA by interfering with their metabolism or by radiotherapy, they end up fixing those DNA by expressing those enzymes that repair those double DNA stranded and all that stuff. So we can go ahead and give them chemicals or drugs or supplements that helps to inhibit those repair and that possibly leads to the killing of the cancer. So that's one way of doing it, which is inhibiting those repair enzyme that repairs those DNA. And there are many inhibitors, PARP inhibitors, which is the OLA Ola parip is one drug that blocks the single strand repair so and including synthetic lethality and BRCA mutated tumors, checkpoint and kinase inhibitors. Also, we can use it to inhibit those repair enzymes that is trying to prevent those cancers from from dying. Or we can enhance the free radicals more. How we can generate more free radicals to to over come the repair because what's destroying those DNA is the free radicals. So we give them ozone, we give them that, we give them photodynamic therapy, metal and blue for the All of this helps to overcome, well, on the repair machinery of the of the cancer. And you can see that in illustration here, very clearly about how the cancer is upgrading, or they are up regulating the expression of those repair enzymes like the BRCA. And one way of doing it is to overwhelm them by concentrating in the tumor, those photosensitizers shine with light and generate too much of free radicals where they cannot repair it anymore. That's, you know, they cannot. They will overwhelm the repair mechanism. Or we go and give them drugs that inhibit the repair. I prefer photodynamic therapy and low dose chemotherapy. Activate with light over inhibiting the repair mechanism, because possibly those repair mechanism is going to be also for the normal tissues. And so just do low dose chemotherapy, protect with light along with photosensitizers. But if you think that this will help. Just go ahead, but think about it, if they're inhibiting the repair, unless those repair mechanism or pathway, it's unique for the cancer, it's not going to be affecting the healthy tissue, then it's okay. Or you load those drugs inside. It's not a particle and psycho dexterous, so you can move those drugs into the cancer versus going everywhere. So that's another option that you can do, make sure all your drugs is low desire presence in the particle, so you don't affect the the repair mechanism of the normal tissue. Now the problem also with the cancer is doing so the tricks you know, we're learning, we're learning the the enemy, the the strategy of the enemy. So we can, we can feed defeat and destroy it and kill it. Cancer cells invade, programming cell death, right, whether by the B cell, lymphoma, two and which inhibit the mitochondria. Right? Mitochondria is responsible for mitophagy and killing the cancer cells. So what the cancer does is secrete chemicals that inhabit the mitochondria. The mitochondria is a bomb, ticking bomb that will induce mitophagy. So the cancer is smart, intelligent, expressing those pathways to inhibit the mitochondria, stop the mitochondria from working and stopping the mitophagy. Plus doing that, you end up with building up acid, which is lactic acid, but the tumor is smart, will pump those lactic acid into the extracellular environment to keep this tumor pH buffered. But the extracellular tumor environment that's acidic is going to be in favor of the cancer because it will polarize the immune system to T Reg, plus it will de differentiate the cancer cells to stem cells. What are the things that the tumor does? It's mutating the P 50 3p. 53 we know it's the enzyme that the triggered apoptosis, and they mutate it so they don't they don't die, and they start dividing continually. Now what we will do here, we will introduce the P 53 throw embolic Alexis, so that's one way, or we look at the way to activate the P 53 so tumor suppressor genes is often mutated or degraded via this mouse double minor two, minute two or minor two. So cdpm solution you use Veno didn't talk Vin, then it talk lacks and inhibits the BCL one. That's one way and reactivate the mitochondriapoptosis. Or you use the new Tolin three blocks, the MDM two and restore the functional P 53 that's one. Or you can go ahead and give umbilical exosome, which contain healthy P 53 that may be well introduced inside the cancer, and induce apoptosis again. Again, if you use exosomes, try to use exosome in a way that it's like poisoning or killing a rat or spice in your house, right? So what you do exosomes, the they do tend to concentrate in the cancer, by the way, but also they have some growth factors there. So it's like a sword with two edges. They have pa 53 which is good for cancer, but also they have growth factors. So what I would do, I will load those exosomes with chemotherapy and photosynthesizers and AMPK activators or MT inhibitors, and then pack it with those poisons. So when the cancer is taking, then it will help to favor the destruction versus the growth. The other thing is that you can do it to induce apoptosis. Is to give the product dynamic therapy or low dose productivity chemotherapy, which will generate enough oxygen and free radicals that will push the apoptosis and overwhelm the tricks of your cancer.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:55
Okay,

Speaker 6  2:18:59
Warburg metabolism and tumor acidosis. So as we know that the cancer itself secretes chemicals to inhabit the mitochondria. When you have the mitochondria, you're inhabiting the oxidation phosphorylation, and you're inhabiting the crevice cycle, and you're having the breaking down of the lactic acid. So lactic acid will go with pyruvic acid, so pyrobic acid will be turned to lactic acid, be kicked out of the tumor cells, and turn the tumor into micro, acidic micro environment. And we know the acidic micro environment is in favor of the cancer, because of turn the immune system into T Reg, which protect the cancer and also the differentiate the cancer cells against the cell to cancer stem cells. So how we can override this? So how we can counter this? Well, we can do it by low sugar keto diet, because you have low sugar locally, caused you have less glycolysis, right? That's one way. Or we give them drugs that inhibit the glycolysis, or we give them drugs that activate the mitochondria. And when you activate the mitochondria, you are burning the pyruvic acid into CO two and water in a state of turning into lactic acid. So all those things that we can do, and of course, the cancer is secreting all these chemicals to boost the glycolysis and inhibit the oxidation phosphorylation, like they are up regulating the monocarboxylase transporters, which will kick the lactic acid and protons outside the cells, which is definitely turns to a micro environment, acidic which in favor of of the cancer growth, or they increase The expression of carbonic anhydrase, which will turn the pyruvic acid to lactic acid. I would increase the expression of vacular type ATPase, vacular type FDS, which helps to pump the hydrogen out, the proton out. So what you do? You give a drug that inhibit the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase, which converts the pyruvate into lactic acid, restore the pyruvate dehydrogenase, which breaks down the pyruvate, and getting inside the mitochondria to be burned, activates the mitochondrial oxidation, or you use polyphenols like quesiton, ECGC, curcumin, all of this helps to activate the mitochondria, or have the glycolysis and electric sport. By those polyphenols, I'm not that in favor of saying drinking sodium bicarbonate. Maybe IV sodium bicarbonate. Maybe that's good. But you know, the blood has ability to buffer them, unless you're injecting it into the tumor. I don't know about sodium bicarbonate. I'm not in favor of that, nor I'm favor of proton pump. Unless the proton pump works on the cancer cells itself, then that's good. But if it's thinking about proton pump in the stomach, no. But if they're working the cancer cells and they inhibit the pumping of hydrogen into the extracellular environment, I'm in favor of that, and I need now you to investigate this more if you can, because now you, I think he's going to pick up on all these things and and make it even better. I, I know he's very smart. He's he reminded me about Dr juicer James. He all the time, able to make even things more better, right? But I want you, Dr Neri, if you can investigate about the proton pump inhibitors. Because I'm, um, I don't know about if it's if it's going to inhibit the acidity in the stomach, it's not gonna do much. But if it's gonna inhibit the the tumor cells from pumping hydrogen ion, I think it's okay. Neutralizing is a similar acidity. Ketogenic diet, fasting, matching is very important, right? I think it. Fasting is religious thing, whether you're Christian or Jews or Muslim. I think fasting, and all their other all the religious they they do sort of fasting, by the way, which will reduce the glucose fuel supply. And I like the fasting to be 12 hours apart, like taking breakfast and then don't do snacks, snacks. I'm not if we do all of that, we don't do snacks. So that we can keep the 12 hours where we can activate the APK and inhibit them tour and and induce up autophagy of the senescent cells, cancer cells and inflammasomes containing cells. Okay, so I think we already talked about the this picture, right? You see it there? Very clear. Okay. Now, one other trick of the cancer is they secrete chemicals. They secrete transforming growth factor, beta interleukin 10, which leads to fibrosis. Oh, the fibrosis a very damn thing. My dad passed away from hypopharyngeal carcinoma, and when he did the radiotherapy, he did shrink the cancer, and he starts swallowing, but he shrinked, but it's not eliminating. And when he did the CT scan, you can see that there's little spot in his in his throat and his pharyngeal, like a little lamp, which is that's indicators glycolysis, and because the pit scan is basically radiated radioactive glucose, right? So it's, you can see it's a little lamp in his pit scan, which indicated this tumor. Okay, so, but when we, um, I tried with him doing photodynamic therapy at that time, I don't know much. It's like five years ago maybe in the five years from now, we will know better than now, right, especially with with now you and to know here, Dr William Clearfield, they will take all of this and scrutinize then make it even better. So in five years, going to be this kind of thing is going to be big thing, and it's going to be in a mainstream practice, hopefully, but that's what, that's what, if we join forces, right then we drop the ego between us, and we start putting our hands and sharing each other that we can take this to the next level. And I'm surrounded by smart people, you know, those, those my team and we are friends, and Buddy Buddy, by the way. So what happened is that, you know, when I saw I saw that and was kind of turn off. And when we took him to Germany, even the dynamic therapy is not working, you don't the metal and blue is not staining that cancer, right? So what the what happened when they did the radiotherapy and chemotherapy, we got read from all the daughters cancer cells, which is the differentiated cancer cells, but they end up because of the chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Well, he did not do much of chemotherapy because he has heart failure, so that's one of the problem, but he did radiotherapy, and what happened is that the cancer cells so smart they are secreting chemicals, especially when you block the mitochondria and you turn the environment to acidic. And instead of environment leads to polarization of the immune system to T Reg, but also to th two, by the way, and th 17, which leads to increase the fibrosis, you know, and the fibrosis and the cancer itself secretes all this. When they get threatened, they start secreting transforming growth factor beta and the fibrosis, along with turning those cancer cells into stem cells, so you have 10 cells and fibrotic shields, and the fibrotic itself can protect the cancer from the radiation, right? They take the hex like a shield, and they're hiding inside this little shield of it's like a spiral shield of fibrosis, right? And they're hiding inside it. And those fibrosis, what they do, they squeeze the blood vessels and preventing the infiltration of the red blood cells, which create oxygen and the lymphocyte infiltration, and they start, they stay there, hibernated for the time when they have radiation. So it's kind of way to protect themselves. And once the course of radiation is done, everything is done, then they start dividing and growing and expanding, even more worse than because they become more resistance to all those things that we're doing, and especially kinds of stem cells, they are behave like normal cells. They have antioxidant machinery, same like normal cells, so they can neutralize those free radicals, and they have a good repair mechanism. And so even when you do metal blue and all that stuff, it's, it's, it's not staining, it's not getting there as we wanted and and that's the reason it's failing. And at that time, I don't know about, you know, those things. I don't know about breaking the fibrosis using focusing ultrasound or giving also tan, or giving glotto, or giving even nattokinase. You know problem nattokinase, it's not just destroying the breaking down the fibrin of the of the clotting factors. So the fibrin, no, it also breaks the fibrosis. By the way, the natkin is so I have no clue about this thing, except when I know, I think I may be able to break this fibrosis, open up those blood vessels, allowing the infiltration of red blood cells and in the lymphocytes. But that's what happened. It's in it's ignorance of that we don't know, and now we know, and I think after five years, we will know even better, right? So that's what's happening to cancer. They do fibrosis, they increase the blood they increase the vascular detail, growth factors and and this leads to fibrosis, leads to grow a blood vessels, but they're kinked, and that's the problem, and those cancers will be protected with the fibrosis and it become hypoxic. So what we can do now we

Speaker 6  2:28:23
need to go ahead and reverse that right by giving bromine nitokinaseokinase, which helps to degrade both the fibrotic matrix and the fibrin. You know, those cancer cells also secrete into looking six, because of activation of th, 17 and two nucleus six leads to activation of the clotting, and they become more coggable, and they form fibrin and platelets and no fibrin plate is also protecting the cancer same way, like fibrosis, and that's reason, giving a low dose aspirin will be something good, but nattokinase, streptokinase, will do both. Will break down the fibrin and the fibrosis. And you can use Clotho. You can also use loser tan. Also it's good to bypass that, that squeezing of blood vessels by dissolving more oxygen to the blood using ozone oxygen chamber. And all of this may help in and eventually and using plates, nanoparticles loaded with drugs, that is one way to help as well getting it into inside the cancer. And you can infuse those plate particle with, with with oxygen as well. Alright, so we're good with this. Okay, so let's go with another way that cancer works, and we still have 15 minutes. The other way that the cancer works is by polarizing the immune system away from cytotoxic T cells and the th one, they secrete all those chemicals, especially transforming growth factor, beta intrale, contend and do, vascular material growth factors. All of this helps to polarize the immune system, along with the acute the tumor inhibit the mitochondria, leading to extracellular acidosis. Acidosis leads to favor the polarization into T reg and th two and th 17 away from th one. So what we would do mainstream medicine, they came up with immuno oncology drugs, or immuno immunologist, immune oncologist drug, or immunotherapy drug, which is anti PDL one and anti CTL four, which will help to to to prevent inhibition of the of the naivety cells and turning into T Rex. So if you do those antibodies, if they attach to PD one or PDL one, it will prevent the inhibition effect of the of the cancer cells to T Rex. So when the cancer cells is being facing with the T cells after it's being presented by the macrophages, right as you see it there, the PD one will lead to inhibition or polarization of those naivety Tregs into naive T cells into T regs, and you have a lot of T regs forming a shield protecting the cancer. So if you block it, then what will happen when the when the antigen presenting cells is presenting those things or to to the to the cancer, to the to the to the Navy cell, they will polarize into th one and and and it helps to kill the cancer. So that's, that's how we can override or, or this challenge that that the cancer is doing, which is expressing those PD ones that leads to shutting down the the naivety sales and turning into Tregs. We if we block them with antibodies, then they will not be shut down, and they will polarize into cytotoxic T cells, which will help to kill those cancers and those antibodies. If you give them nakedly, it may lead to collides and autoimmune and normal tissue become insensitive and they you break the immune tolerance with it. So the best option is to load them inside based nanoparticles, antipd and one, anti CTF, four and anti PD ones, which is the Novi the nivo lab. This is one example, or you can use supplements also helps in inhibiting T regs like curcumin, ECGC and reserve troll. Or you use butyric acids from the probiotics and postbiotics that would inhibit the th 17 polarized immune system to th one. Or you empower the redox signaling which will help to break down those tumor cells ozone and match, and this may help to enhance the audition presentation by breaking down and enhance the cytotoxicity of the cytotoxic T cell, T lymphocytes, against the cancer. Okay, so there's a lot of way to polarize the immune system to th one, whether antibodies or supplements or probiotics, they inhibit the th two, or any other drugs that have the th two and th 17, like ivermectin, doesn't have the th 17. Plus ivermectin does inhibit some signaling, especially for cancer stem cells, by the way, for victims, good thing for cancer stem cells, because they do inhibit some signaling of cancer stem cells, which is the another challenge that the cancer is using to trick us, or, in other words, to over to protect himself against our weapons. They They polarize, or they differentiate, differentiate into cancer stem cells. And those cancer cells, they behave like normal cells in terms of they have enough of antioxidant machinery that neutralize the free radicals, and they become quiescent and high variety sometimes and then, and they spread too. They divide and spread and all that stuff, yes, but they are very resistant. So what we will do, we will find out is any you know, unique pathways that that specifically for cancer stem cells that we can block? Yes, the wnt, the the notch signaling, the etch, all of those signaling pathway we can inhibit them using some drugs, polyphenols. Can be doing that along metformin and selenomycin, plus other drugs that's under investigation that can inhibit those pathways. In addition, if we work on everything that we talked about, you know, modulating the redox and activating the mitochondria and the immune polarization and in activating cytos, all of this would help and turning the two micro environment from acidic to alkaline, which will help to differentiate those cancer cells into differentiating one which is easily you can get bread from them. All of this together, we may end up winning the battle against the cancer tricks. So cancer is like a magician, and you need to know all the tricks in order to expose him, otherwise he will definitely end up winning at the end of the day. So we want to be more smarter than the cancer, and to do that, we need to kind of knowing all the tricks of the cancer. The other thing we do is to take photosensitizers that is sensitive to certain wavelengths of light, like metal and blue is sensitized to 650, or 670, nanometer. We load the site based nanoparticle injective the body. They concentrate the cancer, and then we radiate the cancer with light. It activates those photosensitizers generate enough free radicals that will induce apoptosis and kill the cancer, but we can use that for chemotherapy. Doxy Robinson, for example, they absorb the red light as well and will help with load on site based nanoparticle, and we can inject them so we can benefit from the action of Doxy Robinson in blocking certain pathway in the cancer, but also in generating free radicals. So this will enhance and boost the efficacy of the of the chemotherapy, and we use beta nanoparticle to help in concentrating those, those drugs and supplements over those photosensitizing into the cancer. So that's one way of but again, combination of everything, we can definitely win the battle here. So again, very important those drugs and supplements and peptides, whatever we use, we it needs to be specific for that cancer. So how we do that? We take biopsy from the cancer, or we take the blood sample, circulating tumor cells, we send it to the rgcc lab or other labs, and there's not much in the United States. The reason why because FDA is still skeptics about the results, and because of the cancer is changing. So those cocktail of drugs may work now, but will not work after 10 days or one day or things, but it's a good thing still, because you still narrow down to drugs and supplement that we think it's going to work, and then we can enhance even if they have drug resistance. We're smart. We can overcome that by loading inside place nanoparticle. So, yeah, they may develop resistance, that's fine, but we're we're doing it. We play this nanoparticle here and possibly this, along with other things, we can override the resistance. FDA, have no clue about that. We are smart enough to even over smart those cancer resistant pathway so, but it's better than just giving, you know, chemotherapy cocktail without testing it again. It's the cancer sensitivity. So that is the pharmacogenetics.

Speaker 6  2:37:47
I have clinical cases, but it seems like, Okay, I have a clinical case. And it seems like when I load it, here is not the one, and the time, I think it's 10 minutes. I promise next Monday, if you want clinical cases, either, Dr William will give me another time. I can give you eight cases that will enough for two hours, case per 15 minutes, or you can come next Monday in my show, and I will go ahead with eight cases. It seems like I love the wrong one. Otherwise, there was a clinical case at the end of it, because I think time is over and people are sleeping here and they have a lot of questions. So let's do that in the next meeting, whether in Monday or Tuesday. Is that good? Dr William,

Unknown Speaker  2:38:38
yep. All right. Sounds good.

Unknown Speaker  2:38:43
Okay, any questions?

Bill Clearfield  2:38:47
Okay, thank you so much. Dr halasa, let's see study in rats exposed gamma radiation shows that nano kinase 720 Fu, kilograms per day exhibited antioxidant effects reducing MDA and lactate dehydrogenase. This suggests a potential protective role against radiation induced lung injury that the findings are pre clinical, pre clinical.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:15
Okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:39:22
so Dr Nario, you have any you have anything on online?

Speaker 2  2:39:27
I was just answering that. I'm sorry. I was answering that question. Somebody asked if they could do nattokinase while they're on radiation therapy. Somebody asked that in the chat, so I was answering, I'm sorry,

Speaker 6  2:39:38
yes, yes. Because even better, because you want to break the fibrosis, you can do nattokinase. You can do a zone. You can do oxygen. You don't want to give reduce it, glutathione, anything that's reduced, because you want to have some free radicals in the one and navigate that and then negate that. You can give NAT as oxidized Nat, but not NADH. That's fine too. You can give ozone oxygen, but when we go to the clinical cases, which is next week, Monday or Tuesday, depend on the schedule. Doctor, William or my Monday, I will commit to put it in for eight cases, we will see like cases that is being you know, the whole program has been applied into a clinical case, which will give you better understanding and visualizing what we're doing. And the nattokinase is not just to break the fibrain, which we think that's only for clotting factor, but also for fibrosis. So what's good, especially with Office sclerosis, you know, other sclerosis, it's three things. There is plaques of fat oxidized LDL inside the macrophages, which needs to be cleared by cyclodextrin. But also there's calcium deposit, which needs to be cleared by EDTA. And also there's fibrosis which needs to be given that to kinase. So when you treat octosclerosis, it's better if you load cyclodextrin with with the EDTA, which you can do it with a compounding pharmacy. And hopefully we can stop the recording so we can talk about other things. Can you do that? Dr William, so we can

Bill Clearfield  2:41:20
open up. Go ahead.

Speaker 6  2:41:24
Hi. So strive pharmacy is the pharmacy who's doing this right now. They bought a lot of equipments for loading drugs inside psycho Dexter, and hopefully they will create a supersatory with cyclodextrin load with EDTA and possibly with nattokinase. Or you can take nattokinase orally, but I like the psycho addiction to be loaded inside nattokinase and EDTA. So we can do three things in auto sclerosis. We can break the fibrosis, which is part of the osclerosis, is fibrosis. We can clear the oxidized LDL, those fat, fat things, because cyclodexing will work like a cargo and like high density lipoprotein. But even better, and they go to the blood vessels inside, and then they scrap those oxidized fat LDL and plaques. So that's a good thing about it, and adta, which will clear up the calcium. So this is the best regimen for treating arthrosclerosis. But again, because nattokinase, it's not just inhibiting the fibrins, which is also part of vascular as you will see, fibrin there as well, but also the fibrosis itself. And you can add lozar Tan, low dose, very low, like five milligram or 10 milligram, which will not affect the blood pressure by that dose as an anti fibrotic. It's been used eye drop lozar tan to inhibit the cordial scar. That's how much is effective. It's it does inhibit the Enter for transforming growth factor, beta. That's the mechanism of action there. Throw inhibiting the because those are 10. Inhibit the ARB. And when you inhibit the IRB, you inhibit the fibrotic, or the inflammatory arm of the renin angiotensin system, which is the blocking the the the receptor of Angiotensin Receptor blocker type one, and that signal the fibrosis. So you're inhibiting the whole process of fibrosis, plus you can give clothe to as well to break the fibrosis. And then you can use the focusing ultrasound. So if you go to Germany, which I'm going Dr Webber, you can hear the sound you're using Shockwave, but not Shockwave, that will work better, but you can hear the sound of shocking, shocking waving all the cancers. So you can hear blah blah, blah blah, blah, blah blah in this clinic, focusing ultrasound does not have that voice. It's more and it gets into the cancer without that, the shockwave thing. So I think focus elder sounds better than Shockwave. And when you're treating cancers to break in relation to the PPIs, as you mentioned a while ago, yeah, the action of the PPIs on the vatpa says channel on the cells. That's the one probably related to that lowering of the acidic environment. But in relation to further studies, why? In our practice, it's not something that we implement. Yet, we found out on other evidences that the detrimental effects of ppi, such as the alteration of the microbiome and also the multiple deficiencies in nutrients that it creates, kind of outweighs the risks and benefits of using PPIs in in cancer patients. So that's why it's a protocol that's still it's something that we're investigating on but so far as the evidence and evidence just kind of tells us it's still not a convincing win for PPIs, but there is probably a time and place for that. Just wanted to give light to that ppi. Thank you very much. No, I know. I know that's what you're going to do, and that's what actually the reason you know this group, it's innovative and increasing, and maybe in three years and four years, you will hear from doctor now you lecture even way advanced than what I have. I'm just trying to trigger things, and I'm learning from you guys connecting dots, and then, you know, trying to tease you and squeeze you out. Because I know, you know the intelligence that everybody possess here in this group. So here's a here's a good question for your discussion. So they saw NAD a lot in your in your slides in relation to cancer therapy. So where do you stand in this controversy of, should you use NAD in cancer, or should you not use NAD in cancer? No you use NAD in cancer, especially if it's oxidized form, and the reason, because you the the way that the cancer is being killed is by NOx enzymes to generate free radicals. And NOx enzyme needs NADH or NAD to generate the free radicals, so eventually they will turn into Nash, but in and then the Nash will be taken by this enzyme reacting with oxygen and leads to generation of free radicals. So NAD is very important, and also it helps to activate the mitochondria, because the NAD is electron acceptor, and you need that to to push the electrons throw electron transport chains to activate the mitochondria. So you can move the pyruvic acid all the way to be burned right that is electron acceptor in the mitochondria. So in order to burn those lactic acid you need to have an electron acceptor, which is NAD. So I think NAD, it's important for both for tumor micro environment to turn it into alkaline. Plus NAD is they're used by enzymes that generate the free radicals to kill the cancer. I think the controversy of NAD can be compared to the controversy of using testosterone. So when, when people are saying about that's a use testosterone before developing prostate cancer, to prevent formation of prostate cancer. I think the conversation of NAD falls into that aspect as well. Using NAD definitely will be a more preventative form of of, actually, protection for for cancer. I mean, of course, as you mentioned, this is ongoing cancer, but a big picture here that of advice for our patients definitely prevent cancer by using NAD early, before it's development. So another question here is, you mentioned Doctor Patel has cases that she stated she got miracles out of NAD. I don't know if she's still here or not. So there's some cases where they got very good again. In cancer arena, it's a game of many factors, and we're still investigating accord. There is nothing that favor the cancer using NAD, because it activate the mitochondria and it's part of it will not be in the side of in favor of the cancer, by all means, because the cancer will not use the NAD. They actually shutting it down. They shutting down the mitochondria. So what? And they have enough NAD to to continue the glycolysis endogenously, but you need a lot of NAD to to activate the engine of mitochondria. Well, you mentioned about mitochondria also. So here's another question that your target here is to kill mitochondria. No debate the mitochondria not to kill it, meaning cancer cells, inactive cancer cells. Tricks is to inhibit the mitochondria. Yes, right. So there. The question here is, how can you attack the mitochondria of the cancer cells and basically maintaining the healthy mitochondria of the healthy cells? Basically, no, no, no. I think you got it wrong that we want to activate the mitochondria inside the cancer. Okay? The the cancer drug, the cancer itself, is inhibiting the mitochondria, because the mitochondria is a mitophagy. It's like a ticking bomb and chemotherapy that the chemotherapies are using, it's destroying the mitochondria, which is in favor of the cancer, not against the cancer. So we want to activate the mitochondrion cancers, because that will lead to generation of enough of free radicals to kill the cancer that will turn the tumor micro environment into more alkaline so we're giving polyphenols and things that activate the mitochondria the cancer. Does that make sense? Right? Right? So they probably were thinking that the mitochondria of the cancer cell is something that you want to deactivate, but in your what you're saying is you need to reactivate that and come alive so it can self destruct. Is that what you're trying yes, many, many, many reasons we want to activate the mitochondria. One is to turn the geo micro environment to alkaline by activating the mitochondria, which is good for stem cell cancer stem cells to get rid from them. And the other thing is that once the mitochondria is active, it will induce apoptosis. The cancer is inhibiting the mitochondestal Warburg effect so they can. They rely on glycolyte Glycolysis to generate their energy. They don't want the mitochondria to be functioning at all, and that's the reason they're squeezing and shutting down the oxygen from going in, because this will activate the mitochondria. They don't want that. That's why they're squeezing the blood vessels and preventing the red blood cells from infiltrating in to get into to get oxygen in. That's the reason of those cancer cells. They're hypoxic, okay, cancer when you're trying to counter it, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:50:59
Oh, good, good doctor. Patel, okay,

Speaker 9  2:51:02
thank you, doctor, so So would you? Would you then, if that is the story, would you give NAD as a cloaked with PNP, or you would just give as a naked because if that is what you want, then it may be a good to make First NAD a nano and then cloak it with PNP, so it delivers directly where we need in a micro environment and and circulating cancer cells, of course, but some of the patients are reading something wrong on, on some of the sides AI sites, they really say, I do not want an NAD. So, I mean, usually I do give them NAD, but it becomes difficult, because their brain is fixed that energy is going to make their mitochondria more powerful and the cancer cells, it will empower the cancer cells. No, no, the cancer I know. I agree with you what you are saying. So where did you get these? I mean, what I want is the reference to give it to them so that they can, they can read it, and then then they say, Okay, I'm on the right track. Number one and number two is that we've been using exosomes. But in some of the cancer patients, the exosomes have increased the clotting factor, particularly D dimer. It has increased the D dimer. And then, when we looked into the references, it does say that in some patients, it will increase the D dimer. So I need answer for these two things.

Speaker 6  2:52:59
Well, if the exosome is not pure and there is some rejection, then, then the D dimers will go up. That's a sign that the quality of the exosome was not good. But those exosomes, you don't, I don't like to give them by itself. If you extrude it with chemotherapy and things peptides, it's like poison the the cheese to kill the mice. So that what I would do. And yes, there is there

Speaker 9  2:53:30
no, no, even if you don't clock it with the with the chemo or anything, and you give exosomes for the inflammation to calm down the inflammation, or auto autoimmune activation, you can give it naked but, but the point is that why? And it is not a bad, bad one, because the company I am using is one of the promoter so. So the thing is that why does it increase the D dimer?

Speaker 6  2:54:02
I think it decreases D dimer because the body sees it as a foreign and anything that mu injectin is reacting to it, maybe not all patients, there is some immune reaction to the exosomes.

Speaker 9  2:54:15
I have three patients that I have used and now onwards, I just tell them that.

Speaker 6  2:54:22
So what you do? Just go negate that with nattokinase. I

Speaker 9  2:54:26
do that. I do that. But I just wanted to, I wanted to find out. So now I tell them that, you know, if d dimer goes up, when we do it, if it goes up, don't be alarmed that you are developing because you you are going to anyhow, in cancer patients, you know, they can take the Lumpur kinase or NATO kinase or or all of the above, yeah, and the cancer

Speaker 6  2:54:49
itself increase the dimer as well. You don't know whether it's exosomes or did the cancer itself, and sometimes when you break the cancer, that's very important. And you know that, you know the

Speaker 9  2:54:59
tumor license, we do that D dimer, we didn't. So the D dimer

Unknown Speaker  2:55:03
goes up as part of the tumor license.

Speaker 9  2:55:06
But if the patient when, when they did not have a D dimer, up for for half a dozen time, and then when you start giving exosomes, and it goes up, then, you know, that's the that's the culprit. Well,

Speaker 6  2:55:21
here's the thing. Now, this is one of the problem that I hear a lot of those oncologists, and they are measuring the tumor biomarkers, including D dimers during the process of the chemotherapy or during the treatment. It does not mean nothing, because the treatment itself, if they destroy the cancer, exculpating inflammation, that inflammation can increase the D dimer. So we don't know what those D timer source of it could be, because of tumor license itself, and you're doing good thing about it, and that's what I hear. There's a doctor that she told me, Oh, the oncologist, she came after me, and she said I was doing chemotherapy, and now his biomarkers is high because you give them ozone, well, she's giving chemotherapy. What do you expect? The demo biomarkers will go all up because you're destroying the tumor, it's been released out. It's wrong to measure during the during the treatment those biomarkers, because you expect to go high, it doesn't go higher. You're not destroying the tumors. But when you measure it after the finish up from the chemotherapy in two, three weeks, then you will see that if you are able to drop it versus the beginning of the treatment, but not during the chemo. And that apply for all the treatments that we are giving. So anything that during the treatment, for me, does not mean nothing. It does not really challenge.

Speaker 9  2:56:37
Post treatment, you can do that three weeks, yeah.

Speaker 6  2:56:42
Post treatment, after two, three weeks, you can check and see if you what you did at the beginning and then is better. Most of the time you will see the patient is it's better.

Unknown Speaker  2:56:54
And have you seen P 53 you

Speaker 6  2:56:56
told me one time that you have a patient with cancer, and we give them an ad, it was a miracle, and she completely removed

Unknown Speaker  2:57:02
that. Yeah, exactly.

Unknown Speaker  2:57:03
You told me that

Speaker 9  2:57:07
I've been giving it. I've been giving it to most of my patients, but the one patient brought the reference from AI and says, look here, it says that it empowers the cancer cells, and i That's why I don't want if you don't want it, we won't give it because,

Speaker 6  2:57:27
yeah, you take the patient's permission all the time, whatever. They don't refuse. You don't do it. That's the position. That's the

Speaker 9  2:57:34
patient energy. And exosomes, they have really helped. And another thing was glutathione and and we say, oh, never give glutathione, but if patient is debilitated, I think, and you have not given any treatment, I think sometime glutathione does help, because the normal natural cell does need glutathione. We don't want to empower cancer cells with glutathione.

Speaker 6  2:58:03
As long as you're adding Mac to to recycle the glutamate, that will be okay. Yeah, you got my point, because the glutamate can be can feed the cancer,

Speaker 9  2:58:15
cure the patient. I mean, we can never say cure the patient. Which

Speaker 6  2:58:19
patient, as long as giving back and glycine with good five

Speaker 9  2:58:24
year, five year, survival was tremendous. She was living as normal as she can, and after five years, that is something important to listen. After five years, she thought she was just perfectly normal. Her diet changed, her lifestyle change, and then she developed the Mets in her brain. Of course, they did Gamma Knife, and she's fine. So now we do, periodically, all the treatment on her. And she does photobiomodulation. She does also, the more like a ozone oxygen treatment. And, you know, lot of other treatments,

Speaker 2  2:59:08
right? I had a question about the glutathione. I you know, I don't think you'd want to pair it with chemo or any oxidative therapies, but wouldn't you want to use it for the immune boost and the boost in the natural killer cells in some of the cancer patients? Possibly

Speaker 6  2:59:25
You're right. So the chemotherapy will go against you when you giving especially the reduced glutathione reduced forms, because it will neutralize the oxidative stress that you are using by the chemotherapy radiotherapy against the cancer. You don't want to neutralize

Speaker 9  2:59:39
that. That's true. No, you don't want to give any glutathione around that. No, yeah.

Speaker 6  2:59:43
But after the recovery, after the kid, the chemotherapy session, you can go ahead and and do some of those things, but as long as you're adding NAG and NAC and glycine to recycle the glutamate, because glutamate toxicity, it feeds the cancer, because you're putting the patient in the keto diet, even after the cancer the chemotherapy sessions. So that's, that's that's okay, but during the cancer treatment, ozone is okay.

Speaker 9  3:00:12
In our patient, in point with the breast cancer, she did not want any chemo, and she had liver metastasis. She had abdominal and and, and in her colon and, and we we just did with all our natural regenerative therapies and and she was in damages for five years. So, so there is a and we treated over the exosomes, NAD and glutathione, and, of course, vitamin C and other things. But that, that is the power of natural therapies that you, cannot say that you have to give chemo, even in low dose or this way or that way. If patient does not want you cannot force it, and you can treat there are better ways of treating them.

Speaker 6  3:01:01
Yes, physician patient autonomy is the priority, but the physician autonomy it can, you can help in changing the mindset of the patient by giving the right education. Maybe that changing, but at the end of the day, physician patient autonomy, especially if it's not destructive, it needs to be prioritized above the physician autonomy.

Unknown Speaker  3:01:30
Are we good?

Speaker 9  3:01:32
Yes, I had one question about, what agents have you found that increases the P 53 activity?

Speaker 6  3:01:45
I think we mentioned something in the slide about activating the P 53 but is it the polyphenols? Yeah, it was at the end of the day. Let's see if we go back to the slides here,

Speaker 9  3:02:05
the apoptosis, right? Yeah, I saw that. Yeah, something that

Speaker 6  3:02:09
helps PFT three. It's the it's the Newland. Newland three restore the function of P 53 but, yeah, I don't know Newland three have? Do we have?

Speaker 9  3:02:27
Yeah, you know, I forgot his name, but he the doctor in Portugal. He suggested to use the rice plan, and the product name is BRM four. And he said that when you give about six to eight pills a day, it increases the P 53 activity, and I've been using that in my practice, along with the

Speaker 6  3:02:56
some other products we can I can come up with list of supplements. And even now, you will do that too. All the supplements and drugs that activate the P 53 and artificial intelligence will do would help you just ask the artificial intelligence list all the peptides and drugs and the supplement that that restore the function of P 53 that's okay to use in the United States, whether it's FDA approved or considered as grass, which is the things that I put it here, listed here. You know, those are the FD. Those are tools that we use in this lecture, but we can do more. And those either grass consider as grass or is considered as FDA approved. And you can come up with lists so that not you know, discovery, it's and science and advancement is not about answering the question. It's about what you ask, and it's about questions more than answering

Bill Clearfield  3:04:00
Doctor. Hello, how about looking at the supplements, medications, whatever, in the realm of mTOR versus autophagy. So,

Speaker 6  3:04:09
yes. So again, I cannot cover everything out of my scene and all the things that that activate AMPK, AMPK and mTOR, it can be integrated

Bill Clearfield  3:04:20
all the, all the supplements you have on the screen right now. You can't, you can't you. Can you look at those in the same light.

Speaker 6  3:04:30
Yeah, those, those like cookies 10. I mean, then all the polyphenols, they are inhibitors of mTOR and activate the MPK. But this is limited. I mean, you can do even more using your AI and come up with all the list of mTOR inhibitors, peptides and chemo and drugs, along with supplements, and you can use it now. The question is, the AI will also help you to know about the budget of the patients, that you make sure that because it's too expensive, so you need to be more economically understand the budget the patients and how you can match it and prioritize what you're going to give to the patient. And that's the skill. That's where the the clinical skills comes in and make it more practical for and more reasonable, feasible for the patient, and efficacy there. And using artificial intelligence will definitely help you a lot to narrow down what you can do, like you can ask the AI, I need the SAP on the peptides to do all of these things, but it will not cost more than $2,000 or $1,000 per month. We have artificial intelligence, which now it's going to help us to narrow all of that. But what's important is now we have the tools, but I believe, Dr naryu and all that they will add more, including yourself, and then we can come up with even a lecture that's way ahead of this one. Well, that's what I'm expecting here. Dr Patel, too. If you squeeze her. She can come up with a nice lecture too. She does have very good clinical experience and history and legacy and and so. Dr Patel, when you gonna come back and humble with us and present?

Unknown Speaker  3:06:21
I mean, six more months,

Bill Clearfield  3:06:28
I got August 19 available, Dr Patel,

Unknown Speaker  3:06:30
I got the spot. Now

Speaker 9  3:06:33
it's just too much, too many things on my plate, but I always make sure that either i i am on one of these three days, uh, listening to lecture. I cannot be there every

Speaker 6  3:06:43
day. But we want to get we want to give and take, continue

Unknown Speaker  3:06:47
to learn something.

Speaker 6  3:06:48
No, no, we want to give and take. That's not, that's not what we want. We want to learn too from you. Yeah, you want to learn from everybody here.

Speaker 9  3:06:56
Series. I will have a series. So okay, because I think that we are lacking few things, but we, I think you're doing very well. Job, very good. Job,

Speaker 6  3:07:11
yeah, but we need everybody here to be contributing. We have 26 doctors here, and we want to hear your your voices, so we will not be getting bored from my voice and Dr Williams and now you and Tano, we want to hear new blood in this group.

Unknown Speaker  3:07:28
I have very interesting

Bill Clearfield  3:07:30
next week. We got Dr Quinn's blood

Unknown Speaker  3:07:35
with the shirt, without shirt.

Unknown Speaker  3:07:37
No, I'll wear a shirt

Unknown Speaker  3:07:40
when you present. Man,

Unknown Speaker  3:07:42
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  3:07:44
muscle centric health with Dr Quinn next

Speaker 6  3:07:46
week. Well, CBD is, it's also a big thing. I didn't maybe I did. I miss it again. There's lots of things that I may not covered here, and Dr Quinn will pick it up and fit it into one of those tricks of cancer. But now at least we know what we need to look for. We need to look the tricks of cancers, the weakness of the of the current treatments and how we can fill the gaps. And I think Dr naryu will come up with a lecture. And Dr Williams, all of you, I think you will be having better answer than I have. And I need the recording of this. I forgot to record it, did I I'll

Bill Clearfield  3:08:25
get it to you when it's when it's ready. So, Dr Quinn, you have any, any, anything you want to say about your the the conference in two weeks?

Speaker 8  3:08:34
Yeah, the conference is, is looking pretty good. I think Dr Burgess has kind of finalized the agenda and all that kind of stuff. We've switched a little bit, based on all of our, our information, our discussions, back and forth. We've we switched a little bit of the focus to maybe more of an environmental, I hate to say environment, Environmental Medicine, toxicity, type of conference. It's not that, it's so many other things, but that fits in with the the overall theme of the truth in what's happening, in the truth in the way that people here are practicing and understanding things, not just sitting back and being told what to do, and not looking at all of the facts. And it just seemed as though it kind of morphed into something that we're going to have a little more emphasis on. And I think that a lot of that's going to fall on Dr Tano, which is always good, right? And then, then we also,

Bill Clearfield  3:09:35
I can't stress, the smart one in the group, so Sheesh,

Speaker 8  3:09:39
he, he's, he's scary smart, kind of like you and you and Mario and halasa. But another big thing is, of course, the the the First Nations Medical Board, the indigenous tribes, and where that's moving, and how rapidly that seems to be expanding, and how people are really after the information. And Dr Benz, of any as you know, is a tribal judge as well as an ND. His plate is extremely full, but he's moving everything forward. And I would really like to somehow, maybe after the conference, see if, if you know, suggest that maybe you get him on to talk a little bit about that we're in a lot of these treatments. Dr halasa was, was pointing out all the time, mainstream medicine does this? We do that then, then suddenly they're going to take down this information, which is nothing but helpful to people. And part of what the tribes are doing, and the First Nations medical board is doing, is maybe providing a little protection if those of those people out there need it. We can give examples of clinics who've done this, but not, not now. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  3:10:54
okay. And of course, the Nevada homeopathic board has a similar role, also

Speaker 8  3:11:00
big time area, Big time, big time. And Dr Nerio, I haven't heard from them, so they're probably going to reject me. No, they work that fast, you know, government, so I'm following up on the application. So okay, and I know Dr Ben is also talking about with it the naturopaths as well, to do some sort of combined thing,

Speaker 6  3:11:24
right, basically, right now the naturopaths, they don't have a board here in Nevada, so we're trying to absorb them so they can slowly get into the the system again. Hopefully that works really smoothly. That's something in the legislator now as we speak, that, but definitely, we're going to keep you abreast about that once, but hopefully it's, it's a good thing so we can again join forces to become a bigger group.

Unknown Speaker  3:11:50
Yes, yeah, I think the public is ready for it,

Bill Clearfield  3:11:53
and hot off the press, I talked to Dr Fong this afternoon, and he's proposing another conference at the end of October, the weekend of October 24 to involve us with Noma and to make a part of the Nevada homeopathic board annual conference. So that's just it

Speaker 1  3:12:19
would be in Reno did a merger. It's a merger. Yeah, it's a

Bill Clearfield  3:12:24
merger. So, so I'll, I'll be able to sneak back into the AOA meetings again under the cover

Unknown Speaker  3:12:32
of darkness.

Unknown Speaker  3:12:35
You got a bigger group now?

Bill Clearfield  3:12:37
Yeah, so, okay,

Speaker 6  3:12:40
just remember the CME, right? You have a CME link.

Bill Clearfield  3:12:43
I got it. I got it here. I'm not going to put it on on YouTube, because I guess you know, it'll get kicked off. So we'll put it on our aosrd.org,

Speaker 6  3:12:51
no, they're not gonna kick it. Kick it off. They they did not kick off my YouTube,

Unknown Speaker  3:12:56
uh, yeah, lost somebody put something in the

Speaker 2  3:12:58
chat that showed us, yeah, they removed it. They removed it. Try your link again.

Bill Clearfield  3:13:06
Oh, they removed it. Yeah, yeah. So somebody mentioned rumble. I do have a rumble account that I don't think I've ever used, but I could put it there, but it'll be on the AOS rd, and I'll put it in the weekly email thing, you know, link, so you'll be able to get it, get it there for the CME credits, yes, yeah, okay, you're in, you're in, you're in YouTube

Speaker 6  3:13:38
purgatory. All right, so they're saying, I'm stupid. That's fine.

Bill Clearfield  3:13:42
The next, if next go, go on quack watch and see if your name's there.

Unknown Speaker  3:13:50
Haven't lived until

Bill Clearfield  3:13:52
you've been quack on quack watch

Unknown Speaker  3:13:59
in your choice. So yeah,

Speaker 6  3:14:07
that's okay. We can put it in rumble, right? We can smart. We

Bill Clearfield  3:14:11
can, yeah, I have a rumble account. I know I have a wrong I don't ever look at it. Can

Unknown Speaker  3:14:17
you put it in rumble and give it to

Unknown Speaker  3:14:18
me and put this sign

Bill Clearfield  3:14:20
up for one so I'll see what. I'll see if I can figure out how to get

Unknown Speaker  3:14:24
into it, I'll let you know. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  3:14:27
all right. If anybody else has a rumble account, I'll send you the video.

Speaker 6  3:14:32
You can upload. I have the rumble account. Just send it to me. I'll put

Bill Clearfield  3:14:35
it on I'll send it to you. When it's I told you I'd send it to you. Okay, easy. It's okay. It's all good. It's all good. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  3:14:42
I thought, I thought they were not blocked me, but they did.

Bill Clearfield  3:14:47
Yeah, yeah. Well, you know, you, you don't join the ranks of the of the of the of this, of the band, so be proud of it. As we, as all of us, have been banned. Are

Unknown Speaker  3:15:03
okay, okay, that's all

Bill Clearfield  3:15:06
right, everybody. Thank you all. Next week. Dr, dr Quinn is going to give us muscle centric health. And

Speaker 8  3:15:14
I'm excited about this one. I'm really excited about this one. I put a lot of work. There's some really great, great things coming, just and a little bit of guilt, okay,

Unknown Speaker  3:15:25
yeah, all

Bill Clearfield  3:15:28
right, everybody, thank you so much. Dr Nario, thank you as always. Please everybody, take care and thank your your guests. Dr halasa For for being on, maybe we can get her to do a whole two hours or her company, okay, all right, well, be in touch. Okay, thank you all. Thank you time, same station. Okay. Good night. Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai