Bill Clearfield  06:22
So totally something, isn't it? Stefan,

Unknown Speaker  06:26
hey. Dr Clearfield,

Unknown Speaker  06:27
that's quite a good look.

Speaker 1  06:29
I've never been on, I've never been on a webinar where somebody is getting red light therapy. This is a first Dr Clearfield, you? You? This is something I can talk about for the rest of my life.

Bill Clearfield  06:43
And he's one of the normal ones.

Unknown Speaker  06:48
Great, my kind of people, I feel right at home already.

Bill Clearfield  06:50
You know, this is your first time one with us. We wanted to keep the really radical ones away from you. No,

Speaker 1  06:57
please bring them in. Man. I like a, I like a three ring circus. So, well, that's my favorite. You

Bill Clearfield  07:03
have to do is take a look. Take a look to your I don't know where it is on your screen. It's it's right below me. It's to your to the right of you. Yeah,

Speaker 2  07:12
that's great. I love it. Yeah, absolutely love it.

Bill Clearfield  07:17
So we usually have more on by now, but I don't know if it's Halloween or whatever, so no worries. Normally, we get anywhere from 40 to 70.

Unknown Speaker  07:29
Okay, are

Bill Clearfield  07:30
you so

Speaker 1  07:32
look, I, you know, working with doctors for the last 10 years, I understand that time is, is, is a radical continuum to them. They're not necessarily always on time, so that's okay. They come

Bill Clearfield  07:43
and go, yeah, they filter in, and we've had somebody show up and out, you know, an hour, you know, after the start. So yeah, great. But we have a, we have a pretty good core crew, and sometimes the speaker their own. Bring their own, Joe I'm going to make you a co host. Sounds good. Joel, down here. Hey. Joel,

Unknown Speaker  08:14
nice.

Bill Clearfield  08:16
One of my other right hand persons here. Amen, right great. And how's that? How's that red light therapy going? Stefan,

Speaker 3  08:28
it's great. I've been using it to help regenerate some hair. It's working. Yeah,

Speaker 1  08:33
there's a I've got one of those red light caps. It's been fantastic. So, yeah,

Speaker 3  08:40
but the other thing I do is I is I put a little traction my neck, as you can see here.

Unknown Speaker  08:45
Oh, nice, yeah,

Speaker 3  08:50
yeah. It's great for my neck. My neck is reversed from normal, so I have a really flat neck, and I got a chronic pain for years, until I start doing some traction and chiropractic. It's great.

Unknown Speaker  09:01
Great. Love it. Absolutely love it.

Bill Clearfield  09:04
I think that's from tennis.

Speaker 3  09:07
Now, the the pain is from judo. I did judo for eight years.

Bill Clearfield  09:14
So Stefan was a professional 10 tennis player for a long time, or still is, I don't know, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  09:20
I still compete in tests. No longer do that.

Unknown Speaker  09:25
Well, I'm, I'm

Speaker 1  09:26
a recovering golf professional. So you, you know, that puts a little bit of wear and tear in the lower back over the years.

Speaker 3  09:34
Let me show you the elbow. Let me show you the other toy we got here. We got the morosco Pro. We just installed it today. This is the upgrade from the original unit. We had the the cryo barony pool. That's the cryotherapy. Yeah, it's really cold. He's going to test it out. This is the the first day we've had the new unit. Nice round. Two months. Go for it, buddy. It maintains about 34 to 35 degrees Fahrenheit.

Speaker 2  10:07
Wow, yeah, yeah, this new year has

Bill Clearfield  10:12
a lot of he has a lot of toys.

Speaker 3  10:15
Italy has strong jets. So it certainly is the water a lot more quickly. We should, we should keep the person colder, because previously, the water didn't move much. They keep it perfectly still. You could develop a thermal layer. And so people were sitting there for like, 11 minutes. Now, I think we fixed problem with people sitting in there too long. We should, like, be in and out within like two minutes.

Bill Clearfield  10:38
Let's see how long he lasts. It's supposed to be only like two to four minutes, right? Yeah, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  10:42
four minutes. Now

Bill Clearfield  10:46
the infrared light is, is covers the whole the whole room.

Speaker 3  10:51
No, it's really just for me, for when I'm doing my hair. This is the other gizmo we have. We have the E bot that exercise with oxygen therapy. Get on the bike and train. I

Bill Clearfield  11:08
think, I think we need to organize a field trip down to your place. Stefan for oh my gosh, maybe, maybe in February or March, when it's freezing cold here. Road road trip.

Speaker 3  11:21
You actually come by make sure you also I got here. I got the outdoor gym area. Hey, got my traditional Salma. Wow. Are you done with the red light? Uh, yeah, you can use it. And then I got the outdoor gym set up here. Got a whole contraption. Here we got a bunch of dumbbells.

Speaker 2  11:44
This is amazing. Yeah, Stefan, where are you located?

Speaker 3  11:48
We're in India, Atlantic, Florida, okay, and then the medical offices are in there. This is my playground. Good. Florida is he in the Atlantic, near what major city? And I'd say Orlando is the closest, but 90 miles away, right in Orlando, north, south, east or west of you, we would be east of Orlando,

Unknown Speaker  12:22
so you're more towards the east coast, yeah, we're on

Speaker 3  12:24
the East Coast, actually, right on, right on the beach here, like West Palm Beach, Daytona. No, the closest landmark you'd know of is where the rockets are launched by Elon Musk. It's only about 40 minutes up the coast from us here.

Unknown Speaker  12:38
So you're my Cocoa Beach, then,

Speaker 3  12:41
yeah, Cocoa Beach, Merritt Island, yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  12:44
I know exactly where you are. I used to play down there.

Unknown Speaker  12:48
Play, play, what? Tennis?

Speaker 4  12:50
No, I used to play with NASA. I used to do when I was a kid in high school, doing meteorology. I got a chance to visit the Cape Canaveral.

Speaker 3  12:59
Oh, wow, that's great. Yeah, I My goal

Speaker 4  13:02
was to retire and be on the Banana River. So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  13:06
that'll be a beautiful, beautiful,

Unknown Speaker  13:10
fantastic. Alright? So,

Bill Clearfield  13:14
alright, Matthew, you're, you're Mr. Bill OG is you ready to, ready to rock and roll here.

Unknown Speaker  13:21
I'm born ready, man,

Bill Clearfield  13:22
we gotta tour the playground.

Speaker 1  13:25
I'm digging the playground. I gotta make a road trip down to Florida. Love all those toys. You know, for a non doctor, I dig the toys. I always joke if I can, if it comes to Anti Aging and Longevity or regen, if I can inject it, if I can rub it on my body, if I can swallow it, or I can insert it, I will take it. You know, I love to try all this stuff and test all this stuff. So been in it for about 10 years, and I just just fascinated by it. Yeah. So, yeah, that's great stuff.

Unknown Speaker  13:58
So everybody

Bill Clearfield  13:59
tonight, our speaker is Matthew gallogy, and he's going to teach us how to not have to deal with insurance, which I don't know how many of us are still dealing with it, you know, at least on a regular basis. But he's going to give us some ideas about how to break out. And if that doesn't work, we can always call Stefan and find out the toy supplier.

Speaker 1  14:25
If that doesn't work, we're just gonna go sit and step on ice bath for six minutes see if we can handle it. Yeah, and I thanks for having me. Dr Clearfield, thank you. Yeah, you bet. And this isn't just about you know, for the I know probably a lot of you are done with insurance, but, and I'll dive into this tonight in pretty significant detail. I'll tell you about my background and all of that, but it's also about really getting paid what you're worth. You know, I've been working with doctors for a better part of 10 years. I've owned medical practices. I still own interest in medical practices today. So you know everything that I'm going to share with you tonight, we used to grow our practices, and we use it to help our doctors, whether they're in regenerative longevity, anti aging, functional medicine, grow their practices, and I'll share a number of stories with you where people have gone from 100,000 a month to 200,000 a month, or 100,000 a month to 400,000 1000 a month to $400,000 a month. So you know, again, if you're done with insurance, good for you. But you know, the challenge that I see is that doctors get as much business training in medical school as I got medical training in business school, which was zero, by the way. And what I'm really passionate about here at Mavericks, I'll tell you a little bit about our company as we go along, but this is really about you. But what we're passionate about here is we're our goal is to free 100,000 doctors worldwide by the end of 2033 we see that there is very little that you are taught with regards to business, and I'm going to share a couple of very basic concepts with you that you can take and implement and put into your business and start to see some pretty positive, significant improvements. So and feel free to ask questions as we go along. You can put them in the chat, or if you you know, as like I said, if you want some clarity on something. Dr Clearfield, how long do you want me to go? How what? How long do these things usually go

Bill Clearfield  16:22
an hour, hour and a half. Okay, you know how much material you have and the questions, and you know you're behind a screen, so we can't throw tomatoes at you without getting messing ourselves up. So, so go for it.

Speaker 1  16:37
Sorry. Look, remember, you know, I'll just let everybody know I'm the youngest kid of a large Irish Catholic family from Chicago, so I have very thick skin, so you're not gonna, you're not gonna offend me at all. So let's, let's

Bill Clearfield  16:48
dive in. We're mostly harmless here.

Speaker 1  16:51
That's good. I find that most doctors are pretty harmless. Most groups are pretty harmless. Let me share my screen, and can you all see my screen? All right, yes, okay, great. Okay, so like I said, this is really about unlocking the power of your cash based services in your practice, and finally, get paid what you're worth now, even if you are out of insurance, even the doctors that we talk to and we work with doctors US Canada, we have doctors worldwide that we work with as well, and the same issue, it's the same issue everywhere, and that is, doctors are really on the verge of burnout. And when I'm saying, doctors, please understand, I know there's some pas and NPS, I'm just going to lump all of that together. So I don't have to say Dr, PA, nurse practitioner, all of that, naturopath. I'm just going to, you know, just really talk about the medical community in general, but the goal is, I want to share some insights with you that has helped our clients ditch burnout. Many reduce their patient loads significantly. They take more time off, and they're making significantly more money. I think one of the great lies that has been told to people is that if you work long, hard hours, you will make money. That just isn't true, and I want to show you how you can get amazing, phenomenal patient outcomes and have control of your over your life. So for some of you, what I'm about ready to share with you over the next hour, you will remember this day, because this day will be the day that your business, your life, changes in a very, very positive way. I've given this presentation probably now close to 50 or 60 times. I speak at events all over the US. I'm out just about every single weekend, we teach this on webinars constantly So, and that's the thing that we hear a lot, is that a lot of people will tell us that was the day that the light bulb went on that they realized they were able to see the mistakes that they were making, because nobody had ever told them about how to really run a business. Most of you, what I find in my 10 plus years of experience have been figuring this out on your own. And you know, just as many hours as you have of learning your craft in medicine, I have just as many hours and just as much invested in learning the craft of business. So in the next 45 minutes to an hour, here's what you are going to discover. The first thing is, is how to get the perfect patient into your practice, and we'll leave some talk about how to do it without using Facebook ads. A lot of doctors that I talk with practice owners, they say, you know, I've tried Facebook ads, we really don't get that great of a lead. The patients aren't really all that qualified. And the reality is is most of my clients don't even run advertising. They not in traditional sense, not traditional paid advertising. I'm going to share with you the three part process to pre screen, pre educate and predispose your patient to doing business with you so that they're not out price shopping. The next thing that you'll you'll learn is how to convert your prospects into patients who pay premium prices in my travels and in my work, and I've worked with literally hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of of doctors and practice owners worldwide, most of them, about 95 to 97% of them believe that their patients will not pay premium prices. I will show you that by the end of tonight, how to do, how to get your patients to pay more and happily pay more and become more compliant. The fourth thing is how to take two weeks off every six weeks and make money while you're away. And all of these are going to be supported with case studies, real life case studies of clients that I work with, or things that we've done in our clinics as well. So this presentation is for you. If you are burned out and you've thought about quitting medicine, or you've tried to add in different types of cash services in the past, but maybe some of it didn't work. You know, a lot of doctors have machines that they've paid for that they thought that their patients would love, and they sit there and they just collect dust. If you think your patients won't pay for pay for premium services and premium prices. I'll show you how to break that down. If you've ever hired an agency to generate leads, spent a ton of money and didn't make any sales. If you want to treat patients as you see fit, and by the way, and get the patients to agree to let you to treat them as you see fit, if you are working long hours with very little money to show for it, this is for you. Or if you just plain ass playing out exhausted, this is for you. So, you know, I don't. And look, if you want to put in the chat, this is, you know, when I do this live, I ask people to show me how many of you relate with any of these. If you want to go ahead and put this into the chat, saying, Yep, I relate to one or two of those, or more of those, that would be great. That helps me kind of just keep this on track for you all. So I want to start with the story of two doctors. And the story of two doctors is the story of two doctors that went to the same undergrad, same med school, same residency, and they came out and they both opened up their own practice, and when they came back to their medical class reunion, 15 years later, there were two these two doctors, one of them was burnt out, working for the large hospital group, you know, having to deal with all the red tape And the paperwork of dealing with insurance, and the other doctor was completely out of insurance, was working three to four days a week, done every single day, at two or three o'clock in the afternoon, and taking extensive vacations. And what the difference is in this whole story that I'm telling you is that the difference between these two doctors is very simple. Doctor one is fictional. They're not a real doctor that, at least I don't I mean, they are a real doctor in the industry, but they're not a real doctor from the context of this story. It's really just kind of a composite of what you see. But the reality is is doctor number two is real, and his name is Dr ash Goyle. He is real, and he has a system for running his practice that doesn't rely on insurance. He is a pain management, interventional pain management doctor who has transitioned his dot his practice to a cash based practice that does nothing but regenerative spine. And he charges anywhere between 90 $519,000 a case, and he's booked out 60 days in advance. He has a waiting list for people to do business with him. And the funny thing is, about Dr Goyle is that when I met him about 18 months ago, he didn't believe that any of his patients would pay cash, let alone pay premium prices, because he had offered stuff at higher prices, and they said no. And so when we put him into the system, which I will dive into here extensively, when we did that in December of last year, he was primarily insurance, and he was doing about $10,000 a month in cash. In February of this year, following our system, he collected $84,363.59 in March, he collected 80,004 23 in April, he collected 90,000 today, he's doing over 125 to $135,000

Speaker 1  24:18
a month in cash services. He has gotten rid of over 50% of his insurance providers, and like I said, he has a waiting list of 60 days for to do procedures. That means that the patients that want to do the procedure him to do the procedures are paying him in full up to 60 days in advance before they can even get the procedure done. Many of you, lot of doctors that I talk with, practice owners, pas nurse practitioners, they're collecting that money. The day of he's collecting the money. And so are my clients. They'll collect it at the time that the patient says yes, which gives them what is known as velocity in their cash. The problem with the old system in medicine is that you didn't get to control your pricing, and you didn't get control to when you pay. Now, for many doctors, when they're in the cash base, they're afraid to charge premium prices because they don't want to be feared as greedy. They don't want people to think that they're all about the money, and they generally wind up making deals that they don't have to make or give discounts that they don't have to give, and they wonder week to week whether or not they're going to have enough business to be able to make payroll. And what I'm going to share with you tonight is how to have complete and total control over your business, your finances, your personal life, and the care that you deliver. So let me tell you a little bit about me, what makes me qualified to talk about these things? My name is Matthew Gallogly. For the record, I am not a doctor. I used to get queasy when I would walk by a Walgreens today, I love being in procedures or surgeries. I'm very blessed to work with some amazing doctors worldwide, but I am the founder and CEO of what's known as the Carolina Men's Clinic. This is how I got started in the cash based medical arena. In January of 2014 I opened the Carolina Men's Clinic, which focused on fixing erectile dysfunction and within with by April of that year, of when we opened, we were doing $200,000 a month. In November of 2014 we opened our second location in June of 2015 we opened our third location. Within two years, we were doing $6.5 million a year in cash. We were dropping 20% to the bottom line, and we focused on erectile dysfunction. We used try mix injections at the base of the penis to give guys an erection. In office, we eventually added in testosterone treatment, HRT, and we were doing somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 to 100 PRP injections in the penis per month. We, at that time, were doing more what that time what was known as P shots. We were doing more P shots than I think the rest of the country combined, at least, that's what the vendors and the reps told us, because of the system that we were using. So yes, I know quite a bit about PRP, still, we use it in all of our clinics. Today, I sold my interest in those in 2017 and since 2018 I've been helping doctors scale their practices. I have a podcast called the practice Profit System. And I work with doctors all over the world. I have doctors that are in regenerative I have or biologics, if you want to call it biologics, I work with about 50% of my clients are in what I call the longevity, functional medicine space, and you'll hear from those today. I still own interest in clinics and regen, men's sexual health, high performance, health and weight loss. So everything that I'm going to be sharing with you has been tested and works in our clinics first, before we share with our clients or prospects. So this is not theory. I'm not just some guy coming in from outside going, this is how you got to do it. I'm in the trenches just like you are. Okay. And I'm the author of two books, the anatomy of a seven figure medical practice and practice and how to recession proof your medical practice, which you'll get an opportunity to get the first book, The anatomy book, for free here at the end of the presentation. And that's my podcast. You might want to check that out so you can we have over 110 episodes on on the podcast channels. So and then we're going to dive into this, our clients, the information I'm ready to share with you, our clients add an average of $50,000 in new cash revenues within 60 days. It doesn't matter if they're in insurance practice with no cash services, or they've been doing cash services and they're doing 100 grand a month or more, we can what I'm going to share with you is, I'll show you how to add $50,000 in new cash revenues in 60 days, without generating any more new leads, our clients average 100 and additional 100 plus $1,000 a month in cash revenues by month six and within 12 months, if they have insurance, they've generally left most insurance behind, and they're averaging $150,000 per month. So this is the story and I'm going to show you, I'm going to show you case studies from our biologics clients, our functional medicine longevity clients, so you're going to get to see kind of a broad spectrum of this. But the first case study that I want to give you is with Dr Ariana Demir. She is an orthopedic surgeon in sports medicine. What's really important for you to understand is she is in Sonora California. And if anybody knows where Sonora California is, good for you, but Sonora California is, is, is located on the other side of the Sierra Nevadas. It's closer to the Nevada border than it is anything else. Her town, her client base, is 80% Medicare. They are 60 plus, obviously. And she lives in a town that the major employer is either the hospital or the Forestry Service. She lives in a town of less than 10,000 people. And the reason why I start here is a lot of people like, Oh, I'm sure all this stuff works. If you're in New York or you're in LA, I'm going to share with you a number of stories where clients are in very rural markets, remote markets that are doing 250 to $300,000 a month. Okay, so she was burnt out. She had had her baby. She is a highly trained orthopedic surgeon, Oklahoma, state undergrad, Michigan State residency, fellowed in Taos with Dr Goodman. So she's a highly, highly trained orthopedic surgeon, and one day, she just walked out, she went to lunch, and she never came back, and she said, I'm burnt out. I'm either going to she goes, I'm going to go to the beach and sell flip flops, but I'm not doing this anymore. And so what she did is, on the side, she created a part time biologics clinic. And without knowing what to do, she had, she rented, she sublet some office space, I believe, from like a med spa or a chiropractic office. I can't either one, but basically, you get the point. And she was doing this on Fridays and Saturdays, half days on Saturdays, full days on Fridays. Today, she has a vibrant, all cash practice that she sees patients about eight days a month, and she'll do over $120,000 per month. She spends the rest of her time traveling around the country, teaching and training doctors how to do biologics. If you've been to any of the events at ILF or Aom or orthos sono, you've probably met Dr demirz. She is pretty prolific in in her training and education. So she built a thriving cash practice, and in just over 12 months in working with me, she went from $20,000 a month in cash procedures to here are her numbers at the end of q4, in 2023, and you'll see what these numbers are. Is that her goal in October was 80. She did 68 in November, 80 she did 73 in December, it was 80k and she did 111,000 her goal for the quarter was 240,000 she did $254,000 now here's what's fascinating about this. She reduced her days in surgery from two days a week to two days a month. She at this time, she was only working in her practice 14 days a month. Today, she works eight days a month, and the best part, her patient base is 80% Medicare and Medicaid. So how did she do this? Well, I'll tell you about that in just a second, but I want to give you one more case study, as I assume that many of you are in the functional medicine space. Did she did she do

Speaker 3  32:16
a course? Did she create a course? Is that how she made the money? No,

Speaker 1  32:20
she, she does teach. No, this is all patient care. All of those revenue numbers that I'm going to show you all today is what they're doing in their pay, in their practice, in with just seeing patients. Okay? So none of it came, none of those numbers came from course, creation, um, the next is Dr Tracy gap. And I wanted to share Tracy because he's in the functional medicine longevity space. He has the gap in Institute of high performance health. It's in Sarasota. And the system that I'm going to share with you today, he said, without the system, he doesn't double revenues and profits every single year. And here is his numbers when we started working with Dr gappin Two years ago, he was averaging $150,000 a month. He was seeing patients four and a half days a week, plus running a business on going out and speaking, traveling, going to events, and speaking at events and things like that. Today, he doesn't see patients at all. He hasn't seen patients in over 12 months. He has a team that sees them for him, and he does over $410,000 last month alone. His average is about $385,000 per month in cash. And he does not meet with any patients. All of that is handled by his pas on staff and his nurse practitioner. And he's just there running his business, and the last one is Trev Bucha area. He has the stay young Center for Women. They do weight loss and hormone replacement therapy in Buffalo, New York. Trevor is not a doctor. When I started working with him, he didn't even have a location. He just had this idea. Today the stay young Center for Women. He was doing multiple offers and procedures. Today, they do one thing, and that is, they help women lose pounds in inches around their waist. He has two locations, one in Buffalo, New York, the other in Denver, Colorado. Trevor never goes into the practice at all, and he has a combined average of $325,000 a month between the two practices. So what is this system? Okay, so the thing you have to understand is this isn't about me or the doctors that I'm helping. This is about you, and this is about you, your hopes, your dreams, your desires, your financial future. And how do they do this? Well, they do it by using what's called the stairway system. This is the same system that I used and designed to grow our practices in 2018 I started making that system available to doctors across the country, in across the US and Canada, and it's designed to make you more money in less time, I'm sorry, less time in the office and less stress. So this is the stairway system. This is what we're going to go through today on our call, there are five segments of the stairway system. We'll go through the first three. We'll talk about the beachhead, educate and excite and convert, if time allows. I can go into more on the high end offers and monthly recurring revenue. If there's questions on that, I'm happy to do that. We'll cover a little bit about high end offers as well, because it's a real big core of what we teach. So here we go. There are three keys to a successful in cash, profitable cash practice, the kind of cash practice that gives you the ability to ditch insurance if you need, if you still need to do that, make more money and take more time off. And by the way, it's important for me to say this, everything that I'm going to share with you tonight, this isn't about just making money. This is about first and foremost, above everything else. This is about getting amazing patient outcomes, okay? And by having more time to spend with the patients, or more time to learn and grow and things of that nature and understand how to put things together, so you can get the best possible outcome for the patient. That is the that is the number one overreaching goal. Okay, so I want to reiterate this. This isn't just about making a bunch of money. This is about getting great patient outcomes. I believe that that now more than ever in our industry, it is critical that doctors understand this, for doctors that are still in the insurance space every day, it's getting worse. Reimbursements are going down. Delay of payments are going down. I just had a client have a $2.5 million clawback, and the insurance company said, if you don't pay, we're going to bankrupt you. We're going to take your house, we are going to take your practice. We will take everything that you own,

Speaker 1  36:45
and through some negotiation, he was able to get that down to $750,000 but the best part is he had the cash to wire them the money the same day by using this system. Okay, so what is it? There are three keys. The first key that we're going to dive into is how to be the expert in one thing and why it's so important. Many doctors try to do too many things. They try to say, yep, we can do that, yes, we can do that. Oh, I've got that. I'll share with you why that's a bad approach and that's actually hindering your ability to grow. I'm going to talk to you about how to educate and excite your patients before they walk in the door, so that they're pre screened, pre qualified and predisposed to doing business with you. And then the final thing we're going to talk about converting patients into premium prices using what we call signature solutions. And we'll dive into that. So let's start at the bottom. Let's start at the stairway system. Let's start at the bottom. The first concept that I want to share with you is the concept of the beachhead. Now the beachhead is a military term. It's really if you think about in the context of, say, the D Day invasions of Normandy, what they did did was they focused all their energy supplies, everything in a very small area, to gain a toe hold in European the European continent, so that they could go on and defeat the Nazis. Well, the business concept to that is exactly the same is that you want to be known in your market for one thing, okay, you want to be known for one message to one market with one offer. Now let me clarify what the offer is. The offer is what you get them to come into the office. It's not the offer that you sell, okay, it's the offer that gets them to come into the office. So let me walk you through this. So let's talk about the keys to being an expert in one thing, the big problem that I see and I work with doctors, I look at their businesses intimately. I see everything in their businesses. When I work with them, I see cash flow statements, I see profit and loss statements, I see balance sheets. I see their marketing. We see it all okay. And the big problem is doctors have too many offers, too many procedures and too many tools. Now that doesn't mean you can't have a lot of tools, but they offer one week they're saying, oh, let's, let's go for weight loss, and then next week, oh, let's push red light therapy. And the next week, oh, we've got this brain thing, let's that's going to help people with Alzheimer's. Let's go to that. And you go to an event and somebody's got this new fangled thing, or a machine, or a new procedure, or some kind of special way to do an IV, and you go, Oh, that's the thing, that's the thing that's really going to make me money. And the problem is is you have too many things, and the patients can't state. They don't know exactly what you do. Okay? So it's kind of like going to the Mexican restaurant that serves Fettuccine Alfredo. Now there's a real story behind this. My now wife, two years ago, we got married, and we went to Cabo on our honeymoon, and we went into downtown Cabo one day, and we're walking around, and we decide that we're going to stop for for lunch this Mexican restaurant. And we get the Mexican restaurant, and the menu is about this thick, and I'm flipping through this thing. You've all been there, right? They've got all these different things. And I'm flipping through and next to the chicken enchiladas is Fettuccine Alfredo. Now immediately I looked at my wife, I looked at Katie, and I said, let's leave and let's go back to the to the resort and eat there, because any place that tells me that they can do chicken enchiladas as well as doing fettuccine alfredos. That tells me they're not going to Fettuccine Alfredo that tells me they're not going to be able to do either one of them well. But think about this, if you want a steak, where do you go for dinner? You go to a steakhouse. You go to Ruth Chris Steakhouse. You go to Sullivans. You go to you go to a steak house. I was in Las Vegas this weekend, and the guy, one of my friends, was there in town, I said, let's meet for dinner. And I said, Where do you want to go eat? He said, Let's have steak. So we went to Capital Grill to get steaks. We didn't go to a seafood place to get steaks. Okay, if you want seafood, you go to McCormick and schmick. Okay, you don't go to a place that does all of it. And that's the lesson, this lesson that I really want you to understand and internalize. Many of you have too many things that you're trying to tell the patient that you do versus doing one thing being known for one thing. Okay, it's better to be known for one thing. You can do multiple different things, which I'll talk after they buy something or they come in, but you've got to be known in your marketplace. What I want is, I want you to be Ruth Chris Steakhouse. Now, if you've ever been to Ruth Chris Steakhouse, they make an amazing steak. It's my favorite steakhouse of all the steakhouses that I've been to. And I absolutely love Ruth Chris Steakhouse. It's just fantastic. And this is what most of your businesses look like. It's this, oh yeah, we do that. Oh yeah. We got that over there. Oh yeah, you know what? Hey, I went to a class like two years ago about doing EBO, yeah, I can do that. I can fix that. I can fix Lyme disease. I can do long COVID. I can fix that. I know how to do this. And it's kind of like, can you imagine going to the cardiologist and the cardiologist going, Oh, you've got a brain issue. You know what? I went to a class like three years ago, and I got a workbook over here about how to fix your aneurysm, you'd run out of that room as fast as possible. And yet, that's exactly what we do. Is that we say, if I have more things, I'm going to do better, my business is going to grow. And nature, the law of 8020 would tell you that's just not the case. Okay, if you look at what you do, 80% of your revenue is coming from 20% of your things. I guarantee it, because I look at these businesses every single day. What I want you to be is, I want you to be this. I want you to have known for a core offer that gets people to come in now you can still have all your red light therapy and cryo chambers and IVs and and, you know, EBU and all these fun things that you do, and HRT and PRP and all these, you know, boats, whatever it is, you can still do all of those things, but you've got to have a very specific core offer to get them in the door. So what is a core offer? Well, in our clinics, in the ED clinic, we were known for one thing, giving fixing men's erections. And it was very simple. We ran ads that said, come to the clinic one time, meet with a doctor, get a test dose. If you don't see results in 12 minutes, you owe us nothing. That's our guarantee to you. And we would see 50 new patients per week per location, which is 150 new patients a week, and we would convert 30 of those per location into an average transaction value of $2,500 each, because guys were coming in to fix their ED. Now, when they came in, they might get Ed and hormone replacement therapy. There might get Ed medications, hormone therapy, and they might get PRP, and we also had hair restoration using PRP, but everything that we did got them in on that one concept. Today, I still have friends, and I sold my interest in those clinics in 2017 so it's better than seven years ago. I still have quite a few friends in the marketplace that know and think of me. They tell people, Matt, tell them what you do for a living. Like, well, you know, I sold those clinics. Like, no, no. Tell them what you do for a living. I'm like, Well, I go to erectile dysfunction clinics, and we were known far and wide that that's what we did, and that's how we're able to grow so quickly. Okay, this is the story of Dr Nicole Garcia. When I started working with her, she was offering men's sexual health HRT, women's sexual health, women's HRT and cosmetics, and she was struggling to do $50,000 a month. Now, in her case, what I said is, I said, Nikki, what do you prefer treating men or women? She goes, Oh, I can't stand treating women. I prefer treating men. And I said, Great, all we're going to do then is focus on men's sexual health and hormone replacement therapy. That's it. And she became what we affectionately called the ED queen of Southern California. And she wound up owning she focused just on men's sexual health, men's HRT. She went from having one location that she worked half a day to having two or half, I'm sorry, like one or two days a week, to having two locations that saw patients four days a week and was doing over $200,000 a month that was in the span of 12 months. Simply by zeroing in, in this case, on a specific gender. She was able to do that in Treb Bucha Aries case, all he does is focus on women and Trep and Tracy gap and 85 to 90% of his market is men over the age of 55 that want longevity. You'll hear stories from Dr Pierre Tripoli here in a little bit, who does biologics. All he does is focus in on the knee. That's his beach head. He's known as the knee guy, and he does shoulders, he does hips, he doesn't touch back, but he's just known as the knee guy. Dr ash Goyle does backs. That's it. 85% of his business is backs. And he because he does that, and because he's viewed as the expert, he can charge 10x or 15x more than his competition, and nobody balks the price and nobody price shops. Okay, so she is now the medical director of Game Day Health. She has since sold her clinics, and she went on to be the medical director of Game Day Health, all right, so let's assume that you focused on the one thing, the next step that I want you to do is that I want you to focus on educating and exciting your patients before they come to the office. So this is, this is a this is, you know your your patients. There's an old saying of people don't care how much you know until they know how much you care.

Speaker 1  45:55
The problem with most marketing, not just in the medical space, but most marketing in general. And you have to understand the whole purpose of marketing and advertising isn't to get a lead, it's to get a customer who will pay premium prices. That is the whole purpose of advertising. It's not to get a lead, it's to get a customer, okay? And that's very, very different. So marketing can take form in a lot of different ways, but we want that marketing to educate and excite our patients before they come into the office. Now the reality is, is that most of our patients, most of our prospects, they don't know anything about biologics. They don't know anything about anti aging or functional medicine. You'll kind of get some that come in and know about leaky gut or things like that. But the reality is is most don't when they begin their search. They don't know that we exist. Okay, so what do we do? Well, this is where we're going to dive into this. It's educate and excite. And the three components that you need to understand about this are the concepts of know, like and trust. People buy from people that they know, like and trust. The core customer for most cash based practices is 55 plus. If you look at who spends the most amount of money, and we've done we do research on every single clinic that we work with, and we look at their sales, and we look at who buys and who spends the most money. Across the board, your best clients are 55 plus. Now, do you have the occasional 42 year old who comes in and spends a lot of money? Yes, but that's what's called an outlier, okay, and at the age of 55 plus, and I'm 56 I'll be 57 in a couple of weeks, you're buying changes dramatically. So I'm at the stage now where I have two kids off the payroll. They're out of college. They earn their own money. I have one left. I have two step children. One is out of college, making our own money. The other one is a senior. And we're at this stage in our life where we're making the most amount of money, the more money than we've ever made before. We have much more disposable income, and we don't have to pay for college anymore, right? We're not paying for soccer and cheerleading and all of those things. We have much more disposable income. But when we buy things at this stage of our life, we want to buy from people that have done a great job for our friends and family. So for example, we just put an outdoor kitchen in just before the pandemic started. And yeah, we talked to a couple of different people, but we got recommended that we work with one particular group. They were the most expensive, and we hired them because they had the best reputation, and we knew that they were going to do it right and we weren't going to have to act as our general contractor. Most people over the age of 55 your core customers of people that are upper middle class, that have disposable income, and they will spend 4x to 8x more than someone who is 40 years old. Okay, so, but the key to this isn't just targeting them with your marketing, but it's taking them through a process so that by the time they walk in, they feel like they know you, they like you and they trust you. Okay, so how do we do that? Well, first, let's understand what works against us in a lot of cases. So I'm just curious, how many of you have run Facebook ads in the past, okay, and if you've run Facebook ads in the past, how many were thrilled with the results? Well, in my travels, I find that that number is pretty low. Yeah, we get a lot of leads, and, you know, we got to sort through a lot, and they're not really great, but the reality is is most people are not really thrilled. Why is that? Because people buy from businesses and people they know like and trust. When you're generating a lead on Facebook, let me back up a second. Whoops. Let me go back here. When you generate a lead, a lead on Facebook, you were interrupting them, they're not really all that interested. They're just filling out the form to kind of make you go away. And they're moderately curious. They're, they're, it's kind of like, it's kind of like dating, right, you know, like they're just really not that interested. Okay, so you have to remember that the entire purpose of marketing and advertising is to make the sales process superfluous. There should be little to no selling that goes on if you have everything structured correctly. If you put in this system, Facebook ads don't develop a relationship with your prospect, therefore they don't trust you, and therefore they're going to they're not going to be as likely to buy from you, and if they are, they're not necessarily going to pay premium prices. I know this because we do this all day, every day. Okay? Now we're not an agency. We don't run ads for our clients. We coach people on how to grow their businesses. So what do you do? Well, one of the most powerful things that you can do is use content. I want you to think about yourself. I want you to think about when you get ready to do something. What do you do? Well, you go to Google right and you type in, you know how to how to do a proper deadlift, or you know how to how to hit a better have a better short game, or hit a better tennis serve, or how to how to fix a door on my cabinet that has fallen off. Okay, well, what do you think your prospect does when their knee hurts? Let's use the example of a knee hurting. What do you think they do? Why does my knee hurt? And where do people go to get their information? The number two search engine in the world is YouTube. Now think about this. You do the exact same thing. Recently, we just had a door fall off of our one of our cabinet doors fall off. And I'm not very handy, but my wife is, and she went on and she googled and watched a video of how to fix it. Okay, I'm an avid golfer. I watch golf videos about how to improve my short game. I'm a former golf professional, and I go out there and I watch videos on how to prove my short game. Okay, your prospect is doing exactly the same thing. It could be. Why is it that I'm dealing you know what? What is menopause? Why am I gaining weight over the age of 50 as a woman? Why am I tired? Why don't I remember where I left my keys? These are all of the things that your prospect is going online to find a solution for. Now, somebody that's actively looking for a solution is much more likely to want to find is to pay for the answer. Okay, I'm going to say that again, somebody that is going online and Googling how to find a solution to something is more likely to be willing to pay and pay a premium price in order to get that what else does video be enable you to do in content? Well, you can use content with video online. You can use in room videos. We'll talk about that in just a minute. You can use it in follow up, because your prospect is exactly this is how they're consuming their information. Is they are watching YouTube videos. Oh, and you can also use it for testimonials, because testimonials are going to be the things that get people to know, like and trust you when they see the story of another 65 year old person who's lost 40 pounds and now has more energy, and their sex life is back, and they remember where they leave their keys and all of that good stuff, and they're no longer a heart attack risk, and they're off their diabetes medication, they're off their statins and all of that. And you get a great raving testimonial that you can utilize and put on YouTube and things like that. You will get more customers like that, because now they feel like the prospect feels like they you understand their particular situation. So you want to use content in the form of, like I said, in the form of video. You can take video, make it, podcast, all of that stuff. Okay, so this is Dr Joshua Schachter, because here's what most people say or think right at this time, is they think, Matt, I do not want to be an influencer. I don't want to waste my day making videos. I don't want to put videos out there showing people what I eat. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about educating your market. So do you believe that there's people in your market that can get off their diabetes medication if they were to work with you, or they were able to get off their statins and lose 40 or 50 pounds and no longer be a heart attack risk. Or they no longer have to they don't have to have joint replacement surgery, because you're using biologics in the right way to be able to get these positive results for them. Or you can help people delay cancer or delay the onset of Alzheimer's or dementia.

Speaker 1  53:58
If we were live, many of you be nodding your head at me right now and raising your hand, yeah, it's important. Well, then what I would tell you is, look at this, the ability of making videos as a way to get that information out and educate your marketplace. And they're very easy to do. And here's what's great about them. You can do a video one time and it lives for forever now. Dr Schachter did not want to do videos. He's like, I don't want to do videos. He's a former Chief of Surgery. Doesn't want to do them today. It is the number one way that they generate clients. And because, if you when now he is running paid advertising, and he does advertise on TV, where do you think the prospect goes? Well, they go to YouTube to see if he's has a YouTube channel, or they Google and they find his YouTube channel. And what does your prospect do before they call you, before they submit a form online, before they even walk into your office, our studies show that they will stalk you for four to six months, watching videos and researching you online. So you might as well be the one that controls that beyond what they people put on Google reviews or on whatever ZocDoc or whatever else they put it on. You can control the media. And here's the best part about this. This is not paid traffic. They are not running paid traffic to this. They this is you only have to control 25 to 50 mile radius around your practice to dominate your market. That's all you have to do. This isn't about having 10,000 subscribers and a million views. This is just about dominating your market, and you're going to realize this. He if you you'll see, don't mask your joint pain. This is actually what or the danger of steroids. This is actually stuff that people are searching steroid injection risk heal joint pain with platelet gel. He talks about all these different things, and people can go on their own journey. Now the interesting thing about Dr Schachter background, he's a former Chief of Surgery. He has overseen 16,000 joint replacement surgeries. He was making over a million dollars a year while he was a surgeon. He left insurance January one, started his own practice. He now averages $235,000 a month in cash, and he takes two weeks off every six weeks. He's located in Wichita Falls Texas. Now there is a Wichita Falls Kansas. I didn't know that there's a Wichita Falls Texas. It is a town, a military town. It has a military base. The town is about 50,000 people, and around it, there's nothing else but dirt. Okay? And everyone who comes into his office, whether they're there for a regular orthopedic visit, he makes an offer to them of biologics and functional medicine. He's charging 15 to $30,000 for a package, and it'll either be just biologics, just functional medicine, or a combination of both. And what they discovered, and this isn't necessarily a surprise or a revelation, but by treating the hormones and the functional medicine side of things and the biologics, they are getting significantly improved outcomes for their patients. And as these patients get off their pain medications and they no longer have to do steroid injections, and they delay surgery, or they no longer need to have the need for surgery, and they get up their diabetes medications and all of these things. Guess what? They refer people. Over 40% of his business is referral based. People walk in and said, you helped my friend Gary. I want the exact same thing. Dr Schachter also has an indoctrination video that every patient watches before him or his pa come into the room, and it's about a seven minute video that talks about the power of functional medicine and biologics. So when he walks in the door, the patient is pre screened, pre qualified and predisposed to doing business with you. Okay, here's some numbers. Just Sold a package for $37,000 that's an $80,000 week. And you'll see here, Dr Demir says, Can you please outline what's in the package? It was one year wellness, three joints, b max. Joints, BMAC, plus PRP series and plus her husband bought a year wellness. So that's a great day. Okay, all right, so let's assume that you've done these two things. You've become the expert in one thing, and you've pre educated your prospect. The third piece of the puzzle is very simple, and that is how to convert. Now, before we go into this, I am not suggesting that you go out and take sales training classes. That's not what I'm suggesting at all. I am suggesting that you follow a proven system that involves using scripts developing a signature solution in premium prices. I am not suggesting that you become a low cost leader. So when I travel around and so when I travel around, it's always interesting to me. Let me go back here. It's always interesting to me. I asked doctors, how did you come up with your pricing? And here's how the conversation goes. Well, I was at a conference, and I was hanging out with some of my you know, friends and colleagues, and I was asking them, What do you charge say for a PRP injection, and what I found is that everybody seems to be charging right at about $750 so I figured that that just sounded right, so that's what I started charging. And to my answer, or I'll hear, you know, what do you charge for, for a functional medicine package? Well, you know, I asked around, and people are charging anywhere between 1500 or $2,500 and that just kind of seemed right to me, and that's what I'm charging. I'm charging to my answer, I said, so basically, what you did is you went to a conference. You talked to a bunch of other dead broke doctors who can't make payroll and aren't paying them a regular paying themselves a regular salary. About how to set up your pricing. Most of the doctors and my medical clients will look at me, blink a couple of times ago, I see your point. You know, there's been studies done of like, Oh, what is the average that people charge? I don't care what the average is. What I care is if you are setting it up to make money. Now, here's the beautiful thing about this. There is a science as to how you price things, and the science is very simple. In the business world, your costs, all the costs associated with doing the procedure, the kits, or the hormones or the testing or and or the staff that has to administer it, or the blood tests and all of those things, they cannot equate more than 25% of the total cost. That means, if you have a total cost of $250 you have to charge at least, at a bare minimum, $1,000 okay, so most people, when I look at their numbers and they wonder why they're not making any money, it's because they are not charging enough, and they don't have their pricing set correctly, and they have this false belief that their patients won't spend money. And I'm going to completely shatter and debunk that concept for you right now. So there are three keys to converting patients. I'm sorry, there's five things we've already talked about the first two, but you need to have scripting, you need to have a signature solution, and you need to have a premium price. Okay, so let's see. If this sounds familiar, you meet with the patient, you know you can help them. You offer a competitive price and a small discount, and what do they say? No or let me think about it. I prefer getting no over let me think about it. Let me think about it. Means that they don't respect me and my time, and I'm never going to hear from them again. Okay, what patients want is patients want a one stop solution. They want to be told what to do, and they want to know they're going to get improvement. So this is a big mistake that doctors make, is they go in and they go, Well, you can do this, and we can do this blood test and we can do, we can, you know, we want to do a stool test and we want to we should do, you know, we should do, you know, we should do a cleanse and do all of this, and you price everything out individually. And what does your patients say,

Speaker 1  1:01:22
I just, can I just do the blood test, or can I just do the cleanse? And they do that, and you never hear from them again. Okay? Patients don't want to have to know. Have to pick what they want, what they should do. They want to be told what to do. I'm going to give you an analogy of this. Imagine you go into the you go to the cardiologist, and the card, you need quadruple bypass surgery. And the cardiologist goes, tell you what I'm going to do. You need quadruple bypass let's start with one and see how it goes. You're going to run, you're going to completely run away, right? You're going to that cardiologist because you want to get better. You don't want to die of a heart attack. You want to be told exactly what to do. The other thing that patients, that doctors do, is they go, Well, we're going to start here, and then the next time you come in, you're going to pay me another $500 and the next time you're going to come in and pay me another $500 and the next time you come in you're going to pay me another $500 let me tell you something. Your client base, at 55 plus, doesn't like to be treated that way. They want to give you a credit card. They want to know that they're getting a solution for their particular situation. And they want to know that it's going to work and they'll pay dearly for it. And that's the interesting thing about being this age. You know, you don't know how much longer you have on this earth. Your friends are getting cancer and dying and dropping dead of heart attacks. And you go, Gosh, or people getting hit by cars, or whatever it is, and you don't know how much longer you have, and so you're not you don't want to wait around and just try to figure things out. You want to be younger. You want to feel younger. You want to have a better, more robust life. That's exactly what your patients want, and they're not going to buy because you gave them a discount. Okay, imagine going back to that same cardiologist, and you the cardiologist goes, tell you what I'm going to do. You need quadruple bypass, but if you sign up today, I'll do the first two arteries at full price, the second two at 50% off, you'd run and yet, that's exactly what we do. We think that we have to devalue ourselves by offering discounts. And your patient doesn't want that. Your patients wants they patient. Your patients want answers. Okay, so from here on, I want you to only do the following, and that is, sell packages. Never sell a la carte again. Every time you want to sell a la carte, I want you to think about the cardiologist telling you they can do one artery at a time, and you're going to come back every six months, six weeks, and they're going to do the next one. Okay, don't do that. Put together packages that your patients will buy, and then you want to charge premium prices. No one in America, of our client base wants discounted health care. They already have it, and it's called insurance, and insurance doesn't cover anything anymore. You know? The other thing is, why you don't want to do a la carte, because what do they do when they go see their insurance based doctor? Well, the insurance based doctor goes, Well, what we're going to do is, we're going to send you for an MRI, then they're going to come back for the MRI, and they're going, Okay, we're going to try PT first, and then if PT doesn't work, they're going to say, let's do let's say you have a knee issue, we're going to do steroid shots, okay? And then we're going to do this and we're going to do that, and before you know it, the patient 18 months down the road and their knee isn't any better, or they're there, or they go to their doctor, and the doctor says, Take this statin, or take this diabetes medication, and they come back three months later and they take their blood work. Well, let's up it. They don't want that. They're sick and tired of it. So when you do a la carte and you think you're doing a service to the patient, you're actually associating your business and your practice to be just like what they left, and that is to be an insurance practice. Okay? So it's you need to be charging premium prices, and we'll talk more about that in a minute. And then you have to use a script about how to advise, guide and recommend the treatment protocol. Again. Would you ever think about this? Go for the low cost leader and brain surgery or legal advice or tax help? When was the last time your attorney said, tell you what? If you buy two hours, I'll give you the third hour for free. Never. When was the last time you're, you're I mean, what is your doctor pay or what is your lawyer charge you $700 an hour your CPA? They never offer discounts. And again, with the cardiologist. This is Doctor Amy Duffy. This is what Doctor Amy Duffy did. She's in functional medicine in Clemson, South Carolina. It's a small town in 2022 she did $1.2 million in revenue. I met her at an event. She didn't even sign up with me to be a client. Yet, I spoke at an event in november two years ago. She was there, and she told me that her top price was $5,500 for a program. And said, Amy, what you're doing? I want you to charge 10 grand. I want you to go back Monday and charge 10 grand. She did. And the next Monday, that following Monday, she paid. She had two people pay 10 grand for the same package. That was 5500 she called me up and signed up and worked with me. Okay. She's been working with me ever since. In 23 she did $2.4 million she doubled her practice just by raising her prices. She no longer sees patients. She has an entire staff that sees patients, and she increased prices. She only sells packages and she only use scripts. Today. She spends a lot of time playing tennis. She just won the state league championship in tennis, and she travels constantly. Okay, all right, so I'm going to pause here for a second if there are any questions so far, anything that you anything that, and I'm going to, I have some more that I want to share, but I want to, yeah, we have run those ads, not great results so far, but just started a couple of months ago. Yeah, yeah, that's that is the challenge. But any questions so far, you can put them in the chat or unmute. Okay, could not find your podcast? It's the practice Profit System, put it in there. And again, if you just go to iTunes, you can find it or Spotify it's it's everywhere. Okay, let's keep rolling here. All right. So, so far, you've discovered the power one thing, how to build know like and trust and how to get patients to buy. But I want you to get this one last thing. Okay, you can make the money that you deserve no questions. You can take time off from the practice without worrying about it. You can give your patients the best possible care without interference from anyone. And you can fall back in love with medicine again because you're not burnt out. Oh, and by the way, I didn't share this, but I need to our clients after they work with us for a six month period when they go to buy a new piece of equipment, the majority of them pay cash. They do not finance it. We have a we have a in Mavericks. We do not believe in financing. We do not believe in financing new equipment. We believe in running a promotion to help people to for you, to get the money to prepay for it, or to take that out of cash flow. And we have clients that are buying $70,000 lasers. I just had a client buy two brand new H bot machines, the hard sided ones that hold two people. He paid cash for them. He did not finance them. So this is an important thing. So the questions you are probably asking are this, how do I take these concepts and make that happen? Okay, so there's a couple choices. You have two choices. One, you can try and figure this out on your own. You can take what you have here, go through our podcast, figure that on the own, use the trial and error method, but for most people, what we find is that's not going to happen because you're overwhelmed running your practice. You know, you you you come in at eight o'clock in the morning, you leave at six o'clock at night. You're running around. You're doing all these things. You barely have time to see all the patients and handle everything. The second choice is to follow proven system. I'm going to give you some free resources, and I'm going to give you an opportunity. For some of you, if you want to spend a day with me and learn more about this in detail, but if you think about it, this is what you've done, is you've followed a proven system. You went to medical school, did residency, you did a fellowship, or something like that. And even today, you're attending this call, or you're going on conferences or whatever it is. You go out and you follow somebody that has a proven system. When you decided to learn how to go into functional medicine, you learn from somebody that had already done it, and you do exactly what they tell you to do. Well, you have to do the same thing with business. It's exactly the same thing. You sought out, you identified and you hired a mentor. That's what you've done. It's someone who has already done what you want to do, and you did exactly what they did to get the results that you want. Okay, so now, before I tell you who this is for, let me tell you what I'm what this is not for, I'm going to share some things. Give you some free resources that you can get here. If you are happy and you don't want to grow then this is not for you. If you think doctors should stay poor and in debt not charge premium prices, if you feel that doctors shouldn't worry about their businesses, or if you are not coachable, or if you don't like to be pushed to be your very best, then what we have to offer you with our training resources and free resources, it's not going to be for you because and you'll still probably wind up working long hours. Um, this is for the doctor or the medical professional who wants to make what they are worth. I believe that our we tell our clients that we want them making, at a minimum, personally, half a million dollars a year paying themselves at least a quarter of a million dollars a year in salary, and another $250,000 a year in profit that they pay themselves if you want to take off time, more time to spend with your family, if you want to secure their financial future, if you want to fully fund your retirement account, if you want to pay off lingering student debts or financing debts on machines. This is for you. So let's talk about some options. The first option I have is, very simply, I want to give you a free copy of my book, and that is the anatomy of a seven figure medical practice. The book is free. You do pay $7.95 for shipping and handling. This is the exact same system that I used. I walk you through how we used it to grow our practices in the ED space. And we have doctors that take this book and implement it. You can get that by going to Maverick Profit system.com, forward slash, free hyphen book. Or you can scan the QR code right there. Okay, and I'll bring this back up in a minute as well. Or you can do a screenshot of this and come back to it. Okay, so you can get a free copy of my book. There's a few other bonuses that come with it as well. So they're all detailed out on that page. The option two is, I'm going to be hosting a day where 12 practitioners can spend a day with me, and we're going to go into detail on this entire system that I just shared with you. Okay, this entire thing, plus we'll go into the monthly recurring revenue model I have clients now that are generating on that'll generate six figures a month, $100,000 a month in monthly recurring revenue. This is not concierge medicine fees. These are fees for ongoing programs that people pay for monthly and high end offers. I didn't even have a chance to talk about this, but I have doctors that charge upwards of 75,000 to $100,000 for treatment protocols. And guess what people like? Well, how many patients pay for that? Well, if you got two in a year that paid you 100 grand each, would that 200 grand be worth it? And by the way, they don't get access to the doctor. They're not giving them their cell phone. They're not their personal doctor. Remember, people are paying for results. So I make, I want to make an offer where you can join me at a live event in Arizona. You'll get a chance to discover the entire system, see how it works. You'll be able to talk with some of our other members and hear what the sessions are going to be like. We'll have a session where we'll go how to be the go to solution in your market. But you're going to talk specifically for a full 90 minutes about the beachhead. Session two is another 90 minutes where we'll dive in specifically about educate and excite. You'll learn more about how to create the videos, how to go through and post videos, how to get the right topics, how to pre screen, pre qualify and predispose your prospects so they are ready to walk in to buy the third session will be, how does the simple formula to charge premium prices and convert patients without selling we will talk specifically about how you set your pricing. I will go into detail about the formula. I'll show you what other people are charging, what their profits are like, what their revenues are like. I'll show you how to develop your premium packages and your signature solutions, so you no longer charge do a la carte. And then we'll also dive into how to add $50,000 in new cash revenues in the next 60 days, you will be immersed in the process with your own personal learning journey in place. And the next step is, this is what would it be worth to you to finally make the money that you deserve to without working 12 hour days and weekends, to love medicine again, to treat your patients without interference, and if you are still taking insurance, tell insurance to blank off. So let me tell you about the investment for our event. Let's take a look at what you've already been what you've already invested to be where you are today. You have undergrad prep for the MCATs med school or PA school or NP school, whatever you did, residency, Doctor fellowships, interest on your student loans. Many of the doctors that I talked to still carry a quarter of a million to $300,000 in medical school debt. Some of the NPs and PAs at 75 to 125,000 Okay, would you agree it's time for you to start getting paid what what you're worth? And would you invest $100,000 to make an extra 50k a month, like Dr Goyle, an extra 100k a month, like Dr Amy Duffy, an extra 150k a month, like Dr Schacter, or to be like Tracy gap, and bring in close to $400,000 a month while working less well you probably would, and you get to treat your patients as you see fit. The good news is is I'm not asking you to invest 100 grand with me today. In fact, you won't even need to invest invest 50 grand with me, or 25 grand, or 10 grand, or five grand, or even $1,500 with me. What I'm asking is, if you are, if this sounds like something that you would love to learn more about, and you want to get to know us a little bit more, I'd like you to join me for a special one day event in Scottsdale, Arizona, and I would give you an entire preview of the entire system. The event is limited to 12 attendees, and how it works is the one day event is only a deposit of $997 now, why is it a deposit? Because at the end of the one day event, we will tell you about our one on one coaching or our group coaching program, which I won't go to the details here, because time doesn't really allow it, and we cover that in Scottsdale. But if you don't, if you don't join or you don't feel like, more importantly, if you don't feel like you got value out of being there for that one day, I will completely refund your $997 if you decide not to join our group coaching program, that's fine. We'll refund it. Or if you feel it was a waste of your time, we will refund your $997 deposit. But if you choose to join us in what we call business mastery fellowship, the next day we will host or that evening, we will host a celebratory dinner, and then you will come back on Sunday morning, and you will develop your fast start plan. We will work on it for three hours as a group, you will be assigned what we call a client success manager. This is your personal coach. You will meet your coach, and you will get access to all of our training, plus our roadmap, plus one team member is included at no additional charge. So you can bring another team member at no additional charge, our average client will add $50,000 plus in the first 60 days. So and then here's my other question, if you want to make that $50,000 within the 60 days, I want you to listen to me very carefully, because while we're in Arizona, we will show you exactly how to do that and how it works. Very simply, is every single one of you has a list of patients. In that list exists email addresses. We have a proven proprietary process to email that list of patients and prospects and to get them to buy from you. And I'll show you the numbers in a minute. And we call it the 5130 it's not really all important for you, but basically we will run the entire thing. If you have a list, we will set up a call with our team help you get your list, clean your list, make sure the emails are up to date, upload to an email program. We will write the emails for you. We will send them out. We will help you manage the leads as they come in, and we'll show you how to make an additional $50,000 in 60 days using this system. This is what we turned out for. Dr petropali, I'll end with this, and then I'll open it up for more questions. Dr petropali is an orthopedic surgeon for 20 plus years. He fellowed under Dr Andrews, who is the was the preeminent orthopedic surgeon for 40 years. He had falling reimbursement rates. His costs were going through the roof, and he was making $750 for an ACL reconstructive surgery. He told me, Matt, I live in skinny Atlas, New York, which is halfway between Syracuse and Rochester. He said, I work with farmers and no collar workers. They're not going to pay more than $750 I said, Mark, I want you to follow the process. He had 38 employees. He was doing $4.4 million a year, and he was making no money. Today, he has nine employees, and while they're only generating $2.8 million a year, He's highly profitable. So what he did was he created scripts, he followed the signature solution and started charging premium. Charging premium prices. And we did a 5130 for him. Using that process, he booked 12 appointments, he sold four procedures, and the average cash price was just under $20,000 each. And here's the proof. He just performed an $18,760 right knee, shoulder and left knee package. He has a similar package for 15 five coming up on Friday, plus he got this check for $25,000 a couple of days later for a bilateral shoulder and knee. And this is what he literally just sent me this three days ago. He said, Matt, today, I have one lady from Indianapolis who was already already had one procedure with us back in August, who had another procedure on her knee today, and a new procedure on her ankle for $24,000 I went home after that, had lunch with my wife, her cousin, his wife, and my father in law. I got a run in with tank, that's his dog. I had a couple of zoom calls, including one with Atiba. And that was my day, which was pretty damn good. Thank you so much for all your guidance to get us to this point. The ball is just about over the top of the hill at this point, looking forward to continuing to pick up momentum. As of September one, he is completely insurance free. He no longer takes insurance, and his average value package is 17 five. And he lives in rural upstate New York. So to do this, all you have to do is do a one time deposit of 997 again. The preview day is Saturday, December 7. The Fast Start Training is Sunday, December 8. For those who joined BMF and again, the guarantee is the one day. If at the end of the one day event you decide not to join Well, or do you think it was a waste of time, we will refund your 997 deposit. We will finish by 1230 on Sunday, so you can fly out that afternoon, ready to implement on Monday with the new pricing and the new structures, you'll get a preview of the entire system. You'll be able to talk to other doctors who are currently using the system to bring in 50 to $200,000 per month. You will see less patients. You'll be able to take more time off, and you'll be able to get amazing outcomes. Oh, and you'll have control again over your life, your schedule, your checkbook, your retirement funds and your life. So if coming to this and you want to learn more about it, you can click that QR code, it'll take you to the page where you can learn more about the event. It is December 7 in Scottsdale, Arizona. We do not have another one planned yet for 2025 but you know, we, I don't know if we'll be now that running another one of these in 2025 it just or when we will, if we do, if we do, but this is a one time opportunity to come spend a day with us, get to see our team, meet us, and, more importantly, meet other doctors that are having that kind of success. So I'm going to stop there. I have, I'm happy to dive into some other questions. If you want to go into a greater detail on something, on some things, happy to do that. Dr Clearfield, and so there you go. What What questions do people have?

Bill Clearfield  1:20:55
Well, I don't know if it's fair to ask, but what would be a ballpark figure after the deposit? Is that fair to ask, or is that it's

Speaker 1  1:21:06
it's actually so here's, here's the first lesson. Okay, so when you quote prices to your prospects over the phone, you they don't have any concept of what your value is. So if I were to tell you that the program is $75,000 it's not people would be like, Oh my god, nothing's worth $75,000 but if I show you proven a way to add in $1.5 million then $75,000 is is well worth it. So that's why we do the guarantee. I will tell you that it is very it's reasonable. We have a guarantee in the program, a money back guarantee, and I'll also tell you that we let people pay US Weekly, but to go into the details without understanding everything that's in the program and the value, it's kind of hard to do that. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:58
okay, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:59
I but

Speaker 1  1:22:01
it's, but it's, but it's, I will tell you it's, it's not 75,000 Now I will tell you that people, when they work with me one on one for the year, it's $75,000 a year. I will tell you that so you know. And the reason why is it, our clients generally see a 10 to 12x return on their investment when they work with me one on one. Our clients in our group coaching program see similar type of return.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:25
Okay, okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:26
I

Unknown Speaker  1:22:27
What other questions do we have?

Bill Clearfield  1:22:32
I don't know. There's not a whole lot in the chat. And somebody said they ran, they ran ads. Was something you must have been alluding to, not great results, but just started a couple of months ago, and someone else says you answered it the practice Profit System couldn't find your podcast. Have you worked with functional medicine? Pharmacists? We have a disadvantage because we cannot prescribe. I

Speaker 1  1:23:00
have worked with functional medicine doctors. I have not worked with functional medicine pharmacists. That the challenge there is obviously you cannot prescribe, however, the same fundamentals that we talk about with regards to package pricing and creating signature solutions and things like that, and educating those work in any industry like I've worked in 30 industries prior to this, and have worked with clients and five continents. These basic concepts and principles work from the standpoint of raising prices. I think one of the big mistakes that people make is they think that everybody wants a discount, and I just don't believe that, as a guy that used to spend 35 to $50,000 a month with our compounding pharmacy on medications I wanted, I wasn't as concerned about prices. I was about quality, consistency and that things were delivered on time, and so I was willing to pay a premium to do that. So you know, that's that was something that was important to us. So, yeah, we, you know, unfortunately, no, but I would also recommend that you get the book, and I think that'll give you some ideas a place to start, or check out the podcast.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:11
Next question is, have you worked with pas? So absolutely, I was, I could answer that one all

Speaker 1  1:24:17
the time, pas, NPS, doctors, naturopaths, as you know, we have, I do have a chiropractor, but he has a doctor on staff, right? So, you know, they've got to, obviously, be able to prescribe and inject. So yeah, with all of those, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:24:35
we, we actually work with a with a number of groups that that are not physicians, that there's one is a functional medicine, dietitians, um, they do all sorts of, you know, lab work and, and we've worked out all sorts of protocols for you, just about, you name it, not using medication at all. Now, sometimes, you know, or do you get stuck, yeah, but, but usually, the folks we see are the ones that have been, you know, are, you know, been burned out by, by the by the medical profession, and another one is a couple of functional medicine outfits we work with, and They don't use medications at all. And those of you've heard me know you've, we've we've done lectures on hormone optimization, not using hormones. We use herbal remedies, amino acids, vitamins, homeopathic remedies. And my greatest trick is coming up in March, I was invited by the American Academy of Medical acupuncture, and we're going to do hormone optimization utilizing acupuncture. That's so cool. No medication. And I'm not a Chinese herbalist, so I don't know anything about that. So, so I will,

Speaker 1  1:25:58
I will tell you, I will tell you, I have a doctor. Actually, it's Doctor gapping. He works with a number of active and current NFL players. And, you know, the NFL, they can't do hormones, they can't do they can't do peptides. They can't, you know, it's all about how you manage it through gut health and things like that, from a recovery standpoint. And he works with a number of high level profile athletes, names that you would all know, that I obviously can't say. And so yes, he is, and he's charging five to $10,000 for those protocols to those athletes. So granted, the athletes have the money to spend and they want to get one more contract, but, but, yeah, it's, you know, it's, there's certainly bottom line is, I agree with you, there's opportunity there. But again, don't think that people just want to have the low price. It's people don't want low prices. People want results, and they will pay for it. Okay, if you learn anything, just do me a favor. Do one thing. Go raise your prices 25% tomorrow. Don't run it by your staff. Don't get a committee. Don't see if everybody's okay with it, just go raise prices 25% and I guarantee you your conversions will increase, because it's it. I mean, we, I tell clients all the time, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:12
it's like that. You remember that there was a 60 minutes, uh, it was probably 30 years ago, where they took a they went to a perfume factory, and they took a vat of perfume and he divided into three, three sections. And one they sold at kresges, and one they sold it Hess or Macy's, and no one they sold it. Bergdahl, good. You know, high end store. It was all the same thing, but each one had a separate price. And they, by by far, sold most at the high end store versus the lower end. And it was all the same thing. Your

Speaker 1  1:27:41
your price tells your prospect everything they need to know about your skill set. I'm going to say that again, your price tells your prospect everything they need to know about your skill set. So if you're trying to be the low cost leader or undercut your competition on price, well, your patient, your your patient's going to sit there and go, they can't be that good because they don't believe in themselves. So you we should all be charging premium prices. Our core customer has money. We run the data, we look at the data of all of our clients, and we know for a fact that those people have the money to spend, even if they tell you they're dead ass broke. Even the people on Medicare, by the way, have the

Bill Clearfield  1:28:21
money. Who? Who is your who is your ideal client?

Speaker 1  1:28:25
Who is my ideal client? My ideal client is someone that is sick and tired of struggling to make money, and they're willing to invest the time and energy to to have a successful practice, you know? And this is one of the reasons why I love working with people in the medical field, because you all understand sacrifice and hard work, because you had to to get to this place. You understand what. You understand learning new things. You understand studying and going through a process and following a process. And so our best clients are the ones that come in, and they we have a system that we take people through. We have a we have a roadmap, and you basically answer 48 questions, and based on how you answer those questions, it tells you exactly the next thing that you need to master, and when you master that, then it lets you go to the next thing. And so what I love by working with people in the medical industry is they understand that process. They understand the studying, the hard work and getting things done. And, you know, we shortcut that as much as we possibly can and keep it really simple. But, you know, that's, that's my favorite person, the ones that are good, that are coachable, you know. So, so

Bill Clearfield  1:29:31
I'm just going to assume that to get the system up and running, it's a day and a half of training. Is that

Speaker 1  1:29:39
to get Yeah, I mean, you'll come out, you'll come out with a plan after a day and a half. And depending on where you are, it might be that we need to put together a package, which we would do together in December, or set up your pricing to be make it more profitable, but it's going to be custom designed specifically for each one of those doctors. And then we'll give you something to go do that week. Then the following week, you're going to have a call with your client success manager. They'll give you the next thing to work on. And over the next eight to 12 weeks, you'll meet with your client success manager weekly for about 20 minutes. They'll check in your progress. They'll help you make adjustments, answer your questions. We have, we have online training, we have group calls, you know, we have, we have a whole bunch of stuff. We have masterminds that come with that. So it's a pretty robust program, but, yeah, I mean, though we see we see clients. I always call my doctors, patients. Sorry, my clients, patients. We see clients of ours come back and literally, within one day, they've increased their prices and they'll make another five to 10 grand easily. Um, you know, for those of you that know Don Buford in the biologic space, Don was charging 750 today, John charges 2900 and it's the exact same thing. And he's working half the amount of time, and he's making like, three times the amount like, that's again, that story is over and over and over again, and it's in functional, you know, functional and biologics are really our, you know, those are kind of the catch all for everything that we do.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:02
The question of Dr stone, do you have any psychiatrists?

Speaker 1  1:31:06
I do not. I do not have any psychiatrists. But again, you know when, when people are dealing with mental challenges. Here's what I will tell you is, again, assuming that he's really good at what he does, um, and he doesn't, and he's not taking insurance anymore, you can charge what you want again, if you have, if you're seeing eight patients a day, let's, let's just say, let's just say you're seeing 20 patients in a week. Let's just make the math easy, and you're charging $100 well, that's $2,000 a week if you see 15 patients a week and you charge $400 well, you're going to make a lot more money, and there's people that will pay more. And by the way, what happens? Dr Clearfield, we find that the patient becomes more compliant. The more you charge, the more likely they are to follow the plan that you're laying out for them, because they have a big vested interest in making it work. And I don't, I don't care, by the way, if it's psychiatry or functional medicine, the more people pay, the more compliant they're going to be. It's just that simple. There's a psychological and there's a placebo effect that kicks in as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:22
I Okay. Dr Siegel's not on anymore. How about psychiatry, sorry, how about veterinarians?

Speaker 1  1:32:31
Again, same thing. I mean, how much do people so my wife's in advertising, right? And people pay more for the health of their pets than they do for themselves. I mean, we have two dogs, and you would think that these are our children. I mean, you know, they get to go to the spa and get their nails done, and, you know, they get they have a dog walker that comes in to take care, and we buy really expensive food for them that doesn't have GMO in it, so that they're going to be healthy. Like people spend an insane amount of money on their pets. And premium pet goods are the are that's massive in the market. So, does it work for vets? Yes, it would work for vets, because people will pay an insane amount of money for their pets. You know, they're paying three grand for a dog that they got that was bread, right? Like, you know, for the mini golden doodle. And they got a waiting list for nine months, you know?

Unknown Speaker  1:33:22
So absolutely.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:23
So I'll let her know, or the

Speaker 1  1:33:26
dog or the dog beds. Like, let's take a look at the dog beds. I mean, those things are better than what I sleep on. So, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:33
right. Have you worked with hands on osteopathic physicians?

Speaker 2  1:33:37
Yes, I have. And do,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:42
all right, there you go. Absolutely Okay. All right, and anybody else have any comments or questions, so, okay, and you said up to 12 in this workshop that you have,

Speaker 1  1:34:01
yep, up to 12 entities. We just released this. We have, I think one or two of the slots are taken already.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:10
So,

Speaker 1  1:34:12
you know, I think we have done, I did this before in a two day format. We've done it twice before. Our clients have absolutely loved it. And you know what? Again, what I'll say is there's just not really a place for the business training side of things. It's usually kind of stitched together in, you know, the medical professionals, they get kind of taken advantage of. They think, oh, I just need more leads. Or they they have an agency doing this, or somebody else doing that, and doesn't really stitch all together. We want to show you how to build the system for a business that generates revenue and automatically generates patience for you so that you don't have to work as hard.

Speaker 2  1:34:51
So did I hear you say, two people for the price of one? Two

Speaker 1  1:34:57
people for the price of one? Yes. 997, you want

Bill Clearfield  1:35:01
to go on a road trip, Joe, you betcha,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:03
it's warmer in Arizona. Hell, yeah, it is.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:07
It's been a while. Is that where you are? No,

Speaker 1  1:35:11
no, I'm in Charlotte, North Carolina. But I like going to Arizona. I like being on the west coast. So we provide breakfast and lunch. And if you know, one of the things you learn by events is I really like food, so I don't have crappy food, so the food's always really good. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:35:26
okay, all right. There you go, Joe, road trip and and we

Speaker 1  1:35:30
have a front I didn't say this on Friday night, we have a meet and greet of cocktails and hors d'oeuvres. So when you get in, for those of you that get in a little bit early, again, I'm Irish, so I know how to have a good bar, alright, so or else, what, or whatever else you want to have that help instead, if it's not alcohol, if it's something else you can have that, I don't care. Doctor

Bill Clearfield  1:35:52
Burgess isn't on tonight, so he'd be talking about ayahuasca.

Speaker 1  1:35:55
Oh brother, if you want mushrooms or gummies, go right ahead. I'm all in. So, yeah, I love that stuff. Got

Bill Clearfield  1:36:03
some thank yous and appreciation and thank you so much for being with us. We always like to bring you know, most of the time we do medical things. In fact, next week, in case you're interested, we have Dr dobner, I think Piper dodner, we're going to learn more about the microbiome. So mostly we do, mostly we do medical, you know, integrative medical stuff. But every once in a while we need, we need to step out and and learn what's going on in the real world, because otherwise we get, get walked on, as you know, yeah, well, happy

Speaker 1  1:36:39
to provide more resources for you all. Dr Clearfield, not only do we have our channel and but I'll send them over to you. Feel free to share with folks. Yeah, let

Bill Clearfield  1:36:49
me know, and he can send me the link to the podcast. We'll put it on our email that you know, that we put out every week. Okay, you bet one, yeah, one last thing so Saturday mornings or Saturday at noon. If you're on the East Coast, 9am Pacific, we have our research group meeting. They've met for the last several weeks. If you're interested in joining them, let me know, and I'll get you the I'll get you the link up to that. Okay, just send me a message for anybody and anybody, and anybody in the group and, and it's Doctor Bill nine at Gmail. You all should know how to find me by now. So that's next week. If you have nothing to do. At the end of the week, I'm leaving tomorrow for Salt Lake City for ammg and age management Medical Group. I'm doing a lecture on Sunday on mTOR, autophagy and rapamycin, and that's usually a good time. It's not nearly as big as a 4m which is craziness.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:57
Oh god, it's

Bill Clearfield  1:37:58
insane and but it's so it's a nice group. There's usually 250, to 300 there, and it's a pretty tight knit group, and we usually have a good time with them, and that's in Salt Lake City, and that's this weekend. If around and anybody else have any anything that they're either presenting or found, found interesting. Please let us know. We always like to know what's going on around the country. Dr Nari is not on tonight, so I don't know what he's Oh, he's in Germany, that's right. He's at the some sort of functional medicine thing in Germany. And I guess Stefan's not here. Any that the red light guy. He's going to an Italian functional medicine conference, I think in the next two weeks. So nice. Yeah, we have a, we have a rather eclectic group here. So love it. Okay, body. So we'll see you next week. Same time, same station. We've been here for four years. Believe it or not, october 2020, we started, and we've been here every Tuesday for four years, except I think I missed one. I think it was a fourth of July once. So so we're still going strong. And anybody has anything that wants to present, please let me know. And you know, I always say, Bring one person. We double our senses. We were a little like tonight. I don't know why, but you know what, most

Speaker 1  1:39:22
people hear about the business stuff. But that's okay. The ones that were to hear

Bill Clearfield  1:39:25
it actually, actually, I think you're right. You know that those sometimes, you know I'm just, I don't care about that. We just want to know that. You know what, the nitty gritty medical stuff. So, so next week, we're going to get a little, a little bit more insight into the microbiome. And if any other topics, please let me know that you're interested in. And if any of you are interested in the not, especially the one folks who can't prescribe, let me know. Maybe I think we might, might want to do a series on that. I did that just as that as, as kind of a fun kind of thing, of saying, you know, at the end of every lecture. So, so Matthew, you you deal with a lot of different folks, they always say, Well, you know, you could do this, that. And the other thing in the diet, you could do this, that. And the other thing is, as you know, for herbal remedies. So I got it in my head one one day, why don't I put that all together into into one thing, and we have here all the herbal remedies to raise, raise estradiol. Here's the herbal remedies to lower estradiol. Here, here are the herbal remedies to lower thyroid antibodies. And so it cut it's sort of taken on a life of its own. And then I found out that there's whole societies. There's one called functional diet diagnostic nutritionists, I think, FDN. And there's another one, American Academy of Functional health. So, yeah, so, yeah. And they have, you know, 100 200 followers. But it's, it's, it seems to be a thing that's taking off and, and I have to also tell you that the medical doctors really don't like, I mean, I called the, you know, the white bread. Medical doctors really don't like it at all. No, they

Speaker 1  1:41:11
don't. But, you know, they'll be, they'll survive. They'll be, there's, there's

Bill Clearfield  1:41:15
one who, who I get an email once a week from, who was just, you know, just unbelievably, you know, you know, right down the line, you know, there's nothing wrong with GMOs. Sugar doesn't cause any problems. You know. What's the matter with glyphosate? You grow more food that way. What's the matter with you people? In fact, I think a couple of weeks ago, I was contemplating asking it and seeing if we'd like to hear from her. But most of our members said we don't need to hear that. So yeah,

Speaker 1  1:41:46
no, we don't. We don't need to hear that. Let them let her, you know, look at it this way. It's a feeder system for us, for our future patients to be sick, and we just get to fix it. So look at it

Bill Clearfield  1:41:55
that way. Yeah, yeah. It just, it just sort of feeds the feeds the the monster. So, okay, everybody. So, Matthew, thank you so much. It was very, very informative. And we'll, we'll be in touch and anybody so make sure you, if you're interested in, in his offer, there's a scan. We'll, we'll send you the contact list too, also.

Speaker 2  1:42:16
Okay, great list. Okay, alright, awesome. So

Bill Clearfield  1:42:20
see you again next week, same time. Thanks guys. Everybody stay safe and hopefully somebody will show up in Lake City this weekend. I'll see you soon.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:30
Take care guys, thanks for having me. All right, bye bye. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai