Bill Clearfield  00:00
Of this. Yeah, thank you for having me. Okay, Doctor Nario, I think, set this up. So okay, he's usually, he's usually in a little after five. So okay, so we've been doing this for Since 2020, and every, every Tuesday night. I think I missed last Christmas and New Year or, yeah, Christmas and New Year's Eve. That was the only two I've missed. I think that's an impressive track record. I know you think we should make some money off of it. to to unmute himself. Alright, alright, everybody. Thank you so much, and we'll see you again. Same time same station. I'll get the video up as soon as it's done, and let you know if you know any any future stuff. Okay. All right, so Good night everybody. Thank you all. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  02:24
Anything? No, no, no, I have. I have. I have what we did. But this the one on Sunday, didn't What wasn't quite kosher there. So it was I didn't, I hadn't seen what he'd sent me, so

Unknown Speaker  02:46
I, I just put in something about the was one of your videos on GIS, you know, controls, the controls the world, or something.

Unknown Speaker  03:00
So, so, so they'll usually start straggling them by now, I don't see anybody, so you and me, we won't do it, but I we've had a we've had quite a few sign ups. So okay, they'll be, they'll be showing up. So, and you got here. So I always worry that I'm on the wrong on the wrong channel or something. Yeah, I have that fear sometimes too. It's like, and the only one here, what's up? Yeah, so, yeah, so

Unknown Speaker  03:33
and

Unknown Speaker  03:36
so, you're quite busy with the with the biotics. I am. My role is predominantly related to clinical education. So that entails the customer base, you know, doing stuff like this to try to attract in new customers, or just create a presence out there, and then anything professionally related. So, yeah, there's quite a bit that falls under that, under that, because I end up having to deal with the sales staff, the marketing staff. So there's quite a bit to do. You have. You still see patients? Or did you give that a I didn't know. I do still see patients. I actually moved to a telemedicine practice back in 2016 so that's what I've had for almost 10 years now. It, it fits my lifestyle a little better at this stage. Yeah? Well, we've done a lot of that because of, you know, the circumstances, but I still like having somebody right in front of me here. Yeah, yeah, there's, there's definitely a place for it. I My desire was to move out into the out into the country, and I did that, and it was going to be hard to maintain a practice leaving the city like I had had before. And so I just decided I've got to revamp my format if I'm going to continue to exist. And that's that was a lot of the driving force behind doing that. What city did you leave? I lived just outside of Houston for probably close to 20 years.

Unknown Speaker  05:13
Okay, and you're so you're in Texas now, I am still in Texas. I live about two hours outside of Houston, so Houston's still the biggest city that's closest to me. And an uncle taught at Texas A and M for 40 years. So, oh, wow. Okay, yeah, he's fortunately got dementia. He's 98 years old. He's still around. Wow, fortunately he's got some dementia. So, all right, we're starting to get some some in now. So

Unknown Speaker  05:46
I said in some weeks we get 40. Some weeks we get we get 70 or so. So whatever the number is, it'll be good. Yeah, that's fine. So hey, Bill, how you doing? Okay, Victor, how are you? Thank God I wasn't able to make it the last couple of weeks because you were launching your meeting right at the middle of Mincha. Oh, well, sorry.

Unknown Speaker  06:18
So my daughter find out about that. Thank God for daylight savings time. Oh, there you go. Yeah, so, so we're good to go now, right? Yeah, we're good. I appreciate everything. Thank you. Okay, you know we need, we need to talk, you know, offline here, so we go over some of the material that you got from me. Yeah, definitely, you maybe we could do that next week, we'll touch base. Okay, so in. Dr Nario, we always, we always is here somehow. We always, we always want to know what the before we start there. Doctor Hill, Dr Nari, always tells us what's what gives us the the integrative medicine Tip of the Week that he's taking his classes at the Andrew Wiles course in the University of Arizona. So we learned, we learned it about bicycle seats. That's the one that sticks in my mind. Yeah, we learned things. We learned this.

Unknown Speaker  07:27
Okay, so our, well, we're working on

Unknown Speaker  07:33
synergistic effects of supplements. So one thing that we all know, or we already know, is iron with vitamin C, right? But for me, one thing of aha moment. For me, it does not only enhances absorption of iron. So what it does, it also enhances what's going on in the inside, meaning, as you add vitamin C to iron, it also increases the bone marrow erythropoies Almost by 75% and also it actually increases your iron storage, which is ferritin, by almost 10 to 20% and also stimulates other Iron dependent enzymes, which almost five to 15% of The body function that we have. So this is achieved again by a proper balance of vitamin C and iron. Another one would be b6 and magnesium. So you're you're in the autism world. So Nyan Bryce of 2005 study showed that there is actually a benefit for the behavioral changes of these autistic kids with b6 a range of it's very, I guess, far of a range, around 30 to 500 milligrams per day, and magnesium, 1000 to 500 milligrams per day. And this actually also has an effect, also in lowering down the side effects of too much b6 so magnesium, again, buffers that, and lastly, for vitamin E and vitamin A. So this actually enhances the effects of the immune function, and also, at the same time, it helps recycle vitamin E in terms of extending the antioxidant effects. And you have to use ascorbic acid, or buffered the dose of 500 to 1000 milligrams, and also for the vitamin E, the natural delta alpha tocopherol, not the synthetic and you actually, you can also use the mixed toco tocopherols, which is gamma which has also broader antioxidant effects versus the alpha and yeah. So those are the three standouts in our lessons. For some of them, maybe you guys know already, but for me, it was like my aha moments, well, I got one for you too. Then my, my, you know, I'm taking, I went back, and I'm now taking the basic, IFM course again, and you would ask me why, and because there's always little tidbits in there that that I can pull out. And so I found one so iron, like you said, and vitamin A, 10,000 units of vitamin A and 3030, milligrams of iron glycinate will increase testosterone levels by about 8% so we don't have to use the creams, the injections, well,

Unknown Speaker  10:32
just jack them up with iron and vitamin So, yeah, so though, yes. So that's, that's, that was my little tidbit for the week here. So nice. Okay, so what's the dose of your iron? Iron is 28 milligrams of iron glycinate. But you want to add your C there too, right when you put your also, yep. So we have all these, so Dr Hill, we always have these little clinical tips before, before we get into the main, in the main main, these are pearls. So, so, so everybody, it's, it's a little after five. So we, we have a bit of our crew here so, so this is Dr Arlen Hill. He's the Clinical Director of complete care Wellness Center and wellness coordinator of the specialty health care and wellness multi disciplinary clinic in Houston, Texas. He's a doctor of chiropractic medicine and a board certified diplomat of the American clinical board of nutrition in practice since 2003

Unknown Speaker  11:48
with a clinical focus on science based natural therapies for the management of chronic diseases, Doctor Hill received his doctorate from Texas chiropractic college and a graduate degree in Public Health from University of Massachusetts. Amherst. He's a regular at the Texas A and M Health Science Center, College of Medicine, and also at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston. His interest in small intestinal bacterial overgrowth stretches back more than a decade. His approach to tend to this conditioning challenges conventional approaches, while adhering to an evidence based approach, he sees patients with a focus on helping patients who failed previous treatments by helping them look beyond the obvious and intermediate manifestations. He serves as clinical director of education for biotics research, where he assists practitioners like us in understanding the conditions and introduces them to treatment strategies that look beyond overgrowth and focuses on factors that set the stage for the condition. So Dr Hill, welcome. Thank you for being with us. We'll let folks in as they come and away we go. Let me share my screen with you guys, and we'll be off and running here. And if you'll just give me a confirmation that you've got my screen, we have it perfect. Alright, guys, I am looking forward to sharing this information with you. I always enjoy talking about small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. Is by far one of the more prevalent forms of dysbiosis out there, and it has a very unique factor about it, or characteristic, maybe, to state it another way, which is that it tends to be notorious for relapsing. And so that's going going to be an underwriting theme in this conversation tonight, but I want to show you. I want to create a picture of what the landscape around SIBO is in terms of diagnostics, maybe what, maybe what a more accurate picture is, and what is typically portrayed with those and then look at how we can really get to a point where we can stop these relapses from continually occurring. So with that being said, that the notion of a relapse is something that has been very well stated in the literature. Most studies that really get into looking at SIBO at a kind of a macroscopic view, will acknowledge this point. There's variances in time frames. I'll show you some of the more consistent ones that we tend to see with this. But it does very much end up being a scenario where patients work with a practitioner, they typically will see resolution, and then within a few months, they're right back where they were scratching their head, wondering if it was the antibiotic that was the problem, wondering if it was the practitioner that was a problem. And the reality is, is that most of the time, it's neither one of those that are that are the issue. It's just that some of the causative factors haven't been dealt with by that individual. So very well noted in terms of its relapse rate. On this you'll notice that, interestingly enough, SIBO as a whole, even though, in a group like this, we probably tend to think about SIBO as all of us would acknowledge it. I mean, it's not something that any of us would deem to be a foreign concept, but when you look at it in just the average clinical practice out there, it ends up being a misdiagnosis, because it's just not something that's thought about many times the the interventions for it are very much symptom related, using things like antibiotics. But it again, it's very clearly a scenario where there's not going to be any long term, lasting resolution here, in terms of looking at our understanding, I wanted to present this general information to you, just to give you an idea of what the what the explosion of information is around SIBO, this was something that you would see a few studies pop up here and there over the years, back leading up To the 2000s and then as we got around 2010 we really saw that the information around this exploded. And now if you look, you've got new studies coming out consistently, every month, at a pretty good clip. Really funny. Just to go back the opposite direction, if you look at some of the earliest statements around SIBO, this was noted in the medical literature all the way back in 1897 so this is not something that is a recent identification. It's just one of those things that hasn't been paid a lot of attention to, up until recent years. And I, as I've looked at this, one of the other things that really stands out to me is that a lot of the data that's coming out around SIBO is not necessarily data that has been generated in the United States. It's been generated outside of the United States. Many of these studies, you'll see this one that I've got highlighted here. Many of these studies are done in Russia, and there's some interesting aspects about that that I think we can glean some clinical pearls from. And have some insight. I'm going to show you one of the final studies in terms of things to do for SIBO, how information that we've been able to glean from some of these Russian studies can be an attribute for us. Now this is a study that in terms of statistics, if you're going to look at any numbers, this is one that I would really, I would really dive into these numbers and just commit some of these to memory, because it'll give you a a benchmark with the patients to try to shoot for. So the numbers are about 44% but let's just, let's just round that up to say half, roughly about half of individuals are going to relapse within nine months. And so that's a that's a significant number of people that are falling back. And even as I have conversations with gastroenterologist that are more functionally minded, we get into this topic. You know, a lot of them will say to me, I actually had one gastroenterologist say to me, she laughed at me when I told her that based on this study outcome, she's like, Are you kidding me? It doesn't take most of these patients nine months. She's like, three months, six months. That's that's when we're seeing a lot of these folks relapse. And that is true. I just picked up a new gentleman, new patient, over the last two weeks, and that was his story. He hadn't even been three months, and he was already relapsing after undergoing two trials of antibiotics. And so if you think about that factor, and then layer on top of that that approximately 30 to 40% of your patients may not have resolution even after doing antibiotics. There's a lot of individuals out there that are struggling with this. It's estimated that about 20% of the population deals with SIBO. But when you start looking and asking questions, looking at symptoms that are related to SIBO, it seems like it's higher than that, just based on clinical observation. So what I want to delve into with you tonight, at a deeper level, are going to be some of the clinical features. We are going to talk about, the testing, the the implications broad spectrum, in terms of what other conditions is SIBO linked to? And I think this is absolutely, probably one of the most important things to take away from, from this is that sometimes, when you look at different conditions, for example, we'll talk about some liver dysfunction, really, things that are extra intestinal, if you will. And you look at this linkage back to SIBO, if we the logic in that is, is that you have to deal with that dysbiosis in the small intestine. And if we don't, we shouldn't expect these other health conditions to really resolve to any degree. I do want to look at some of the conventional guidelines. I think there, there are some things there that are advantageous to look at and to learn from. But I also think that there are some things that, as we approach this from a functional mindset, really, we can do a better job. And that means leaning into some complimentary approaches. It means going specifically beyond just looking at this as an anti microbial strategy, and even doing things that may, at the outset seem completely antagonistic of what you should be doing, like introducing more organisms into the gut with probiotics or beneficial fungal species. But these things do, in fact, actually show benefit. So let's define SIBO, and one of the things to note about SIBO is that it's not simply just too many organisms in the small intestine. That is definitely one of the criteria criteria. So when we get to a level where we have greater than 10 to the fifth colony forming unit in the small intestine, that is one of the criteria. However, we also need to acknowledge that the type of bacteria are different as well. So it's not just that there's too many, is that the type are different. So we've got more of a colonic type of bacteria. So these are organisms that should be predominantly residing in the large intestine, and now they're starting to overgrow in the small intestine. We also see that there is a shift from a gram positive to a gram negative. You've got these, generally, the clinical presentation is at there's a this constellation of GI symptoms that the patient comes in with, and they've shared these with other practitioners, and they just haven't been able to get a good resolution or a good firm diagnosis. What's ultimately driving that? And there is this overlap with irritable bowel syndrome now it is it there is a well noted overlap. In fact, the overlap here is about 75% between the two conditions, but they are two very independent conditions. If you look at who's predominantly at risk for this, females do have a higher predisposition. Age is a factor, and I can definitely tell you that the age, when I look at my patient base, I can definitely tell you age is a player in that and that is a byproduct, in my estimation, from what I see and what I read, that is a byproduct of decreased output of the gastric secretions that are causing that. A lot of times as I begin to replace some of these digestive secretions with that aging population, a lot of times they can keep their SIBO at bay. Medications, pretty notorious for this, PPIs. In fact, there is a classification of SIBO known as PPI induced SIBO and opioids, all these things that are either affecting gastric secretions or that are going to inhibit motility, are the things that we look at as driving factors behind the manifestation of SIBO. And I won't read all these to you, but if you just scan down through the list here of Gi conditions, and then over on the right side of the slide, you'll see several different conditions here that are associated with SIBO. Many of you are dealing with hypothyroidism, I will definitely point to that there is a solid connection with hypothyroidism. If any of you are dealing with Restless Restless Leg Syndrome, Parkinson's diabetes, I mean, these are all things that we are seeing at a greater prevalence, and so, you know, at one point, maybe these were things that were a little more abstract. You didn't see them as readily. But now these are just mainstays in clinical practice. Now when it comes to diagnosis, so that patient presents, you've got the suspicion of SIBO, and you're thinking, okay, now I need to really diagnose this. Well, how do we do that? Well, there's really three directions you can go here. So at the outset, you can, you know, we put on our clinician hat, and we listen to the patient, we take their history, and we look at them clinically and say, okay, bloating, gas, distension, abdominal pain, diarrhea, check, check, check, yes, you've got a very strong predisposition or likelihood here, probability that you're dealing with SIBO. Then you go to the non invasive category. So maybe you want to get into some testing. And in the non invasive category, we can look at glucose breath test, lactulose breath test. These are the ones that are generally talked about and acknowledged in the literature. These are the ones that are very condition specific, if you will. And then if we want to go to an invasive option, there is what's known as a

Unknown Speaker  24:04
small bowel aspirate. Now, interestingly enough, on this, this is really just an endoscopy with a sample being taken here, but this is even though invasive, you might think, Oh, I'm getting better information. That actually ends up not being the case. In fact, what we actually find is that the there's probably as many issues with the invasive methodology as there is with the non invasive methodology here. So let's, let's delve a little deeper into these diagnostics. Remember, we want to look at the clinical picture. So to go a bit deeper on this than what I just shared with you, so individuals that have weight loss, that's that's secondary to malnutrition, is what's and malabsorption, that's what's driving that stead area. So seeing the stools float the fat in the stool signs of hypoalbuminemia. So when you're looking at your CBC chemistry is just doing your typical standard workup. That's going to give you some insight. And interestingly, I've also got a slide in this presentation as well that'll also show you some additional markers you should look for on your basic chemistries that should that could give you some direction towards a SIBO diagnosis. Vitamin deficiencies. I'm that's an actual section in this presentation, but vitamin deficiencies are absolutely something you should not overlook when it comes to SIBO. In fact, if if you think about SIBO as a three step process, step one being the antimicrobial phase, step two being dealing with motility and digestive secretions, and step three, being dealing with what I like to call collateral damage, and that being the vitamin deficiencies and the macronutrient deficiencies these. These are just known to be associated with SIBO, so that in scenarios where the practitioner doesn't address these, it's not a complete it's not a complete model for addressing SIBO that has to be factored in. And then the things that you'll see the typical symptoms listed on the right side, those are some of the ones that I preview. That I previously mentioned. But again, those are the hallmarks. Those are the ones that really can start to point us in that direction. And you'll see, you probably want to come back to this information in terms of how some of these mechanisms, how do these symptoms begin to manifest. And there's really a multitude of different things here. I would also one thing that I don't want to overlook on this slide that is a bit unique is going into the lab testing. You'll see where it talks about anemias and neuropathies, those patients that are presenting with persistent fatigue, persistent B vitamin deficiencies, you've got more of a macrocytic anemia presentation. And then, certainly, if you're dealing with any type of neuropathic presentation, absolutely, you want to consider that SIBO might be a driving force behind that, and then also put a little asterisk in there as well, that Helicobacter pylori is likely a factor in this also. And I'll show you the connection here coming up between SIBO and h pylori, but those two very often travel in tandem, and h pylori, many times, sets the stage for SIBO. And so that's another one we want to factor into this conversation also. So what are your assessment options here? Well, let's go through these that I mentioned earlier at a little deeper level, and then add two more in here. So the first is going to be that direct assessment of the of the culture, of the small intestinal contents, and that, ironically, is considered the gold standard for SIBO. But the problems are one. It's invasive. It just is not easy to do. And when you look at so many people in the population, right? So even if we look at what the what the acknowledge number is of 20% that's 20% of the population that needs to go for an invasive testing it's just not a realistic model to use here. It's cumbersome, it's invasive, it's costly. The methodology on this has a lot of problems associated with it in terms of how the sample is taken, how the sample is handled after it's taken. There's just a lot of technique issues linked here with the breath testing. You can do hydrogen methane many times. These are done together. Hydrogen Sulfide is looked at in this and then these are non invasive and inexpensive and relatively straightforward. But here's the catch on these, and I'll show you this by the numbers, is that these lack sensitivity and specificity. Well, if we don't have testing that's actually up to a certain level of sensitivity and specificity, is it really clinically valuable? And that's what the literature questions on this stool testing. So this really depends on the methodology here and how you're looking at it. So here's what I'll tell you about stool testing, because I have a feeling that many of you are probably, if not doing this, considering doing this stool testing is not You're not going to get a black and white diagnosis of SIBO on a stool test, and it's not considered in the literature to be, to be a methodology for assessing for SIBO. But this is what I can tell you about stool testing, you will find that there are consistent patterns that show up in stool test for SIBO. So for example, elevations and things like streptococcus and staphylococcus species in the small intestine, in the GI tract, those are, those are well known to be indicators of low hydrochloric acid. Well, what sets the stage, or what does the low hydrochloric acid set the stage for it sets the stage for SIBO. You look at other digestive dynamics, things like elevated fat in the stool. So your st adequate markers, your elastase, one giving you ideas about pancreatic output, looking at the pH in the stool, giving you some idea on transit time. There's all these additional markers that even though a stool test is not a testing methodology specific for the diagnosis of SIBO, where it becomes valuable, is giving you insight into what is likely there, confirming your suspicion, but also telling you what what digestive dynamics were sub optimal, that set the stage for SIBO. And then, of course, there's always the empiric therapeutic trial of antibiotics or antimicrobials. And in fact, if you look across all clinical practice, this is the most common assessment methodology, put the patient on an empirical trial. They respond positively to it. You assume that they had SIBO. They got a positive outcome. It was probably SIBO. So there is that strategy as well. And in a scenario where you don't have disposable income to work with for getting this testing done, that may be the avenue to pursue, in terms of the different substrates that we can look at, you'll see that we've got glucose lactulose here. Glucose is going to be absorbed in the proximal small intestine. Now keep in mind when we say that is because of where that glucose is predominantly absorbed. It may not give a full picture, depending on where the predominance of organisms are residing at, in the small intestine, if you're looking more down in towards the jejunum, towards the ileum, if that's where the predominance of species are at, creating those symptoms, you may not see that adequately with a glucose test, with a glucose breath test, lactulose, unabsorbed in the small intestine, passes into The colon. So potentially a benefit. But again, I'm going to show you these numbers here, and these can not that weren't but let me just say it this way. These can be confused with lactose and fructose, but these are completely different. This is not looking at a malabsorption issue. So those are just different tests altogether there. So let's talk about the hydrogen and the methane test execution for a minute. So this is one of the first perils with this test. Is that you really have to be dialed in in terms of how you execute this test. The diet has to be on point with a low residue diet. There needs to be at least a 12 hour fast in there. There's got to be some period of washout when it comes to the medication, so making sure that those aren't impacting the motility, or if it's an antibiotic that's going to require an even longer washout phase. Lifestyle factors like smoking. I mean, you guys know, if you've dealt with a smoker, how difficult that is to get them to give that up just to even get a test done. There's some problems with the load administration on these various substrates. And then even when you look at things like the oral flora, in fact, and I don't remember if I have this in here, but I'll go ahead and tell you this just on the instance that I don't there's actually two What are there's two segments of SIBO in terms of the organisms and where they're suggested to colonize from. I gave you one earlier, which was the colonic type, but there's also what's known as aero digestive and so what this means is that when we talk about the colonic type, that's where the ileocecal valve, that junction between the large and small intestine, you can get some back flush there, and that can be a factor that could seed the organisms from the colon into the into the small intestine. There is also the possibility of consuming those or having exposure through the oral route. But then the arrow digestive way is these organisms are literally over growing in the oral cavity. And because they're being routinely swallowed, they're orally seeding the manifestation of SIBO. So you're literally swallowing the organisms. And because they're not getting killed off in the stomach and upper small intestine, they can begin to populate in the small intestine. Now just look at this is a snippet of what a preparation process looks like. And notice on this that you're looking all the way out to four weeks in terms of preparation. Now let me just use one of these as an example. If you've got a patient on a pro kinetic, and you tell them for four weeks you've got to be off of a prokinetic they're not going to be happy with you. That is, you're looking at exacerbating their constipation, right? And so that's very unsettling. It's discomforting for them. It's actually exacerbating the very problem that you're trying to get more insight on. So even at the outset, there's some concerns with the testing here, just in the preparation process. Now, if you haven't seen what these look like, let me share with you. This is an illustration of what the breath test look like. And there are some general baselines that we want to look at here, the first of which is that we want to see that at any time that there is an increase above 10 parts per million in methane, that that can be an indication for a methane based SIBO, and then when you look at hydrogen, if it's above 20 parts per million. Now I'm going to insert something here for you, because, as I've really read this literature and try to understand this better, I personally think that it really should be a focus for methane is where our conversation should be at, not so much around hydrogen, and there's a couple of reasons for that. One is that 70% of the microbiota in the entire gastrointestinal tract are producing hydrogen, so that, in and of itself, tells you that the available, the availability of hydrogen, is, there is a benefit to that. There's something to be harnessed there. In addition, we know that when you just do a PubMed search and you start looking at the physiological roles of hydrogen, it is it's going to have a neutralizing effect on inflammatory cascades, it's going to offset oxidation. So there's a lot of attributes just to the presence of hydrogen. And so really, it's probably the methane here that is the bigger culprit in terms of really driving the downstream effects here that we talk about. But nonetheless, I told you I would come back to this notion about sensitivity and specificity. And this is the data, right? And this is really important data for you to look at, because this is not just looking at glucose or lactulose, it's looking at both tests. And so just to refresh you on this, sensitivity is telling you that you actually do have a

Unknown Speaker  36:18
true positive. Specificity is telling you that you do actually have a true negative and so the sensitivity for glucose breath test is only 54% in your lactulose breath test, it's only 42% those are not good sensitivity numbers at all. Those are not numbers that really, in any other arena of clinical practice, would we lean on those numbers and really base our decision making process? And this is a lot of times, I think, also, why practitioners don't feel that the data they get back with these breath tests is a good correlate to what is with what is sitting in front of them, with the patient, and that becomes a problem, because if you've got a symptomatic patient sitting in front of you, and you do a test that says that they don't have a an overgrowth in the small intestine, how does the patient rationalize that? In their mind, you're telling them one thing, but the test says something else. You would have been better off for going to test, and just putting them on an empirical trial and really winning their confidence and at least reducing their symptomatology. So these are important numbers to look at that are not just numbers. They actually have clinical implications associated with them. Also note here, and this is in 2018 that there were this is a test that looked to see if the breath testing actually had corollary to doing a DNA based bacterial cell count. So looking at the CF use based on DNA assessment, and just simply it said, No, we don't find any significant correlation here that we can put our trust and faith in. All right, so that raises some flags for sure. Here's the other thing you got a note. Got to note with this, which is, let's just talk anatomy for a minute, right? So let's just back out to the very basics and acknowledge that when we talk about the small bowel, small intestine, it's 19 foot 19 feet long. And remember I said the colonization can happen anywhere. Duodenum, jejunum, ileum, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is not discriminate about which part of the small intestine it's going to reside in. It's just going to go and reside where it is most opportunistic for it to do that at so when you administer glucose, glucose is absorbed orally in the first three to six feet of the small bowel. Well, what about the other 13 to 16 feet there? So this tells you immediately that, just based on the anatomy, we have a problem your duodenal aspirates. Remember, this is looking at the invasive testing that we're talking about here. They're typically only going to get the upper the proximal two feet of the small intestine. So now you've got 17 feet that are unaccounted for. I would say most of them are probably working in the initial one foot of the small intestine. And when you rely on glucose breath testing alone to make a diagnosis of SIBO, you'll provide a low yield of about 33% so it there just really is not any good solid correlation with breath testing. So that means that we have to think beyond that, and that means that we can use, again, the symptoms. We can use other testing. We can use standard chemistries and blood counts to get that information. So look at it, looking at unraveling this controversy with the small intestine. So notice this summary as a first step to precisely characterize the potential link between SIBO and various disorders, we need to address the methodological limitations of available traditional tests for diagnosing SIBO. So if anything I've said to you up to this point tonight, you just like, Yeah, this guy's just, he's just on a rant. He's just on his soapbox. And, you know, he's just, he's got an opinion. Well, this is not my opinion, right? This is the literature that is validating everything I just brought you up to. So what about the traditional labs? So these are ones. These are labs that all of us are looking at, right? This is many times, just the first way that we're connecting with that patient from a laboratory perspective. So if you're seeing the megaloblastic anemia, an iron deficiency anemia, so you can go macro or micro, acidic here if you're dealing with fat soluble vitamin deficiencies, remember stead area is a problem. So we would likely expect that vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, would be affected. And I'll actually also add to this that vitamin K can be affected here too, simply because in a dysbiotic scenario, your vitamin K production is not going to be as robust from your commensal bacteria. B 12 deficiency. That's both because of a malabsorption and decreased production. You've got hypoalbunamia. In fact, let me back up to the B 12 deficiency for a minute. Some of you may be familiar with a scenario known as intestinal methanogen overgrowth. It's something that is the methanogens are many times the methane producers that we're really looking at here, and with these organisms, they actually don't generate a B 12 deficiency. So if you do see a B 12 deficiency, think more SIBO. If a patient's symptomatic, but they don't have a B 12 deficiency, it's probably more intestinal methanogen overgrowth, your hypoabinemia I mentioned a little earlier, elevated C reactive protein, AST, right? And so looking at those hepatic enzymes, hyperlipidemia, and then, of course, the nutrient deficiencies. Now this is a a snippet that I took out of a stool test, and I wanted to show you a couple of things on this. So the first is, which of which is that on the left side of this slide, these are the organisms that are more generally associated with overgrowth in the small intestine. So strep, Staph, bacteroides, lactobacillus, strechia, Klebsiella Proteus genre. And notice on this particular patient, you see that the Bacteroidetes, or the bacteroides is elevated there streak, yeah. Lactobacillus species are starting to creep up, even if you just look at the commensal species, and you drew a line down the middle of that commensal species section, and you just looked at, where are the predominance of species? Are they on the lower side or the higher side? They're on the higher side. That's a red flag. And then you get down to the staph and the strep, and you see that these are elevated. And again, many times when you see elevations of staph and strep, because those are organisms that are inherently unique to our respiratory system, that's typically a lot of times where they're more likely to be located at not exclusively, but when those are being swallowed again, they should normally be killed off, and if they're not, if they're not, at least reduced in number below threshold, then you're going to see that those levels are going to start to elevate, and that can be an indication of some digestive secretion imbalances. Now, as far as the which one does someone have, right? So there's some overlap here, but if you're trying to define dysbiosis, there's really four characterizations for dysbiosis. It can be small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, which we're talking about here tonight. There's large intestinal bacterial overgrowth, and I will tell you with this one, this one has not been as clearly defined simply because we know that there is such a large quantity of organisms in the large intestine. So that's the reason we don't have as clear of a understanding around this as we will at some point in the future, small intestinal fungal overgrowth. This is what's known as seafood. So seafood is a very real thing here. Typically candidat is the organism that we're thinking about with this, but it can be other forms of of fungus as well. And then I mentioned the intestinal methanogen overgrowth, what is often just abbreviated, IMO, IMO, some of your extra intestinal associations here. These are things that have really strong linkages to two Sibos. So irritable bowel syndrome, that's the one that has the 75% linkage associated with it. Inflammatory Bowel syndrome, also right in there, celiac disease, hepatic dysfunction. This is going to have an effect with what's known as the gut hepatic axis. So remember, the most well known axis is the gut brain axis, but there's literally, and this is many of these are just well stated in the literature. Now there's an axis related to the gut for almost everything, the the gut endocrine axis, the gut bone axis. I mean, the list goes on and on with that. So the gut hepatic axis, if you have a patient that has SIBO, that patient in Tom, especially if that patient is struggling, struggling with metabolic issues as well, if that patient doesn't get that under control, it's just a ticking time bomb, until their liver starts really feeling the effects of that heart failure, even right, not even just cardiovascular disease, but just outright heart failure, diabetes, scleroderma. So we see that with the skin manifestations, eczema, psoriasis, they also fall into this category, this conversation as well, Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease is absolutely one if you're dealing with patients with neurodegenerative dysfunction, this is definitely one you've got to put on the radar, because what happens here? This is a vicious cycle where the SIBO exacerbates the parkinsonianism, but the impact on the dopamine and the damage to the substantia nigra is also going to affect the motility of the bowels, and so as the bowel motility slows down, the likelihood of further manifestation of SIBO is going to be higher. So again, it's this vicious cycle, this loop that we're looking at here, your hypothyroidism being a factor, and then restless leg syndrome in cases where patients have had ongoing, recurrent iron deficiencies, recalcitrant iron deficiencies that just don't seem to revolve or resolve. Restless Leg Syndrome, for less Restless Leg Syndrome, looking for SIBO could be one of the things that that patient is dealing with on an ongoing basis, that is setting the stage for the ongoing iron deficiency, but that is also exacerbating the inflammatory responses and starting to affect the neurological tissue. So that's the whole lipopolysaccharide conversation that we get into there. If you look at just the stress response, you know stress is sort of a big word there, very all encompassing word. What I would suggest, in thinking about stress is what is, what is actually happening when someone shifts from more of a para parasympathetic model over to a sympathetic model. And we know that when this happens, that there's neurologically, there's going to be alterations in the gastrointestinal motility. A lot of this is a byproduct of the fact that you don't get good, consistent stimulation down through the vagal nerve. There's going to be an increase in visceral perception in the abdominal area. You don't have pain receptors there, but you do begin to perceive that, for example, with stretch so for example, if someone's dealing with distinction increasing gas production, that they're going to feel that pressure, they're going to notice that it's going to be uncomfortable for them. The sympathetic profile is not going to have good gastric secretions. Again, I'll just reiterate that that's a vagal nerve response that we're looking at there that's under the underlying factor there the increase in intestinal permeability. So you literally see that those gap junctions become less functional in terms of the negative effects on the regenerative capacity, because you're not getting a consistent supply of blood flow into the enteric region, then you're not going to see rehabilitation as quick as what you otherwise should see. And then also that mucus layer begins to thin out. You have there's, there's what's known as an inner mucus layer and an outer mucus layer. And you really don't want things breaching that inner mucus layer, that's the one that is adjacent to the intestinal lining, to the enterocytes, and so if you breach, if these organisms breach that, that inner mucus layer, they should get trapped in the outer mucus layer. But if they breach the inner mucus layer, that's a real problem, because now those

Unknown Speaker  48:57
organisms are crossing over into the blood, and they've got to be dealt with you're you've got to have your immune system be able to recognize those, phagocytize those, and deal with those. And then lastly, here you can see just negative effects on the intestinal microbiota. There is a direct relationship in terms of the the nerve endings and the microbiota feeding information into the nerves, or into the nervous system, through those nerve endings, and then also the nervous system, feeding information back out to the microbiota. Just to give you context of how significant this is and how fast this takes place if you're in a room temperature building, and you walk outside into a below zero, or not below zero, but a below freezing environment, so let's just say a cold environment, because that's all it really takes here. If you go into that cold environment, it has been documented that there is a shift in the microbiota in that short period of time, and so what they are doing is perceiving the external environment, and as a result of that, they're changing their characterization and activity based on that environmental exposure. And if you think about multiplying that over time, for individuals that live in this chronic stress response, these individuals are just they're going to be living in a recurrent SIBO profile. Now there is a forgotten characterization for SIBO, and it really comes down to and let me go through these with you, bloating, distension, flatulence, abdominal discomfort, diarrhea, weight loss and those. All those are all the ones that we've talked about and all the ones that you know like the back of your hand. But notice this one significant micronutrient deficiencies. So this is why I said earlier, you have to look at SIBO as a three stage process. Deal with the overgrowth through antimicrobials. However, you prefer to tackle that, deal with the reduction in gastric secretions and motility, which set the stage for it. And then you must also deal with the collateral damage, which are these micronutrient deficiencies. You'll probably deal with some macronutrient deficiencies in there too, especially protein. But the micronutrients are the ones that need to be corrected first. And the reason in part that these are so important, besides the obvious, is that the availability of these micronutrients literally changes the profile of the commensal species. So for example, if you were to go cross reference vitamin A with dysbiosis, what you will find is that vitamin A deficiencies predispose to dysbiosis, right? Not a prebiotic fiber, not a short chain fatty acid, not a probiotic vitamins predisposed to dysbiosis. So that just underscores how important these nutrients are. So look at this. This is showing you how this manifests. So notice what I have highlighted here, competition between the bacteria and the human host for ingested nutrients. These organisms that are over growing in the small intestine are robbing you. They are literally thieves that are taking the nutrients that you should be utilizing, and they are using them for themselves. That's what's happening here. And so that's why you end up with the B 12, the vitamin A, D, E deficiencies, the minerals like iron, calcium, selenium, zinc, are in this conversation as well. That's the reason that these deficiencies manifest, these micro organ, these overgrowth, these dysbiotic organisms. Remember, they have metabolic needs too, and so they're going to take from you to continue to support themselves. And let's continue this story, because this starts to get us into now the underlying causes. So you can see here, hypochlorhydria in atrophic gastritis results in bacterial overgrowth of the stomach and small intestine, and these bacteria may bind B 12 for their own use. Very black and white statement there. But what you want to note about this, and this is why I said that the aging population is at risk for this, is that atrophic gastritis, right? So you have atrophy of the parietal cells, the cells that are producing the hydrochloric acid. And as a result of that, the environment changes, and now you've got species growing that otherwise shouldn't be growing in that environment. So let's connect a few other nutrients here. These are just going to be a few snippets for us, but notice on the top study, we've got vitamin D vitamin D deficiency. We all know how prevalent vitamin D deficiencies are, and I'm not saying that every vitamin D deficiency is related to SIBO, but I'm saying it should be in your list of things that you're looking for or thinking about, especially if there's associated symptoms malnutrition in older individuals, individuals that have had any type of gastric procedure. You're changing the digestive dynamics in the upper intestines in the stomach, upper intestines there. And as a result of that, you're going to see SIBO. In fact, this is what I'll tell you about when it comes to individuals that have had a gastric procedure. I generally want to my typical strategy for SIBO is to put someone on an anti microbial, deal with the overgrowth, and then let's move on. Let's get them off of the antimicrobial and move on to correcting the rest. Correcting the rest of the issue. When it comes to individuals that have had gastric procedures, many of these individuals have to stay on an ongoing course of a low dose antimicrobial, otherwise, because those digestive dynamics are so disrupted, they're at risk for a relapse here in a pretty short time frame on this thiamin deficiencies, but really, any B vitamin deficiency can be associated with SIBO, looking beyond the vitamins here, getting into some other nutrients. So your calcium, your phosphorus, all your fat solubles are going to be a factor here. So that's really what I would think about with this.

Unknown Speaker  55:02
So the goal treat once. Remember this, relapses are notorious. Half, half of the patients out there are going to relapse within nine months. So we want to treat once and not have to keep going back through this. I remember that. I can remember in my head the very first patient that I ever saw for SIBO, at the time she was in her she was 3334 and she had she was a hypothyroid patient, but she had been to two practitioners before me that had both set up very effective SIBO protocols, but they were focused on the antimicrobial phase, so they did a Great job with the antimicrobial work, and she was asymptomatic for I think she was more like in a six month time frame is when she would relapse, but she relapsed, and it was just the same repeat story there. So we want to redefine the goal here. So remember, the primary goal of SIBO treatment is to eradicate those organisms initially, but further treatment goals are to maintain remission, prevent possible recurrences, and correct any nutritional and vitamin deficiencies. So that last few, those last few words there, are pretty important, because even the literature says that that is what you need to be doing. You have to correct those things. You can't overlook that part of the process. And you really don't want to just shotgun this. You really want to be dialed in in terms of what that need is and how to how to fix this. So unlike the colon, the human small intestine is typically an inhospitable environment for bacteria to grow and flourish. So we need to acknowledge, if it's an inhospitable environment, then something must be going wrong here. So we need to think about our normal fasting and feed motility. This is not to suggest that an individual has to fast. It's just that there needs to be period of not eating. If you have a person who is a grazer by nature, they're they're sort of grazing and nibbling on things throughout the day. That's not a good eating strategy for SIBO, because you're inhibiting some of the natural neurological activity in the enteric nervous system to promote that natural peristaltic motility. That is, if that person's constantly eating, they're shutting that down the secretion of gastric acid. So your hydrochloric acid, your pancreatic biliary secretion, so this is your pancreatic enzymes and your bile, your structural barriers. Remember I said that ileocecal valve needs to be competent. It needs to be strong enough to prevent the contents of the small intestine, or to allow those contents in the small intestine to move into the large intestine, but not allow it to back flush an intact gut immune system and then just our commensal bacteria, well, they need to serve their role as well. So here's our safety net. We we want to look at our gastrointestinal antimicrobial defense mechanisms. Okay, we want to think about our motility, and then we just want to look at the general anatomy in the GI tract and SIBO ends up being present when some of these are being overwhelmed, meaning that there's just too much stress being put on any one of these three, or a combination, if any of these are insufficient or just outright absent, that's also going to set the stage. And so when we look at these antimicrobial defense mechanisms. This is where we need to connect with the production of hydrochloric acid. Maybe that patient needs to have that repleted. We need to think about the pancreatic enzyme secretion, our our protease, amylase, lipase, and because these one of the things it's not generally recognized about pancreatic enzymes. It is more so recognized about bile and hydrochloric acid, pancreatic enzymes equally have anti microbial activity. So they are not simply there to have an enzymatic effect on food. They are also there to have an enzymatic effect on microbes. And then you've got your mucosal immunity. So this is looking at immunoglobulin A secretion, and your immunoglobulin A secretion. This is another one. I'll just make this connection for you. If you look at vitamin A and then look at the effect that that has on Secretory IgA, your secretory immunoglobulin A, you will see a massive amount of information of how relevant vitamin A is in that process. So again, it's a nutrient that you've got to have in that environment. Motility. This is going to impair small intestinal clearance. This is what's known as your absence of your Phase Three migratory motor complex. Your migratory motor complex is just really a pretty fancy way of saying peristalsis. It's that movement from the proximal to to the distal colon. So just things moving more distally, is what we're talking about there. You need that natural sweeping motion. And if someone's not giving at least an hour or hour and a half to two hours between meals then or between feedings, they're shutting that down primary visceral neuropathy, myopathy, if there's some direct damage into that area that's going to affect it. And then remember, medications are going to have effects here, too. And then, of course, the anatomy, the cert, the surgical alterations, are the one that I would really focus on right there. Your transit time. Transit time is delayed in small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, they're just not clearing content out of the small intestines as quickly as they should. So any type of delay here is going to further set the stage. You'll notice this most of the time. I wouldn't recommend necessarily getting into doing a lot of specific testing around this. The easy way is just how many bowel movements does someone having in a day? Early.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:45
Sorry,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:50
sorry, I went to, I went to put somebody in, and they got kicked off. Sorry about that. No worries. No worries. Let's see here. Okay, so in regards to the fasting, this is really the migratory motor complex. So the thing I want you to see in this is serotonin has a role to play with this as well. So this is where making sure that the serotonin receptors are active, things like ginger do a good job of supporting that, even if someone needs a little bit of five HTP support, sometimes that can be a benefit in a SIBO patient, specifically because of the impact that it has through the vagal nerve on these serotonin receptors, hypochlorhydria. So notice on this that you've it sets the stage for dysbiosis. That's really what I wanted to illustrate with this data is that the the patient who has hypochlorhydria, you should just anticipate that that patient is going to be dysbiotic within a given amount of time. Now, H Pylori, okay, so a couple of things to note about h pylori. So h pylori, first of all, can be associated with both hyper and hypochlorhydria. And in the early stages, you'll typically see that it's a hypochlorhydric presentation, and then as the overgrowth, or as the infection, it would be an infection. In this scenario, as that infection lingers, the patient tends to maybe swing towards a hyperchlorohydria, or some patients just stay hypochlorhydric. Either way with this, what is happening is that, if this is related to h pylori, that h pylori is, in and of itself, creating direct damage through what are known as virulence factors. It is having some impact on production of lipopolysaccharides, so it's increasing the cytokine responses, the inflammatory cascades. And then the other thing that happens here is that, because it is exacerbating the the hypochlorhydric state, now it's opened the door for the manifestation of SIBO. And this is why a lot of times that you'll see h pylori and SIBO, well, they run together. They tend to be present at the same time. Now a a well designed anti microbial strategy, most of the time, will deal with h pylori at the same time that it deals with SIBO. And so that's a real advantage in this, and that you're not having to treat the H Pylori and then treat the SIBO. I actually don't recommend doing that. You can do it all in in one, one quick sweep. But notice on this, and you'll see gastrin in here is a hormone that you could actually look at. But notice on this is that the h pylori infection causes changes to the intestinal flora, such as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, and increases gastric acid secretion, stimulating gastrointestinal hormones. So basically, what that's saying is that, yes, it increases the probability for SIBO, but it's also going to increase gastrin production, because the body's releasing gastrin to try to make more hydrochloric acid, and so when there's the presence of h pylori, that output has been damaged, your pancreatic exocrine sufficiency. What I'll tell you on this is when you look at a patient with low hydrochloric acid, because hydrochloric acid stimulates the release of cholecystokinin, and then cholecystokinin, in turn, supports the release of the pancreatic enzymes. If you don't have adequate hydrochloric acid, you don't have adequate enzymatic pancreatic enzymatic production either, and so those two just travel together, and it's generally best just to go ahead and treat those at the same time. What about bile acids? Bile acids are certainly going to have an anti microbial effect. They're very efficient compounds at being able to offset overgrowth. And it's you know, if you've got a patient with fat in the stool, their stools are floating. This is probably a pretty good indication that replacing their bile acids, using some ox bile to correct that, can be advantageous as well. And you may also want to use things in there, like taurine, choline, things that are going to increase the production of the bile acids, those can also be a benefit as well. Elio sequel valve. Main thing on this is you'll notice that this is associated dysfunction in the Elio sequel valve, because of allowing that ability to back flush into the small intestine, and that Valve not staying competent, this is going to be a factor in SIBO as well. And then the gut immune linkage here, this. This is a byproduct of the vagal nerve not functioning well. And so when the vagal nerve is not as responsive as what it should be, the vagal nerve has a high acetylcholine demand, and acetylcholine is directly anti inflammatory. And so when that nerve is not firing at the rate that it should be, there's not the utilization of acetylcholine in in most scenarios, you're going to see that the inflammatory Cascades are going to go up. So you know, this is this particular study noted interleukin six, but interleukin six has also been shown to correlate with C reactive protein. So if C reactive protein is elevated, you can assume that this inflammatory cascade has been activated.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:34
Meta analysis on this so therefore the present findings indicated that probiotic supplementation could effectively decontaminate SIBO, decrease hydrogen concentration and relieve abdominal pain, but were ineffective in preventing SIBO. So I want you to think about what this is saying. Let me reframe this. What this is illustrating is that probiotics, as it relates to SIBO are not a preventative. They are not meant to be used on an ongoing basis to try to offset the development of SIBO, what they are good at doing is being a direct intervention, more of an acute model. So if you want to use them to correct the situation, they're good at doing that, but not as a preventative in terms of antibiotics. What I'll share with you on this is that the probiotics can, in some situations, be very comparable. But what I would also say here is that use them as an adjunct lactobacillus plantarum. If you look at the collective of studies that we have right now, lactobacillus plantarum is the organism that I would lean on the most here, it's the it's the bacteria that has been shown to be most beneficial, and then when it comes to your probiotics, again, more is not better be very targeted with this. In fact, what a lot of these studies show is that actually using a low dose is more advantageous than using a high dose, and

Unknown Speaker  1:08:03
then the one that I would truly steer you towards is saccharomyces boulardii. Saccharomyces boulardii is has been shown to be effective with metronidazole. When it's looked at in comparison to metronidazole, it was actually shown to be more effective than the drug itself in this particular study. So again, if you're using it really any antimicrobial, my personal preference would be to tell you to use this as a probiotic strategy. And within three to five days after you take a dose of saccharomyces boulardii, it has left the body. It's not an organism that develops colonies and sticks around. Okay, so we're getting close here, guys. So in terms of your antimicrobial strategy, generally, one antimicrobial is not going to be as effective as a combination, and that just becomes a bit of a logical concept here, but the data does bear that out. So just be mindful that you're generally better having combinations, even if you're using a pharmaceutical to address this, having some a like some olive oregano, some Berberine, some other anti microbial compounds can be advantageous here, for sure, in terms of some of the challenges with the existing treatments, antibiotics are going to give you the side effects, so there is that risk. They do have a high recurrence rate and generally, generally, multiple rounds are necessary. Now, that may be because of incomplete management overall, not necessarily directly. The antibiotic problem in terms of nutritional interventions, there's variations in effectiveness here, probably because of, again, of a shotgun approach, many of the things that are recommended for SIBO just don't have any data behind them. They're just, you're just not going to go to PubMed and find anything, and they just haven't been clinically studied. Lifestyle changes, I've mentioned a few here, having patients de stress, whatever that really means for each individual patient. That's not easy. So you know, patients may look at some dietary changes as restrictive, depending on who you're, who you're requesting that of. So your complete SEMO treatment plan for month one really test as you need, but I would recommend doing an anti microbial approach, using a broad spectrum stat strategy, not leaning on any one thing to do that, but having a multitude of antimicrobials to be effective. Here, in terms of your recurrence, you want to identify any motility issues and gastric secretions that need to be addressed, and then you want to correct the nutrient deficiencies, and I generally would recommend correcting nutrient deficiencies for at least six months and the but the rationale for that is that that allows an adequate amount of time for those nutrients to be built back up into the lymphocytes, and therefore the patient's not going to revert back into a nutrient deficiency in A short time frame if they discontinue that supplementation. So some of your takeaways here is SIBO, the cause or the result of the associated condition. Sometimes it can be both. There's generally a bi directional relationship with a lot of conditions out there, and if we understand what the limitations are with our current treatment interventions with the diagnostics that we have available to us, and we correlate that with our other findings. Think through how we want to set up that anti microbial phase, and then follow that up with with addressing the underlying causes and the nutrient deficiencies. You'll be successful with SIBO, and you'll start finding that you'll have patients showing up at your door that have had failures elsewhere, and you'll be successful with them, and it's just because you checked all the boxes in the process, is really all it comes down to. So with that, I'll say thank you. Wow. Great. Thank you so much. Sure, right? Rather, rather osteopathic lecture. There, find it, fix it, leave it alone, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:09
Some few comments in the chat.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:16
How are IBS, IBD and celiac, extra, intestinal, since they deal with the intestines. So they're, they're not, they are. They're obviously intestinal conditions. The point is that those are not directly SIBO, but they are conditions related to SIBO. Okay, any comments on fusobacterium and prev Prevotella that shows up on stool tests. Dr ace bato says, I always tell him to go see a biological dentist. Yeah, apparently, maybe doc knows something there that I don't know I could. Sounds like I could learn something from him on that the fusobacterium, I don't have any comments on Prevotella. A lot of times, I will follow up and ask questions in regards to the carbohydrate intake for patients. And that doesn't necessarily mean that they have a bad or high refined food intake. Sometimes it just means that they're consuming increased fiber in their diet. Those types of things will push Prevotella levels up as well. Just to add to that that I think Dr Eric was pertaining to how prominent these organisms are in the oral microbiome. These are they're also natural bacteria living in there, but yeah, when you see this, you definitely want to open that mouth of the patient just to smell the breath. Halitosis is present, and even periodontal diseases. So but it can also be present in other areas of the of the body, like lungs and also female reproductive system. But yes, it's a congestive connection from a stool test. You know, it's coming from upstairs. And as we all know, there's a lot of connections with oral infections with systemic problems. And I'll just add one other quick thing to that, and that is to say we talked about h pylori tonight. The oral cavity is the second most predominant location for h pylori. So if you've got a h pylori that continues to manifest, you probably want to look in the oral cavity. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:14:22
you again. Dr acevado, SIBO and leaky gut management are difficult. If the patient is on chemotherapy, that's that's not really a question, but any, any, any thoughts on that, do the best you can. Give them glutamine. That's a tough one. Best. What is the best test for ileocecal valve function? I don't know of a specific test for that. That's really more of a research assessment at this stage. I don't know anything that's being done commercially or clinically for that. It's really the only thing too on the intervention side that I can tell you, is to do ileocecal valve massage, to massage that area. That's the only treatment intervention that I've come across in the literature as well. Okay, any comments on the use of postbiotics for SIBO? We had Ross Pelton on a few months ago, and he's a big proponent of postbiotics. So yeah, there's certainly a role there for butyrate as a postbiotic. I would say that's of the ones that I'm familiar with. That's probably the only one that I can immediately associate to what I've read around SIBO, but certainly there's a role to play there. Okay, that's all the comments I have in the chat. You got anything? Dr nariel, yeah, so great talk. Dr Arlen, one thing that again, this is for my own personal interest. So you mentioned about probiotics, right? So one of the common things that I hear clinically is when you use probiotics on a SIBO patient, it's almost like a diagnostic clue that if they do react to a probiotic once they get distension or abdominal pain, it's kind of like a sign that you might consider SIBO, and you did mention about probiotics being helpful, especially Saccharomyces and also Plantarum. But is that still holding true in in terms of your experience? So I think to answer your question, it comes down to when, when someone uses a probiotic and the patient becomes symptomatic around that it, it, there's a couple of questions we have to ask. One is, what species are being delivered? And then at what quantity are you delivering those species? And so the reason I present it back that way is because the benefit behind introducing those probiotics is really they need to be very targeted, which is why I mentioned the lactobacillus plantarum. So if you're introducing an acidophilus or any of the other species, there's there's probably going to be, not the outcome we're looking for here, right? Because we just don't see that those, those tend to have the same effect. And there's always been this mindset that more is better when it comes to probiotics, and that's really not the case. In fact, the more recent applications for probiotics actually show that a very targeted approach, very specific organisms, strain specific organisms geared towards a specific application at a low dose are more effective by far.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:42
And is that the same comment also for fermented food, meaning you're not using supplements, is that the same? Can you apply that same concept as well? You know, I generally take patients off of fermented foods if this is something that they're dealing with, just to reduce the variable, because in that context, I don't really know what they're introducing. I mean, granted, we know that there's lactobacillus organisms there, but in terms of quantities, you know, how is the ferment done? You just have all these variables that you just can't account for. So to me, it's just been easier to eliminate that right? One of the more famous dietary approaches for SIBO would be FODMAPs. So and FODMAPs, this is very, very restrictive type of diet, and we, we all know this, and this is something that, again, it can be helpful. But as you know, applying FODMAPs in a healthier patient actually causes this bios. So that was something that, I guess I wanted to ask you, how, in terms of, have you done that with patients? Or is that something that you favor? No, I'm not in favor of the FODMAPs diet at all. I matter of fact, I'm very much against the FODMAPs diet, I think you end up giving up things that are very advantageous to addressing the dysbiotic profile. So for example, when just in terms of some of the things that you end up eliminating here, so as far as some of the oligosaccharides, so we know that those are going to promote some of the pre and post biotic activity. And so that's going to change the commensal profile. You end up, if you take out the fructose, well, then you're in, you're taking away all those polyphenols that are directly changing and shifting, having antimicrobial activity. You also end up taking out the some of the disaccharides, lactose being the most acknowledged here, and when I say lactose on this, I want to be very specific that anything I say around dairy is coming from a raw dairy source. But raw dairy, hands down, is one of the most important, one of the most important foods that someone could consume to shift their microbial balance and stimulate their immune system. And so literally, those are all the things that we talk about and try to resolve with SIBO. And so when you introduce a FODMAPs diet, you're working against all of that. And the other thing that's noteworthy on this is that the literature clearly states this, and the literature also clearly states that if a FODMAP diet doesn't work in the first six weeks, then there's really no reason to use it. And it's not a SIBO diet. It's an IBS diet. It's never been intended for SIBO.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:32
Another one would be so you mentioned about the CO I guess, relationship of h pylori and basically dysbiosis. The the strategy here would be, which one do you want to approach? First, h pylori or the dysbiosis? Because you did mention that a best, the best anti microbial approach would be combining an anti microbial that disposes of everything. And also another follow up question with that was, can you do you want to combine the herbs before the antibiotics, or you both, you do all of them together. What is your strategy? So I don't separate the dysbiosis of h pylori and the dysbiosis in the small intestine. In terms of when I start to implement an antimicrobial strategy, I look at it with the patient as I'm going to set the initial protocol at 30 days, and I'm gonna, I'm going to run a 30 day protocol with that individual to address both of those unless somewhere in that 30 days, that patient comes back to me and says, I'm struggling somewhere. Most of the time that doesn't happen. Once in a while it does, but most of the time it doesn't. And I don't use any pharmaceuticals to deal with this, so I use 100% botanicals, but I'll take you back to the study that I mentioned that showed that a combination of interventions is more effective than a single intervention. And so typically, I'm using, I think, if I remember, my typical strategy, combines about 18 different antimicrobials, and it's a heavy hit to those, to those organisms you're pertaining to naturals, right? Like correct, right, right. Okay, there's a, I think you mentioned there. I think this is just a clarification when you mentioned about what low vitamin K, you want to correct that, like, what was the specific, I guess, statement that you made, the endogenous production of Vitamin K is affected, is what I was referencing there. Okay, alright, about, how did you mention about hydrogen sulfate? So fight because you did mention about methane and also a hydrogen so that's kind of like another one that we've been hearing about with the with the newer testing for hydrogen breath tests. Is that something that's prominent in your practice, or is that something that you counter a lot more? So I don't look, I don't, I don't do breath testing because of the rationale that I mentioned. So again, when I look at these and I look at the utilization of the hydrogen, hydrogen has a beneficial role. So most likely what you're seeing are the negative effects associated with the methane producing organisms. I'm not saying to totally discount that, but there's just what we've based the opinion on for targeting these hydrogen based organisms is just not good data,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:33
right? Another one here, Rifaximin is very expensive. I mean, I don't know if you deal with insurance. Is there a way on how insurance can be covered for this? I don't know if you can answer that part. I have a cash practice. I don't have any way of answering that. Okay, so you say, if you use Rifaximin, do you make them pay out of pocket for it? Or Or you don't use rarefax admin at all. I don't use her fax man at all. I'm a chiropractor. I don't have prescriptive capabilities, okay, all right. And then also, as part of the I guess you did answer this one, you did answer that one, and you did the concept behind ileocecal valve massage, as you said, What is the rationale why you promote that? So I'm just reporting on that one. It's not something that I tell patients to do. I don't have any direct acknowledgement with that one. I just wanted to acknowledge that the literature does say that that is a problem, and the only intervention that I'm aware of is ileocecal valve massage. There may be other interventions out there. It's just not something I've come across or I'm aware of, right? Okay, what is your approaches when you see high IG, Secretory IgA on your stool? Tests so that's going to be an immune activation. So we've got to figure out what's causing that. A lot of times, dysbiosis will cause that. If there's some other environmental trigger that the immune system is targeting that'll accelerate the activity of the IGA, the secretory IgA, but it's some it's it's immune activation. Is how you have to think about it. You just gotta figure out what's causing the immune activation, right? So majority of this really is dietary related. So what's what you're putting in the gut lumen revs up that immune system. So that's where elimination diet, again, food sensitivity testing comes into play. This one, I think you already explained. Why does ASD go up? You mentioned about the gut liver connection. Is that correct? Or is there more that you want to add to that? That's really what it comes down to. It's a byproduct of those lipopolysaccharides are exacerbating the inflammatory cascades, and the livers fill in the effects of it. All, right,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:07
I think that's it. Dr Bill, we got it all, but there's some more in the Yeah, I got a couple more here. You got, what about a carnivore diet for SIBO? Um,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:21
this is interesting. It can be helpful. I don't know that it's mandatory, but it can be a strategy. The only thing that I will tell you on this that you have to be conscientious of is, and I tend to be much more of an animal based diet myself. So just understand where I'm coming from in delivering this information, if you cut those carbohydrates out for too long a period of time, you're going to, over time, start increasing the sympathetic responses. So you're going to increase cortisol production, you're going to increase the catecholamine activity, and those are triggering those sympathetic responses. And we talked about how those are all antagonistic towards SIBO. So I would just be mindful about how long you're going to keep those carbohydrates out. It may be completely fine in the initial stages to do a full on carnivore diet, and some people can do it on an ongoing basis. I just find that most people do better bringing some quality carbohydrates back in.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:21
Okay, and then when do you start giving probiotics? Should it begin with Saccharomyces and then wait a month to give the probiotics? When is the timing? So there's no exact right or wrong on this. My preference is to do it at the end of the antimicrobial phase. So if I'm using 30 days as my antimicrobial phase, on day 31 I'm going to start with the Saccharomyces, and based on the if the patient's doing well, they're responding to the interventions that I'm using with them, I probably will only run the Saccharomyces. I may not even get into doing a lactobacillus plantarum. And I may do that for for 30 days, and that may be completely the end of that if the patient is still showing a little bit of symptomatology or has a propensity to show me that they're going to relapse pretty easy, I may adjust my decision making on that, but I don't. I think the point here is that I don't keep them on that for an extended period of time. Okay, you may have covered this, that if they do have a relapse, do you use different anti microbials and different probiotics, or do we decide, well, maybe we just didn't treat them long enough. Yeah. So it depends on the patient presentation on this, so I would say if the patient executed the protocol that I laid out for them, and they did a good job of that, and then they relapsed then, and I need to go in with a second antimicrobial protocol. I'm going to change it up if I feel like the patient was not as comprehensive as what I had laid out for them. I'll probably redo the original protocol with them, and really double down on the digestive secretions and motility as they're coming out of that. Okay, okay, that's everything I have here. Anything else dark scenario? No, I think. Dr Hill, you still have some slides after we turn off the right you have some promotion, because we're curious about this 30 day protocol. Of course, we definitely want to use this clinically. Thank you so much, Dr Hill and everybody, and we'll be back again next week, same time, same station. Thank you all right, yeah, just go

Unknown Speaker  1:29:38
ahead and show them to you now. Yep, we're good, okay, which is just for the CME sake, we kind of turned you off as we like sent, sent you out, but you can now promote, yeah. Now you can promote, yeah. So when you guys have asked me what I do during this 30 days, this is exactly what I'm doing, and the reason that I'm doing it is based on this study. So at this study specifically, this was a John Hopkins study that was performed back in 2014 but they specifically looked at the Rifaximin they had a Rifaximin group, and then they had a botanical intervention group, and there were four different botanical combinations that were used. Two of the ones that were used in this study are the ones that I use the FC side of and the dysbioside. Hang on to that thought. I'll tell you a little bit more about that. They come as a part of this kit that you see right here, this SBO kit. So what we looked at at biotics research over time was getting feedback is that practitioners were adding in the ADP. ADP is an emulsified olive oregano, so it it in and of itself, in some of your sort of lesser overgrowth profiles, where the SIBO presentation is not that severe, I will tell you that ADP, by itself, will be a product that can control that for those patients that I mentioned, the gastric patients, ADP is a product I put them on because olive oregano is safe, and this is an emulsified form, so I don't need to give them a high dose. And it's effective very It's very effective. But for patients, typically, like we've been talking about tonight, this kit delivers all three of these anti microbials, these combinations. You can see what's in here. You guys asked me some of the ones that I use, the Ola, oregano, tarragon, stinging nettle, poi de arco, you know, Wormwood, Yarrow, that deal. Deal has a, you know, we don't really talk about deal, but deal is very anti microbial those are all available, available in this kit. And it's a 30 day protocol, and it's an exact amount of tablets or capsules, depending on the product in this kit for that 30 days. So when they start on day one, they'll have the exact amount to get to day 30. And we just run this with them. And we've been doing this now within biotics, you know, with customers for, I mean, probably a year and a half at this point. And feedback is good on this, and it's very effective, and we would anticipate it to be based on what we saw in that study. That study that I mentioned, that we use as a backdrop for this, had a very high participant count compared to sometimes what you see with studies like this, especially using a botanical combination. So this is the product that I use. But the thing that I would tell you about this as it relates to SIBO and just dealing with patients, the compliance on this is so easy because the patient, literally, you guys have all seen this. You make a recommendation for three things, and the patient sees, I've got to take one product, two, product, three, product, and instead, you just present this kit to them, and they're like, I just need to do this one kit. Yeah, just do this one kit for 30 days. That's all I need you to do. And so your compliance is improved in this as well. And there is a little guidebook in this. That guidebook is based on a lot of the things that I've shared tonight, some general dietary recommendations to give them. They're not FODMAP oriented, so and you can, they're laid out in a way. If you have specifics around how you recommend dietary modification during a SIBO protocol, you can, you can manipulate it to to your strategy. So do you also use this for the h pylori infection? I do. So when I told you I use that combination, this is exactly what I use. So I don't do I just give them this kit if I have h pylori at the same time as SIBO. There is nothing that I'm layering on top of this to deal with the H Pylori, and this has consistently been able to resolve both of them. And also, when you mentioned about 30 days you we you mentioned about the relapse of this of SIBO, meaning, do you still see relapse? You need to repeat this protocol for patients. Okay, so that that really is to the gist of what I've been talking about tonight, right? So this is, to me, just step one. We still have to do step two and step three behind this. Just to give you perspective on that, in terms of what we're doing at biotics research, we are in the process of getting ready to launch what's called a phase two kit that deals with the motility and the digestive secretion. So literally, practitioners can do this kit that you see on the screen here for 30 days, and then they can roll right into that phase two and address that phase two component for nine months. Is the relapse time frame I gave you. So we use that as our general recommendation, but clinical practice will really dictate how long that product's necessary.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:43
Interesting, okay, I'm getting some questions about the contact information for you or or where, or where to find, where to get the the kits. The kits can be found at biotics research.com,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:02
fullscript, has this too, right? Fullscript does have this that is correct. Do you have moments that you you continue step one, then you overlap it with step two, or you really have to finish up with step one first, and you can't overlap with others. Do you have those moments? Yeah, I think the best way, the optimal way, to do this would be to just start what I talked about is phase two, with the digestive secretion support and the Motility Support at the same time on day one, because that's what set the stage for the overgrowth in the first place. So we might as well go ahead and start doing ahead and start dealing with it, but then there's that whole component of patient compliance and really trying to get the patient to follow through on this and not overwhelm them. And so because of that, most of the time I stagger this. Okay, gotcha, yeah, because that's my experience with the the four Rs, it's, uh, it's usually, there's so many overlapping stages that you have to encounter that sometimes you just can't say to the patient that you're done with step one, and now we can just move to this to the next R so usually they kind of overlap. I mean, that's just the nature of the beast, not only for SIBO, but this BIOSIS itself, right? That's right, yeah, yeah. And yeah, this, actually, this is the product that caught my attention, that you can use this as an overall therapy for h pylori and and dysbiosis, because I use a lot of GI maps. And, yeah, a practitioner mentioned this to me. So this kind of really is groundbreaking. You think about it. Yeah, I've been the GI map is a test I use with my patients, and I've used that literally since the inception of that test, and this kit has been very effective, looking at pre and post samples with patients, at being able to resolve the dysbiosis. And you can combine bar Faxon, and for example, patients wants to really get aggressive with this, combine it with this. Yeah, there's that. There's actually, like, I'll use the that ADP, that olive oregano. There's some data out there, if you just look at all of oregano in combination with antibiotics, showing that the combination of the two are more effective than either one in isolation. And so, you know, like you said, if somebody wants to combine this kit with Rifaximin or metronidazole or whatever that strategy is, then they can do that. There's, there's no reason not to do that. Is this mild on the die off. So my experience with this has been that that's a patient, dependent answer, I would say. And I'm I'm really speculating on this number, because I don't have any solid data to reach for. But I would say maybe one out of every 2025 individuals is not going to be able to do this at the do this within a 30 day time frame. So the way that this kit is laid out is it's 2t i D of each of the products in here. And so what I tell patients with this is that if they get into that dosing schedule, and then they find that they start to run into some issues. We just cut the dose in half, so I go to one tid, and we just extend out the duration until they've completed the kit. Okay, interesting.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:35
Yeah, check this out. I think it's definitely worth endorsing to everybody here on the call. Yeah, okay, thank you. Yeah. We like these kids. Kids make it easy. Yeah? They make it easy because, you know, otherwise, we're pulling stuff off the shelves and putting this together and that together and, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:56
So, Okay, anybody else in any any comments or questions? Great talk, great talk. Thank you. How you doing, John? I'm doing very good. Thank you very much. All right, great And okay, so any any summary there, Doctor Hill, make sure you hit all three phases. When it comes to SIBO, that's really where I'll leave it at. That'll address the the potential for relapse. We'll get that second product out so we can definitely hit phase two. Ready, right? Yeah, all the, all the components to it already exist. We just don't have the boxing literally in house yet to put it in a box to deliver it. But all the products exist. What's in the phase two again, phase cricket from biotics catalogs. Yeah, so the products that would get you through Phase Two are called hydrozyme, that's your hydrochloric acid, and enzyme beta plus, that's going to be your ox bile. And then motility Zyme is going to be the Motility Support. And the dosing on that is one of each one of those per meal, per meal. So you three capsules basically every time you eat. That's right. Okay, gotcha. All right. We got we got a preview. Also, those kids, once they come out, are going to be for 90 days. They're set up on three month intervals, and they're the dosing on those is dialed in for that three month time frame. The current bottles as standalones are not dialed in for that 90 day time period.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:49
Okay, all right, okay. Well, great talk as always. Thank you, Dr Dario for arranging this, and Dr Hill for your expertise and knowledge. Thank you for having Dr Hill. That was awesome. Yeah, that was great. And, you know, we always like to say if, if you know, we don't, if we we don't like it, we don't, don't, you know, like I say that nobody ever asked me to help them around the house more than once. So

Unknown Speaker  1:41:26
got it, repainting the house, and I got I got tagged being called the Mad dripper. So, so, so anyway. So thank you so much, and thank you for your expertise and anybody else. Have any comments or questions, have any events coming up, and in any, any conferences, any any talks at all. I know I'm headed to the American Academy of Medical acupuncture at the end of the month in Pittsburgh, of all places, and I'm speaking about and treating hormone insufficiencies and excesses with acupuncture input. So thanks. Which is quite a challenge I have, which was quite a challenge, let me tell you. Doctor Hill, come back for phase two presentation. Yes, yes. Let us know when the phase two is available. So, okay, sounds good, gentlemen, I appreciate that. Alright, yup, thank you so much. Okay, Doctor Bill, I'm going to promote, I'll be in a for M I'll be teaching module one. I'll be at AMM, be at ammg, at the same time. Oh, well, that will be in Florida too. Yeah, in Miami, it's it's the same, it's the same weekend. Oh, nice. Okay, so you're, you're teaching module one, yeah, I'll be doing hormones there. So it's for a for m, uh, anybody who is, I think it's 2023, 20 for the weekend, 23 onwards. I think so. Anybody who's interested. Ammg, I'll be at the trump the rail in Miami. Where you Where are you at? I don't know my hotel yet. There's, they're sending me the details for that. They used to have it at the diplomat. There was that near the beach, right? Yeah, yeah. I think that's where it is. So join us grand the beach. Think I if you can get Joan to let me sneak in.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:27
What day you're doing it? Uh, that'll be the first I'm going to be day one. So I think that's Thursday, Friday. Oh, you're Friday. Okay, so I'm doing Thursday. You can come, come to us on Thursday? Sure. Tit for chat.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:41
I'm doing a general overview of hormone optimization for men on Thursday, the first one, and I always do the last lecture for ammg. And I'm doing the microbiome nice. See, we're spreading the good word. Picked up a few tips tonight. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:44:01
so And John, how are you doing? I'm improving, getting better all the time. So expect to be 100% and by we lost our man, hey, I am going to say we contacted today what's called the eat the National Conservation Training Center. This is the only video production facility in the United States for a lot of things that are federal. This is a place where Martin Sheen lectured, and this is a place where RFK Junior lectured. We contacted them today to see how much it would cost and what would be necessary for us to use that on June on June 1, because we're going to put our East Coast aos rd together June 1, and maybe do a zoom before that to make it easy for everybody. So even if you're not here, you can still partake. So we're working on that. But I thought that was cool, that RFK is there, and the answer, the answer is, if you if you have to ask how much it is, you can't afford it, right? I know that never even crossed my mind. I was thinking they were all humanitarian people and that, yeah, yeah. And then Hey. And I also found out one of the reasons I looked into it today, again, they have a famous chef so they can feed you like a king as well. As you know, provide every lecture facility there is. This is where the world peace talks are held, the Mid East peace talks. This is right here. So it's kind of an important place to be, great if we could be there just for fun. But we also have Maurice tack room and horse barn where people can stay if they don't is in eastern West Virginia, Martinsburg, West Virginia, and we, we decided to do at least a day, day and a half of regular old lecture stuff, but then I want to do a pretty complete wild Zoom meeting before that, So this Zoom meeting can be used in RE to replace our lecture. If you can't be there, it just, I'm always thinking to cost $1,000 for the plane, $1,000 for the hotel, right? And $1,000 for the meeting. So you're dropping 3000 bucks every time you try to learn something, unless you're doing like what we're doing here tonight, and you know, we're trying to make it super cheap, so that's what's going on here, and it will be happening June 1. Okay, great. All right. Anybody else Comments, questions? Doctor tannow, what's doing? Or Doctor Quinn, is Dr Quinn or Tano? What's doing with the research group? I tell you what I let me, let me enter, intercede, because I was one who helped start this Dr Quinn and Dr Tano should run this group. You know, I could turn into a vapor. But what Dr Quinn has contributed, and Dr Tano has been exceptional, so I think they should take over this group. And also now we have a pharmacist, we have an MD, you know, we have different people that can, you know, show that we're a broad spectrum group.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:40
So anyway, Congratulations, Dr Quinn, now I'll be quiet and let you talk. No, I was hoping that you would,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:49
yeah. We just quickly the some of the projects that we have going. We just update each other on these things, and the main things seem to be looking at various places for clinic type of things, the setup of those clinics, and then the educational aspect. So that's kind of like the big three things that we update each other on. We've got a new member who I don't think has come to this group, that's Dr Anthony James from Florida, who has set up quite a, quite a system for indigenous, will say, type of medicine he also is set up with, is it Florida, International University, somebody like that down in Florida, that they actually offer a degreed program. So we're looking at that as well as part of our educational direction. And part of that education will be real, real training. So Dr Tano is working on that. And my and my little contribution to this, if we have one, is to make all of those educational facilities units come in the way of documentary, film, video, so all education could come out of convenience in the way of packets. So if you can successfully review the packets and pass our committee's exam, then you can get either a master's degree or beyond with with Daniel's stuff down south. Okay, great, exactly, exactly, doing great. Amazing. Town has got amazing educational platforms that we're we're looking at taking, I think people can take a look at some of them and see what you like. There's going to be an entirely, well, let's say an entire system put in of education that is, it's it's going to have various cost points, price points for a certain amount. I mean, he's got everything from a six week course on things to two year. So we're looking to integrate all of that, and so that the goal is to we will be able to educate practitioners much like I think this format is, but maybe in a start to finish kind of manner.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:14
Yeah, Teno and Quinn are they're serious about this stuff. They want to put together a really high quality education program, understandable. And then, you know, it started out as a research thing I'll just add. And I talked to Peter today, and he's got this product that is going to be coming out very soon, which is a detoxification, a metal detoxification. That's not EDTA or DMS, the tmbs, the MSA. It's different. It's a double glutathione structure that's extremely safe, and they're doing trials on it right now. We're going to be able to get that thing out and market that for our research aspect of the group. One more thing that Pete finally came to grips with is that we're going to have to make some money to make this happen. Everybody has been generous as hell to a fault, and now it's just obvious that money will have to be made if we're going to cycle through all these things. So at some point, we should be discussing how we can make sure that our different people here are financially successful. I want Dr Tanner to do well in publishing. Dr Quinn has already done amazing stuff with products and laws and regulations and stuff and but we're all doing different things, and we all need to be successful on what we're doing if we're going to join together as a group. And as far as another education thing, is Bill Clearfield, I think he's putting together the most incredible one line education you could get. So instead of us spattering out and going in different directions, we should be giving a lot of support to bill, because what, what he's done and what he's doing that could be, you know, another one of these aspects. Man, amen, yeah, uh, Doctor Clearfield, actually, I have incorporated all the talk that happens here to the pro mediverse. So if people are interested in the metaverse, they come there, they will find this talk, but I can always close it up so that nobody can have access unless we give them access to it.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:45
I'm not sure what to do. I mean, they're not my talks. They're, you know, they're, they're the group's talks. So, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:52:54
So I think that, you know, the group has to come to some sort of consensus on it, right? Yeah. So, okay, so Dr Tanner could write a book on each talk we have. He's that good what he does so and we then we could all share with that. We could all be supportive and still individually grow. I don't have a dog in the race. That's why it's fun to me just to watch you guys do well. And we have Melvin doing the cancer thing out there. We got the Native American thing going on with our other gentleman. All in all in Vegas, all right there. And these are the national centers, so a lot could be pulled off.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:43
Okay, so, I mean, I don't, I don't have a, you know, you know, we have, we have all the videos on our aos rd website, anybody can go on there, you know, for free. It's not, it's not. I mean, we can close that off too, but I don't know everything, everything Dr Tan, who could put it on his site, is, you're already doing bill, but he could also put together the books and the films. And if we put the films together in the way of documentary structure, then we have an educational system. This is what we feed our students. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:21
all right? I mean, I, you know, I mean, I'm, I'm all for, you know, we've offered this all for free. I mean, it would be nice to make some money out of it for the last five years, right? You know, at least, at least cover the cost of the zoom and and the and the, you know, the advertisement, the the AWeber, the email platform went tripled in price in the last two months. So

Unknown Speaker  1:54:56
I'm like Elon Musk, it takes money to get done. Yeah, come to terms with that. We're not grabbing rockets out of the thin air, though. That's you know, are we, or are we really,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:11
you know, I've always felt that the information that is presented here by this various experts is extremely, valuable. And yes, you know, there's a $50 charge for the two units and all that kind of stuff. But I just in the back of my mind think that there should be some type of a membership fee or something nominal, like you said, Dr Clearfield, to cover at least the costs. I'm just completely blown away at the talent that you guys bring in various subjects. And it's just worth something. I think I just, I just don't know exactly how that would go, and I wouldn't want to mess up, you know, the the structure and the status that you have right now, but it's, it's worth, it's worth something, at least a membership, yeah. I mean, yeah. I mean, it should be worth something, you know, even if you know, I mean, I mean, anybody who's on here, if they were paying $3 you know, to get on or $5 I mean, I don't think that that's, you know, overly burdensome. And we had, we had almost 50, or that'd be $150 that would cover at least the, you know, the the email platform went up to 120 bucks a month, and then we went over that, so they charged me even more so. And yeah, I've, well, touching it. We still have a osrd money that I haven't touched, that we have between the AOS rd and aos i am. We have about $58,000 left, still in the in the in the treasury. I mean, it's not my money, you know, it's the group's money. And the we not really had any income at all in the last two years. So no, something's got to change there. Yeah. So maybe we should have a Zoom meeting, a gathering or something, and figure out, put our brains together and say how we can make money. We got brains that can save lives. We have brains that can make money. It's just a lot of us are not inclined that way, and we try to make the most moral decisions possible. But at some point we have to finance these things, and then it makes it cheaper. I mean, it's not like we're taking their money. We take the money, we make a more efficient system, and we can give them products that are cheaper or better, you know, make the thing all efficient. Well, you know, I'm well, you said you're going to have something live June 1. Yes. So Emma

Unknown Speaker  1:57:42
Reece horse farm, if, if I get some help, I would like to put together, you know, a live conference somewhere along the line. We haven't had one since we're since our banishment.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:54
Well, are you going to be doing this? Comes to live conferences time anytime soon, next month, two or three, well, it, you know, I would take at least three or four months to plan it. I wouldn't want to just throw it up there, because, well, we're going to do something June 1, just because we had to pick a date and do it, because we haven't done it yet. So we got that. And as we go along here, and we deal with these things, like, you know, RFK, and what he's, what's it going to be involved with that? And we also have a, we have some weird things going on here. We have one guy, honey man. He's like a crazy honey guy, but he's developed a system where he takes vitamins and supplements and drugs and feeds them to the honey honey bees. And the honey bees make a more potent eyes drug and a more potent eyes vitamin. And it's just a wild ass idea, but he may be one of the ones that talks here. So the we have a few different ideas. It's just that they're really mad scientists. He couldn't even use his telephone, let alone a computer. I asked him, What if he could do a PowerPoint? And he said, listen, he had but he can talk to bees.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:15
And then we have, right next to the horse farm, we have a huge cliff that overlooks a huge portion of the Potomac River that happens to be Rob Owens, our filmer guy that's his home. So we can just walk across the street and be on the edge of a cliff for a meditation watch the sun go down.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:42
I know, if you can see it, I got some horse paste. Here. I got some ivermectin. I got, yeah, that's, is that still the only source? I was dealing with that yesterday, and since I'm not a doctor anymore, I retired, I can't order ivermectin. But people tell me they still can't Amazon. You don't have to be a doctor to get it. You go on Amazon. You get horse based, right? It says it's ivermectin paste. That's what it says about can you see it? Yeah, no, that's, that's what my patient uses. So you ordered a huge amount of ivermectin, and it kept a few people going recently, but then it ran out. So we gotta get back the pandemic. I got 1000 pills, 1012 milligram pills from India for $155 and you the man, how are you guys eating the ivermectin pace? It's, I have horses, I wouldn't eat that. Yeah, it's flavored, huh? If you smell. I haven't tried it. I have, I haven't taken it out of the box yet. I'll let you know when I when I get brave enough. I can't even imagine eating that I when I get into my fingers or anywhere near me, it's like nasty. And the horses, I have to fight them to get it in them apple. They don't think it's apple flavored at all. So that's why I want to know how these people are eating it. Because I've talked to people that are doing it, I just can't believe they're eating it. Well, I'll let I'll wait for Dr Nario to show up at the office, and we'll have a, we'll have a, we'll put it on a, yeah, we'll put it, we'll put it on a little, you know, little non or something, and you'll make it with

Unknown Speaker  2:01:32
you, remember, I don't eat, right? Oh, yeah, that's right, doesn't eat. Let's give it to the interns that joins you over there, life saver, I guarantee you, but I there's gotta be a better way. I'll let you know. Okay, let you know how it goes. Thanks for keeping us going, fellas. Alright. Well, thank yous take care. Okay, alright, yeah and alright. So next week, same time, same station. We have Doctor forget her first name, Sammons. He's a hormone type person. She was one on AJ and she was on Doctor halasa. So we got, we got her next week, and she's, she's, she's, she's a hormone whiz. So we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll be talking to her next week. And week after that, we have, Dr Tano, if you're still on Dr Tano, don't forget, when do I have to send you a topic? Call it

Unknown Speaker  2:02:35
just a couple days before you know you have a week or week or so more to think on it. So sure. Unless you guys have a topic you want me to cover, I can always do that too. You know what I'd like you to cover? Can you cover drawing AI images and getting the spelling right?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:58
That's a good one. That's a challenge. That's correct, right? That's a challenge. I know I've too, I've done it too, and the words don't come out right, and then you ask it, you know, spell the words right, and it comes out even worse, right? Yeah, that's correct. Yes, okay, alright, Doctor Nario, anything else? No, it was an awesome seminar. and get some more for you guys. In slacking here, you usually have, you know, three or four months ahead of me here so well. Andrew Wells, cracking me doing. Andrew Weil.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai