Bill Clearfield  00:15
Here he is, Mr. Brio pro himself.

Unknown Speaker  00:18
Hey, Dr Clearfield.

Bill Clearfield  00:24
How's life? How's life in Florida?

Speaker 1  00:26
It's good. My wife just said, Oh no, when she heard your voice, oh no.

Bill Clearfield  00:32
What does that mean? Oh no. It's

Speaker 1  00:35
not. First of all, it's just that she knows I'm going to be on this call for the next two hours.

Bill Clearfield  00:39
Well, you usually drop off, don't you? Uh,

Speaker 1  00:42
usually, because she's like, he would listen to those guys for too long. It paid me some attention.

Bill Clearfield  00:50
Yeah. Well, you know, was it somebody, somebody said, uh, his son came to wanted to know he was going to, wanted to get married, and his father said, No, you're not ready. And the reason, the reason being, is that he hasn't learned yet to say, to apologize for things he hasn't, hasn't done yet. You just

Unknown Speaker  01:12
got to keep apologizing.

Bill Clearfield  01:15
Yeah, I noticed. I noticed I do that a lot. You know, I'm just fiance. I'm not really married,

Speaker 1  01:21
so, yeah, did you say you're not gonna get married again? Are you gonna do it now? We invited we're

Bill Clearfield  01:31
gonna dance, if you if you'd want to learn how to dance, but you know, you keep you keep fighting me.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
Yeah, I don't want to dance. Doc, gun winning.

Bill Clearfield  01:44
You do all those cool things, and you don't want to dance. It's, it's like, it's uncanny.

Speaker 1  01:48
No, no, I don't do dancing. I play tennis, though

Bill Clearfield  01:55
I know you play tennis. So, so where are you going next?

Speaker 1  02:03
We're going to that conference in Bologna, Italy. I'm going to speak there too. Okay, the symposium of functional medicine in Italy. And I'm going to, I'm going to try to give the presentation in Italian. There you go. Yeah, I made a real. I

Bill Clearfield  02:25
hope you have a speaker tonight. I was not able to contact her. Doctor, Nario said she'd be on so, oh, man, I did not contact her at all. So do you have anything ready just in case? I mean, I always have something. I could

Unknown Speaker  02:39
guess. I could

Bill Clearfield  02:41
tell us. Tell us what you did when you went to where was your last exotic place? I know you went to England right

Speaker 1  02:49
now. We went to England. We went to that Doofy conference in London.

Bill Clearfield  02:55
Yeah. They same outfit invited me to go to Bangkok.

Speaker 1  02:58
Yeah, no, they invited me to I said, Now I'll pass

Bill Clearfield  03:05
yeah and yeah and then, no, I got a bunch of I got a ammg coming up. Then I got the vitamin C, that's in that's in November. I got the vitamin C. Lady invited me to do hormones and vitamin C. I had to go look that stuff up. Then I got, uh oh, I got my annual, semi annual, a 4m rejection. Really, they don't like you. They don't like me. I know, ever since the gal I used to do the Botox on left, they don't, they don't, they don't want me at all.

Speaker 1  03:48
I thought about applying to speak at a frame in the West Palm,

Bill Clearfield  03:54
yeah, well, I do it twice a year, and I keep getting rejected. I don't know. Maybe I'm maybe I'm too old, you know, I got a lot of wrinkles now, I don't look so good anymore. I just gonna have to pass the information on to you.

Unknown Speaker  04:08
Yeah, I try to absorb it all here.

Bill Clearfield  04:13
So and I'm working on, what am I working? I'm working on the endocrinology of psychiatric illness. So it was supposed to be an article. I got invited to write an article for a journal, and I kind of got away from me. I'm only about two thirds the way done, and it's already up to 80 pages. Wow,

Unknown Speaker  04:37
you're a prolific writer.

Bill Clearfield  04:39
I might, I might, I might have to turn to Dr Chan. Maybe we can turn it into a little booklet or

Speaker 1  04:45
something. Sounds like it. Well, I'm, I'm turning all my lecture materials into, of course, I'm serious about it. I'm gonna make a really nice, practical course.

Bill Clearfield  04:56
Yeah. I mean, I have a few of those. The only people who made any money on it were the people who sponsor the platforms that make so

Speaker 1  05:10
well. I've got an in with the Florida Academy of pas. They wanted it because I gave a great lecture in Tampa on iodine. I iodine filled them. They love to hear it. And they said, we need more of this. There's a huge demand.

Bill Clearfield  05:24
Yeah, well, the the osteopaths don't so I gave it. I gave a talk on, you know, my the laboratory, yeah, oh, man, did they? They one guy was screaming at me, what do you mean? You're just shotgunning tests here you're just ordering tests for no reason, right?

Speaker 1  05:44
When this was, this is recent. This was in July. Oh, that's recent. Then

Bill Clearfield  05:50
all you're doing is ordering tests. I said I'm going over lab tests, things you should know,

Unknown Speaker  05:55
it's cheap, too, if you order through lab

Bill Clearfield  06:00
really, like he got he got hot under the collar about ordering thyroid antibodies. Really, the TSH is normal. We do have our speaker here, great. The TSH is normal here. What are you ordering this stuff for? I said because you guys will miss it. That's why

Speaker 1  06:19
I believe they're still defending ordering a TSH alone, yep. Ah, come on, it's 2025,

Bill Clearfield  06:28
get with, well, that's what Halas, that's what had lost. It. Told me about writing books, and then I guess they, they Amazon's pulled his, his, you know, his AI books from what, that's what I hear so well, you know, he does it all with AI, and it's, you know, you're supposed to do your own writing.

Unknown Speaker  06:56
But this

Bill Clearfield  06:59
is Dr Crowley, are you talking? Because if you are, it's, it's it's muted.

Speaker 2  07:05
No, there's a lot of background noise. I was going to say something, but I am just shocked at them. I guess if they're recognizing the content as AI, then maybe they have the right to take it down. But I don't know. I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  07:31
We've done, we've done we've done some, you know, we kind of use it as an outline. So got our guest here, Melissa can Dr Cano, there you go. So pleased to have you with us. We usually start a little bit after five. First we have Dr Nario give us the the integrative medicine Tip of the Week. And that's from his his course with Dr Weil. We do that because the rest of us are either too lazy or too cheap to go take the class ourselves. So

Speaker 3  08:14
hey, Dr Bill, yeah, did? You did? I tell you that I got another good speaker for us.

Bill Clearfield  08:19
You did? You did. So you're gonna, we're gonna talk about that here, either before or after our class. Also,

Speaker 3  08:27
I pulled all my a 4m crew for you.

Bill Clearfield  08:31
Okay, well, that's good, because I got my sense like I was telling that Stefan. I got my semi annual rejection from a forum for, you know, I sent him, I sent him a couple of abstracts for December, and they've told, you know, they told me again, they don't want me, so

Speaker 3  08:49
give it to me. I told you, pass it through me. I'll get give it a push. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  08:58
alright. So, so while we're getting ready, before you do your tip, you want to talk a little bit about what we talked about this weekend.

Speaker 3  09:07
Oh yeah, sure. So just to give everybody an update for the conference here in Reno the element hotel, December four, five and six. So we already got teams organized. We got the team from the research group from the homeopathic board, from aosim. And also, I think Dr Bruce's Noma group is going to be to be part of this. Did I miss anybody else in that group? Nima, Dr Gerber, also, I

Bill Clearfield  09:34
don't know when Dr halasa gets back, he'll one in two. So,

Speaker 3  09:38
right. So we have basically, like five, six teams on this conference, and everybody's going to be doing their part getting AV production, going speakers. We're now trying to get sponsors in there, but we're where we're going with this is getting into It's getting real and real as we move forward. So this is a good sign. So everybody out there. Make sure who wants to be a speaker, submit your abstracts to us, and also sponsors. If you want to be a sponsor, if you want to fly in, we have block rooms also, and I think we sell 10 rooms, great, yeah, I think that will be easy to do. And Dr Siegel already kind of volunteered to be part of our on, I guess Live Crew to be a part of the speaking group. Mm, hmm. I'm also talking to the Philippine group. They're probably going to send some speakers over to us. They're going to be doing it online. So at least they because they want to participate. So we, we got this, yeah, this is a good response for us. Not bad for what? How many year of hiatus?

Bill Clearfield  10:43
Yeah, well, it's been three years since we've had a live show,

Speaker 3  10:47
right? So it's time to see each other again, live and up close. This is the time to do it. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:54
and, and Doctor Quinn and The The Doctor Quinn and the medicine group, his medicine show, sounds a little bit like snake oil, yeah. Well, so I think one of the, one of the one of the key features, I think, of this conference that you're not going to get any place else is Dr Quinn's group has been putting together an apothecary of, well, you explain it, okay, yeah, there's like two phases or two sections of the apothecary. One of them is the standard FDA approved type of meds, cardiac meds, antibiotics, all of that kind of stuff that's going to go through, Shin laws of the other the apothecary is going to be those things, as Dr Tano likes to say things that maybe people are a little bit afraid of using and or things that are difficult to find. Plus, we're going to have, you know, peptides and all of that homeopathic everything we're looking to run the gambit so, you know, like Dr Dimitri molecule for detoxification. Dr Tanner's products, things like that. We're going to carry all of that stuff. We actually have a group of about four or five of us that review any potential additions to this, as I like to say, the the it's kind of like it's dynamic, the the the formulary changes, ads, deletes, and all that. It's not set in stone. So people can get things added, you know, by by presenting them to us. And we've had presentations. I don't know if you know that, but we've had presentations on Saturday mornings. We give some of these people half an hour, and they can present their stuff. So, yeah, we're we're going strong, and hopefully by December, will will be really powerful, and we'll be up and running before then. Okay, what about what about spermidine? Do you think you're gonna have to have some of that in there? Why not? Well, we're gonna find out why. Why or why not tonight. Yeah, you like that lead it. How is that leading? I

Unknown Speaker  12:56
mean, that was a perfect was

Bill Clearfield  12:59
that smooth or what

Unknown Speaker  13:02
done this all your life?

Bill Clearfield  13:05
Okay, this is Doctor, Doctor, Doctor. Nary you want to do your typical tip in a week here?

Unknown Speaker  13:12
All right, sure. So, okay, so

Bill Clearfield  13:17
I'll get you back in here just a few minutes.

Speaker 3  13:21
Alright, so our league of the Week today, so would be so we're going to divert away from our supplements, from our regular peptide recommendations, but we're going to be diving in, into Chinese body clocks. So let's talk about the foundation of traditional Chinese medicine, or the Chi, the queen, the Chi, whatever you want to call it. So it's like an electrical circuit. The key is the current flowing through the wires. If the current moves smoothly, the lights stay bright. But if there's a short circuit, suddenly things flicker, dim or even shut down. That's why chi matters. It powers movement, fuels metabolism, helps the immune system, and keeps everything in its proper place. So now here's the fun part. The QI doesn't just wander around aimlessly. It runs on every organized 24 hours scheduled called this Chinese body clock. This clock tell us when each organ system has peak energy, almost like each organ has its own office hours. So if you're ever wondering why you always wake up in the same odd time at night, or why 3pm slumps it hard for you, the Chinese body clock might just hold the answer. And don't worry, we'll keep it simple and practical. So TCM divides the day into 12 hours. Each organ gets its shift. Think of it like an ancient factory schedule. Some organs are on day shift, others on graveyard, and a few are just over achievers. So here's something maybe more specific for you. At three to 5am we're talking about the lungs being in charge. So this is detox and oxygen time for us, and this is when the lungs chi peaks, supporting the deep breath and purification. If you wake up at this time, it may be unresolved grief knocking or maybe you're just having your neighbor's dog barking at you, but either way, your lungs want peace during this time, seven to 9am it's your stomach. This is the best time for a hearty breakfast. The stomach's chi is the strongest here, making it most efficient at breaking down food and absorbing nutrients. Skip it, and your stomach is basically saying, Great. Now I'm supposed to power this whole day on fumes. So nine to 11am spleen working with the stomach. The spleen transforms food into usable energy. Mental clarity peaks now, making this as an accurate time for work, study and problem solving. If you're a sharpest mid morning. Thank your screen for it. So 11am to 1pm is the heart time for joy and connection, which is great for lunch with friends, not great for stressful meetings. So if your heart could talk, it's a laughter, please not spreadsheets. So it's best to avoid strenuous activities or excess stress during this period. One to 3pm small intestines. This is the great sorter, as we call it, separating nutrients from waste. Emotionally, it's about discernment, deciding that's what's useful and what's not. So if you can't choose between coffee or tea, just know your small intestines is working overtime. Three to 5pm is the bladder. So this is detox mode. This is when the afternoon energy slump often hits, but sometimes it's just your body saying, hydrate me. A short break helps here. Five to 7pm the kidneys, the energetic battery pack of the body, storing the essential life force, the Jing, as we call it, this is the best time for light dinners, recharging and calm activities. Netflix counts, but if you're only hydrated, so 11pm to 1am the gall bladder is working hard. The decision maker. You should be asleep so your gallbladder can plan tomorrow's brilliance. This period is crucial for cell repair and mental processing. Waking during this time may relate to indecisiveness or low self esteem. So stay awake here, and you may end up planning poorly. And lastly, one to 3am the liver, it's a detox headquarters. Deep sleeps is essential so that the liver can do its full job. If you wake up angry at 2am about something from 2008 or in the past, that's your liver talking. It can be assigned. There's a QI stagnation often linked to anger, frustration or stress. So what's the takeaway? Your body has a clock, whether you wear a watch or not, honor the rhythm, and you'll sleep better, digest better and maybe even stress less. So thanks for joining me today. Remember listen to your body's clock, because it's been running the schedule for 1000s of years, and that's your leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  17:36
Thank you. Were you all able to see that I put up a clock for you able to see that on your screen. Oh, yes. Okay. So just a couple of other things. So some of some of the practitioners, so that some, some of you may know that I've been an acupuncturist since 1991 some of the practitioners will only treat certain conditions at that time, like they'll they will tell and these were mostly the east, the the the the originals, the older folks, the the Asians, they they will only treat lung conditions. They'll have to have their patients come in at three, three o'clock in the morning, and that's what, that's when they'll only treat them. We thought that was a little bit a little bit obsessive compulsive, but, you know, some of them insisted that was the only time you could successfully treat lung, lung issues, and again, following the whole clock. The other thing is to remember is that the spleen was actually miss, miss translated. It actually refers to the pancreas, but it was, it was, it was translated as spleen. So when, you say your spleen is out, is that it's really your pancreas. You thank your pancreas. That's what you said there, right? Maybe, you know, may just maybe, the the spleen and the clock, it needs a little bit of help from some some really powerful supplements. I heard spermidine is pretty good for G but I could be wrong. We got to find out. I don't think I did as well this time as the first time. So, so, but I want to welcome Dr Melissa Cano. She's a biochemist, a molecular biologist with a deep passion for exploring cellular metabolism and bio technology, originally from France. You're not our first French speaker. By the way, we had a speaker last year from France, okay, who's now, by the way, moved on to Greece and Van Gallica, if you remember, those of you who are on with her, she's she's in in Greece now, earned her PhD at the French alternative energies and Atomic Energy Commission, where she focused on advanced biofuels production. She expanded her expertise in metabolic energy engineering, analytic chemistry and biophysics. She leads projects for eight years on bioenergetics, ATP and NAD modulation and gene editing to develop microbial strains for producing valuable compounds at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Colorado, School of the mines. After 12 years in academia, Dr Tano transitioned to the dynamics startup world, applying her expertise to developing sustainable biofuels and bio products. She's the director of science and longevity labs. She combines her scientific background with a passion for health and longevity and oversees global research collaborations. She works to translate cutting edge research into practical life enhancing solutions for doctors and the public, and our goal is to bridge the gap between groundbreaking science and tangible benefits for human well being. Quite a mouthful. What I don't know. Dr Nario, how you find these people that are a lot smarter than at least me? But So, Dr Cano, welcome and thank you for being here, and I was perusing your your website and some of the things you have to speak about, and they're quite fascinating. So, and even at this late stage in my in my career, I'm still learning new things. So So take it away. If you have a slideshow, you know how to share only us old folks like me and Dr Burgess who don't know how these things work. So,

Speaker 4  21:27
oh, I cannot function without a slideshow. So do you see this? Yep. Is it working? Okay? So Well, thank you for this great introduction and the great like transition from your like meeting. I'm actually very surprised and happily surprised how you guys communicate and organize this. I find this amazing. So thank you very much for having me. So I joined longevity labs about a year ago, and to be honest, before that, I didn't really know much about sperm really. Most of my career, I've been like studying the world of microbes and mainly bacterias and so like joining the world of more integrative medicine has been quite a bit of an experience for me, but it's been amazing because I've learned a lot, and I was able to use all my background in biochemistry to really translate the research and make it accessible to the general public, but also like more advanced people like you. So I'll go ahead and just take you through the slides I've prepared. I don't know how you guys do it if you want to interrupt and ask question as we go. It's hard for me to check the chat, but like, maybe you can let me know if someone has been asking question as we go, or we can do this at the end. Like, there'll be a little bit of Q A session. So sperm it in.

Bill Clearfield  22:56
Usually we do it at the So, okay, sounds great. I'm not really seeing the slides.

Unknown Speaker  23:04
No, I just see you as a small square.

Speaker 4  23:08
Does anyone else see the initial slide with my cursor on it?

Bill Clearfield  23:15
It says longevity lab, spermidine, life mode, method, and it looks like, like a green screen that you're in front of.

Speaker 4  23:22
Oh, okay, so let me see. Oh, okay, got it that was in the right screen. Now you should be seeing it. Thank you for that. I was gonna start right away with that live show. So let's go. So Germany is often called the longevity molecule, other molecule will can also take the same title, but obviously that's why we specialize in so I'll get to use it for that time being. So I've tried to also present a little bit with a more topic of the musculoskeletal health, because I thought it would be a little bit interesting for the crowd today. But you'll see the health benefits are pretty wide as we go. Let me see how I can actually change the sign. Now, does that work? Let's go. Okay, so in this presentation, I hope you can get away with a good sense of what spermidine is, how it works, the key health benefits. And you'll see they're pretty, pretty diverse, because of how the main mechanism of action of this molecule, the specific impacts on the musculoskeletal system. I've tried to make a little bit a little bit condensed of the scientific literature with the benefits, and we'll finish with the Q and A session. So what is spermidine? So you will see it's a very small molecule. It's called a polyamine because it has three amino groups. So those are the groups with the nitrogen atoms here that are bonded by carbons, so seven carbon atoms, so it's very small, and those three amino groups as physiological pH, are positively charged. What does that mean? That means that it's going to interact with most negatively charged molecule, and that will include RNA, DNA and a lot of protein. So its function is essential. It has a lot of impact in the in the cell cycle, and we'll get into detail about its specific mode of action. Let's say so it's found in all living organisms and cell you will find it in every cell in your body, all plants, all bacteria, all organism has it, and therefore it's an important component, component of our nutrition. So we have daily needs of spermidine, so we cannot really function without it. About a third of your daily needs are going to come for from your diet or supplements. So about a third of it, which represent more or less six to 12 milligrams, you can go a little bit higher in very plant based diet from the more Mediterranean zone, where people already eat a lot of legumes, nuts, peas, broccoli, so cruciferous. So here you can see inverse pyramid of spermidine, rich foods at the top of the of the highest source of spermidine in the natural world is wheat germ. There's also some mushrooms that may be able to compete with this wheat germ content of spermidine. And then you'll find it in other things, in aged cheese, which pretty amazing. But also peas, nuts, apples and pears are good sources well and broccoli. So it's an important component of your nutrition. About another third of your daily needs, it comes from the cellular metabolism. So your cells are able to synthesize this from arginine. So there's a little bit of a complex metabolic pathway, but it's a bit of a derivative of arginine and ornithine, another third. So the last third of your daily spermidines come from your gut, so your bacteria are going to be able to produce it. So this whole this all components of spermidine participate to your systemic levels. So you will have specific levels in your blood and in your tissues, and they vary depending on the tissue. So this is a very big simplification, but it's kind of just a visual representation of the idea that with age, the sperm ability levels, whether it's in the blood, but mainly specifically, the most interesting parties in the actual tissues are going to decrease with age. Why is that? I mean, mainly because there's some rate limiting steps in the enzyme, enzyme, enzymatic pathways that are not functioning as well. You have less of the essential enzyme to produce it, your gut microbiome is not as efficient, not you don't have as healthy bacteria, and you don't really absorb it as well from your food. And usually, as you age, also, you may be eating a little bit less. So all this participate to the fact that the levels decrease with age. So what does it do? The main thing that it does, and that I want you to get, to take away from if you there's one thing you need to remember, is that it's going to be an amazing inducer of autophagy. And so what is autophagy? Try to make a visual representation of it. Obviously, this is not up to scale, and it's not a full representation of what a cell is but let's say this is a general cell in your body. You have a little nucleus here, plenty of mitochondria, also plenty of proteins. Obviously, this is very simplified, and the autophagy process is a cellular cleanup mechanism. So you can think inside your cell there's a bunch of things happening at all time. You have tons of different proteins and other molecule specifically, I'm going to focus on proteins and mitochondria. All of those are being produced regularly. They're being used and they get old or damaged, or sometimes they're faulty, so they're not synthesized properly. And so the autophagy process is the mechanism that is going to help getting rid of all those faulty, damaged components. So the way it works, it's literally the creation of an encapsulation of all those old components, whether old proteins or other other organelles, mainly mitochondria. And so it's going to form this structure, which is kind of a double membrane around old mitochondria and proteins that called an autophagosome. And so to this structure is going to link itself another one, a little vesicle that is full of hydrolytic enzyme called a lysosome, that is going to fuse itself form an autolysosome. And basically all those enzymes are going to degrade all the these old mitochondria and protein. And so what you end up with is like new elements that can be reused to generate new mitochondria and protein. So it's a bit of a simplification, but when autophagy works well, your cells stay healthy and it is used efficiently, and ages slows down. This is a little bit of a stretch, obviously, but in the context of longevity, it helps maintain your cell functioning properly. So avoiding the main the main traps of cell that is whose proper function is impaired, and that is going to show signs of aging when autophagy is impaired. So when this process doesn't work properly, it's when you have the junk building up, creates inflammation, and it's actually the basis of a lot of disease. So a lot of diseases are related to an impairment of autophagy. It's not the main trigger, but it's often correlated. There's a correlation with an impairment of autophagy. So if we were to zoom in to look a little bit at the actual molecule mechanism. So if we were to zoom in at the level the, let's say the plasma membrane here, so if you were to intake spermidine, but like I said, it can be produced internally in the cell. Spermidine can be transported inside the cell by some specific transporter, and the way it's going to really trigger autophagy is through the activation of this translation factor, factor called EIF five A, yes, that's a horrible name, but that's what it is, and it's often like this. So it's actually going to chemically linked itself to this translation factor in a unique reaction called hypogination. It's actually the only, well, that's not, actually correct anymore, but it used to be the only protein that could be hypoxinated, meaning that the spermity link itself and kind of create a moiety that is specific on it. Now they found last year a new factor that can also be modified. Maybe we'll get into it for some time, but the whey works spermity link itself, modify this translation factor that then is going to activate a bunch of reaction and especially the activation of this transcription factor called T, Feb, that is at the core of a lot of

Speaker 4  32:38
important protein for a cell division, but also like a whole transcription program that is going to include some of the protein that are essential for the formation of this autophagy, autophagosomal structure. So I'm getting a little bit faster here, because, I mean, we could spend a long time here, but you can see this factor here is going to activate T Feb, increase the transcription and translation of those essential components that are necessary for the formation of these autophagy so directly activate autophagy. It also has other pathway through which it works. It can inhibit these acetylase called EP 300 if you've heard about it, that indirectly, is going to itself inhibit those light chain that form the autophagy motor structure. So basically, it activates so through this pathway, also through this transcription factor called Fox o3 a it's a little bit of a lot the way. What the reason why I'm showing you this is because those different activation pathway, and mainly this one, this translation factor, EIA five, a have been well elucidated in the scientific literature. So this is well established. We know that this is the main way spermidine is going to activate autophagy through those factors here, it also helps, through the activation of this translation factor, increase production of some essential mitochondrial proteins. So not only does it activate autophagy, which I want to emphasize that it also includes mitophagy, so meaning the recycling of the old mitochondria. So mitophagy is a special kind of autophagy. Autophagy is a genetic structure. Mitophagy is specific to the mitochondria, but it's going to do the both, but it's also these. The activation of this translation factor can increase the production of essential mitochondrial protein. So it actually helps with mitogenesis as well, so the formation of new mitochondria. The reason also why I'm showing you this is because I want to get into like alternative pathway that you've probably heard of, mTOR, the nutrient sensing pathway. I'm not going to get too much into it, but the you will see also that AMPK, so that's your energy sensor is going to sense how much ATP, ADP you have. And you may have heard the search rings, also that those guys are gonna there are some acetylase are gonna affect also this similar pathway. The reason I'm showing you all of this is because at the end of the days, even caloric restriction that are going to activate AMPK, inhibit hemato, activate sertuin. What they do at the end, like those, caloric restriction mimetic, rapamycin, Metformin, resveratrol, they actually all do more or less the same thing. At the end, they activate autophagy. So rapamycin is going to inhibit mTOR, which therefore activate autophagy, Metformin is going to activate again, PPK, which therefore activate autophagy. Resveratrol is going to stimulate surgery, which activate autophagy. Sperm reading through those different pathway is going to activate a topic. So a little bit much, but I want, I wanted you to have a visual representation that this is pretty well established now. There's still some some little tweaks here and there that needs to be fully cleared out, but we have pretty good idea that how the autophagy can be activated. And we know that it's important to maintain cellular male status, and we know that spermidine is a directly trigger of this process, so maintaining healthy levels of spermidine is critical. So we know that spermidine levels decrease with age in most tissues, there could be some tissues where it's not fully accurate. There's, like, some data. This can be some there's controversial, according to some people, but they have found that in some so you can see in all the people, sperm level can decrease. This is in the blood serum, which also can be a bit a bit complex, because they don't really correlate well with the sperm level in tissues, but overall they had seen that in very healthy older people. So people over 90, they actually have maintained higher level spermidine. So all those initial observation had trigger the research into looking into spermidine as a potential longevity supplement. So we know now from all the studies that spermidine can extend the lifespan of many organisms that are commonly used in the lab, including flies, mice, nematode rats, and also in cell culture, human cell culture. So this is some example. I'm getting into the detail of it. I've left some reference here if you wanted to look into it specifically. This is a newer study that just came out a few months ago in aging that showed similar results that were shown before that it extends the lifespan of flies. The interesting thing of this specific paper was that they were also looking at protein restriction, and so you can see here they fed some flies with the high protein diet, and then high protein with spermidine, and they were able to extend the lifespan, the survival rate, and then they fed low protein, which gave even more of an edge, so an extended lifespan, and the best combination was the protein restriction and spermidine. So protein restriction actually helps. If you go back to the mTOR slide, can can inhibit hemptor, therefore activating also autophagy. So cumulative effect of low protein and spermidine were able to extend the lifespan. So this was a newer study. So does spermidine work in humans? Yes, we know that. And the first indication that came from epidemiological studies. Obviously, we don't have lifespan extension studies from supplementation humans, for obvious reasons, but there are several epidemiologist epidemiological studies linking higher spermidine intake to a lower mortality. I've linked a couple here. There's a new one that came out this year. What they see is that people that consume a high spermidine diet, so higher spermidine intake every day, they can have an average extended lifespan of about five years. Again, this is correlation, not causation, but it's been shown in numerous studies, also that it helps reduce, basically, the risk of death from all cause, including cardiovascular disease, which has been studied extensively. So we know that the highest spermidinid intake lower mortality of all causes, including cardiovascular disease, but also a neurodegenerative disease, metallic disease, and cancer as well. So the way it does this is mainly by activating autophagy. You can think that all the cells of your body can benefit from autophagy, and autophagy is happening at all times in all the cells of your body, otherwise you would be starting to accumulate junk. Your cells would not be functioning properly, and eventually it will lead to an impairment of proper cellular function. So because it activates autophagy everywhere, it has a lot of numerous beneficial effects to supplement, but also to have a high spermidine intake from your diet. So it can sound like steak oil, but like the example I'm going to give have been supported by scientific studies. So we can get in in detail in all those topics. Obviously we don't have the time to get in detail and everything, but obviously we've shown beneficial effect in Aging and Longevity, not only model organisms, but also in human we know that it has a lot of beneficial effect in neurodegenerative disease. There are some studies that show that it can protect against cognitive decline, prevention of dementia.

Speaker 4  41:21
Another one is obviously cardiovascular system. It's a great paper that came out a few years ago from some of our research partners at the University of Graz in Austria, that showed like, amazing effects on the cardiovascular system as well as the metabolism. So great paper that came out last year that showed that spermidine can also affect another a new factor. So another one that the EI five A I talked about, that is called our i, p, k1, which is linked to necropothesis, and they were, they showed in the paper that it can help mitigate the effects of type two diabetes. We also know that spermatin supplementation can improve glucose tolerance, a lot of beneficial effect on the musculoskeletal system, including reduce reduction of muscle loss, activation of stem cells, better, bone density, Chondrocyte protection, cartilage cartilage repair. It helps enhance the immune response. We actually have some newer clinical studies done with our products have shown that supplementation spermatin in older people help increase the immune response to the covid and the flu vaccine, and also skin and hair. So that's more a little bit cosmetic, but again, all cells are going to benefit from autophagy. So there are some studies out there that show that shows that it can improve wound healing, renewable skin cells. We work, for example, with some dentist that actually recommend because you don't need to prescribe it, but recommend the patient to use spermidine as a supplement after dental work to help with healing of the gums, in general, and it has great effects, also hair and nail. This is actually the main effect you would not notice if you were to start a supplementation journey with spermidine, because those are the cells are going to divide the fastest. And so this is the first thing that usually people notice. So I hope you can still hear me, because since I'm not hearing anyone and like I hope I'm still online and not talking in the void.

Unknown Speaker  43:51
So

Speaker 4  43:54
one paper that, like I wanted to highlight is this paper that came out last year from some of our research partners, the University of Graz, that was published in Nature cell biology, and that showed us permitting is essential for fasting, mediated autophagy and longevity. So if you remember, can I go back? Easily? I might be too but calorie restriction. So when your cells don't sense that there is enough nutrient to divide or enough energies ATP to fuel this this cell division, they usually go into a state where they're going to activate autologies. So they basically to simplify say, Okay, I don't have enough to proliferate. Let me just reuse what's already there and maintain proper function. And so in this paper, what they showed for the first time, very clearly, in humans, I mean, in model organisms and in human is that when you fast, so when there's a caloric restriction, your body actually increases its level of spermidine Naturally, which then activate autophagy, and that's why you get most of the benefits from fasting or from a calorie restriction. So this paper was amazing at really not showing that spermidine is inactive autophagy, but it's the main link that that can help link the character restriction and autophagy. So if you go and they didn't show this in human obviously, but in in I think it was in flies and mice, but if they were taking them through a calorie restriction, but pharmacologically stopping their production spermidine. There was no actuation of autophagy and no benefits from longevity, so no extension of lifespan. So it was essential to have spermidine to get the longevity benefits from calorie restriction. So that was a great paper that I think has been a little bit of a consolidation of all the work that's been done for many years to link spermidine to this activation of autophagy. So I invite you to look into it if you have time, because it's it was a great study. So this is a little bit of a simplification, but like basically, so autophagy decreased with age, with disparity level, and they were showing in this paper whether, when you fast with spermidine, it led to lifespan extension in modern organisms, but and like to to increase benefits in humans. Obviously, they didn't measure lifespan extension in humans for obvious reasons. So another study that I wanted to highlight, though, that came out, like a couple of months ago in toxicology and applied pharmacology, I really like this paper, because I think it shows like a specific use of spermidine and this activation of autophagy and mitophagy, and how it can really translate into measurable effects. They used, obviously model, model organisms, mice. They basically took mice that were in menopause condition, and they either gave them estrogen or spermidine. And what they saw, saw very well is that sperm in gave similar cardiometabolic protection to do estrogen menopausal conditions. So reduction so os and oeos is going to be spermidine. Oe is going to be a sub estrogen treatment. This is ov is going to be the mice that had the ovaries removed to mimic menopause. And so they so clearly a similar and you can see like the white bars are more or less the same everywhere. So that shows you that the reduction in oxidative stress, increasing some specific antioxidant enzyme, the reduction cholesterol levels, reduction in insulin levels, reduction insulin resistance and inflammation, as well as if you look here at the mitochondria, internal structure of it. So this is what the internal membrane in in a menopause condition in mice look like. So they're like damaged basically under night, estrogen deprivation and supplemental spermidine or estrogen, was able to basically recover and improve the structure inside structure of the mitochondria, but also their their actual function. So there are plenty of measurements in. great what quantity of sperm? That's a great question in this specific paper. I don't remember. I can look into it. I'm not going to do it right now because we need to stop the presentation. But I could definitely get back to you on this. It's going to be a little bit higher than what we usually do in human obviously. But yeah, again, back to you on this. So that was just to give you a, like, a newer study that just came out. And so there's studies I'm finding almost every other week. So there's, like, a huge resource out there. So, and I wanted to also give a couple of examples of the benefits of sperm building in some of the specific scientific literature on the musculoskeletal system, because I thought that could be a topic of interest for the specific crowd. Great paper that came out few years back now in nature called autophagy maintained stem this by preventing senescence. And in this paper, the star of the show was actually rapamycin, if you remember that inactive at that inhibit mTOR. But they also, in parallel, did every single measurement they did with rapamycin with spermidine, and the effect were exactly the same. And so what they saw basically, is that a two weeks treatment of spurning in the mice used in this study was able to reduce citizens market and increase muscle fiber formation in mice that were aging like aged mice, and so it also helped the proliferation of satellites or muscle stem cells and and reduce the protein aggregate. So what does it mean? So basically, it was able to help regeneration of muscle cells in aged mice. So helps with restoration of muscle also this paper, like you see, you heard this, this term now, EIF five A which is like the ways really this permanent is gonna activate this autophagy process. In this paper here, they show again that it activates muscle stem cells through specific, specifically this factor. So they really linked it in this paper that just came out last year. So here it was a five months experimented treatment, and they saw that there's plenty of measurement in it, but they went to also measure muscle strength, muscle grip in aged mice, and it was increased after experimenting treatments muscle for reduction of markers of muscle atrophy. I'm not getting into detail because, I mean, we could be talking about this for hours. Another study showed restaurant restoration of autophagy in case of osteoarthritis, so in condo sites, again, through these other effectors that I showed you in the metabolic pathway before. But same thing activating autophagy was helping to prevent cartilage loss. They saw specifically an increase expression of those markers that I've showed you that participate to the formation of the structure of autophagism and yeah. So basically, was able to increase the regeneration of chondrocytes, so helping cartilage. This other paper that clearly shows permanently improve or steroid arthritis as well, and this one was interesting. So I've mainly talked about sperm alien as an autophagy inducer or activator, but spermidine has also been shown to have anti inflammatory properties as well as antioxidant properties. I'm not getting into all of this, but this paper really linked the anti inflammatory response there's probably also indirectly linked to the activation of autophagy as well. But here they clearly showed that four to eight weeks permitting treatments was able to increase the anti inflammatory form of the macrophage, the m2 one, and reduce the pro inflammatory form one in the joints of aged mice, so which improve the cartilage integrity, reduce inflammatory cytokine levels. So really a direct effect in osteoarthritis. Another one that I think is also interesting, one I talked about, the AMPK pathway. Probably no exercise can help stimulate this pathway, and so in this paper, they show the synergistic effect of combining spermidine supplementation in mice with exercise, I was able to even enhance even more autophagy, and so I was able to reduce skeletal muscular muscle atrophy trophy in rats. Sorry, so, so the AMPK and foxyl three a pathway, so this was a six weeks treatment,

Speaker 4  53:45
so where they also show reduction practices markers. And they were able to see reduced oxidative stress, improved mitochondrial quality. And so you can see plenty of beautiful microscopy image that show the improved muscle fiber structure following the spermidine treatment. And especially this the cumulative effect of this plus exercise in in muscle loss. So this review is actually interesting about the specific topic that shows the benefits of polyamine and and a physical activity is this direct proportion with the dose, if you mean whether the effect, the amount of the effect is proportional to those in those specific papers, I think it was one single type of dosage. And I want to highlight something is that the dosage used in humans. So we have some clinical trials that have been used in human where we've The more the better. So not always, and there are some papers out there where, and I could link them also, if you're interested, where they give a lot of spermidine, and I want to highlight that that would not be a reasonable amount for humans, definitely not through diet, but also through supplementation, where you actually create too much oxidative stress in mice, and has and had negative effects. So definitely not the more, the better. The way I see it is that those are pre clinical studies, so they're always and the amount that they give is very not translated well in humans, but look for and we can talk about it later. The clinical trials have been done so far in humans. Obviously, the effects are limited to the specific topic that have been explored, which include neurodegenerative disease, cardiovascular disease and the immune system response, but the levels in humans are much lower that have been used. So we're talking about six milligram of daily supplementation for human just to go back to the very beginning, where I was talking about amounts in diet, that's more or less what you should be in taking every day in your diet, at the very minimum six milligram of spermidine through your diet. And so the clinical trials that we do specifically with our extract, use that amount. So we're talking, I'm more I don't believe in acute, very high levels for spermidine, other supplement might work, but what really works well is a sustained healthy level of autophagy, not a super acute amount of spermidine that that would create too much oxidative stress. Also, I mean, you're a crowd of doctors, so I can definitely talk about this. We try not to talk about using spermidine in case of people that have advanced cancer. So you may know that the sperm the polyamine metabolism, because, I mean, it's at the core of the the nitrogen metabolism in cells. It directs, it's linked to the to the cell cycle. And so tumors actually rely locally, and so at the level of the tumor on a little bit more autophagy to evade the immune system and maintain themselves. So locally, the tumor can increase the level of spermidine to trigger this autophagy to evade the immune system. So in some cases, too much spermidine cannot be good. We don't know really if there's too much of autophagy because there's not enough dosage studies in humans, but in the case of cancer, it could be the case. Now we also work with some researchers that are actually interested in using spermidine as a treatment to treat cancer, because it can also help strengthen the immune the immune response. So it's kind of a little bit of a gray area. What I will say is that the more the better. I don't think so. Try to mimic what what like I mean, if we want to live longer and live healthy, I think the best way to go about it is to look where people live healthy and live the longest, and that's going to be in the blue zone area. And those people, we know from just studies, from content of food and amount of food, they probably have a daily intake of spermidine that is closer to 2025, milligrams permitting. So I wouldn't go much higher than this in terms of supplementation. That's my take on it. I'm not an MD. I'm a biochemist. But, and there is not, like a definite answer on this, because there's not studies a number of developed countries in Japan and you are concerned or lower perfume, yes, okay, unfortunately, I did not bring those slides into this specific presentation. But spermidine, there's a great paper that came out two years ago in, let me try to remember, I think it was in nature, or nature cell biology that showed us permanent supplementation in mice was able to to increase fertility because he helped just rejuvenate all sites, so like the eggs In aged mice. So definitely can help with with fertility. There's other studies that show very promising effects that we don't really have data in humans just yet regarding fertility, but would highly recommend. I don't recommend, but I could recommend my friends to use sperm in if they're trying to conceive for sure. Okay, I think it's good, or at least to look into your diet properly. So just going back to just the presentation, just to show you that there is quite a bit of literature out there that definitely show this pathway, like here I'm talking about AMPK combined with exercise that these interconnected of ampkmtor, those transcription factor FOXO, that are going to trigger the synthesis of those autophagic effectors can really help with age related muscle atrophy, but also mitochondrial quality. So with energy overall, and a bunch of other age related diseases. I think the richest source literature out there right now with the benefits of supplementing sperm building would definitely be for neurodegenerative disease and cardiovascular disease. So I haven't highlighted those today because I think they're most more talked about, but those would be like the core of the literature there. So just to conclusion on the muscular skeletal health, the sperm helps by restoring autophagy, activating muscle stem cells via this path, pathway I talked about, it helps reduce inflammation, joint information, cartilage degradation, and just helps boost regeneration and function combined with exercise. So psychological benefits. Yes, there's a preprint so you can it's available publicly. It's not officially peer reviewed, because it's still in the process from our research partners actually using our extract. So I want to say that most of the clinical studies so far, the I've been using our extract specifically, just out of historical reasons, because the research partners that we work with that started longevity labs are out of the lab of Professor Frank Mario, which is the one that really linked spermidine With autophagy. So we have, like, a newer results that I could share, but they're not officially peer reviewed just yet, that show that a three weeks supplementation of spermidine, six milligram instruments, or in like a cohort of about, I think it was 60 people that had depression symptoms helped reduce depression symptom to the same level of pharmacological options. Why is that? Because in the paper, they show that people have depression, that their polyamine metabolism is actually affected and and so supplementing was able to just restore a little bit the balance and also decrease cortisol levels, which is linked to some of the symptoms. So that was a very exciting results. We haven't really talked about it just yet, until it's officially published, but that's the exciting benefits that we're all looking to be able to share more publicly, but I could share the pre print so the paper is out there. Yeah. So those are some of the clinical studies we've done. We can talk about this afterwards, once the presentation is done, what I wanted to highlight is that there's a lot of large longevity supplement they're going to act on different processes. A lot of them are actually going to help with autophagy, but spermidine is because it's part of food. Of all the food it's present in all living organisms, it's actually one of the safest out there. And there is a paper that you can find in bio Gerontology that compared about 124

Speaker 4  1:03:47
of those longevity, so called longevity supplements, and looked at total number of side effects, maximum probability of a side effect, and actually effect effects on the lifespan. So extension of lifespan and sperm really came out at the top in terms of a good compromise between proven increased lifespan and least amount of side effects, because we are already consuming, obviously at those physiological, those for humans. So just want to highlight that part. So yeah, so you can see this extension of lifespan in different species have been shown using supplementation. And so, yeah, so that was a good study. So with this, I think we can go into a Q, a if you have any other question. I'm not seeing any other in the in the chat right now, but I

Speaker 5  1:04:43
have a quick question for you, given that your top food that provides permitting such as wheat germ soy, if you look at those guys in the US, for instance, soy is the number two GMO, genetically modified to tolerate roundup wheat, we tend to spray roundup on it before we harvest it, so called pre harvest roundup spray. So how does that affect spermidine levels when you synthesize it or when people eat it?

Speaker 4  1:05:25
That's a great question. So the company I work for now, longevity labs, we make the which the spermidine supplement from wheat germ in Europe. So our company is actually in Austria, so we don't have Roundup. It's done from organic, non geo milk culture. And I do want to highlight one thing. Is the reason why we also stay and continue the production there is that the spermidine level that we've measured in several again, we haven't done the exhaustive with germ content in all the planet, but there is less spermidine in in the wheat germ we have tested outside of Europe. I don't know if it's related to so spermidine is produced by by the plants itself, and the level can actually vary a lot through the seasons, through depending on the years, depending on the place say it's, it's, there's a whole field of looking into spermidine in the plant biology world, because it's, it's an important it's an important communication. See, signal Well, signal molecule. And so the content vary a lot. And I would say that in the US, we've found that in a lot of those cultures, is a bit less like the base level is actually lower. So that's why, when people tell me, could I just eat with germ? Yes, you could, but like, it might not have that much permitting, because we already go through a lot of basic screening just to choose specific batches that can also vary depending on years before we actually go through the process of doing an extraction to make a parlor that's easily uptaken as a supplement. So I would say that, yes, like all with germ is not created equal, and it could be also that using those pesticide and herbicide can actually affect the amount of spermidine in the winter and definitely try not to consume with your that is being treated with Roundup

Speaker 5  1:07:32
in in Europe, the wheat species that you have, is it a the old because they have the old wheat and they have a new one that is genetically modified, and all of these other things. I mean, they have crossed this wood with many, many ways. Does that make any difference, also in terms of the content I was permitting. So

Speaker 4  1:07:54
it seems to be, we don't really have, like a really exhaustive study on it, but we use organic with German non GMO. So it would be closer to, like a non modified with German. Unfortunately, I don't have like extensive data to really back this up, but like from our anecdotal measurements, it seems to matter, definitely, in any case, at the end of the day in a supplement, you would be looking at the amount of spermidine that is in the final product, right? So this, we can guarantee we measure. This is part of the quality analysis, of course, but definitely, if you're gonna use permitting from a natural source, which I think is, is the best way to go about it, look at organic, non GMO source just to avoid those issue with the glyphosate, etc, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:08:50
Very good. Thank you. Thank

Speaker 6  1:08:52
you. I have a question. Have you ever tried sperm name and cardiac rehab program to see if the results might be better

Unknown Speaker  1:09:03
in sorry, in which program in

Speaker 6  1:09:05
cardiac rehab? In a cardiac rehab program? Oh,

Speaker 4  1:09:12
so we have done some clinical studies, very small cohorts, and we have one going on right now, which shows that supplementary seems to be helping with reducing high blood pressure, but also just improve, like some basic markers, like of cardiovascular disease, I would say, though, the literature out there on cardiovascular disease in mice and the benefits of spreading in it is huge. So definitely,

Speaker 6  1:09:42
it's like, there's definitely promise,

Speaker 4  1:09:45
yeah, it's a great supplement to why, because it really helps with mitochondrial

Speaker 6  1:09:54
Well, the other, the other question I had, I'm putting it, remember a number of developed countries, you know, you take Japan, and also in the EU, EU, they're concerned over a lower birth rate. It's gone down, and that's kind of scary in the long run. Can spermidine help in this regard?

Speaker 4  1:10:15
Yeah, I think I addressed this very quickly, but spermidine, because of this activation of autophagy in cellular cleanup, it really helps keep the germline cells healthy and functional. There is a paper that came out two years ago that showed that supplementation was permitted in mice that had that were aging, mice that had all sides of eggs that were not really functioning anymore, they were able to rejuvenate them. So just by process of stimulating this autophagy so he was able to improve fertility, they had more babies like the mice. We don't have similar studies in humans just yet. So I want to highlight also something. Spermidine is a natural molecule. There's not a lot of patent that you can do apart from processes and and specific condition where you can use it. So the incentive, the money incentives, to finance and clinical trial, is not there. So a lot of the clinical trials have been done with our product. We actually even pay for it, like researchers are interested in their own topic, reach out use a product in the clinical trial. So I would love to for all the studies to be done, like a bigger extent, especially regarding fertility for in human but unfortunately, the data is pretty limited, but the pre clinical studies in in mice is pretty

Unknown Speaker  1:11:37
convincing. You're a pioneer.

Speaker 4  1:11:42
I mean the company. I'm like the newer on the company, but like the the researchers that really started this, there were the first ones really on the market with the supplements for humans. So that's why most of the labs in the world reach out to them in the first place to use the supplement for the clinical trial. So we were very lucky in this regard that, like a lot of the data that is very interesting, was done using the products

Speaker 6  1:12:09
that we use. You think it might even help students study more effectively.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:17
I don't know. I don't know if

Speaker 4  1:12:20
you know the thing I would say, because, I mean, I'm not like a salesperson. It is in my in by default. But I think, like when you're young, and if you eat healthy, which might not be the case. I guess when you're younger, you may not even need to supplement that much. Maybe just look at your diet, the real moment where we see benefits in people, just by by means of testimonies people getting back to us, but also from the clinical studies, when people start entering the late 40s, supplementation really can make a difference, again, an obvious difference in terms of energy, in terms of just like so there are specific biomarkers that you can also measure that are improved, including those effectors from the autophagy symbol structure, but also the cholesterol level and stuff. This really started making a difference because parity levels and absorption decrease with age. So I think it's a good supplement to look into, especially when you're above 50 for sure

Unknown Speaker  1:13:23
after parties.

Speaker 4  1:13:28
I'm gonna be honest, I haven't done the test myself, but I would assume it could have for sure. So

Speaker 5  1:13:33
one quick one is it? Is it like resveratrol? For instance, resveratrol, they said that in order to get one capsule of resveratrol, you have to have, like, 11 bottles of wine to get one little capsule. Is it the same for spermidine, when someone is eating the spermidine rich foods, they have to eat tons of it to get one capsule of the supplement.

Speaker 4  1:14:05
No, it's not as crazy. There is a decent amount of spermidine in like in the food I mentioned, you will if you eat rather healthy, you should be able to intake about six to 10 milligrams per meeting in your diet, which is a reasonable amount. You kind of want to be able to double this. The problem is, if you double it through food, you take maybe too much calories, and then, and also you have the problem of too many calories, which also stimulate mTOR, which counter the effect of sperm building. So that was where the benefits of supplementing with your sperm in can help. So you, like, you don't need to eat too much. But I think if you wanted to to get the benefits without too many calories. Maybe that's where the supplementation is interesting, beyond before, just but obviously, I mean at the end of the day, I genuinely think it starts with food. So if you, if you want to skip the supplements, you should, but look into the food that have the highest amount of spermidine if you wanted to to get the benefits for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:23
So how does, how does spermidine Compare to rapamycin

Speaker 4  1:15:29
like so it's, it's even better than this, and unfortunately, it's not highlighted enough, I feel but for rapamycin to work efficiently, it needs spermidine. So rapamycin treatment. There's a study that is actually just like in the supplemental figure of this fasting study I showed in the Nature paper that came out last year. But what they show in this paper, and I kind of find it sad that they didn't make a paper in itself about it, but the rapamycin effect of inactivating toward triggering autophagy, it needs spermidine, so rapamycin supplement in mice increased permitting level, which then triggered autophagy. So without permitting, the rapamycin effect were not when we're not there. Basically in this whole study that I showed about autophagy, that was able to maintain stemness. In this study, they literally do, did a parallel with the same experiment using rapamycin and spermidine, and they were comparable. Now, again, at this dosage, and I can't remember the top of my head, in mice, they were comparable. We don't really have these, these exact studies in humans, so I can't tell you, also, I'm not knowledgeable enough in the dosage of rapamycin to give an opinion about it, but they should be able to to have a similar effect. I just cannot tell you which dosage that would be. And also, there's a lack of just general data on what is the ideal spermidine dosage in human we stay at around six milligram in clinical studies, that's where we've seen a lot of beneficial effect. It could be that 1012, milligram might be slightly better, but there could be also an inflection point from too much oxidative stress, and we just don't know just yet. So that's why we stay in like the window of ideal diet intake.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:37
Does spermidine have any effect on bone density?

Speaker 4  1:17:41
Yeah, there's, like, some of the studies that I kind of like brushed over quickly in the musculoskeletal topic here, but like some of them, definitely showed in mice an increase in bone density, for sure. Which one was it? Specifically? I think it was now, I don't remember. I think it was this one. Maybe I can find it like the specific data, but it was done. The big

Bill Clearfield  1:18:10
question is, we're always looking for, for an estrogen alternative for those who can't take it or don't want to take it, and would, would this be something that might be, you know, a substitute.

Speaker 4  1:18:27
So that's what this paper that just came out a few months ago is kind of hinting at, is that the so estrogen can be great for sure, for cardiometadic protection, but also it can also be an issue because it can increase the risk of reproductive cancers. And so spermidine might be able to mimic similar effects, cardiometabolic effects in menopause condition without triggering these, these or increasing the the odds of reproductive cancer. Again, this is preclinical studies in mice, so we don't have the data just using humans. But it could be that it, it might be a good alternative, or maybe like a combined approach, where you you slightly move away from the estrogen therapy. It really depends. I'm not an MD, so I don't really want to give my my two cents on it, but I invite you to look into this paper to get an idea. But again, this is just a pre

Bill Clearfield  1:19:30
clinical so far. So are there any, are there any lab values that are useful for following sort of spermidine levels at all?

Unknown Speaker  1:19:42
You mean, like levels in human we

Bill Clearfield  1:19:45
get, we can get a serial Linus level for rapamycin.

Speaker 4  1:19:50
Yeah. So the problem with spermidine levels is that it's actually for it to be efficient, it needs to be metabolized, or at least uptaken, modified this factory, if I so, in that sense, permitted levels cannot be really tracked easily. Also there the level in the blood. There is a couple of studies out there that were a little bit controversial in terms of whether supplementation affected the blood levels and and it's a bit complex, because it gets used easily. It also gets interconverted with other polyamine that haven't brought up spermine And putrescine, and so it's not that easy to just follow it and as a blood marker like this, I think the best thing you can do is, is measure biomarkers of autophagy, like those guys, from the autophagosomal structure. I mean, probably costs a lot of money to do this test, but I've seen, like some people do biomarker on this guy, LC, three, ATG, three, beclin one, also ULK, one, all those factors here can help track the effects of spermidine. That's what they use in preclinical studies in mice. Might not be that easy to access in humans, I'm not sure, or very cost.

Speaker 5  1:21:08
You said spermidine is synthesized from arginine and citrulline, or maybe I got it wrong. But if that's the case, is it close to growth hormone?

Speaker 4  1:21:24
So I mean, I mean, there's a little bit of a nature connection, I guess it use ornithine, which is derived from arginine. So I'm not sure if it interfere with hormones, like I

Speaker 5  1:21:39
said, is it? Is it close to growth hormone? Because growth hormone is arginine and some other components to it. So since we're doing the arginine and only fine and citrulline to do the experimenting.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:55
Would it be

Unknown Speaker  1:21:57
arnitin? Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:22:00
I so, I mean, it helps with growth, because it helps, at least in plants. We know that it directs cell proliferation, but it's also linked to cell proliferation in other organisms, so I'm not sure to answer specifically the question here, but

Unknown Speaker  1:22:20
I mean, what's, what's the

Speaker 5  1:22:23
what's, I'm trying to see there's some similarities between this as permitting and double growth hormone, since both of them, they have the same sources,

Speaker 4  1:22:32
right? No, I wouldn't say that there's similar really. I mean, at least what's been elucidated so far is this pathway here of activating this translation factor and the formation of this structure of the autophagism, which is going to help with the the recycling of the component. So I'm not sure. I'm not familiar enough with growth hormones, specific mechanism of action in regards to autophagy. To to give you a definite answer on this, but I can look into it. You just give me more. You see the difference?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:11
I'm just curious, because of the composition.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:14
It's a good question. I will I will look into it.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:22
What about some psychological or psychiatric benefits with spermidine?

Speaker 4  1:23:27
Yeah, someone asked this a little bit before, and I addressed it quickly. There's study that will come out, hopefully in the in the next few months. You can probably Google it, and the pre print is already accessible that shows that the polyamine metabolism is affected in people that have depression symptoms, and that supplementing with sperm in so in humans, it was done with our supplement was able to reduce depression symptoms, reduce cortisol level, to the same effect of other pharmacological options. So definitely can help with that. Would highly recommend someone that is experienced depression to try it, to give it a try. Also, because the time window in the study was pretty short, less than a month, so definitely would recommend someone to look into it. So it's an actual option. Also, you know, it's a food supplement, so rather safe to try.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:28
Okay. Dr Dario, do you have any email questions,

Speaker 3  1:24:32
yeah, I'm still wrapping my brain around the mice. That increases their hand grips. I guess they have little paws that they're holding on and testing. I don't know how they tested that, but they have probably like little grip machines for the little mice. But it's good. It happened, right? But one of the things I can tell you about sperm meeting is, out of all the longevity protocols that I've seen, especially in a forum, sperm meeting is actually one of the ones that are on top this is almost at the level of your lip and a even rapamycin and metformin. That's why it grabbed my attention when I saw you guys in a forum. So that's I'm a you. I'm a user. I mean, not a drug user, but I'm a big fan of your product, but because of the studies that I've seen behind it. So again, good results with this. The the thing that I think one of the bolstering facts here is why spermidine over the other anti aging or longevity medicines or supplements. It's just that it's a standout that the side effects of spermidine is very low for rapamycin, immunosuppression, Metformin, lactic acidosis, right? Resveratrol is very safe, but it's not as powerful as as a spermidine. That's why spermidine The the sell out. Reason why this is something that will be safe with, in terms with our patients, is just a safety profile.

Speaker 4  1:26:00
And to to link it to urolithin, a which is also a good supplement to activate mitophagy, I would say that the the edge of spermidine here is really it. It not only activates mitophagy, but autophagy in general. So it's going to help with proteostasis as well. Whereas urethra can be great, but it's really aim. Is really a niche for mitophagy specifically, and it's a different pathway that's activated, but they're both very good supplement to help just maintain, like a clean background. And the way I've been like, really, because I've been reading so much about it, is that, to me, seems like a very important base to set before you even start taking all the supplement is making sure you have a healthy level of autophagy going on. So like, a clean background before you start putting new stuff to, like, interfere with all those biochemical pathway you know. So that's the way I see. It's like, clean the plate, just add new stuff.

Speaker 3  1:27:04
Well, one curiosity here. So you mentioned about, of course, you activate this during fasting, right or protein deprived states. So when you take the supplement, should it be done with food, without food? I mean, now, how do you apply that?

Speaker 4  1:27:19
Yeah, so unfortunately, I'm going to give you my intuition, because I don't have data for that. The way I see it is that spermidine, you're already intake it with food, right? It originally comes from food, and that's how you activate autophagy. Now I will say that probably taking spermidine before, for example, you go to bed, that's what I do before you take food after. So you're going to go through an extended period of time without food. So especially if you do internal fasting, I think that might be the most efficient way to to to get the best out of your spermidine intake is to take it without too much, too much food. But I already have any data to back this up, but that would be my intuition,

Speaker 3  1:28:02
right? Okay, there are different delivery methods of spermidine. I have seen sublingual, oral, not sometimes, sometimes intranasal. But what is the best one in the studies that you've read?

Speaker 4  1:28:17
That's a hard one, because, I mean, the way they measure, the parameter that they measure, they're so different, it's hard to say most of the studies, whether it's pre clinical, well, actually clinical for sure, but pre clinical studies, they've been done through oral ingestion, whether it's permitting diluting the water from mice or through food. So this is most of the studies we've seen. However, there are some preclinical studies that show spermidine injected, for example, I think it was in the gum of mice that has sort of gum disease, and he helped basically reverse the gum disease, just by taking those cells out of senes and helping them just redevine properly. So I would say most of the data out there is from oral ingestion. So

Speaker 3  1:29:08
all right, yeah, I haven't heard of any injectable yet, but sure if it's out there, that would be nice to see. We were just talking about the safety of spermidine, but I'm sure any supplement, any medicine, we need to keep an eye out for a side effect or maybe a contraindication in this situation. Is there anything for spermidine?

Speaker 4  1:29:28
So no side effects that we know of. Again, everybody intake experimenting whether they want it or not, through food. However, contraindication just because of of like the very specific case of and the problem with the local tumor in case of advanced tumor. I'm not an MD, so I do not recommend, but I would not recommend someone to supplement. However, people that have advanced cancer still eat and still intake spermidine, and you can still benefit from supplementation in the other parts of your body. Just out of caution, we just tell people that have advanced cancer not to take it. However, supplementation in sperm with spermidine is linked with a decreased occurrence of cancer in the first place. So it actually helps to prevent cancer. In the very specific case of an advanced cancer, it could help locally, the tumor maintain itself, just to evade,

Speaker 3  1:30:25
let me say, advanced stage three, stage four, stage one, stage two. Pretty

Speaker 4  1:30:29
good. I don't know I would say. I would say stage three could already be too advanced. But again, I It's a hard one because i The data is not there, and someone that has stage three cancer still produce permitting in their gut, still ingest some and so the levels, it also depends what you ingest. I do not recommend to use synthetic form of spermidine that can go very high. Also like it's this pure form. We don't really know how it's absorbed, how it translates in blood levels. We have this data with natural sources, permitting, from our with your extract, we don't have this from synthetic so it all depends how much you intake, if you get at physiological dose. For example, the highest dose we propose is six milligram of daily supplementation, which is, by the way, the maximum dose allowed by the European Food Safety Agency for the food supplement. So I would not recommend to go higher than this. I think is still safe, even if you have cancer, but gray areas, we're trying to be cautious. So

Speaker 3  1:31:38
you mentioned about six milligrams. I always hear you mention that. So do you have specific the dosing tiers? For example, with six milligrams Tony, I have you, and then if you go down, like around four, two for healthy people as a maintenance

Speaker 4  1:31:54
I mean, so we have several products, and they just differ. They they just change from the amount of permitting in it. This is the base product. Is two milligrams per Dr Bill. Are we going to turn off the Oh, I'm not allowed to show this, but I can tell you just like, directly,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:11
you're good to go for now.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:15
All right, you can start voting, Melissa.

Speaker 4  1:32:19
I don't even need to show you, because, just to show you how it worked, initially, we only had those products that had two milligrams per million in the very first clinical trials that we've done that show effect, beneficial effect in neurodegenerative disease, so improvement in cognitive performance in people that had early onset of dementia that were done between one and two milligram. One milligram, I think it's a bit too the basic two milligram, you already start seeing some benefits, the only reason we have different levels. So three milligram in a sachet, and then this one, which is the highest, though, which is six milligram is just the cost the powder is the same. Is this wheat germ extract, and the amount of sperm in just changed the price, basically, of the final product. My take on it is that, if you're gonna supplement, supplement at least at six, at three milligram, six milligram would be your ideal dose. That's my, my take on it. It's also the more expensive one. So because to allow people to still get some benefits without breaking the bank, we have like those initial dose at 2 million, which are still great. And so the way we can tell people is like, Okay, start, at least with a higher dose for a couple of months to kick start the autophagy increase. And then you can stay at a maintenance dose for as long as you want. Like, again, there's, there's no it's like a vitamin D, 3k, to your your Omega three. You should be taking this every day, and it will be fine for the rest of your life. You know it's like a it's like a shower. You want to do it every day for the rest of your life, not just for like periods of time. When

Speaker 3  1:34:05
you mentioned about you're worried about getting anything higher than six milligrams, what are you worried about? Specifically, I'm not

Speaker 4  1:34:12
worried. I'm not worried. What I'm worried about is, like the synthetic form that some times you can find, and that are very questionable. And I will tell you one thing, because we are very high on, like, the analysis, we actually regularly test other supplements, especially synthetic one, and they never have the amount of spermidine They say they have. But that being said, Too much spermidine, and we don't know like the amount, how it translates from mice to human, but like too much spermidine in mice, was shown to trigger too much oxidative stress, and the only data we have so far of benefits in terms of cognitive performance, cardiovascular function, depression, they were done at six milligram. So that's why I say six milligram. And also because under the novel food approval that which is, it's not really the grass in Europe, but like, it's a it's a certification. They kept it at 6 million. It could be that, ideally, we find it down the road that 12 million was the best. I don't know, but that's why I also stay within the range that, like, is allowed by the European Food Safety Agency and the data. The only data out there is up to six milligram humans. So

Speaker 3  1:35:39
that's why, okay, go ahead and start, I guess we're on the slides. Then start promoting your good

Speaker 4  1:35:44
product. Favorite part talking about the product. So we have like, I said, I'm so bad at this, but we have like this. The base is the same. Is this extract from winter that is rich in spermidine, and it's guaranteed it's either coming from a capsule of the sachet, the your entry is going to be the extra, which has two milligrams of spermidine. This is great for people that hate sachet. Still going to give you a good, beneficial effects. This one is the same, just has extra plants, saffron flower extract and Brownie powder, which helps with memory, just like cognitive function. So this is a similar product, just with a more memory formula, let's say, and then and then, like, those are the ones that I prefer. But some people hate sachet. Just pack enough of the powder to have enough sparring. We have to make a sachet. Or you could just pop more pills of the of those guys. And that would be the same to mimic the amount. But this sachet daily takes three milligrams per minute, which is, I think, a great product, and he has a good I don't know the price out of the top of my head, also, because it's different for a practitioner, but that's a great dose. I think I prefer this one 6 million, because I think is the the one that really is going to help you, especially if you eat rather healthy. Let's say you get 12 million per minute in your diet every day. If you add this on top, you really get into these 1820, milligram daily dose that could be, we don't know for sure yet, but that seems to be like the ideal dose in those those epidemiological studies that have shown extension of lifespan. So that's why, that's my, my favorite for sure so far. And then we also have a product that has permitted and Nam, which is one of the precursor of NAD, which is the smaller one that we have a patent that shows that it helps with cardiovascular protection. So Nam, just like to show you quickly, is like the very small moiety of the big NAD molecule. The reason we use this is because there were some issues with NMN that is not regulated by FDA. But also this guy cross because it doesn't have the phosphate group, so the negative discharge group, it actually crossed the membrane more easily. And so the product also has the rivals, so the sugar and you have enough phosphate, usually, to to combine those two. So we've we've shown in the pattern that supplementing with Nam was able to increase efficiently NAD levels, and that both NAD and spermidine, or Nam and Sperling, was able to improve cardiovascular fraction in mice, so and like to decrease them the negative effects of too much NAD or Nam supplementation, because actually too much NAD can actually have negative effects on insulin and glucose intolerance. So spermidine, in this pattern that we show here, so if you have the reference you can look into, it was able to offset those negative effects from NAD and support mitochondria function. So those are basically the line of products we have. But yeah, my favorite definitely is this guy, which is the Pro, which has the highest dose. But again, some people really hate sachet. This is a sachet that you take every day, you could also just take the pill. So the daily dose is two pills. That's two milligrams per minute. You could just be popping more pills to reach the six milligram daily.

Speaker 3  1:39:25
Yeah, those those boxes, the one in boxes. They're pretty expensive, but I now I understand why they are. It's really, it's really worth your money, from the sound of how you're

Speaker 4  1:39:37
but, and the reason, to be honest, I wish we could cut costs. But the problem the process of extraction is so costly that, like, there's no work around it, and now we're getting hit by tariffs, because we import from Austria, and so hopefully we haven't, we've been able to maintain the price so far. But like, let's see if that continues.

Speaker 3  1:40:00
I Well, you know the the diagram that you showed there about a and Mn, N, E, D and R. I like, I like pictures. So I was still kind of not understanding the concept of everything. Once I saw the diagram that you have, that made it easier for me to understand. Now the differentiation of these and even the penetration through the

Speaker 4  1:40:20
cell, yeah, and it is a huge molecule. So definitely, if you don't suck in with the entity, because it doesn't really pass the membrane at all, element is like the smaller part of it, so like, just the this part here, and it does work. We know that, obviously there is a lot of studies that show supplementation of NMN raised energy levels. Now we don't have comparative effects and studies that shows, but my take on it would be the phosphate group, the negatively charged. It's actually not that efficient to pass the plasma membrane, that's the case of most negative charged molecules. And so also, like, there was some, I'm not sure what's the status of it, but for a while there was question whether mm was still going to be supplement that is accessible because of FDA regulation regarding some clinical trials. I'm not sure. So we had walked away from mm and just set up Nam, and that's what we use right now, which seems to be working great.

Speaker 3  1:41:21
Are you selling this in Austria? I'm going to go to Austria soon. If I get it from there, will I get it? So

Speaker 4  1:41:26
in Austria, it's actually found in pharmacies in Germany as well. So you can actually find a product in pharmacies. Could be cheaper actually, in years. I'm not sure. I'm not the person to ask that, because I'm not very good at money numbers. Yeah, I'm gonna look for it when I get there. Yeah, not for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:50
Okay, any any other questions, dark scenario.

Speaker 3  1:41:54
I guess this is just for my own personal interest. What is the future of spermidine? As you could see in research studies, your researcher what is in the horizon as you now explore this longevity supplement,

Speaker 4  1:42:11
right? I think at least it's not really on the direct future for us, because, like I said, we're still a smaller, small, sized company, so we don't really finance those clinical trials. But I think what's the limiting step here to really get a fuller, better vision of it is dosage studies and specific studies in humans. So more clinical trials and more dosage studies, whether it's for cardiovascular protection, neurodegenerative protection, neurodegenerative diseases and neuroprotection, fertility, this is missing definitely more more data. Again, the pre clinical data is great. There's a lot of it, but like, translating this in human studies would be ideal.

Speaker 3  1:43:04
Well, thank you. Dr canano, that was a great presentation. You got all my questions out of the field, so hopefully we can have you back. Dr Bill, would you put him, put her on? Thank you for

Unknown Speaker  1:43:15
the engagement. I really appreciate the dynamism, for sure. Oh,

Speaker 7  1:43:20
I have a question. I have a question, like in mice, usually, how much dose you use in mice per gram, or how you measure

Speaker 8  1:43:31
the weight? Yeah, so in milligram per kilo. So let's say

Speaker 4  1:43:41
I would need to double check. But I would say it would probably, if you were to translate per kilo in humans, it would be much higher than the dosage with using human, you would might it could be five to 10 times what we use in human. And again, it depends on studies. There are so many different levels that are being using in mice that I cannot give you a single answer, but it definitely would be high, for

Speaker 7  1:44:06
sure, because there is a table where you can translate the dosages that use in mind to translate to

Speaker 4  1:44:13
humans, yeah, but because of epidemiological studies and consumption human and they never, they've never used high such high levels in humans, not sure. I mean, I Yeah, that's a good question. Why they've never pushed it further than this, because there actually haven't been enough clinical studies so far, and most of them have done with our extract. So So yeah, definitely.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:45
I was just wondering.

Speaker 4  1:44:48
No, that's a good question. And I can see a question and say, Have you done any studies in nursing homes? We had a very early clinical studies that was done in a nursing home in Austria, in people that had Parkinson disease. Unfortunately, the data were never really published, but what they did see is like a reduction in tremors in people that were supplementing for six months in this nursing home. Again, was a very small cohort of about 20 people, but there was an interesting effect enough that they kept looking into neuro protection and exploring this further.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:36
How do you order

Speaker 4  1:45:39
it? So there's, if you go to our websites, permitting life.us, you can put in the check here, there is a practitioner portal. You can create an account, and you get the practitioner price, which I'm not sure is about 45% of the retail price that you will see on the website. So you can do this, and you can also email this guy, which is our account manager that works with doctors, and he can help you with all this,

Speaker 3  1:46:17
if it's Vladimir. Yeah, yep, I've met Vladimir in a for m,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:25
that's, that's him. I want

Speaker 4  1:46:29
to make sure I write his last name properly, because I yeah, let him know he

Speaker 3  1:46:35
got me to buy the expensive one. So that's how good this guy, the

Bill Clearfield  1:46:42
guy, that person. That's why you haven't aged this two years Doctor narrative,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:48
because they got my money in a good way.

Speaker 4  1:46:54
Stuff. Love talk to about science, so like, if you want to, and also answers about accounts. But this guy is very easy. He's an awesome

Bill Clearfield  1:47:04
guy. 55 gallon drum, uh, size.

Speaker 9  1:47:07
I need it. Hey. Are you talking about Vladimir? K,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:14
um, he

Speaker 9  1:47:17
was, he was one of the Russian geniuses, multi trained in like everything in the world, escape through, escape through Israel. Came to the United States. Blew my mind and everybody else. I just thought he might be the same guy, because he's,

Speaker 4  1:47:32
I'm not the same guy. He's from Serbia, so, like, could be a little bit of a Russian link here, but I don't think it's the same guy. How much, roughly, someone is lacking, it's so, like, I don't know if it's for you as a practitioner, it would be much less, but then you would get, like, a margin. Again, I'm not the person to answer this properly, but let's say, for a retail customer, if you were to use like, the entry product, the extra, which is two milligram, I think it's about 50, $60 per month, like for one month, supply for one box, One box is one month. This one would be probably, I think, 80 or $90 I'm not sure. And this one is more expensive. This one actually might be a bit more. This one could be 110 because this one is about two to 20 months the six milligram. Please don't quote me on this. I'm not the person. So you will. You can find the prices for retail customer online, but then, as a practitioner, you would get more or less, and it depends on the product, about 45% of the price.

Speaker 3  1:48:47
Listen, we have international doctors here in the Philippines. Is that something that they can avail of, is there a way to get it from there? Yeah, 100%

Speaker 4  1:48:59
I mean, I think so, because we, I've seen, I've talked to customers in other countries, usually people in Europe, they go through the Europe platform. So we have, like a team in Austria, but for the rest of the world. It goes through the US, usually, and so, yeah, just like, like I said, just visit the website or email this guy, really, this guy, Vladimir is, is the guy you want to talk to. You will help answer any question. You will know all about, like, shipping and stuff and and, yeah, it'll be the great it has all the answers. I only have the scientific ones.

Speaker 3  1:49:35
The doctor bill, I think Jay Campbell, has spermidine liquid form, so I don't know if it's comparable to our spermidine life

Bill Clearfield  1:49:46
here. I'm sure if you asked him, he'd tell you it's 25 times better. For sure,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:54
this is the best.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:57
Just ask him. So, okay, alright, anybody else have any comments or questions?

Speaker 7  1:50:05
Yeah, one more question. So this permitting at lower dose, it's not oxidative, only at higher dose increases up.

Speaker 4  1:50:15
I mean, in the dose that was oxidative in mice, that's the only data. It was. It was a ridiculous amount for human comparison. I think it was about 100 milligram a day, something no one would ever take anyway. So there is, it's actually, it has antioxidant properties. There is some paper that show that he can actually directly scavenge some reactive oxygen species. So it activates autophagy, that's the main thing it does. But it also has antioxidants and anti inflammatory, inflammatory properties, so it actually should help fight oxidative stress. There's plenty of studies that show that supplementation can help reduce a lot of the oxidative stress, increase enzyme that fights oxidative stress. When I say, like too much of it country or oxidative stress, it might be like a ridiculous amount of human I don't have the data, but there is a possibility that too much of it might not be good. It will not be in the range of any supplement you may be finding out there, including synthetic ones. So you should be safe in terms of a oxidative stress.

Speaker 7  1:51:24
And my next question, one more question I have about natto. So Natto, it's it has also bacillus subtilis, and you said that sperm meeting is found in natto How about nattokinase?

Unknown Speaker  1:51:42
I don't know

Speaker 7  1:51:45
that it's an enzyme. Probably, no, I don't know, to be honest. I mean, yeah, it should be an it's an enzyme. So there should not be in the only in the natto, because

Speaker 4  1:51:58
I'm exactly so like, I can already answer your question, but I can look into it if you

Speaker 7  1:52:05
and how much not we have to eat in order to get six milligrams of spermidine. Do you know? Oh,

Speaker 4  1:52:11
my God, I don't know that could be an easy answer question, if I had my table, which I don't have here on this computer, of the amount per gram of Natto, but I think a portion, a couple of portion, of natto. They did some studies with this in in Japan, I think it was had a reasonable amount that it can help you reach easily six milligram. I've never even seen Natto, to be honest. Like, I don't even know if it's a common thing

Speaker 7  1:52:45
one time, one time, I was doing home visits to Chinese patients in flashing, and I met a woman. She was 80 something years old, and she looks so young, and she was so energetic, like unbelievable. She looked like 15, like so much energy and so sharp, and everything

Unknown Speaker  1:53:04
I was thinking.

Speaker 7  1:53:09
Then she told me that she's eating not. I asked her what she eats and whatever, I don't know she was having Natto, and she took me to the store to show me the job she she used to say that they call it Japanese natto.

Speaker 4  1:53:21
Yeah. I mean, there are plenty of papers, and I can, if you send me an email to remind me, I could send you the tables, we can easily find that answer, because there's plenty of like Food Studies, analysis of spermidine content, and so I'm sure we can find that answer pretty easily. But yeah, definitely someone that consumed natto every day probably doesn't need supplement, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:47
Oh, what? I'm sure, Dr Cano that you're really 86 years old that spermidine is on one day.

Speaker 4  1:53:54
That was actually the the twist at the end of his presentation. I'm 40. I'm going to be 40 now in a few months.

Speaker 7  1:54:04
It's amazing. It looks so young. You look like Tony,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:09
I'm telling you all

Bill Clearfield  1:54:14
right. Everybody, we're thank I can't thank you enough. And this was a fascinating talk, and is a terrific supplement. You know, it's something that's newer on the horizon for some of us, more mature bucks, right? Doctor Burgess

Speaker 9  1:54:36
got it. This was a wonderful talk. It kind of took our intelligence edge up a little bit. Thank you.

Speaker 4  1:54:44
Thank you for the engagement. I really appreciate it. Thank you,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:49
great. How does spermidine life, feel about coming to Reno in December for a weekend, a weekend conference to sponsor

Unknown Speaker  1:54:59
Sure, yeah, for sure that could definitely

Bill Clearfield  1:55:05
so. So anybody, anybody out there, who, who thinks they might want to present, will probably going to have the program settled within a week. So, you know, get in touch with me, or Dr Nario or Dr Burgess, because we, we've got lots of speakers now. Now we need customers. Get people in the seats. So this roommate, we has only old 60. We kind of did it that way on purpose. We'll have it online also again, December, 4, fifth and sixth in Reno. And we'd like to have some sponsors, Dr cannon,

Speaker 4  1:55:41
I will definitely pass the information. I don't

Bill Clearfield  1:55:45
it'll be a lot less expensive than a 4m I can assure you that

Speaker 4  1:55:50
me send me like an email that I can, like, transfer to the appropriate persons who came to this Fisher, okay? And

Bill Clearfield  1:55:59
next week we have Dr Andrew Campbell, so you know, he's our Michael guy. He's been on a couple of times, and he always has something interesting to to offer. So that's next week. And so don't miss it. Bring your friends, bring your bring your molded mold, moldy patients and to learn, to learn something new, any, any effect of spermidine against mycotoxins? Dr Cano, uh,

Speaker 4  1:56:29
none of more. There's no studies that I'm aware of great effect on the for dysbiosis and the gut microbiome and so yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:40
should help. And of course, I didn't ask, I didn't ask my usual question that I asked every speaker, what are the effects of the spermidine on hormones?

Speaker 4  1:56:50
So there's actually clinical studies in humans that showed that he helped increase estrogen levels in women, increase a little bit testosterone in men, decrease cortisol levels. It was I wrote actually. So if you are not subscribed to our practitioner newsletter, do it because I write almost every week a blog where I synthesize some of the literature about specific topics. Or you can just go on sperm live.us, go to the blog, the Learn section, and you will find, like I wrote the whole blog about hormones and like some of the studies that came out, so it kind of helped pretty well with hormonal balance in women and men.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:32
There you go. All right, now the next question,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:38
can I regrow hair? My

Speaker 4  1:57:41
well, okay, yes, there is some studies that show that you can have not enough clinical studies, but it helps push back the hair follicle into the antigen phase, so the long phase of growth and take the cells out of citizen. So it helps with growth. Hair Growth, definitely. Now I don't say it's going to repopulate a whole bald head.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:04
Sure. Is there hope for Dr Burgess?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:08
I don't know that he needs any hope. He's

Bill Clearfield  1:58:11
showing you off his canvas. There is there any hope? Did you fall asleep? John,

Speaker 9  1:58:23
I'm sorry I was sending you a message. Bill, I talked to David Conn today, and he's always been one of our supporters, and he talked about sponsoring, so please give him a call.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:35
Alright, we'll do okay. All right, I gotta talk to talk to God Dr Gerber, also about getting the web. Guy should be back from Burning Man by now, unless he's the one who passed away. So

Speaker 3  1:58:53
we got some a 4m superstars on board already. So just to give our audience heads up, we're getting the the big guns in here for our December event.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:04
Guns into our, into our little, into our little, little group here.

Speaker 3  1:59:07
So you're, you're a big gun. We're, yeah, we're getting all the other big guns together along with your level.

Speaker 7  1:59:14
All right, so wondering what bacteria in the microbiome, microbiome makes the sperm meeting. So

Speaker 4  1:59:24
actually, some of bacillus, I think it was septillus, okay? Hmm, I could look into it. It's just like a couple that I know of, at least there were some from ba series, for sure. So and like, there are some studies out there that also show that supplementing with sperm in house repopulate with those specific bacteria that themselves produce more sperm in so it's kind of a virtuous cycle here to help even increase indulgence level spermidine from your gut microbiome to supplement. So it's kind of like it's a whole nother field I need to write about at some point. But just feel like it never ends. There's always, like, some interesting stuff. When you look into spermidine. I discerning.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:15
Okay? And then there's the link for the CME credits, if you want those, anybody using that and two ama CME credits, it's always the same, same link there. The number is 11446, and I always put it in the in the weekly email also. So, okay, so any last words, Dr Cano, any, any summary, any send you send, send us you always want to send us off. So, you know, singing the lead song

Speaker 8  2:00:48
and just yeah, like, just make sure

Speaker 4  2:00:53
that you maintain healthy levels, whether it's through food, which I always believe, it starts with food, and if you want to make sure you have enough daily, a supplement is a good idea. Highly recommend to stay natural route for many different reasons, we could get into it, but yeah, I think it's an unsung hero for longevity that doesn't get enough credit to my in my opinion, but yeah, just keep looking out there for the scientific literature. It speaks for itself. So and reach out if you have any question that comes out after our talk. I left my email in the chat. It's also in the presentation. I think you will share the slides as well if you want. And so my email will be

Bill Clearfield  2:01:37
you could send them to me. Is it okay if we put it on our website? Oh, yeah, 100% Yeah, for sure. Okay, that would be great. Yeah, definitely. I'll be sending you the participant list. So okay, and also the

Speaker 8  2:01:53
video, Okay, sounds good. Thank you all

Bill Clearfield  2:01:57
right, everybody. Anything else? Thank you going twice.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:09
Okay, good night. Thank you so much. Dr Cano, for your for your time and your and your expertise. And I and and and for you for being here with us. Okay, everybody, see you next week. Doctor, Andrew Campbell will be with us, we'll be learning more about mo more about mold that we need to know, we'll want to.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai