Unknown Speaker  00:06
You. Hey, Hi, Dr Taylor,

Speaker 1  00:16
how are you Hey? How are you doing? Hey, good to see you doing great.

Bill Clearfield  00:19
Thank you so much for being with us. Really appreciate it.

Speaker 1  00:23
Thank you for inviting me. It is nice to be remembered.

Bill Clearfield  00:27
Oh yeah, I remember you. I remember you. You were, you were a dynamo.

Unknown Speaker  00:32
Oh man, yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  00:35
Well, way back, way back when. I mean, I hated being a doctor. I mean, I hated it, yeah, and I always knew there was something else out there. And I'd gone to the UCLA acupuncture school, and I did protein sparing, modified fast, and I did all of that kind of stuff. And after the matrimonial litigation years, the dog died, the kids moved away,

Speaker 1  01:02
yeah, that's a, that's a big transition point. I talk about that in relationships, and how the stress of life changes end up, you know, causing relationship problems. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  01:13
So, you know, I, I put it on the on the flyer, on our on our email flyer, your video from 2010 Yeah, and you were talking about stress dominance back then.

Speaker 1  01:29
I know, you know, let me tell you. Let me tell you. Dr Clearfield, I decided, like two years ago, I was going to get into longevity medicine. So I paid for a longevity medicine course, and I took the course, and I said, Wait a minute. They're talking about what I was talking about 20 minutes. I mean, 20 years ago, talking about stress and how that shortens your life. And I'm like, Man, I already, I've been talking about longevity for 20 years, and I didn't know it well.

Bill Clearfield  01:59
They're looking for the one thing that's going to let you, let you live another 50 years, I guess, yeah, without, without becoming decrepit. I think that's, that's the whole

Speaker 1  02:08
thing. Yeah, exactly. So I guess

Bill Clearfield  02:11
the rapamycin thing didn't work out so well.

Speaker 1  02:15
So how long have you so you're here to this organization here.

Bill Clearfield  02:21
Yeah, it's a story. So the original organization was the American College of Osteopathic. American Osteopathic College of Rheumatology, and it was the, it was the family practice, sort of wing of Rheumatology. It was started in 1972 Believe it or not, Oh, wow. It was a sub specialty of the AOA all the way up to 2022 Oh, wow. Okay. It got dropped in my lap around 2017 2018 somewhere around there. Okay, we ran conferences and we, you know, but you know, the rheumatologists went over to the internal medicine people, and so we attracted most. And I, you know, I, I was the A for Emer and ammc and all of that stuff. So we were attracting. We were attracting. You'll see them tonight. Okay, okay, yeah, you know we were directing that crowd. Yeah. And then came, then came 2022, and I had the bright idea that we should change our charter from rheumatology, rheumatic diseases to integrative medicine. Big mistake. Well, well, remember the a 4m was, was, was started by by two do's, who Dr clats and Dr Goldman. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. They went to the AOA with that, their idea in the early 90s. And they got, you know, they told them, you know, get, you know, I was at the, I was at the A for M in December in Las Vegas. They had 9000

Speaker 1  04:11
people there. Wow, so it's back then back back around, you know, I just got tired of traveling, man, and that's why I'm like, I'm here in my spare bedroom, and I can do the same things that I was trying to teach and flying around because it ended up, man, wearing me out.

Bill Clearfield  04:29
Yeah, I know I'm getting there too. So I do like, I do like going. I kind of use the trips as my, my sort of little, sort of mini vacations. Yeah, I'm going, I'm going to Miami twice next month and the month after. And I was there. My kids were there last month visiting their other grandfather. So I went, so, three trips to Miami, and four, four months from, from Nevada, yeah. But so, so we, we were doing pretty well. We went to so OMED is the AOA, sort of yearly scientific convention, and they'd get three to 5000 doctors there. So a for M gets seven to 9000 Yeah, right, yeah. So the last time we were at a live Omid, we we were the third highest attended sub specialty. They had family practice, internal medicine and then us, and that's counting OB GYN, neurology, neurology and psychiatry, all of the physical therapy things they did, yeah and but they really didn't like the they didn't like the integrative medicine, and we had a live conference in Las Vegas in March of 2022 and that's when the investigation opened. I found out the same weekend, and so two weeks before their summer, I should go through this again. The bottom line is, they threw us out.

Speaker 1  06:04
Yeah, hey, you know, you know, I talked about, I talked about getting out of line, you know? So that's a, I don't have a problem with that. That, yeah, Caterpillar, I

Bill Clearfield  06:14
think, I think you'll find, you'll find everybody on here is pretty much of like mind, or they wouldn't be here. We've been doing this since 2020 since, I guess, October of 2020 just about every Tuesday. I think I've missed two in five years. I think last year 2024 to 2025 I think Christmas and New Year's was Tuesday night. And I said, That's it. I'm not dope. But we've been here every, every Tuesday you'll see dr Nario over the third one over from me. Yeah, okay, he's my one right hand man. The other, the guy with the beard there, he's my he's my other, he's my other right hand man. So Dr naryo is taking Dr Wiles integrative medicine fellowship. So usually start, we usually start with a tip of the week, okay? And from, from Dr Nario, and he gives us, he tells us what he's been learning there, you know, for the last week. So the rest of us don't have to go,

Unknown Speaker  07:16
I'm thinking the juice,

Speaker 1  07:19
yeah, you know, I went out to he had a, like, a 10 day course. This was 25 years ago, out in Canyon Ranch in Arizona, and you got to experience all of this stuff. And it was really nice. I haven't taken the whole, I think that was when he was just starting the course, and he was like, giving these 10 day introductory things. So, yeah, right. I used to follow Dr, wow, yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  07:45
So, yeah, I met him. I met him actually before he had a beard. So you can imagine how, oh, wow, yeah.

Speaker 2  07:51
Well, the fellowship has grown now. It's 3000 fellows now, since he started the program. So yeah, we're in the bottom of the food chain here. Everybody's kind of on top of of us. But yeah, and he's still, he's 80 he's 84 I think. And he's walking, talking and doing his thing.

Speaker 1  08:13
Yeah, hey, that's the way I plan to keep on going until I can't go anymore. So I'm 65 so I got 20 more years, maybe I can do this, so we'll see. It makes it a lot easier, that I can sit in my spare bedroom and do this, and I'm not traveling around like I used to. So that makes it nice.

Speaker 2  08:33
But go ahead, you're a mentor, one of Dr Bill's mentors for hormones, so he speaks highly.

Speaker 1  08:40
Okay, hey, well, I don't know about that. Hey, you'll see I'm a

Bill Clearfield  08:44
simple kind of guy. I've seen you. I've seen you on view medi a few times. Okay, you know it always rings a bell. Yeah, you know, your name always your name, your name and your voice always rings a bell. You were one of the ones that I don't know if you saved me or not. Yeah, I always say, if I hadn't found hormone optimization, I'd probably be driving an Uber,

Speaker 1  09:06
yeah, yeah. So I yeah, I am, yeah. I'm happy to get back on the in the saddle again. I kind of stopped this in 2016 when my sister passed away right when I was about we had a conference. We had American functional medicine Association, me and my wife were doing and we had our conference in 2016 and two weeks before that, my sister passed away with breast cancer, and we just, I'm sorry to hear that. Yeah, we just said we can't do this anymore. So I really haven't been, I haven't really been out and about doing this for since 2016 and then I had a patient come in and said, Doc, you gotta get on social media, because it's a lot of crazy things being talked about. And so I took your advice and got on view Maddie and all this. And then Dr Clearfield, and so, you know, right when I went right when I thought I was out, they pulled me back in again. So, so I'm back,

Bill Clearfield  10:07
we will nudge you as far as you wish to be, yeah. So we are. We are. So we did have in December, the beginning of

Speaker 3  10:15
December, hello, Eldred, yes, I was in the first group of fellows through the A for m, and I knew your lectures was one of the first ones I remember hearing. And you're talking about, get out of line. Don't be Caterpillar,

Speaker 1  10:31
you know, you know, I tell you, that's when you had a mustache. Yeah, yeah. Hey, I shaved off my mustache so I could look younger. So I did. But you know, let me tell you this caterpillar story. It has a life of its own. I'm not going to do it tonight. I'll send you a video of it. But let me tell you one of, one of the guys who I knew from, you know, back then, he's, he's sick. He's not doing well. So his wife called me, well, I actually saw his daughter, and his daughter said, Oh, you're Dr Taylor, my dad would love to talk with you. So I called him, and he wasn't feeling well, and she went and said, you know, dr, Taylor's on the phone. He wanted to talk to you all the caterpillar line guy. This guy is, I mean, he's really not doing well, and his mental capacity is not that. But he remembered the caterpillar story. I'm like, Man, this is crazy. So, so anyway, I know it's time. How much time do we have? Is it 60 Minutes or 90?

Bill Clearfield  11:28
Oh, yep, not yet. We've gone two and a half hours sometimes. Oh, my goodness, okay. Dr halasa, when he starts talking me, you know, whatever. So, so, but it's time, I guess it gets time to get started. So Dr Nario, yes. Center, all right. So you're looking very casual today. You better be home.

Speaker 2  11:49
You better not be okay. Good. The snow is pouring bad in here, yes,

Bill Clearfield  11:54
yeah, yeah. We had a lot of snow here today. Those of you that aren't in the Reno area, it's still snowing. So, you know, I moved, I moved out of Northeast Pennsylvania to get away from the weather. Here we are.

Speaker 1  12:09
Yeah, it's 72 degrees in Atlanta today. All right, well, we

Unknown Speaker  12:14
another reason to hate you.

Speaker 2  12:19
All right. Take it away. Take it away. All right. So as we continue our journey for the past few weeks into indigenous medicine and psychedelics, we already have discussed about ketamine, so last week's webinar, of course, kratom, Ibogaine, and now let's move into a mainstream conversation that patients are increasingly asking about. It's Ayahuasca. And I see this a lot with my patients, and they're asking about it. I can't be in the know. I need to know what it is, and I'm going to give it to you the Andrew Weil style on how we learned it. So today isn't about endorsing or dismissing, it's about understanding the pharmacology well enough that we don't just blink twice and change the subject. So Ayahuasca is a botanical combination of binisteriopsis copy. So this is the vine and Psychotria varieties the leaf. It's a combination of two herbs, thus creating the name Ayahuasca. So the leaf provides DMT, Dimethyltryptamine, the vine provides b carblines, which act as reversible Mao a inhibitors. So one plant contains a psychedelic, the other plant makes sure it's actually working. So without the MAL inhibition, DMT is metabolized too quickly. With it, you get a four to eight hour serotonergic experience that patients describe as intense, which is this is the physician code for profoundly destabilizing, if poorly screened, if we don't know what we're talking about. So mechanistically speaking, Ayahuasca agonizes serotonin receptors, which is specifically five HD two way modulates glutamate signaling and reduces Default Mode Network rigidity and even increases global brain connectivity. So may act acutely even increase BDNF. So neuroimaging shows decreased self referential processing, meaning the ego quiets down, so which, for some patients, is therapeutic, but for others it's terrifying. So it's less a mood booster and more a network disruptor. So human evidence is meaning the studies that we have here, 2019, double blind RCT, placebo controlled trial by Paul Hano Fontes et al. 29 patients with treatment resistant depression tested a single dose of Ayahuasca versus placebo. It showed rapid antidepressant effects with significantly lower mad RAS scores in the Ayahuasca group at days one and two, and especially day seven, and where the effect size was large at day seven, response rates were 64% for ayahuasca and 27% for placebo, and remission trended higher at 36% for ayahuasca and 7% for placebo. So this landmark small RCT provided the first controlled evidence of Ayahuasca is fast and potent benefits in treatment resistant depression, though, larger studies are needed, observational studies showing reduced depression and substance misuse among ceremonial ceremonial users, as you can see, this is done in ceremony, like in Brazil and I think, Peru and small perspective trials demonstrating rapid antidepressant effects lasting for weeks, so no clear signal of long term cognitive impairment in structural settings. So limitations of studies, of course, small sample sizes, cultural context, variable dosing and no standardized protocols. So we are not talking about a plug and play botanical unfortunately, but this is where we earn our medical licenses, the risks that we need to explain to our patients, hypertensive episodes, serotonin syndrome, especially with SSRIs, SNRIs and stimulants, psychological destabilization, mania and psychosis in predisposed patients, and, of course, cardiovascular strain, so absolute contraindications, bipolar psychotic disorders, Active cardiac diseases and concurrent serotonergic medications. This is not camomile tea, everyone. So clinical takeaway here Ayahuasca is pharma, I guess, pharmacologically potent, psychologically intense, highly dependent on screening and setting so our job isn't to be the fund police. It's to screen medications, assess psychiatric risks, identify cardiovascular vulnerability and counsel without judgment. So that's our tip or leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  16:26
Great, other than Dr Burgess. Where do we get this stuff?

Speaker 2  16:31
You can't it's illegal. It's classified as one classification, one year in the US. Do you go to Peru or you go to, yeah, Brazil, to do the ceremonies. My patients actually go there to do that Brazil. Yeah, you

Speaker 1  16:46
know, you know, I have a patient who goes back and forth to Peru, and somehow, if it's connected to a religious ceremony. So she does them here in Atlanta, somehow she's connected to some kind of religious, some kind of organization, and she can do it legally. And I have been tempted to go do it. She keeps telling me, I should do it. I should do it. But, yeah, I have a patient who is really big into it. She goes back and forth to Peru, like twice a year, right?

Speaker 2  17:19
So that's the only, that's the only exclusion by the government that it actually allows the use of ayahuasca. So this is granted for religious reasons. So if you can prove that, I think you're good to go,

Speaker 1  17:31
yeah, it's not me, yeah. But she, she somehow has proven it, because she does these ceremonies like once a quarter. So yep, yep,

Speaker 4  17:40
okay, yeah. There are places in Florida that you can do this to religious retreats in Florida, yeah, and Hawaii,

Speaker 2  17:49
Oh, sounds like it's everywhere. Places here, they have to be a minister. Has to be a minister because it's in your

Bill Clearfield  17:57
state, Wilkes, Barre, Pennsylvania. That's the that's the real

Unknown Speaker  18:01
gotta know a guy that knows a guy? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  18:06
I know, I know a few of the funeral directors there. All right, everybody. We have a special guest tonight. Dr Eldredge Taylor was one of my first, if not the first, mentor that I had, or my at the beginning of my Renaissance, from a a real doctor to going over to where we are now in the dark side. Dr Eldredge Taylor is a board certified physician educator with, I hate to say decades of experience. But that's decades of experience. If does anybody read, go through any of the emails that I send out on the in the email, there's actually a video of Dr Taylor from about 20 years ago, and use it a little bit more hair and a mustache. Same voice now, and he is really to me. He and Dr Byerley piped up just a few minutes ago. Also he was one. He was one of the one of the ones who sort of turned the light on for me anyway. So it's his. What's his fault that I've been annoying you for the last five years, because otherwise I'd be driving an Uber Yeah. So Dr Taylor is known for his work reframing hormone imbalance through tissue level signaling, signaling and stress dominance, rather than isolated lab values. And I know he's big on saliva testing. He's lectured internationally as a regular contributor on view medi, where His work focuses on restoring clinical clarity when conventional testing fails to explain persistent symptoms. He was such a sort of hero to me. I when I, when I contacted him through the view medi, sort of portal there. I was a little sort of hesitant. You know, was I worthy of his attention here. So, so the video, he sent it. He sent a video that it wasn't in the form that I could put in the email, but there is a link to it, and all right, I do have a bunch. I watched it four times because there's a couple things in there that I have some questions on so I'm really anxious to hear what you have to say that he's going to be speaking about stress dominance. And you know, most of us know that stress pretty much dominates our lives. So Dr Taylor, the floor is yours, right? Usually what we do is, you do your presentation. We usually, we usually hold questions to the end, unless you want them in between, and then, then we do a Q and A thing also is, everybody I'm getting Can everybody hear I'm home tonight. I'm not in the office because it's we had snow here. I can hear, okay. Everybody hear, okay. I hear okay, okay. I can hear. Doctor Taylor,

Speaker 1  21:08
okay, alright. Well, hey, you know, I kind of feel like I'm preaching to the choir, because, you know, I know you get, if you're here, like, say you're of like, mind, and I will be very honest with you. Dr Nario, I don't have all of the RCT and all of that stuff. I am a simple, simple guy, and what I'm going to present today is very simple, I'll tell you I talk about, I don't do any new research, I don't have a lab. I don't have any of that. All I do is try to apply physiology, and that's just what I do. I talk about physiology, and I really didn't know the impact that I had 20 years ago, and all of these people are talking about that, I got them started. I really didn't know that. I was just trying to tell you what was happening in my practice and what was what made me like medicine again, and somehow it resonated with people and so but also what I found out is that, yeah, I am old, and the people who heard me 20 years ago, you know, they're retired, you know, are there whatever? And there's a whole new set of doctors, like Dr Nario, who don't know who the hell I am, and they all know what I talk about, or anything so. And I also learned that there's a whole new generation of patients who don't have any idea about hormones. And I see all this stuff on Tiktok and all this, and it's just totally crazy stuff. And you know, I did this when it wasn't popular, and now it's popular, and everybody's jumping on the bandwagon, and they're not taking the time to really understand just the basics, and that's really all I talk about. So again, this may be boring for some of you guys, but I'm just going to tell you, this is all I know. I don't know any this is what I know. And I'll try to express it as best as I can, and I'll try and clear up any, you know, any mis perceptions or whatever. And we'll just have a have a discussion and I will be honest with you, I am a person who has been doing saliva testing for 30 years, and for me, it has provided clarity. And I'm not here to argue this. I'm just telling you this is what I do. Okay, okay, and you can ask questions later, but how do I show my slides? What do I need to do to share my screen

Speaker 5  23:43
there, at the bottom there, there should be a share. Oh, yeah, I got it, yeah.

Speaker 1  23:47
Let me, let me pull this up and then tell it I wanted to share that. All right? And let me get there. You go out of the way, yeah. And let me do this.

Bill Clearfield  24:01
If you go slide show, and then it'll see it, yeah, yeah, we see it.

Speaker 1  24:08
Okay, let me, yeah, let me go back. All right, you guys can see this, yeah, that's fine. That's great. And if you want, I don't mind. You can stop me. I can't I somebody. I made this where I can't see you guys, so I can't see your faces.

Speaker 1  24:24
But if you have a question, Dr Clearfield, if you can interrupt me, if you see some hands raised or whatever, and we'll go from there. All right, so here's the stress connection. So I'll tell you, 25 years ago, how I got in this I'm an OBGYN by by by training, and I went to Emory University, and I did OBGYN, just like I was taught. I gave birth control pills to the young women and the older women. I asked them, Do you have a uterus? And I gave them permanent if they didn't have a uterus, and I gave them Provera if they had a your uterus. And that's what I did, and if that didn't work, we cut out the uterus, we cut out the ovaries, and then when that was all over with, and they still had symptoms, we sent them to the psychiatrist. And that sounds crazy, but that's what I was taught. And they didn't say it, but, you know, they say, See One, Do One, Teach One. And so that's what I saw, that's what I did, and that's what I taught until my wife had issues. And then when my wife had issues, I said, Wait a minute, I'm doing this because my wife is 35 she was irritable all this, so I gave her birth control pills. That wasn't working, and my wife's a psychiatrist. And so anyway, to make a long story short, it just so happened that during this time, a patient asked me if I knew anything about progesterone and saliva testing, and I said no, and she gave me a tape by John Lee, and I listened to, I really I didn't listen to tape because I was like, how can she? How can this patient tell me anything? And my pay, my wife listened to the tape, and she said, This guy is talking about me. I listened to the tape, and that day, my life changed, because I finally understood hormones. When he started talking about progesterone, he started talking about saliva testing. All the sudden, everything made sense to me. So we we wrote a book called, are your hormones making you sick, talking about how you measure hormones and how you how you treat it, and how you follow it. And I did that for about two or three years, and then I was going to conferences. I heard people talk about stress, and I said, this is the reason why, even though I know about estrogen, progesterone and testosterone, all of that stuff, some of these patients still have all of these symptoms, and so what is going on? So that's when we wrote the book called The stress connection, and that's connecting the link between stress hormone, Dyspepsia dysfunction and immune suppression. And that's what we're going to talk about today, because I think you have to start here to connect all of these dots. All right, so this is kind of my little thing. You know how patients, you know, you have patients who come in and you have this long questionnaire and they check off everything, okay? I mean, everything's marked off. And so then you go into the room and they say, Hey, look, Doc, I don't know what's wrong with me, but I'm light headed, and I have insomnia, and then, you know, also have PMS and I have headaches, and then I have muscle pains and spasms and that have Epigastric pain, and I have food and other allergies. Have this Dyspepsia and energy. I have this diarrhea. I'm constipated sometime, and you say, well, all right, Miss Jones, that sounds that sounds awful, but wait a minute, Doc, I also have excessive fatigue, and then I'm nervous, I'm irritable, I have mental depression. I'm in I can't concentrate. I'm everything. I'm anxious about everything. I have this weakness, I frustrated, I got these cravings. And you say, oh my god, what? I only have 1015 minutes to talk to this lady, and she's telling me all these things. What in the heck am I going to do? Well, here's what you do. You order the FSH, the thyroid, the CBC, the SMA seven, the cholesterol, the AMA, you know, Ana. And you know that all of those tests are going to be normal, because you've seen this Jones that, you know, I don't know how many times she always comes in the same complaint. So you order those tests. Now it doesn't do anything for the situation, except it gets you out of the room, and you know it's going to take about two or three weeks to get all of these tests done. And so then the patient comes back and she says, Okay, Doc, I know you something must be wrong. And you say, I'm sorry, Miss Jones, but all your tests are normal. Then you say, okay, she comes back and tells you all of those symptoms again. And you say, Wait, Mr. Jones, now we're ultrasound, CT scan, upper GI, endoscopes, laparoscope, and you know all of those are going to be normal, but it buys you at least four weeks, because it takes a long time to schedule Ultrasounds and CT scan and upper GI and so then she comes back, and then the only thing you can do now is you've got to write a prescription, because that's the only way you're going to get out of that room. All right. So then you're going to, you're going to, you're going to give her all these drugs, and you're going to do, you're going to give her the antidepressant, you're going to give her the cholesterol medication, you're going to give her the estrogen, if she doesn't have a uterus, you may give us a progesterone. Go do all that stuff, because that's what is popular now, the everybody's getting pellets, and they think testosterone is the energy thing. All of this the but the problem with popular thinking is that it doesn't require you to think at all. It's easy to do what other people do, and you hope that they thought it out. And what happens is we think that the American College of OBGYN has thought and that not you guys, but but the people in the line. They think the American College of OBGYN has figured it out. They think that the American menopause society has figured it out. They think that the AOA has figured it out. They think the pharmaceutical companies have figured it out. None of them have figured it out in the patient's benefit or in your benefit. So I am encouraging, and this, I'll tell you what got me started on this is by John Maxwell. I read a book over 35 years ago called Thinking for a Change, and that's what this is about, is that I stopped letting other people tell me what to do. I started thinking for myself. And that is the problem, I think, in medicine, we we give over our authority to these so called, you know, these so called organizations, and we have to start thinking for ourselves. And again, not you guys, I'm talking about medicine and whole we have to start thinking for ourselves. All right. So now, now here's the deal. So you know all those symptoms that that lady had, so then if you don't have a real diagnosis for them, because the patient doesn't have a disease, because we have been done. We have been taught to identify and diagnose diseases so if they don't fit into a disease category we gave, we made up these names. So, you know, I talk about these non diagnosis, non diagnosis that patients are given. And one is called chronic fatigue. And you say, Well, how do you diagnose chronic fatigue? Well, the way you diagnose chronic fatigue is a patient has to come in and say, Doc, I'm tired all the time, and you say she has chronic fatigue. Well, all you did was, and again, I know I'm preaching to the choir, but here's what happens. All you did is regurgitate what the patient said. She said, I'm tired all the time. Chronic means all the time, and fatigue means tired and so but patients, they get labeled this, and they go around and tell everybody how they have chronic fatigue, and they make all these excuses why they can't live their lives because somebody told them they had chronic fatigue, and then people wear the badge of fibromyalgia. What does Fibromyalgia mean? How do you diagnose that patient has to come in and say, all of my muscles and joints hurt all the time. So what does Fibro mean? It means fibrous tissue, which is your joint. Mile is for muscle and algae means pain. So she said, My muscles and joints hurt, and you said your muscles and joints hurt. And she goes out and says, My doctor says I had fibromyalgia. And then she sees all of these commercials about, if you have fibromyalgia, you should take this, and they start taking it, and it doesn't help. And then being on Tiktok, and I'm talking about hormones, you can't believe how many people label themselves as PCOS and have no idea what PCOS is. And they say my doctor told me I had PCOS, and I said, When did they tell you that? Well, when I was 10 years old, I said, you didn't have PCOS. That was puberty. PCOS is irregular and ovulate, irregular ovulation or and ovulation. So polycystic ovary means that you have a lot of cysts. Those cysts multiple ones who are and it is making estrogen. You're not ovulating, so you're not making progesterone. So really you're just estrogen dominant or progesterone deficient. You do not PCOS is not a diagnosis, okay? Attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder. What does that mean? A patient has to come in and say, I can't pay attention. I can't focus. Well, that's attention deficit. Just means you can't pay attention. That's what the patient just said. The patient comes in and says, Hey, I have diarrhea, constipation. Everything bothers it irritates my bowel. And we tell them they have irritable bowel. And then the patient says, My, my, my emotions go up and down. We say, well, you're bipolar. You're happy as it. We're just describing what the patient has already told us, but the patient takes this as some kind of scarlet letter that they tell every doc, and every doc takes this diagnosis or this non diagnosis, and they base their decisions on that. And so patients don't ever get better because they don't know why they're tired, why their muscles hurt, why they don't ovulate, why they can't focus, why their bowel is not working, why are their emotions all up and down? That's what the patient wants to know. Why is this happening? So I believe it's all stress. Now also I told you I wrote, I read that book, Thinking for a Change, and then about that time, because this is a study done in 2002 if you see this, it says 75 to 90% of all visits to primary care physicians are for stress related complaints or disorders. So when I saw that, I said, Look, if 75 to 90% of my patients had diabetes or hypertension or cancer, I would try and learn everything I could about diabetes, hypertension and cancer. So if 75 to 90% of all the visits for primary care physicists are for stress related complaints or disorders, I need to learn how to identify, measure and manage stress, because that's what we do for hypertension and diabetes, right? We measure the blood sugar, we measure the their blood pressure, and well, first we identify that there may be an issue, okay, so we identified by doing the correct test, then we measure it, and then we manage it, okay? And so you can't, and that's going to be a slide that comes up with you can't manage, what you cannot measure. So I said I am going to learn, I am going to be an expert on stress, because I'll be able to, I'll be able to help 75 to 90% of my patients, and that was in 2002 What do you think that? What do you think the statistics are now? I think it's 90 to 99% of all Visitus are due to stress related complaints and disorders in this stressful environment that we see ourselves in. Okay, and I'm not just talking about political or or whatever. I'm talking about the the environmental stressors, the physical stressors, the emotional stressors, all of those, your body only sees one big stress. It doesn't matter what the stress is. If it disturbs homeostasis in any way, it is a stress to the body. All right. Now, this is stress physiology, and this is why I called it the stress connection, because stress is involved with every organ system in your body. Every organ system is is affected by stress. So when you're under stress, you have headaches, feelings of despair. You know, we know all that. This is why we have so much mental illness in our society. Alright, it's it affects the skin, all right, it affects the muscles, it affects the heart. You see what I'm saying. So this is an important issue. So I said so I'll tell you, in my clinical practice, the fact that I decided to become a an expert in stress has greatly changed the outcomes in my patient, and has greatly increased my ability to understand and relate to patients and to help them understand themselves and be a part of their recovery. All right, so this is another, I think, a profound statement we have to think differently. We cannot solve our problems with the same thinking we used when we created them. And I see this happening right now. You know, I know, I know you put something on there about when I talked about, like, lifting the the black box warning on hormones, and I'm like, oh my god, we're going to do the same thing over again. We're going to give everybody estrogen again. We're going to have to do another study like the Women's Health Initiative, and we're going to do this all over again. And I'm saying we have to start thinking differently. We always think that we have to have a new study to tell us what physiology has been telling us for 1000s of years. So I don't care about new studies. I really don't okay when I'm basing things on physiology. I don't care about the latest study, because physiology is physiology, and we don't have to prove physiology, and we can debate that if you want. But I'm telling you when you when you know the basics, when, when a basketball player loses his shooting rhythm, the coach goes out there and says, We have to go back to the basics. We don't need to learn anything new. You have lost your rhythm on your shot. We're going to go over the basics. Where do you stand? How do you place your feet? Where is your arm. Where is your so that's where we've got to do it what, this is what we've got to do. And you've guys are probably already there, like I said, but I'm trying to, you know, this is kind of my, like, my last hurrah. This is my last generation that I'm going to be able to affect. So I am going full speed ahead. So this is what I'm talking about. This is what I this is what Socrates says. Like I said, I don't have any new information for you guys, none. I don't have any new studies. I don't have any of that, but I do remember. I remember basic physiology, and that's what learning is all about. It's about remembering. Is not about the it's and I know, like, like you're talking about ayahuasca and all that stuff, that's something different. Yeah, you need randomized control trials on that, no doubt about it, but basic physiology does not have to be reproven. I don't think, okay, that's, that's my opinion. Yeah, it's my opinion. Alright, so this is the normal stress response. That's why I told you. It doesn't matter what the stress is, okay, if it's physical, whether it's toxic, exposure, light cycle disruption, which means you know you're you're up at two or three o'clock in the morning of food intolerance that you don't even know about, temperature extremes, trauma, physiologic, glucose dysregulation. All of these are stressors, and they all do the same thing. They initially stimulate the sympathetic nervous system say, hey, look, we are out of balance. Something is going on here. Something is affecting our homeostasis. So it sends out a signal. It tells that HP access, hey, we need more energy. This is a stress we've got. We've gotta write this ship, and so it sends out cortisol. Cortisol mobilizes glucose. We have energy to deal with that stress, deal with the so you can adapt to this stressor, okay, so that you can increase your detoxification, so that you can try and, you know, change your your rhythm, so that you can sleep at night. So it's trying to cause inflammation to tell you that you're eating food that you shouldn't be eating. So it's trying to get you to overcome the stress. Alright, now the problem is, these are not things that come and go. These things can be long standing. And this is a short term design system, and this is another book I tell you about. These are these foundational books why Zebras don't get ulcers, by Robert Sapolsky, and he just wrote a new book called behave, and it's just talking about how the nervous system signals your behavior. What happens a second before you make a decision, what happens a week before you make a decision? It's a very interesting book, but this is the first book that I read why Zebras don't get ulcers. And Zebras don't get ulcers because they know that this is a short term thing. Zebras sit around and they just wait. I just left. I've been on two Safaris in Africa, and you see how the animals they sit around and they eat and they relax and they graze, but the minute their predator comes. Man, all of these animals can run like the wind because they sit around in a parasympathetic state, storing up energy, storing up their resilience. But time of predator comes. Man, it is a 40 mile an hour. I mean, even elephants can run like the wind, alright? Why? Because they know how to use the stress response. Because when it is time for them to run, they don't care about reproduction, so they shut off their hormones. They don't care about insulin energy storage. They want that that glucose in the bloodstream so it can go to the muscles. Because you don't even need insulin for glucose to go into the muscles. It does not want you to waste energy on anything other than running and fighting. So it shuts down your thyroid. It says we don't have enough energy to be absorbing anything. Here's what we need to do. We need to do two things. We need to stop digestion, and we need to empty out the colon, so it makes you have diarrhea, and then it stops everything upstream. And then we don't want to waste water. We want to hold on to water, because if we start, if we get injured, and we have to and we're bleeding, we want to have an increased intracellular intravascular volume, so it's harder for us to bleed to death. And the last thing you want to do if you're in the middle of a short term race, the last thing you want to do is fall asleep. So here's how it works with the Zebras,

Speaker 1  43:15
if they are being chased by a predator, two things will happen. They will either win the race or they will lose the race. If they win the race, they say, oh my god, I ran. I outran the lion. Thank goodness. Let me go back to grazing, because I gotta get ready for the next time that this guy comes, all right? Or if he loses the race, the ZEBRA'S dead. But both of those are short term stress responses. Either it's going to win the race and it's going to say, thank goodness, or it's going to be dead and no more stress. So that's how it's supposed to work. But this is the problem we have long term stressors. And when cortisol is the main goal, it skips the mineral corticoids. You don't have any aldosterone, so you don't have any good fluid balance, and it shuts off all of these hormones. All right, so this is the problem. When you have cortisol involved, it's very hard to balance hormones, because it's disrupting this whole it's disrupting the whole system. I don't know where that came from. Where did these marks come from? Marks come from? Did I do that? Alright, so basic management principle, you cannot manage what you cannot measure. So if I'm going to be an expert in stress, I have to know how to measure it if I'm going to be able to manage it. Because when somebody says, hey, you need to manage your stress better. Will you tell them. We say, Wait a minute. How can I manage it? How bad is it? How do I know if it's better? What is it doing to me? We have to be able to measure it. All right. So how do you measure it? We conclude that salivary cortisol measurements are an excellent index of plasma free cortisol this they circumvent the physiological, pathological and pharmacological changes due to corticosteroid binding globulin alterations, and offer a practical approach to SF assess pituitary adrenergic function. Okay, so let's just start here. Why do I use saliva testing? Well, if you look at Endocrinol, cortisol, is the gold standard saliva testing is a is a golden gold standard for cortisol, according to the endocrinologist, all right, because it bypasses the corticosteroid binding globulin. So now, all of these are steroid hormones, right? They all come from the same place. Let's go back. They all come from cholesterol. So they're all fat soluble. All of these are right. So fat soluble hormones are more likely to be in the tissue than they are to be in the blood, because in the blood they are bound by sex hormone binding globulin, corticosteroid binding globulin, all right, so saliva testing bypasses the binding globulin. So you know what is actually in the tissue. So I see people trying to use blood and calculate out how much sex hormone binding globulin there is, and then looking at their free amount. But here's the problem. These are lipophilic hormones. They don't just go in and out of the tissue, the extracellular space, and the tissue is also fat soluble. So just because there was free hormone that got delivered yesterday, it doesn't mean that that free hormone left the next day, that free hormone can still be in the tissue. So that's why you have to know how much is in the tissue, how much is accumulating in the tissue, not just how much free hormone is in the blood, and when you do all of those calculations, it still does not give you the real tissue concentration. So the blood is a delivery, the urine is the metabolites, and the saliva is the tissue concentration. And because these hormones go into the cell. Okay, then that is where the action is, all right? They go through passive diffusion. And I can give you a three hour lecture on saliva testing, okay? But I will tell you, and look, I'm not here to debate saliva testing. I really am not. I'm just telling you, this is the information that I have used, and I have based my practice on for almost 30 years, and I will tell you again, it's made me where I now understand physiology, because I've seen it with my own eyes over the last 30 years. Alright, so cortisol comes in a rhythm, okay? It's And so think of cortisol as GLUCOCORTICOIDS regulation. Okay, GLUCOCORTICOIDS Suppl. So what's supposed to happen? You're supposed to have a good night's sleep. You rest, recover. This is like those animals that sit around and just eat and, you know, they don't worry about anything. So this is what's supposed to happen at night. You recuperate, you regenerate all of the things that you did, all the supplements and all that stuff, they have to be incorporated at night. And then what happens in the morning? You should get a burst of cortisol, and you wake up, you're ready to go. And then your energy kind of dissipates over the course of the day, and and then you eat lunch, and you get a little more energy. And then you get tired, and you go to sleep, and you sleep through the night, and you dream, and you wake up refreshed. That is what's supposed to happen, all right, so this is what happens with stress. Now, you know stress is not all bad, okay, you don't want to have low stress, because then you just sleep your life away. You need to have something. You need to have a reason to wake up in the morning. And you know, so you can want to be alert. You need to have a reason to wake up. And then you want to have something that really motivates you. And that's when you are at your optimal performance. And this is where everybody wants to be. But usually what happens is we overdo it, we push too hard, we don't get enough sleep, we don't eat right. We stay at the office longer than we should. We open up another practice. We have to, you know, hire someone staff. We have to fire some staff. We're worried about reimbursement. Is the insurance company got All of this stuff, and we

Speaker 1  49:39
actually went, I'll tell you that story in a minute. So is how stress affects the thyroid. So activation of the HPA axis is associated with decreased production of thyroid stimulating hormone. So I just want to stop right there. So when you are under stress, it blocks TSH. Okay, so it blocks TSH, and what do all? I will say, What do all? I will say, it all. Endocrinologist only look at the TSH. Okay? They say, Okay, if the TSH is below five, you are, you are euthyroid, and we all know that's not right. But anyway, that's what they look but let's look at this inhibition of the conversion of relatively inactive t4 to the more biological active t3 in peripheral tissues of euthyroid six syndrome. So stress blocks t4 to TV t3 conversion. We know that's the active form, but it also blocks TSH. So when stress is involved, you can't only look at TSH to tell if a person's hypothyroid, you have to look at how much free t3 they have and how much reverse t3 they have. Because even if they have a normal amount of free t3 if the reverse t3 is is elevated, reverse t3 blocks the receptor for t3 so you need to know all of this information to evaluate someone's Thyroxine. You need to know what their stress response, what their stress is, what their stress cortisol curve is, and you need to know what their reverse t3 is. You need to know what that t3 is. You need to know what t4 is. And you know, we have all these people who are on level Thyroxine, which is t4 but if they don't have Zebras selenium, if they are under stress, it is not going to convert to free t3 so we have to. And I think I have this No, well, I'll tell you, I went to the endocrinology society in Florida, and I didn't want to go, but a doctor wanted me to go, and I said, endocrinologist, and I hope there's no endocrinologist on here, I'll be a reformed endocrinologist. So I went into I went and spoke to them, and I just went over this part. And it was about 50 guys, 50 people there. And so I did this talk, and I said, for first, I said, I'm an OBGYN, and 25 of them left. So then the 25 that was there, I kept I did this, and I said, I want to tell you something. TSH may not be the best indicator of thyroid function, and it was like I sucked all the air out of the room. It was like I had, I had blasphemed, you know, because I said something bad about TSH. And then I showed them in their own endocrinology book. This is where I got this from. It's from the Journal of endocrinology. That's where I got all of this from. And I told them, This is from your textbook, and they still didn't want to hear it. So that's what we talk about. See, one do, one teach, one is that it's so hard to get new information into doctors because they're so fixated on what they've always done, and that's why you're getting kicked out of everything, and that's why I did that get out of line, because everybody wants you to go back into that popular thinking, because it makes them uncomfortable when you say something that goes against their hardcore beliefs. Okay, and I tell you, belief is a hard thing to break. It really is. It's a hard thing to break. So really stress is about allocating in allocating energy, okay? Because when you have homeostasis, when you're those animals sitting around, eating, relaxing, sleeping, they have full function of their corticosteroid their their functioning brain. This the corticox and the reproductive organs take up a lot of energy, so if something is going on, so when you're relaxed, your frontal cortex is working so you can make good decisions. Your immune system is working, so it's less likely you're going to be sick. So you can you can be at your highest level of performance. You're going to have nutrient absorption. And you know what happens is, is that it shuts down digestion. So it says, Hey, we don't have enough energy to do that. So but two things happen, you don't digest your food, but also you have to come back to the stomach to pick up nutrients. And so now you have a double deficiency. You're not digesting anything. And now when you need more energy, nothing is working. You know your digestion is not working. So you can't pick up any nutrients. So that increases your fatigue, and then reproduction. You're like, you can't waste a lot of energy chasing women and and wasting all this energy on sex. So we're going to shut off your libido totally. And we have all got to go. We have to send all our energy to our muscles, because we have to fight or we have to run, and so everything else gets suppressed. So that's why I'm talking about sympathetic dominance. And I'll tell you, if you symptom chase after all of this stuff. This is why people are on all these different medications and are on, you know, having all these diagnostic tests and all of these things to and getting scope stuck up the butt and down that throat, you know, looking for, you know, irritable bowel syndrome. And it all starts from stress. Okay, all right, so the unified model of stress dominance, you have GnRH suppression, so it shuts down your reproductive system. You have TSH inhibition and five prime deiodinase block. So you have metabolic hibernatioen. You get Vagal withdrawal and vascular shining, I don't know what happened to my slides. And you get gut and immune compromised. And then get frontal cortex inhibition. You get loss of cognitive autonomy. So there's a zero sum game. You cannot treat the symptoms, low hormones, gut Dyspepsia, brain fog, without addressing the upstream allocation shift caused by the HPA axis.

Speaker 1  55:56
So this is what I want to talk about real quickly. You know, I feel like a lot of the problems that doctors are facing, and I know the doctors talk about used to hate medicine, and so I'm trying to understand docs Okay, and why they aren't willing to change. And I really think it's because they have so much stress. Okay? And so when you have a lot of stress and all of this is turned off, your brain doesn't work, your gut doesn't work. So what happens is, when you lose that internal direction, the frontal lobe generates motivation and independent decision making. When it's atrophied by stress, the internal locus of control diminishes so you so when you can't when you don't feel like you can think for yourself, or you don't have enough energy, are you? Are you just so stressed you can't really think? This is why you go into the caterpillar land, because without executive cognitive function, the brain defaults to group consensus. Are rigid protocols to ensure safety. So that's why they go and say, hey, it's FDA said this, or the American College of OBGYN said that even when it doesn't make any sense, we feel safe because somebody else thought it out. And I'm just going to do what they said. They seem to be the ruling authority. They seem to know what they're doing. I'm confused. I don't know what's going on, so let me just do what everybody else is doing, and that is what the standard of care is. The standard of care said, says what are most reasonable physicians doing in your area? And it doesn't matter if it's right or wrong. So that's why the pharmaceutical companies say, hey, look, all we gotta do is get enough doctors to do what we ask them to do, and that will become the standard of care. And what they do is they get on on the television, and they have all these commercials, and they say, ask your doctor about this drug. If enough people ask the doctor about the drug, then the doctor is going to ask the pharmaceutical rep to come in and tell them about the drug. Now we get enough people doing that. Now that's the standard of care. So that's why I'm saying we have got to look at our own profession, okay? And we have to, we have to lead and not follow, and it doesn't start from the top down. It starts from the bottom up. And that's why I go and educate patients before I even educate doctors, because I'm going to tell you it's twice as hard to unlearn as it is to learn. And I'll tell you lay people you talk to them about hormones and why you can't because they know that blood doesn't work. Believe me, they know the blood doesn't work. Okay? And I see it on social media in my office. You You're fooling yourself if you think that the blood work tells you everything you need to know. Alright, alright. So this is the problem. We're all high performers, and again, maybe you guys are like me. I have changed what I do. I don't I go in the office three days a week. I don't travel. I'm sitting here in my spare bedroom, and I'm given a webinar because I have been there done that. I have worn myself out. I I tell you, I started out I wore myself from OBGYN When I was in my 30s. I could get up and do a C section, sleep for two hours, go back to the office, do it all over again. I got in my 40s, it took me two weeks to recover if they woke me up in the middle of the night. So in 2006 I said, I can't do this. It's going to kill me. I stopped delivering babies, so then around 2010 that was when we wrote the books, and I started traveling. So I did that, and then one time, I went to a 4m and I was the first person to speak, and I had just gotten off a plane. I was out in Las Vegas. I had been in the office the day before, and I got up and I was ready to do this lecture that Dr Clearfield and whoever else has heard me. It was about hormone replacement by the book. I took spear off the GYN endocrinology book, and I explained hormones. And anyway, so I looked at those slides, and it looked like somebody had changed the slides on me. And I said, Wow, I don't know what's going on with me, and because people had heard me before, and I'll tell you. So I went up there, I saw those slides, and about halfway through, I said, I don't know what's wrong with me. I really can't focus. I It's like somebody has changed my slides. I really can't do this. So people had heard me before I left. I mean, I went out in the lobby just trying to gather myself, and people followed me because they thought I'd had a TIA. And this was, this was in 2000 I don't know, 14, I guess. And they thought I had a TIA, and so I went home. They called my wife. I left early, and my wife said, you're not traveling anymore. I did a saliva test. My cortisol was shot. It took me six months to recover, and this was for this is before I was doing IVs and NAD and all this stuff. And so I've been there, done that, and I'm not going to let that happen to me again. All right, so the biology of high performance, while resilience fades, why standard labs miss it, and how to restore your adaptive capacity. High performance is not lost overnight. It simply becomes more expensive. So what happens is you continue to function, and you think that everything is okay, but really you're wearing yourself down. So this, this is the saliva test. And you see, this is in from January 2026, so, you know, I don't have to go far to get a slide. Now, this is saliva cortisol, okay, so this green area is normal, all right, so am I? Am I making these red marks? Can somebody I

Speaker 5  1:02:06
don't think so, but you think they're already there,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:15
you're doing because it's from the screen,

Speaker 1  1:02:21
okay, alright. Well, if it doesn't, if it doesn't distract you guys, I can say they're showing up all over anyway, let me get through this. Alright, so this is cortisol. So this is the normal range, all right. Cortisol high in the morning. Your your energy dissipates over the course of the day. This is noon. You eat lunch, you get a little bit more energy now. This is Evening, you eat dinner. You get tired, you go to sleep. It's supposed to happen. Come back, you know, the next day. This is this patient, okay? She's pushing herself to the rim, okay. Morning quarters, all greater than 400 this woman is stressed, okay? And she's a real estate person. She's doing all these things. And I told her, hey, look, see, this is phase one. So this is what happens, and you can do this. This is probably where I was when I was delivering babies and getting up and, you know, needed two hours of sleep and all that. I was up here. Okay, so then what happens is, is that you cannot stay up there for very long. So what happens is you end up being like this. And I'm going to show you some other examples. You end up being like this. So it comes down. And so now you have this tired and wired where now your cortisol is like this, because it says, hey, look, if you keep this up, you're going to wear yourself out quickly. So it becomes fatigued, and it comes to straight line where, in the morning you have this much energy and you should have this much. And at night, you have this much energy and you should have that much. And so in the morning, you wake up and you're tired, even though you have slept, and you fill in this gap with carbohydrates, with caffeine. And this is why Starbucks is a billion dollar company, I think because people wake up with low morning cortisol 's, and then they drag themselves during the day, and then at night they're saying, I've been tired all day. I pushed through work, and now it's night. I either have trouble falling asleep or I wake up at two or three o'clock in the morning. And so I'm going to show you that this is not some rare occurrence. Okay, so this again, this is, this is all from January and December in my office. I don't know where these red lines are coming up from, so, but I just want you to see this is the first one I showed you. This is a cortisol curve. This is a disruptive corticosteroid cortisol curve. You can see that she wakes up, she doesn't have the energy as she should. She has in the middle of the day, she gets energy, and then at night is way up here. I guarantee you she has trouble falling asleep, and if she does fall asleep, she wakes up at two or three o'clock in the morning and can't get back to sleep. So here's another example. See, all of these are from December and January, alright? And I can show you some from January and February, February. This is not a rare occurrence. This is the 75 to 90% of people who have cortisol issues. They're right here in front of you, but you don't see it if you don't measure it, and you can't manage it if you don't measure it. Alright? So, and this is a person I saw. This is from January. This is from a high performer. This is a 54 year old. She's a lawyer. She's some kind of financial person. Her husband had a stroke. She was coming to me for weight loss, and I said, Look, she wasn't losing any weight. I said, Look, you cannot diet and exercise your way past the hormone problem. Said we have got to test your cortisol, and this is what we've got. This lady was totally burnt out. So how do I treat her? I treat her with IVs of vitamin C, b5, b6, NAD, magnesium, Zebras, selenium, all of this to try and get her back online. And so here's my four here's my four pronged stress treatment. Number one, if at all possible, get rid of the stress, whether it's a relationship, a job, whatever it is, get rid of the stress, whether it's a food sensitivity, whether it's some other you know, Glucocorticoids regulation. Get rid of the stress. If you can't get rid of the stress, you have to change how you respond to the stress. You have to get somebody to help you. You have to meditate. You have to do you have to change how you're responding to that stress. You have to move your cubicle to someone who doesn't irritate you or whatever. You have to change that all right. Then the third thing you have to do is repair the damage caused by the stress, and this is all the damage. So you got to repair the gut, you have to repair the neurotransmitters. You have to do all of that. You have to repair the damage caused by the stress. And then we have to build up your resiliency so that you can be prepared for future stress, so you can adapt to situations. You can go back to being able to do the things you could do when your cortisol was normal, alright. And so we see that in high performance, and I know it because I've been there, done that, and now I know better. I know to get rid of my stress, which was two days in the office. Change how I respond to the stress. I meditate. Now I hate that when I wrote the stress connection, I didn't understand meditation. I will not go a day without meditation. Now I'm doing a thing called Quantum breath work that I get off a gay channel. Incredible. I've been doing this breath work, and you're talking about DMT. You can stimulate DMT with breath work. So I know all about I know about DMT. I don't know about ayahuasca, but yes, DMT, you can get from ayahuasca, but you can also generate it by stimulating your pineal gland. These are all things that I've learned since I've gotten out of line, you guys, I'm way out of line. Now you thought I was like out of line before I'm so far out of line. Now I don't even know where the line is, you guys. So cortisol is not the villain. Cortisol is capacity. So cortisol gives you focus, drive, adaptability, emotional containment. People think when they feel like this, oh, I know my cortisol is out through the roof. No, your cortisol is not through the roof. It's low because you don't have focus drive that gives you when you have when it's in the daily pattern, it does wonders. But when that curve is screwed up, it can screw up your life. So you don't want low cortisol. You want responsive cortisol. We want that when that predator comes, that glucose shoots into your system, okay, and you handle that stress, and then that stress is over with, and then you go back and relax. So you cannot lead without the biological fuel to adapt and doctors, we have to adapt. We have to adapt to all of this, you know, all of the things that are going on. We had to deal with insurance companies. We have to, you have to be adaptive. You change from an insurance based practice to a cash based practice. So it's all about, can I adapt to this rapidly changing world? I had to adapt. You know, Dr Clearfield, you probably remember this information. But hey, I have adapted. I use notebook LM to make my slides look prettier. Okay, now, beg pardon. Hello, they look good. Yes, oh, I thought you have a question.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:15
No, no, no, I was just okay. Notebook, LM, they said they look pretty good.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:20
Yeah, yeah. Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:23
managed to get the watermark off of there too. I see,

Speaker 1  1:09:27
yeah, well, well, they still up there. I couldn't So, but anyway, I'm like, now I can do this, and it's a lot easier because of AI and I can and all of this information that I've gained over 30 years, and I have so many, I have so much stuff on my computer, I have to keep up, you know, increasing the capacity of it, but now I'm able to organize it. I'm able to do all kinds of things with AI, and I'm like, wow, this is like, this is something I've been trying to get across to people for 25 years. And AI, and the way we do zoom 's and all this stuff has just made it so much easier. So it's allowed me to get back in it without climbing back into that hole of over performance and stressing myself out. I can, I can do what I want to do, and I don't wear myself down like I did before. Okay, I'm 65 I can't do what I could do at 40 and 50, when I was around speaking at eight, 4am and all that stuff. I just can't do it anymore. I don't want to do it anymore. I want to get this information out, but I don't want to do it the old way. I want to do it the new way. And that's another thing about about as you get older, you still gotta keep your mind, I hang around young people, you guys, I don't hang around old people. Okay, so anyway, so now this is who screwed my I have to it broke up my words, but health is a rhythm is not a number. The pulse is what allows you to leave during the day and repair at night. If you lose the rhythm, you lose your shield. So the real question is, are we measuring what is easy? Are we treating numbers? Are we reflex mechanisms? Are we restoring physiology stress? Dominance is not a failure. It's a biological allocation. When resilience phase, the system has shifted, it's really not broken. So, you know, I didn't know how much time we had. I just wanted to get this across. And hey, look, if, if you want to answer ask questions, you know, I can pull up other information. We can talk about other things. But for now, this is all I had. I just wanted to, I just want to give you guys an overview. And I want to see where we where we are and and, you know, I always like to know who's in my audience. And I see we have a lot of people. I see we got doctors, we got all kinds of things. But hey, I'm open to questions. If you want me to mention something else, Doctor Clearfield, I can. But again, I hope I didn't bore you guys, because I said, I know you guys are of like mind. So, so anyway, so let's, let's, I'll take questions, or if you there,

Bill Clearfield  1:12:09
there was, there was some, there was some information on the video that you sent to me, that I that I put the link in at the beginning, about post menopausal. I'm trying to put it together FSH being low versus high. Do you remember that part of it?

Speaker 1  1:12:32
FSH, oh, you talking about, Well, you talk about inhibin or, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:37
Well, the video that you sent me that you that one's stress dominance, that 16 minute video that you sent, yeah, I said something about and everybody should have watched, because it was there, was linked in the email that you got.

Speaker 1  1:12:49
Yeah. So that was kind of my, yeah. That was kind of my new and improved one. And so I and so I Dr clear, like, went back and looked at my old slides, and I was like, you know, this isn't half bad, you know. Let me try and just go back to the future a little bit and see what I can, I can do with these old slides. But we talked about FSH. You know, FSH is follicular stimulating hormone and so, so you're probably talking about this in perimenopause, FSH goes up, okay? Because it's trying to stimulate these old eggs. All right, so in perimenopause, because FSH is going up, is stimulating these, these cysts, and the cysts make estrogen. So in and so what's happening is, in perimenopause, you're getting a slight increase in FSH. Now, when you're in menopause, when it's over 24 then you you don't have any you know, your ovaries don't have any eggs left. But in perimenopause, FSH is slightly going up, so it's trying to get the ovary to ovulate. That's what it wants to do. So it makes it all these cysts, and all of these cysts are making estrogen in the first half of the cycle, but these older eggs don't ovulate as well as newer eggs, so they don't make as much progesterone. So in perimenopause, it's not an estrogen deficiency problem. If you look at saliva testing, the estrogen is actually elevated and the progesterone is down, because they are not ovulating as effectively as they were. So you know, I was taught that menopause was an estrogen deficiency condition, and what I found out is that 100% of women in menopause will stop ovulating, so all women will have a lower amount of progesterone, but not 100% of women will stop producing estrogen, because estrogen is aromatase in the fat tissue, whether you have a uterus, whether you're 90 years old or whether you're nine years old, the fat tissue, aromata, aromatase is in the fat TSH, and it's really in multiple organ systems. So you so women and men have the ability to make estrogen even when they're overestive. And you gotta think, God made that good decision to say, hey, even though you're not reproductive anymore, we still want you to be a woman. So you have another estrogen source, but you don't have another progesterone source. So I'm trying to, my goal for 25 years is trying to say that, hey, hormone problems in women are not automatically an estrogen deficiency condition, but that's what I was taught 30 years ago, and because of c1 do one teach one, a lot of people still believe that. And this is what I will tell you, if you look in the blood for estrogen after menopause, you will not find it there. Why? Because the blood only picks up what comes from the ovary. It doesn't pick up what is aromatas in the tissue, because it's happening in the tissue, not in the blood. The saliva gland has acinar cells that are fat. 's that they're fat. They're fat soluble type tissue, so the hormone comes into the asiner cells, and through passive diffusion, that same concentration comes into the saliva. And so that's why you can see what is in the what the tissue is doing. And you're not looking at what the ovary is doing or what the blood is supplying. You actually see the tissue physiology, not the blood delivery, not the metabolites that come from the liver. You're looking at what is in the tissue. So that's my story. I'm sticking to it. Okay? I've stuck to that story for 25 years. It is gotten me through this far. I'm too old to change that. Okay? So that's okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:43
You didn't know my mother, but those of you that have been on here for a long time have heard me say what she used to say to me, says, you know you've been doing this long enough you should know what you're doing right now.

Speaker 1  1:16:52
Yeah, yeah. So if it works for me, you guys, okay, and you may have something that works for you. And I'm just telling you that's been my experience over 30 years.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:04
All right, what about So, about your What about urine testing? You know, the Dunwoody test.

Speaker 1  1:17:10
Okay, so, this, okay, so, yeah, so, so let's just look again. I just think physiology. All right, that's all i That's all I know that and I don't know that. I know what I know, and I know what I don't know. So let's think of it. So what? What does the Dutch test do? It tells you metabolites. Okay, so it tells you how is the liver and the kidneys? How are they dealing with these hormones? What are they doing with them? And it is important when you're talking about cancer therapy and C, O, m, t and all that, yes, it's important, but it's not telling you what is happening in the tissue. It is telling you what is being metabolized. It's telling you do they have enough beta, Glucocorticoids, beta, Glucocorticoids to to eliminate estrogen, is telling you what pathway is the estrogen metabolism going to and that's fine, but let but look at this. So let's say I have not maybe I don't have enough estrogen metabolites. Okay, it's low All right. Does that mean you have low estrogen? No, because I can show you in spiroth where it says estrogen can have its effect several times before it's ever metabolized. So estrogen can be recirculated in the tissue before it's ever metabolized. So if you're looking just at the metabolites, and let's say that you you don't have good liver detoxification, all right, so you're not detoxifying well. So what does that mean? It means it's being it's being stored up in the tissue. So the tissue level could be high and the metabolite level can be low, because it's being recirculated in the tissue is being reused over again. So the to me, the Dutch test doesn't give me the information that I need to make a clinical decision, and I can't understand the Dutch test, and I see they have all these webinars trying to teach you how to do it. And I'm like, It's too complicated for me, and I can't explain it to the patient. And a patient came to me with us with a Dutch test, and said, Doctor, can you tell me what I should do with this? I said, Didn't your doctor or your it was a chiropractor. Said, Didn't your chiropractor explain the test to you and tell you what it meant. And he's like, No. And I said, Well, I can't do it either, because I don't understand the test and I don't know how it helps me to make a clinical decision. Does it help me if I'm worried about how a cancer patient is metabolizing estrogen? Yes, other than that, I don't know how it helps me. And again, maybe I'm just too stupid to understand the test. But that's how, that's how I that's how I look at it. So I say that, hey, look, you just need to understand what each compartment is doing. If you want to know the total amount of estrogen or whatever, look in the blood that's telling you the total if you want to know what's happening in the tissue, I think you need to look at saliva. If you want to know how your body is detoxifying it, then you look at the urine. So I don't and see, here's what I think the problem is, people will tell me, oh, saliva testing is no good because it doesn't match blood testing. Well, I know it doesn't because it's measuring a different compartment. Oh, I don't believe in saliva testing because it doesn't match the Dutch test. Well, I know it doesn't okay because it's measuring a different compartment. So when you try to tell me that something is wrong because it doesn't match something else, I can't understand that argument. I know they're different. Okay? You know, I wouldn't, I wouldn't do a blood test. Well, some people do do a blood test. If I want to know if you have gut issues, I need to do a stool sample. Okay, so and what I expect the stool sample to be the same as the blood test? No, because I'm looking in a different department, and I'm looking for different information. So that's again, that's my story. I'm sticking to it.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:06
Okay, all right, so the reason, the reason I brought up FSH, is because I've come across some so I'm doing a talk in April on I've been doing a series for AMH G on laboratory of functional medicine. And somewhere along the line I came up, came across some information that's fairly new on on limiting or reducing FSH. It seems to have for post menopausal women along high FSH has long term complications with weight, weight gain, osteoporosis and dementia and and reducing FSH, there's, there's been some, some studies to show we get a better, better outcomes.

Speaker 1  1:21:52
So how are you going to reduce FSH? By giving them estrogen? What are you going to do?

Bill Clearfield  1:21:56
Well? Well, at the moment, yeah, there's that. That's pretty much it, there's a couple of supplements that will reduce it somewhat. Resveratrol is one, glutathione 's another.

Speaker 1  1:22:11
But let me, let me ask you this. Okay, let me just ask you this. For 1000s of years, women have gone through menopause and their FSH is elevated, right? This is not a new phenomenon. The FSH goes up in menopause, right? And so why isn't 1000 years ago, people weren't having dementia and all of these problems that you're telling me about? Well, they didn't lose FSH is not new.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:36
They didn't live that line. I don't think they live. They didn't live long

Unknown Speaker  1:22:40
enough. Hey, my grandmother lived till she was 98

Unknown Speaker  1:22:45
Well, yeah, again,

Speaker 1  1:22:49
you know, so I mean, I again, I just

Speaker 4  1:22:52
don't live longer. Who women?

Speaker 1  1:22:59
Well, hey, look, I'm not talking about 10,000 years ago. I'm talking about I'm talking about 50 years ago. I don't remember people having dementia and Alzheimer's and all this stuff. And to me, I can't believe it's just because they had to elevate the elevated FSH. Okay, because people have had elevated FSH is four. I think it has a lot more to do with everything.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:26
I'm not, I'm not saying, I'm not simplifying that this is just something that I came

Speaker 1  1:23:30
across, yeah, yeah, but, but I always think about, hey, look, we got a whole lot of new conditions, but physiology hasn't changed, but our environment has changed. How we live has changed. Yeah, all of those things

Speaker 4  1:23:43
have changed. Yeah, I agree with Yeah, yeah. Toxin deserves Renin there too, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:23:49
So that's what I'm saying. FSH has always been, yeah, it's FSH has always been elevated in in in menopause. That's just what happens. You know, the the brain is trying to get the ovary to ovulate, and it's not doing it, and so it keeps raising the FSH. Try to get it, do it, and I can't, you can't. You're not going to be able to convince me that giving someone unopposed estrogen to get their FSH down is good, okay? Because I

Speaker 5  1:24:16
never give anyone out unopposed. ESTROGENS, yeah, we know. We don't,

Speaker 1  1:24:21
don't say no one. You just have no one.

Speaker 5  1:24:24
No one on this no one on this broadcast would,

Speaker 1  1:24:28
or you go on social media and you see how many people are advocating ESTROGENS estrogen.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:35
I have medical students. I asked them all the time, you know, what? What are they taught about? You know? You know, estrogen and progesterone after hysterectomies and all. And, yeah, you know, it's, you don't know this, but I was at OBGYN also, yeah, in 1980 and we were taught, you know, they did a history, did a hysterectomy, we gave them Premarin Exactly. And I remember saints had wanted a resin, and they didn't need progesterone because they didn't have a uterus. And I remember saying to one of the senior residents, you know, we had the clinic of a couple days a week, you know, post op. And I remember saying, the women who come back two or three years later, all, half of them have breast cancer. Why is that? You know, what is that? And he goes, Well, it's, you know, that's, you know, the hand of God. It was, it was the hand to preparation. This is what

Speaker 1  1:25:22
scared scares me to death about lifting that, that black box warning, is that now it's a wild wild west out there, and you can do whatever you want. And people start using Prem Renin again, and they're starting to use prime Renin and program, I said, we just gonna go back. And every you know, we gotta have to go and do the Women's Health Initiative again, and then we're going to, then everybody. So this is the, this is the, you know, I used to talk about this back then. So, Dr Clearfield, we're old enough to remember is that the pharmaceutical industry, they they actually got the government to pay for that Women's Health Initiative. They said, Wait till the Women's Health Initiative comes out. It's going to prove all the things that we've been talking about, permanent prayer. It's going to prove it all. It's going to prove it all. We said, okay, alright, we'll wait for the Women's Health Initiative. Then the Women's Health Initiative came back and didn't do any of the things that they said, and then they immediately attacked it. Oh, this is wrong with this. And they developed the study. But then when they didn't come out the way they wanted it now they want to attack

Bill Clearfield  1:26:22
it, right? Well, I remember, I remember when it came out in 2002 now, I was a resident in 1980 and I said, What's the big deal about this? I We knew this 22 years ago. I knew this 20 years ago. What's the big deal?

Speaker 1  1:26:36
I know if you have growth without differentiation, you will have cancer. And I don't care how many studies you tell me that estrogen is great, okay, and everybody needs it. Well, I don't believe it.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:49
I believe they left the black box warning on for unopposed estrogen. I won that. I think, I

Speaker 1  1:26:55
hope so. But let me tell you, it's I saw this lady yesterday. She said she was the OBGYN, and she was a menopause specialist, and she was telling me how she used estrogen four ways. She had it topical, she had it oral, she had it Vagal, and then she had some and then she said, I have this 200 milligrams of progesterone. I'm taking testosterone, and then I use minoxidil because my hair is falling out. And I was like, oh, and she never said anything about testing through blood, through saliva, no, nothing. And I'm like, This is what is out there, you guys. And I'm just trying to say, hey, look, let's do this in a physiologic way. Let's try and understand, how do we test for hormones that are fat soluble. It's just like, we know we can't look for vitamin K and vitamin E because it's fat soluble, it can get stored up in the tissue. Well, hormones are fat soluble too. It's just basic, what you call pharmacokinetics and whatever you know sounds like,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:59
sounds like the title of your next book.

Speaker 1  1:28:06
And so, like I said, I am a basic kind of guy. I just whenever somebody says something to me, only thing in my brain says, What does basic physiology say about that? And if it contradicts basic physiology. I'm sorry, I'm not going to do it. You can do whatever you want. And see I, you know? Dr Clearfield, we're both at the point I'm 65 I'm at the point now where I'm at the Get off my lawn type thing. I will say what I want to say. And if you don't like it, you know what see. Dr Nario, you're not there yet. Okay, you're not you're not there yet. Yeah, you're not there yet. Okay, yeah, sure. Answer your

Speaker 6  1:28:55
quick question. Yeah. I've heard that the value of the Dutch test is that it takes a trend versus one shot. Deal of blood, urine or saliva. What is your recommendation? Is it saliva over time, with blood, with urine, or just isolated one time?

Speaker 1  1:29:16
So here's what I hear this all the time. Oh, blood is just a snapshot? No, it's just the wrong compartment. It's not a snapshot, right, right? Okay, it's not a snapshot. It's the you're looking in the wrong place. I used to say, hey, look, if you lost your keys in the bedroom, and you you can look for 10,000 years in the kitchen, and you're never going to find your keys. You're looking in the wrong place, okay? And if you want to know metabolites, go look in the urine. And I don't see if you're doing urine, it's still, I know they're doing a 24 hour urine. Well, I'm doing it. I'm doing a 12 hour cortisol. That's going to tell me the same thing. And then also, they pull that 12 hours and they look at estrogen, progesterone and testosterone. And what you're looking at in the in the lab that I use, you're looking for a 200 to one ratio. The balance of 's in this lab is the progesterone needs to be 200 times what the estrogen is. Okay. And I go by that, and you know what happens when a patient walks in my office and menopausal, the first thing I do is a saliva test. Okay, I look at the saliva test, and I'll tell you, most menopausal women are making a normal amount of estrogen, but the progesterone is not 200 times that. So I will tell you that 80% of my patients are just on progesterone, and they are doing fine. And now I will tell you my younger patients will need some estrogen. If it's not, you know, they they're more likely to need estrogen. Now I will also tell you that my thin patients will need estrogen because they don't have much fat tissue. So I can almost look at a patient and say, Yeah, yep, she's probably going to need some estrogen. But most of my patients, and most of the people in I live in Atlanta, so I live in the south. So anorexia is not an epidemic in the South. Okay? It's not okay. So people have fat TSH, you know, you know. So I had this one patient. She was like, Don't I need estrogen for my bones? And she weighed like, 300 pounds. And I said, Ma'am, you got enough estrogen in your body for your bones, and you and you have weight bearing exercise every time you take a step. So those, I didn't say that to the patient, but I thought that I'm like, hey, look, you're doing weight bearing exercise every time you walk. So that's good for osteoporosis, and you got 300 pounds of estrogen that's sitting in your body, and all you need to do is just aromatase it so, so, but that's how I that's how I treat my menopausal patients now. But you know, there was a you just do

Speaker 6  1:31:56
one, a one saliva test. You don't do three in a row, or anything, just no, what? Now that's nothing stored in the tissue, and it stays constant. Well, I used to do

Speaker 1  1:32:07
that because Genova will let you do that. I used to do that, and, and, but that was more more expensive. Now it's, it's not Genova anymore. No, is it? Well, what, you know, on top, they used to do three days in a row. What they do is every other day for three days, and they would get kind of a, you know, a average. And so that's what this lab does. They do it over the course of the day and get an average. And I will tell you I've been using this lab problem for 15 years, and man, it matches clinically like you wouldn't believe. So if it's out of if they're out of balance, they come in with symptoms. They come back three months later, I do another saliva test, and I want to, you know, and usually their symptoms are gone, and I redo the test, the 201 ratio there is close. And hey, all I can tell you is my clinical experience and what my thinking behind my decisions are, and that's just what I've experienced over 30 years. And this is what I'll tell you, when I was totally confused as an OB GYN just giving people birth control pills, and it was so unrewarding. This is so rewarding for me, and because now the patient can understand that if I tell a patient, can you multiply by two? Yes, all right, so what's your ESTROGENS is one, what's one times two, two. Add two zero 's to it, all right, that's how much progesterone we got to get you to it's just that simple. And I believe that if I can't help if I can't make the patient understand what I'm doing and why I'm doing it, I tell 'em, don't do it. Don't you ever do anything. Because somebody said, so okay, you need to do it because I totally understand your thought process and and I totally understand your line of thinking, and I'm on board with it, and let me see what the outcome is going to be. Because, because I have said this when I speak, I say it to my patients too. I don't try to convert people who don't want to be converted. Okay, so that's what I'm saying here to you guys, and that's what I'm saying you are mostly a converted audience, but I've spoken to unconverted audience and then say, I don't try to convert people who don't want to be converted. You can't make people change, okay? And that's what you doctor Nari, are you married? No, let me tell you, don't marry somebody and think that there you can make them change. You can't. They have to want to change. Yes, okay, they have to want to change. And I tell people, when do people lose weight? When they decide to lose the weight, they have to want to lose it. You can't make them lose weight. You can't make them do anything. So that's what. And I can't make you guys do anything. You know

Bill Clearfield  1:34:48
us here have already drunk the Kool Aid, so So we're on board with you here.

Speaker 4  1:34:54
Yeah. Question, though, when you have a large person that loses weight and lose a fat tissue, then you really got to work on the hormones again, right? Exactly.

Speaker 1  1:35:06
This is the stuff. Yeah, you're right. Because if somebody comes in and says, Hey, you know, patient has been fine for a long time, and then all of a sudden she calls me and says, I'm having this and she comes in, I have some two questions. One, have you lost weight lately? Or have you been under a lot of stress? Because I can have a patient who's fine for 345, years, and their husband does all the heart, hot flashes come back, and they can be taking the same dose, all that, whatever, you know, they they're doing fine, and now all of a sudden, their mother, with dementia, comes live lives with them. Hot flash, everything comes back that I'm telling you, I've learned that stress controls everything. It controls everything. Okay, so I see there's some hands up.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:56
Yeah. Dr Gerber, hi.

Speaker 7  1:35:59
Dr Taylor, great talk, thanks. Do you support corticosault By giving hydroxylase and DHEA?

Speaker 1  1:36:07
Yeah, well, well, here's here's how I support cortisol. If it's mild, I give them the adrenergic supplement, okay, just has rhodiola, like all these adaptogens in it, so, because it helps them better adapt to stress. So that's what I do for mile. One's okay if it's if it's boiler, you know, if they're really kind of not functioning. Well, I do IV. I have something I call a super energy IV, 15 grams of vitamin C, magnesium, b5, b6 because the the the adrenergic gland uses vitamin C, b5, and b6, more than any other gland. And Dr Nora, you can correct me if I want, but I know it's another support, because I know you're doing the integrative and you know all the science science, I know the basic stuff so but anyway, so I give them IVs, and I will give them one, one a week for three weeks. Now, if it's really bad, if they're really like that lady who was flat lined, I give them 10 milligrams of cortisol or cortic in the morning, five at noon, because it has about a four hour half life. I read a book, I don't know if you read this book called The Safe uses of cortisol. Yeah. So I follow, I follow that because he said you can give up to 20 milligrams of cortisol, and you know, your corticosteroid binding globulin will bind the extra so I give 10 in the morning, five at noon, and trying to recreate that curve. So I do that with DHEA. Yeah, well, something, well, I'll tell them. You know, women is five to 10 milligrams of DHEA. So yeah, I will do DHEA. If the DHEA is low, sometimes it's low, but usually if the cortisol is low, the DHEA is low. So yeah, so I do it just like you're talking about, follow that safe uses of cortisol. And so when you get them cortisol, that's a quick fix. They feel better quickly. I only leave them on that for two or three months while the adrenal supplement is rebuilding their adrenergic and while the vitamin C and all that, and also in that, I put 10 milligrams, I'm sorry, I put 100 milligrams of NAD in there. So, so I'm looking at the citric acid cycle, and NAD is the limiting factor. So you can have all the other nutrients in there, but if you don't have NAD, is still not going anywhere. So that's my super energy cocktail. So I do that every week. For three weeks, I give them the corticof, give them the adrenergic supplement, so after the three weeks, they should be feeling better. After two months, I take them off the cortico I keep them on the adrenal supplement, and we go fine. Now the other problem is, when they're when they are high at night. I have a supplement called serine com that has Phosphatidylserine in it, if you know what some of you guys may know. But Phosphatidylserine, what it does is it goes to the pituitary, and it kind of reboots the pituitary and tells it, hey, look, you need to go back and do your original rhythm. Okay? Is that it lowers cortisol. Phosphatidylserine says, hey, look, it tells the brain, hey, look, you need to reboot to the original pattern here, because something has happened. And so it really lowers at nighttime cortisol and keeps them from waking up at two or three o'clock in the morning, because I tell patients, if you don't sleep, nothing gets better, because that's when your body recovers, and if you don't recover, you're going to wear yourself out. And I've done that twice, and I'm not doing it again. I did it from OBGYN, and I did it from speaking, and I don't want to do it again. So anyway, we can keep going. What time is? Oh, man, we've been here for 90 minutes. Time flies when you're having fun.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:44
Do you make any when you talk about ESTROGENS, you make any distinction between estrogen and estradiol and oh, yeah, estriol,

Speaker 1  1:39:52
yeah, estriol. I love estradiol is great for Vagal dryness. It protects the breast. So I love estriol. So I tell patients, estradiol is your major hormone. That's, you know, has to be balanced with ESTROGENS estrogen. I tell them, I don't ever use oral estrogen because it's more likely to go toward estrogen, and estrogen is more likely to be carcinogenic. All right, so I avoid oral estrogen, but I do think, yeah, estradiol is important. And then estradiol, like I said, it's if you have some use it for Vagal dryness. It works wonders. I use it where they use it every night for a week, and then twice a week for another four weeks, and it takes away the Vagal dryness, like in some people for good, and then some people use it every once in a while, but, but, yeah, no, I distinguish between all three of them. And since our

Bill Clearfield  1:40:41
CME provider 's still on the lamb, could you let us let us know which saliva testing company you use?

Speaker 1  1:40:49
Yeah, I use Doctor 's data and, yeah, so I've used them all. Man, I've used CRT. I've used Genova. What's just it's Genova. What's their new name? A new name something? Yeah, it's, it's like initials now, but anyway, that's together. I know that. Yeah, you know, you know what I'm talking about. But, man, I use Doctor 's data is inexpensive, and it's so simple because, you know, I'll tell you, I give it to a patient, and it's so simple for them to understand. And, you know, I tell patients, 50% of my job is to get you to understand what is happening to you so that you can stop you know, you know, patients come in and they have a cortisol problem, and they think they have a brain tumor, they think they have some weird disease that nobody knows you know what to do, and it causes just more and more anxiety. So if you can actually say No, all your symptoms make sense, and this is what's going on, and this is how we're going to help you, that's, I believe that's 50% of the problem, because it lowers their stress. And so now it's more likely that whatever you're going to do is going to work because you don't have stress blocking all of their systems. So So yeah, so i That's why I like doctor's data. It's a simple test. Hey, you need to be in the green. You need to have a 200 to one ratio. If you can do those two things, it'll make us a big difference in your life. If we can just get those two things to coordinate. Then we'll worry about everything else later, but we're going to work on those two important things, and then, because stress and hormones, I mean, they they affect your whole life cycle, especially in women, from puberty, the reproductive stage, the perimenopause, menopause, it's all about hormones and stress. And you got to think their hormones are changing and their stressors are changing. Okay? Now they got family and husbands and all this stuff and and now their kids are leaving, and their parents are dying, and they're going through menopause. Man, it's rough out here. You guys know it's rough, usually.

Speaker 8  1:43:02
Using something because stuff on here. I'm a PA down in Melbourne, Florida, on my own practice here, I invited my sister here to listen to this talk tonight. She's 19 years old, and she just got a 508 on the MCAT wants to apply to medical schools and do schools, and you were dropping a lot of red pills here earlier about the reality that she's getting into here. Do you have any guidance for a young medical student?

Speaker 1  1:43:31
Hey, do what you need to do to get the MD and then go do what you what you really should do. Okay, the MD gets you credentials so you can do a lot and nobody's going to less. People will attack you because you got an MD on being but then go and do what you're supposed to do. So that's all I can tell you. You know, that would be my advice. So, where is she? Who is

Unknown Speaker  1:43:55
she? She's here in the chat. That's bill. Oh,

Speaker 1  1:43:57
okay, okay, so, but, but that's what I would say. You know, you got to do what you got to do. But then, yeah, I'm glad I don't have to make that. I'm glad, I'm glad I didn't know what I know now, or I don't know if I would suffer through medical school. You know, I tell my patients now I don't do anything that I learned in medical school.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:22
Many times. I don't do anything that I learned, you know? And I look at these guys like Stefan and Dr Nario, and they say, you know, why didn't they have this when I was when I was, you know, dark hair and smooth skin?

Speaker 1  1:44:35
Yeah, I don't do anything. I don't I don't deliver babies, I don't do hysterectomies, I don't give permanent, I mean, I don't do anything. You know, I told, I used to joke. I said, I'm gonna, I'm gonna sue Emory University. I want a refund, because what they taught me hadn't helped anybody. We need to have a class. I think we all need to have a class action suit against all medical schools for teaching us bullshit for four years and then making us go through a residency and making us sleep deprived, you know, and thinking that's going to teach us something. It's crazy. And then let me tell, let me see you got me you got me, you got me hype now, so let me tell let me tell you. Let me tell your niece, or whatever. Okay, the problem is, is that she's going to, she's going to have to suffer through all of this stuff. And the problem is she's going to know ahead of time, because you're going to be telling her how crazy it is what she's learning, okay, and so. But again, I don't want to discourage, don't want to discourage her, but because we need her to go through medical school, you know, Dr Clearfield, this is, you know, this is what happens as you get older. You say, Hey, I'm going to die, and I need somebody else to carry this torch, because this is important, and I've been trying for 25 years, it looks like I haven't made a whole lot of headway. So I need people like Dr Norio and your niece and all that stuff. You got to carry this torch, because Dr Clearfield and I, we're tired. Are you tired?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:21
Yeah, I have two of my two of my students that came through when they were in medical school are now in endocrinology residencies. And let me tell you, they call me up. They're tearing their hair out.

Speaker 1  1:46:35
Oh, I'll tell you now. I hope it's not any endocrinologist here, but I'm gonna tell you when endocrinologist would come to a for M or whatever, and I give this talk, they would be so vehemently opposed to what everything that came out of my mouth. And I was like, Look, you guys, I'm using your textbook. I'm right. I'm Renin out of your textbook. I'm reading out of the GYN endocrinology textbook. Why are you mad at me? I'm just I told you, I don't. I haven't done any new studies. I'm just reading what's in the textbook. And this is what I want to tell you, is that here's here's what people you know, here's what happens in medical school. Now, when she goes to medical school, she's going to learn all the basic physiology and all of that stuff, which I'm talking about today. And then the minute you step into the hospital, your your third and fourth year, your upper level residents say, Forget all that stuff. I'm gonna teach you how to survive in the hospital. And what does that do is, how can I quickly write a prescription or send them to get a test or try and get them discharged? That's my only goal. How can I get this patient out of here, out of the hospital? Okay, that's our goal. Nobody ever taught us. How do I deal with that patient with all those symptoms that I talked about at the beginning? How do I deal with her? She doesn't need to go to the hospital, she doesn't need all of these tests. How do I deal with this woman that checks every symptom? Where do I even start? I'm telling you, start with stress. That's where you start. Start with stress, and then everything else will fall into place. But they don't. They're not going to teach you that in medical school. They're not so, you know, they look at, they look at stress as some, some woo, woo thing that the woke people talk about, you know? So anyway, let me calm down.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:20
Dr Nario, do you have any questions online?

Speaker 2  1:48:22
Let's get Petronela is her answer is, yeah. I'm sorry, yeah,

Speaker 9  1:48:27
oh yes. Dr Taylor, I would like to thank you very much for the wonderful presentation. I would like to ask about progesterone. Do you give progesterone every day when you want to up the level. Do you give it every day? Do you give it oral or you give it other cream?

Speaker 1  1:48:47
Yeah, okay, yeah, I'll tell you. So. So how I do it if they're pre menopausal? A lot of times I use creams because I want them to use it for day 12 through 26 because that's when they should be making progesterone. So I tell 'em, Hey, start on day 12. Use it day 26 so usually pre menopause, I do that. Now, some pre menopause, they say, I don't like the cream, but we'll do it oral. And I 'll Tell 'em to do the same thing. Do it 's day 12 to 26 but then now menopause, or perimenopause. 's women, women who have irregular cycle 's are, you know, they're going into period. I give them oral progesterone, and I tell them to take it all the time. Okay? Because what I'm trying to do with the perimenopausal is because sometimes they're going to ovulate and sometimes they're not. So I try to give them a basement so that when they don't ovulate, they don't fall down too far, and when they do ovulate, I'm not give it's not going to be so much that is going to cause a problem. And the only time progesterone causes a problem is when it's too much. And when it's too much, it just desensitizes the receptors so that it starts to not work because it's gotten too high, and that is what you're going to see. Only in the saliva is that you can see that the that the tissue is saturated and now the TSH, the receptors are desensitized, so you get diminishing returns. So I use oral and cream based on where they are in their life cycle and what I'm trying. And then the other reason I'll use oral is that if sleep is an issue and they have trouble falling asleep, then I will give oral progesterone, because the liver makes allopregnine alone, and it helps with sleep more if it's oral. Now, I found that cream 's help some with sleep, but if I'm really targeting sleep, then I will use oral because I want to take advantage of the liver actually making a metabolite that time.

Speaker 9  1:50:40
And how much quantity do you give? What is that?

Speaker 1  1:50:44
So, you know what? Here's the deal. It's based on how out of balance they are. So, you know, I get this. I get the scenario here, if a patient has a blood pressure of 200 over 160 and the dose of the blood pressure medicine is between 50 and 200 milligrams. If their high blood pressure is that high, you give them 200 milligrams, right? If their blood pressure is 135 over 85 you're gonna give them the 50 or whatever. So it's the same way if you have testing, accurate testing. So let's say that the patient's estrogen is three, so that means her progesterone would have to be two times three would be 600 right? So let's say our ESTROGENS three and the progesterone is only 100 Well, that's a big gap. I may want to use a cream, because I don't want the liver to metabolize most of it, because I got to get a high dose. All right? If it's not that big of a gap, I can do oral or a little smaller dose. So I can't tell you what the DOB Well, here's what I'll tell you. My guidelines are. This is the lowest and highest. So the lowest amount of progesterone I used to give is 50. The highest is 200 that's oral, okay? Creams, I give anywhere from 10 to 40 milligrams, because, remember, none of it's getting metabolized, and a lot of it's going to stay in the tissue, all right, so I give it based on how big a gap I'm trying to fill, and then in three months, what I do is I tell them, I don't want you to take the progesterone for at least 48 hours, maybe in 72 hours, and then I want them to do the test. Why do I do that? Because if in three days of not taking the progesterone, and if their progesterone level is still high and it's higher than it should be, for the progesterone, the ESTROGENS balance to be 200 to one, then I know I'm giving them too much progesterone, and I want to stop that, or I don't want to get to the point where I get diminishing returns. So then I'm going to adjust the dose three months to make sure that it doesn't get to the point where it's so high that it gets she gets desensitized. And I learned that the harder way, hard way, because I didn't test, I didn't like retest people, and I'd have people come back six months later and say, Oh, it's not working anymore. And then I would do the test and I see that progesterone was through the roof. So whether the progesterone estrogen ratio is too much estrogen without enough progesterone, or if you have too much progesterone without enough, estrogen imbalance is bad. Balance is good. That's one of my other things. Balance is good, imbalance is bad. I don't care how you do the imbalance, it's still bad. So when you say, is estrogen good, or is progesterone good? Balance is good, imbalance is bad. See, Doctor Dario. See, see, when you're young, you have all these long explanations when you get out. I can do, I can I can narrow down all of my knowledge into about five little things

Bill Clearfield  1:53:41
we don't we don't have that much time left.

Speaker 9  1:53:46
Okay, I'm sorry, Doctor, I missed you. Said, how much do you start oral progesterone between five and 50? And what

Speaker 1  1:53:54
50 and 200 I mean, I only give anybody 50. Usually I start people at 100 and I'll go up to 200 and sometimes I'll go up a little bit higher than that, but if I have to go up higher than that, I'm gonna use the cream, because I'm gonna say, Yeah, she is not getting her to where it should be. So I 'll use the cream, and just monitor the cream and make sure it doesn't get too hot, make sure it's and so now, post menopause, if they use a cream, I tell them to use it for five days out of the week and take two days off, because I'm telling them, hey, look, I want your hormones levels to do this. Go up, go down, go up, go down. But they're all in this physiologic range. I want you to stay in this physiologic range. If you use, if you use a cream, or any kind of topical other than a patch, any kind of cream, what can happen if you don't take a break, it does this. And I know I'm backwards, but you see, it just keeps going up, up, up, up. And then when it gets up here, the patient's going to come back and say, it doesn't work. And if you don't test, what are you going to do? You're going to up the dose. And that's what happens with people with blood testing. They up the dose. And what will happen is they'll give them a cream, and they'll look in the blood. Are even, even estradiol patches. They'll put on a patch, look in the blood, and they say, Oh, you're not absorbing. If you look in the tissue, is there? Okay? It's not there. And so, so, so this page, this person who was on Tiktok, or whatever she was on. She was supposed to be a menopause specialist. She said that she was on the highest dose of a patch, but the doctor told her she wasn't a good absorber, so that's why he put her on oral and that's why he put her so so that's what happens when you look in the wrong department, you're going to make wrong decisions, and the patient is going to suffer. The patient's going to suffer. All right. So and then, and what happens is, a lot of times the patient comes to me, they don't go back to the doctor, or they go back to the doctor and they tell them that it's not working. They end up blame, blaming the patient, and they say, oh, no, this couldn't be right. Because, look, you couldn't be the patient will come in and say, Hey, I gained 20 pounds since I've been on estrogen. Oh, it can't be the estrogen. Look, your blood says you don't even have any estrogen. How could it be the estrogen? Well, it didn't happen until you put me on the estrogen, but your blood says it's no esteem. You're not even absorbing the ESTROGENS. It couldn't be the estrogen. Do you know how that pisses a patient off? It pisses a patient off. How are you going to tell me that I didn't gain this weight due to this progesterone when I was fine before that? So anyway, so hey, look, you guys, I can talk about this all day, all night. I really can't, and it's 10 o'clock, and my wife, I know she's going to say, I thought there

Unknown Speaker  1:56:41
was just supposed to be we will thank her for us,

Speaker 1  1:56:45
all right. And Dr Nari, I didn't mean to pick on you, but you're the youngest person here, and I just, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:56:52
don't worry about it.

Speaker 2  1:56:53
Yeah, no, this is what I want to say. Dr Taylor, this is really unadulterated, no filter. This is what we need to hear. Because us new guys, we always think about, oh, it's all about the science. But as I grew up with my my practice here, nothing beats experience. And you're talking about your experience. This is something that we have not gained, and we thank you for sharing that to us, learning really for us, especially for Stefan 's sister, this is what you need to hear, that it's not all about knowledge, and you're the boss when you're finishing medical school, about how you deal with,

Speaker 1  1:57:27
yeah, and it's all about having empathy. And see, I didn't have real empathy until I lived with until my wife started having these issues. And I'm like, this is not working. This is just not work. So I tell I tell people, hey, look, this is not an altruistic thing. This was to try and provide peace in my home. Okay, that was my goal. And then it ended up me talking and writing the books, but all I really wanted to do was my wife to stop yelling at me for two weeks before her period. That's all I wanted. And it ended up I'm doing this 30 years later. So so I was not on a mission to save the world. I was on a mission to have peace in my home. And that's all meant, let me tell you. Dr Nario, when you get married, when you get married, all you want is peace. Okay? Am I right? Dr Clearfield, is it

Speaker 5  1:58:28
all you want? You're asking the wrong one. Well, I've been married for 40 years. I haven't done so well in that category.

Speaker 1  1:58:37
I've been married for 40 years, and if I hadn't understood this, what I'm telling you, I would not be married today. I can guarantee you that. I can guarantee because we would not have been able to survive together in that situation. And I believe that. And you know, I did. I did a lecture on this, 39% of well, divorce rates have gone up by 35% in the last 20 years, but almost 40% of those are happening when women are in menopause, somewhere between age 40 and 60, when they've been married for at least 20 years, and then those hormones change, and they look at that guy and say, Why have I been putting up with this for this long? And they are the ones who are initiating this. But I really believe it's hormonal shifts.

Speaker 5  1:59:30
It sounds like a progesterone deficiency to me. It is. It is progesterone

Speaker 1  1:59:34
deficiency because progesterone is calming, and so at menopause, what happens is that progesterone goes down, and now we're right back into that puberty stage where everything irritates them, and if they feel bad, the person they're going to blame is the person who's closest to them, and that is their spouse. You are making me feel bad, isn't it? They don't know anything about stress and corticosteroid and hormones and all that stuff. It's got to be you, and I'm going to get rid of you, yeah, to get rid of my hot flashes. And the reason why I can't sleep is because it's you and and that's what's happening you guys. So I'm on a mission tomorrow. I'm doing a podcast, and I'm talking about stress and relationships, is that you know the reason why? And it's really talking about how children who grow up in a where there's a stressful relationship between the mother and the father affects them for their whole lives, and so that we have to learn how to have a reasonable relationship as a as a parent, if we want our kids to not have anxiety and depression and all that stuff, it's, they're they're picking it up from home and how. And whenever a patient comes in and says, Hey, I've been, you know, I'm anxious and depressed. I say, Well, how long have you been like that? And they say, all my life. I don't remember not being anxious. I say, Well, who was the alcoholic in your family? The mother of the Father? Because almost always, that's it, because they don't remember not being anxious, because they were always anxious. Even, you know, they just they don't remember why they're anxious, but there was imprinted upon them very early on, that life is unstable, okay? And I need to be worried about what might happen, because when my father comes home drunk, he starts throwing things and all that stuff and so, anyway, so, but it's all because they're stressed. But anyway, I know it's time to go everybody you know, this is what I tell you guys. We will allow you to

Bill Clearfield  2:01:43
go back to your lovely wife. Thank you. Enough, I know we didn't get to some of the questions in the chat, yeah, if I gather them, maybe I'll

Speaker 1  2:01:54
yeah, and, you know, I'll give you my contact information. You know, if you want to, you know, anything I'd love to, you know, converse with you be

Unknown Speaker  2:02:03
definitely, we're definitely inviting you back.

Speaker 1  2:02:06
Yeah, and look, I know the I can give, I'll give you my, my contact information, Dr Clearfield, and you can send it out. And if anybody wants to contact me, that's fine.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:19
All right, thank you guys. Thank you so much. Thank you so much for being with us. And like I said, you one of one of my one of my first hormone heroes so

Speaker 1  2:02:29
well, thank I appreciate everything you guys. Thank you for your attention. All right, please.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:33
Thank you Good night. Everybody. Good night. Okay? Everybody, well, I don't know about you, but like I said, we're on early that so dr Taylor was actually one of my first mentors way back when, and as you can see, he he's done well in spite of having graduated me. But anyway, next week, Dr Klauser and I are going to present a very interesting case. So we're going to do a case study next week, and it covers a lot of a lot of the issues that we deal with, some of them that we dealt with tonight. This was a case that he actually sent me to see what I thought about it, and I thought it would be great to present it to the group and see if you know everybody here has other, some other ideas, and we can help us out, because we're talking about a young lady, and she's got a lot of issues, a lot of, a lot of the issues that we talk about from week to week. So that's next week. Our CME provider still AWOL, so I'm not sure what's going on with that. If it continues, I'm going to see we're going to start searching out for another one. The the podcast, the webinars, now are eligible for two Nevada homeopathic what's the official title? Dr Nerio and the homeopathic board of examiners. Yeah. CE credits, yep. So I have, I have every week I get the participant list. So it should be, actually fairly simple to keep track of it. So if you need homeopathic credits for the state of Nevada, you know, just get in touch with me. Let me know if you've been on. You know, we'll, we'll get some sort of acknowledgement to you. You need 20 a year, right to keep the to keep the peace, right? Okay, and so, anybody have any any questions, Dr Quinn, you got anything from the research people, if you're still on,

Speaker 4  2:04:43
yeah, stuff going on, but I don't want to take up time with it now. We'll catch it up

Bill Clearfield  2:04:47
next week. Okay? And any, any conferences coming up, Dr Nario, we're going to start coming out of my hibernation from the last one. I think, I think we're getting ready to gear up again. I'm thinking maybe the end of, end of August, beginning of September before, if that's not too soon. So check, check your schedule, and we'll see that. You know, you have, you know, all the big ones have lots of stuff in October and November. So, and I mean, we did the one in the week before a for m, I guess it was okay.

Speaker 2  2:05:24
Yeah, we're ready. Better. Better be we're going to be better.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:29
We'll have, hopefully we'll be a little bit better organized. You know, have a little bit more time to to put things together.

Speaker 2  2:05:35
We did it on Organize, and we did it. What more if we get ready for it.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:40
Well, you didn't see the budget. We the the it. People hit us with, hit me with a bill that I was I knew it would be some but I wasn't. I didn't know it was going to be as much as it was. So we actually ended up losing money or so. So for the next one, one people less, we fed you too, well. So are you gonna get it back?

Speaker 9  2:06:03
May I ask when it's going to be the next conference in April?

Bill Clearfield  2:06:07
We haven't decided exactly yet. I'm thinking the end of August, beginning of September. Yeah. I mean, the last time I put it, we put it together in two and a half months, and it was a bit of a strain. So, so that that'll give us enough time to get organized and be unless you want to do it and go for it, and we can do it at the end of April. So, but that's, that's my thought. I mean, if anybody else has any other thoughts, that's fine. And if you have any other venues other than Renin, let me know. It's easy for me here, though. So so we'll see you again next week, same time, same station. I thought Dr Taylor was just, you know, superb. And, you know, and he was quite delightful. So if anybody has any speakers they want to suggest, please let me know, because we're always, you know, always looking for fresh blood here. So. And if you have any conferences coming up, I will be in Miami twice. 's ' be in Miami March 20 and 21st at the American Academy of stem cell physicians. And then I will be at the age management Medical Group ammg at the dobral National in April, 15 to the 20th so.

Speaker 2  2:07:33
So for me, I have aprm online for women's hormones and spring Congress, I will be there lecturing in Florida.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:43
Okay? Longevity fest.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:48
That's December. Longevity

Bill Clearfield  2:07:50
fest is the is the a 4m conference online,

Speaker 2  2:07:54
the women's hormones. But the spring Congress probably isn't

Bill Clearfield  2:07:59
there, isn't there something at the end of February here coming up.

Speaker 2  2:08:02
I think that's, that's, those are modules. So, yeah, I'm not sure about that. I'm not involved with that. Okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:12
Well, if you're interested in it, I guess go on their website and they'll tell you

Speaker 9  2:08:20
that it's a conference in Jamaica, outside the country you know about with the zone,

Bill Clearfield  2:08:28
okay, were they doing Ayahuasca? There's running that one.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:34
It costs $5,000

Bill Clearfield  2:08:36
wow, maybe they are doing Ayahuasca game. Yeah, I realized, when doing the accounting for our program, why the program seems so much more expensive the food prices from when I did the last one three years ago that doubled tariffs. Yeah, and I, you know, I got a lot of complaints about the cost of the conference from the from the home. It homeopathic people. But for the next time, too bad. Well, we ran, you know, Dr Burgess. We ran two conferences last year, and kind of got, got our heads handed to us on both of them. So we need, we need to at least break even. So we're gonna do it. We're gonna do all right, so So we'll do it. Okay? Anybody have any comments or questions?

Speaker 9  2:09:28
No, it's such a wonderful conference. We'll

Bill Clearfield  2:09:31
get we'll get the videos up as soon as we can. And thank you all for being here and being with us. Please bring a friend so we can continue our legacy, so I'm going to say good night for now. Thank you. Dr narios, thank you. Dr Quinn, Joel, thank you everybody else. Dr Tanno, Dr Burgess and everybody else, and all our regulars here, so we'll see you again next week.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:56
Thank you. Thank.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai