Bill Clearfield  00:19
Hello, Dr Phil and Gaines. Hello, so we need you to unmute yourself. Oh, I am muted. There we go, right. Thank you for being with us.

Speaker 1  00:38
It's a joy. Now. Do you have this where I can share screen? Because I don't share screen,

Bill Clearfield  00:49
I just see you share screen should be down right at the bottom there.

Speaker 1  00:52
It is supposed to be, but it's not. So I think you're going to have to give me permission to share screen. On your end changing.

Bill Clearfield  01:01
That. They keep changing this thing. So I use zoom

Speaker 1  01:05
all the time on the very bottom, where on the where the error is by the share screen, it's got a yes, no.

Bill Clearfield  01:15
It says, Now I'm sharing. You're sharing. They don't want me to share. They want, we want you to share.

Speaker 1  01:22
Push on the error. And when you do that, it's going to say one of the options, return

Bill Clearfield  01:28
to meeting. I don't know. They keep changing this thing that's I got the same thing again,

Speaker 1  01:33
put, put on the very top of the screen. It'll say, in share. Click on that. In share. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  01:40
Got that stop share. Okay.

Speaker 1  01:42
Now when you go to the bottom where it says Share Screen, click on the side,

Bill Clearfield  01:47
see the share settings.

Speaker 1  01:50
Well, to not share settings, you don't want to go to that one. It's not where it says share screen. There's an error on the side. And when you click, on that.

Bill Clearfield  02:00
Got that removed from toolbar. Host tools for share. Is that what I want? Who can share? All participants?

Unknown Speaker  02:08
Yes, if you change it to that, we're in good shape, right?

Bill Clearfield  02:12
I didn't, didn't know that I had. I thought it was always on that,

Speaker 1  02:16
no, it's got to be done. So far we've

Bill Clearfield  02:19
been, we've been, we've been doing this for five years. I've never had to do that. Alright, try it now. Sharehold windows.

Unknown Speaker  02:30
I don't have a share screen yet.

Bill Clearfield  02:34
Alright, Doctor Tanner, I know you're wrong.

Speaker 2  02:36
Yeah. So there are three. If you look at where it says more, click on that more.

Bill Clearfield  02:43
Which one? Which one is it?

Speaker 2  02:45
It says more. So after Okay, more, click on more. The Share Screen is right there. So for him, he can do that

Bill Clearfield  02:57
all the way over on the right. It says more, yeah, normally my normally my share screen is green, but it's not

Speaker 2  03:06
click on this share screen, which is the app arrow pointing up in your in that area where they have the

Bill Clearfield  03:15
shared settings, Yes, enter into full screen when others share. Scale to Fit. Choose individual windows. Share all windows show green border when around my shared content.

Speaker 2  03:33
Yeah, so you guys are going too fast. So in the more there's a share, and you click that arrow that says share, that's it,

Bill Clearfield  03:43
okay, over on the right, all the way over on the right is, it's it? There's a more, at least on my screen, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  03:53
So click on the share.

Speaker 1  03:57
I don't think it says share there, at least not on my Zoom. It doesn't,

Bill Clearfield  04:03
yeah, I've always had, I've always had to share right in the center at the bottom of all those things, and it's always been green. But right now it's, it's not,

Speaker 2  04:10
yeah, go back. Go back to where you were before, instead of changing the setting.

Unknown Speaker  04:22
Settings. It's got a share screen there.

Bill Clearfield  04:39
Okay, you got it now, Dr Phil and gang. It's not us.

Bill Clearfield  05:03
You know, I don't know why, you know, like I said, normally it's green, but it's

Speaker 2  05:07
not, yeah, I have it. So I don't know you should have it too in that area where the tree does, where you have the I've got it now, I've got it now. Yeah, okay, we're

Bill Clearfield  05:18
in good so I don't know what we did. Dr Tanno, but hey, what? Yes, it did. He, he's the smart one in the group. So without him, we're, we're all dead meat. Without him,

Unknown Speaker  05:35
that doesn't work.

Unknown Speaker  05:41
So

Bill Clearfield  05:51
also here, Dr crouch, made the wrong person the co host here. Burger, if you want to be co host, you're your co host.

Unknown Speaker  06:13
Okay, to really gonna go to me? I mean this week,

Bill Clearfield  06:18
no, in the 15th, so is it next week? No, two weeks. Two weeks. Yeah, okay, let's Kate. All right. So, Dr Nario, I think your co host now, and Dr Berger ended up being co host also, and Joel's here, yeah, in two weeks, I'm going to Miami, and then I just turned in my IFM lecture today, so,

Speaker 3  06:46
but that's a that's a sure in right? That's not like a sound like a screening procedure.

Bill Clearfield  06:53
No, no, no, they I got, I got a regular one. Not like the androgynous society where they gave me five minutes. I went all the way to San Francisco and I got five minutes to talk.

Unknown Speaker  07:03
This one, you got 10 minutes?

Bill Clearfield  07:06
Uh, no, this one they gave me, I think they gave me 30 minutes and 15 minutes of question and answer so that's, I can get it done.

Speaker 3  07:15
Hey, that's, that's the page. That's, that's fine. It's all yours.

Bill Clearfield  07:20
Yeah. So, yeah, we're moving on up.

Unknown Speaker  07:24
So you're getting recognized the scientists of the year.

Bill Clearfield  07:30
I'm telling you, you know, I either I'm doing something right or I'm paying off the right people. I don't know it's one of

Unknown Speaker  07:40
the better get the checks coming. Shoulder pain,

Bill Clearfield  07:45
the checks, the checks are, the checks are flying like, like, nobody's business, so changing the ac joint grade, so Okay, so I don't know, our participation has been dwindling, though, so we're gonna have to do something here. They have to do something drastic.

Unknown Speaker  08:21
You're going to give out cash prices,

Bill Clearfield  08:24
either that or we're going to send out the, you know, we're going to we're going to gleam our email list and send out a leg breakers.

Speaker 4  08:33
That's right, change of season. I think people are,

Bill Clearfield  08:39
oh, you know, we always have an excuse, right? Change it actually to today's today it's back to almost feels like it's going to snow here after it's been a whole month of almost like summer, like weather here in Reno anyway.

Speaker 3  08:54
I know it's weird. Are you here? Are you here, Joel, or you're in Vegas? Yeah, I sure am. I'll see you know what it's all about, you betcha. I think that's it. This is going to be the tail end of this. So, right?

Speaker 4  09:11
We're going to be good. You think people are away for because of Easter

Unknown Speaker  09:16
that too? That is possible.

Bill Clearfield  09:22
What are they doing at this hour, they're away because Dr filling game. Where are you at? You in Ohio, Mississippi. Oh, Mississippi. Okay. Well, I'm going to thank Adam for introducing you. You to us. So we've been we've been we've been here. We've been doing this since 2020. Been here every Tuesday except for the last two weeks. Two is Tuesdays of 2024 which were Tuesday night for Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. So I took off said, other than that, other than that, we've been here. That's amazing. Yeah. So. And usually we start with Dr Nario here. Dr Nario has been taking the Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship at the University of Arizona, so he gives us the tip of the week here with the week of the week, he does. He calls it all right, that way the rest of us don't have to go. So I can glean from the videos every week I could probably put together like a whole curriculum, from what you've taught us so far, how much more do you have to go?

Unknown Speaker  10:35
More fewer months we're getting there. I'm the courtside reporter.

Bill Clearfield  10:42
And then, then, what do you what is it that you're allowed to do that the rest of us can't? Well, you just get more letters after your name.

Speaker 3  10:51
Oh, you get the fellowship title. That's what you get. Oh, okay,

Speaker 5  10:56
you're difficult to apply. Is it difficult to apply?

Speaker 3  10:59
Dr, Mario, oh, no, they, they, you just pass your they, they want to ask you about your like statements, and they have specific questions for you. It is a it is a little bit competitive, as they were saying, but I just passed mine. I'm sure you're going to get in there. You're pretty knowledgeable.

Bill Clearfield  11:24
Is it as rigorous as the homeopathic license?

Unknown Speaker  11:30
Nothing's harder than that.

Bill Clearfield  11:34
It took six years.

Unknown Speaker  11:36
It took

Bill Clearfield  11:39
six years for them to get around to processing the papers. That's what took so long.

Speaker 3  11:44
So patronel, it's two years, if you could finish it that way, but there are students that needs a little bit more time, because everybody's working. Things happen in life. I've seen it. I've seen classmates being there three four years. So really depends, but two years is kind of like the minimum. You're probably going to breeze through that. So you already know everything.

Bill Clearfield  12:13
Okay, well, I don't know about everything, but next to it, we know next to everything, the

Speaker 5  12:21
confidence for stem cells, and I feel so bad, because I feel like it's so important. It was so important.

Bill Clearfield  12:28
Were you were in Miami? Dr Anthony, no,

Speaker 5  12:31
I was not. No, I was not. I wanted to go to Sacha, la tipo VA and Dr Marquis. They came to Rochester on that Saturday, and I bought a ticket. And Miss Bowen was there too. You should, you

Bill Clearfield  12:44
should have, you should have been there on Saturday night when they named the scientist of the year 2026

Speaker 5  12:53
Yes, that was so. I'm very proud of you. Dr Clearfield, I'm in your group.

Bill Clearfield  13:03
Yeah? Me, yeah, me, too. It was, it was it was, it was quite the surprise. I'm still trying to figure out what the hell it is that I did.

Speaker 3  13:13
So we better get your signature before it gets Yeah, before

Bill Clearfield  13:17
my head gets too big. Here I said I had a pretty good week. I got, I got a speaking engagement at the International Conference of the Institute for Functional Medicine. I was named the doctor of the Year at the stem cell American Academy of stem cell physicians and and, you know, in Reno, where we've been running, two years running, the best Men's Clinic, weight women's clinic and weight loss clinic two years running now, yeah, I don't know, right? As my father used to say that that 25 cents will get you a phone call.

Speaker 3  13:52
Yeah, you're like the Michael Jordan of integrative medicine.

Bill Clearfield  13:57
Well, I don't know about that. Maybe, maybe Beetle Bailey, I don't

Speaker 5  14:04
know I, I'm, I'm in another group. So good. I study peptides and genetic and epigenetic training, and I told Doctor ace and Doctor Nazia if she if they want to join, if they want to attend the class here too. And I have another colleague of mine that he actually had leukemia, but now he's he's not doing very well, and I told him, maybe if he wants to join this class too, but I do not know if they will. That's doctor, right? Dr Nazia, she's a cardiologist in Minneapolis, okay,

Bill Clearfield  14:52
so, Dr Nario, it's a little bit after five, okay, so why don't you give us our Tip of the Week here, because I know our speakers anxious to

Speaker 3  15:04
get going here. So good. Alright. So, so, okay, so let's, let's start here. So when we talk about vitamin K in the clinic, it's usually the sidekick, so Robin to Batman, teller to pen, Clyde to Bonnie. So it's always take this with your vitamin D. When we give instructions, give this for your bones. Helps keeps calcium out of your arteries. So well, Vitamin K is basically their responsible friend that makes sure vitamin D doesn't ruin your life. Well, here's the thing. So let's go back to the basics. There are two main forms of vitamin K. Vitamin k1 fellow, quinone found abundantly in leafy greens, and it mainly supports clotting factors in liver and also good for overall intake, but limited bioavailability for bones and blood vessels. Vitamin k2 which is the menaquinones. This is the real star for actually the this the benefits are more outside of the liver, and it comes in two subtypes, MK four, which is short chain. Bund in animal foods like liver, egg yolks and meat, it converts quickly, but needs, I guess, higher dosing. MK seven, and this is the more popular one, is the longer chain, which has more, I guess, maybe longer half life, if it's a better term, days instead of hours, better absorbed and retained in tissues, more and primarily from fermented foods like Naro. So Naro, I don't know if you're very courageous in tasting Naro, but the Japanese fermented food to beans, and studies show they're superior for bone and cardiovascular health. So we've all been taught this for years. Vitamin K activates two key proteins, osteocalcin, which helps with bone mineralization, and matrix GLA protein, which prevents calcium from building up in arteries. So we usually think bones arteries and done right, but that framing might be incomplete. Now, what if vitamin K isn't just directing calcium. What if it's also playing a bigger role in metabolism and how we age functionally? So let's dig in into new evidence. A 2026, meta analysis of Ahmed and colleagues looked at randomized, controlled trials, and they found that supplementing with vitamin K, both k1 and two, led to reduce fasting glucose, lower hemoglobin, a, 1c and improves coma, IR, so this suggests better insulin sensitivity. Interestingly, stronger effects were seen at lower doses. So we don't have to go to so the the range recommendation is 900 to 200 micrograms. So lower doses are probably effective also, and sometimes in shorter durations, even under 12 weeks. So there was a no consistent change in fasting insulin or better cell function. So this doesn't look like it's stimulating the pancreas directly. It appears to be improving peripheral insulin sensitivity a little bit more. So this raises an important question. Is osteocalcin not just a bone protein, but maybe actually a metabolic hormone we've been underutilizing, right? So we're also seeing interesting data in frailty and functional aging. So in 2022 Azuma and colleagues studied over 800 older adults, averaging around mid 70s, and they found that people with highest ratios of under carboxylated osteocalcin to total osteocalcin. So this is a clear marker of vitamin K. Insufficiency had about 2.5 times higher odds of frailty. So they also show trends towards slower walking speed and lower physical activity levels. So now we're just not talking about bones and arteries. We're talking about muscle function, mobility and even overall resilience as we age. So before I end this, so let's quickly debunk a common myth. Many patients and doctors still believe Vitamin K is dangerous if you're on blood thinners. Here's the truth, Vitamin K directly opposes the mechanism of warfarin, so big changes in Vitamin K intake can swing your INR. The key here is consistency, not elimination. Patients should keep their vitamin K intake stable. Importantly, this interaction is far less relevant to the newer direct oral anticoagulants like products or Eliquis, which don't work through vitamin K pathways. So maybe vitamin K isn't just to take this with your vitamin D. So maybe it's a metabolic modulator, a frailty signal and a longevity lever, hiding in plain sight. So vitamin K has been quietly doing its job while been giving all the credit to vitamin D, so which honestly feels like a group project where one person did all the work. So that's my leak of the week, or Tip of the Week.

Bill Clearfield  19:39
Okay, so when we've had, who was the guy who has the bone supplements, he always recommends MK four, right?

Speaker 3  19:53
So, but, yeah, I don't know. I'm still seeing on, literally, MK seven, because, again, the osteocalcin function is the one that kind of pops up? I mean, MK four is short acting. You probably want to give it a little bit more. So when there's looking at the effectivity of this, really the difference between two, the the two is the longer acting you have to give MK seven in like less amounts, meaning frequencies versus MK four. And I've seen a study that they do work almost similarly if you follow the same regimen for both. But really the standout, as I've been seeing, is MK seven. I'm sure Dr news that has his own resources for there for

Bill Clearfield  20:33
MK four, what you have doses for the vitamin

Speaker 3  20:36
K, yeah. So on the studies, the 90 to 200 micrograms that was the, that was the study, for the for the the glucose regulation,

Bill Clearfield  20:51
how, how about, how about the serum levels? Do you measure them at all or any type of level?

Speaker 3  20:59
So the one that they're using is the carboxylated level. So those, those levels are, I think it was only a special research lab that was doing that. So it's not something that, when you measure vitamin K directly for serum, there's no there. I haven't seen that on my on my readings. So it's really more of the carboxylated versions, which, again, it's specifically the term is under carboxylated osteocalcin to total osteocalcin ratio. So that's how they measure vitamin K insufficiency.

Bill Clearfield  21:33
But I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna take the the bold step here, and ask our speaker, who's a cardiologist, about vitamin K, any vitamin K issues in your field line of work at all? Has that come up at all?

Speaker 1  21:52
Well, it's discussed quite often. And to clarify, I'm actually family practitioner board certified, but my entire practice was devoted to cardiovascular risk reduction. So okay, that might have been a mischaracterization, but yes, Vitamin K is a player, and I thought that was a wonderful Tip of the Week.

Bill Clearfield  22:15
Typically, we got, we think Dr Neri has got one every week for us,

Speaker 3  22:20
when you're using vitamin K and vitamin D, do not forget magnesium. So magnesium is the activator for this pathway of actually helping vitamin D and Vitamin K work better to build stronger bones and actually prevent the the accumulation of calcium in our arteries. So magnesium has to be there.

Bill Clearfield  22:40
How much magnesium? So their

Speaker 3  22:42
recommendation is elemental. Magnesium around 300 to 500 milligrams. So that's elemental. And again, we have a whole topic of discussion about the different types. So the ones that literature was showing evidence for this would be the glycinate in the citrate. So they haven't focused more on the toroid in the threonates.

Unknown Speaker  23:01
Okay, you need to take these at the same time.

Speaker 3  23:03
Yeah, so, that's right.

Bill Clearfield  23:07
Well, is there? Have you found a supplement? So, so d we, we have a lot of DS with Ks, or they have any, any DS, Ks and magnesiums together, or that you've, hey, that's an idea

Unknown Speaker  23:17
for Dr news that,

Speaker 5  23:19
yeah, yeah. It has to be k2 is it k2 because k1 it's anti war, fighting.

Speaker 3  23:26
It's food. Yeah, it's also food produced, which is k1 the phyto Quinones, as we call it. So k2 is the one that actually is for extra cellular, meaning, not in the liver, more for bones, for arteries, but for the for the k1 it's focused more on the actual liver.

Speaker 6  23:45
Do you know anything about calcium and and vascular fragility?

Unknown Speaker  23:50
Calcium and with relation to vitamin D and k2

Speaker 6  23:55
or just vitamin No. I mean, not necessarily with D just vitamin k1 I think it's vitamin k2 that I had read about this years ago, and it's a connection to vascular fragility and the risk for strokes, right?

Speaker 3  24:10
So aneurysms, for that matter, right? Well, yeah, so I think this is going back to that discussion of the the matrix GLA protein. So when vitamin K gets into the system, it decarboxylates Matrix GLA and that's the one that actually prevents the the entry of calcium going into your blood vessels, thus diverting it away going towards the bone. So if you don't not activating that or decarboxylating it, it's going to calcify that, thus maybe going to your frailty question and even aneurysm question, I'm assuming that, so I'm just trying to connect the the details there.

Speaker 6  24:49
Yeah, I had read it a long time ago. I and this can be kind of a crazy story, but in 2016 my mother died unexpectedly of a brain aneurysm, and I actually, as a medical person had the ability to take her saliva and send it in, which I did, and when I got the results back, you know, you can download the genome from 23andme I uploaded it up to, I think it was pure encapsulations. Had some sort of program where you could take those genetics and find out if there was any, if they had made any connection to an increased risk in certain, you know, health problems. And she came up with, like this, lessened ability to make k2 I was sure it was k2 and so then that's when I looked into and then there's a, you know, a history, a family history, of vascular strokes, not clotting strokes on that side of the family. And I have three sisters, and we all bruise very easily, and so, and I don't know what our calcium scores were. I don't know if there's, you know, if any of us did that beforehand, but I encourage them and myself to increase our k2 intake, and at least two of them have gotten back to me. And you know, we don't bruise nearly as much.

Speaker 3  26:15
I we need to look into the genetics of this too. I haven't looked into it that much.

Speaker 7  26:21
May I interject here? I'm Joanie. Nice to meet you. Excuse the San Fernan background. No idea what it's there, but I actually do research on the glycocalyx and the microvascular health score, and with exposure to lipid envelope viruses like covid and annexin levels, and so we see with an unstable, unstable glycocalyx, which is the vascular lining that there's increased risk for stroke, dissection, even miscarriage, because of implantation rates lower and absorption being lower, lower. So I would love to touch base with you after and give you some information on that, and I just get passionate about it and interrupt. So yeah, for your patients.

Speaker 6  27:00
I also wonder if there's any connection between k2 levels and ability to make it and all that and various cost cities.

Unknown Speaker  27:10
Oh, that, I'm not sure. Yeah. I don't

Unknown Speaker  27:13
know either. I just thought of it when you're talking Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  27:18
And so it goes, Dr Phil and gain this. This is how this is how it goes here. So, so everybody, thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Dr Nario, as always and everybody. So I'd like to introduce you all to Dr Sam filling gain. He's going to speak to us on the next evolution of the EKG or ECG. It's going to marry it to AI and Dr filling gain was one of the first physicians in the United States to medically reverse coronary plaque. He's going to tell us how he did that. He spent decades refining and teaching his strategies that move beyond symptom management and target root cause pathology. We're going to learn how to identify and treat true drivers of cardiovascular disease. He's going to discuss his clinical application of his 11 state inflammatory disease model, and he's going to discuss proven strategies to stabilize and reverse plaque progression, things that we can implement immediately. He's an associate clinical professor at William Carey University of college of osteopathic medicine, the leader in the national cardiovascular laboratories as medical director and director of medical education, and he reaches global audiences through a television program straight to the heart. His mission is clear, to transform cardiovascular outcomes through precision, education and innovation. So if we treat cardiovascular disease, and we all do, whether we admit it or not or we want to do better, Dr Sam, is for you so. Dr Sam, thank you for being with us. It's always an honor to have somebody new, and we're here every Tuesday at this time, at five o'clock Pacific and eight o'clock Eastern, and the floor is yours.

Speaker 1  29:13
Well, thank you for having me tonight, and I have a lot I'd like to share with you. I only have so much time, so we're gonna have to move a little faster. We have,

Bill Clearfield  29:25
we have endless Tuesdays. So if, if we don't like you, we're gonna ask you back three times. And if we do like you, we'll ask you back maybe twice.

Speaker 1  29:34
So so go for it. Ask me back less. If you do like me, you'll have to explain that one day, but thank you. I am the medical director of a company called cardio vision. Is a sideline, because I'm extremely passionate about seeing the end of cardiovascular disease or see it significantly diminished. Cardiovascular disease is preventable. If caught early, you can reverse this disease, and if you catch it late, you can still reverse it. It's just more complicated. I spent the bulk of my career, 34 years, working on reversal techniques. About 1998 I started getting a significant reversal, and from that point forward, I've been teaching it. This device that I'm fixing to share with you is going to be the cat's meow. We all hear about artificial intelligence, and this is a device that's been in development for 25 years. There's a cardiologist out of New York who quit practice in medicine only to devote his entire time to this project, and he's been developing it, getting peer reviewed studies done simultaneously with advancing other parts of the cardiovascular world. And I this device was ready to come out in year 2000 covid hit. It ended up coming out in 2022 and it's quite the phenomenon. I'm fixing to share my screen so you can see some slides, and we shall go from there. Tell me if you can see it. Are you seeing it on your end? Yes, all right,

Bill Clearfield  31:20
yes, we have it

Speaker 1  31:22
this device. Well, before I get into that, let's talk about objectives. I want you to, before tonight's over, to understand what this device is and how it works. I want you to see 26 areas of the heart that you've never been able to see historically, especially not with an EKG. I heard calcium scoring discussed just a minute ago. This is going to replace calcium scoring because it's much more advanced. It sees everything calcium score. It sees but sees a lot more. Not all plaque is calcified, so this will see the plaque that's not calcified, but it will also see things like small vessel disease, and we'll get into all the details of other things it sees, which makes it incredibly it's like collagen kindergarten to a calcium scanner. I want you to understand how this information can be interpreted on a report. I'm going to show you three reports, and then I'm going to try to show you how to utilize this information to begin the process of reversing plaque in your practice, if you're not already doing it, the this device, I'm going to leave it on this where I just changed slide to slide so you I can use my cursor. You see the multifunctional Cardiogram in the top left hand of the screen. It's got four clips that go with these electrodes. And basically it's a two lead EKG. You're looking at lead two and v5 looking at two different planes. And you will hook these clips two to the wrist, two to the ankles, and the patient lays on a table for approximately seven to eight minutes. You're going to get five testings of 82 seconds apiece. If, for some reason the quality of the data is not good, you'll go an extra 82 seconds. But suffice it to say, from the time you hook a person up to the time you're finished is on average, about 10 minutes. Now this device has been around for a while. We've got over 3 million people tested with it. It's gone through 25 years of research now we used 100,000 patient Cardiovision database to understand what these different signals meant, and there's a lot of fancy math that goes into this artificial intelligence equation. Now, one of the reasons this device is able to see so much more than a traditional EKG is that it uses the frequency domain and it removes the time domain. I want you to imagine having a radio turning the dial and changing the frequency. You get a different station at each frequency. And the same thing happens with electricity. These electricity signals are telling us something different at each frequency, and over a period of years, this Cardiovision was able to associate what each bar code meant for each part of the heart, and it became a passion. This project is huge. We've all used Google in our day to day life, and I can only imagine how many things Google does and how big the platform is. But if you actually measure what went into the production of this product, and the size of the program. The MCG program, is much larger than Google. So that should give you an idea of how much programming went into this project. It sees 26 things about the heart and it's a game changer. This is an EKG so it's safe. You can do it on a pregnant patient. You can do it on a baby. You can do it on an older person. You can do someone fragile. You can do it on someone who's totally healthy. You can do it day to day to day. You could repeat it in a month or two months or three months, and it's incredibly safe and credibly informative.

Speaker 1  35:43
Now, one of the things that's special about McG is it lets you detect early coronary disease. Most of our devices, like nuclear stress testing stress echo, Cardiogram, catches disease in the later forms of disease once you get 70 80% blockage. This device will pick up plaque at the 10% level on and so you can have early plaque, like you see on this part of the picture, more progressive plaque, slightly more progressive. And then you can tell when it starts getting more and more severe. So it's picking up plaque at a very early age and a very late age. Now, one of the things I get excited about on this project is it gives you a cardiovascular score. Now, that score is something that your patients can get yearly as part of their physical. I envision this to be a test that's done on everyone's year to yearly physical over the age of 30, and possibly younger, if there were other risk factors associated with that person. But imagine if you came in the first year and you saw a risk score, a cardiovascular score of 1.8 so you come you're given instructions, diet, exercise, what to do, and you come back the second year, and your score has gotten worse, 2.5 the scoring system goes from zero to 22 with anything over four being significant. The average heart attack occurs at 4.6 so that should give you an idea how significant over four is. Well, if you went from 1.8 to 2.5 clearly what you're doing is not working. So then you you tighten up a little bit, the patient tries a little harder, and lo and behold, they come back the next year, they're 2.0 this is going to give you, the physician and the patient a chance to better evaluate how they're doing and catch problems before they get severe. We've for too long, reacted to extreme problems with extreme measures, in many cases, not effectively. Now we've got a chance to catch things early and address them before they become serious. Now imagine having a score of 0.0 and how that would feel at the end of your physical. So for patients who are doing well, it's going to give them extreme levels of comfort that what they're doing is working. Well, imagine if you had a score of 6.8 and yet you have not had a heart attacks, because, by the grace of God, you've got collateral circulation that bought you some time. Imagine going from that 6.8 to a four a year later. Imagine going from a four to 2.2 the amount of encouragement that would give you, it would also be giving you other details beyond this score, but I think this score is going to be a huge, huge plus for future patients coming in for checkups with their physician. Now, hey, I got part of the picture cut off, but this patient dealing with small vessel disease is something that has been off the radar of pretty much everything in the United States. About the only machine that we have that tests for small vessel disease is called a cardio pulmonary exercise test, and it's not done very often the United States. There's only four centers in the United States that train doctors in cardio pulmonary exercise testing. It's very popular in Europe. I used to have a cardio pulmonary exercise it took me two years to learn how to interpret it. Was exquisitely complicated. However, it was useful. Now we have a machine that is actually incredibly simple to interpret everyone that's on this recording. I could actually teach how to do this in two year, two hours in one session, in most cases, occasionally a second session. And that being said, what took two years to do before you can get in two hours and you can start catching this problem now, small vessel disease, a study back in 2007 published in circulation, showed that 49% of women had small vessel disease. 15% of men had small vessel disease. I reviewed the data several weeks ago, found out that women now,

Speaker 1  40:33
newer studies are showing up to 60 and 70% of women have small vessel disease before they develop large vessel disease, and it's become a real problem, because it creates not only problems that leads to heart attacks, but it's causing problems that leads to congestive heart failure, usually through the cardiomyopathy pathway. So small vessel disease has been off the radar for too long. We now have a mechanism in which to see it, and if you see it, then you can actually score it with this device. So if your small vessel disease is at a 3.6 level this year, and it's at a 2.5 level the next year, you know that your treatment's working. If it goes worse, then you know you're not doing as well. Now, the average heart attack occurs at 4.6 with a patient with large vessel disease, the average heart attack occurs between six and eight when a person has small vessel disease, this machine will pick up a weakening heart six to eight years before they develop clinical, obvious heart failure. So with six to eight years of advanced warning, you can't help but do better at causing a lessening of disease. We've got approximately 300,000 people a year that die from heart failure. We've got 5 million patients in the United States along with heart failure, but each of these patients, had we had access to this information, could have done things to reduce their inflammation source that would have prevented them from ever going on to that area of heart failure, if you just knew that that was what you were dealing with. I'm probably more excited about this next one, mitochondrial dysfunction, than anything I've told you so far, because mitochondrial dysfunction is becoming such a big player in disease, not just Cardiovision disease. It's a big player in autoimmune illness. It's a big player in cancer. And so the fact that you've got a device now that you can readily pick up mitochondrial dysfunction in the office with a simple EKG like test, where in minutes, you can know if a person has mitochondrial dysfunction, and it gives you a score from one to 10, and once you've got that score, you can follow up that patient with further McG studies that can tell you if your treatment is effectively eliminating the mitochondrial dysfunction, because if we don't eliminate the mitochondrial dysfunction, the chances of a catastrophe occurring in short order are very high. If they don't get Cardiovision events, they're prone to get autoimmune illness. This is that patient that gets one cancer right after another, and you soon as you get well from one, you just develop another. And it's something that now is easily detectable with a multifunctional Cardiogram. This device sees rhythm disturbances months before they occur. It's a scoring system of zero to five. When you start getting one to two out of five, you're beginning to get some risk, but usually not incredibly bad. Once it gets to four out of five or five out of five, the risk is substantial. What Yuyuan see with this device is when a person is headed in the direction of ventricle fibrillation or headed in the direction of atrial fibrillation, that person that just goes to bed and doesn't wake up, that's your ventricle fibrillation patient. Had you had a multifunctional Cardiogram ahead of time, you would have known this patient was fixing to get in trouble, and could have done something about it. But having not had this ability, you likely would not have known atrial fibrillation, not as dangerous as ventricle fibrillation, but certainly leads to increased risk of strokes. It cuts out your cardiac ejection fraction by 10 to 15% especially when you get to rapid response rates, and it becomes a problem for patients across the world. This device can see it in months,

Speaker 1  44:59
many months before it occurs. There was a study done in the Japanese rhythm society where they looked at atrial fibrillation with this device, and when the device was five out of five positive, 93% of the people developed atrial fibrillation within three months, if a person had had an ablation, and the atrial fibrill went away, and then it reappeared the risk potential on this device, as soon as the risk potential went back to five out of five positive. Turns out these patients after the ablation would show up positive in over 90% of the cases in eight months. So it's an amazing tool to see both ventricle fibrillation and atrial fibrillation, and I rather excited about that. For many years. I did a tremendous amount of preoperative clearances. The fact that I had a cardio pulmonary exercise machine, and I had, you know, years of cardiologist trust and different doctors in my area, trust for this device for Cardiovision issues, I did quite a few screens before surgery. But I will tell you, even the best of physicians with the best information we've had before would still have to guess at certain things related to this situation, I will tell you, with the MCG the guesswork goes down substantially. You'll know when these patients have risk, risk of rhythm potentials before you actually put the person to sleep. You would know if they had mitochondrial dysfunction to see if they're going to give you trouble with a four hour surgery or a five hour surgery, you're going to know if their heart has any type of stiffening issues that could prompt some problems within the surgical procedure, and you're going to know if they have any level of ischemia. And it's a rather phenomenal way of clearing a person for surgery. Imagine the lives that can be saved when this machine gets in more and more ers, we've now got this device in the four biggest hospitals in Florida. They recently published a study that showed where the level of acute coronary syndrome averages. That number that I gave you, a 4.6 came out of those four hospitals that was based on the initial 455 patients that they studied. They're finishing an 11,000 patient study now, and we're looking forward to soon seeing the data to see where the average was with that. The good news was, if the score was under four, zero patients out of the 455, had a heart attack. So we're looking to see if that's a safe cut off for doctors across the country in the ER, and we'll know more when we get that 11,000 patient study returned. But suffice it to say, this test is done within a 10 minute time frame. Right now, even in the best of emergency rooms, it takes, on average, about 90 minutes before a patient can be the decision can be made before they're moved to the cath lab. If you could cut that decision from 90 minutes down to 10 minutes, imagine the amount of heart muscle that you can save. This device will tell you, yes or no, they need to go to the cath lab. There's tremendous places where this machine is going to be useful. We've already got prisons using it, because for years, prisoners have called out for chest pain because they knew that was one thing that could get them taken to the hospital. But now that this device is in the prisons, if it doesn't show that they're having an acute MI, they're worked up for other things before they're taken to the ER, functional medicine is going to center around this. There's so much you can do, and if you catch this disease early, the functional medicine does beautifully for most of those 11 disease states that we're going to talk about in just a minute. I have 11 disease state paradigm that ties in with Cardiovision. The Doctor Who controls the inflammation wins, the patient who controls their inflammation wins. Inflammation is at the root cause of plaque formation. Inflammation is at the root cause of the glycocalyx having disturbances is the root cause of patient having ruptured plaque that causes the 66% of heart attacks that are not from occlusive disease, 33% of heart attacks is from a 95% clogged artery that goes to 100

Speaker 1  49:51
with growth or vasospasmstriction. Life Insurance workups are obviously going to benefit from this information. Executive physicals. Imagine the executive that wouldn't want to know this information if I was a concert physician, I can't imagine not using this because it sets you apart, and you've got so much time to spend with your patients. It's going to be an amazing help in that setting. Cardiogram genetic workups, those children that go through and play sports and end up dead on a field can be picked up by this device. I'm going to actually show you one case that I picked up a few years ago in Kentucky athletic physicals picking up the hypertrophic cardiom OXPHOS as they come through geriatric workups. Because I believe this is going to set the stage for people living healthier lives and living longer lives. Primary care physicians are going to benefit across the board with this device. They're going to be able to see the early development of coronary disease, and we won't have to be responding to a 95% blocked artery. Years ago, when I was in the clinic, I would on any given day, have 12 to 15 patients that had 95% occlusive disease. We only had 1.2 heart attacks per year in my clinic, but that's because I knew how to reverse plaque. But we had a large number of patients who came in there hopeless and then suddenly gained hope after they saw their condition improving. This device is going to help us pick up heart failure early. It's going to help us pick up those rhythm disturbance early, those calls that you get unexpectedly, that Miss Jones passed away last night in her sleep, are not going to keep happening, because you're going to know ahead of time before a person gets in that type trouble and fix it before they get to there. Congenital heart defects. This machine has taught me a lot about congenital heart defects, because there's quite a few people running around with congenital heart defects they have no knowledge of this issue. This device is incredibly good at picking up the defects. Some of the defects are not dangerous, and some of them are dangerous. It's nice to have that heads up so that you can do an assessment when the congenital effects pops up on your screen the presurgical clearance. We just talked about the athletic coronary issues and just having a plan of care efficiency with a score. I think that Cardiovision score, year to year, is going to be a deal maker. Cardiologists are going to benefit from this greatly too. Every benefit I just described for the primary care physician the Cardiologists is going to have, but think about how much more precision they're going to have before they actually ask a patient to undergo a heart cath. There's quite a few heart casts that are done unnecessarily, because our present technology sometimes gives us equivocal results. When you get an equivocal result, the natural end result is to go ahead and proceed with the heart catheter in most cases, because you don't want to be wrong. In this particular case, the chances of you being wrong are incredibly small. Decisions about ablations, pacemakers, intracardiac defibrillators, resynchronization, all those things are going to be made better by this device. And of course, Cardiologists do the bulk of preoptic clearances. This device won the American Heart Association science forum Innovation of the Year Award back in 2017 It wasn't even on the market in 2017 but the development has come that far at that time, when you looked at the studies early on, when we were comparing the MCG to the present day technology, just in The area of ischemia, the sensitivity and specificity for the MCG was better than any form of SPECT imaging or nuclear stress testing, and it matched up very well with the information we were getting with coronary Angiography. Angiography suggested we had a 50% occlusion in a certain area of this device would typically show a similar effect in the same area of vessels, and we were getting it with an EKG. There was no use of radiation, there's no use of contrast.

Speaker 1  54:37
The sensitivities have since climbed, because the longer you use artificial intelligence, the smarter it gets. And it really doesn't matter which technology you're looking for, the MCG is going to be superior if you're testing it for accuracy, compared to the nuclear stress testing, the CTAs, the EKG, the stress EKG is the stress echoes. It's going to hang really well with everything. It's going to be better than most everything, and it's going to match real nicely to what you see with a CTA or a heart CADz. The sensitivities and specificities are higher positive predictive value, the negative predictive value is better, and the safety is unmatched, because it's simply an electrocardiogram using artificial intelligence. However, when you compare an McG with these other technologies, it's not fair to compare them, because the MCG tells you so much more than just whether you have ischemia or not and where that ischemia is. So it's not a fair comparison. For those of you that like to read up more of this, take a picture of the screen right now, and that'll give you about 20 of the maybe there's only about 14 on this one. That'll give you some of the peer review studies that are already done with the MCG to date. Okay? Know, I thought we'd look at an mcg. This was a 73 year old female patient. What you see over here is five Ischemia scores, and the that Ischemia score is rather high. In fact, it averages at seven earlier I told you, the average heart attack occurs at 4.6 but not every patient will have a heart attack or acute coronary syndrome with 4.6 some will have it much higher, because they'll get collateral circulation and they'll fare better. This potato patient had successfully done that. This is the same Ischemia scores, and we put it with a category of disease. And when the Ischemia score is greater than seven, we call that a high level of myocardial dysfunction. This patient, looking at the 26 areas that we can see with this device. There we go. These you always start. This is what a report looks like. This is the second page that you see on the left side of the screen. This is the third page that you see on the right side of the screen. I decided to put them on one screen so you could see it side by side. We always start in the area of myocardial damage, because that asked the question, Does this patient have metabolic disease? I put that little picture there. Does it have METABOIC disease? The answer is yes. We have a positive on each test. Now, before I go any further, this bottom line is the first 82 seconds of testing. The second line is the second 82 seconds. The third line is the third and so on fourth and fifth. So this was the initial test, and all five out of five testings on the 82 second segments showed this patient does have active METABOIC disease. And what I mean by that is this is patient has METABOIC disease that creates cardiovascular inflammation. Now we want to know if that inflammation is acute or chronic. The hitting myocarditis has to do with acute disease. And the fact is, this patient is all five negatives under acute disease, myocardial remodeling has to do with chronic disease, five out of five positives. So this patient has no acute disease, but has a rather significant amount of chronic, slow, brewing metabolic disease that creates inflammation. The next thing we want to know is, does the patient have disease in small vessels or large vessels? And so we look into this two categories, where it says decreased myocardial compliance and increased myocardial compliance. If you notice under decreased myocardial compliance, there's everything is negative. But once we look to increase myocardial compliance, we see five out of five positive. And what that means under increased myocardial compliance is that the patient has plaque development that is greater than 30% occlusive. If it was decreased myocardial compliance, it would be less than 30% occlusive. The next thing we want to know is, Does this patient have right sided disease, left sided disease, or both?

Speaker 1  59:27
When we look over here at rheumatic heart disease that's representative of left sided disease, we see two out of five positives. So we know we've got some left sided disease. We have under pulmonary heart disease. That's right sided heart disease. We have a one out of five positive so there's one other place we check, and that's under Global asynchrony. And this patient does have global asynchrony, and the carrot that you see here is pointing at v5 if the carrot points at v5 that means you have left sided disease. If the carrot points, it lead to you've got right side disease. Well, in this case, we're five out of five positive under globalized synchrony pointing at the left sided vessel. So this patient has advanced left sided disease, apparently with collaterals, because the numbers are so high. But nonetheless, despite the collaterals, this patient's in quite a bit of danger, and I'll show Yuyuan just a second. The next thing we want to know is, Does this patient have a congenital heart defect? And the answer is yes, there is a five out of five positivity. Now, just because you have five out of five out of five positivity under congenital heart disease doesn't mean it's a dangerous congenital effect, but it does deserve. The patient does deserve at least an echo Cardiogram with a bubble test to look at the different effects a standard echo Cardiogram does not check for inter ventricle or inter site, atrial Septal defects. But if you there's three different ways of doing it, I prefer the bubble test, but Cardiologists, some do different ones, as long as you do one form of echo Cardiogram that includes a mechanism to see atrial and ventricle Septal defects. That's what this person needs. Now, in my experience, when you see congenital heart defects five out of five positive, and you see five out of five positive under Cardiomyopathy, that raises the ante. The chances of that being a more significant congenital heart defect is certainly present. The fact that this person has lived to 73 years of age, would give you a better idea of what kind of defect it could be, and it would certainly be deserving of looking at. The next thing we want to look at is, does the patient have heart STIFFENING? And I've already told you about the Cardiomyopathy, there's a five out of five positive change under that side of heart, STIFFENING. On the opposite end, you see ventricle Hypertrophy, and it's five out of five negative. There's 11 disease states that can create a Cardiomyopathy shift in a patient's heart STIFFENING. The primary one that contributes to ventricle Hypertrophy is diabetes, and as the diabetes advances, hypertension further aggravates and trigger Hypertrophy. The difference between the two heart STIFFENED is, in the Cardiomyopathy world, there's quite a bit of Septal involvement, so these patients have Septal thickening, and when they have Septal thickening, they're more at risk for cardiac rhythm disturbances when it gets bad. Where I was fixing, to show you, this person's in trouble is you see right under here, five out of five positivity under ventricle fibrillation. So if you put together the scores, you got an average score of seven. You've got global ASYNCHRONY. You've got left sided disease and a five out of five positivity for ventricle fibrillation. This person's in danger. This person needs a heart cath. This person may need a defibrillator if whatever's wrong that led to this cannot be addressed in short order, I mentioned that I created a 11 disease state panel that I teach doctors, and have been teaching ever since the early Well, since 1998 98 in 1998 there were only eight diseases on this model is grown to 11. But when a patient like we just saw that was in so much trouble, you would sit them down in the exam room and you would go one by one with each of these disease states and say, yes, no, does this person have diabetes or pre diabetes? And if they do,

Speaker 1  1:04:07
you denote it, does this person have Dyslipidemia? And by Dyslipidemia, I don't mean elevated cholesterol. I mean elevated small, dense LDL or oxidized LDL, creating a discord with these blood vessels. Yes or no. Does the person have hypertension? Yes or no. Do we meet the criteria for obesity? Yes or no. Do they have sleep disturbances? Or do they have sleep disorders? Yes or No, chronic kidney disease, yes, no, mental health disorders, genetic disorders. It gets real interest in this box right here, because this one 's busy. This include 's autoimmune conditions, yes or no. Inflammatory conditions could be toxin 's could be any number of inflammatory states that aren't autoimmune in nature, could be chronic infection 's like 's 's and the so on. Does this person have a gut Biogenome issue? And lastly, yes or no, mitochondrial dysfunction. Now, once you have identified what they have, and most of the patients with advanced disease will have five or six of these things out of 11, then you will begin to treat each one of them from an inflammatory perspective. The trick of it is, is most doctors don't know where the inflammatory perspective it comes from. For instance, if I were to ask you, where is the inflammation coming from in diabetes, the majority of doctors would say glucose, and that answer 's not correct. Glucose is actually a substrate that we use to make ATP, and is preferred in cells for energy production. It is not a toxin. However, if you look at the source of where the problem, for instance, in type two diabetes, the source triggers from a liver that has a lowered tolerance to carbohydrate 's and every time that diabetic, or pre diabetic, eats more than 25 grams of carbohydrate. 's there 's a switch flipped in the liver, and for another next three to four days, that liver is going to be performing de novo lipogenesis, meaning 's going to make triglyceride laden VHDL, which becomes small, dense LDL, which creates the environment where HDL gets small and diminished and inflammation is activated for the same three to four days in that same liver through the J and k1 system. So if you know the patient has diabetes or pre diabetes, it really doesn't matter which one. They're both very dangerous. They both have that lowered tolerance of carbohydrate. 's a person that has no level of insulin resistance whatsoever, can eat 90 grams of carbs in a four hour period before they flip the same switch. Now interesting note, anybody, whether they're pre diabetic or diabetic or normal, if you eat over 90 grams of carbs, you're going to flip that switch regardless. Now the problem here is we've got three things that flip that switch. We've got carbohydrate 's that turn to glucose that will flip that switch. We have alcohol, which will flip that switch when drank in excess, and that amount that 's considered excess is not a large quantity. One ounce of hard alcohol for a female, two ounces for a man, will flip that same switch. And now we know that high fructose corn syrup flips the exact same switch, because fructose is not tolerated to the degree glucose is. And when you look at the breakdown of fructose within the liver, there is no glycogen storage with fructose. And so the switch is flipped rather quickly when you get into excess. And these patients do real poorly with de novo lipogenesis in the J and k1, system. That's just one of the 11. The deal is, maybe come back for another talk down the road, and we discuss these 11 disease states a little better, or I can actually spend a little bit more time showing you where the inflammation comes from each one, because it's not obvious. If you were to guess, where do you think sleep disturbances and sleep disorders create inflammation? Does anyone have an idea to what the brain? The brain? Well, yeah, it does come from the brain. It's primarily from a brain chemical standpoint.

Speaker 1  1:09:06
Substance inside your brain, there are neurons that are filled with chemicals of various types. You have serotonin and serotonergic nerves and dopamine and dopaminergic nerves and norepinephrine and so on. And these neurons do not fire properly when they are not encapsulated with these chemicals. As you sleep properly and you get into stage three and four sleep, you begin to make these chemicals when you don't spend time in stage three and four sleep, you don't make these chemicals when you go to bed tired and you wake up tired, it's because you were tired at bedtime, because you had depleted your chemicals. You were tired when you woke up because you never made any chemicals, and as a result, your brain had to fire differently. Now your brain doesn't stop firing just because serotonin 's not in the serotonergic nerve, but how it adapts is your adrenal gland will actually start secreting large amounts of circulating adrenaline or epinephrine, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to compensate for this deficiency. So when your neuron is scheduled to fire, you send a signal up. It doesn't fibrill because it lacks serotonin. You send a second signal, a fifth signal, a 10th signal, but about the 15th signal, adrenaline goes to the opposite of the nerve, the post synaptic membrane, and jump starts that nerve. You may wonder why people drink so many energy drinks and caffeine associated drinks when they're in this position, and that's because when you drink that caffeine, it elevate. 's your adrenaline. And when you have that elevator, adrenaline, instead of 15 signals to get one response, now you're down to seven signals with one response. But that very large amount of adrenaline is very hyper inflammatory to your cardiovascular system, and it creates a cascade of issues that get into the blood vessels in the form of inflammation factors. But regardless, each one of these diseases creates an inflammatory insult. And once you identify which of the 11 your patient has and then you identify how to turn it off, you can start helping these patients. Amazingly, this is an integrative medicine group here, and an integrative medicine is perfectly suited to manage these things, so we just have to spend a little bit more time dealing with it. But what I would do in the clinic with a 95% obstructed arteriole, I would figure out, okay, this person has six out of the 11. I would begin treating them from an inflammatory perspective. I would have them exercise aggressively. Exercise is the equalizer. When you exercise 50 minutes aerobically, for each day, you'll remove approximately 93% of the circulating inflammatory factors in your bloodstream. If you don't exercise the next day, though, this inflammation will start coming back. So the trick is, you exercise today, and you remove that the bulk of the inflammation, the 93% and it comes back tomorrow. You exercise again tomorrow, the next day, the next day, the next day. Doctors that do a lot of Cardiovision work exercise their patients six and seven days a week, I encourage mine to do seven days a week, and you'll be amazed at the amount of recovery that your body will do on its own once you set the stage. If you get a person exercising seven days a week, for 50 minutes a day, aerobically, and the exercise they do has to get their heart rate up to their 70% level. So for an older person, that's going to be about 115 beats a minute. For a younger person, 's going to be about 120 beats a minute. So if you get them between 115 120 beats, and that is their average for that duration. In that 50 minutes, you're going to see tremendous amount of inflammation removal. Now, a lot of patients like to walk or do

Speaker 1  1:13:12
golfing and tennis, and those are all good things, but they won't work for cardiovascular I got my patients on machines most of the time, I encourage the elliptical 's highly, because I have a lot of success with elliptical 's. When you get a personal elliptical 's easy on their knees, 's easier on their hips, it has 20 settings or more, so you can advance them and not run out of advances during a long journey. Thus, while you're doing that inflammation removal with the exercise. You're one by one turning off the spigot. You're getting patients that are diabetic eating less than 25 grams of carbs, and you're fixing that. You're getting sleep disorder 's fixed by fixing whatever has got the chemical disturbed. And that's an entire talk of itself. To fix a person with sleep apnea, you can put a CPAP on them, and you'll be right 50% of the time. But that's only one step for a person that has, for instance, MTHFR and needs nitric oxide, and these chemicals produced from the breakdown products of folic acid, if once you recover the folio folic acid breakdown with the right amount of methylfolate, basically, these patients will start making chemicals again, but the CPAP by itself, cannot do it without the substrate. Each of these has a few paradoxes you have to figure out, but they're not rocket science. They're each obtainable. And once you learn how to do this, you'll be actually taking these patients backwards, one right after the other. It's a very rewarding career. This second patient was a physician who at the age of 60, I tested at a medical meeting. He had an average score that 's somewhere in the 1.8 range. This put him in a level B disease state, which is mild. However, when you looked at his plus 's and minuses on the 26 parameters, his mild disease wasn't as mild as we thought you start over here under myocardial damage, he was five out of five positive, which means that he definitely had metabolic disease active in his body. We wanted to know if he had acute or chronic disease from the METABOIC disease state under myocarditis, he was three out of five positive under my Cardiol monitoring, he was five out of five positive. So that means he had both acute and chronic disease states. Once you know whether it's acute or chronic, you start to look at those 11 disease states a little better. I think you could imagine diabetes in a person that ate decently as being something that was chronic. If a person was diabetic and ate poorly, it would be acute and chronic. A person, for instance, with lupus that was active would be rather acute when we had covid go through several years ago, it was in the rather acute setting, and so you could see all sorts of things in here that you could figure out from this disease. Now, this physician, we looked a little further, we want to know if he's got large vessel disease or small vessel disease. He He had large vessel disease. Some of his disease was greater than 30% plaque, and some was less than 30% plaque. But even though he was only a mild disease category in Category B, that 's at least noteworthy. We now want to know if his left sided disease or right sided disease, and he 's five out of five positive under rheumatic heart disease, so it's primarily left sided disease, which is the bad kind. The other plus was one plus out of five under pulmonary heart disease, which is right sided disease. Does this patient have a congenital heart defect? And the answer is, possibly there's a one out of five positivity there. I usually don't get too excited about one out of five positive, but I do just denote it and move from there. Does this patient have heart STIFFENING? The answer is absolutely yes. A three out of five positive under Cardiomyopathy, a three out of four out of five positive under ventricle Hypertrophy. The fact he's got ventricle Hypertrophy tells me that he has pre diabetes or diabetes, one or the other. And this one here is more complicated with the Cardiomyopathy. Now we want to know, Does this patient have mitochondrial dysfunction or not? And here's where it gets interesting. You see four out of five positive under decreased ejection fraction, and you'll see five out of five positive under

Speaker 1  1:18:08
acute power failure. So this patient is a nine out of 10 positivity for mitochondrial dyssynchrony. Lastly, Does this patient have a rhythm disturbance problem? And the answer is yes, three out of five positivity for atrial fibrillation. Now this patient gets retested at another meeting little over a year later. This was the original results. This is the results on the second test. You see, our numbers went down significantly, 1.5 to one, 2.0 to 0.5, now we got three zero 's. So the average score on the first test was 1.7 the average score on the second test was 0.3 when we start to look to see the changes, we can see the changes were substantial. Yes, this patient showed the same level of metabolic disease, but there's only two positive under myocarditis, only three positive under myocardial remodeling, the acuteness and chronicity of it didn't look as severe when we look at the plaque that we saw under increase and decrease myocardial compliance, the levels went from five to one and the amount of plaque was decreasing. This person was reversing plaque, and that's wonderful. And we want to know if this patient 's Congestive heart defect showed anything this time and it didn't. It was a one out of five last time. 's a zero. So that confirmed my suspicion. 's it probably either wasn't real or wasn't important. Remember, the patient 's heart STIFFENING had a three out of five positivity under Cardiomyopathy and a four out of five positive under ventricle Hypertrophy. We've now gone from three to zero under Cardiomyopathy, so the heart STIFFENING has stopped on the Cardiomyopathy pathway, and it has lessened from four to two on the ventricle Hypertrophy pathway, which is quite encouraging. Remember, we talked about mitochondrial dysfunction, how dangerous it was. And this patient had a nine out of I think I put 10 here, but it was a nine. Now only has one on this category under decreased ejection fraction has one under this one. So this patient went from nine to two. Lastly, did the atrial fibrillation get worse or better? And the answer is, it got some better. It went from three to two in a year 's time, and this was with absolutely no follow up, other than seeing this person from one meeting to the next. The third patient, this is the last patient. This is a child. She 's 13 years old. She passed out at a syncopal spell on the soccer field. The coach describes her 's being relatively unconscious for about one minute. It scared 'em to death. She came back. They stabilized her on the field, and then sent her to a doctor to get approval to come back and play. She was not going to be able to play without that doctor approval, her doctor, her primary care physician, looked at her, and after talking with her and examining her, he decided that she was okay to go back and play. As soon as his hand hit the doorknob, he stopped, and he paused. He says, Before I actually write this note to let your daughter go back and play, because the parents were in the room too. He says, I'm going to send her to a cardiologist and get one more look. So she went to an adult cardiologist, and the adult cardiologist looked at the 13 year old examiner, did an EKG, just like the primary care doctor, and even that was all he did. And long story short, he had told her she was released to go back to soccer practice. The parents, the father was aware of the MCGID and found me and asked to get this test done before his daughter went back to play soccer for school program. Long story short, this is the MCGID that we saw now, if you notice on the side, you got two three 's and three zero 's. So her scores already got my attention, because 13 year olds don't have scores. 13 year olds should be zero 's across the board,

Speaker 1  1:22:42
when you go to the 26 things about the heart, we look to see if she has METABOIC disease, and the answer is yes, five out of five positive. Two out of five positive under Myocarditis, one out of five positive under Myocarditis modeling, which means she has a little bit more acute inflammation than she does chronic. She has no blockage in her large vessel 's, which you would expect. But here 's where it gets more interesting. She has a three out of five positive under congenital heart defect, and she has a four out of five positive under Cardiomyopathy. When you see those two things together, you start to pause, and especially in a 13 year old who's just recently passed out on a soccer field, this is how you're going to catch a hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy. Quite commonly, there was no Hypertrophy under ventricle Hypertrophy because, remember, that's related to diabetes type two, but a four out of five positive under Cardiomyopathy. Now, when we look under, does the patient have my mitochondrial dysfunction? She has one out of five on the under acute power failure. She has zero out of five under a decreased ejection fraction, so she's one out of 10. Lastly, we look under rhythm disturbance potential, and she 's two out of five positive under atrial fibrillation. She 's one out of five positive under ventricle fibrillation. That right there ended the discussion we I had the parents take her to a pediatric Cardiologists who specialized in congenital heart defects, and lo and behold, some things were seen. This patient went to the PEC cardiologist. He did an echo, Cardiogram, an EKG and an MRI. In the long story short, she was diagnosed with an ARRHYTHMIA Cardiomyopathy a year later, after this checkup took place, her rhythm disturbance had worsened substantially, and she got a ventricular defibrillators. She got intracardiac defibrillator placed at for age 14. If this child would have been released to go back to play ball, she most certainly would have had a catastrophic event on that field. In summary, there's no better way to detect each of these things that I'm about to mention, early and late coronary disease, no better way than MCGID than to detect these small vessel coronary disease. In fact, it's probably the only way you're going to see small vessel coronary disease in America, heart STIFFENING leading to heart failure, seeing acute and chronic metabolic disease and how to deal with that global ASYNCHRONY when one side of the heart contracts before the other that takes away from your cardiac ejection fraction, and it takes away from the efficiency of the heart congenital effects. This thing picks them up left and right. And I'm, I'm telling you probably about 35 to 45% 35 to 40% of patients have congenital effects that I've screened, and that's, I'm in the 1000 's, mitochondrial dysfunction, rhythm disturbances, and one of my favorites is this yearly cardiovascular disease state score. I think patients are going to look at that number and take their score serious. They're not going to like it when their score goes from 1.8 to 2.5 they're going to want it to go back down. They're going to want a zero, and this gives you something to use as a driving factor to get these patients to safety. Artificial Intelligence is here to stay. It's going to have good uses and bad uses. This is absolutely an incredibly good use that 's come to medicine. Okay, I've I've talked a lot, open up the floor to questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:46
You said that there's four hospitals in Florida

Speaker 1  1:26:49
that have this. The four largest hospitals in Florida had this device in their

Speaker 5  1:26:55
er, Florida Hospital, pardon, Florida Hospital, which hospital in Orlando?

Unknown Speaker  1:27:06
Which one 's the biggest general

Unknown Speaker  1:27:11
you have? Shanghai's, MIBI.

Speaker 1  1:27:14
Shanghai's has it in Jacksonville. That's where I'm from. The 's store. Started out in a prison over there, and there's a prison hospital in Tallahassee, and there's a connection to it, to this chance in Jacksonville. And they saw how well it worked. They moved it down to their er and started using it, and then they opened up a study with it, and then the hospital in Orlando got it, and then the hospital in Miami got it. And anyway,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:52
so what? What does a device like this?

Speaker 1  1:27:56
Cost this device is in the neighborhood of $60,000 most doctors charge between four and $500 a test. Insurance presently doesn't cover it because it's such a new device, but it most certainly will in the days to come. We're a small group with a small amount of funding right now. So we've had limited success. There's only 250 of these machines in the United States. There's probably another 250 in Japan. It's in 16 different countries on five different continents. It's, it's starting to get teaching throughout we we introduced it to England last year, last summer, the the device is fixing to be bought out by two fairly wealthy billionaires, and they have good intentions of This and several other things to help lessen health burden. 's chronic disease burden 's been horrible in the United States. There 's going to be some massively big changes from this company that these two billionaires are creating. You will

Speaker 7  1:29:14
better wait before or after I sell it to try to find advice.

Speaker 1  1:29:19
Well, my gut instinct is cheaper now than it will be once they right.

Speaker 7  1:29:23
So, and I'm sorry for interjecting, I'm just so excited. So because this is crazy to me, I practice in regenerative esthetics and precision medicine, and people spend $200,000 on a hair laser Absolutely, it's sickening to think, Oh, my star 's people will spend this much on a hair laser removal system, but not a heart. So how do we follow up with this? Will you give us information, how to get the device, or how to look into race capital? I mean, we can write about that part, but I mean, how to get the device?

Speaker 1  1:29:51
Why don't you reach out to me, and I will reach out to her. Name is Amy spy Hicks, and you said, Are you the one from Jacksonville? Amy 's in Jacksonville, and so it would be easy to hook her up to you and your office, but there are two ways you can do this. You can buy a machine, or some doctors, initially, just schedule 10 to 20 patients a day and have her come in with she 's got several nurses that go across the country and we just do MCGID days. What's her last name again?

Unknown Speaker  1:30:25
Amy spahi, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:30:30
The okay, I, I'm not into the sales of this, but the long stretch, I can get you two together if you'll email me. It's Sam, yes, sir. 's a m dot filling gain, F, I L, L, I N, G, A, N, E, my name 's on the screen, yes, Sam, dot filling gain@gmail.com I will connect you with Amy, and she can work out whatever way works best for you. But some doctors prefer to buy the machine. Some doctors prefer to utilize the group coming in and doing the screens in your office for you. Then once you do enough of them, you get excited about them, and then you're probably going to buy one eventually. Thank you. You got used to it. I personally believe in 15 years, there won't be a medical clinic in the United States that doesn't have one of these there will certainly be no hospitals that have probably in five years, but certainly no more than 10 years. Once this device gets known about, it is so much more capable in almost every realm, it's going to be hard to stop it. The deal with us. We just didn't have enough people to market it and get past the coding issues and get a proper code that would allow us to get insurance. Remember, it cost approximately $3 million to get that code, and we're not that big yet, but these billionaires are

Bill Clearfield  1:32:04
question Where, where is it manufactured

Speaker 1  1:32:09
that I don't know. I know the doctor in New York developed it is manufactured in the United States. He for a while there was manufacturing some in Japan, but he's moved it back to United States,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:23
someone asked, if you still see patients, and if so, what office

Speaker 1  1:32:28
I saw patients for 34 years, and then my wife got sick, and I had to stop practicing. That 's what landed me into the medical school environment. I had to work something that allowed me to make a living but still able to take care of her. She passed away five years ago, but I was I stayed at the medical school regardless, so I don't have an active clinical practice now, but I teach an awful lot. I have been if you looked at my resume, you would think I'm crazy, because I for a better part of 25 years, I've been going across the country in two cities a week, and I am passionate about seeing this get better. We were making some progress for a season, and then when my wife got sick, I fell off the mountain. Some other things happened, and now we're we're licking our chops and picking back up. But everything that I do to reverse plaque any one of you could do, it's just a matter of learning it. And I have somewhere between eight and 10,000 success stories that were 95% blocked, that now have no blockage. And my patients didn't need stents, because once we got hold of 'em, if I could keep 'em stable for six months, they never needed a stent. And so stints are things that they're nice for that quick acute coronary syndrome, but they're probably something we could get past if we just learned how to treat people medically more aggressively. If you're shooting for a target on this side of the room and the real target 's on this side room, you're never gonna hit the real target. And for years, doctors have been shooting at cholesterol and hypertension and they've been shooting at diabetes, but they just been directing their attention the wrong direction. It wasn't until 2017 we could talk the diabetic Association into lowering carbs in their diet. There was a, if you remember, back before 2017 there was a 60% carb content in a diabetic diet from the ADA. They did change that after the pure trial that came out in 2017 but you know, doctors that have done a lot of this, if there's there were 35 studies that showed a reduction in cardiovascular disease with the reduction in carbs. It was, it was pretty clear. So there's so much that we've still got to advance, but I want you to each learn this, and I want to become a part of this integrative society. And then you can, once you learn it, you can teach other doctors, and before you know this is going to get better, I know that since I've gotten to medical school, I've had these students captive audience for two years. It's a whole lot easier to teach students that I have for two years than it is to teach a group of doctors that I just get for an hour here and an hour there, but I will still try every as we knew that we could do. I want you to learn this.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:32
Thank you. Thank you for being with us. Um, there's a question, are there any downside? 's false positives?

Speaker 1  1:35:41
Not really. The it seems interesting. I've been working with 's machine for 's now I work closely with the inventor the every time we see a question mark, where someone we see something clinically and it doesn't quite match up with the device. When we investigate a little further, the device makes sense. That's not to say that I won't eventually see one that doesn't but, you know, we've probably have had a half dozen that ended up looking worse than they were when they really weren't as bad. And then you you see some collateral circulation issues that explain things. And it's it's incredibly sensitive, and I've watched it. The sensitivity 's used to be about 84 and 86% back in the 19, oh no, in about 2010 they're now over to 93 and 94% the specificity and sensitivity, the numbers are just getting better, and 's because we're testing more and more people and the AI 's getting smarter. I would love to do some validation studies in areas like mitochondrial dyssynchrony. I would love to look at this Cardiomyopathy a lot closer and look at groups that had access to this machine versus groups that didn't, and look at outcomes of patients. I would love to tackle the ventricle Hypertrophy and the diabetes issue, and look at the goals, because when you control inflammation with diabetes, ventricle Hypertrophy goes away, it stops which means you stop the progression disease, and this person never gets heart failure from that mechanism. There's the calcium scanner that you talked about earlier. I remember in the early days where it was not well received, because it was so much that we didn't know it had 10 or 10 like us. And then they got well known, and they had lots of studies, and now they're all over the place. I think that's what's going to happen.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:47
That's that's one of the questions in the chat. What would be the key thing you could say to the naysayer cardiologist internal medicine people that hesitant to embrace this as the future?

Speaker 1  1:37:57
Well, everybody that gets one of these devices, I give them a document to send with the report when you send it to the cardiologist. So the cardio doctor will not only see what this is, he can see how to validate it, but the one thing I've learned about Cardiologists, even though they'll question what you've got here, there's not likely to ignore the information. Imagine if I tell you a cardiologist that this is showing advanced left sided disease, and you ignore that based on something you did, like a stress echo, and then this heart attack that that would be.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:38
Those of us in the hormone world have been, you know, hollering about it 's estrogen for 20 years, and finally, somebody listens.

Speaker 1  1:38:47
Heart doctors are scared to the fact they don't know but it's got aI related to it 's EKG there, they've been pretty receptive to at least consider the information. But what I keep hearing over and over is, I'd like to have more validation studies? Well, to get more validation studies, we got to have more doctors that have machines, and more doctors that have interest in doing research. And I believe that 's coming, and we've needed fairly wealthy investors that could market this correctly. And I think we're, we're within months of possibly achieving that.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:22
Dr Nario, do you have any questions online?

Speaker 3  1:39:26
Yeah, so great presentation. Dr Blinken, one of the things here so we could see in the cardiovascular world, AI 's being utilized. I don't know if you're clearly the CTA machine they're using that already also, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:41
I'm very familiar with that, alright.

Speaker 3  1:39:43
And then, from the looks of this, as you went through the cases here, there are specific ways in how to interpret the results. So you actually, I think you've trained so many through your eyes, have trained so many patients results through this is that something that would be aI generated for somebody who bought the machine and wants to see the results, or the results are still something that a clinician needs to study to get an interpretation from you're not,

Speaker 1  1:40:15
we're not at the point where the artificial intelligence is going to practice medicine for you. But what I would like to do is people that utilize this machine, I teach them first how to interpret this device, and then the journey starts on how to help that patient. Once you know What 's wrong, it 's one thing to know that you 've got mitochondrial dysfunction and you 've got Cardiomyopathy and you got ventricle Hypertrophy and you got some plaque. It 's another thing to know how to treat it successfully. When you start seeing each of these numbers getting better and the pluses go into negatives, and your patient outright tells you they feel better, that's a rewarding career, and it's very doable. And so right now the numbers are small enough I've been able to personally teach everybody that gets one of these devices. I'm sure when the numbers get bigger, that may be more complicated, but then I will teach other doctors how to teach what I do too. Fortunately, I've got some medical students that are becoming doctors down the road, that they may step up by the time we get there.

Speaker 3  1:41:23
Yeah, I'm sure this technology will expound. It has so much room to to grow, and it's you're probably still in the early stages of this, especially as you mentioned, technology can definitely spice everything up nowadays.

Speaker 1  1:41:38
So we're at the stage. Yeah, but what, once this takes off, it's going to be like an avalanche.

Speaker 3  1:41:46
I'm sure, I'm sure there's so much potential for this specific preparation. 's for, for the MCGID, any, any thing that you're particular about because, of course, a regular EKG, of course, no caffeine, right? What about

Speaker 1  1:42:02
this one? No, no, no. If you ask my drillers, I would prefer they didn't have caffeine for four hours prior to the testing. But even if they did have it, I'd still test them. You can't run the device next to 's an area of high electrical impact. So if, like, if you had an electrical grid on the wall, and you tried to do it in the same room, you'd probably have trouble. We've gone to convention centers where they have electrical 's right in the wall next to where we are. We've had to move to a different section so we could get accurate readouts, because it will affect your readout to a degree. That's if you noticed on the report the it tells you the quality right here, marginal versus good. And then we have to, if it says marginal, we have to actually find out why it was marginal. This one said Good, good, marginal, marginal, good. Most of the times 's margins are, is not terrible, but if it says poor, you can't accept the reading. You have to do it over again. And so it can be done in just about anybody, though, the only people I struggle with is people with pacemakers. It pacemakers mess up the reading. And so, short of the pacemakers, you can do anybody. You can do children. You can do newborn babies. You can do old adults. You can do pregnant patients, right?

Speaker 3  1:43:30
I'm thinking about so. Dr Bill mentioned about hormones. So majority of cardiovascular incipients, which are showing as a typical in terms of symptoms, of course, are women, so especially when menopause is there, and also they are the ones who manifest, mostly the Microvascular diseases. So really, when you're talking about how to detect the hard to detect cases, I think this is where your machine really kind of comes into the fold. One curious question about so when you showed your cases, so you were basing your intervention 's on the finding of the MCGID,

Unknown Speaker  1:44:08
absolutely, if, let's

Speaker 3  1:44:11
say, like for the example, of you ended up doing the cardiac MRI on that, on that pediatric patient. How would insurance respond to an McG finding in relation to covering or paying for the other subsequent tests that you just mentioned if, if you're saying that McG is not covered by insurance,

Speaker 1  1:44:33
well, now, if MCGID sees a congenital heart defect, it's pretty easy to get an echo Cardiogram approved, which is the next level. That was a cardiac specialist in a pediatric cardiac specialist who would have less trouble getting a pediatric MRI of the heart. But I've had nobody have difficulty getting the echocardiogram based on the MCGID. The problem is that I have trouble getting the MCGID reimbursed by insurance. Now, there are some non specific codes you can use. I am leery of non specific codes because they can come back and haunt you one day, we need a specific code for a multifunctional Cardiogram, and I believe we'll have it after we have the $3 million necessary to basically pay a person to work through the organization 's and get our approval, without these people, you just can't get approval. And it's sad, but it's true.

Speaker 3  1:45:38
Okay, well, again, it's a great device. Hopefully this is something that's going to push through, and I'm sure it's going to be big. Dr Patel, you have a question. Sorry, I thought I have a question. What is the cost for the machine?

Speaker 1  1:45:54
About $60,000 and I don't sell the machines, but that's what I've heard from Amy, and I believe I'm telling you correctly,

Speaker 8  1:46:06
does a left bundle branch block affect the the tracing or the information? Since left bundle branch block pretty much negate 's any EKG for normal Cardiologists.

Speaker 1  1:46:22
Well, I mean, think about it, you you get about a third, you get about 3% of this information on a regular EKG, so they're not even But to answer your question, no, the left bundle branch block is not a,

Speaker 8  1:46:36
Oh, that's wonderful. That is, that's your device. Sound 's like a total game changer. Finally, and the 's EKG business is really in the dark prevention.

Speaker 1  1:46:51
When you can change element away, all you had was frequency. And once you're looking at the different frequencies, there's a bar graph that goes with each frequency. Hey, Buddy nation, and we've had access to this all these years. We just never, no one ever decided to do it once artificial intelligence came in play. That's the only, probably the way you broke the information to where we could use it.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:14
Well. Thank you so much. What a blessing.

Speaker 1  1:47:17
Good. You mentioned small vessels. 's in women. I don't know if y'all totally understand how that works. It took me a long time to figure out small vessel disease, but women and men that get small vessel 's get very advanced disease, and it's always diffuse. You don't ever have small vessel. 's easy. It just goes off the right coronary of the liver. It's everywhere. And 's these vessels. They go straight into the muscle, and there, there's hundreds of them, and they get occluded. But what happens is, the patient gets this extreme level of fatigue, worse than anything that any of your other fatigue patients compile. It's it's such an exhaustive fatigue these patients, no matter how motivated they were in the past, they have to stop. So they'll walk to the first aisle of the grocery store and they'll stop, but with, long story short, they'll end up getting a hard cat, because they also have some dyspnea and exertion with that extreme fatigue. And they're historically, were patted on the back and said, Honey, I don't know what's wrong with you, but it's not your heart. And on average, six months later, they would show up in the ER with acute coronary syndrome, but they wouldn't show up most of the time with acute coronary syndrome with small vessel issues, they came in with acute coronary syndrome from large vessels. So what that means is they went from 0% to 100% large vessel occlusion in six months time, which is incredibly hard to catch the patient, plus they've already had a heart catheter, been told they're okay, so 's their symptomatology got worse. Nobody responded to it because they had recently had a major test in 2007 circulation. Published this data, and they finished the study in 2011 but we've learned a lot about small vessel disease, but when it happens, this conversion factor. 's quick. Now you know the Takamoto 's signal to you you've got extreme stress, and yes, you'll have small vessel disease, heart attacks, usually affecting the left ventricle. But this is different. These people convert from small to large incredibly quick, and 's bothersome. We've been needing a machine that would see who these people are. And not only does the machine see who they are, it scores 'em. So if your treatment 's working, their score gets better. If your treatment 's not working, their score get 's worse, which means you can reconfigure until you figure out what needed to be done, and you could actually test this person in three months, six months, nine months. It's not so expensive that it's cost prohibitive. You could do five of these for the cost of one CAT scan. So if you think about it, if you needed to check if you had a person with two or three out of five ventricle fibrillation, you could check them again in a month or two and make sure it's not worsening. Get a defibrillator in them before they got in trouble, and if your treatment was working, their numbers will get better. Their pluses will go to negative 's. It offers so much potential for you in the clinician place to help these people in ways we've never been able to do.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:32
Any other questions from online. Dr Nario, oh,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:35
that's it. That's it. That was awesome, Doctor.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:38
One more question here about any like Myocarditis issues from the you know, the vaccine 's of any, anything your device picks up,

Speaker 1  1:50:49
it shows up under Myocarditis. It'll be the acute form of inflammation. But the nice is, once you start treating these patients, if your treatment is clearly working, you'll see that acute inflammation clearing up. So the the five pluses will go to three pluses to go to one plus and go to zero. So in my experience, a lot of those patients had mast cell issues, and when you got their mast cell issues settled down, which is perfectly y'all are strong at in the integrative world, you probably do more with mast cell activation syndrome than anyone in the mainstream. But these patients that I treated quite a few of them, and once I treated their mast cell activation syndrome in in probably 90% of the cases they they started converting

Unknown Speaker  1:51:46
the mass muscle activation.

Speaker 1  1:51:49
Pardon, the mass activation syndrome is is basically where mast cells clump together in areas of exposure. It's in the area of skin. 's in the lining of your sinuses, it's in the lining of your intestinal tract, it's in the lining of your bladder, it's in your vagina. And these patients typically have multi system disease. They might have sinus conditions, along with lots of reflux. 's real common to cause reflux. Sometimes it causes what we call irritable bowel syndrome, where they have constipation and diarrhea and occasionally asthma and mast cells are loners. It's the first line of defense in your immune system. And when patients have clumping of these mast cells that are hypersensitive, then you become having what's called mast cell activation syndrome. It was only first characterized in 15 years ago, so it's a disease state that is harder to diagnose when you get specifically in the lab, but it's easy to diagnose clinically, interstitial cystitis is mast cell activation syndrome. You know, so many questions answered by this disease, but people that had covid, it turns out that 17% of the population have mast cell activation syndrome. And the long covid syndrome 's were a trigger of this disease, because when the covid got through and was becoming destructive in these vascular programs. It was triggering these mast cells. And mast cells have an explosive property of releasing these incredibly strong chemicals with over 1400 issues of inflammatory factors built within these different neuro chemicals and created quite the serious problem. In fact, people that have anaphylaxis are usually mast cell activation syndrome patients, simply because these clumped mast cells, they trigger incredibly strong reactions very quickly. But yes, you asked about covid, we saw it on the acute inflammation screen. We could then address it. It wasn't just mass cell activation, but in my experience, it was pretty heavy mast cell activation syndrome and long covid.

Speaker 5  1:54:18
And for long covid, do you have any protocol for long covid?

Speaker 1  1:54:23
Yeah, I really like that FLCC that put out the protocol. But I there were three things that I did that got people started. And you use an h1 block or an h2 blocker and a mass cell stabilizer. You know, quercetin 's over the counter. 's pretty decent mast cell stabilizer. You have to use about 1000 milligrams of it two to three times a day, an Allegra, a Zyrtec, or a Claritin, CLARIN x1, of those less sedating h2 block h2 and then you just get, I'm sorry, h1 blocker. And then you did the h2 with like Pepcid AC twice a day. And once you do that, they settle down pretty nicely. And since there's over 1400 chemicals that come out of these mast cells, then you can get more specific once you start figuring out what the chemical 's doing to them, but you always start with the h1 h2, and a quercetin.

Speaker 5  1:55:28
And quercetin, you can use 3000 a day. Yes, it's not affecting the kidney function.

Speaker 1  1:55:34
I usually started out twice a day and moved it up to three times a day if I needed it.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:40
Yeah, and for how long, three

Speaker 1  1:55:43
months, they usually take it three to six months, and then they come off it. The part of the problem with that was, is that any stressor of a big nature will cause mast cell activation to stay persistent. So if, for instance, someone 's went through a death of a family member, or they had a business venture fail, or some major catastrophe, a child died. When the stress is real high, you can't stop it, so you just have to keep them on a year round basis. But for most people, three to six months, they can take it and come off it and then come back on it when the next stressor comes

Speaker 5  1:56:23
and undergrad, 108 180 milligrams once a day. Wow, amazing. Yeah. I for the peptides. What do you think? Because 's 31 mod c, KBC, tymosine.

Speaker 1  1:56:41
You guys know way more about that than I do. I have heard good things about the use of peptides, but I have no experience.

Speaker 5  1:56:53
Personally, we had a lecture about heart diseases and peptides, and we discussed that, and there it's a medication amaleksan OXPHOS, that clears the arteries completely, removes everything from the arteries, and it's very cheap. 's a day. I'm alexanoxon. Oxon ox Yeah. Amyloxanax, hi, one of Dr

Bill Clearfield  1:57:20
holos 's favorites.

Speaker 1  1:57:22
So I would love to read up on it, because it sounds interesting. And you know, we're talked about drugs that help with the glyco CADz, and we were there's drugs that help with nitric oxide, and there's lots of ways to approach this, to buy you some time and make some problems, but you're really not going to fix the problem till you control the inflammation. So even if you had a drug that bought you some time, you still better turn off that tap.

Speaker 5  1:57:49
And how about curcumin and vaswala? It's very powerful. The kuramed, it can be given few grams a day, or

Speaker 1  1:58:00
cold, kissing, colchising, okay, I've seen studies suggest 's useless. I will tell you, in the eight to 10,000 patients, I've reversed, I never used it, but there 's 10 Ways To scan a cat. There 's probably 10 Ways To fix this problem. But what I do know is, whatever you do, whatever direction you go, you have to control the inflammation. And that inflammation gets in a blood vessel and it secretes a chemical, and 's that chemokin, that chemical that pulls the fat in the to the blood vessel. When you have inflammation that hangs around too long, it will create an unstable plaque. Eventually, if that plaque becomes too unstable, you'll have a eruption, which leads to a vascular complication. When you have inflammation under control, plaque never is unstable. So all the patients that are at risk for plaque rupture, that goes away, that eliminate 's a lot of strokes. It eliminates a lot of heart attacks. Nitric oxide is a huge player in the stroke region, so anything you do to make nitric oxide better, I'm I'm a big believer in treating MTHFR and use of a fairly high dose methylfolate to reverse that process. I used to have patients that would come into my office. They couldn't walk up six stairs without angina. One side.

Speaker 4  1:59:32
I don't know how to run the fucking Gerber. Yeah, just quickly, what are some of your other favorite cardiovascular treatment modalities?

Speaker 1  1:59:47
Okay, well, I was talking about the MTHFR treatment, that when I would have a 95% obstructed patient come to see me and they couldn't get up the steps without taking nitroglycerin, I basically, I would pray to God, they'd have mthfffrefus. If they did, we'd put them on the right dose of methylfolate. Within two weeks, they start making, you know, truckloads of nitric oxide. And then that 95% of perceived occlusion becomes a 50% of perceived occlusion because the vasodilation takes place. There's drugs like vascox that use nitrates and nitrites to help you get through the nitrates through the other pathway, which helps with nitric oxide. Any way you do it. That's going to help with your Cerebrovascular disease, because your stroke patients don't do well that don't have nitric oxide. Everything you do has to concentrate around pro friendly nitric oxide and Yuyuan. Ways of doing that, I'll encourage you to do this. I spoke at a lot of different integrative society meetings, and I particularly appreciate the way you approach a lot of disease now.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:00
No, I consider myself a hybrid. I got mainstream and functional in my blood.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:15
Yeah, a lot of us tried that didn't work out so good. So the mainstream didn't want us so well.

Speaker 1  2:01:26
Somehow they hadn't got rid of me yet. But I think that's because I did things that they couldn't do. That is thank you. I used to have the, you know, the biggest compliment when a heart doctor sends you his mother and father to be your patient. I had a lot of Cardiologists, family members as my patients and But literally, we had patients came from all over the country with high level disease, and one by one, they would get better. And it was exciting, but it started with understanding the disease at a different level. You've got to understand this. It originates with inflammation, and until you control that inflammation, you will not beat this disease. You can slow it down, but you can't beat it. Once you learn how to control it, you will beat it. Your body has the ability to reverse plaque if you just set the stage proper.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:19
Yeah, we, you know, you and I are, look like we're about this from the same era there, and they didn't talk about inflammation back in that back in those days, did they?

Speaker 1  2:02:27
No, I was a renegade. But now, back in the 1996 1990 I started getting calls from Cardiologists, just one after another with a patient that had higher levels of plaque, and seemed to be reversing. And about time I got the 40th or 50th call. I knew I was on some by 1998 I was teaching it. And so, yes, I thought different than the heart doctors, but they you just

Bill Clearfield  2:02:58
couldn't, can you? Can you before we leave, give us your top five anti inflammatory intervention.

Speaker 1  2:03:06
's well, by far, diabetes is the number one. So getting a patient on a low carb diet, emphasizing no more than 25 grams of carbs every five hours, every four hours, and I encouraged intermittent fasting. The large number of patients have sleep disturbance. 's sleep disturbances, we could spend a whole night talking on just sleep itself. There 's a large number of people that have obstructive sleep apnea, and just knowing how to recognize those patients helps, because without recognizing you won't get them better. But the problem is, is, when you put a CPAP on the ones that do have sleep apnea, if they also have MTHFR, and you don't fix it correctly, you're going to they're still not going to feel any better because you're not going to make brain chemicals. Sleep is kind of like a baking a cake. You got to have substrate and you got to have an oven. So if I took away your flour and your eggs and your sweetener, you're not going to make the cake because you didn't have the ingredients to make the cake. But if I took the oven away that you cooked it in, you're still not going to make the cake. Well, the sleep is like the oven. The ingredients of the cake are like the things going into the chemical production. The biggest chemical production issue of deficiency is the breakdown of folic acid to methylfolate. And I was working as a Director of Medical Education of the large card, largest cardiovascular lab in the country, years ago. And we had 98 PhD 's, and we spent a good bit of time working on MTHFR. It came out in 2005 they started feeding us information on it. About 2009 we were looking at how to treat methylfolate tagged in this condition it and it wasn't working. And then back in 2011 there was a group of psychiatrists in Europe that were using this rather large dose of methylfolate, which we were taught, if you if you trained in America, you were taught that 's toxic. Well, I guess these European doctors didn't get taught that, and they used this higher dose, and it worked. And not only it worked, it the safety profile was rather significant. They used a dose of 7.5 milligrams in one group and 15 milligrams in another group, and it turns out that the group was 7.5 milligrams of metabolic got no benefit whatsoever, but 15 milligrams did rather well, and they started responding in eight weeks if you had a 677 mutation. Well, that got our attention, and we looked at the safety profile and decided we were going to repeat the study ourself, and we did, and there was another group in the United States that repeated it. So now we had three studies that showed the same thing. When you use that 15 milligram dose for a 677, mutation, once a day, they would improve rather remarkably, at 18 weeks, but they would continue improving till the 18 month, and their chemicals in their brain would get better, their nitric oxide responded within two weeks. This 1298 's didn't respond to the 15 milligram dose. And then there was this doctor in Austin, Texas that was a psychiatrist, and he wasn't really familiar with the toxicity issues that we were concerned with, and he used a much higher dose to initiate studies for the 1298, and he used 15 milligram dose, three pills a day for three months, and then he backed them down to one a day. And it turned out, we looked at his safety data, his safety data was about the same as placebo. It was shockingly safe. We repeated the study in a fairly large format, and got the same results he did on a small format and never published that study. But the long story short, you got to treat like in the sleep world. You got to treat the substrate, the things that go into making serotonin. You got to fix them and methylfolate 's The biggest issue. The same thing for norepinephrine, dopamine, melatonin, but methylfolate is the key there. And one of the things I've watched in my integrative doctor friends, they use too low a dose of methylfolate. And if you use the lower dose, you might get some nitric oxide out of the deal, but you're not going to get brain chemicals. You got to go up to that 15 milligram dose and even triplet for three months, if you got a 1298, patient

Speaker 1  2:07:45
chronic kidney disease is quite often Doctor induced. These patients that are on high doses of Lasix, hydrochlorothiazide, diuretics, it's because the doctor 's not respecting the fact that they've got aldosterone issues in the system, and if you can work them off of those diuretics and then get aldosterone in the system, you're you're going to at least stop it from progressing. Unfortunately, most of the damage is permanent. Sometimes you're lucky enough to catch them quick, more times than not when a doctor 's starting a diuretic for a patient in heart failure, if they would simultaneously start Spironolactone or a similar aldosterone blocker, within three or four weeks, they can take 'em off the diuretic and just leave the spironolactone, because it's the aldosterone blockade is these patients. Doesn't matter what dose of diuretic you use, aldosterone is going to outdo it in about six months. One of the things I teach the medical students is if. will breathe better for six months. But at six months, the aldosterone will outdo your Lasix, and you're going to see the swelling come back and the Dyspnea on exertion return. At that point, your tendency is to take the dose up to 40 milligrams of Lasix, and again, for six months, they'll do better, only to return had they just done the aldosterone blockade to start with, you might not have needed the lasix at all, but if you did, you would only need a very small dose. So being careful with diuretics, the autoimmune issues if you would get the mitochondrial function improved, you can get autoimmune disease states in remission. There's so much Hashimoto 's and other things out there that aren't responding to treatment. If, if y'all saw the hundreds and hundreds of patients I received referrals from rheumatologists for with autoimmune illnesses that weren't responding to anything they gave them. I had this one girl that was 35 years old from Houston, Texas. I'm in Mississippi, Jackson, Mississippi, and she flew in, and sure enough, she had lupus and rheumatoid arthritis that she had been on nine different medicines for and two experimental medicines, none of them worked, and as soon as I identified where her inflammation came from and turned it off, the medicine that she was on at the time just started working. But that's kind of the way it works. With any of these rheumatological patients, they don't get out of trouble to control their inflammation, quite oftentimes it's tied in with their Mito chondrial dyssynchrony.

Speaker 1  2:10:27
Yuyuan are pros at gut Biogenome issues, but there's so many people messed up by gut Biogenome issues. And the unfortunate thing, in mainstream medicine, they don't even talk about gut Biogenome. I'm allowed to talk about it medical school, because I've been there long enough they respect me, but the first time I brought it up, raised eyebrows. But the long story short, gut Biogenome issues are incredibly severe throughout this country, and until we address them more aggressively and understand them better. Now, I don't think anybody understands them perfectly. I think integrative doctors understand them better than anybody, but collectively, it's it's quite the feat to me to figure out how a person from California 's got a different Biogenome than someone in Arizona, and that's different than Texas, and that's different than Mississippi, and different than New York, and that these Biogenome sequences change every three months, and there's so many other things going on, but, but the long story short, we do know patterns of Biogenome assistance, and there are certain conditions that do better with certain probiotics and prebiotics. I think years ago, I used to give prebiotics without probiotics, and that was stupid, but didn't know any better. There's a lot of genetic disorders going around that go unchecked. 5% of your patients will have either factor five latent mutation or prothrombin mutation. When you talked about easy bruising earlier, that quite commonly, is a genetic factor issue, but it's usually heterozygous. So your heterozygous for factor five latent or prothrombin mutation, and that might not be a big deal in the ordinary circumstance, but if that patient that has factor five laden or prothrombin mutation has a surgery like a hysterectomy, and let's say the surgery takes two and a half hours, for whatever reason, that person becomes at risk because they're laid up on that table still, and clots start to show up. And so if I tested everybody that came to my clinic for 20 years, and that was a consistent number, that 5% kept showing up in the diabetes world, I would say the majority of doctors have never diagnosed a case of type 1.5 diabetes in their life, but 's 10% of the diabetic 's in my experience. So you can have type two and have type 1.5 simultaneously. They used to say you couldn't treat Type 1.5 but you can, if you, if you start insulin early, you actually can shut down the autoimmune response in 50% of the cases. If you add a GLP one, you can shut 75% off and add some beta cell function. So in a nutshell, that was some big areas that I just covered quickly, but one night, if you like, I'll come back and we'll spend more time.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:27
We be on, we'd be honored to have you. We got questions about, we've had asking about, just talk about sleep for one instance,

Speaker 1  2:13:38
yeah, I could come in and do a single night. I did a talk on narcolepsy at the AOA years ago, and that was a rather popular talk, but I had 39 narcoleptic cases in my practice, and they go unnoticed. I would dare say most doctors has at least most doctors will have at least one or two cases of narcolepsy in their clinic that goes unnoticed, and even that is something that needs to be addressed. But sleep disturbances don't have to be a sleep disorder. That can just be a person that has MTHFR. When you have mthfffff And you don't make chemicals, you start to not making enough melatonin to turn your brain off so you sleep lightly and you don't ever feel rested. And even when you sleep 12 hours on a weekend, you don't feel rested. And that's that's a genetic issue that's very fixable. But I think when you start seeing that sleep is a substrate issue and a physical issue, and then you fix the both, your patients will get better, one right after another. There's occasionally a clmt patient that shows up and you're good at treating clmt. I would love to,

Bill Clearfield  2:14:54
okay, we'll, we'll, we'll be in touch. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for everything. Thank you Adam for introducing Dr Sam here.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:06
Sam, thanks for doing that. You're very well,

Bill Clearfield  2:15:10
yeah, okay, it's one of my Yeah. So, so next week we have Dr Cernan and Dr Tanner. We're going to be discussing estrogen, and we wanted, we wanted to have it like as a as a sort of a roundtable discussion. And we wanted one more volunteer, somebody else would like to to jump in on that, and then we can let the three of them are going to want to try and coordinate together. Somebody, somebody, let me know. Oh, you know me. I, you know, like, I'll be, I'll be, I'll do it, if no one else will. You know that. So, yeah, so, so we'll do that. But if you know some of you that have been, you know, with us for a long time, and sort of just lurking in the background. It's time to come out of the shadows.

Unknown Speaker  2:16:07
So, Carol Peterson, I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:11
Well, I'll see if Carol 's around. So, okay, and anybody? Dr, nary, you got anything else on online there. Oh, no, that's it. That's it. Okay. Anybody have any, any, any conferences coming up, any, any talk, any, any any talks we will have, by the way, we will have Stefan on we I have another case history that we're going to be presenting in a couple of weeks, I have a 10 year old who came to my office with type two diabetes, Hashimoto thyroiditis and mast cell activation. So I think, and she's going to be on with us. So she was all excited about it. So she's going to be here too. So, and she's 10 years old, so, oh, and she's got the makings. She doesn't have periods yet, but she has got the makings of polycystic ovarian disease also. So just to throw that in also, so

Speaker 1  2:17:15
check a gad antibody on her. Check a what like a gad antibody level 70, yeah, I sent her for that.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:24
1.5 Yeah, I sent her for that. So that hasn't come back yet. So, so, so she'll be coming up. I hope, you know, we did that Hashimoto 's polycystic ovary patient a couple of weeks ago. I hope that was, you know, you guys like that. It was a little bit more, you know, you know, you know, here's our person, and this is what, what we think. So I'm leaning towards going a little bit more towards that, if that's okay with everybody, and let's see. So, yeah, so next week, like I said, we're going to have, what did I say? The old timers kicking in. What did I say? Dr Nario, we're going to be talking about estrogen. 's okay?

Speaker 3  2:18:19
So April 10 to 12. Be there Spring Fest in a for Abraham. See you in Florida. Clear Water. When is that? 10 to April, 10 to 12. I'll be in module five lecturing.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:34
So Okay, be there, and I'll and I'll be at ammg in Miami, April 15 to the 19th. So Okay, anybody else is speaking anywhere, please let us know. And, oh, tomorrow morning, if you're interested. I'm online with the Wolverine acupuncture and integrative medicine group, and I'm doing that the Hashimotos thyroiditis that you all heard a couple of weeks ago. So you're, you all know everything about that anyway. You don't

Unknown Speaker  2:19:04
need to. What is that? Doctor Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:08
it's the Walter Reed Army Hospital, integrative medicine. And they call themselves acupuncture and integrative medicine, some sort of group. So, so I'll be on with them tomorrow for with Hashimoto 's thyroiditis. So, but you all heard that a couple weeks ago, so, you know, just go find the video and it's, it's the same one. So you all know everything there is to know about it, right? Doctor.

Speaker 5  2:19:38
Quinn, exactly. Actually, I met, I met the somebody I met on Twitter during the covid period, and we got in contact because he was selling Allison V and he said that has this multi Cardiogram. And I think he said that he invented, but I may be wrong. I used to have his number. He was a PhD, and he was very he did a lot of invention.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:06
's doctor, okay, well, if you could find us a name and a number, let me know. I got endless Tuesdays to fill up.

Speaker 5  2:20:16
Yeah, I have him on the other cell phone. I have to transfer.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:21
Okay, yeah. And if there's any, any speakers from the past that you like that we haven't seen heard from a while, let me know. We'll see if we can twist their arms to come back. So okay, Dr Quinn, anything on from the research group?

Speaker 9  2:20:36
Yeah, just real quickly, we did kind of a more of a deep dive into Dr Tanno 's program, so we saw what it was all about. We had a discussion on, I guess, those here that would be considered functional medicine type of things, and don't exactly bill insurance and all of that, and 's cash pay. And a discussion had to do with what type of company out there, insurance company could exist that would cover this kind of thing as more of a preventative thing, rather than pay for things after they go wrong. And people, and somebody mentioned something about gold care wellness Doctor James did where there are groups out there. They're almost like religious, affiliated type of groups that that you can, I guess contract with or contact and maybe get some payment ideas. Then the last thing was, the apothecary is moving forward. I don't know if I told you, but the EIN numbers that's redundant, the EIN 's are in, and we've got a solid site, brick and mortar, and I guess now just looking for a little bit of investment to make sure we get equipment and things in there and move forward.

Bill Clearfield  2:21:45
Great, okay, all right, and I'm going to be start, start looking into doing another live show in the fall, or even even, definitely before the end of the year, and and this time, we'll have a little bit more time to plan it than the last time. So, so start thinking about that also. Okay, all right. So, Dr Sam, thank you so much, please. Please join us. If you're free, we're here every, every Tuesday, and you're in Mississippi. 's at Eastern or Central, Central, central so it would be seven o'clock your time. Okay? We're here every week, and we'd love to have you with us. And everybody, I always say, Bring one friend and we'll double our census. Okay, all right, I'll see you all. Thank you so much, everybody. Thank you, Dr Sam, we'll see you next time, same week, same station, same time, same station. I will send you the participant contact list. Dr Sam, if you want to have anything you know, you want to contact any of the folks that were on I'll send you a video also when it's ready. All right, okay, and you all know that the videos are all on our website, aosrd.org, and also on YouTube, most of them on YouTube, except the ones that we either hold back or they throw up, throw us off. It's Clearfield Medical Group for that one we bleeped out. And you remember that when Stefan 's mother was on and and she mentioned, she meant, well, she didn't even, I don't know if you remember that, she mentioned the Gerson diet. She didn't say she endorsed it, she didn't say she liked it. She She said she tried it, I think for a week, if you remember. And they, they, they YouTube, struck us out. Struck it because it was medical misinformation. What are you going to do? It's the world we live in. Okay, thank you all see you next next week, same time, same station. Anybody have any comments or questions, or anybody that you you know that might like to speak? Please let me know and again. Dr Sam, thank you so much, and we'll see you next time. Good night, everybody. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai