Bill Clearfield  00:14
Hey there, Heather, we have you next week, correct?

Unknown Speaker  00:24
You're muted. Hello, hello, hi.

Bill Clearfield  00:30
We have you next week,

Speaker 1  00:31
correct? That's right, and I will have Dr Saleya on as well. He will be talking about the products. I'll introduce him, and it'll be fabulous.

Bill Clearfield  00:41
Just wanted to make sure, yep, we have to twist Doctor tanno's arm when I couldn't find this week's I couldn't find this week's speaker,

Unknown Speaker  00:52
right? Yeah, we're next week. We're next week.

Bill Clearfield  00:55
I've already I've already got, I've already run over Stefan advice,

Unknown Speaker  01:02
or what? Whatever you're doing is helping.

Bill Clearfield  01:06
I'm sure, I'm sure you have plenty of more stuff.

Unknown Speaker  01:11
I always got something for you, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:14
coming to Reno in December. No, you'll be online.

Unknown Speaker  01:19
I can be online for you, though. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  01:23
all right, it's you and I. You know how we do it now.

Bill Clearfield  01:28
Dr Tanner, are you coming to dorino, are you going to be online?

Speaker 2  01:31
I don't know. So which one do you prefer?

Bill Clearfield  01:34
We always like seeing your smiling face. You know that?

Unknown Speaker  01:37
Okay, I'll try to be there. But it depends.

Bill Clearfield  01:41
I know. I think a 4m is the next weekend. So, so again, you know the reason, the real reason we did this, you know, sort of rush job, was to have the homeopaths in in Nevada, get the credits for the year. That's that was the real that was, we had to get it in before the end of the year. So that's right, that was the, that was the, the impetus for the for this whole sort of, kind of quick, quickie job here.

Speaker 3  02:10
So hey, doctor, Tano, I got an update for you on that. Case. You helped me with the prostate one, prostate one. I put him on, I took on, he swears it is the best thing ever for his prostate. And actually,

Speaker 2  02:24
it would work perfectly well, you did a great job. I said, Awesome. Actually, I'm trying to put everybody on the troponin now,

Speaker 3  02:31
and he's like, Oh, this is a placebo. He goes off of it, and within a couple of days, it comes back. He can't even sit in the car on a car ride. Is prostates inflamed so much?

Bill Clearfield  02:42
Yes, yes. So don't leave the rest of us hanging here. Tell us what?

Speaker 3  02:47
Well, I'm thinking it's definitely responding like a fungus would respond to etraconazole. So I'm thinking how to make it more effective. So I asked Mike Beamer, I said, Can we make a suppository of etraconazole? Can we put it up the rectum so there's a local effect and and then we will skip the first pass metabolism in the in the liver, so we can use a lower dose. It can be more effective. It can be localized. Have you ever used that? Dr Tana,

Speaker 2  03:15
yeah, I tried that before. Does it work? Look, yeah, it works, actually. So if we can do atraconazole, local suppository, I think it would work even much better.

Unknown Speaker  03:31
I will do that. Then we'll see if it works.

Speaker 2  03:34
Yeah, it will. If you get a good binder, a good vehicle to drive the drug probably would be good.

Bill Clearfield  03:44
So are you using it? You're using it orally now, correct?

Speaker 3  03:47
Yeah, it's commercial drug now or and it's working.

Speaker 2  03:52
So do you get the actual truck?

Speaker 3  03:55
Yeah, we get generic from Walgreens or somewhere, you know, local pharmacy,

Bill Clearfield  03:59
yeah, you know, getting it from India, mart.com,

Speaker 3  04:03
No, I personally have used brands foreign ox. I got it from Canada because I like a little higher quality product if I'm going to put something in my body, that's what I did.

Bill Clearfield  04:13
It's a little expensive. What does usually want? A day to a day, 100

Unknown Speaker  04:17
milligrams. Take it with food, twice daily. That's a day, yeah?

Bill Clearfield  04:21
For how long? Like forever.

Speaker 3  04:23
I mean, I'm hoping that we can beat this fungus on this guy. It doesn't seem to go away. This is like month three or four, because he keeps pausing it to see if it goes away. It hasn't gone away yet.

Speaker 2  04:32
So according to Dr Andrew Campbell, who did the presentation on those more toxins, you have to do long course, like six months.

Bill Clearfield  04:43
Six months. Yeah, yeah, six months.

Speaker 2  04:50
So I was right on top right, when was this documentation on the prostate inflammation?

Bill Clearfield  04:58
So, is this just inflammation? Is it a prostatitis? Is it a cancer?

Speaker 2  05:02
Well, that's the one, that's the one we did. Remember I did that presentation? I think it was here. I did, oh, yeah,

Speaker 3  05:07
Dr tano's theory is that all prostatomegaly is a prostatitis, and every prostatitis is from an infection, whether that's a fungus or that's a mycoplasma or something, or maybe a parasite. Maybe that's why people were responding so well to the ivermectin when I initially did the prostate community trial,

Bill Clearfield  05:27
was there any update on that? That was a while ago.

Speaker 3  05:30
I haven't heard from them. The Viber chat is full of spam.

Bill Clearfield  05:35
The White's full of spam. The

Unknown Speaker  05:37
Viber chat, that's how they were communicating.

Speaker 4  05:40
Okay, you gotta talk directly with Manuel Gonzalez. This only way you're gonna get info.

Speaker 3  05:46
Yeah, I'll have to call him. Yeah, he's super paranoid. I have to go meet him physically in Europe to get any information out of him. He's working.

Speaker 4  05:53
I don't think he understands how the regulatory agencies are here in the US, because he'll, he'll ask you to do some pretty risky stuff sometimes.

Speaker 3  06:05
Yeah, he's he's a funny guy, but yeah, if you're ever in Spain, you should meet up with him.

Unknown Speaker  06:10
We're on already, okay.

Bill Clearfield  06:14
Well, give it a couple more minutes. I have a video from Dr harrio, from Vienna. He's on his way back home now. Oh, wow.

Unknown Speaker  06:25
Traveler, world traveler,

Bill Clearfield  06:29
oh yeah, he's rivaling you.

Speaker 4  06:32
Yeah. So Stefan, is there anything you can take with the itroconic soul to make it less hepatotoxic, like glutathione, or anything else like that or like

Speaker 3  06:41
I've never seen a hepatotoxicity with Archer kenosal, have you?

Speaker 4  06:45
Um, I've taken, you know, when I take it more than, like, seven to 10 days, I start to get right upper quadrant pain, and I have to cycle on and off of it all the time. I can't take it more than, like, a couple weeks, usually.

Unknown Speaker  06:56
So I have a CYP mutation,

Unknown Speaker  07:00
likely. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:03
you know, I'll combine it with NAC if they're on it for a long term.

Speaker 1  07:09
When you're using the ivermectin, do you use Fen Benz and all, or men Benz and all with it?

Speaker 3  07:15
We use that for cancer, yeah, ivermectin and Fen Ben, okay,

Speaker 4  07:20
well, some are using my Benda. So my Benda Sol is better for the glioblastoma, as I believe it better central nervous system penetration too.

Speaker 3  07:29
Yeah, but they both can work. And I've been recently considering adding itrocona cell to my cancer protocols, especially when I think it's mycotoxin driven.

Speaker 4  07:42
Well, you can test for that on our GCC, if you wanted to, you can't

Speaker 3  07:47
test for the molds. You can test to see if the cancer might respond to one of these drugs

Speaker 4  07:51
to itroconic. So, yeah, you can test specific drugs, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  07:59
So, okay, can I have somebody volunteer to be a co host? Just because I might have to step out, I got some stuff being delivered around 530 so just in case that Steph

Speaker 3  08:15
make me in Dr Tano co hosts and Dr

Bill Clearfield  08:19
Tano speaking, so I don't want to interrupt

Unknown Speaker  08:21
him. Give it to Carol too. There she I see Carol, Carol.

Bill Clearfield  08:23
Carol, can you? I mean, I'll take it. I only just as a

Unknown Speaker  08:29
Sure. No problem. Give it to me and Carol,

Bill Clearfield  08:32
okay, well, even, since we're not, we're not videoing yet, we'll even let you, let you mention Quicksilver. The

Speaker 3  08:41
Quicksilver rep came by my office today. He gave me this pregnenolone liquid product. I'm gonna

Unknown Speaker  08:46
test it out, the neuropregnant alone.

Unknown Speaker  08:51
Yes, it is a neuropregnant alone.

Speaker 5  08:54
That's because I told them about your lecture where you had pictures of the products. Oh, good.

Speaker 3  09:01
You might test it out. I take it pregnant alone every night, so it's be great.

Speaker 5  09:10
So they're going to be doing some kind of collaboration with James Maskell, who's that evolution of medicine.

Bill Clearfield  09:23
He's a he had a podcast. He does. He still do it. I don't know. I haven't heard about I haven't heard a long time.

Speaker 5  09:29
And I know. And then there's another piece of this, um, some kind of platform, and, um, they're trying to make it's another piece of it too. They're trying to make Dale Bredesen recode more user friendly. So they're working, working out some platform to do that with. I had a so I asked for a little training. On it so it looks like it has has potential, but it's really geared for people who are clinicians that want to go out after the brain stuff, the dementia, the Alzheimer's. I said I'm better suited for people, preventing people from getting to that point. So, okay, but it's kind of, it's interesting.

Bill Clearfield  10:31
Okay, Dr Tanner, we're going to have Dr dario's Three Minute take first, if that's okay, and then I'll, I'll give you back the stage. Okay. Yeah, that works. Okay. So it looks like it's a little after five. So Dr Nerio, as those of you may or may not know, is went to Vienna to speak at a integrative medicine conference. He was quite impressed with it. He gave us a video last week, and

Speaker 6  10:59
here he is today. Hello, everyone. We just wrapped up the 2025 effective Biomedicine Congress here in Vienna. And let me tell you, it was packed with innovation. One of the biggest highlights was biological and integrative dentistry. It seemed that integrative practitioners here in Europe place a huge emphasis on this field, and honestly, we should probably be doing the same back in the US. Now, before I get into the dentistry piece, let me share you a few things I saw on the exhibit floor here. It's a brand. Do you powerful but not available in the US, unfortunately, a whole body hyperthermia bed.

Bill Clearfield  11:40
Are you able to see him?

Unknown Speaker  11:41
No, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  11:43
yes, I can hear him. Okay, yep.

Speaker 6  11:49
And cancer support. And also another one is a high altitude oxygen trainer ramps up red blood cell production, and also in an intermittent hypoxia machine marketed as the next big thing in anti aging medicine. Sadly, none of these can be imported in the US, which is why European integrative medicine always feels like a kid showing off toys that we can play with, unfortunately, but the real buzz here in Vienna biological dentistry. So that's the again, some of you might know this already, but conventional dentists have long relied on titanium implants. They integrative. Well, they're back by a decade of studies, and they're basically the Chevy pickup of dentistry, reliable, durable and gets the job done. But biological dentists point out some cracks in the story. Titanium can corrode, releasing ions in the body. Those ions may trigger inflammation or immune issues in sensitive patients. Some even report fatigue, brain fog or auto immune flares. This is where zirconia implants steps in ceramic metal, flea more biocompatible. Think of zirconia as a Tesla of dentistry, clean, modern and marketed as kinder to your biology. Now, why doesn't conventional dentistry jump onto the zirconia train? They want decades of data, not just 10 year outcomes. They also argue that titanium allergies are extremely, very rare, even less than 1% plus titanium is cheaper and wider, I guess, trained to place this, especially in dental schools. So biological dentists counter this by saying, hey, even if it's only 1% reacting, why not go with a safer, more natural option for everyone? So you decide in terms of what divide of the camp where you want to side on to one camp, titanium is still a king. To the other is a Konya is the future, whereas one European dentist here put in titanium is reliable, but zirconia respects the immune system. So take away titanium, tried and true, but potential immune risks, and zirconia highly biocompatible, esthetic, but still building long term data. And here in Europe, integrative practitioners are already treating biological dentistry as essential and not fringe. So that's your report. And again, signing off from Vienna. We'll see you back in the US, and hopefully this is helpful for me, giving a summary of the great conference that we had here in Vienna, Austria. Thank you. That's your leak or Tip of the Week.

Bill Clearfield  14:42
All right, okay. Dr, Tanno, take it away. Yeah, do we need to introduce you? I think everybody knows who you are, right?

Speaker 2  14:52
Guess, so I'm not sure anybody who doesn't know me.

Bill Clearfield  14:58
Yeah, well, dr, Tanno is the smart one in our group, so

Speaker 7  15:05
I'd like to help give him an introduction. Yeah, go ahead, John. Yeah. Dr, Tano is kind of mind blowing, and we all figure that out after a while. I just want to thank him and let everyone know how much he has done to help this group and our research committee and do good deeds, expanding medicine so but the more it would take a long, long time to introduce doctor Tanner for what he's done, but he's helping us With research in a big way, and he has some fabulous ideas. And he's going to be introducing the rest of the world in December to the concept of homeo puncture and homeotherapy. And he just completed a book on that, and it should be done, published and ready to read in December. And I got to read some of it, and it's incredible, absolutely fantastic. And what we need. So anyway, that's all I wanted to say, and thank him for what he's done.

Speaker 2  16:16
Thank you, Dr Burgess, thank you. Everybody hears me Well, yes. And do you see my screen? Yes, very good. So today we're going to change a little gear on what we do, usually, because I think that we go to medical school or we go to practitioner schools, but we never learn the business part of it, and most of the time, when you bring it up, people think, Oh, these guys are coming, coming up with some greedy stuff and wants to make money. But nobody, I think, I don't know how many of you here practice for free. I don't think there are many people who are practicing for free. So if you're not practicing for free, and you make a living out of it and try to help your patients do well, then you have to understand the business behind it as well. So today we all want to put our heads together and see what goes into the business of health. So the title that I have here is a business of health and the productivity equation and the money equation. The Money equation probably we're not going to talk about that, but we'll talk about the business or health and the productivity equation. So I have, you know, this is a little bit dated. We have a beta pro network where we have so many, so much information. Tear pro pal Maris, that's like a LinkedIn kind of platform where people can have their bios, that you can have your own page, your own website that goes into here, that tells people who you are. Because when we go to LinkedIn and put our little resume, it is not enough, but because the Palmer is means all your life achievements. So you will see a little bit about that. The entire pro.com is our big umbrella of all the work that we do. So we're going to start with goals. So when we we go into practice, I think we have a goal. And many of us, if you are in private practice, you will have a goal of revenue. So suppose your goal is to make a million dollar a year. I'm just taking a hypothetical example. We want to make a million dollar a year. So how can we do that? Anybody, if you are in your practice, you want to your goal is to have a million dollar a year. So what do you need to know? What are the variables that you're going to focus on?

Speaker 8  19:20
Well, I think one of them would be your, your payers, right?

Speaker 2  19:27
So, payers, that's one of them, right? Anybody else? So what are the variables you're going to focus on to make you a million dollar marketing? Marketing, okay, that's important. But anything else

Speaker 9  19:44
barrier to entry, what your specialty is that differentiates you from others, so that people actually want to spend money with what you're doing.

Speaker 2  19:50
That's good. That's awesome. Any other things that we should look at, collections, collections, that's great. Any other things that we look at basic things,

Speaker 9  20:01
just like your disposables, your return. What's your projections?

Speaker 2  20:05
Okay, your projections, but you guys are going too fast. So what are the basic things that we look at? What? What are you going to take into account? You mean like expenses, expenses. We're going to take into account the expenses, but before the expenses, what do you so also focus on

Unknown Speaker  20:25
your revenue, your budget,

Speaker 2  20:27
yeah, your budget, and all of that. We're going to look at that. But I think first of all, when you go into practice, number one thing that you're going to determine is, who do I want to serve, right? There are some people who have been a violent they want to go serve a community that are disenfranchised, and so they will put their practices in a poor neighborhood to try to help people. If that's your goal, that's great. So you have to pick your market. That's number one goal. Then number one thing you do, pick up your market. Where do you want to be? So your location is going to matter, and you're going to list all your services. You're going to have to have a website, and you're going to list all your offers, because when you go to anybody's website, they have all their practice offers, what they're doing, how much they're going to do, et cetera. So there are two sides to this. You have your side and we have your patient side. So we have we look at both sides to see what goes into it. So on the practitioner side, first of all, you have to know why you are in private practice. Why do you want to go into private practice? Why don't you work for the hospitals, or why don't you work for other people?

Unknown Speaker  22:01
Because you want to make a difference?

Speaker 2  22:04
Well, you've been you work for a hospital, you make a difference too, right? Why? Why do you decide to do private practice instead of working for somebody on the hospital or something like that?

Speaker 8  22:20
Working for yourself gives you a lot more freedom to choose what you want to do, basically, other than the fact that they say, if you work for yourself, everyone is your boss. I mean, you get to kind of run your own show, do it your way, and not have to take a lot of direction from others that may not have the same interest that you do that

Speaker 2  22:41
is correct. That means you want more autonomy to do whatever you think is right, and you don't want to always answer to a higher power, and you would able to introduce things that you want to introduce. So if you work for a company, or every time you want to make a decision, you will have to call the company. They have to agree with you, and all of that is a lengthy process, whereas when you working for yourself, you can do whatever you want at any time. It's only your decision. But the burden is you are the boss. You are everything, so it puts a lot more of work on you, and sometimes you work in your practice instead of working on your practice. So you become the practice. It becomes you, and you work so hard that you burn out. That's the drawback to it. But otherwise, in terms of independence, we all seek that independence, and that's why we go into private practice. So when you start your business, you generate revenue. So who can give me the definition of revenue? Simple definition, economics, revenue. What is it? Money? Your your money. So how do you how do you calculate that money? Anyway, how do you calculate the money? How she said money, the revenue. How do you calculate your revenue,

Unknown Speaker  24:14
what you make, minus expenses.

Unknown Speaker  24:17
And it depends too, how you want to be taxed,

Unknown Speaker  24:21
right? So what is

Speaker 8  24:23
revenue? It's simply money in how

Speaker 2  24:27
much money comes in. So it depends on how much you sell, right? And it depends on the price that you put on your sales. So revenue in economics is going to be the price times the quantity. So price times quantity is your revenue. So the formula revenue is function of the demand for your services. If you want to generate a revenue and you have nobody buying your services, then you have nothing. Now your services will depend on what. It depends on your skills, your preeminence and your productivity. That's my definition of that. So what is the difference? What are the skills? What, for instance, when we are providers, what, what is, what are the skills that we have?

Speaker 8  25:33
Anybody, well, knowledge of the patients, knowledge of illness, knowledge of wellness, correct?

Speaker 2  25:40
So the skills is actually what we go to medical school for right? We learn all these pathophysiology we learn how to do procedures, we learn how to do all of that. So anyone who graduates from medical school and goes into residency, for instance, if I take internists, all the internist definitely will have the same skills, because when you go to internal medicine residency at the end, they have to clock in all your procedures or your knowledge base before they can give you your graduation diploma. So if you have not completed a certain number of hours of procedures and procedure logs you cannot finish, you cannot graduate. So those skills, everybody has it. So if you need to do an a line, or you have to do any sort of central line, any internist who train well can do that now, what is the difference between skills and preeminence? I don't know. Anybody knows what preeminence means.

Speaker 8  26:52
No, is that like being the top?

Speaker 2  26:57
That's correct. So Dr Quinn has the idea. So preeminence is that your skills are so valuable and you're so way ahead that nobody can replace you. So you are basically irreplaceable. If I take this group, our group here on Tuesdays, why do you think we always meet on Tuesdays, what are we trying to acquire?

Unknown Speaker  27:23
A broad skill set to differentiate ourselves.

Speaker 2  27:26
That's correct. We're trying to differentiate ourselves. We want to be preeminent. We want to learn more than anybody else, and that's why we invite people who are knowledgeable to come to teach us. So we all look to be preeminent, and that goes a long way, because if you're not preeminent in your field, then everybody will come and compete with you, but if you are preeminent, then you can deliver a stellar service, And people will flock to you. What about productivity? So what is the productivity here?

Speaker 9  28:07
It would be like your key players, of you know, what's your KOLs, like your key like your category leaders, of what you have the most sales in? But you have to be careful, because it depends on your business model. If you're burn and turn, you're producing a lot, but you may burn out, and the business may not last long, so it just kind of depends what you're trying to

Speaker 2  28:26
do. Actually, that's correct. So that's good. So we're going to see, we will go in detail. We give you all the information about the productivity. So listen, in order for you to do well, you have to list all your skills and do you want to know? You need to know what your patients want. You have to know what their patients are seeking, and list all your patients needs. Do you also have all the required skills to satisfy what your patients want? You have to be honest enough to say, you know, I think I have gaps in my knowledge, and if I have gaps, I need to fill those gaps. For instance, I give the example of allergy without hormones. So I'm an allergist and immunologist before I got into functional medicine, I had no idea that the hormones impacted allergies, but when I got into it, it gave me an idea that certainly I have some skill gaps that I don't have, and that I should really invest more time and knowledge so then I can help my patients more. And when I added that portion to it, my practice became different completely. Because now when I see a woman who has allergies, who has Estera, other things, hives, name it, I can target that, and I can see exactly why they're having it, and I focus on the right test to do. But if I didn't know that, there was no way I was going to be able to help those patients. So knowing my my what I'm lacking, I invested heavily in that and acquire the skill that I need to have, so then I can be preeminent. So we already give a definition of preeminence and the sura. So example of preeminence. In order to be preeminent, you have to know all of these. So it's a bigger diagram I call Dr Tanner, 21st Century medical preeminence diagram. I like diagrams. So those of you who don't like to learn from diagrams, I apologize, because I am a systematic, systematic learner. I like to put things in diagrams. Otherwise I don't get it. So that's why I draw so many diagrams. So to be preeminent, you have to know the environment. You have to know pathophysiology. You have to know body systems, immune, endocrine or the body system. You need to know them, the 12 system, if you know them, that's pretty good. You have to know pharmacology, you have to know lifestyle. You have to know the market intelligence. For instance, what is market intelligence? Anybody can give me one example of market intelligence, meaning what the market is actually conveying to us.

Unknown Speaker  31:40
I go to the market, I want to buy milk. What do I see around my milk,

Speaker 2  31:51
cow's milk. Anybody have you guys paid attention when you go to the market, you want to buy milk? What do you see?

Unknown Speaker  32:01
Lots of choices, a

Speaker 2  32:03
lot of choices. So they give us almond milk, cashew milk, coconut milk, pea milk, soy milk, oat milk. They keep on making milk out of things that do not taste like milk, but we call it milk anyway. So why do you think by giving us all these options,

Speaker 10  32:30
anybody, some people can't drink milk,

Speaker 2  32:33
some people cannot drink milk, that's correct. Wow. So the market has no not only some people cannot drink milk, but the market is actually telling us something. The market is telling us that probably cow's milk is no good. That's what the market is actually telling us, because if cow's milk is good for all of us, do you guys know how much cow's milk will produce in this country? Do

Speaker 2  33:04
a lot. We have a surplus of it. Actually, Wisconsin alone can feed the whole country. That's why we call them the dairy state. So if cow's milk is good for us, why would anybody in their right mind go and make almond milk, cashew milk, coconut milk, pea milk, and all of that. The reason they're giving us all of that is because they cannot tell you that cow's milk is bad, but they're signaling that, hey, maybe you should look at the other options, don't drink cow's milk is no good. That's basically what the market is signaling. So that's what I call market intelligence. I give you a quick another quick example. For instance, if you go to the market you want to buy sugar, what do you see they give you, Dr queen, he wants to say that,

Speaker 8  33:56
yeah, there's lots of choices and lots of sugar substitutes, good or bad,

Speaker 2  34:01
that's correct. They give you a lot of choices, a lot of so they give you white sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar. They give you sugars, right? So then they give you cane sugar, organic, and they give you coconut sugar, coconut sugar, organic. They give you monk fruit sugar, they give you stevia, they give you all of these other choices. So what do they represent to us? What? How can I as a consumer? How can I disentangle all these sugars? What? What is best? Why? So, it turns out, when they do sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar, white sugar, etc, that is this. Sugar is from sugar beets. And sugar beets, which is the number one ingredient that we use to make sugar in the US that sugar beets is GMO, it is genetically modified to tolerate round up. So if you go to the market, you go to a restaurant, and you order a cheesecake, that cheesecake is made from sugar, and if you know that GMOs are contaminated with Roundup, then you will not want to buy sugar. You just want to buy good sugar, which will be like cane sugar, organic, coconut sugar, organic, or monk fruit sugar, or stevia, all these other choices, but you're not going to go with sugar. So the market is actually telling us some information that we need to know before we can make good choices. Technology, intervening, preeminence, if you very well in technology can do what productivity comes over again, no pathophysiology, no nutrition supplements, all of that. Mind, body, soul, you have to know all this information before you can call yourself preeminent, and also no basic science, at least some of it. So that's how we become preeminent. I mean, you can see that there's a lot of effort and energy that will go into becoming preeminent. That's why we all in school we are learning every week we come here, we try to learn more and more, to fill our heads with knowledge that will make us preeminent. So how to report preeminence? I have said preeminence. Report what is preeminence? Is the sum of all your achievements that you have in your life. The Ki is our community knowledge, and that AI is your total achievement. So if you add those two together, that makes you a preeminence. So the more we learn, the better we become. And preeminence is also known as Palmers. So in Latin, means all your life achievements. So Palmers people when they want to make you so people, they want to do your autobiography or whatever that give you your Palmer is. So I have a website I call Palmers global. And the palm rest global is like the LinkedIn, where you can do this information, you can go there and put all your information, and then everybody will know who you are, not going to go there yet. So the resume. So what is the resume versus curriculum vitae, resume vitae, but all the same, but they're very short, one page, couple of pages of you. But if you take all your life, your lifespan, all you have achieved in your life, including children and their achievement, because that comes back to you, so that goes into your palm rest. What have you achieved in your life? So the resume is really short, and it's not directed to lifetime achievement, but I think palm rest is the better way to go. So that's why I created this site, so people can create their palm rest. So what is productivity define? We can define the productivity. I will just skip this one, because we'll talk about that. So total revenue, as I said, is going to be your price times your quantity demanded. And from this notion, we can calculate total profit. So what is your total profit is your total revenue minus your total cost, and your total cost is going to be made from your fixed cost, your variable cost, your psychic cost and your opportunity cost. So how many of you know about the psychic cost.

Speaker 2  39:07
So what do we hear these days that practitioners are burnt out? If a practitioners are burning out, that means when you go into practice, if you're not careful, you're going to incur what I call psychic cost. That's the mental thing that will make you tired mentally and burn you out. So I think that psychic cost depends on the price you put on your services, the price of your competitors, the information asymmetry, your skill sets, your preeminence, your productivity, and the time to recovery, people who Time to result. So if you, for instance, if you go to a neighborhood and you did not do your market research, and you start putting any price that you want on your services, not knowing what your competitors are doing, maybe you under price yourself. So if you can, your market can bear, for instance, let's say, $200 and you, you come and you make your services $100 all at a sudden, people are flocking to you. You're having a lot of patience, or you have a lot of consumers. Well, you're going to have to cater to each one of them and make $100 when your competitor is charging $200 maybe the competitor will see 10 patients, or have 10 consumers, and he will make probably more than you would if you see 20 patients, in order for you to see to do the same amount, you have to see 20 patients. That means your time is going to be very limited. You're going to have to work harder than your competitor, whereas if you did your market research very well, then you can charge similar to your competitors, and be able to limit the number of patient that you will see and not burn out. So that is part of the whole thing. So you have to know that information asymmetry these days, with Google, YouTube, all of this, social media. The patients that go and gather all the information, they come to you and say, Hey, doctor, provider, so and so I went to Google. I know my condition. I learned so much about it. Help me. All of a sudden, you become frustrated. You say, well, this person, they went to doctor, Google. Now they're coming here. They're going to tax me. I'm going to have to do so you have to know more than your patients to be able to help them, because you being their coach and guide, you have to be able to tell them, hey, this information you got may not be true, or it's not, it's outdated or something. You have to be able to tell them something, but don't dismiss it, because if you do dismiss it, then they will go and bad mouth you. They will tell them their friends, I hope this person is doesn't care about you, etc, and that shows in your reviews. The reviews on social media is going to be the telling sign that you did not do a good job by them. So information asymmetry, the more you know and guide your patients, the better off you're going to be. But if you don't and then start putting bad evaluations on you, all of a sudden you feel overwhelmed. You're going to be so distraught because that you're not getting even people coming to you anymore. And that is what is going on these days. Why so many people get burnt out? I think psychic cost is a big one. Your skill set, if you didn't acquire good skills, if you don't, you're not preeminent. If you cannot deliver results fast enough, then they're not going to be happy with you. So that's what I call sake cost anybody. I mean, I think we have gotten a real fire. Any questions about this stuff?

Bill Clearfield  43:33
Comments? Dr Kano, yes. You know, there's an old axiom, especially in the world of taxation, that when you tax something less, you get more of it in the long run. And so is it better to charge $10 and get 40 patients, or is it better to charge 40, $40 and get three patients?

Speaker 2  43:58
Well, it depends. So there are two, two ways that. So we have the law of large numbers. So if you believe in the law of large numbers, then you would charge you, you want more patients, or more people to come to you and with a lower cost. But if you don't believe in that, and these days, the way things go, if we take functional medicine, for instance, practitioners, many of them, cannot even afford to see so many patients, because they dedicate their time to few. So then they can give them value. But if the more you see, the less value you can give no matter what you want, you're going to apply yourself so hard, but you have to double your time in order to be able to achieve the result that you want to achieve. And that's the patient will see that. They will see that while you you're not giving them the time they need, as a result, you not going to do so well. That's why functional medicine practitioners, they limit the number of patients to probably 10 a day or 12 a day maximum, something like that. So they can make sure that the patients are getting what they need. If you take the insurance model where they want to see every patient every 10 minutes or 15 minutes, and you can't, you crank it up the time you say, hi, goodbye, then patients are not sad, especially in the 21st Century. The patient being savvy, it becomes a burden on you if you see more patients. I was,

Speaker 9  45:31
um, I did hospitalist trauma about 20 years ago, and I can remember we had, it was IPC, and we had to do our own billing. And I can remember thinking, Okay, I'm gonna see 10 level four is rather than 40. Do you know what I mean? Because you get called to care, yeah, yeah. And Bill hire, but I do cash training, I'll thank the Lord. Oh yeah, I

Speaker 2  45:51
think we all go into functional medicine now, because we see the value in it, and we see that more people would like to be seen and address the issues really well, completely, rather than partial treatment that don't work. And for that reason, seeing less may be more valuable than seeing more.

Bill Clearfield  46:13
But on the other let me give you a real life example. I required a transcranial magnetic stimulation device the company recommended we don't do insurance $500 a treatment, and for minimum of six treatments for sort of wellness, it's $3,000 we got zero takers, and we spent a lot of time, you know, explaining it. And, you know, one on one and whatnot, I dropped it down to $200 a visit at six visits, and we got 15 signups within six weeks. So $1,200 times 15 is better than zero at 3000 at least, in my mind,

Speaker 2  46:58
got true. So that's what pricing is going to come in. We're going to talk about that. So the price matters a lot. So if you overcharge, even though your market so you have to charge what your market can bear. And I said that in the beginning, if you put too much of a price on your services, you may not have anybody, but if you have an optimal price that you put on your services, then you will get people. But if you under price yourself, on the other hand, then you become burdened with things that you don't even want to deal with.

Speaker 10  47:40
So I have a question. So if he had started at five at 200 and they all thought that was too much,

Bill Clearfield  47:48
I think he Do you understand where I'm going with that, instead of starting with 500 Yeah, 200 seemed like such a bargain. Now, yeah, well, the supply said that $500 it was the minimum, and you couldn't charge less than that. So looking at, you know, collecting dust for a couple of months, and I said, you know, to hell with it. You know, better to use it and and get something out of it, and then, you know, stick to our principles here and and get nothing.

Speaker 2  48:19
So actually, that's it. It's a strategy for pricing too. By the way, initially you put your price high because it's difficult to put low and then increase it. So you put your prices high, and then if you don't see takers, you go down. So people see that now as a bargain, and then you can chat, they can come to you. So what you did by putting 500 and nobody was showing when you reduced it, instead of going to 200 maybe it could have gone to 300 if you did 300 probably people will see, oh, this is now acceptable bargain. We can come and see this person for visa procedure that cost way less than what we expected. So even our Amazon may tell you that if you want to, you have, you have books and you want to price them, make sure you put the prices higher and then reduce them later than put it low and try to go up on it.

Unknown Speaker  49:25
Dr Tanner, there's also the concept of perceived value.

Speaker 2  49:30
Yeah, perceived value, that's correct too, yes.

Speaker 11  49:33
So if you put some mistake or something magical about what you offer that makes it more attractive,

Speaker 8  49:43
great. That goes back to his marketing, yeah, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  49:49
yeah, okay, so go ahead, please.

Unknown Speaker  49:52
So generically, you know, it's common sense or single Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  50:01
yeah, you know, right?

Speaker 11  50:04
So is that something you can learn or something you have it's it's kind of epigenetic. Who's to say it's something you learn the hard way, right? Sometimes, yes,

Speaker 2  50:17
but so you have to be very careful not to linger around like several months changing the price like Dr Bill did he couple of months. He realized nobody was thicker, so he decided to drop the price. And he dropped it drastically. If I were you, I would not have dropped it to 200 I would go to probably 300 sequentially. And we

Bill Clearfield  50:41
did that. We did that too. Okay, I might have gotten been able to get it at 250 So,

Speaker 2  50:48
yeah, so if you drop it, then they will come to you.

Unknown Speaker  50:53
Where does luck fit in the equation?

Unknown Speaker  50:57
What is which one luck? Luck?

Unknown Speaker  51:01
CK, Yeah, where is luck been in the equation?

Unknown Speaker  51:05
What do you mean by luck?

Unknown Speaker  51:06
Right time, right place?

Speaker 2  51:11
Well, I didn't put luck in here, but we're going to see other things that would come in that would play. So we'll see epsilon. So lot comes into epsilon. The epsilon is the error term that we make when we make all these functions. Error term picks up everything else that we omitted, measurements wise and specification wise. So this epsilon means a lot this n term, it captures everything else that we didn't specify. Now the psychic course, we talked a little bit about that. What about the opportunity cost? Who knows what opportunity cost is?

Unknown Speaker  51:57
Take care of the game. Okay?

Speaker 2  52:01
Anybody else? So opportunity cost is that instead of investing, say, in practice, in medical practice, and you went and did something else, so you created another business that could probably yield more money than going to practice. So that money that you forgoing by opening the practice is the opportunity cost. So your opportunity cost is the value of your next best alternative, the alternative that you could have had, whatever else you could have done with the money you're spending on practice building, you could spend it somewhere else, in another business that would probably yield more money than if you when what you're doing now in your practice, so many people, they're good to medicine that don't even want to be there, so when they're finished, instead of investing their time and money into practice, but take that time and go somewhere else and try to open other businesses and do what I had. The colleague, a classmate, who, after we graduate, we graduated medical school, she decided to be a cook, a chef. So she left and went to San Francisco and became a chef. And that is part of you know, what she liked to do, and she didn't want to be burdened by all this. So she became a chef, and she likes it, and she did really good, whereas perhaps if she had stayed in medicine, she would not have done very well. And we see these examples very often, where people tend to change professions and they go to something else. So in terms of pricing, we're going to talk about the elasticity of demand. How many of you have heard of elasticity or demand.

Speaker 2  54:07
I give you the definition of elasticity or demand is the percentage change in your quantity demanded per percentage change in any of the determinants of a demand function. So we will see all the Depend determinants of a demand function, and then out of that, we can calculate the price elasticity of demand. All of you with private practices, you should be able to calculate your price elasticity of demand. That's very important, because if you're not doing that, you will not know exactly how much you charge. And that's what Dr Bill was bringing, because initially he charged higher, and the market could not bear that. But if we had calculated the elasticity of demand prior, that would allow us to be able to say, yeah, if you did this way, this is what will happen. So it's important to be able to calculate the elasticity of demand so price elasticity of demand and total revenue, the percentage change of quantity demanded over percentage change in price, that is the delta qds over qds divided by Delta px over px, and when you flip it. So this is a basic math, dividing the top fraction with the inverse of the bottom fraction. We get this number here, and that is the elasticity, price elasticity of demand, the total revenue and the quantity so how much you sell and how much value gives you, you can see that it's an upward sloping curve, and then it gets to a maximum and start declining. Now your demand curve is a downward sloping curve. That means, if your price goes up, what happens to your quantity demanded you when price goes up, the quantity demanded goes down. So that's the log demand. For those of you who want to know, the log demand says that if your prices go up, the price you put on your product or your services goes up, your quantity demanded will go down. So in the if you compare the elasticity of demand and and your total revenue in the area where you're before the maximum of your total revenue, your elasticity of demand is greater than one. When it's greater than one, it means that if you increase your prices in this area, your demand will drop. So you're not going to be able to make money by increasing your prices. So that's what we did with Dr Bill. So not calculating his elasticity or demand, he decided to put $500 price, but the demand was elastic. So if the demand was elastic, by increasing 500 be priced to $500 he was zero takers. But if he had no business elasticity or demand, and known that this is elastic, then he would have already started off with lower pricing, so then he can make more demand, or people can buy more from him at the peak of the revenue. That is unitary. Elastic means, if your price goes up by 1% your quantity demanded will go down by 1% so it's a cool amount. Whereas here in this region where the curve is going down, your demand is inelastic. So when your demand is inelastic, you can charge as much as you want, meaning, if you increase your price, people don't change they will always buy from you. So what will cause you to have a demand that is inelastic in terms of your qualifications?

Speaker 2  58:20
Anything that we said that would make you have demand that is inelastic. Preeminence. Yeah, exactly. That's your preeminence. Dr queen, that's correct. So if you are preeminent, which we are seeking here by coming every Tuesday to learn when you are preeminent, your demand will be inelastic, meaning it doesn't matter how much price you put on it, people will recognize your value and they will pay for it. You may say, I would rather go see this person who is so knowledgeable, I'm sure I'm going to get the response, I'm going to get good results, and they will pay for it. So you may have a lot of people coming to you, because you are preeminent. That's why preeminent is very important for all of us to get.

Speaker 1  59:07
Also the audience is very important, because you may get an area where people are willing to pay quite a bit of money, even as a status. And there's the paradox of thrift, where sometimes when things go up in price, they become more desirable. So you might be able to luck out and be in that area and do even

Speaker 2  59:26
that's good. That's why, when you trying to locate yourself, you have to actually pick your area. And if you don't pick it right, then you're not going to be able to charge as much as you could. That's good part of three and luxury good. Many people, they also look at the luxury good, they say, well, this person is charging more. That could mean that this person is preeminent. So they can equate higher price with preeminence, which is not always true, by the way, but depends that's the market manipulation. So if you know that, you know very well so you can increase your prices, and you would draw a certain population to come to your clinic if you're in a good area, of course,

Speaker 11  1:00:20
Doctor Tanner, where would a focus group come in

Speaker 2  1:00:24
focus? Which one a focus group

Speaker 11  1:00:29
where you get a representation of potential market and sit down and have discussions with them? Oh, yeah. Like, it's like group therapy ahead of time, getting valuable feedback on which you make decisions and more enlightened projections.

Speaker 2  1:00:48
So that goes back is, I think it's in your market research, because initially, before you even undertake any kind of pricing or anything, you have to do a market research. That's why I said, know what your competitors are doing. Know where you want to locate yourself. All of these are part of important decisions. When you're trying to create a clinic,

Speaker 11  1:01:14
you wonder how people position and plan a vaccine. Do

Unknown Speaker  1:01:24
Yeah, so do

Speaker 11  1:01:25
they create a need for it, or is there a need for it?

Speaker 2  1:01:29
Well, so if you go to vaccines and all of that, that's a whole different ball game.

Speaker 8  1:01:34
But can of worms shell, yeah, a big can of worms.

Speaker 2  1:01:39
You're opening more stuff, but I'm just focusing here on the practice management, or how do you come up with a practice that would be viable?

Speaker 11  1:01:48
Well, what they did to us in business school, which it's like somewhere between, you know, suffering and torture and learning is a study methods, and we got bombarded. Instead of getting a thesis, we got come bombarded with case studies.

Speaker 2  1:02:06
Yeah. So, yeah, the case studies are important, but you have to know what goes into it, right? So your marketing, or the sales, everything, you can get a case study on that, and that would allow you to do the best you can achieve in your market. So you have to understand your market very well. If you don't, then you can burn yourself, and that's what I'm trying to avoid here. And trying to tell people before you go do stuff, you have to know certain things. And if you don't, you just haphazardly, because everybody's in functional medicine, okay, I'm going to open my functional medicine practice somewhere in this neighborhood, etc, without a proper study, and that is going to burn you. So it's important.

Speaker 11  1:02:51
Well, to me, the big lesson is, you know, why didn't they have more professors like you?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:58
Me, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:02
Well, you know there weren't enough,

Speaker 2  1:03:05
yeah, anyway, so increase price. I said, be worse, if you want to increase your price. So to increase your total revenue, you can either increase your prices, because price times quantity, or you can increase your sales. That's what Dr Bill was saying. You can either increase your number of people you see, and that will put a lot of burden on you, or you can increase your price. But if you want to increase your price, you have to know your elasticity or demand, because if you don't know that, then you may shooting yourself in the foot. So high ticket offers, you have to be aware of the high ticket offers, where you increase your price and then you can get more people. High Ticket offers depend on providers decision variables, and the decision variables, I will show you that as part of the preeminence and all the other things that we talked about, and the high ticket offers also depend on your niche. So if you have a nice niche, you can carry it out and charge high prices, high ticket offers also depend on the market size and hungry buyers. If you have people who are really looking like currently having more people looking for functional medicine providers, and you are in a city or a place where you have less providers, then you become a niche you have a niche market where you can charge more increase sales. So if you want to increase sales, sell to more buyers, I would say, be careful. That can lead to burnout. That's what I was saying initially. So if you see so many patients, you can burn out, and then that goes down the drain and be a student's model. That's what I told you about. Sell more things to each buyer, desirable. So when I say sell more things to each buyer, that means you open up more stream of income. So for instance, if you go to a functional medicine office that would also serve you, not only best services, that will give you supplements, that will give you hormones, that will give you all of those things that they can charge for. And so if you have more stream of income you can afford, cm, very little amount of patients, and then make life easy for you, but if you don't have more stream of income, that becomes difficult.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:29
There's burnout therapy,

Speaker 2  1:05:31
yeah, and increase the frequency of sales to each buyer desirable. But sometimes they can say, well, he's charging me so much. He makes me come to us a week. Every day he wants to come and charge me. You have to be careful of that. So how often do you see your patient per year? For me, when I do functional medicine, I see the patients initially, and then I see them three months. I see them six months, and then I see them a year. So it's about three, four times a year I see them, and that's it. I don't see them all very often, unless they're complicated and they need more visit. I try to make it as simple as possible, and not seeing them very often. So talk about high ticket items. We talk about location, revenue sources for the buyers, ability to and willingness to pay. That's very big, because if the patient are not willing to pay, no matter what you do, it wouldn't go anywhere. So how do you find buyers for your services? We're going to do advertising, Google, social media, word of mouth, which is the best out of Elmo?

Unknown Speaker  1:06:49
Word of mouth,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:51
word of mouth.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:52
But how do you get word of mouth,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:56
testimonial results,

Speaker 2  1:06:58
testimonials, and also preeminence. If you have preeminence in any fashion or form, then people will love what you're doing, and they will tell every all their friends, and they will come to you, so you don't have to spend a lot of advertising monies to have the patients come to you. So example of revenue streams I have in integrative immunity practice. For instance, I came up with a revenue stream for our practice where you do your advertising, either Facebook, Google. We can do funnels. We can do using artificial intelligence. You can do however. You have a landing page where people come, you have a questionnaire, they fill up a questionnaire. And then I have an app that I'm creating. It's called the PhD app, where people can fill it out that all come to you, and then some person, virtual assistant, person, is going to book them when they're triaged and booked, then you will see them in the office. When you see them in the office, you have to keep them. Because to be able to keep them, you have to do a complete evaluation review, a system physical exam, establish a good rapport with them when they learn that, then you have to educate them. Do you guys know the number one complaint of patients against the providers,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:34
education, education?

Speaker 2  1:08:36
That number one complaint is that this doctor never told me why I my I'm having this problem. Why? Why I have this condition? He never explained to me my condition. That's the number one complaint. They call it the gripe o meter. So on the grippometer, the number one complaint is, doctor never explain anything to me. So I don't know why I wouldn't even want to see him. So it's important to include education in the visit. And that part of education takes a long time if you know what you're doing, and that will drive the patient to make a decision that education will lead to places for me, allergy and immunology, either biology education lead them to want to do allergy testing, allergy sublingual immunotherapy or allergy treatment, or it leads them to hormonal evaluation and treatment. Either way, you generate some revenue, because if you do allergy testing, you're going to generate a billing if you do skin testing, it generates some bill. If you do food testing, it generates some income. If you give them nutritional supplement that also goes into your income. So you through here, you can generate a lot of restraints of income if you did a allergy shot. Also on top of that, after bed testing, that generous income, and if you did sub link immunotherapy, that generous income, I'm trying to see if I can help people do this, and that's part of our training. So if you have food allergy, you can do sublingual mineral therapy, but also generous income. If you have nutritional supplements that you give to the patients that use passive income, because over time, the patient will come and they will want to buy more from you. So everybody is doing this, and they come in and they buy more from you. And if I did hormones, the hormones also you evaluate them. You they come in, and every three, 612, months, they come in. That is a visit, but also passive income from nutritional supplements. So everybody who comes is going to generate more income from you. So for you, so you don't have to really kill yourself and seeing 2050 patients a day before you can make ends meet. And so everybody gets happy that way, our nutritional supports are going to go out. So this is the true demand function. Remember the quantity demanded that portion that says, function of your price, the price of the other providers, your income, be taste of the buyers and the effort that they put in. Because sometimes the buyers, they come in, they don't want to put in any effort at all. They think that you can give them everything, and then they will be healed without any effort that is not going to work. You have to tell them that they have to put in some work themselves to be able to do that advertising or be your services. But if you advertise, your competitors also would advertise the outlet means how many locations you have. So you will see some of the providers, they have many, many locations because they want to diversify their income sources. Maybe in one location you're not getting so many people. In the other location, you have more people who can pay. And then you have the provider decision variables, which will be the information asymmetry, the skills, the preeminence, the productivity and the time to recovery or time to results. These three are the patient's decision variables, the income, the taste and the effort that they will put in. So how do the patient express their taste? Does anybody know?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:51
How do patient express what

Speaker 2  1:12:53
their taste, the taste that they have in your in choosing your services? How do we know? What do we know about that taste, so whether the patient like you or not? How do we know that?

Speaker 8  1:13:13
Because there's numerous ways referrals is one of them

Speaker 2  1:13:20
that's good. So what a math referral somebody,

Speaker 8  1:13:23
right? I mean, there's also feedback when you get that. There's also ways that people do satisfaction surveys.

Speaker 2  1:13:33
So that's why you go to Google, and everybody goes to Bill reviews down there, and these days, I mean, I'm so shocked every time a new patient comes to me. I say, How did you hear about us? They said, Well, I reviewed your your evaluation on Google. I said, Well, Google actually messed up everything, because there's no more surprises, because the people come to you based on what they see on Google, whether it's true or not, until befriended. That's why, if you get a bad evaluation, honestly, you have to call that person, or you have to figure out a way to eliminate that bad evaluation, because they will come and hunt you for sure. So you have to be careful dealing with the patients and trying to satisfy them. Because if you do satisfy them in consistently, and you get several good evaluations, then you will get freebies, because they're referring their friends and families and everybody else coming to you. So you don't have to spend a lot of money on advertising. What about bi? Is the income. So that is one of the decision variables. If an income is good, well, certainly they will want to buy higher if they don't have any income, no matter what you do, even you give them supplements that say I cannot afford it and they cannot afford it, and you're not going to force them to do so. So income is very important, but the effort that they put in. I see many of the patient that I see and give them my stuff. A lot of them take it seriously, because I explain to them why I figure this is very important to them, and once they know that, then they go home and they take it seriously, like I give them estrogen free lifestyle. So they go there, and they study all the food that they're eating, and they're not doing them anymore, all the cosmetics that they're using, they're not using them anymore, because now they realize they have to put in their own effort to get results. It's not just me feeding them the results. So that's important. Sellers return on investment. So we all make investment, or you put you you borrow money, or you do whatever, and you create your practice. When you do that, you want to know how much you're going to make out of it, and that all depends on several variables. So initially, for me, I want to make sure that the patients are doing well, and if they're doing well, how do I know well when they're coming, I give them a questionnaire to begin with. I give them the questionnaire, and then three months later, when they come I repeat the questionnaire. When I repeat the questionnaire, I can see where they have improved, because if you don't do that, then you will not know what your services are achieving. So in order to do cost effectiveness analysis, you have to know the pre and you have to know their post. And so the question that then would be your variable that you will look at to see if they're improving. Because if you just say, How did you do? How are you the patient will say, Well, I'm I'm the same. But when we did, you dig deep enough you find out that many of the things that you ask them on the review of system, they have improved. So they're not telling you the truth when they say, Oh, I'm the same. I'm the same. In what regard? I'm the same because I'm improving. I'm missing because I'm happy. I have no idea. So by doing this objective measurement, then you can tell they're doing well or not. So that's important, and I say that if you don't know these variables, there's a price that you pay if you don't know all your your variables. Here, the price that you pay is the price of ignorance, and I say that here, if you don't do so, what you pay a psychic cost. If you don't invest in human capital, means you don't learn more about your field or things that you delivering, then you pay a seller's remorse. The seller's remorse is that you're going to see patients, and the patients are going to be so difficult, they're going to give you bad evaluations, and all of that you say, Why did I even see this patient? They create me so much trouble, and that is sellers through most so you you sell into the patient. A patient is creating trouble for you because you did not really focus on your decision variables that may help you out. So that's very important. You I talk about incremental cost effectiveness analysis, or elasticity. That means the outcome how much you You've improved over, because the change in the cost times the cost over the improvement. So if you see the initial condition, which means they're poor, but diabetes is not controlled, or their blood pressure is so high, etc. Now you give them what you think is right, and all of a sudden they come back and they have improved. Based on your questionnaire, you can see already that your delta E is higher, and then that number is going to be positive. So very good. Multilateral interactions in the metaverse. So you have, that is a complicated diagram where you have the patient, you have the providers, you have the insurances, you have the pharmacies, you have the hospitals, and you have pharma, what they're doing, all of those things are going to entangle you. So if you are in private practice and you don't deal with payers, you shortcut everything. And that's why being independent practitioner is beneficial than being in the messy system. So how many of you, before you open your practices, you ask yourself, you had a questionnaire that you try to fill out to understand your market, to understand everything, I think, before going to practice, you have to definitely learn about locations and everything else. So what is the average price of your services? You have to know that, what is the average price of your competitor services? What is the average or median income in your draw area. What are your Google Yelp or reviews like? What are the reviews of your competitors like and why? So if your competitors are having good reviews, you want to learn why they're getting these good reviews. Are they preeminent, or what else are they doing that is driving these good reviews? Can you do better than your competitors on your own? And if you can't, you have to invest in human capital. You have to come to classes. You have to take classes to learn. If you can do better than your competitors, why don't you implement it now? Do you do any advertising and where and how? You need to know that, and do you know if your competitors are advertising and where and how? How many stores do you have? How many stores do your competitors have? What proprietary information you have that your competitors don't have, but make you preeminent and unique. So then you don't, you cannot be replaced. What special skills do you have that your competitors don't have? So you have to know all of these differences that if you don't, then you cannot compete very well. Are you preeminent, irreplaceable in your area because of your unique skills and know how? Or are you as productive as you would like to be? Do you have the energy to produce How fast do you deliver results to your buyers? Start initial results and start to final results. Do you know, are you distracted easily? Do you have difficulty concentrating? Do you have home situation that prevents you from being productive? Do you have outside influences that prevent you from being productive? Are you creative? How many creative ideas have you had in the past month, and where are you are they stored? Do you have goals and how many are you actively pursuing? So if you have a goal and you're not actively pursuing that goal, that goal is a dead goal. Is dead. That means it's not an active goal.

Speaker 2  1:23:06
Do you feel anxious and depressed about life circumstances? Have you sought help for these feelings? How is your overall health? Have you ever checked your biologics? Means your hormones, so all of us should check our hormones and see where we are, because if we don't, the hormones may impact us adversely. Do you take nutritional supplements? If you don't take good nutritional supplements, you may not be doing so well. Do you feel tired of the time? Are you at your ideal body weight? So imagine you want to give someone good weight. The patient come to you, you want to help them out, and your weight is overwhelming that you're not looking good yourself. The patient looks at you and say, You want me to lose weight, and you are more obese than I am. So how can I take Can I take your advice so you have to be able to have a good looking way to be able to sell good way to somebody else. That's an example I'm giving. Do you exercise? Do you have time to enjoy life, family, friends, pursue hobbies, all of that. And so as part of our assessment, I actually, actually be providers to take our questionnaire that we have. And if you take the questionnaire, it will give you an idea of where you are. Do you need help? That we can help you out. So the questionnaire, again, I put it here in a better format, and people can can see it, buyer side. So the buyer side is going to mirror the product the producer side. People buy products and services to get an outcome, and they felt called return on investment. So if you have a buyer and they're coming to you, they want to maximize that outcome. Skip few things here. Recall the preeminence variables, etc. And the bias per side is this, and we're going to focus on the three variables that they have. And the buyers also have the bias remorse. So if the buyers do not do their own research and see who they're going to see they're good to Joe, the function of medicine guy. And Joe does not have any training, does not have any preeminence, does not have anything and doesn't explain anything to be patient when they're good to him. All of the sudden the buyers remorse sets in. He said, Well, I went to this person and I thought he was good, but now he didn't give me any value. So they're going to go and then bad mouth you and Google from there. But if a buyer did their homework and they found a good person that would tell you when they come that actually I heard that you were good, and you demonstrated to me that you were good, and I'm really satisfied. And I can tell you rather many people are very honest. The people I have found to be very direct and clear are the military people. But I worked for beyond me, one year, and when they're happy, they tell it to you right then they don't even hide it. But other people, they don't say much, and they go and they don't do a whole lot. But beyond me, people, they're very clear, and you'll be more satisfied with them than anybody else. Any questions. I think I'm going fast now because I wanted everything to be done. Questions before we go

Speaker 8  1:26:47
yeah, quick question, sorry, go ahead. Go ahead.

Speaker 12  1:26:50
Oh, I wanted to ask for Integrative Medicine. Do we need a license? Because I was wondering, I mean, if we are MD, then we can do integrative medicine just just we advertise like this, or,

Speaker 2  1:27:07
yeah, so if you're an MD, and you took the integrative medicine classes and all of that, and you have certificates, then you can advertise that you have training. For instance, people who go to be training programs and some of the big organizations, I don't want to say the names here, then those training count. They give you fellowships, they give you all of that. Then you can claim that you have training in it. Some people may go to a weekend class, and so I'm an expert. Now I'm going to practice integrative medicine, or I'm going to do functional medicine, but that may not go so well because they did not see all the aspects of it, and they don't have the experience and they want to practice it. So that becomes a big, difficult problem for them. And if you don't know all the things to do, like, what hormones do you test, what companies are giving the test, or etc, that becomes a problem for you.

Speaker 12  1:28:17
The medical books they want us to have license, to have a qualification, like some kind, some kind of diploma?

Speaker 2  1:28:27
No, it doesn't. So they don't really require any diploma or anything for you to practice functional medicine. No, and they they are diploma that they give you when you do the fellowship are not even recognized nationally or internationally.

Speaker 12  1:28:44
Oh, I see, yeah, because then I was working for teledoc, and they asked me, What kind of medicine Do you practice? Because telling the patients to take quercetin and other things that I heard is good. And I just look, and I see, oh, okay, this is good. This is I looked, I read about it, and so I did recommend it. And then, you know, I did not even know the legality of the thing, so I just was scared. But thank you very much.

Speaker 2  1:29:13
So, yeah, there are few laws that you need to learn to know, though. So there are some functional medicine lawyers. I know some of them. If you someone is interested in finding a functional medicine lawyer, I can recommend someone for you. You let me know, and then I would have you do that. They have a course, they have all of that. But tell you what not to do, things, things to do and be watch out for because some people get into trouble when they try to practice functional medicine. If you don't know all the guidelines, you don't know what to tell the patient, you don't know what contracts you need to sign with the patients. All of these matter and that, whoops. Sorry, yeah, all this can get you in trouble with your State Medical Board. So yeah, what goes into it?

Speaker 9  1:30:03
If you want to contact me, I have all the forms and everything, because I teach, I'd be happy getting to you.

Speaker 12  1:30:10
Oh, thank you, doctor. Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. Can you type your email or send contact?

Speaker 2  1:30:17
Yeah? Yeah, very good. Doctor. Queen, you had a question. Somebody had a question.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:26
No, we have a lot in the chat, but go ahead. Dr queen,

Speaker 8  1:30:29
no, I'm good. I was just asking. I was just going to ask something about your evaluation form. You put up an evaluation type of thing there, and I didn't know if you had numerous evaluations that people could get from the site.

Speaker 2  1:30:45
Yeah. So we have like, 21 page questionnaire that they take 15 minutes to fill out before I see them, and after three months, they take that questionnaire again after treatment and all of that, then I will see where they are, so based on their responses, then I can say there was an improvement or there was no improvement. That's how I do that.

Speaker 8  1:31:13
Okay? And then one one follow up to that, when you do see people with an improvement, all that, do you ask for testimonials? Do you? Do you feel comfortable in asking people to recommend you? Do you feel comfortable in doing video testimonials as as a way of expanding word of mouth?

Speaker 2  1:31:34
Yeah, you can do that. I typically, I sometimes they're so enthusiastic. I say, hey, they said, Wow, you did so good. My IBS is gone in two weeks. I'm so happy. I say, Well, can you say that? Can you write it up for us when they express it so vividly? I said, Well, can you give us a good evaluation? Can you go and do it? And so there's no harm in asking. Some people also, what they do is that actually ask the people to give them evaluation, and every patient that comes that send them a postcard and say, Thank you for visiting. Can you give us evaluation? And stuff like that?

Speaker 8  1:32:12
Yeah, the reason I asked because I'm looking for a helpful hint here on maybe how to do a better job of that, because what we're finding is that people are very willing to give a great type of testimonial. And like you just said, Tell how they feeling. And oh, that's better. And this is the greatest product I've ever had, and all that kind of stuff. And then when I asked them, can you write a paragraph? Would you be willing to write a paragraph? Would you be willing to do a 32nd little video on that roadblocks everywhere that it just, I just don't have a good way to get, I guess, testimonials. And I was wondering if you found any effective way. I mean, I think this question is open to everybody, because all of us here, practitioners are pretty good in the preeminence thing, I'll say, but to get that word out is, is not, is not as easy as I would have thought.

Speaker 2  1:33:09
Yeah, so actually, you're correct. Many times the patients who are unhappy are the one who, God, give you the evaluation, the ones who are satisfied, they don't say anything at all. They just, they're happy, they just don't tell anybody, but just go on their own. But that one, the ones who are not happy, they're going to badmouth you, unfortunately, that's the nature of it. So I think our society is a punitive society all around. If somebody does a good job, we never tell them, hey, you're doing an excellent job. But the minute they misstep, the pope will hear about it. So that's across the board, is what it is. So it is good to pick the patients who are happy, and you know for sure that they love what you're doing. To tell them, Hey, can you give me an evaluation? You have to be candid about it. You have to be clear about it. And they will do that. Some of them,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:13
yeah, I got used to just making sure my my staff, and I asked, you know, yeah, good one. So it takes a little practice, and then once you sort of get it down. I don't really have have a big problem with that. I'll tell you. I'll give you one example. If you go on my Google page, you'll see you'll see a lot of five stars, and you'll see one one star. The one star was my financial advisor at Edward Jones, who moved to another company, and then he moved to another company. So I said, this guy doesn't seem and he was young, he didn't seem so stable. So I said, I'm going to stick with Edward Jones. The next thing I know, there's a one star review and something about I don't give Oh, he wanted me to buy an annuity from him, and I told him no, and I got a one star review from that. He was never a patient. Call Google. You know, this is kind of bogus. They said, well, that's between you and him. It's, it's eight years, it's still there.

Speaker 2  1:35:14
Yeah, that's correct. Actually, many of the patient who give you one side, you never saw them that became been happy about you. Call back, call your office. They didn't get you or something. They put a one star. For what reason you never saw me. You don't even know why I'm not responding to you.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:33
Even, even worse, if any of you deal with any of the medical spas, they are cutthroat, which with each other. They come, yes, they are a complaint to the to the to the whatever licensing board about nothing. You know that we have one gal who was stealing from us, and she left. And you know, we know we escorted her out the front door. The next thing we know, there's all these complaints you know about us. And it was came all came from her. So, you know, I mean, what are you going to

Speaker 2  1:36:05
do? Yeah, it is what it is. Because now everybody looked at that Google evaluation. Some of them are very clear about it, though. They look at all your good ones compared to the one star. And there's no that this person was out of out of a line, out of I Am,

Speaker 9  1:36:22
if you don't mind me interjecting here. And I don't know if this is legal or not, but I make an agreement with my patients that if they have any problems with me, please come talk to me directly, and if I have any issues, I'll come to you directly, just as we follow HIPAA for you, please follow for respect for myself and for my family, and that you know, please do not go on social media if you have an issue, come have an issue, come talk to me. And so I've yet, the only time I've ever had it is from a troll who wasn't even a patient. It's so weird, like, if somebody said, like, she shoved threads in my face, and there was some response you can give. I can't remember what it was, but it's because you can't deny, or that's the crazy thing, right? You can't actually claim that you're a patient, but there is a

Unknown Speaker  1:37:04
breakout you

Speaker 9  1:37:06
sorry I got muted, but there's a way to know without knowing, like, if you know that they're your patient without being you know, I would just have something that you could respond with. I would really recommend that that is generic across the board of kind of your policies and procedures, you can tell that the person was lying, but not admitting that you're a patient. And then for the question earlier, if you don't mind answering, I know I talk a ton. Sorry. I love what I do. Clearly, I actually have them do a video with me, right there. So for a review,

Unknown Speaker  1:37:39
right there. Boom,

Speaker 2  1:37:41
that's cool. Now, with his cell phones being so sophisticated in two second, you got a video?

Bill Clearfield  1:37:48
Yeah, exactly. You can get somebody like Joel and, you know, threaten to break their legs. That works too.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:57
Is he available for

Bill Clearfield  1:37:58
hire? Yeah, he's kind of unemployed at the moment, so he's actually down in Vegas. So there's lots of stuff. If anybody go ahead and talk, there's lots of

Speaker 2  1:38:10
stuff. There's a lot of stuff. I mean, I could go on and on, because this is just an introductory thing. As long as you know that there are two sides to the equation. You have to know your patient side. You have to know your base provider side. You have to know that everybody is trying to maximize the outcomes, and the patient have their own agenda, and the providers have their own agenda. So we need to focus on the things that we can control, such as our variables here, which will be our things that we master best and be as preeminent as we can be, so that we can serve our patients regardless of what they do. And then they also have to be honest enough to say that this person is really preeminent. They know what they're talking about, and if you are, I don't think that they will hide it. Many people are honest, and they will do that. So basically, that's what we have to retain here. We can do a lot of calculations for outcome, which in functional medicine, we don't have a lot of that, and that's where I come in and try to say, Let's do cost effectiveness analysis, let's do calculation, let's do the questionnaire and use the questionnaire as outcome questionnaire, pre and post you have the results, and then we can do calculations by people will be interested in, because people don't know what functional medicine is, that don't know what integrative medicine is. And the more we put out in terms of outcome, be better off everybody will be. So then we know that we measuring actually of things, rather than saying, Well, you came in, you did good, we know that you did good, but there's nothing that we need to show for and there are some variables we can measure, like even came up with hypothyroidism, or they came up with Hashimoto thyroiditis, and you give them a treatment, and then the antibodies went down drastically, and you have your protocol that led them to have low antibodies. You can always see that I did ABCD, and these people did so much, and then have a feel that would put that in the questionnaire, and you can take that into account. And you can have actual variables that you determinants that you can impact, and you can show that there are calculations for elasticity. We can do functional forms equations, you can do regression analysis, all of those things we can do. But I'm not going to go deeper anymore. I think we have, we run out of time,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:54
30 messages in the chat, so you don't mind taking a

Unknown Speaker  1:40:58
few of those? Yeah, we take some of the questions from each

Bill Clearfield  1:41:01
other. Doctor Collins says 70% of patients leave an injector after their third visit. So you have to have a reason they want to be there. She states she's developed at her own patented procedure. And membership, you have some have to sometimes find something that works, that differentiates yourself. So good advice. And Dr Quinn says membership seemed to be the way to go. Personally, I've never been able to figure out how to do that. And Clearfield says, don't buy the expensive esthetic machines they that they try to sell you.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:32
There you go. That's correct, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:36
unless you need the depreciation and the deduction. So

Speaker 2  1:41:39
Right. So I personally think that membership, I tried that, but the nurse practitioners, for instance, who are doing a lot of hormonal evaluations and treatments and stuff, they have a low entry points, and if they're in your state, that could be something that you need to watch out for, because everybody say they want to have low cost, and then they'll go there. They give them hormones that are not working, and then they're going to come to you and say, I need you now. So you have to watch out what they have done and where they have been before you accept them or working with them and try to figure out, because there could be that they dissatisfied with some PE or nurse practitioner claiming that they're functional medicine, then they don't have the qualifications to do the good job.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:39
Okay, so here's a hint to come next week. Dr hallis says, with the scanner that will be described next week, patients can come back every month if they want to. So there's a little bit of a hint there. So I don't know what it is, but we'll, we'll, we'll stay tuned and find out, okay, being

Speaker 1  1:42:57
a little bit mysterious, but you'll certainly find out next week.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:00
And this is why I love regenerative, precision, esthetics, Dr Quinn or Dr Collins says this, are you able to get patients paying a higher price for your services and your practice?

Speaker 2  1:43:12
Yes, I do. So I don't know what higher prices, but I have what I call the executive executive evaluation, where I give them everything. I mean, I give them also the supplements that they need, because many of the executives that don't have the actual physical time to go buy the supplements and all of that, so I make it available in a package. So our packages work very well, and then I give it to them, and I charge them a higher price because they're executive I call it executive evaluation for the middle of the road people. I charge, like, a year, a certain amount, and I've charged less compared to even nurse practitioner. Nurse Practitioner, some of them charge $5,000 for the middle one and yeah, so I just go a little lower to make sure that everybody can be taken care of. That's how I do that. When it comes to overall, I go lower, so I do two visits in one so they come, I give them my evaluation couple hours, and then I send them for testing, and then I have them come back after the test results are available, a bundle that in one price, and that has worked out very well for my practice. That's what I have done for years.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:48
Dr Cano, during the conference, we're going to, we're going to get a separate place, and you can, you can evaluate the rest of us, because we can all be your patients. Oh, that would be great.

Speaker 2  1:45:04
So I don't, I don't really charge a whole lot, but I think it's affordable and fair and but get good value.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:12
Wow, that's

Bill Clearfield  1:45:14
Dr college says, create an experience in an annual game plan. And no one wants to be feel that they were sold

Unknown Speaker  1:45:20
correct.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:23
And okay, Dr hallison, I'm going to leave that what you have for next week. Okay, so something about a scanner and whatnot, so we'll just leave it at that, and we'll leave the mystery where it is. So baseline quiz is imperative so they can see their growth or improvement? Do you do? You do a computer, EHR, dr, piano, yes. Is your intake go directly into the into the thing? Or do you have to sort of copy and paste it,

Unknown Speaker  1:45:53
or whatever? No, no, no. I said, direct into the ER,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:59
where does the Pareto Principle fit into your algorithm, P, A, R, E,

Speaker 2  1:46:04
T, O, yeah, Pareto algorithm, Pareto Principle, which means 80% of your success comes from 20% of the people that you see. That is, well, it depends on where you located. So if you are located in a very good environment, and people see the value, and that's what your preeminence comes in, then you can apply the principle where 20% of your patient will pay higher prices, and then you can stay in you can stay in practice that way, so you don't have to burden yourself. But if you, even if you also location, if you are preeminent, and you locate yourself in an area where people cannot afford things, then you have to work harder to achieve where you want to be, and you have to have more people before you can get those results. You have to charge less. Okay, if you charge less, you see more patients. So that's the drawback about it.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:08
Okay, Dr Collins left her phone number, and she states that she has forms and will help in any way she can. I'm I'm assuming Dr Collins, that's for the for the whole group there. Sure?

Speaker 9  1:47:23
Of course, okay, I just have tons of forms that, yeah, I'm not going to charge anybody $5,000 they can have them. There's enough people in the world. Yes, just don't do me. But yes, you can. Anybody can have anything I have.

Speaker 2  1:47:34
And those of you who also want to have a lawyer access, I know someone. I worked with them. Are belong to their group, and they charge really way less for forms and everything else you need to know about functional medicine practice.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:51
Okay, Dr Collins says it's called tomorrow because she's passing out now. He must be on the East Coast, so yes, okay, so I didn't mean for that

Speaker 9  1:48:00
to go to everybody. We're supposed to go to the team. Supposed to go to the PA, I'm sorry.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:03
Y'all thank you for your thank you for everything. So, Dr Quinn, here's a here's a little food for thought for you here in the research group. I know you've been working on the apothecary and supplements and, you know, treatment protocols. But what about the front end? What about, you know, a standardized you know, you know, that's what we get criticized for. You know, we're all hodgepodge. We do. We all do different things. What about a standardized intake for? What about a standard? You know, standardized protocol. This is, this is what and I, I know every patient's different, and we have to look at different things, but there should be certain criteria that we that we want to be evaluated.

Speaker 8  1:48:46
I think that's a that's a great idea. I'd like to work with Doctor Tanno. I do know Doctor Tanno and I were working with a another company. We've kind of slowed down on that. Doctor Tanno, that would be drew green, that you remember that that developed an entire system of an intake that led more to integrative type of solutions, we'll say Not, not just what, you know, what's the best? SSRI, you know? It led to much more integrative type of things having to do with various products that can be, that can be used. And I think Dr Tanner and I were extremely interested, because it's a way to, I guess you'd say, show people a different way than, than what the usual is. So I like that suggestion. And if we can, if we can expand that, that would be great. I think right now, we're really focused on on the, I won't say education, because Dr Dimitri didn't like that part. It's getting out information on products and things that are that are there, but it's an entire system that could be in place. Dr Clearfield, it's, it's a fabulous idea,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:02
all right, I mean, just, you know, kind of throwing it out there, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:06
I already had the beginning. So the questionnaire that I have

Speaker 2  1:50:14
needs some additions to, like, toxins that we talk about. And if we have a toxin part to it, then it becomes complete, really good question. I have embedded that in my app that I created for PhD app where the patient would take the questionnaire and they will be able to it, will be able to come to us, and then, based on that, we can evaluate them and follow up with them.

Speaker 8  1:50:41
Okay, Dr Tanno, is that? Were you referring to? I think I sent you the environmental exposure analysis. Yes, I remember that. Yeah, we had and. And when you talk about, you know, doing something for your patients with the environmental exposure, we had success with the it's a long form and, and seven pages worth of questions on what you know your history is, and what you've been exposed to, what you feel, and all of this kind of stuff. And the greatest success we had was when we had patients fill that out, and then we did, we did the form and the analysis before they came. I don't know if that's what everybody does. I think people get a little bit anxious if you go into the office and then you start filling out forms, and then the person takes the time to read the forms and see what's going on with you. But our biggest success was when we had everything done ahead of time. I don't know if that's usual or

Speaker 2  1:51:38
not. That's what I do. Actually. I have them fill out the form. I get the results before I see them that way. I have a time to evaluate it and see exactly what their problems are. And when they come, we go over it, I show them systematically what their responses are and what does that mean. So once we have that, I do complete review of system too. So that's why it takes a little time, because we go do the reviewer system, then we do the physical exam and all of the things that they need to have

Bill Clearfield  1:52:10
that too. We also have labs done before we see the patients. So we have a standardized, you know, lab panel, because, you know, mostly we emphasize, you know, where the hormones, so that's, that's kind of where.

Speaker 8  1:52:23
Okay, Dr Clearfield, is that, I don't want to say, Is that legal, but can you order labs and things without seeing a patient?

Bill Clearfield  1:52:33
I've been doing it for 20 years. Okay? I won't tell

Speaker 2  1:52:36
I don't do that, because I could be, I don't know, depends on the state.

Speaker 9  1:52:41
Maybe in Georgia. Now, patients can own, I mean, can order their own MRIs and labs. It's crazy.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:46
Yeah, nowadays, yeah, there's a lot they can

Bill Clearfield  1:52:48
order. So there's a group, I won't mention it, since we're still on the CME, the doctor, P, A, I attended a conference. They do anti aging medicine. They have people buy packages for $5,000 a package. Some of them are just nutrition classes, not even NP, I'm assuming nurse practitioner.

Speaker 12  1:53:13
Yeah, I can explain. So I went to a conference with the Health Alliance, and they had packages. They only sell packages, and a package minimum 5000 only the coaching, and they do a test. They're doing some genetic tests that it was made by the guy that it's Brian Johnson, yeah, yeah, which costs like $2,000 something like that, and comes about $400 $500 every three months. I just attended that. I saw advertising on Facebook and I bought a ticket. But doctors, some of them were just,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:00
yeah, yeah, that's, in my opinion, I'm sorry, he's the guy that spends dollars a year on

Speaker 13  1:54:09
anti of the marinade and, all right, who's got because I think, I think it's going to be fine. I think you'll like it. It's nothing horrible at all, but just in the middle drawer, let's take a little spoon and

Unknown Speaker  1:54:27
tuck into somebody. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:31
somebody, all right, I think we got it. Go ahead.

Speaker 2  1:54:37
Are there questions, the chat or not anything else, anybody else

Speaker 13  1:54:42
is keeping you very busy. I'm sure.

Speaker 12  1:54:46
I think this is nice to do plasma phase.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:54
I didn't hear you.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:56
Yeah, petronel, you got muted me.

Speaker 12  1:55:00
I think I would like to do plasmapheresis, because I think it's very good, and it cleans the blood of all the toxin. And I saw procedure, and it's very easy, it's very safe, 45 minutes, and boom, just, they just put the kit, and they run the test, the blood filtering.

Speaker 2  1:55:20
And so if you want to phrase this, watch what doctor Andrew Ken boss presentation was last time. And he claims, if you go to his lab that he uses, I'm not going to say the name now, yeah, he indicates that for more toxins, they're so minute that the plasmapheresis does not get it. You cannot clean the mold toxins. So there are certain toxins that are big enough you can remove them that if you talk about more toxicity, then you cannot do that. So that's the only thing that I can see may not work with your plasma freeze, but now more and more people are having more allergy they're having all kinds of more toxins. And the toxins go to bind the tissues that go everywhere and you cannot clean them up.

Speaker 12  1:56:19
Wow. But wow. But the reason that I because I saw on Twitter one time that the vaccine causes a switch between IG four and iG three, and patient make more IG four or something or IG three, and those are non functional, and that's why they causes turbo cancer. I also saw somebody that covid researcher, PhD from Paul he's in Alberta, Canada. He always talk so and somebody else told me that they need plasmapheresis. So that's why, actually, they said that the patients that got covid vaccine, they need plasmapheresis to remove this IG for some some kind of switches there between the immunoglobulin class. And that's why I thought and also I heard Dr Loeb, who talked one time Academy of stem cell physicians. He said that, yeah, they do plasmapheresis and remove the spike protein. If there is spike protein or something, they remove it. This is what I heard then.

Speaker 2  1:57:33
I'm not sure what school I mean, what groups do a good training in plasmapheresis. I know some people who are doing it, but I have no idea why they go learn it, because it's a little bit of technical stuff that people would have to learn to do a plasmapheresis. So I mean, do you know the school where you you want to go and learn this?

Speaker 12  1:58:00
Yeah, I took a class, but it was just like a short presentation for two hours. And during that class, they said that, oh, the so I that they have some training in Florida, in Boca Raton. I think we have to take some classes, and they also have the machine. It's about $125,000 very expensive, but

Speaker 2  1:58:27
that's why they charge a lot of money for the plasma ferress too,

Speaker 12  1:58:32
yeah, but it's safer than ebook, because it's just, you just it's the nurse who does it. He puts the needles and the filter and boom, it filters about about one liter of blood, one liter, a little bit over one liter, and then they have to do five times to filter everything. They said that cognition improves by by 40% and the cancer, they got better whoever had cancer, because they remove a lot of toxin from the blood, and then they also show us, like the blood toxicology before and with the metals and all the toxins in the blood. But another thing that it's important, actually, I have to forward the email that I received. It is ASEA. They said, ASEA, it's very good. And they also have studied with ASEA after they took Asia and they did toxicology in the blood and also detoxify. And they said that,

Speaker 2  1:59:41
yeah, those products that people are selling and that don't have any outcome studies on it, they say it's good, but I don't, I see, I've seen it for a long time. Actually, back in 2011 we had a little store, and we were selling that product in our store, and unfortunately, I have not seen any studies that say that I see is a good detoxicant, that it will be good to clean up the blood or take toxins out of people. So unless there's such a thing and you engage in it that may be detrimental to you in terms of what patients see, if one patient complains, then you're in trouble, because if you claim that, well this would do this and that, and it doesn't do what you said it would do, then that can get you into trouble. So that's one. If you want to position that, you have to be very careful not claiming anything that they can

Speaker 12  2:00:54
they have the study. I can send you the websites that they have, and also, if you that it's the doctor czapski and Gina Moran. They are with us here, but it's a big thing with us here. He also does Chuck ski. He does a lot of I took some classes. I was meeting with him for about six months in on Tuesday. And he uses also a lot of thymosin for cancers, so because it improves the T cells. So he's using a lot of thymosine. And he says he has amazing success for everything thymosin, thymosin Alpha.

Speaker 2  2:01:34
Thymosin, differently, is well known peptide product that people use for sure, but again, that goes to show who has the results and who want to share the outcome, because that's what one thing that is lacking, and that's why we need to come up with a standardized questionnaire or whatever we can use To measure outcome in functional medicine, because I don't see a lot of people doing studies that are coherent, that will tell us that they got good outcome in such and such. Everybody have a and a doctor kind of situation. I did this, and this is what is given me, but we don't have a uniform kind of study, like if you do cost effective pharmaceutical companies before they publish anything at all, before they come up with a product, they have to do a cost effectiveness analysis of that product. We have to show that the outcome is there. Otherwise they cannot go to market with it, and the FDA mandates that. So if in functional medicine, we capable of coming up with a cost effectiveness analysis or some sort of outcome measurement quality of life, or cost utility analysis, or cost benefit analysis of those, I think we'll be able to do better and claim. I mean, not claim, but at least show the world that functional medicine works. Because even though the functional medicine practitioners do a good job or better job than general practitioners, because we don't have those outcomes clearly delineated. People don't believe in that. Some people, I mean, if you talk to general practitioner, that don't even have a clue of it, but they would just dismiss it.

Speaker 12  2:03:31
Yeah, I think another thing that so at that conference, I was also very impressed of the stem region.co, also David Sinclair, Dr David Sinclair said that it's number one supplement, stem Gen. It releases the millions of stem cells every day, and it fixes Parkinson, everything I think everyone should at least read his book, cracking the stem cell code. And he also has videos like I today. I watch a video of him, but it's very interesting, because he also has intense protocol, and he said that Parkinson in six months, improved by 60% and with just with that powder, they release their own stem cells from the bone marrow.

Speaker 2  2:04:31
So that's another area I'm just question everybody. Because you know, stem cell practice is one in which people get in trouble with it too. The State Medical Board, they crack down on practitioners who are using stem cell to do certain things. So unless you really well versed in it and you know who can support you or who can testify for you and tell you that what you're doing is right. I said, don't take the risk.

Speaker 12  2:05:07
No, this is, this is only plants. This is only like supplement, blue algae, blue, green algae and spirulina and some other five plants. But they, when you take this, they release your own stem cells, and it's amazing.

Speaker 9  2:05:24
Cresca is a off the shelf telegraft that I offer in esthetics and regenerative medicine. It's FDA cleared. I just got a primary. I just got clearance for IV use for Crohn's, but it's under the scope in Georgia under esthetics. So the research that we do, there's regenerac, that we track, everything and such. But you're absolutely 100% correct, because sales search for network that I trained under with Mark Berman, probably eight years ago, was sued by the FDA, and they spent $7 million on the lawsuit, which I definitely don't have. So yeah, 100% just Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:06:01
that's a sticky point, so you have to really be careful.

Speaker 12  2:06:06
Oh, it's Dr Collins. You got the proof to do.

Speaker 9  2:06:10
So it's so cresca. I got approved. I didn't personally. I mean, yes, I do personally have it under my scope and my protocols, right? But it's under a partnering physician and a partnering company. You have to be super careful, and you have this, the documentation is a pain in the butt. As far as talking business wise, it's definitely not moneymaker. But I believe that we're called to do things but God, and use our skill set to serve other people. So to me, it's all about, you know, being your integrity and doing what is the best for the patient. Now that could be something completely different, out of scope, that people say, right? So I don't mean it like that, but just saying, within acting within scope, having your protocols, having the research, there are ways to do things that you can help people. So don't be I'm I'm not trying to say, like be a cowboy, but don't be afraid to to research it too.

Speaker 12  2:06:57
Yeah, this is over the counter stem region, but it's a very good supplement.

Speaker 9  2:07:01
Look into cresca. Look into cresca and rivaska.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:06
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:07
this is where dr, dr Naria would, would admonish you all to look into the Nevada board of homeopathic examiners, which would, which takes into the scope of practice anything under the rubric of integrative medicine, right? So, in fact, that's what the the impetus for our conferences coming up in December. Notice how I segued into that Dr Quinn.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:33
That was brilliant. That

Unknown Speaker  2:07:35
was pretty

Unknown Speaker  2:07:36
sweet. Hey, that was awesome.

Speaker 8  2:07:38
Yeah, anytime you can drop Mario's name, do

Bill Clearfield  2:07:41
it, yeah, so, so the Nevada new homeopathic examiners takes as its scope of practice every entity in the in the our field of integrative medicine. And they will, they, they will use that as a protection for against the, you know, the other medical boards just bananas an HMD. You don't have to live in Nevada. You become an HMD in Nevada. You have an extra layer of protection. And then Dr Quinn's going to tell you about the tribal nations also.

Speaker 8  2:08:15
Well, yeah, not only that, but as you know, I'm a member of the Nevada State Board of homeopathic medical examiners. If people need information on that, feel free to reach out

Speaker 9  2:08:27
that's going in the tribal component. That's where actually we do a lot of studies. So that's off the record for a talk another day, but thank you, Dr Quinn, I'm going to reach out to you.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:35
Okay, wonderful. And the executive director happens to be my secretary, by the way, true, we have, we have been in and if not, then we'll send dr, dr narrow out to get the bad guys for you, right? So Dr, dr Tano, do you have a parting gesture for us?

Speaker 2  2:08:57
So I just wanted to introduce you to the business side of medicine. I hope that I give you the variables that you need to look at, whether on the provider side or the buyer side, and all the things that go into it, and what you need to do. And my focus is that preeminence matters, and all of us are seeking preeminence, and that's why we congregate here every Tuesday to try to learn. So the more we all learn, the better off we are, and we can put in protocols that work. So our goal is to come up with better protocols to treat conditions, not to just band aid them, and then cure them as much as we can, and then tomorrow showcase functional medicine, that's what I can say. So the more we learn, the better off we are.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:02
And the showcase will be December 4 to 620, 25 Reno, Nevada, in person and online, we have research. We have day one is research. Day two is homeopathy. Day three is integrative medicine. And we have some pretty prominent, very prominent speakers, aside, aside from Doctor Tanno, we have Doctor shailenberger, who we've had on here. He's going to be talking about ozone. We have swahar Sudan, who was like the number two, you know, guru at a 4m. We have her. We have Felice Gersh, who's the number three guru and and Thomas Levy, who we had at our conference in Las Vegas three years ago, is coming up from, he lives in Colombia, I guess, and he's coming up to he's going to do Friday morning. He's, we're giving him three hours Friday morning. So is Dr Gerber on. Dr Gerber, you here? No, okay, so we're bringing him up from Okay, so, so we're not, we're not, we're not. You know, you know, just throwing the nilly Willy at you, we're giving you folks that you would pay lots of money for, you know, the next weekend is a for m, I think, or the weekend after, and for the specialty weekend there, it's $2,500 ours is a lot less. And we'll be nicer about it too. It won't be quite so frenetic. If you ever been there. It's crazy. So if you haven't gotten you should have gotten at least one email with the information and the website and registration. If you haven't gotten that, please let me know, and we will be sending them out periodically right up to the event. So with that, Doctor Tanno, I can't thank you enough. We had a little speaker kerfuffle. I was having trouble finding the speaker, so we will have her on on November 4. We got Doctor hallis next week with some sort of something or other. We'll have that

Speaker 1  2:12:22
something or other. Doctor, Saleya, will be here with me, and he will be discussing many things, but basically a scanner to give a baseline of of where everybody is, and then products that will help you bring patients back in, perhaps every month or whatever you want to see how their numbers change and how the products help them. So it will be a pretty exciting presentation.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:49
We are next week, same time, same station, 8pm Eastern, 5pm Pacific. And you know this, this production is strictly controlled by the National Football League. So no, no, no.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:05
Hey, now I used to be an NFL cheerleader.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:11
Please let me know. You can get it website. You can get it off of YouTube. Also. Okay. Week after that, we got Dr Crowley. He's going to regale us with his hypertensive protocols, and then we're going to have Chris Miletus back. That'll wrap up October. So any comments, questions, we're also looking for sponsors for the conference. So if you want to sponsor, and we're cheap, we're not, we're not, you know, we're not a for m where it's $50,000 to put up a booth or something. So 500 for a basic table. If you want to do a non CME presentation on Friday, it's 1015 100 on Saturday. So so we have room for about 1010, sponsors, and please at least sign up online, because we at least want to break even. I mean, we're really not looking to make money, or that wouldn't, wouldn't hurt. But we we need your we need your support. Okay, in house, we only have room for 60, so I'm hoping to fill the room. And then out of the house. We were online, and everything's arranged. We have 20 CME credits you get with that ama category one CME that goes with that. And if you're in the homeopathic world, that'll count towards your Nevada homeopathic credits.

Speaker 2  2:14:37
Also the one thing I forgot Dr Bill this whole presentation. Actually, I had the three hour 25 minutes video made for it, for people who may be interested in let me know.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:53
Okay, all right, hang on, hang on, hang on. Don't say anything else. Oh, okay, sorry. Well, Dr Tano for you. Know, this was a great presentation as always, and we'll see you again, same time, same station, next week. Okay, now. Now tell us your video.

Speaker 2  2:15:11
So I said so in my degree immunity mentorship program the beginning, I have this whole course on this practice information in a video three hour and half or so video where people can get all the ins and outs of that, of everything that we have said so far went slower. But here I give you all the stuff, the complete thing that you need to know about what to look for when you're starting a practice.

Speaker 8  2:15:49
You know, can I give a shameless plug here for Dr Tano Petronella? I think you're in the same boat as a lot of people. There's a lot to do with integrative medicine. You can spend 35 years like Dr Clearfield and who knows everything now, or you can. You can start out maybe in a more organized fashion, I would say, because I know from speaking with you, you're learning a lot of things all around having to do with treating patients. Dr Tanno has a six week course that can really get you where you need to be to to, let's say, open your doors and really be doing effective treatment with patients. So you might look up Dr Tanno and the tie up. Pro Metaverse, correct? Is that okay? Dr Tanno,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:40
that's okay, Doctor queen.

Speaker 12  2:16:44
What it is a course in

Speaker 2  2:16:48
we have a six week what I call integrative immunity training program, mentorship program. It's the mentorship because you take the videos, but then Fridays, we meet and we answer all your questions, and we can go over cases, so then you know exactly how to apply it. But many times, when you take big courses from the big companies, they're very personal, so people take give you all the information, but you have to go and synthesize it yourself, but here we give we take you step by step, and then we show you how you apply it, so then quickly you know how to use it. Yeah.

Speaker 12  2:17:37
Very good. Thank you. Yeah, I would be interested to learn to take the class.

Speaker 8  2:17:45
Yeah, very good. So apparently, and then you have a two year version too, right?

Speaker 2  2:17:49
I'll have two year version. So where Dr Quinn did not tell you what we have now created a doctorate program that is that about two years, and you take that, then you can get a license to practice with the First Nation Medical Board,

Speaker 8  2:18:11
which is what Dr Clearfield mentioned we were talking about at the conference on Thursday. You can learn about that as well.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:20
Okay, okay, and with that one last, one last shameless plug for me is, I'm actually speaking at a vitamin C conference in two weeks from Clearwater Florida, believe it or not, on the effects of vitamin C on on hormone optimization. So anybody needs, I think there's CME credits there too. Anybody interested in that? Let me know. I'll tell you. I'll let you know. You know where it's at. So, right. Okay, any comments questions? I don't think there's anything else in the chat.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:01
75 something in the chat, I have no idea what that is showing.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:07
Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:08
you got a lot of

Unknown Speaker  2:19:12
okay, okay, okay, okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:21
Thing there. P space, AI, internal medicine. And, okay, so where we are. And Dr Collins says she has regen esthetics, so this whole last part is not being videoed so we can talk freely, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:44
Regen esthetic version.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:51
Okay, I know it's, it's getting getting late on the on the West Coast, on the east coast. So I'm going to let you folks all go the recordings for last week, I think they're already up getting I'm getting a little little behind. I know Dr Gerber is from August. I somehow I missed that, and so that that should be up shortly, so, but I think last week we did, what did we do last

Speaker 12  2:20:23
week? Something about muscle muscles. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:28
This is my, this is my old timers disease kicking in.

Unknown Speaker  2:20:33
Was that? Dr shankaris,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:35
yeah. I think

Unknown Speaker  2:20:37
CLA,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:38
yeah, yeah. It's on aosrd.org It's already there, and it's probably in YouTube also. Okay, okay, so I think we're good. All right, I'll see you all next week. John, you got anything before we go?

Speaker 7  2:21:00
Everything's beautiful. Thank you very much. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:21:03
all right, we hope to see you all in Reno at the beginning of December. If you can't make it, we want to see you online. Okay, and spread the word if you know we you all have, you know, email lists and whatnot. We don't want to, we don't want to invade them, but please take our links. Make it. Make it. Take, take the email that we sent with the links and send them to all your folks. Okay, so we can get get a nice crowd, alright, so some of you that are influencers, are you know, really, you know, do us? Do us proud. Okay, that's enough. Good night,

Unknown Speaker  2:21:44
everybody. Good night. Thank you.

Speaker 1  2:21:49
Thank you very much, and I'll be getting you a bunch of emails for the doctors for next week.

Unknown Speaker  2:21:55
Thank you. Okay.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai