Bill Clearfield  00:14
Know. Dr Hartman, No, you look handsome tonight.

Speaker 1  00:18
Well, hey, thank you. I dressed up just for you. Yeah, look at that.

Bill Clearfield  00:23
You know, I had a suit like that in the 70s. You know, I'm bringing it back. It was a leisure it was called a leisure suit.

Unknown Speaker  00:31
You guys dressed well back then, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  00:33
it had white piping, though. Take a look at it. Yeah. So had power and we had a you had a pink shirt to go with it.

Speaker 2  00:44
Oh, yeah, yeah. So, so what's the occasion that you're all dressed up?

Speaker 1  00:50
I been dressing nicer at the office. I'm also filming my course. So I'm filming a course every night, looking nice. Great. What kind? Of course, it's a hormone optimization course. Okay, yeah, it's gonna be for the Florida Academy of pas. They're gonna see me certified it and promote it to the PA organization, so hopefully I can red pill, my colleagues,

Bill Clearfield  01:22
okay, all right, let's hope so. So So I managed to get our speaker's name wrong all week here, so I apologize. Dr Boko, hi.

Unknown Speaker  01:36
Dr Clearfield, thank you for being with us.

Unknown Speaker  01:39
Thanks for the invitation. Really glad to be here

Bill Clearfield  01:42
anytime, anytime we we we're here every Tuesday. We've been here since 2020, so we love amazing. Happy to happy to have you with us, and love you to join us, because we got a lot of good information, like that good looking guy wearing a tie and a suit there is, is one of our two smartest guys, and the guy next to him, that narrow guy,

Speaker 1  02:04
Melvin, Mario. He's always got some new Pearl from us, new conference he went to in Europe or Asia.

Unknown Speaker  02:11
Yeah, awesome. So I want

Speaker 1  02:14
to know what his itinerary is this year. Which conference in Europe are we going to?

Speaker 3  02:18
Melvin? So the the Vienna one is not going to happen this year. Says every two years, the one that I know about is the Germany one in Baden. Baden that's is that October, sometime in September. So it's the medicine week for Germany, and it's a collection of all the integrative practitioners in Europe. And they do so many, so many combinations of so many things, homeo, homeopathy, do apheresis therapies, ozone therapies, I think you'll, you'll like that one. You like the diverse, yeah, you like the diverse, integrative approaches.

Speaker 1  03:02
Uh huh, okay, I see it's in Biden, but in Germany, 2026

Unknown Speaker  03:10
and maybe Dubai, Dr Bill,

Speaker 2  03:13
and maybe Dubai, you never know, maybe Dubai, Dubai. I've been there once. I still don't have your CV. I'll get it to you tonight.

Unknown Speaker  03:23
Make it bulky.

Bill Clearfield  03:25
Hey, you know, I've been doing this for a while. How bulky Do you want it? 30 pages, 40

Speaker 3  03:31
phone directory. 40 pages, no, like a phone directory, like no, the phone book, when nobody,

Bill Clearfield  03:37
nobody, 40 even knows what a phone book is,

Unknown Speaker  03:43
that's why I'm telling it to you. Because, you know, you

Bill Clearfield  03:46
remember back, back in the day when the cars were as big as your house, houses we'd have, we, we'd be two or three of the Philadelphia or New York City phone books for my mother to sit on so she could see the over the end of the end of the car.

Unknown Speaker  04:03
He was four foot eight.

Unknown Speaker  04:05
They use it for something, not just for phone numbers, right? So well, why is the final spiffy?

Bill Clearfield  04:13
That's what I made you. I muted you. Dr manario By

Speaker 1  04:17
just dressed up. I'm filming lectures at my office for a functional medicine course.

Speaker 2  04:22
I think he's just showing off, just trying to look like

Unknown Speaker  04:25
Clearfield did back in the 70s.

Speaker 2  04:27
Yeah, you do? You? Do? You just need it. You need a pink a pink shirt, though?

Speaker 1  04:33
Okay, I'll get one. I'll add it to the itinerary.

Speaker 3  04:35
Yeah. So me and Dr Bo, we go way back. So he's my batch mate in medical school, and he's also my fraternity brother. So we went through those weird things that you hear about fraternity initiations. Did you get hazed? Are we recording? No.

Speaker 4  05:02
What? Wedding. And, yeah, we go way back for him to invite me.

Bill Clearfield  05:08
I wanted to know if they, you know, they made, they made, you know, like, you know, do things that they did. Like it like an animal house.

Unknown Speaker  05:18
Remember those animal house.

Bill Clearfield  05:21
It was, it was, it was a movie about the fraternity in the 60s.

Unknown Speaker  05:26
We focus mainly on medical missions. And so me and Dr naryo would go to, you know,

Bill Clearfield  05:36
you know, we had a conference here at the beginning of December, and Dr Nario let his hair down at the end of the day, it was a side of side of him. We don't usually see usually. Is that

Unknown Speaker  05:47
a good thing? I don't know. Yeah, it's a good thing.

Bill Clearfield  05:53
We always thought you were like an automaton or a robot or something. But, you know, you and holosa, let your hair down. I got video. I got videos of houses dancing, which is, I probably, you know, probably we were some blackmail money. It's at some point or another.

Speaker 3  06:11
Well, it's not like doing our fraternity days. I tell you that.

Unknown Speaker  06:16
No, I wasn't there, so I don't know.

Speaker 3  06:19
You probably will lose respect for my name if you knew

Unknown Speaker  06:25
you're assuming I had any in the first place.

Unknown Speaker  06:28
Hey, I'm joining the club

Bill Clearfield  06:32
you're joining. What club you're up? It's your it's your turn here.

Speaker 3  06:38
We'll see. We'll see. We have a big meeting tomorrow. So, yeah, we're going to get you some Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  06:44
I can't, I can't wait. And Christy, Christy's all excited, too. So what you're doing? So, so Doctor Nario is the vice president of the I don't even know what the official name I got. I finally got a diploma. It only took six years. Nevada board of homeopathic medical examiners actually got my diploma. I finally got my MD degree. My mother would be very happy. I only took 49 years to get that right. I'm finally an MD. Just leave the age out in front of it, that's all. So it only took you guys six years to get around to getting me the certificate, but I finally got it.

Speaker 3  07:22
We want to make you wait, and maybe you made me wait. Yeah, I don't know

Unknown Speaker  07:29
if you can see it. Here it

Unknown Speaker  07:31
is. Oh, wow, you're a big shot. Look at that.

Bill Clearfield  07:32
It's that homeopathic medical doctor. Amazing. Can you see that? Yeah, yeah, that's right. And don't you forget it,

Speaker 3  07:43
since you mentioned that. So we're opening up our channels here for integrative practitioners who actually wants to do just tele medicine in Nevada. So we got, so here's, here's the big loop, Dr killerfield, I got the Andrew Well Integrative Medicine Center to chime in on this. So they're

Speaker 2  08:02
gonna they're a little muffled when you're you're talking here, it's a little hard. Oh, well

Speaker 3  08:07
meaning, I spoke to the Andrew Well integrative medicine program and University of Arizona, so they're interested in jumping in to do integrative medicine consults online with us, giving them online licensing to do it with them. So we're going to have a big group jumping in.

Bill Clearfield  08:26
Alright, good. So in two weeks, two weeks, Doctor Klausner and I are in two weeks, not next week's program, but in two weeks, Doctor Klausner and I are going to be doing a case history, by the way, nice, very, very interesting young lady, and it covers a lot of what we we lot of the basics of what we do. So we're going to, and we're trying to, trying to, hopefully we can get her on if she's not too shy, but obviously it'll be anonymous if she doesn't want us to mention

Unknown Speaker  08:54
her. So is she managed by both of you guys,

Bill Clearfield  08:58
managed by him, and he asked me to consult, and when I saw I actually haven't, haven't talked to her yet, but when I saw the information, I said, this would be because we've been asked, been asked for case histories. We it was, it was well, well received. You know, it's a great case. So, so we'll, we'll be doing that

Speaker 3  09:22
well, we're getting educate, more educational here in a little bit creative on how we deliver education.

Bill Clearfield  09:28
And next week, by the way, I know, usually I tell you at the end, but next week, we actually have one of the pioneers in in bioidentical hormone therapy, will be on Eldred. Eldred Taylor, you know him? No, who's that? Yeah, he's, he is one of the, one of the superstars, early, early, early, early, he was with John Lee. And was it John Lee? Was that? Who it was? Carol Peterson always mentions, Oh, yeah. And he was one of the early, early, early ones. He's on, he's on view medi all the time. And I contacted him through there. That's like the YouTube for doctors, for medical people. And he's, he is. He was actually one of my first teachers, way back when, at a 4m

Unknown Speaker  10:18
says she is. He older than Pam Smith. He's

Bill Clearfield  10:20
old. He's he's even older than me. Oh, okay, so yeah. So I mean, I think I took my first class there in 2006 or 2007 somewhere around there, and he was one of the teachers. He was one of the first teachers.

Unknown Speaker  10:34
So alright, well, everybody look out for that.

Unknown Speaker  10:37
Yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  10:38
we should get autographs

Bill Clearfield  10:40
before, before we get started, we have back in the house, back home, where he belongs. Joel Peters, oh,

Unknown Speaker  10:49
it's the beard. Finally,

Bill Clearfield  10:50
finally, yes, the beard of knowledge. His beard is back. The beard of knowledge is back. Amen, let me show so. So let us Doctor Boko, I know it sounds like a lot of chit chat, but we are about to begin. And so Dr Nario, thank you for being with us as always, and we always start with a tip of the week, because some of us are too lazy to go go back to school. And so Dr Nario fills us in on what he's been learning at the Arizona integrative medicine fellowship.

Speaker 3  11:25
Alright, so this topic is probably a good introduction for our ketamine discussion, and it's probably one of I always hear this from John. So John Burgess, I hope you're here. You're going to be hearing this leak or Tip of the Week. I kind of dedicate this to you. So today's topic is Ibogaine. So I was telling you in in their university of Arizona, we're playing around with all these herbs in the last discussion that I had was kratom. So now it's Ibogaine. So a compound that is a good primer for our ketamine webinar, and also a good continuation of integrative cognitive herbal discussions, which was kratom the last time. So hippies unite, right? This is not an endorsement talk. It's a mechanism plus evidence update for clinicians who want to understand what Ibogaine keeps resurfacing in serious research conversations. So Ibogaine, let's start with the history from the Root Bark of terbina and Fay. Iboga shrub in native Central Africa is metabolized to nor Ibogaine, which is a longer acting metabolite, has been used for centuries in traditional we tree rituals for spiritual and initial initiatory purposes, inducing visionary states and serving as a rite of passage. In modern context, a pivotal moment came in 1962 when Howard lots of an opiate user discovered its potential to interrupt addiction, leading to a US patent in 1985 for its use in treating opioid dependence. However, due to the safety concerns and lack of large scale trials, it was classified as schedule one substance in the US in 1970 halting mainstream research, it has a long half life, up to 72 hours, and contributes to sustained effects, effects onsets around 30 minutes or three hours post ingestion, peaking in a dream like introspective state lasting 24 hours, following by reflective after effects. So low doses access stimulants and higher doses are psychedelics. So it is pharma, polypharmacologic, NMD antagonism, like where ketamine works will be explained later on by Dr Boko, a Kappa and new opioid receptor modulator, serotonergic effects, dopaminergic normalization and even increasing Neurotrophic signaling through BDNF, GDnf, in clinical models and clinically, this looks like a stage shift rather than a single pathway intervention. So best evidence remains in addiction interruption. Ibogaine's primary investigated benefit use is in the substance use disorders, particularly opioid use disorder, where it rapidly alleviates withdrawal symptoms and cravings. Here's the thing, here's a clicker in a single dose, so potentially resetting addictive pathways via neuroplasticity. So Marsh et al, 2018 there's an observational study that actually showed acute opiate withdrawal, suppression, reduced cravings lasting for weeks to months. Effects even correlate with nor Ibogaine levels. Brown and Alper et al, 2017 reviews of human observational studies showing decreased substance abuse, psychological insight and trauma processing and highly variable durability. So TBI and PTSD a 2024, standard Stanford study of 30 veterans showed an 8% reduction in PTSD symptoms. So Joel, I think, advocates for this one month post treatment with improvements in depression and functioning when combined with magnesium for cardiac protection. So the safety problems with Ibogaine is actually related to cardiac toxicity, particularly Qt prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias. So important emerging work here, Stanford affiliated pre clinical trials and research explored magnesium co administration to blood the Ibogaine induction to the prolongation and magnesium appears to stabilize the cardiac repolarization pathways implicated in Ibogaine toxicity. So key point here is this is experimental, not a green light. It highlights that risk mitigation is an active research area, not cell science, so Iboga gain still requires EKG screening, electrolyte optimization, strict exclusion criteria and administration must occur in supervised medical environments. So their emerging case reports in 2025, to 2026, MS, there are two patients treated in a Mexican clinic showed 71% lesion volume reduction, improve diffusion metrics and motor gains. So it also demonstrated cortical and subcortical plasticity and functional improvement for Parkinson's a single case report, reducing tremors improve motor control and quality of life. Proposed mechanism, again, dopaminergic modulation and GDnf signaling. So this do not establish efficacy, but they reinforce ibogaine's neuro circuit modifying capacity. So takeaways, Ibogaine is best viewed as a neuroplastic disruptor, not a longevity therapy, a high risk low infrastructure compound, a window into what rapid neural reorganization can really look like. So again, Ibogaine shows us what's biologically possible, not yet was clinically scalable. So that's our league of the league.

Bill Clearfield  16:26
Well, I don't know what's going on down there in Tucson last week. It was great. On this week, it's ibergain. Can Ayahuasca be far behind?

Speaker 3  16:34
Hey, I can do one of those. But the thing here is, why I begin with chosen ketamine also works in the specific pathway of the NMD, a receptor. So maybe that's a good preview. And I said to you, this is dedicated to John, who advocates for Ibogaine.

Speaker 5  16:51
I Yeah, we're in the middle of the Ibogaine for a long time. We have a clinic in the Caribbean, and the bombs, if you want to do it gets dangerous in Canada used to be totally legal, now it's totally illegal. So something's going on with the whole and the government proved the Ibogaine worked like 3040, years ago, and then they shut it up and sent the researchers to Texas and cut a deal. They are now the directors of the brain bank, the Kennedy brain bank in Miami. So anyway, the Ibogaine is happening. We had a substitute herbal formula that cost about 1% as much as Ibogaine. If we did Ibogaine, it's 10,000 bucks. If we did the other formula we had that was developed on your west coast there, we could get people off opiates, heroin, almost every time, at 1% of the cost, under $100 now, the people who manufactured and distributed that in California have been told to disappear, and they have and the product. So it's not just that Ibogaine works. There other things that work that have been suppressed. And as far as ayahuasca, the head of the Ayahuasca Church of Hawaii, which does it legitimately and ceremonially, the way you should, because it should be done right and set and setting be safe, I spoke to him and asked if he'd be willing to Come to Reno and do a formal Ayahuasca treatment there, and it's legal because the Supreme Court said so, and he's the head of the church, and he does it right, I know. And if you guys want to do Ayahuasca in Reno, we could probably do that, and it could probably be done, right. It's not to be played around with Thank you very much.

Speaker 6  18:42
And if I may chime in real quick. Dr bunker might know about this. The N waves and war movie that came out a few years back is in connection to Marcus Capone. And Marcus Capone and his wife started the vets and their vets organization, I don't know if it was an offshoot from working with Stanford, but they now take mostly special operators to Mexico to do this treatment. MD and a and Ibogaine was huge with their organization, but the Stanford pilot research project was three. Three of them were the main characters, extreme multiple tours. And then there was a few others. They go through the, you know, questioning and so forth and all that. But it was, I believe, like Dr Nerio was saying, it was the I will gain, that was approved, and that is what I believe, what Stanford is studying, and I have a feeling Dr Boco knows about it so and then I've heard that the VA in Georgia is doing psilocybin treatment. I don't know which one, but it's, it's, they're doing what they can as fast as they can. I believe, kind of

Speaker 5  20:13
the well, the Ayahuasca treatment is very powerful, but if it's done safely and correctly, with observation, it's very safe. And if you guys want to have the real deal, because the two plants that are mixed with the Ayahuasca are grown in Hawaii, it's totally legal, and you could probably do it without having to travel, you know, 28 people to Hawaii. It's a lot of money.

Speaker 2  20:39
Agree? I All right, so we got a crowd, yeah, here you go. A bunch of old fronts here, huh?

Unknown Speaker  20:57
That's what I'm saying. What's

Speaker 2  20:58
going on down there at that is that just a front that fellowship down there? Yeah, okay. Well, always enlightening. Dr Nario

Unknown Speaker  21:13
ruffled all their feathers. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  21:17
Anyway, so our speaker this week is Dr Erwin Boco. I apologize for the for the typos there in the headlines, but I did get it in. If anybody read the you know the bio, his bio, I did get it right there, a board certified family physician. He brings a deep commitment to whole person, trauma, informed care and evidence based innovation. He graduated with honors with Doctor Nario, apparently at the University of Santo Tomas, College of Medicine and Surgery in 2005 he was a family practice residency graduate at the University of Texas Science Center at Houston in 2009 he spent four years in private practice, He then joined the Kaiser Permanente Northern California in 2015 he was a leader of leadership roles there on behavioral health, trauma informed systems and community advocacy. He was a clinical medical supervisor, a regional director for Northern California Family Medicine, child abuse services. He was the program lead for intimate partner and family violence screening and program lead for adverse child events screening in 2023 he recognized the critical gap and access to effective treatments for complex medical mental health conditions. He found founded Zen ketamine, an integrative treatment center providing evidence based therapies for treatment resistant depression, PTSD, anxiety disorders and chronic pain. He completed an advanced fellowship training in ketamine therapeutics at the integrative psychiatry Institute. He's a member of the American Society of KETAMINE, physicians, practitioners and psychotherapists. And he likes yoga, meditation, consciousness and self awareness. He uses emerging neuroscience based interventions and trauma informed approaches integrative medicine. So with that, Dr BOCO, thank you for being with us. We're happy to have you, have you here. And again, I do apologize for the for the typo there, so I'll get it right the next time.

Speaker 4  23:33
Thank you. Dr Clearfield, thank you, Dr nyre, for the invitation. Happy to be here as a speaker to talk about KETAMINE and treatment resistant depression. I just shared my slide, and I wanted to we got them able to see it. Yep, all right, let's go ahead. First disclosure is I have no financial relationships with any pharmaceutical company other than being the founder and owner of ZENKETAMINE, any patient information I may be sharing during this presentation is for educational purposes. In compliance with privacy regulations. For our objectives, we're going to learn what treatment resistant depression means. We're also going to learn more about KETAMINE today, background history, how it works and how we use it in mood disorders. For this particular talk, specifically in treatment resistant depression, I'm also going to present some clinical cases that we we share in terms of what our experience is in our clinic, and some real world data and outcomes. There's some really exciting data from established clinics that we were able to gather during the recent global KETAMINE conference in Austin this year. So the problem of depression is a big problem. I'm sure all the providers in this room are aware of this problem. The prevalence has only increased after covid from 19% to now 29% it's worse in certain population groups, and usually there's overlapping comorbid conditions, anxiety, PTSD, being the top two substance use disorders is also a part of it as well. And our younger population is not immune. We know, especially after covid, that there's been a surge of mental health crisis in our adolescent population. Special groups, such as the LGBTQ, are especially more susceptible. They're five times more likely to attempt suicides during the pandemic, we now have high level population based understanding of how good we are or how limited we are in helping patients with treatment resistant Depression or major depressive disorder in 2015 the largest population based study, which is the Sardi trial, was published through the NIH and what we learned is that for patients that have true clinical depression based on the best practices and clinical guidelines and practice that we use right now, the current best practices, we pair them with a therapist, and we usually start them with antidepressants. We now know that the response rates for the first time somebody tries an antidepressant is only about 27.5% Furthermore, for every trial after the first one, we now understand that the response incrementally decreases. So for the second trial, after usually trying eight to 12 weeks of robust timeframes and adjusting the doses to moderate or high doses, we give the patients a second trial of antidepressants. If the first one doesn't work the second one, the response decreases further to 21% on the third trial, it further decreases to 16% by the time the patient has a fourth trial of antidepressant, the response rate is less than 7% and even if you add this all up, it's About 65% to 70% about 30% of patients will not respond to our traditional approaches using SSRIs and SNRIs, and these cases we refer to as treatment resistant depression cases, we also learned that it didn't matter who was prescribing the antidepressants, it could be the psychiatrist or the patient's primary care doctors. More than half of the patients with depression are being treated by their primary providers, primary care providers in the US, and so it didn't matter. So this is a big problem, and I'm sure a lot of you are experiencing this in your practices. You know patients coming to you telling you how frustrated they are. They tried multiple medications, nothing helped, you know, they jumped from doctor to doctor. Nobody can help them, and they kind of surrendered and just kind of powering through life, you know, which is really a sorry state to be in. The FDA defined treatment resistant depression as failure to respond to two or more antidepressant regimens despite adequate dose and duration in adherence to treatment. Adequate duration is usually defined as a period between eight to 12 weeks of trial, which usually is when the SSRIs and antidepressants are known to kind of peak in terms of response times. I'm going to share my first case. This is Ef he's a 40 year old musician. He was referred by his by his wife, because of very long history of severe depression and anxiety. He lives in constant fear. He's always overwhelmed. Getting out of bed is a struggle. Has no appetite and has actually lost 15 pounds in the last year. When we saw him, he didn't have any active suicidal ideations. He did report having some passive thoughts that he had no intention of carrying out. He's tried multiple SSRI's Over the past several years, I think he's tried over seven. Cannot recall the names, and did not tolerate the side effects very well. He's had prior experience with Ayahuasca several years ago, and recalls and reports that he didn't like it because of the side effects. He was, I think, having some really bad vomiting that is usually associated with with Ayahuasca. And he reports that he but he felt great afterwards, and it lasted for for a while, until the depression kind of came back. He's also had prior history of alcohol addiction and drug addiction, including opiates, cocaine, methamphetamine, crack, MDMA, but he's been sober for seven years, and he's attending Narcotics Anonymous and some support groups. Other than that, he's got a fatty liver, some elevated blood pressure, but never really diagnosed with hypertension. So when we started treating him, we started tracking his depression and his anxiety scores. So we usually use a PHQ nine patient health questionnaire, which is a standard Depression Scale. There's many others that can be used, HMD, Madras, we use, PHQ nine. The colors on the top represent the severity of the Depression. The bright red means very severe. Orange is moderate to severe. The middle yellow is moderate. The mild yellow is mild, and green is remission range, which is the goal that we like to hit. The vertical black lines represents the treatment of the infusions that the patient received. And the one on the bottom is the anxiety. And we use the GAD seven scoring system to kind of track anxieties as well. And you can see this patient was an early responder, very rapid, very robust response, even after just the first session, hitting into remission and going all the way down to zero after completing his induction. This is kind of like a brief history of Ketamine. It was developed out of tweaking with PCP back in 1962 when they were kind of tweaking PCP and developing PCP as a potential anesthesia medication, but it was very toxic, and so they tried to refine it. And Ketamine was born. Patent was formed in 1966 and was started being used around that time. And then it was approved by the FDA, officially as a Dissociative anesthetic around 1970 and since then, became generic and has been used in the surgery world as an anesthetic agent. And in 19 late, 1990s that's really when, you know, the first kind of observations of patients getting out of surgery, reporting that, Hey, Doc, you know, my suicidal 's better, my depression 's lifted, my anxiety 's better. That's when we started paying attention and in 2000 Robert Berman from Yale published the first randomized control trial, and this was a landmark study. 's probably one of the most referenced articles in the KETAMINE space. And he examined and randomized controlled experimentation nine patients placebo versus KETAMINE control, and he gave only one IV infusion, measured their depression scores using the HMD questionnaire 's and what he found was all of the patients that received one IV infusion improved their depression scores by greater than 50% and that happened within a window of 72 hours after the infusion. So it was very rapid and very robust. And not only that, the response lasted for one to two weeks before the patient reported that the depression symptoms started to kind of relapse or recur. And since then, there's been a growth of bigger and bigger studies, and I think right now, we're already sitting at over 160

Speaker 4  33:29
well designed, randomized, controlled trials that are placebocontrolled, and some are specific to KETAMINE itself. Some are specific to 's KETAMINE, which is the intranasal version of the 's isomer, you know, as well. And there's some that uses other modalities, like oral 's, you know, as well. And depending on which studies you you look at, the response rates are pretty impressive. And so some would report somewhere in the in the range of 65% response rates, some in the 85% response rates, but they kind of fall around this general number of around 80% and so this is kind of like the general accepted response rates within the KETAMINE specialty community, in 2021 our friends at the North our Canadian friends, formed a task force to do a systematic review of all electronic database researches that is available, which is the Canadienne network for mood and anxiety Traitements Task Force. And not only that, they kind of categorize the medical evidence into different tiers or different levels, level one being the highest level, and what they found was among the data that they found, what was consistent is that even just one single IV Ketamine is a level one, evidence for efficacy in adults with treatment resistant depression. They also look at studies that use multiple infusion 's, and it showed a level three evidence, which is still pretty good. Then they looked at other trials that are non IV treatments, so non IV formulation, so some are intranasal, intramuscular, some are oral. All other trials were categorized as level three and level four when they compare when they compared single versus multiple infusions, they found that those that received multiple infusions had higher response rates and higher remission rates than those with single infusion 's in 2015 there's a large VA study by Dr Sophia Albott in the Midwest. I think it was in Indianapolis, and she specifically was interested in using IV Ketamine for veterans with Majeur depressive disorder with a Comorbid PTSD disorder. And what they found was pretty impressive for some reason, if, if a patient has both MDD as well as PTSD, two very complex cases in the same patient, it seems like the response rates was actually higher. What he what she found was that the response rate for TRD was 93.3% and in about 80% of these patients, the PTSD went into full remission, which kind of led into the eventual adoption of IV Ketamine into the national protocol and clinical practice guidelines for the VA as part of their tools in helping veterans with treatment resistant depression and severe suicidal ideation. So the VA was the first government institution to recognize its value, and has since then included it and actually covers the Traitements 100% so like, we're in contract with the VA, and we're proud to serve our veterans. And it's really cool to see the VA kind of step up in this space and cover these treatments for our veterans since then, I think this, this clinical practice guidelines, and it's public information. You can Google this. This is usually updated over a few years or so. The most the most recent update was last October of 2025 and has been the basis of a lot of other advancements in terms of policy making and just increasing the dialog and awareness, you know, in in the field. In two years ago, the Colorado Medicaid started covering IV Ketamine as well in that state. So we think that the the arc of movement is towards adoption, and when once Medicare grandfather 's or decides to cover it all private insurances should cover IV Ketamine right now, because it's considered off label, most commercial insurance don't cover Ketamine Traitements right now. The Yeah, the current gold standard for treatment resistant depression is electroconvulsive therapy, which has been around for 's seven decades, but has not been well adapted because of several reasons, stigma from patient perception, side effects, high technical need in terms of training. So because you have to be associated with the hospital, and it can only be done in hospital because you have to be sedated for ECT, or conscious SSRI's. So in 2023 it was challenged, which has not been challenged in a long time. So it was the first time. It was challenging. A long time, it was called the ELEKT D trial, so electroconvulsive therapy versus Ketamine in treatment resistant depression. And it was a big multi center trial that involved Baylor College of Medicine, John Hopkins, Cleveland Clinic, Mount Sinai and Yale University of Medicine, and it was an open label randomized noninferiority trial. They wanted to see if it was inferior to ect. And the design of the experiments actually had a special bias for ECT, because the patients that were selected was already under the notion that they were going to get ECT, it was just that they were given the option to try this other alternative treatment option. What they found was Ketamine is not inferior to ECT, and in fact, it was found to be superior in three of the five centers in measuring the primary outcome, which is the improvement of the Depression. And the secondary outcome was actually a measurement of the side effects, and they found that IV Ketamine did not have any of the side effects usually associated with ECT and usually 's cognitive issues, memory, memory loss and focus and concentration and up to date. For the last 30 years, KETAMINE has been the most extensively researched antidepressant by far. Case two. So we have a retired, 68 year old female who's had a long history of depression that's been categorized as treatment resistant since she was 18 years old. Had a lot of abuse growing up, also had PTSD. Also have history of substance abuse, but has been sober for the past six years. Has good support in narcotics, anonymous, with the church and support meetings. You know as well, she 's tried multiple antidepressants, 1234678, more than 10 and in robust timeframes, but when I saw her, her current antidepressant regimen at the time that her Psychiatrie put her on was DULOXETINE, and she was taking 60 milligrams once a day. And she started this from two years ago, and she reports, like most patients, you know, kind of help, but it didn't really significantly lifted her depression. She also tried TMS before, which is Transcranial Magnetic stimulators and and these are one of the newer treatments that we, we have, you know, in in the psychiatry space, you know as well that's noninvasive, interventional Psychiatrie treatment, but it didn't help for her, and she's been on and off therapy for many years. She doesn't have very great family support. She's divorced, lives alone, but you know, she's active in church. When we started treating with her, within four weeks, she achieved the remission range, which was amazing, and she's a good demonstration of somebody who has PTSD that also had great response. You know, with her PTSD, we measure PTSD with PCL five, which is a robust questionnaire that has specific questions regarding hyper vigilance and hyper avoidance symptoms, a score of about 3533 35 's about moderate. 60 for her, 's is very severe, and it went down to nine, so very, very mild, almost close to remission. Very life changing for her.

Speaker 4  42:17
So what is KETAMINE? KETAMINE, it's an old drug that's that was approved as an anesthetic back in the 70s. It's made up of two six carbon rings, the cyclohelon ring with the ketone over there, and the chlorophenol ring with the benzene ring over there on the top, and then you have the phenyl amino handle in the middle. And in nature, all molecules have, you know, isomers, so chemical isomer so you have a right and a left side mirror image, or the dextro and the 's isomer. And Racemic KETAMINE 's equal parts 50% right side and equal parts 50% left side. And that comes into play because later on, you know, because it's such a an old drug, a generic drug, a cheap drug, there's no financial incentive for any pharmaceutical company to kind of take it on and do the formal FDA three phase clinical trials, you know, to try it on for a new indication other than anesthesia. So in this case, either mood disorders or chronic pain syndromes, because we also use it for chronic pain syndrome 's but Jansen in 2019 was able to separate the right and the left isomer and isolated the 's isomer, the left side isomer, packaged it into a nasal spray. And, you know, 's KETAMINE and the brand name is Travail, and now they are able to give it and covered by insurance. Although it's a very expensive drug, it crosses the blood brain barrier very easily, and the half life is very quick. 's about seven to 15 minutes. So the liver 's the main Oren that breaks it down, so it's very efficient in breaking it down, so much so that oral versions of KETAMINE, the bioavailability 's only 10% because the first liver pass the liver destroys 90% of the medicine. And that's why IV 's superior, because we bypass that and we get the Biol bioavailability up to 100% intranasal 's about 15 to 48% bioavailability. The intramuscular 's about 90 to 95% CYP inhibitors like grape grape juice can kind of slow down liver metabolism, so it can kind of increase, you know, your levels and recovery times, you know, as well. But most patients, after we stop the infusion pump, usually, you know, it's no longer in the bloodstream within seven to 15 minutes, even though the mind is still kind of having, you know, an experience, and it takes another 20 minutes for them to kind of have a soft landing back, you know, to their pre treatment state before we safely discharge them, after assessing that they are safe to be discharged within about 30 minutes after we stop the pump. And then it's after being destroyed in the liver, it's eliminated and Excreted in the kidneys and in the urine, and hence that kind of bladder irritation phenomenon that we usually see more so in the in the oral vehicle. 's not so much in the IV, because we don't use very high doses in the IV, because we get to the 100% bioavailability dimension of it, one way that oral formulations bypass that is really increasing the oral doses to have higher levels reach the brain. But as a consequence, you know, higher doses also get to the bladder, and that's when you get into problems of like bladder, ulcer 's, bleeding, ulceration 's and whatnot. There's different ways to give it. IV, Intramuscular, yeah, the ESKETAMINE Intranasal, you get some compounded Intranasal versions as well that that can be done by compounding PHARMACOKINETICS, the one that's branded FDA approved, is created by Janssen. And then you have the oral version. 's rapid dissolvent tablets, trophies, capsules. There's some subcutaneous ones and some patches, but they're really not worth mentioning. Different modalities can get you into different outcomes. In our treatment center, we focus on the best outcomes, and so that's why we only offer these three modalities. And out of the three modalities, we really focus on IV or the Intranasal version. And the reason for that is that it doesn't really make sense to get the Intramuscular version if you have access to the IV there are some special considerations in patients who are, for example, cancer patients who may be hard sticks, or patients with needle phobia. 's that they don't like the idea of having an IV cat lier sitting there. So Intramuscular might, might be a good option. So in our clinic, it's been running for a couple years. I've only maybe had two patients do Intramuscular injections. And this is just really to kind of like visually separate the difference between the two. I would think of ESKETAMINE as kind of like a derivative of the original IV KETAMINE. It's the left side version of the IV KETAMINE, which has both right and left side. The cool thing about it is that, because it's FDA approved, it's covered by insurance, but it's only FDA approved for two conditions, which is one treatment resistant depression and two Suicidality. So you can't use it for PTSD, can't use it for chronic pain, can't use it for anxiety, can't use it for other mood disorders, but for ID KETAMINE, because we're using an OP label, we just follow the evidence, and so we have greater flexibility in terms of conditions that it has demonstrated to provide response in value when, when the FDA approved the ESKETAMINE 2019 it was approved as an adjunct to antidepressants, which means that you have to take it with an antidepressant maintenance medication. Last year, in January, it was approved as the first drug and only drug approved for treatment resistant depression X monotherapy, which is a big, big deal. So ECT even requires, you know, antidepressants adjunct TMS requires antidepressant adjuncts, and so it has demonstrated great response that for patients that have tried, you know, 1015, 20 antidepressants, does not want to be on antidepressants anymore because of side effects or intolerability. We now have the option of either weaning them off and just be on the ESKETAMINE as a maintenance medication. The old kind of understanding of depression as solely a chemical imbalance problem is no longer sufficient. We now believe that there's also a wiring problem. Inpatients who have suffered from depression, when they do autopsies, we find that the brain mass is actually smaller by almost up to 30% in some cases and at the cellular level, what we find is that the branches, you know, the dendritic spines in the secondary branches, are either decrease or decrease in girth or kind of less you know as well. And we know that exposures to chronic stress, chronic toxic stress, chronic trauma, can also cause a phenomenon called dendritic pruning, and so damage is happening in the brain.

Speaker 4  50:01
This slide, I just wanted to kind of demonstrate in a simple slide how you know KETAMINE works in the brain, and we'll deep dive a little bit into some of the chemistry. So KETAMINE, either by any modality, IV, Intramuscular, Intranasal, eventually gets to the brain and attaches to the NMDA receptor on the inhibitory neuron that kind of controls whether Glutamate is going to be released or not. Once KETAMINE attaches, Glutamate is then released from 's pre synaptic vesicles flooding the extracellular space, and now has the opportunity to interact with the receptors of the postsynaptic terminals. Okay? And Glutamate is very different from serotonin. And just to give you an idea, you know, your brain produces a lot of beautiful neurotransmitters. Serotonin is responsible for mood regulation, and it's it's about 2% of what your brain produces. Glutamate is also responsible for for mood regulation, and it's about 70 to 80% of what your brain produces. So it has reach, okay, so, and the current kind of understanding in patients with, you know, treatment resistant mood disorders, PTSD, depression or anxiety, is that we have several mood centers in the brain. There's no just one area in the brain that's located, and we say that's a problem with the mood you actually have several. You have several mood centers in your lower animal brain, your limbic system. You have several mood centers in your higher levels of the brain, your prefrontal cortex. You even have several mood centers in your brain stem as well. And the current understanding is that these mood centers are either dormant, lazy, you know, not functioning 100% or sleeping. And what happens when Glutamate is released is that it wakes it all up, and it does it very rapidly and very quickly. There's several receptors in the post synaptic terminal, 's AMPA, NMDA, you also have NMDA receptors. In that postsynaptic terminal, you have BDNF receptors. And ultimately, this is a good kind of a boring slide on the biochemistry aspect of it, but if I can get you excited about this picture, this is it, because when once KETAMINE is activating and releasing the Glutamate, it activates all of these receptors on this wall that's a vertical wall, your NMDA receptors, your AMPA receptors, open. 's up your calcium channels, that causes depolarization of the cellular membrane that leads into intracellular signaling with your protein kinases, elongation factor, 2k your BDNF, your Akt, ERK, all of this is just designed to reach mTOR, okay? And I want to just pause there, because what I've just explained to you is that KETAMINE is just really a high level signal to try to reach mTOR, okay? And that's the central message, okay? Because once mTOR is activated, that is it. So we want to reach mTOR, because mTOR is the growth switch. Now mTOR is present in all of our cells, including the brain cells. I think a few, a few months ago, there was a gentleman that gave a talk about longevity, aging and rapamycin and how it affects mTOR. MTOR means mechanistic target of rapamycin. So this is the one that's being targeted by rapamycin in the in the longevity space, you know, in the age aging science space, and they try to switch off mTOR, because when you do, it forces, you know, cells into autophagy and so but in this case, in the brain, you actually want to switch it on. And I think this is the counter balance to that kind of understanding and brings the yin to the yang of all of our, you know, human experience, where it really depends on the situation and what your needs are. And so there are certain situations where you want to slow down mTOR. There's certain situations where you might want to activate it when you need it. Similar to athletes, you know, there's a, there's a good question, you know, is, is, is a fast heart rate? Important? Well, it depends, you know, if you're resting, you want a slow heart rate. If, if you're exercising, you want a fast heart rate. So the athlete, the very good athlete can control both, right? And so it's the same thing. So mTOR, Once activated, it's a protein, but we also kind of look at it as a pathway, because it just kind of activates all these beautiful growth in the brain cells. It forms new Synapses, new dendritic spines, that helps grow and connect the ones that are kind of weak. It helps make it stronger. It repairs it, it rebuilds it okay, and it helps with improved mood and thinking. Because if you have better Synapses, think of your brain cell. It only has three branches. It can only connect to three other brain cells, you know, process and communicate tomorrow. It now has 12, you know, branches so it can talk to 12 other brain cells. So perception can change, the way you find meaning in things can change, you know, as well. Okay, so mTOR is the main kind of foreman in the construction of the brain cells, and actually in all cells. And so when it is switched, it's like, the analogy I heard that was beautiful, is like, if there's a storm that damages your brain or damages the city, roofs are toppled. You know, bridges are destroyed. Trees topple down your your antidepressants are like the small crews coming in and doing nail work and patchwork. MTOR is like the big contractors. They come in, they can build a bridge in a day. That's how that's how big and fast mTOR Akt, you know. So mTOR is it, and this just kind of brings it all together. KETAMINE being a high level signal that tries to reach mTOR through Glutamate surge. And the Glutamate surge reaches your postsynaptic terminals and activates some of the receptors there, NMDA, AMPA, and actually their NMDA and AMPA are not separate receptors that work separately. They actually work together, and that leads to intracellular protein kinases getting activated. That leads to the mTOR getting switch on, BDNF protein receptors are getting activated. That further amplifies mTOR activation that leads to all of these beautiful things happening, and we see it. So in clinical studies, we found that one IV infusion can stop Suicidality within four to five hours, brief stop, and in some emergency rooms in VA Hospital in the Midwest, they already have protocols for IV KETAMINE, for Suicidality, because it's quicker than waiting for your admission room. Okay, and they last. They last seven to 10 days. The whole premise of the old problem of why we try to keep patients on hold. You know, 5150 's is because the old tools that we had, SSRI's, take so long to kick in. That's why we have to keep them for a few days. Now, some of you may have alluded to some of this, but I just wanted to briefly mention this, and this will all kind of, hopefully Tye down and kind of combine everything. There's another receptor in the postsynaptic terminal that is very powerful, and it's your serotonin to a receptor. There's different kinds of serotonin receptors. You have your one A, you have a two a, you have your 2c your your classic antidepressants. You know, your Prozac, your Celexa, usually blocks your serotonin transporters. What happens is that it increases your serotonin in the extracellular space, and they have a special affinity to the one, a protein, which is different from the two, a protein the two, a protein of the of the serotonin has two arms when it's activated. One is the psychedelic pathway, which leads to cortical activation, excitation and hyper arousal, and this is where you know the psychedelic pharmacology happens. And the second one leads to mTOR, okay, and what are the strongest serotonin to a receptor 's that you know exist, your classic Psychedelics, your Ayahuasca, DMT, L's LSD, you know Ibogaine, which is five meter DMT, right? So, and there's even studies about Ayahuasca having a greater window in terms of mTOR activation, in terms of Neuroplasticity, longer than KETAMINE. So the window for KETAMINE 's actually within the Neuroplasticity starts 24 hours after one infusion, and it continues for 72 hours in Ayahuasca, it can be two months with one treatment, and in some reports, it has been shown to even extend up to 15 to 18 months. In some cases, okay.

Speaker 4  59:43
So this is where there's a parallelism between KETAMINE and your classic Psychedelics, because they both kind of try to reach mTOR. And the key thing to kind of remember here is that while they have some similarities, they're not the same. So KETAMINE does not have any action to the five HTN, a serotonin to a receptor. There was initial kind of theories that it might have a weak serotonergic effect, a weak dopamine effect, but now we know there's not the way that KETAMINE kind of has that psychedelic experience is not the same as classic Psychedelics does. So the way classic Psychedelics provides the psychedelic experience for the patients is through activation of the psychedelic receptor, five HTN, a that leads to the excitation through the psychedelic perceptual arm. KETAMINE does it through high level, large scale brain network disruption, through the default mode network, through the salience network, through thalamocortical gating and prefrontal limbic coupling. So even though you have psychedelic phenomenology, it's not the same as psychedelic PHARMACOKINETICS. This is really where the purists will say KETAMINE is not a true psychedelic. It's a Dissociative agent, but they do share that common trait of trying to reach mTOR, and that's why you see the same kind of improvements that you see in mood disorders in trauma with the use of Psychedelics because they both activate mTOR, okay, and there's a lot of more protein 's research and kinases that happens at this level. Some people pour their whole life energies researching just one protein, one receptor, NMDA REMS, REMS, REMS, REMS, REMS and imbeds. Iqbal, just so we can ABL ablr, IMLS, thiso cascida belts, odgwanlate is it's argont in thermognt Wels, welsenadeallen, Wels welsoibly, it exactly. It's not a number. We know too little 's not good. We know too much is harmful. Too much Glutamate actually harms the brain and destroys, you know, the brain, brain cells. And it's not just an amount. It's also in terms of how efficient is it being recycled, how strong is the Glutamate affinity to the post terminal receptors. How strong is the signaling? Because, for example, NMDA, NMDA receptor, we assume that there's only one form of NMDA receptor where there's actually 43 different variations of the foldings of the NMDA and depending on what genetic tendency you have, it will dictate how strong glutamatergic to that NMDA and lead to downstream signaling, whether it's going to be weak or strong signaling. We have some unexpected players that help Glutamate, Modulators that modulating Glutamate. Roy published last year that there's a lot of GLP one receptors in the brain located in the Hypothalamus Brainstem cognitive centers. And so with the kind of growth of the of the GLP one industry, ozempic, you know, and all these other weight loss medications, patients are reporting that they're having mood improvements as well, and it's separate from the weight loss, and this is why, and it acts the same thing. And so the Glutamate is released. It increases neuronal activity. Also helps with dopamine signaling. It prevents synaptic loss and helps with neurogenesis, regulates mood and reward systems. What's another NMDA receptor molecule that you know that's been around for such a long time? Right? Nitrous oxide, laughing gas? So there's been several studies that show and actually, it's re emerging. I've been to a KETAMINE conference, and they have some people that are offering nitrous oxide, you know, as an alternative. There's studies going on right now. There's RCTs that taken place that demonstrates, you know, improvement in mood depression, with patients giving just one hour of nitrous oxide versus placebo. Okay, and there's some historical reports I think I read a few years ago, back during before World War Two, when the British was in Africa, there's a lot of increased dental visits from the soldiers because they wanted to get their nitrous oxide, because it helps fight loneliness and sadness and depression while they were away during that time. So the Neuroplasticity happens very quickly. This is my study by Wu that shows within 24 hours, you know, you have buttons growing already, and the growth continues to happen for the next 72 hours. This is pre and post. The yellow arrows are the new Dendrites forming, and it stacks, and it's and it builds. So for every treatment you have, it builds from the previous one. A very curious phenomenon happen when the brain cells are exposed, you know, to toxic stress. It's called Dendritic pruning, and so the branches Whittle out. There's less branches. The main branch kind of thins out as well after exposure to chronic stress. Two years ago, it was the first time I heard during the American Society of KETAMINE physicians conference in Austin, that KETAMINE was dubbed as the first resilience drug. They actually presented some clinical experiments, having some patients who worked in high stress environments, law enforcement, first responders, military, er, nurses and placebo arm and one IV infusion arm. They followed them for 12 months, measured burnout rates, anxiety, PTSD, depression rates. The one with the placebo arm had higher burnout rates, anxiety, depression, PTSD, and the ones with just one IV infusion stayed flat the whole time, which was amazing, but we're not there yet as a treatment Recommandations, so right now, we recommend KETAMINE as an option, as a third line option, so patients should demonstrate to have tried at least two or more prior treatment trials. First, there's a few exceptions. Suicidality 's one of them. So you can skip the line you don't need to try because, obviously, of the severity of the condition. And then law enforcement, military, you know, space, because that whole space, it's just a tougher population. They don't like to talk about it. They don't like taking antidepressant because they don't want to be seen taking antidepressants. They will be judged. There's fear of judgment. You know, their judgments will be questioned, promotion stymied. So it's a very difficult space, you know to and they probably need the most help, you know to attended some of these first responder conferences. And so for those special cases, we can offer IV KETAMINE as a first option. Case 353, year old pastry Schaff she has a history of long standing treatment resistant depression. Also has severe anxiety since age 26 severe anxiety seems to be a predictor of less response in some patients, especially the really, really severe ones, and it has been worsening for her for the past six months. She doesn't want to go to work. She also has rage. There's some family dynamic and some trauma with the family going on and repeated exposure. Still, she's tried multiple antidepressants in the past, with several more that she can't recall, including FLUOXETINE, ESCITALOPRAM, VENLAFAXINE. She's currently on BUPROPION, 300 milligrams, but hasn't significantly helped. She's tried CBT IOP, intensive outpatient programs, integration. She had a remote history of attempting suicide when she was 15 by overdosing on pills. She was finally referred to us by her Psychiatrie for treatment resistant depression, because nothing worked and and the worsening of the symptoms. When we saw her, she was in distress, but she wasn't suicidal. She was unkempt, disheveled, flat affect. She was accompanied by her 's husband, and the husband was worried and concerned, because in her, in his words, I feel like I'm losing my wife.

Speaker 4  1:08:47
Okay, so we started her right away with IV induction series, and the first thing we noted was from the very severe depression and anxiety symptoms, it went down to the moderate range. And then she continued on to do weekly boosters for another month. And then we transitioned her into ESKETAMINE and SPRAVATO, because that's more that's a better long term kind of sustainable option, because it's covered by insurance. And you know when they say that healing is not a straight line, this is a good kind of example case for that. It took her longer than other patients, but after six months, from April to about December, she finally reached reached remission, and that was a joy to see. So sometimes I see these like ups and downs. Part of it is because it's a complex case. Part of is because some patients, you need to understand they're still kind of exposed to some of the triggers, some of the stressors. Some can be from family members, some can be from work situations, and they need help kind of processing that. But sometimes they can't incorporate new strategies if getting out of bed is a struggle. So one of the key things that KETAMINE does is that it can change their state very rapidly, so that they can at least have the capacity to have better problem solving to their situation or be more open to lifestyle changes Wels changes that helps build that resilience over time. And so now she's taking Korean chef pastry classes. She's hiking, she's traveling. Husband 's happy with outcome and just maintaining Traitements, our protocol for treatment resistant depression is based on some of the more refined protocols provided by Akt three IPI and the CANMAT va clinical practice guidelines are also included there patient selection, inclusion and exclusion criteria is important, and so I mentioned, you know, the right patients, those that are considered treatment resistant depression and has failed two or more prior treatments. It's important to be clear about that, with a few exceptions, I mentioned earlier, pregnancy 's a contraindication, positive Psychiatrie symptoms, schizophrenia, schizoaffective mania, active mania, are all contraindications. KETAMINE wakes it up, makes it worse, and so we can't have those patients who've had prior severe allergy to KETAMINE from prior surgeries are also not good candidates. KETAMINE is unique. It's one of the anesthesia agents that you know, even if you put patients to sleep, you don't, don't need to put a tube down their throat, because it can maintain their heart 's pumping and their lungs breathing, but it can overdo it, and so it can increase, you know, blood pressures. So those with brain aneurysm 's history of intracranial bleeding are contraindicated. Severe uncontrolled hypertension, we tell them to get that under control with their PCPs first. Those with unstable, uncontrolled substance use disorders are also excluded, although it's not an absolute contraindication. If they're stable, some patients have complex backgrounds, we do take them, and there's great data, and it's used in addiction medicine, so it helps with alcohol abuse, hard drug abuse, opioid disorders, opioid use disorders as well, even cannabis use disorders. And we've seen great success in some patients, where we focused on the mood disorder. But natural progression is that that dimension of their case just naturally kind of improves and results as well, because the liver is the main organ that that eliminates it. So we do check for the liver function test. And in some patients with liver disease, we need gi clearance, the severe liver disease. Child 's Pugh type C are contraindicated because longer recovery, they can be in a deeper kind of state and medication dose adjustments. So we check liver, kidney 's urine, drug screen, pregnancy test for childbearing age women, and because it's a class three controlled medication, we also routinely check the curious report, or PDMP reports with the DOJ. So the protocol is a series of six IV infusion Traitements that is given more frequently during what 's called the induction phase, and the recommendation is to give it in non consecutive days, so usually twice a week or three times a week in some patients, but most patients, because of transportation, child care, it 's twice a week. We start with a starter dose of point five meters per kilo, and we infuse it over 40 minutes. And then, based on the first treatment, depending on how they they respond, and most patients usually tolerate it very well, we can jump into the sweet spot range between point seven to one milligram per kilo, and within that space, we can infuse it over a period of 40 to 60 minutes. The way I like to do it is I start with a point five on the on the treatment number one, infuse it over 40 minutes. Treatment number two, I can jump up to point seven, five, still over 40 minutes. Treatment number three, I stay at point seven, five, but I push the duration to 60 minutes, and then point four to treatment four to six. I can kind of titrate up or down depending on patient tolerability, physiology, vital signs and intensity of Dissociative experience, up to one milligram per kilo. In some cases where I've reached the ceiling and I feel like the response is partial or not quite there, we can actually individualize the Traitements and increase to 1.25 1.3 1.5 even the highest we have in our clinics, about 1.75 means per kilo. We avoid two and above, because that's the anesthetic range. So that's not appropriate for an outpatient setting. And the scheduling, like I mentioned, twice a week for three weeks. After they complete that, they move into the optimization or booster phase of once a week for four weeks to complete a series of 10. There's a lot of data that if you complete the 10, it pushes the response rate even higher, up to 85 to 87% there's the data from Florida, 10,000 infusions, over 1000 patients that demonstrated this, and then after that, they graduate for the IV and it becomes individualized. Some patients, they don't need Traitements anymore. They're living the best lives. You know, call us as needed if you need it. Some patients with complex cases, they do need some maintenance. If you're a patient with severe depression, PTSD, first of all, you'll know. You'll notice when you're better, because you've been living with that condition day in and day out for many years. You'll also know when it starts to creep back up, and that's when they start calling us. You know, it could be once a month for some patients, it could be every two to three months in some patients before we discharge the patients, a whole kind of protocol, we have to observe them for a minimum of 30 minutes, and we assess their wakefulness. There's a RASS coring that we check patients cannot drive and needs a responsible adult to pick them up. They can also use rideshare, Uber and Lyft and the Recommandations. They can return to driving the next day after a restful night's sleep. We use infusion pumps. Some clinics use drips bags. We have experienced enhancers, recliners, eye covers, Psychedelics, lights. We can block out the rooms we have pre pre warmed blankets. Patients love those to the degree that the patient prefers. We do continuous vital signs, monitoring blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, o2, SATs and in some cardiac patients, eEF, tachycardia, some patients with some other heart conditions, we do continuous EKG as well. These are some of the potential and transient side effects, potential, because not everybody will have them, less than 5% maybe in some cases transient, because if patients experience them, they usually it's in the context of the two hours that they are getting the treatment. Dissociation, as I mentioned, is this experience that the patients have that they feel like out of body or light or floaty or dream like most patients describe it as peaceful, calming and relaxing experience, a few might most patients actually like this, and they welcome this, and they look forward to this aspect of the experience. Less than 5% it's so unfamiliar to them that they might find it unpleasant. I always tell patients, you're awake, you're aware. You have power, control and influence in how to steer your mind if it's trying to take you down a path, maybe of an old memory and old trauma. The doses that we use is 10 times less than what we would normally use for surgery. So patients are awake and aware, but their senses are like hyper they are hypersensitive to their sensory input,

Speaker 4  1:18:36
cognitive and memory. Some patients, because of the effect of Glutamate, they feel like they're so sharp, they're so focused. They tell me, like, Doc, I feel like I can compete, you know, in a quiz be and then you have some patients that feel like there's a lot of cognitive loading that happened, and they just feel like their brain is tired and they just want to rest their head, like, similar to after you finish studying for a final 's exam, we measure their their blood pressures, because it can sometimes transiently increase. And when it happens, usually it happens around the 40 minute mark. We do have some medicines, levitol hydroxy, if we need to. If it goes into the emergency range and it doesn't go down, our experience is usually, 's transient. Last 's maybe a few minutes and it goes back down. It can activate the bladder make patients feel like they need to go pee. We haven't seen this as a problem. If we really have to, we can stop the pump and disconnect the IV. They can go, come back, reconnect and pick up where we left off. It becomes more of a problem in chronic pain protocol, because the chronic pain is actually a four hour infusion within a six hour visit, but we take breaks. Less than 5% can have nausea, vomiting. We give IV Zofran, that usually takes care of it. Less than three to 5% might have mild headache, nothing Tylenol or motion can fix we check the liver, like I mentioned, and in some patients with sleep apnea, they can get relaxed where the o2 shows the saturation 's. We just tell them to bring their CPAP machine on the next treatment that usually does the TRD. All right, I'm almost done. So I just wanted to share some real world data. This was data from Sao Paulo, Brazil, one of the more prominent and large KETAMINE centers there. They've been tracking KETAMINE response in Brazil, and this one in particular was decided they presented in this year 's conference in Austin for the American Society of KETAMINE physicians, and the focus was Suicidality and depression. And so what this shows is that, over time, the more infusion the patient has, their PHQ scores, particularly question number nine, which is a question about self harm and Suicidality, has been decreasing as positive over time where it's almost not there. After three months of treatments, arvard presented their first kind of data. So they've been operating since 2018 Dr Kritzer is running their clinic at Mass Brigham, Majeur Brigham, and we were really excited that they presented their data. And it was, it was, it was great. It was reassuring. So they first started as kind of like a cash clinic, and then eventually they were able to make it so insurance covers their treatments, and I think part of it is subsidized by the hospital, and they've had a total of 471 patients. It's like a suite with like nine gurneys and curtains. So not the best, you know, enhanced experience like most clinics does or offer, but they focus mainly on cost and access, and they have about a three to six week wait time, and so they do see sicker patients, and part of that is probably because of the wait time. So patients are already kind of like in a bad state, and they have to wait six weeks to get treatment, so they're in a worse state by then. And this was a graph of the average treatment each patient received. Some patients, most patients receive somewhere between six to 10 IV treatments, and some receive as much as 80. And it could be a variety of reasons. Some could be better after six or 10 that don't need any more treatments. Some are more complex cases that they need more you know, after even completing the six to 10 series, this is the dose ranges that they gave. They all started point five, and gradually they actually used higher doses they went. The average was 1.3 the highest, they would give, 's 1.5 makes per kilo. And they would infuse this over 40 minutes. So they didn't give 60 Minutes. 's all 40 minutes. And again, it's just prime real estate for them. They want to try to accommodate and see 's many patients as they can. They use QIDS course, which is the quick inventory for depression symptoms. And they kind of measured What's the QIDS course for the patients on the first visit versus the six, six visit, and they found a shift to the left so the QIDS course were decreasing. The average was around 16 to 17, which is severe in QIDS scores, and then it went down to about nine to 10. And you see the overlap there on the left, and the kind of the average scores graph down in the linear graph. So we see this phenomenon. It's called the plateauing. So we see this initial response, and then it kind of flattens out. And so that can happen in the moderate or in the mild range in some patients, but we do see that phenomenon. So when I see that in a patient who was initially severe and now down to moderate, I can either escalate that and partner with TMS, because TMS and KETAMINE can be synergistic, or offer other modalities as well. This is cost, independence and addiction. And so this was a graph by Gabel profiling all medications and their addictive independence potential, the highest being heroin. KETAMINE is low. It's actually lower than caffeine. Okay? So as you can see there, and being an integrative medicine, what are natural ways that we know that modulate Glutamate? And so as we know, KETAMINE is just a tool that we use to try to activate Glutamate, which is the spark that kind of starts it all and in trying to reach mTOR, no surprise, there exercise, you know, so exercise, in short periods of exercise has shown to demonstrate increased Glutamate levels in your brain, okay, but it's a little Bit more nuance than that, because what we found in like consistent exercises, in high performance athletes, their baseline Glutamate levels are actually lower. And so there is this duality in how it behaves. And we think, you know, in short bursts, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's helpful. But in in kind of like training your brain how to use and release Glutamate, how to recycle it, you know how the receptor 's are either resistant to it or has a strong affinity and strong signaling to it plays a role. Okay, meditation is another one. So we found that in patients that practice meditation over time, Glutamate levels in parts of the brain can be lower as well. It goes back to that graph, right? Too much, too little. And this the the Goldilocks spot, the sweet spot. Okay, so amounts is not just the key. Here. It's how efficient are we utilizing the glutamatergic levels, similar to metabolic disorders and diabetes and insulin, you know, you have sensitivity. They even studied long term Zen Meditators, or long term serious Meditators, is another term. They also found Glutamate levels to be less. So there's another Sri Lankan study. So in our clinic, we do what's called Social prescriptions. So when when patient starts getting better, we give them a prescription to start meditating, or, you know, start walking around the block, or start eating an apple a day, or start making new connections, deeper connections, with family or friends, because it helps them in their integration, back into being able to let go of old programming, but also introduce new resilient building programming. Sleep is a it's a great Glutamate Modulator. And Inpatients who have insomnia, they have this, they have this imbalance between excitation and inhibition of the neurotransmitters that leads to maladaptation of the Neuroplasticity that happens in the brain. And so sleep is very, very important. And Inpatients with insomnia, they actually have very high levels of Glutamate in the brain, and so, like I mentioned earlier, too much is also not good, because it can cause brain damage, brain cell damage. I'm gonna briefly kind of this slide just shows some of the newer modalities. I just the message is that there's hope. If you're struggling from depression and you haven't, you know received treatments that worked. There's newer therapies like Glutamatergic therapies such as Ketamine or ESKETAMINE. TMS is another one. But there's some new, exciting things in the horizon, membrane receptor Modulators and Plastogens.

Speaker 4  1:28:17
And this is one example I don't own, I have to disclose I don't own any shares of this company. But this is just to show you what's coming. Remember, the the the receptors on the Postsynaptic terminal 's below the Ketamine activation that I was sharing earlier, the AMPA, the NMDA, even the serotonin to a receptors. So the research going on right now is already at that level, and the molecules are trying to create are novel, and they have what's called selective agonism, or functional functional selective VISN, which means that they can activate the serotonergictor, not activate the psychedelic arm, and go straight to mTOR. So this particular medicine just finished the phase two clinical trials, and it's selective Agonist on the five HTN, a membrane receptor that can activate the mTOR arm without activating the psychedelic arm. So you don't have any of these psychedelic experiences. And it's a pill form, and there's only two doses, so you take it four weeks apart, and the durability of the response, meaning how long it lasts, is 12 months. And they're beginning the phase three clinical trials this year, later this year, and there's, I think, four or five other Meditators coming in the same class. One is the cycloserine. These ones are targeting NMDA receptors specifically with some selective Agonist properties, NRX, 1074, which is Apimostinel and Zelquistinel. So these are all they just completed the phase two clinical trials, and they're all kind of promising and positive responses. So I think that's it. Thank you. I'll stop there and open for questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:09
Thank you. That was terrific. Dr Nario, do you have any online questions or any questions yourself?

Speaker 3  1:30:21
Yeah, yes, that was a great presentation. So a lot of this we mentioned about the main function of the maladion, target of rapamycin. So this is a big con, I guess, topic in relation to integrative cancer therapy. And this is something that has been shown to stimulate cancer. And in your discussion, there is actually in relation, I don't know if you touch on contraindications, how does a cancer diagnoses or a pre cancerous lesion of a patient gets affected by the administration of Ketamine? If this boost 's mTOR, great question.

Speaker 4  1:31:04
So cancer is not a contraindication. In fact, you know, we use it for cancer related adjustment disorder, diagnosis depression or even cancer pain. And I think you're referring to the mTOR as a general mTOR switch present in all cells in other organs, you know, cancer and liver, kidneys, lungs, whereas the mTOR in the brain is specifically targeted by Ketamine through Glutamatergic so Ketamine cannot activate the mTOR in any other cell of your body because it only reaches your brain.

Speaker 3  1:31:39
So it's brain specific. It's very selective. Okay, gotcha, that makes sense, yes, yeah, it's a good thing, because I was getting a lot of questions about online. Another question for you would be wind. So I don't know if you have VISN in our field, we are good friends with our compounding PHARMACOKINETICS. And as you were promoting, mostly, these are commercially made medications, SPRAVATO, the Ketamine IV in terms of effectivity. Has there been a study, or maybe even your clinical experience about compounded versions of these Ketamine there was a question in the chat also that they're using Sublingual so what are your thoughts on this in terms of your practice?

Speaker 4  1:32:28
I'll answer that in two levels. One was the first question about compounding PHARMACOKINETICS. There's different types of compounding PHARMACOKINETICS. You have class A, class B 's. Some are bigger, some are smaller. Some can cater to different states. Some are local. So there's this great variety there. So and depending on the state, you know, they have to kind of follow regulations in how to make sure that the products coming out are clean, effective and dependable. So I would say, stick to like big name compounding PHARMACOKINETICS that are well established. I've encountered lier 's, for example, there's a time Ketamine was was there was a there was a shortage. There was a shortage after covid Ketamine. And I was trying to source Ketamine and I couldn't find one. I called branded Ketamine is only produced by three companies, Ayr, par and hegma, and during the shortage, they only prioritize hospitals, okay? And the shortage was either the Ketamine, the powder compound, or the actual Biol. There's a time of the Biol itself was a shortage, and so I had to, I was like, I can't open a Ketamine clinic without Ketamine, right? So that's that was a quick exercise, and I had to resort to compounding PHARMACOKINETICS too. The lighter 's was a good brand that was reliable, you know, as well. And so I would say, stick to compounding pharmacies. And there are practices that rely on compounding pharmacies for their supply of Ketamine, because there are still some challenges, even for like new starts, to try to get established, have a vendor relationship with bigger companies, and some of them have gotten stricter after 2021 and the opioid situation. So there's a whole kind of story behind that. And you know, some, some of these big, big companies, McKesson, including, what's another one? McKesson 's one and a few others. They won't open new new accounts. You know, if you're gonna order Ketamine, because of what happened, they're scared of what happened with opioid thing. Now, I think they're better. They have some compliance officers now. The second thing is so compounding. PHARMACOKINETICS can provide IV Intranasal cheaper versions than the Intranasal 's SPRAVATO. I think the Intranasal compounded medicine 's about $39 I think, which is like, cheaper than the $1,300 branded one. That's ESKETAMINE, and you can have it either Racemic, meaning both right and left side, Dextral and 's Ketamine, or also just the ESKETAMINE. So they have that capabilities. Now, most of the compounded ones that you see in the market are, you know, that's flooding the market because of the current situation with some of the virtual Ketamine oral at home use is the trophies, the square ones, Sublingual 's and all that stuff that is kind of like an ever growing field and developing field. FDA just released a guidance against home use. I think it was last year, one of the biggest companies. I think mind bloom was, was 's undergoing litigation right now because a patient that died of overdose after asking to discontinue his subscription, and they still sent his subscription. So that's a whole kind of different developing story. So, but we do recognize this the use of that space, and the American society of academic physicians has not released a formal statement, you know, against compounded oral formulations and because it has a very specific use, but we don't recommend at home, because it's okay until it's not. And you know what? Patients sometimes don't realize it's it's the risk, and so we're the biggest risk Meditators and so doing in a medical supervised setting, I met a guy that was from Australia, and he had practice serving a province in Australia with a with a radius of 4000 miles. So he can't do he can't have his patients drive back and forth, you know. And the oral Ketamine was, was his way of helping the patients that really needed that, that treatment. But he had guardrails, you know. So the first two treatments, you have to be in the clinic. We have to observe you, and the subsequent treatments, you know, we'll do it by zoom. My nurse is watching you, and you have to have a family member kind of be with you, you know, so that we can respond if we need to. So, so those are there currently, they're coming up with some firmer, kind of best practice guidelines, you know, as well, specific to oral Ketamine, but the general consensus among faculty and expert panel within the American Society of Ketamine physicians is that we don't recommend its use at home.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:35
Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. Thank you, Bill Dr. Miz Kades, I think that if I mispronounced it, I apologize, has her hand up.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:46
Dr Salo May,

Speaker 7  1:37:47
so yes, I'm sorry I took me a while to unmute. Thank you so much for this amazing presentation. So can one of these therapeutic effects for depression using oral trophies?

Unknown Speaker  1:37:58
I'm sorry I missed the first half. Can you

Speaker 7  1:38:02
achieve therapeutic effects for depression using oral Ketamine, trochees? Yes.

Speaker 4  1:38:09
So it has been reported. It has been reported. And you can, you can, you can, you can check it out in open evidence. CANMAT, the CANMAT task force is a really good paper that reviews all of the data, but in terms of tiered evidence of efficacy, non IV infusion 's are categorized as level three or level four categories, just because of the inconsistencies. There's so many reasons why IV 's appear, but it's not that we don't see the the efficacy in the oral as well. It's just weaker and inconsistent. And then you have to deal with sometimes the way it's formulated. The trope is one side is heavier than the others, and so that's been reported, you know, as well. So most of the practitioners that use it are either using it as a bridge patients who either lose insurance, you know, as a gap until they can kind of get back in their feet. I know, I know a a practitioner that you know her. Her strongest advocate is oral in her clinic, she's up in Washington, Dr Lucille Grande, and all of her published articles, she's probably one of the more prominent published articles in the oral use of Ketamine, because her advocacy 's access and with our patient population and whatnot. So it has its use, definitely. It has its affectivity as well. But if you, if you are after the best outcomes, and you have the option one, you know, go to IV, if you have insurance, you can also go to ESKETAMINE.

Speaker 7  1:39:58
And okay, thank you so much, and then do you believe that people with ADHD, because the neuronal pathways are a little bit different, probably some genetic SNPs in their metabolism of neurotransmitters, that they could have bad side effects to this? Just this is an anecdotal experience of someone I know. But have you experienced that, and is the dosing different for people with neuro divergence,

Speaker 4  1:40:22
great question. Patients with neuro divergence, or neuro or ADHD patients, depending on the case, it can be very challenging to treat with, but it seems like ADHD patients, particularly those that are on ADHD medication, is a predictor of positive outcome, so they have better outcomes. So it was widely presented in last year in this year 's conferences, yeah, and that's been true of our experience too. Thank you. So they seem to fare better.

Speaker 7  1:40:55
And could you just tell me the name of the task first again so I can look that up? Up Canadian

Unknown Speaker  1:41:04
network for mood and insider treatments. Task Force,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:08
thank you so much. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:11
So just, just to reiterate, go back to the slide that you had on on before your one of your, your key mechanisms with action of Ketamine is to stimulate mTOR. Yes, okay. Now we've done numerous episodes on longevity where all of the practitioners on their almost all of them, their, their, their main focus is to inhibit mTOR. So how do we balance that?

Speaker 4  1:41:50
And I think, I think you, you said it eloquently. You got to balance that perspective. I think you can. You can just be like too, anchored in in one polar perspective, and have good understanding of that. You know, I'm also very interested in that space, you know, longevity, anti aging, mTOR, story of rapamycin. Really great story, you know, getting that isolated from the bottom of the volcano, the Easter islands, from the Rappa Nui. That's why it's called rapamycin. And then almost didn't get discovered, because the researcher got their company got fired, and he just kind of stored that into his refrigerator until he found a new job and got the ability to research it again. That isolated Streptomyces hydrophyticus and eventually isolated the rapamycin into the

Unknown Speaker  1:42:44
you don't know anything about this,

Speaker 4  1:42:48
yes, but it's a really, really great story. It almost that almost didn't happen, right? And so I think that we can be global in our approach, but we can also be sophisticated in our approach, where we can have targeted means of active, activating mTOR. So in the brain, where you might want somebody who has either a degenerative dimension to their brain cells and brain mass, and there's been some wearing out, or some damage or aging process, you might want the mechanisms that help repair, rebuild, restore these cells to get activated in a balanced way, in a sporadic, episodic way, and that's why it's kind of like that, that sweet spot, you don't want too much, you don't want too little. You want to wake it up when you need it. You want to slow it down when you don't need it. And in other parts of the body, like in the muscles or in the organs, where you want to slow down aging, you can certainly activate that if you want to. But if I think, if you, if you just lean hard on that, I think you're missing the other side of the coin. I think I love that phrase from Jim Rohn. You know, if you want a safe life, we'll just put you in a corner, in the chair, we'll bring you food. We'll bring you blanket. Where's the adventure in that, right? So there are points in your life where you do have to build, you know, your muscles. You do have to grow your muscles, your brain. And I think one of your speakers, Ross Pelton, I think, right on on rapamycin and mTOR specifically alluded to that, that you can't use it for like kids, you can't use it for fetuses, because those are times in your life where you need the mTOR to be on because you're growing. And I think the way mTOR 's being activated in the brain is beautiful, via the Ketamine, because Ketamine will only activate it via the Glutamate as the intermediary, which you don't have anywhere else in your body, right? So it's only producing in your brain. So it's a very specific kind of target to try to turn on the brain. If you want those parts of your brain to be turned on,

Speaker 3  1:45:16
I think Dr BOCO hit it on the light right on the head, that it's a balance. We can't really suppress mTOR permanently. The thing there is as the opposite enzyme for, and I want to quote Dr halasa, NPK pathway. So NPK pathway is the one that actually utilizes the energy of our carbohydrates, fats and even proteins, and then mTOR builds it up to create tissues for us to repair. So this is something that is a universal balance in life that we have to maintain. And that's why the question about the cancer a while ago kind of is pertaining to that same answer, that it's really more targeted to the brain rather than more of a systemic induction of mTOR stimulation. So yes, again, balance is the key here. So longevity space, we have to remember that we can't overdo some specific therapy to the point where they disrupt the equilibrium, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:10
And, well, there's, if you, if I put in the chat there, the our lecture that we did in November of 2024 on, on, on mTOR and rapamycin. Just as a reminder, certain someone here gave that talk at ammg, and there it is. So anyway, the apropos about nothing. Next question, do you give mid midazolam before Ketamine?

Speaker 4  1:46:37
Good question. So and it's a whole topic in itself. It has its uses. I do sometimes it's great in blunting the high intensity effects of higher doses. The original protocol for pain protocol was so unpleasant for a lot of patients because it's a longer duration patient was exposed to the higher dose. The original protocol is called the ocohen protocol. Stanford refined it, added the data in the front and in the middle, just one milligram sprinkle. Recovery was beautiful. Patients are no longer vomiting. You know, coming out of it is so much better. They're able to tolerate higher doses better. So, yes, it has its use. It's not a universal thing that I use in all patients. It's particularly extra useful in patients that come in and they have, you know, extra high anxiety or panic attack. We have it at the ready. In case patients have it mid treatment. It's rare that I have to use it, but in some cases, it's it's a good thing to have it, you know, in your arm momentum, because if I give it beforehand, it just helps the patient tolerate it better. As a corollary, the these the Harvard data, what I didn't show there was that almost 86% of their patients received IV lurasidam. And that was very high. That's very, very high. 's almost all the patients that they get after a certain point will receive lurasidpamine. The reasoning by Dr Kritzer is that it helps them with the higher doses of 1.3 1.5 mix per kilo. And a lot of patients are also anxious, and so when they get to the higher doses, the premise is that they get more of the medicine, more therapeutic effect, meta tolerance. So yes, I do have midazolam, but I don't use it universally. It's very targeted for

Bill Clearfield  1:48:34
those of us not going the IV route using trophies. What is it a maintenance phase like after six weeks, and Stefan Hartman had an answer, but let's we'll get it from the master here

Speaker 4  1:48:47
after six weeks, what I usually tell patients is, I assess where we are in the first six Traitements. I'll have a good sense of whether a patient is an early responder because I'll see the decline in their scores in the first three sessions, or they are a late responder, so they're on the back end, 456, number of treatments, and generally older patients, 65 and above, are late responders, and it's probably something to do with their physiology. But I have seen patients that are early responders as well, and then once we finish the six, that's when I can have a conversation with them to continue, because if I see a response, there's value in continuing what's called weekly boosters for four weeks. It does two things. One, it locks in the benefit that we got, sometimes it further pulls it down in terms of the response, and it extends durability. So one IV infusion of Ketamine has been shown to have a durability of about seven to 10 days. Durability means how long the response lasts, and even on the first RCT trial by Berman, he's demonstrated that it can last one to two weeks if you complete the six it's been shown that it can extend it to five to seven months. If you add four to the two key to make it to 10, it can extend it to 12 months in some patients. So that's really the value of that. So once they finish that, if they can finish that, for some patients, it's, it's kind of cost prohibitive, but that's the most ideal recommendation I would give. And then it becomes kind of like individualized for IV.

Speaker 2  1:50:30
So are we allowed to ask, what is the cost?

Speaker 4  1:50:34
It varies. So the out of pocket costs, at least for our clinic, is $600 per infusion.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:39
Okay, yeah. All right. Dr Ancheta asks about hyper salvation, salvation salivation. Hyper salivation, any issue with that

Speaker 4  1:50:58
so higher doses has been associated with hyper salivation in the mucosal tracks. Very, very high doses have been associated with laryngospasm as well. So those are the things that you know you have to kind of be prepared for. But in general, in our experience, that has not been a problem those levels that we're operating. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:21
Doctor Rosario from the Philippines says greetings. He's interested to know if he can send his USA vets and clients to you.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:31
Thank you. I mean, that's and and

Bill Clearfield  1:51:33
he asked, he said he had to go. Can share the recording? We'll get in touch with him, Dr Nario, and make sure that he gets a copy of this. Okay, yep, sure. Okay. Can you achieve achieve similar therapeutic effects with oral trochees? I think you answered that one. And can you elaborate on the protocol with Intranasal Ketamine and how effective it is compared to IV? Yes.

Speaker 4  1:52:00
So the schedule, schedule, schedule, there we go. Only difference between IV and Intranasal ESKETAMINE Is that first calendar, which is the more frequent induction phase is eight Traitements instead of 's. So instead of three weeks, you just add another week, and then you still do a weekly booster for four. And then for maintenance, they have to stay on it. And the maintenance schedule for ESKETAMINE is between once a week to once every four weeks, and the right frequency is the one that keeps the patients under control. The cool thing is that we've been following these patients for the past five, six years, since 2019 when FDA approved it, the we usually see this dramatic response in the first month, as long as patients are good and compliant in maintaining their maintenance treatments, they don't relapse, which is amazing. This is actually an old slide from last year, and there's a new slide now for six years. So it's been it's been great. So at least for us, we offer both, and if patient wants to get the response quicker, faster, IV 's the way to go. And while we're waiting for prior authorization from insurance, if they have insurance, we're working on that, but it's time to done with IV. We can switch into SPRAVATO and have it on maintenance or escamine.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:38
Sorry. Have you had many codes or, you know, you know, medical emergencies resulting from this?

Speaker 4  1:53:47
No, so, all, all not, not from our experience. I think the most I've had is a stable SVT or an eEF patient. And so went up to, like, 150 so

Bill Clearfield  1:53:58
we're doing, I know you showed it that you need a lot of resuscitation equipment around, don't you?

Speaker 4  1:54:03
We do have a crash car. We have 02 we have ad so we're trained ACLs to respond cool things that we have data from over 450 Ketamine clinics who are in part of the network of the FDA REMS program. And so you have to be FDA REMS certified to be able to provide ESKETAMINE, the Intranasal spray, to the patient, and there's only been two minor adverse events, snow deaths, there's no heart attacks or anything like that, and both involve o2 desaturations. One was in a very obese patient with obstructive sleep apnea requiring tactile stimulation. The second one was in a patient that took benzos and opioids and muscle relaxants before the treatment and didn't tell you know, the provider. And obviously that's a no no. We usually tell patients to give us a window of about 12 hours before treatments, to avoid opioids, benzos and a few other things.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:03
I actually took the IPI course myself. I got about halfway through and said, I don't think I want to deal with this.

Speaker 4  1:55:12
The risk is low, but it's not zero, okay? And in IV, there's been reports. That 's ESKETAMINE in ivy. It was presented this year. There's a big clinic in New York, Amber clinic. They have five clinics across New York City, and they've had, like, I think, 25 infusion 's over the course of the past four years. So they've, had, like, less than 1% where they've had to send to the emergency room, you know, call 911, and if you do enough of these, it's just a matter of time, you know. So to end up, you know, seeing some patients can have a rest, even if they're not in a Ketamine clinic. They can certainly have one, you know, in your clinic. You know as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:01
I know they seem, they seem to emphasize that though, in the IPI course, just about every every election was, was at least 15 minutes of an hour lecture was that after the first 15 or 20 of those, and I'm not so sure I want to get involved,

Unknown Speaker  1:56:18
don't get discouraged.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:21
Any idea why naltrexone would block the anti depressant effects of IV Ketamine?

Speaker 4  1:56:26
So naltrexone, Naltrexone is controversial. Naltrexone, naltrexone challenge is the reason why Ketamine is class three. So even the classification of of Ketamine into a class three medication was very controversial, and you can go into a rabbit hole, deep dive into the whole kind of storyline. The reason why Ketamine was was classy because there's a study that showed a challenge and there was a partial kind of blockage. So it was given before, the treatment, and it seems to have a partial blocking capacity.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:07
For the metadata, mean was that 50 milligrams of NTS. Was it the low it wasn't low dose Naltrexone. Was it?

Speaker 4  1:57:16
Yeah, I can't remember the dose, but naltrexone itself in further studies, at least, as long as we give ourselves like a six to 12 hour window, we're able to get it there and do its thing in the brain. Really just need a window to introduce it activate the Glutamate enough to wake up the mTOR and not over excite the mTOR, just enough to stimulate the neurogenesis and then come back again. You know, another day.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:54
Okay, our venerable ex Marine is back after a long absence in the 's. The VA only approves outside SPRAVATO At this time, and IV is not authorized. Is that correct?

Speaker 4  1:58:05
It's half true. So the VA has does cover SPRAVATO 's through the CCN Community Care Network, and the VA also covers IV Ketamine through the VCA veterans care agreement. They don't hand out veteran 's Care Agreement, contract. So VCA is a very separate contract. It's kind of like a carve out contract that they identify there's a need in the community, and you're going to be the one of the clinics that will kind of meet that need. So we do have two contracts with the VA, a CCN contract and a VCA contract. So you can, if you have a clinic, you can apply to both, and the IV itself is covered through the VCA contract. There's a there is a national guideline, and sometimes there's an awareness issue, like some of their VA doc Psychiatrie or PCPs are not aware that the veterans have this access. The clinical practice guidelines is available at the national level. So these are national guidelines of the VA. And usually when patients call us, they're from the VA and like, yeah, just, just get a referral from your Psychiatrie. And if you usually have a ready pamphlet telling them that these are some of the information. If your if your doctor is not very aware, you also give this to them, and then they can kind of send their referral to their referral clerks, or MS, a 's, we call them. It does help if the local region, kind of doctor director that approves all of these outside referrals is aware or is an advocate. We're fortunate in the Sacramento area, the director of the VA at Mather, Dr gellerman, is a strong advocate for this, so we've never had any problems. So turnaround times, even VA 's that are new to the area travel from out of state or something like that. When you give them guidance, usually within two to four weeks, they're already seeing us and getting treatments.

Speaker 6  2:00:04
And the vac is that Veterans Administration care,

Speaker 4  2:00:09
BCA, veterans care agreement. So it's a second kind of contract. You can certainly apply for CCN through tri West, right? So tri West, which is kind of being serviced by Blue Shield, that pathway can only cover ESKETAMINE, okay? So you cannot, you cannot send claims or bills for IV treatments for that. So you need to get and apply a second contract for VCA in the same matter that you apply for the CC, and just ask it, can I get a BCA for providing IV Academy for my for my

Speaker 6  2:00:48
patient, the VCA goes through TRICARE also,

Speaker 4  2:00:51
no, it's, it's directly to the VA, and the funding is directly through the VA. It's not through

Speaker 6  2:00:58
TRICARE, okay? Thank you. Yeah,

Speaker 4  2:01:01
DAG and I can have more one on one on that, if you have more guidance, there's some nuances to it.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:06
Yeah, has the study was 50 milligrams of naltrexone. Yes, thank you. All right. Dr nary, you got any more questions online?

Speaker 3  2:01:16
No question for me, because I see a lot of patients here. You know, burn our Burning Man Group, Groupe 's so if somebody 's actually doing Ketamine therapy and behind the scenes, they're doing Ayahuasca, they're doing Ibogaine, they're doing all these things. I mean, is this something that you've encountered before? And how do you handle these situations? I do have these extreme patients who does this and what would be the best advice for these type of population,

Speaker 4  2:01:48
specifically to Burning Man participants, I have not encountered any. I did. I did have some encounters with patients who are have tried, or currently are kind of either trying mushroom Psilocybin and a few other compounds MDMA, MDMA and Psilocybin are actually trying to get FDA approval right now. They finished their phase three clinical trials through the maps program, which was actually great, but due to some critique and study design, was rejected by the FDA. So it's not an absolute contraindication, you know, for us, but I always, you know, guide the patients that safety first. So I want to make sure it's as boring as possible and as safe as possible for you. Second thing is, I want you to get the most of what this medicine can offer you, and mixing it with all these other medicines, can make it, can blunt it, can block it. We don't know. I don't have that evidence. I don't have that data. So it's resource intensive, it's time intensive, emotion and energy intensive. And so I asked the patients if you're going to commit to this. I'm committed to you. I want you to get the most out of these treatments, and my recommendation would be at least to abstain from these Traitements, so at least we're clear whether you're going to respond that this is from this treatment. So but first we approach it with non judgment and radical acceptance. That's one of the core principles we apply in our clinic.

Speaker 2  2:03:17
Okay, great. Okay. Dr Nario, anything? Anything else?

Speaker 3  2:03:24
All the questions are checked out. Awesome presentation.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:27
Thank you, Doc, thank you, Doc. Dr, BOCO, so much. And you said you had a whole nother topic. How does April 28 you got you said you said that with midazolam was a whole another topic. April 28 is open. Not that we want to put you on the spot.

Speaker 4  2:03:55
Thank you for the invitation. I really enjoyed you. This 's team group. Anything I can do to kind of increase the dialog, increase the awareness,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:09
spread the word that the link you have is we're here every week. We've been here since October of 2020, and next week we have a true pioneer in the world of bioidentical hormone therapy. Doctor Eldridge Taylor. He was actually one of my teachers way back in 2000 gotta be 2006 2007 then he's still at it. And so I think you know, if you're, if you're at all interested in hormone optimization, I mean, he's the man. Thank you so much, doctor. Doctor BOCO, this was great. We'll be sending you a video and the participant list here, so if you have any any offers or courses or anything that you're interested in and we're doing, you can get contact with them. We're here every week. You're more than welcome to join us, and we'll probably be annoying you later on in the summer.

Speaker 4  2:05:07
Thank you. Thank you. I was just looking at the chat. I don't think I answered directly, but going back the question on ESKETAMINE effectivity, the response rate is about 65% compared to around the 80% of the IV Academy, and so they complement each other.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:23
Still great. Dr nary. Do you want to say something about the credits for the homeopathic Board of Medical practitioners?

Speaker 3  2:05:32
Yeah, so we're now gunning for more credits. So we did CME credits for our presentations. Now we're going for homeopathic credits. So as we expand our coverage for Integrative Medicine here, we are now going to go through the state to get, actually, all the our lectures here, here in aosi am to be, hopefully accredited. So we'll find that out soon. So just more things to come for the integrative world here in Nevada, and

Bill Clearfield  2:06:01
I'm not sure what happened to Dr Aloysi 's CME provider, but if I, if I don't hear anything in the next week or two, Wels, start looking elsewhere.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:09
So yeah, but we're going to be hopefully getting this one.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:12
Okay, good deal. Alright, anybody, anybody have any comments or questions the folks in the Philippines? Thank you. As welcome as always, it's great to have you. Dr BOCO, can't thank you enough. And if that's it, we'll say goodnight and good hockey for now, and we'll see you again next week. And like I said, we have a true pioneer next week, spread the word so you know we can expand our reach. Oh, and we're starting to talk. We're starting to kick the tires for the next live conference, by the way. So we'll be, we'll be, we'll be we'll be working on that I recovered from the last finally.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:55
So we're ready for another round.

Speaker 8  2:06:59
Well, I have a birthday on Thursday. So the more mature I get, the harder and harder it is to recover.

Speaker 3  2:07:05
So get a brick, slam it on your head, huh? That's right,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:10
okay, everybody. Thank you so much, and we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and over and out. Thank you. Thank you, John. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai