Speaker 1  00:37
Go, Bill, Hey, how are you doing? Good? Hopefully, how's life in the big city? Say, what? How's life in the big city? A lot of action happening, man. So hope we can have a talk sometime soon. Okay, yeah, everything's good. But if you've been reading the headlines, that's the kind of stuff I was dealing with 50 years ago and weird stuffs have weird stuff is definitely happening with the medical board, so they're bringing me up to find out if I'm crazy or not. Well, do you need an endorsement that you are? I figured you could. We could go either way, you know? Well, yeah, yeah, exactly, yeah. Why do they think you're crazy now you've been crazy. Something's something. Something is afoot. Because the board says they have, you know, they're acting just very weird. They don't have anything. I think I did. I send you the board complaint. The what board complaint? I had a complaint filed by an MD in Maryland saying that I am a threat to public safety, but he would not say why I'm a threat to public safety. If he knew you, if you knew who you were, then he you know, I mean, we all know you're a threat to public safety. We've known that for 25 years. John, now we go, we go back 50. Man, we're all, we're all, we're all, we're all a prep, all of us on this that are here, we're all threat to public safety. Oh no, no, that. That's why I need to speak with you. I you know, we've been undermined before, and when they're bringing I'll send you the complaint that was sent, okay, and yeah. And you will want to know, I mean, when I was half dead, like a year ago, 50 pound weight lost severe pain and pancreatitis on Dilaudid right, sometime during that crazy period, I saw a doctor, and he's the one who said I never saw him before, but he says, I'm a threat to public safety because I'm crazy. Well, I guess if I don't know, so I have no idea. There is nothing specific. If there was something specific. You know, we deal with it, but there's nothing, zero, nada, yeah, so Anyway, anyway, and I'm, we've been doing a lot with Dr Quinn and his medicine show, yeah, it's, it's really happening. It's very interesting. I I get, I guess you knew that Stefan had a sister Belle who's attempting to go to a really fine school somewhere. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, so we may do that so she could be our little Are you recording this? No, okay, she may do that, and she could be our spy within the academic medical system and do a lot of good. So she could bring naturopathic or integrative. She can bring integrative into the medical schools, and the medical schools already have the links to the universities, so we could be the either the support structure for Bell, which I'd like to do, and I think we might even try to get a scholarship for because it costs money to go to the medical school, like 30,000 or something, 30,000 I think that's the low end. No, that's the application fee. Anyway, we have our connections there, with the School of West Virginia, and it's a top rated medical school, like forever, and they would probably be more willing to do integrative because there's almost nothing on that front happening in the medical schools. But we could, we could change that. Okay, I'm having fun doing all that stuff. And, my God, all the weird, you know, secret stuff we were doing 50 years ago is in the head now. It's coming to the forefront, huh? Yeah, it is. After 50 years, it's like good, good lord. They figured most, most of those people have died off by now, right? I would think so. So I was kind of surprised to see that there's still a lot of interest in this. We're just Obama was talking about just a few of the stubborn ones who won't go, well, they're talking about it. So something's up. All you guys are listening. You know, they've had the, I mean, part of all this is releasing the information that they have zero point energy production, just clean, cheap and, like, really, really cheap. But anyway, that's what all this stuff is about.

Bill Clearfield  05:49
So Dr Nario question for you, yes, a 4m, got a weekend this weekend for hormones down, yeah, or something. Is it online? Or is it just, is it live?

Speaker 2  06:01
No, that's live. Okay, so that's those are you have

Bill Clearfield  06:05
one that you're involved in, right with them, right?

Speaker 2  06:07
Yeah, so that's not the online one. So majority of a for M events are more live now. They're only selected few that we're doing online. So because they want to, they want to promote the meetup, like, what we do, right? You we rather see people, yeah, and I think there's more money when you go charging a lot

Bill Clearfield  06:28
of money. Aren't they able to charge them, what, $1,800 for a weekend or something?

Speaker 2  06:33
I guess that's not going to my pocket.

Speaker 1  06:36
So, so Hey, Bill, have you ever added up how much money you spent with a for him? No, I don't want to, yeah, be scary. Got to be at least 100,000 Yeah, that's kind of it. But I made it back. I mean, it made it back, you know, at least, at least doubled it. You better,

Bill Clearfield  06:59
better of Yeah, so

Speaker 2  07:02
we got it all written off from taxes anyway, so,

Bill Clearfield  07:07
so you're doing a women's health thing right for a couple of weeks, in a couple

Unknown Speaker  07:13
weeks that will be in March.

Bill Clearfield  07:17
Now, without giving, without giving away any state secrets. Have they? Have they included anything about since the FDA changed the the labels on for estrogen,

Speaker 2  07:30
I think we're going to be given a new lesson plan about that, or updates. But last time we have not, because the last, I guess, time I taught the changes were not there yet

Bill Clearfield  07:44
because, because I did give, I did give a lecture on that somewhere along nine, somebody, I'm not sure who, oh, you know I did. I did it for far she was group

Unknown Speaker  07:52
for, you were there for no,

Bill Clearfield  07:55
no, this was there Wednesday night. I will be there for their, their thing in March.

Speaker 2  08:03
Well, can you give me your slides for that? I can, at least I can get to get the information fresh from you. Giving us the memo yet.

Bill Clearfield  08:20
Well, I'm going to be on for part of tonight. Anyway, you're good. Well, you're going to present a case, right? We're going to present a case tonight. So that's, that's tonight. It's five o'clock, so Dr Klausner is on. I see

Speaker 2  08:33
where you at Victor? I saw you there. Is our patient going to be here with us?

Bill Clearfield  08:37
No, I don't think so. So it's patient. And so we've, we've masked

Speaker 2  08:43
her entity. Mask her.

Bill Clearfield  08:47
We've, we've, we've hit her identity so that she's not identifiable.

Speaker 2  08:54
Sure, because you, you put you, I guess you invited some patients of yours here before

Bill Clearfield  08:59
we've had them. Yeah, yeah. And most of them are usually happy to go on, but this one's a bit younger and I guess shy. So anyway, she didn't be on, apparently. So so we, we, we added, if we added a few things, nothing, nothing, that would alter the what we're going to present. But we added a few things. So in case you know, you think you know who we're talking about, you don't

Unknown Speaker  09:30
where is Victor base anyway? Is he is

Unknown Speaker  09:33
in Las Vegas? Yeah, Las Vegas?

Bill Clearfield  09:36
Oh, I muted you.

Speaker 2  09:38
Sorry, I know I talk too much.

Bill Clearfield  09:40
No, and that's, you know what it is. I go to put, you know, somebody to sign in, and then either you or Joel hit it, and then I hit it, and you're there.

Speaker 2  09:50
So, so, yeah, I know everybody in Vegas. I might be

Bill Clearfield  09:57
there's 2 million people live in Vegas, you know, them all. I'm kidding.

Unknown Speaker  10:02
Actually, it's starting to get close to 3 million

Bill Clearfield  10:07
to say medicine and political life in my hometown, right? Well, you know, go to, you can go to Wilkes, barre PA, where I live for 30 years, they keep losing people because, you know, who the hell wants to live there, right? They're still waiting for the coal mines to reopen. They closed in 1959

Unknown Speaker  10:29
you know, Nevada has the same thing right now. We've got something burning in Nevada, just like the Philippines or the, you know, Pennsylvania.

Speaker 3  10:42
I have a comment going back to the changes after the FDA took the black box off of estrogen, I got an article today saying that there was a reporting that we've got a real shortage of e2 patches.

Bill Clearfield  10:58
Elliot, well, you actually CVS for the last two months is, you know, we write for a prescription for it, they say what? Send us an alternative, you know, out of stock for the estradiol patches and progesterone

Speaker 3  11:15
and oral progesterone and oral progesterone, yeah, well, they're saying that all sorts of different companies are coming in, and we need to take a look at how good they are before we prescribe them, and that there's one of them that's actually once a week a once a week

Bill Clearfield  11:30
there are once a week patches. But the reason I don't, we don't use them is because the insurance companies won't pay for them. And one of the reasons to use the estradiol patches is because, you know, insurance will pay for it, but they won't pay for the once a week. They only pay for the twice a week. Okay? I didn't even, don't ask me why. I have no clue.

Speaker 3  11:47
Yeah, I never even heard of that once a week patch. Yeah, no,

Bill Clearfield  11:52
they've been around for a while

Speaker 3  11:56
putting in the word I fall off. I've been putting the word matrix in the prescription and make sure that they're not giving he's not getting sister, they're not giving some other like the old fashioned ones that didn't have the slow release.

Bill Clearfield  12:14
That one I didn't know so well.

Speaker 3  12:16
I'm just kind of making sure that that doesn't happen. Since there's a shortage, I don't know what they're going to use to fill in, so I'm just trying to make sure it's a slow acting month. Well,

Bill Clearfield  12:31
thank you everybody for being here tonight. A little bit different tonight. So Dr, dr Nario, you're going to, you're going to do our leak of the week, or whatever the heck you call it these days, sure. So go ahead and then, then we'll talk about what we're going to talk about tonight.

Speaker 2  12:52
Okay, alright, so let's begin so as we continue to discuss indigenous medicine. So in the past episodes, I began ayahuasca, kratom, we had our speaker ketamine. Today, we come full circle with one of the more common ones that we hear. It's called psilocybin, so which has moved from counter culture to clinical research with surprising speed. Today, I'll briefly review mechanisms, Data and Safety and screening considerations. So this is about understanding the pharmacology well enough to counsel patients intelligently. So psilocybin is a pro drug found in species such as psilocybin, says it is converted into in vivo to psilocin, a 5h two, a receptor agonist, a tryptamine alkaloid structure related to serotonin, which is, as we know, can produce hallucinations or hallucinogenic and traditionally used for psilocybin, usually are for rituals, and the more common ones that we hear were the pre Columbian Mesoamerica or the Aztecs, and for the US, schedule one is still the same classification where it stands since 1970 and it's again schedule one is a drug It has no current accepted medical use and a very high potential for abuse pharmacologically this procedure, I guess this produces cortical glutamate release, increased neural entropy, disruption of default mode, network activity and increased global connectivity, neuroplasticity window last days for weeks post dose, And the reason for that is dendritic spine growth as longer lasting compared to ketamine. It functions as a network level modulator, not a conventional antidepressant. So the neurobiology here, functional MRI has shown, in terms of the studies have been exploited by John Hopkins University and Imperial College of London, demonstrated that it decreases Default Mode Network integrity, increases cross network communication, reduce rigid self referential processing, even pre clinical data shows that it increases BDNF signaling, enhancing synaptogenesis and even dendritic spine growth. So this aligns with observed psychological flexibility post sessions. So clinical data, MDD, so major depressive disorder, 2020, randomized trial from John Hopkins demonstrated a significant reduction in grid ham scores and rapid onset has was seen within one week. It was also sustained in terms of benefits at four weeks post session. And again, another study, most advanced in terms of the indication, is treatment resistant depression. So compass pathways, or this is the name of the study, which is now in phase three program, which was actually announced just for barrier 1720, 26 and in London. So they're actually showing that comparable, the results are comparable to superior effect size to even acetalopram in some measures and rapid symptom reduction, so durability, extending weeks to months in subset analysis, and they use it on cancer. Also, John Hopkins and NYU show that it lowers the distress of cancer patients. Again, sustained effects of around six months, even addiction. So how powerful it is single or two macro doses, plus you do psychotherapy along with this. Thus the effects, as we call it, to help with depression, now ensues safety. Psilocybins appear physiologically safe in screen populations. There was no noted, I guess, accidents between from now to before, however, contraindication should be bipolar, psychotic disorders, unstable, cardiovascular disease, active, serotonergic polypharmacy, so SSRIs adverse effects are primarily transient, anxiety, blood pressure elevation, psychological destabilization in vulnerable patients, state level. Where are we at? With in the US? With this, Oregon has a fully regulated psilocybin service program that they actually have. Colorado has regulated natural medicine program for this, and also Australia and the US. So outside of the country has authorized prescribing for TRD by psychiatrist since 2023 Why not us, right? And even Canada section 56 exemptions are there for their use as a finale for this stem assignment is best understood as a certain energy network disruptor, a catalyst for emotional processing, a high intensity, low frequency intervention. So the emerging data are compelling, but outside of regulated settings, variable remains high. So as integrative physicians, our role is not for advocacy, but informed risk gratification and patient education. That's our leak of the week. Great.

Bill Clearfield  17:34
Okay, thank you so much. Where was I before we started? Forget anyway, so this week's a little bit different. So Dr Victor Klausner is one of our regulars. And Victor, I think you were, weren't you president of the of Noma at one point in the Vatican Medical Association?

Speaker 4  17:59
Twice the first time, yeah, it was twice, twice, okay, first time was voluntary, the second time, it was damage control.

Bill Clearfield  18:09
You know how that goes? I know how that goes. So Dr Klauser has been one of my students, and he brought me a case that I thought was pretty interesting, and I thought we could bring it to the group. And hopefully. I know this forum sometimes doesn't, doesn't, isn't quite all that interactive, but we want to present it as you know, what would you what would you do in the audience at various intervals? So we want, want you to put your thinking caps on. We'll see how it goes. If it doesn't go too well, and nobody, nobody volunteers anything, then we'll just keep going. So Victor's going to present, present the case. He's going to present her symptoms, and then I'm going to do some of the academic portion of it.

Speaker 4  18:58
Bill, I That wasn't the plan. That wasn't the plan which, oh, you, you're gonna do your part, and then if there's time remaining, I was gonna do that genomics piece on, oh,

Bill Clearfield  19:09
so I'm doing, okay, yeah, we see how you see how well organized we are here. All right, so that means I don't get to introduce you then, or do I?

Unknown Speaker  19:19
We know you introduce I'm

Bill Clearfield  19:21
totally they don't know who I am. You know, I'm the big mouth who drives everything here every week. So Dr Klausner has been 25 years in Southern Nevada as occupational and rehabilitation medicine specialist, and then he came over to us that at the dark side, and he's a leader now and integrative primary care and non surgical sports medicine. He's known for listening closely, looking deeper, and blending evidence based diagnostics with root cause strategies that promote healing energy and long term wellness. Doctor Klausner shares with us his insights in a commonly seen, frequently misdiagnosed and treated and complicated case history, which I guess I'm going to be presenting now so, so his goal is to help every patient improve function, reduce inflammation and optimize performance, physically, mentally and metabolically. Isn't that what we're all supposed to be doing? Right? All right, gonna admit some people too often, patients are rushed through brief visits, handed prescriptions without answers and referred from one specialist to another. Dr Klausner seeks a better way. Over time, he's developed a model of care that treats the entire person. His integrative approach combines conventional medicine, osteopathic expertise, acupuncture, hormone optimization, regenerative therapies, nutrition and performance focused recovery so, and we won't go through traditional health care. You know, they have symptoms and you know they whatnot. And so, Dr Klausner, welcome to welcome to our group. Welcome to the dark side. And so you want me to go first? Is that it absolutely? Yeah, okay, alright, so you all know me so, so this was a really interesting case that that he brought to, brought me, and what I wanted, what I thought would be would be interesting for the group to to hopefully participate. And let me, let me find it. Here. There we go. Okay, you can also, can you all see the the slides here? Should say A Tale of Two syndromes.

Speaker 4  21:37
Nope, we've got a lab slip. You got a lab slip, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  21:43
all right, let me try it again. Stop share. All right, now you see me. Oh, yeah, I see I have Victor here. Okay, let's try it again. How about now? Yes, you got it now, yes. Okay, so it says tale of a tale of two, two syndromes. And like I said, sort of gave it away here in this little, little picture that we drew. But I think it covers a lot of the ground that at least the routine stuff that we cover, not some of the more complex stuff, but it covers a lot of the ground that we cover, and I think it's illustrative of some of the things that we do. So this is a young lady. She's 25 now, she actually came to see Dr Klausner at age 25 but her medical history begins at age 18. And so we're going to, we're going to, we traveled back in time a little bit, and we're going to, we're going to show you how this, you know, these issues kind of build. We're going to look at conventional medical care versus what we do, and we, hopefully, you'll, you'll get an idea, those of you that are that are either new to this or fairly, fairly new to this, or not, not in what in the hormone optimization world, get an idea of what we can do and and looking at at things through a hormone, what I call a hormone centric lens will broaden your perspective. You know, we live in the age of specialization. We have a gastroenterologist. They go do gastroenterology things, and then you have an endocrinologist, and they do endocrine things, and never the twain shall meet. And we're going to, we're going to show you how things are linked together. So, so we're going to talk about some medical issues, we're going to talk about some psychosocial issues, we're going to look at some diagnostic tools, and we'll give you some of we'll give you some of our treatment protocols. Okay? And I hope you'll, you'll be there'll be some participation along the way. Some of this was CME, so I don't, I don't get paid by anybody. So this is our patient, Serena. She's presently age 25 but her story begins like I said, at age 18, she was kind of a tomboy as an athlete. She was very disciplined. She was she she was meticulous in her schoolwork and her after school activities. She was reliable. She had an after school job, and she was shy, but she was very friendly. She was a good student, and she also played softball, soccer and lacrosse, and she earned an athletic scholarship to Boston University with from those skills, and also ended up with a master's degree also. So she was raised in a devout Catholic home with strict expectations around socializing and social boundaries. She rarely had any dates, and in a worldly sense, she describes herself as being inexperienced. She had a traumatic close call with a male acquaintance at age 18. She didn't really go into it, but she's been increasingly guarded and hypervigilant ever since, and she says that she has some panic attacks when she when she remembers the situation, and she ends up with skin rashes. She ends up with stomach cramps and hyperventilation. She one time she had passed out in a grocery store when that situation came up in her dorm room. She was known as the ice queen. Around age 18, three months into her freshman year, she began experiencing Sudden Unexplained anxiety and severe itching and cystic acne, and this sort of shattered or shook her confidence and her social comfort, and she tried, she did her best to hide her symptoms throughout her first year of college. So first question is, how do we determine what kind of approach would be best for this particular person? Are we sympathetic, or are we a little bit more stern? Okay, and the real question is, how can you gain this patient's confidence that we are competent to handle our care? Remember, she's had these symptoms now for seven years, and she's been to a number of practitioners, medical doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, psychologist, you know, and body workers and whatnot. And she's very wary, you know, she's, you know, one of the things is, you know, she's been to many places, and she hasn't gotten anywhere, and she feels sort of taken advantage of. People have taken her money and basically told her there wasn't anything they could do for her. So okay, so the one of the one of the antecedents of all of the of the of where we're headed, is that she had this sort of unexplained anxiety. So does anybody in the group have any any diagnostic or diagnostic, either way, look at this, what kind of what comes with uncontrolled pruritus, shortness of breath, cystic acne, also she had some cold sensitivity, and what could some of the possible triggers be? So again, I don't know if this forum is you can do it in the chat. You can just sort of talk, talk out loud, how are her periods? Her periods are regular, but heavy, and she gets a lot of pain before the two to three days before her period comes on and she gets a little bit of an aura or a headache, also probably about day 2425 of her cycle.

Speaker 3  28:18
What I wrote in the chat is that my first thought is that amnesia is part of the diagnosis of PTSD, so she may not remember consciously what happened to her at 16, but her subconscious and her body may remember, right, you know,

Bill Clearfield  28:36
and it does. It does. It does. Yeah, panic attacks, sympathetic overdrive, right? That's, that's kind of, kind of what we were looking at.

Speaker 5  28:44
Yeah, there's no details on what happened to her, this traumatic event.

Bill Clearfield  28:49
You know, she was pretty guarded about it, and, and

Speaker 4  28:53
we, I think she was very embarrassed. She's a very, like kind, sensitive person, but, you know, she doesn't want to share too many details, you

Bill Clearfield  29:01
know, yeah, I guessing it was some sort of, you know, sexual, unwanted sexual advance. That's what I'm guessing. Would that be, right?

Speaker 4  29:14
Victor, yeah, it was her freshman year in college at UNR, actually.

Bill Clearfield  29:21
So, so, so I'm out of the house. Yeah, first time out of the house. And, you know, it can be a traumatic experience, especially if it's someone who's brought up in a strict religious background and has, you know, you know, it's not, it's not, not been out and been out in the world,

Speaker 4  29:41
so but I think that the bottom line in terms of this situation, you have to be completely sensitive, try to be supportive and reassure that you're going to try to get to the bottom of it, and follow your instincts, get all the testing. Obviously, there could be Thyroiditis and other hormonal stuff going on, along with the cortisol spikes that come with the stress and anxiety college and and PTSD and all of it. So right, to get the testing, you know, you've

Unknown Speaker  30:17
got to, you've got, you've got to go to the childhood.

Bill Clearfield  30:22
You Yeah, well, like they said, Well, we did, we did, you know, we asked, you know, a lot of questions, and this is where, this is kind of where her, her symptoms, sort of began.

Speaker 5  30:36
So I missed it. Did somewhere along the way, did somebody stick her on a bunch of antidepressants?

Bill Clearfield  30:41
They well, they tried, but she didn't do well on them. And then gynecologist wanted to put her on birth control pills, and that made her ill. Also, she was given Zoloft. At one point, she was given Xanax and another, and she didn't, she didn't do well on any of them.

Unknown Speaker  31:02
So we could do

Bill Clearfield  31:04
this is a pretty good, good example of, you know, God didn't make a Zoloft deficiency, you know, you know, there's, you know, there was, you know, triggering events here, obviously, and the symptoms that she's having, really, at least in our world, have a fairly predictable course that you can follow. That's, I think that's, that's part of, part of what, you know, what we wanted to bring out. And so Doctor rich wine says hormone imbalance, obviously. So do the blood work is, which is what we did. But from what we heard last week from Doctor Taylor, we shouldn't be doing blood work. We should be doing saliva tests, right?

Speaker 4  31:51
Yeah, but, yeah, she doesn't have that kind of money, so we're stuck with blood from the private health care insurance. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  32:00
Okay, so, so here's some things to think about. You know, the timeline, sudden versus gradual, episodic versus constant, cyclic, with her menses, links to sleep or over over, lost training. So these are some things to think about, when, when you're thinking about, you know, you know, histories and triggers, anxiety phenotype, panic, waves versus baseline, palpitations, tremors, sweating, constipation, diarrhea, heat intolerance, insomnia, also cold intolerance, which is what she had rashes. So itching rashes is a caused by heat exercise or showers, or is it cold? Caused by cold hives, dermo dermographism, flushing, angioedema, GI symptoms, with flares. So these are all. These are all things that to sort of flesh out acne. What's the distribution? Is it in her jawline? Or is it on her trunk? Is it on her face? Hirsutism, too much hair or hair loss. Does their cycles become irregular? Or did they change? Are they regular and change? And she's had, has she had a change in weight of more than 5% over the over the last two months before she she saw you? Any cravings, particularly salt and sugar, which are associated with cortisol or stress hormone abnormalities? And are there any reactives, like blood sugar, droppings, lows, infections, antibiotics, medications can cause it mold, a change in environment. You know, the family, did the family move from wilkesburg, Pennsylvania to Las Vegas? And, you know, in her senior year of high school, and she missed out on all you missed her friends and her proms and all of

Speaker 4  33:54
that, it's Reno. That's the culprit. She went from Vegas to Reno,

Bill Clearfield  33:59
Reno, Reno's, that Reno's, Reno's the safe haven. Vegas is Sin City, right? Too much caffeine, not enough, right? Not enough exercise, too much exercise over exercise, and can cause an excess and cortisol. And you know, is she feeling? Does she have a feeling of safety, or is she in fear all the time? So these are all, you know, historic questions that you may want to ask on a physical. You know, is, is there a blood pressure or heart rate change from when she's sitting to standing, lying to sitting, any types of tachycardia, again, the acne morphology and distribution, any excoriations. You know, is she scratching and scratching it and making, making the where the itching bleeding? Does she have any dark area skin areas or especially around skin falls around the neck of the elbows or the knees, the wrists or the ankles. That those are glucose abnormality, symptoms, any tenderness in the neck, any nodes and any cervical nodes, any any any lymph nodes, palpable under the arm, in the groin, and any tremors, hyperflexia, slow reflexes. Slow reflexes Can, can signify a thyroid, a hypothyroidism, and strength training, so muscle training, and then dermo, dermographism. So you take a, usually take the back of a compression or hammer, and the thing you use for reflex, reflex hammer, and run it across the abdomen, the body, from the from the umbilicals to the to the top of the pubic bone, if the if it stays white for more than 20 seconds, that's usually a look at it's called the sergeant's white line. It's a look at adrenal fatigue type symptoms, if there's any hair, especially in the pubic area, any hair inflammation. You may want to do a Koh sting and then again. Review of systems, dry eyes, dry mouth, any arthralgias, rashes and photosensitivity. So these are some things to look at. Does anybody else have anything I see there's a whole bunch of chat stuff. So Victor, why don't you monitor the chat here,

Speaker 4  36:48
so they're participating in a silent, yeah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  36:53
Dr Smith has adrenal abnormalities for a lot of this, migrating rashes, parasites, okay, that's good. PCOS, dr, aunt, Tomboy, and then genetic testing for metabolic pathways and genome. Mind is that a company? Is that? Is that a type of test?

Speaker 3  37:15
It's a company, yeah, okay, they do the test for the metabolic pathways and they focus on the psych the psych meds.

Bill Clearfield  37:23
Okay, alright, so hold that in mind, because I'm not familiar with that. I don't know how many on here are, so you can expound on that a little bit. I don't know if you have any samples of anything you can Yeah. Okay, so they were

Speaker 3  37:39
the first company that was approved by the FDA to use the American, sorry, the human genome to test for treatments for and they focused on the psych meds. So I've used a lot. It's there's a very strong link between the results and the clinical experience of the patient. So, yeah, it's Gen general mind is the one that I've been using. That's the original one.

Bill Clearfield  38:06
Okay, so, so what I want you to do is so add in some of these other things that we didn't do, and to get a more complete picture, too much estrogen can cause her to be in simple I guess, sympathetic tone also cystic acne, probably low estrogen because of her athletic history and acne because of PCOS, okay, little Sin City, okay, definitely low progesterone, which is parasympathetic, especially If she's not ovulating. Okay. So, alright, guys,

Speaker 4  38:42
everyone's on it, Bill, we're going to move forward. Get to the get to the meat.

Bill Clearfield  38:48
Okay, alright. So some physical findings, and these are pretty typical of it, of Androgen excess. So hirsutism, she has had some excess growth on her chin. Her cheeks are lower abdomen. And one place you might not think is excess hair, but in the low back, low back area is usually, that's usually a clue if they have hair there, but not excess hair. Any place else, that's that's a clue that there's excess, you know, there's, there's the androgens are too high, viralization, enlargement of the clitoris, aggression of breast development, and then skin issues, cystic acne, with oily skin, which is not typical of adolescent acne. And remember, this was age 18, and we didn't see her till age 25 so so sudden onset of acne, hirsutism, breast regression, when your primary diet, preferential diagnosis, you should all have this right. But what should we look at first? Should we look at the psychiatric trauma, anxiety and panic attacks? Should we investigate our endocrine system, the virilization demands of hormonal workup, or should we do both? And did the trauma trigger the endocrine dysfunction? So what say you

Speaker 4  40:15
on chat? They're saying endocrine it's PCOS.

Bill Clearfield  40:20
Okay. Yeah. I mean, you know, it's, yeah, it's fairly, it's fairly obvious what we're dealing with here. But you know a lot, especially, you know, yeah, you know, she's eight, when she's 18 years old, and and, you know, experiencing these things, and, you know, you, you're, you know, the first thought is you're going to go, you're going to go see, go see someone, and they're going to give you a pill and fix it. And you know, as we know that, you know, life doesn't work that way. So somebody already asked, you know, what is her menstrual history? Oligomenorrhea, or amenorrhea, deals with is a first clue to ovulatory dysfunction, insulin resistance. Look for those darkening in the skin folds, acanthosis nigricans, also skin tags and central adiposity. These are metabolic red flags. When we're going to do our Androgen panel, we're going to get a total and free testosterone, sex hormone binding, GLOBULIN, DHEA sulfated, not just DHEA. You can get a DA dihydrotestosterone. The serum levels I find aren't very helpful. Even if they're high, they don't they don't really correlate with any symptoms, and I doubt that it's going to give us much information here. If we want to quantify the Androgen excess, there's a number of ways to do it bioactive. Testosterone is probably the most accurate way you need the testosterone, total testosterone, a free testosterone, sex hormone binding, GLOBULIN albumin. Yeah, that's it. That's it. The problem that I have with the bio bio active is that you really, I really need a computer program to calculate it for me, and I like to be able to do things on the fly that I can do in my head, or at least on a piece of paper or with a calculator. So the free Androgen index is probably a little less accurate than the bioactive formula, but I can do this one pretty much in my head. And the formula is, you take the total testosterone, divide it by 0.288 times the sex hormone binding GLOBULIN that'll even up the the the numbers that'll give it that'll give us this the same, the same, the numbers in the same fold. So for males, 30 to 130 is considered normal. At about 50 to 115 is optimal. For females, about zero to point nine to 6.0 is normal. But we wanted about two to four to about 2% to 4.2% and that's where the patients will be feeling good, and that's that's our optimal going to look at weight distribution, and we're going to document weight changes and fat distribution patterns. If you have a, you know, one of one of those, some sort of a way to measure it. It's a good idea to try and keep track of it. You want to keep track of as much information as you can, you know. So because the patients do get exacerbated, because it's, you know, this is not a quick fix, and it can be a lifelong problem, especially when they're younger. You know, they don't have, they don't really have the patience for it. So we want to be able to show them that, that even if there are setbacks, that they are improving. Okay, so Truncal obesity suggests that metabolic syndrome, okay, so the Rotterdam criteria for Polycystic ovaries. So you all since you all guessed that this was reformulated in 2023 and it consists of three entities, Ovulatory dysfunction, so Oligoovulation, or anovulation, with irregular or absent menstrual cycles. Number two is Androgen excess. Clinical signs are hirsutism, acne, acne on the face, skin breakouts on the neck and shoulders, pins and needles, peripheral neuropathy, symptoms in the hands and feet. Swelling of the hands and feet elevated, increasing blood pressures, redness in the face. Those are, these are all symptoms of Androgen excess and then Polycystic ovaries. So the ovaries have to have, depending on who you read the rottered Dam criteria says you have to have 12 folliculitis in either Ovulatory so one or two is actually considered normal. But what now, at one point, I've seen eight, but the strict criteria is 12 folliculitis. So, so you know, two of these three are sort of, well, one of them, Ovulatory dysfunction, you know, you're going to have to, you know, have the patient tell us, or, you know, did their period stop for how long? And if have their or their periods, you know, scant or almost non existent. Obviously, if they have hair where it doesn't belong, or acne, or their blood pressures are rising, that's fairly obvious. And then Polycystic ovaries, you know, we're going to have to get an ultrasound, one for that, or, you know, laparoscopy, if it's bad enough. Bad enough. So again, I like to be able to to do, be able to do things to sort of on the fly. And again, when you start seeing some of these patients, you'll start, you'll start appreciating some of the patterns that you're going to see. So and So. Here are lots of organs and Androgen excess and Polycystic ovaries, and we and you can have any, all of any, or all of these issues. So we can have anxiety and depression, irregularity, Moodiness, anger. You can have GI symptoms. You can have a decreased gut diversity, Dysbiosis. You can have an increase in iron transport from from cells. You can have a I did, I actually did this for the American Academy of Medical acupuncture. And we came up with what they call a young deficiency, which is a energy deficiency. And I actually came up with treatment protocols for all of the hormones using with acupuncture, needle needle formulas, increased abdominal pain, irritable bowel syndrome. Remember, high testosterone will will metabolize to aromatize to estrogen. So you're going to end up with excess estrogen, and all of the issues that that one deals with, with with estrogen, excess and and central obesity, you're going to have Anovulation, Oligoovulation, and it's going to affect the patient's fertility. You would think with excess estrogen and testosterone, you would have increased bone density. But actually what happens is that there's a there's a saturation point, and there's a point where the opposite happens, and they end up with thinning of the bone and osteoporosis. It's, it's, you know, again, too much, too much testosterone, too much estrogen. They end up with insulin resistance, renal calculi, chronic kidney disease, Erythropoiesis. They'll get an increase in hematocrit and they're going to have an increase in pro inflammatory cytokines, TNF alpha, interleukin 1b and interleukin six. So we see all of these things with elevated, with the symptoms that we're looking at. So grok can do the calculations in a flash, you know, I'm still not, I'm still not the into, into that, you know, as a as a reflex. So, so we'll try it. So remember we talked about, we said that you're going to see symptoms of excess testosterone, and testosterone aromatizes into estrogen, and we're going to, then we're now, we're going to see estrogen dominance, and so we're going to see again depression and cognitive decline, Moodiness, sleep disturbance. We're going to have even more cytokine excess, pro inflammation, inflammatory cytokines, including TNF alpha, interleukin six, interleukin 17 and interferon gamma, increased again, insulin resistance, increased sodium absorption, with water retention and edema. Again, bone remodeling, we get an over suppression of bone turnover with with with osteos sclerosis, uterine Hyperplasia, too much estrogen, estrogen causes cysts, ovarian cysts, breast cysts, uterine cyst we call we call fibroids, endometriosis, which are technically cysts on the lining of the endometrium and excess bleeding, mental Menorrhagia, they'll have visceral fat accumulates, constipation, irritable, inflammatory bowel disease, autoimmune tendencies, lupus, Hashimoto's and Graves disease. So we're going to see all of these things with excess androgens leading to excess estrogens,

Bill Clearfield  50:16
insulin resistance in Polycystic ovaries, again, depression, neuropathy, cognitive changes, loss of executive function. Remember, loss of executive function in the hormone world is a growth hormone deficiency. So you see how one one entity begets the next one begets the next one again, the skin darkening folds, Acanthosis nigricans, inflammatory lung disease, an inverse correlate with with the FEV one Fe FVC, percent, with insulin resistance, increased Gluconeogenesis, elevated blood sugars, fatty infiltration of The liver, urinary frequency, renal insufficiency, testosterone and estrogen dominance with a decreased sex hormone binding GLOBULIN increased thirst, hunger, increased visceral fat, visual changes, endothelial dysfunction, tachycardia decreased HDL cholesterol increased triglycerides and overall fatigue. So here's our conventional diagnosis. And those of you sometimes dealt with some of the specialists, especially the endocrinium specialists, if you back them into a corner and say, Well, what about a, b, c and d. The answer usually that I get from them, anybody in any endocrinologist in the group here, I shouldn't say this. The answer I get is, I'm a board certified endocrinologist. That's why so, because I said so. So our Serena went to see a Gyn ecologist and an Endocrinologist at age 19, the Endocrinologist told her that she had elevated testosterone due to an atypical, atypical form of Polycystic, Polycystic Ovulatory syndrome. So he they prescribed birth control pills to suppress ovarian Androgen production. And Spironolactone, which is a potassium sparing diuretic, which does have properties that blocks Androgen receptors, it actually is kind of a unique it blocks the side effects of testosterone without blocking the the the useful, the the the reason that we would want to use, want to have, or want to use testosterone. You know, we frequently use this in older folks, they have side effects, especially females, in our perimenopausal and post menopausal females, if we're treating them with testosterone, and they get some of the side effects. Spironolactone is pretty, very effective at blocking the side effects while leaving the the positive effects free.

Speaker 4  53:09
Bill, can I just add one thing is that, yep, I think I fell into the same trap that the Endocrinologist did, and that is this young woman is very kind of pet, Teede, and doesn't manifest the typical way that I learned PCOS when I was in medical school and in family practice training with, like, insulin resistance, like, as a must see type of thing, because she really didn't manifest that at all. And she wasn't, you know, on, you know, developing the belly fat and the, well, again, you're right, but, and so, so that's kind of one thing that I think I had to get my mind out of my traditional training and try to start thinking out of the box, because she didn't fit the picture from just looking at her labs initially, when she was much younger, even especially

Bill Clearfield  54:06
well, you know, that wouldn't be any fun. I mean, you know, right? They wouldn't need us. Yeah, right, exactly, all right. So, so the conventional approach targets the symptoms, right? We're going to look at acne. We're going to look at here. Look at hirsutism, and we're going to give you, give you something to get rid of it, and irregular cycles. But what about the triggering events? What about our lifestyle? What about any of, any of our metabolic or immune issues? Basically, they're told nothing can be done about them. So, so this is where you know, this is where we come in. So again, this conventional treatment mechanics, Spironolactone blocks Androgen receptors, reduces oily skin, acne and hirsutism, and it works fairly well. Usually, we started anywhere at 25 milligrams, and go up, you can go up to 200 I usually, usually 50 is enough, and it, like I said, it does work quite well there. There are over the counter remedies that you can use that will, that will suppress the Androgen receptors. Also, oral contraceptives can suppress ovarian Androgen production, but they can cause side effects. It can wreak havoc with their cycle. And there's, there's, basically, it's a side effect city. I mean, there's, there's lots of problems with it, and not only in the immediate timeframe, but, you know, now we've been using, we've been dealing with the birth control pills, and it's, it's aftermath, for 60 some years, and we see a lot of you know, gynological pathology from having used synthetic hormones for long periods of time, potentials for metabolic worsening, nutrient depletion and masking root causes. Okay, so at age 19, if the oral contraceptives cause excessive weight and Truncal fat deposition, what is the is, does this consider the treatment successful? Is that a YAY or a nay?

Unknown Speaker  56:17
It wasn't successful.

Bill Clearfield  56:19
No, it wasn't so let me. Let me go back here. Mike, I gotta. I got something there. I wanna. Now she didn't do well at all. And over here, on the, on the, on the right here, this is a normal ovary. You can see there's a couple of folliculitis. This is Polycystic ovaries. They call it a string of pearls. It's almost like wearing a string of pearls. It is over, over here, and you can count them, 1234, 567-910-1112, 1314, 1516, 1718, I count 18 here, just in this little, little loop, right there. Alright? You know, birth control pills will. They're going to mask ovarian Ovulatory dysfunction. If somebody comes in and says, Well, I've had two period, I get two periods a year. We're not doing, you know, again, we weren't, weren't made that way. We're supposed to have one every month, you know, every 28 days. And, you know, we're really just sort of kicking the can down the road. They birth control pills can increase nutrient depletion. They can cause Dysbiosis, especially B vitamins that are critical for methylation and energy. Birth control pills can usually, can a lot of times, worsen insulin resistance and weight gain, the very the metabolic drivers of PCOS. So I'm not a big fan, and let's see what do we have here? And menopause is similar to PCOS and simple in a lot of ways, yes, so let's Okay. So next question, what would you do differently? Option A, you know, continue the birth control pills and Spironolactone, this is the standard of care. How about adding insulin sensitizing agents? And the usual one is Metformin to address root metabolic causes, and, and, or, you know, Berberine is a over the counter insulin sensitizing. It also has some activity against

Unknown Speaker  58:45
it's a consensus on C I would believe,

Bill Clearfield  58:49
well, that's our consensus. But let's make. Let's, let's, let's make. Let's make. Pretend we're at the the American Osteopathic Association School of white bread medicine, I'll have to step outside the box. Yeah.

Speaker 4  59:09
Also I you know the the testing obviously has to kind of keep be right continually. You have to kind of continue.

Bill Clearfield  59:19
I can't tell you how many patients have come to me and said they went to an Endocrinologist and they gave them, they gave them this. They gave them that. I asked about diet doesn't matter. I asked about exercise doesn't matter. Hopefully, things are changing. I've two of my students that I've had now are actually an endocrinology residencies. So hopefully, hopefully it's starting to change a little bit. One other thing about so we see a lot of patients with Polycystic Ovulatory syndrome, and metformin for blood sugar control is sort of the standard of care there, and I have to tell you that almost universally, by the time they call us. I don't know exactly what it is, but these patients hate Metformin, and they'll actually tell the front office person if he's going to prescribe me Metformin, I'm not coming in, or when they come in, the one that's one of the first things that'll tell me, if you give me, if you're going to write for Metformin, I'm leaving. I don't know exactly what the what, what, what the issue is, but I'm but I've seen this dozens of times, so So be very wary. There's some sort of something happens with these patients when they're one Metformin. And if any, any of you have any idea, let me know. And you know, let the let the group know, so

Speaker 6  1:00:44
last time when we had then DOB G doctor, he said that it COCs is also mitochondrial dysfunction, the metabolomine.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:56
Okay, somebody else said, diarrhea,

Speaker 6  1:00:58
oh yeah, diarrhea, lactic acidosis and lactic acidosis, that's why it's being discontinued, if decreased kidney function and But Dr David Sinclair, who's number one In anti aging, he's recommending it as anti aging. Also like, for mean, it's given to produce Ovulatory. So it's given like, like, Chloe, PHY'S and metformin are given for women who cannot conceive to stimulate Ovulatory. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:37
So we like, yeah. So we like, you know, sit plain, plain, you know, well, the book say Ceylon cinnamon, I we've done it as well with with plain old store bought cinnamon for insulin sensitizing, sensitizing, sensitizing. Chromium. Chromium picolinate is another one. Somebody put that in the chat. Berberine, we use quite, quite often. We like Berberine for lots of reasons, and we use fairly high doses of it for depending on on which preparation you use, four to 500 milligrams, two of them twice a day. We get. We you can get a decrease in hemo GLOBULIN a 1c within six months of 1% which is what you get with metformin without the side effects. And you also get an improvement in your total cholesterol and HDL cholesterol levels also with Berberine. We also use Berberine in those doses with I'm going to give you a little caveat with resveratrol, 100 milligrams of resveratrol after our weight loss programs, when the patients are done, you know, with their GLP ones or whatever they're doing. And so the Berberine and resveratrol is very effective at helping them not regain the weight. So that's, you know. So that's, again, one of the bonuses that we have that a lot of other folks don't, obviously on the right. Natural Androgen blockers, lifestyle and dietary intervention, you know, is always part of the part of the program. Okay? So oral contraceptives, they kind of work Cosmetically, they don't have any effect on the underlying they actually hide the underlying metabolism. Outcomes seem to be worse with weight control. With weight it increases central Adiposity, you're going to get an increase in triglycerides. We're going to get variations in the LDL, HDL ratio. You're going to get some neutral to increase insulin resistance. Your biomarkers that you want to look at is your waist circumference, blood pressure, hemo GLOBULIN, a 1c insulin resistance, HOMA resistance. Again, you can do that as a calculation. I can give you a simple formula, fasting blood sugar times fasting insulin divided by 405, that'll get our units in sync. We our goal is less than 1.9 that ratio normal is less than 2.9 and we do this, you know, pretty much for every patient, for every visit. And then you can follow the the insulin resistance, because there's a lot of moving parts. You got fasting blood sugars, you got random blood sugars. You got hemoglobin, a, 1c you got insulin levels. You can follow this, H, O, M, a, i, r, and again, you can calculate this just with a calculator. And you know, and follow, follow it along. Are they getting better? Are they getting worse? And you can show the patients, you know, they have a they have a fasting blood sugar of 80, and a hemoglobin, a 1c of 5.8 which is in the pre diabetes range, where Dr narrows cancer doctors say there is no such thing as pre diabetes, and an insulin of 15, which is normal, And they're going to have a high insulin resistance, and then also triglycerides, HDL ratio. Okay, so where birth control pills shine, they can. You get more predictable withdrawal bleeding. You get, you get some endometrial protection. When patients are anovulatory, they can, we can improve the acne and hirsutism with Ovulatory suppression, you'll get an increase in sex hormone binding, GLOBULIN and decrease in free androgens with, with, with birth control pills, you do get contraception, of course, and you get Ovulatory and suppression, which reduces a functional ovarian cyst formation, but there's always a but insulin resistance. These are not insulin sensitizers. They you're going to end up with metabolic syndrome that needs a, you know, to look be looked at separately, you're going to end up with visceral Adiposity. They're going to gain weight, especially in the in the middle. It can be worse. It could be better, but you need to follow it. There are Cardiometabolic risks with birth control pills, lipids, blood pressure, glucose often require management, and then we're not looking at the root causes. You know, are they sleeping? Are they stressed? Do they have underlying issues that have not been addressed, like our friend Serena here? Are they? Are they? Are they doing any type of exercise and and also, the thyroid is also an issue at times, and so monitoring. We need to look at the lipids, we needed to look at the blood pressure. We needed to look at the weight and waste. This is these are patients on birth control pills. Remember, there's a risk of blood clots with them. They some, some of the some patients will end up with mood and libido issues and and patients with migraines, those that smoke, those that are over 35 those that have blood clot histories and severe hypertension, these are not ideal people for birth control pills. The type of pills. There are, you've got your Ethinyl estradiol. These are your equine estradiol. These are potent hepatic first pass substances. You get increased blood clots that you can get a rise in triglycerides and blood clotting signals. Now progestins. Now we're talking about synthetic progestin. They can vary from from androgenic to anti androgenic, and we're going to see metabolic and mood effects. There's no protection with from these, from from estradiol. In fact, it actually worsens, like endometrial stripe and endometrial thickness, large contraceptive database is is is available, but the long term exposure is a tradeoff symptom control versus Cardiometabolic monitoring. We really don't like birth control pills. They cause all sorts of havoc, natural unfortunately, the natural hormones have not been shown to be effective with contraception, so we have to do something if the patients need need contraception, remember that if you're treating patients with estradiols, they have to, they have to, have to have progesterone on board. Also it lowers a breast cancer and blood clot risk, and that lowers the risk of all of the maladies that you see with the synthetic estradiol. But keep in mind, it's not they're not reliable for birth control. I just brought out a list here of different birth control pills that have been used with Polycystic ovaries. And if anybody wants this, just let me know, and we'll probably put it up on the website, and I can send it to you also, okay, Victor, anything in the chat we want to talk about,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:16
not really. Okay, I have nine reiterating things you said.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:24
All right, so skipping ahead here from age 21 to 24 remember, we didn't see her till age 25 she began with excessive fatigue and brain fog, and was extremely tired. She started developing ocular migraines, vascular component. The migraines were cyclical. They were they were more prominent in the first half of her cycle, and when her period began in the in the mid cycle, in the luteal phase, they they diminished. And then, age 24 she started noticing hair thinning, her nails started breaking, the classic signs of Thyroiditis function. So we have a, you know, a young gal with with a lot of moving parts here, and she's not getting a whole lot of help. So what do we want to do here? She's now tired, she doesn't doesn't matter how much she sleeps. Is this Polycystic Ovulatory related comorbidity? And what labs do we want to do to sort of tease this out? So Option A is Polycystic Ovulatory related fatigue. Remember, she's got excess testosterone, excess estradiol, Gyn, and all of the downstream issues from that.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:50
We have option D on on the chat,

Bill Clearfield  1:10:53
option B, the Thyroiditis function. We want a full thyroid panel. How about adrenal fatigue? Adrenal adrenal issues, cortisol stress, or again, D, all of the above. So, so one of, one of my little side, side things that I've been doing is I've actually gone back to school a little bit, and I've been taking the Institute for Functional Medicine courses on the side, Doctor, Doctor Nario, just so you think, I'm not doing anything. And their approach now is to look at the adrenals first and look at cortisol and stress hormones. Because obviously all of these symptoms are will will manifest stress and inflammation in some manner or another. So their their their issue, their theory is, we start with the adrenals. You then go to the thyroid, then you look at the sex organs. Now, in reality, we probably do them all at all, at the same time, but if you need a hierarchy or order, that's the order you want to do, you want to be in so we're going to look at the at the at the adrenals first, the thyroid second, and the sex hormones third. What do we have in the chat there? Victor, I got, I got a lot here.

Speaker 4  1:12:14
So talking about NP, thyroid, armor, thyroid and low dose progestin.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:24
Okay, copper IUD, but not easy for an oliveris female. I got a yikes from Dr Quinn dratolia. Which formula Did you want?

Speaker 6  1:12:35
Again? Oh, insulin resistance, but I didn't hear you. Insulin resistance.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:43
Insulin resistance, fasting. Blood sugar times fasting, insulin divided by 4050. Thank you. Normal is less than 2.9 optimal is less than 1.9 Thank you. Doctor CLEARFIELD, okay, and Dr Quinn says, Remember, I mentioned resveratrol. It needs to be taken with something like yogurt. If you take it for better absorption, what you really need to do is there, there's two types of resveratrol. There's a cyst and a trans you want the trans resveratrol that's 95% potent. So you want the trans resveratrols you most of the resveratrol if it doesn't say, say, if you look on a box and it doesn't say it's usually the CIS, this is only about, only about 5% resveratrol. You want trans resveratrol, and I guess we're still not CME. I have to give it a little disclosure. I don't anymore, but I used to write for a company called longevity next, and longevity next their pilot or their premier product is trans resveratrol with vitamin D and Dr halasa, if you're listening, it has cyclodextrin in it, and it was formulated in 2004 so cyclodextrin isn't isn't anything new. Wow. Amazing. Okay, so, believe it or not, so here's our full thyroid panel, TSH, free t3, free t4, reverse t3 the TPO, Thyroiditis antibodies, anti Thyroglobulin antibodies. We now doing a spot urine iodine. Thank you, Dr Hartman B 12, and folic acid, vitamin d3 and Ferritin. You have to do all of these. These are the these are the nutrients that you're going to you're going to find deficient. And you we've been doing, we've been doing spot urine iodines. It's more accurate to do a 24 hour urine iodine. But you know, the patients don't really like that. So if we find something positive, you know, we do suggest that we probably, we don't do very many of those, but that is more accurate. And then you can get all the halide. So you can get the bromide and fluoride levels also, but a spot urine, iodine, we've been doing that, and you have to know how to how to interpret it. So, so a normal level is, I don't remember, off the top my head, the units 100 to 199 that's normal. If it's low, under 100 then we're going to, we actually, and even if they have autoimmune disease, we are going to recommend some iodine three months down the road, if you repeat it and they are on iodine, if the patients are taking iodine the spot urine, iodine levels are going to be extremely high. It does not mean that they're overdosed. It does not mean they're they're poisoned. All it means is that they're taking, they're using iodine in some form. And when I mean high, I've had it. I've seen it as 1020 500 we had one patient at 13,000 on the spot, urine iodine. And they they had no symptoms or signs of iodine overdose. So, so all it means is low, normal or using and again. So the one to 13,000 we were a little bit worried about that, so we did a, we did do a 24 hour urine on that, and they were perfectly adequate. They're perfectly fine the adrenal function. So to we like the reverse t3 as a screen for that, for the for cortisol or stress hormone, and reverse t3 over 15 are usually they're usually symptomatic. Symptoms are when the patients wake up. They're tired. In the middle of the morning, they need something to keep them going. In the afternoon, they feel like they need a nap. By dinner time, they're exhausted. Later at night, eight, 910, o'clock, they get a second win. That's when they're most awake, and that's when they get their most work done and that they're most alive, then they have trouble sleeping, and there's usually sugar and salt craving. So those are the symptoms that you're going to see. To be more direct, we get an am and actually a PM, cortisol, DHEA sulfated, DHEA and and cortisol are inversely related to each other. So if the patient's level, cortisol levels are high, you can, you can treat them with some DHEA, and it will balance, balance out the cortisol. A 24 hour four point cortisol saliva test. I think I have a picture of one here. You've seen that. You've seen those where they show you the the cortisol activating response, and then the cortisol levels fall off during the day. So four point cortisol level, we get it at wakening around noon, around four o'clock, and then at bedtime. Other labs, we do the CBC with dif CMP, a lipid panel, fasting insulin, fasting glucose, hemoglobin, a, 1c I use IGF one as a screen for growth hormone. Homocysteine is a nutritional marker, and it also can also be a marker for damaged coronary artery disease, or coronary arteries Prolactin. And remember, from Doctor Gordon, low Prolactin levels, especially in traumatic brain injury, are indicative of chronic treatment resistant, anxiety and depression and Pregnenolone, that's a hormone of memory, the androgens total and free testosterone. I don't like I said before, I don't take much stock and in DHT, the serum DHT levels, sex hormone binding, GLOBULIN, DHEA sulfated, you want to reassess the Androgen status on and off treatment, Estradiol, LH and FSH and PSA in men. And just a little hint, if you're coming to am MHT in April, I have some new groundbreaking information on FSH that's pretty that, at least in my brain, is been pretty exciting. And I found I heard a little blurb about this last, last December in in Vegas, at the A for M meeting. It was just someone said it something in passing, and I picked it up and ran with it. And it's not the whole lecture that I'm doing, because it's laboratory part two, but it was so interesting that I actually put it in there. So if we don't get to it, we have an opening. Maybe I'll bring it out on one of these, on one of these hours. Also, okay, there is a connection between Polycystic Ovulatory and Hashimotos Thyroiditis in the general population, one to 2% and up to five to 10% of women, depending on the geographic area and iodine uptake, have both Polycystic ovaries and Hashimotos Thyroiditis. And so this is an example of, you know, we have a Gyn ecological problem, and we have a a thyroid problem, and never the two twain shall meet. Now, it's been estimated that almost up to 25% of females under the age of 25 have some form of Polycystic Ovulatory symptoms. Females with Polycystic ovaries are three to four times more likely to have Hashimoto's than women who do not have Polycystic ovaries, and the odds ratio is 3.27 so in other words, the odds of having an autoimmune a thyroid disease and Polycystic is is three times higher with Polycystic Ovulatory the common Etiology are chronic inflammation, insulin resistance and gi permeability and immune dysregulation. So keep that in mind, because when we look at autoimmune thyroid disease, these patients frequently have GI symptoms, immune dysregulation, and again, my stomach's killing me. Go see the go see the gastroenterologist. He did a colonoscopy. I have an erosion, or I have a irritation, and they give him, you know, Prilosec, or whatever it is that they use, and never the twain shall meet. So at age 24 the patient stopped the birth control pills on her own. In November of 2025 with, with, she's decided there were too many side effects her, her menstruation ceased immediately, and and remember that the hypothalamic pituitary ovarian axis had been suppressed with the birth control pills, and now it's shut off completely. And so she presented to us for some some more insight, some of the things that were found, and this is from Dr Klausner himself, asymmetrical small breasts with poorly formed left nipple, evidence of Androgen interference with breast development, some Virilization, slightly enlarged clitoris, long term Androgen exposure can affect this. There was no obvious acne or facial hair, likely due to the residual Spironolactone previous suppression.

Speaker 4  1:22:11
I think the facial hair is she knows how to hide it. She plucks a lot, you know, she she, but she did have hair on the small of her back, though, and a lot of leg here too.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:23
Okay, anything in the chat? Anybody have any comments? Anything else here? Let's see what else is new. We contacted armor and asked about the use of corn and processing, since over 90% of corn in the US is GMO, the question was asked and not answered. Okay, I would like a copy of it to the birth control pills. How about a hint? I don't hint about, you know, talking here, so I'm not, not sure. Let me, let me know what it is you want with hint about, okay, so let's take a look at the thyroid. Now, why does it go on the fritz? When I give my thyroid lectures, this is usually I start with this. Especially like to to Noma, you know, the real doctors, the regular doctors. So the theory is, is that there's a failure to convert t4 to t3 and in the last couple of years, they've sort of squirmingly said, Okay, well, maybe some nutrients are not, not being absorbed also. And that's, that's it. And there's, there's, there's no, no other way to look at it. So just a failure to t4 to t3 so why does t4 to t3 fail? Advanced age? And you know what is an advanced age? My granddaughter, when she was three years old, was I heard her, overheard her saying something about about getting older. So I asked her, How old was old? Old was, and at three years old, she told me, 20. So how old is an advanced age to excess goitrogens consumption. So the things that the foods that we tell patients that are good for them, that nobody seems to like, and that are especially good for menopausal and menstrual symptoms. So your cruciferous vegetables, cauliflower, kale, broccoli and then some things like spinach, strawberries, pears, certain nuts all have what chemicals in them that are called, known as goitrogens. They slow the thyroid down. So the consensus is, with the goitrogens, what we want to do is we want to have them cooked, you don't necessarily need to eliminate them, but raw, the raw cruciferous vegetables will slow the thyroid down. Now, if you have a spinach salad in there, you're going to die. No, but you know, if patients will come in here, they have a spinach salad every day for lunch. So if we can slow it down a little bit, you know, we can get at least a little bit of traction. If they're on thyroid medication, they have to take the thyroid medication separate from everything else. They can't take thyroid medication with any other medication, vitamins, herbs, minerals, and they have to take it with just a couple of sips of water to get it down. Ideally, they should not have anything an hour before or an hour after they eat, or, sorry, an hour before or hour after they take the thyroid medication. And it does, this doesn't matter if it's the synthetic levothyroxine or if it's the natural ones, the two natural ones, if, unless you compound it, or armor and NP Thyroiditis, the only two that are left. And the FDA is trying to get rid of them, by the way, also, but they have to be taken separate from everything else. And I tell the patients, you can't use juice, you can't use coffee, you can't use tea. It has to be separate. And a lot of them, it's going to disrupt their day. So one of the questions that I that I asked them is, did they get up to go to the bathroom in the middle of the night? You know, those of us over age 50, that's fairly common. If they get up at the middle of the night, four o'clock, five o'clock in the morning, fairly regularly, we'll have them take the thyroid medication then and then, by the time they get up for the day, they're good to go. They can take it at night if they haven't eaten anything for an hour, to an to an or so also before they go to bed. But it has to be done at a consistent time. You don't want them to be taking it at two o'clock in the morning and then five o'clock in the morning and then at 10 o'clock in the morning. It has to be at a consistent time. Remember the liothionines, the T threes. I have very short half lives. They're only there. I think the half life is about three to four hours. You have to dose dose them at least every six hours, so usually at least twice a day, and sometimes three times a day. Birth control pills, as we've discussed, chemotherapy and radiation exposure, toxin exposure, extreme exercise, inflammation, any type of itis, low iron, low growth hormone, low testosterone. And these medications will interfere with t4 to t3 particularly Amiodarone. Amiodarone is a fabulous medication for acute atrial fibrillation. Patient comes in the hospital and a fib you give them, the cardiologist gives them IV Amiodarone, and, you know, within a couple of hours, the atrial fibrillation is quieted down. The problem is that they'll then give the amateurone to the patients to go home with and pill form. And that's where the trouble starts. I actually had a doctor who I covered with he was a little bit, I was in my 40s, probably then he was about 60, and he had probably Hashimotos Thyroiditis. But we didn't know about it then, but he had a very fragile thyroid, and he would go, he went into him, started having heart, cardiac condition, you go to the hospital, they give him the Amiodarone and get rid they would stop the atrial fibrillation. They'd send him home on the Amiodarone, and within two weeks, he was having a full blown hypothyroid crisis. Go back to the hospital, and they did the same thing over again, after about the third or fourth time, I said, tell the cardiologist to give you something else, and they wouldn't. So, you know, after a while I said, don't take it. So tell them you're taking it and don't take it. We'll give them something else. Beta blockers is another one, fentanyl, Dilantin is again, will interfere with thyroid, prednisone and lithium. So the all of these here are an issue when it comes to the interfering with thyroid and synthetic progestorones. Now notice it's not the natural progestorones, it's the synthetics. So these are the seven root causes that seven things you have to look at if you're going to treat Thyroiditis, and this is where we shine. You know, patients come to us after they've been like this. This lady seven years of getting nowhere, and we're going to look at her immune system, gastrointestinal attract we're going to look for heavy metals. We're going to look at some infections. And the infections that we're going to look specifically for, Epstein Barr is probably number one cause. So if she had, you know, mono when she was 18, you know that? That's a key. That's a key right there. That's a trigger. H Pylori is another one. That's probably number two. And we like seeing patients with h pylori because we've actually on on a few occasions, not too often, but on a few occasions, we've gone back, treated the H Pylori and the Autoimmunity Thyroiditis disappeared also probably about 15% of the time. But you know, but enough to take notice, hepatitis, herpes, Lyme disease and Yersinia, which is food poisoning. Those are the infections you want to you want to look at the HbA axis. So this is, again, your cortisol, you know, stress hormone levels. And again, we mentioned iodine. So iodine, fluoride, Bromine, I don't have time. We're, you know, been talking for a while about going into the, you know, the whole iodine, the story of iodine. But look, look that up. Look up the story of iodine and Fluorine fluoride. It should be fluoride, not Fluorine. So look up that story. It's pretty interesting, and it's another one of those medical follies, sort of like the low fat diet, where we thought we knew better and we shot ourselves in the foot, and then again, the medications that we talked about. So molecular Mimicry, this is where the items like gluten that you get in wheat or Casein, which is in dairy, they have similar chemical characteristics to thyroid, to thyroid, the thyroid molecule, and we get what a cross reactivity occurs in the immune system. Misidentifies these foreign substances as thyroid substrate. And eventually, you know, it realizes that it's not and it triggers an immune response the body attacks the thyroid as its own. And the inflammatory cytokines that are developed from gluten and Casein are TSH, 17, interleukin 615, 17 and 22 and 23 so this is a clue about what we can do to try to overcome you know, some of these issues, what's what is potent against the TSH, seven teens? What treats interleukin six? What treats interleukin 1517, 22 and 23 that's going to be your homework assignment. I'm not going to tell you what this chart is what I use to distinguish ourselves from the white bread, you know, medical doctors. So the conventional model is over there in the yellow, a failure to convert t4 to t3 our diagnosis, we're going to do a TSH. Lately, they've been reflexing to t4

Bill Clearfield  1:32:19
you know, no other diagnostics are noted necessary the remedy, Levothyroxine, that's it, and diet doesn't matter. Well, of course, you know, we do everything that's on the right and get criticized for it, for spending too much money, but we're the ones who actually take these patients and turn. We measure iodine. We're not afraid of iodine. And we look at the patient's medications. There's the labs that we do. We talked about them again, and some of the other tests that I didn't mention, the functional gi evaluation. So I like the GI map. I know Genova has one that's a little bit more sophisticated, but the GI map tells me pretty much everything I need to know. If we got nowhere with whatever comes out of the GI map, we'll look at SIBO, so small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. We will do Micronutrient testing. If you do the Dutch test, you'll get that in there with that organic acids, and you'll get, you'll get the main micronutrients. We do metal, heavy metal testing. I do a hair follicle test to as a screening that seems to, seems to, at least weed it, weed out. So the hair folliculitis, pretty good. It's probably not a heavy metal I mean, it's not 100% but it's pretty good. One caveat, though, every patient that I've done a heavy metal hair test on in the Reno area is positive, highly positive, for uranium. I'm not really sure what to do about it, but that. But you know, it seems like, you know, it's just an endemic in here. I know we were downwind from when they used to do nuclear testing in the 50s, so I hope they don't bring it back bacterial cultures, of course. C reactive protein is inflammatory marker, or hormone evaluation spot urine, or 24 hour urine. Iodine, the remedies you know, Levothyroxine, according to the Endocrinologist, that's the only thing you can do. We've done t3, only, t3, t4, combinations, desiccated thyroid. We like for the Thyroglobulin the patients have positive Thyroiditis, we use the plant sterolins, particularly Maia care is the brand, I can mention brand. We've also used something called wobezyme N, which is an enzyme if, if it's the it's not quite as potent, but the magic care can get to be a little bit pricey. Wobozyme in is about 1/3 the price, and we use a lot of low dose naltrexone, gluten free diet, low Goitrogen diet. We eliminate food sensitivities. We'll do a food sensitivity test, and just in general, white flour, white sugar, dairy, soy and corn, those are the bad guys. So that's sort of just a general overview. This is a patient's profile here. Her hemoglobin a 1c was 5.4 her insulin was 4.6 her vitamin D was a 56 which is isn't terrible. The midpoint is 65 but our Ferritin level, our iron store was extremely low at nine. Our goal here is 90 to 110 iron deficiency alone can cause fatigue, brain fog, hair loss and impaired thyroid function. So you need to check the third Ferritin level. You need to check B 12 and folic acid and vitamin D here Androgen panel, Victor, did you want to present this part?

Speaker 4  1:35:40
No, it's okay. I shared my slides on the chat so people could look at them. Okay, it's just, you know, that's kind of the main thing I wanted to talk about. But we could do it some other time. Don't worry about it?

Bill Clearfield  1:35:52
Okay, so she had a total testosterone of 9830 to 40 is about our sweet spot. That's where we want to be. 98 is, you know, more than two, two and a half times where we want it. She had a very high free testosterone. The DHEA is at 265, that's not terribly high. 200 to 250 is usually considered adequate. And sex hormone binding GLOBULIN, that's the protein that binds testosterone that we use that so as it travels in the bloodstream to get to the organs, to where it goes. So the free Androgen index is 98 divided by the product of 48 times point 288, so if somebody can do that math again, 98 divided by the product of point 288, times 48 so our TSH was 3.1 remember 0.4 to 4.5 is normal. Our goal is 0.8 to 2.0 and remember, TSH is an inverse. The higher the number is that. Remember, if you don't have enough, your brain tells us to make more. If we have too much, our brain tells us to make less. So the number that we get is an inverse, so the midpoint is about 2.0 to 2.5 2.2 3.1 is normal. But in the low normal range, free t3 this is the part that does the work. This is, you know, is the thyroid getting to the tissues, 2.0 to 4.2 is considered normal. Our goal is about 3.4 to 3.6 to 4.2 so this is sort of low mid range. We're pretty close to where we want to be. So she's getting, you know, some some thyroid molecule there. And the free t4 is our store unit. This is on the lower end of normal. We wrote that about 1.1 to 1.5 so again, free t3 free t4 they're they're normal, but on the lower end of normal, and the TSH is also on the lower end of normal. And you know, somebody looking at this, this pattern here? Well, we did. They'll do a TSH. It's 3.1 you're fine, even though she has all the symptoms. But let's look at the antibodies. So now you have to look. First thing you need to look at it with the antibodies, is whichever lab you're using. You have to look at their scale. Lab core has a different scale than quest. Quest and renowned. So the biggest hospital chain in our area uses the quest scale, so normal for lab core is 34 with an optimal of 20. But normal on quest is nine. So if you get a 17, and the patients got using quest laboratory, that's high. If you 17 on the lab core. That's not high. So again, you need to look at what your what your your calibrations are, and you need to mark it in the chart, because if, over time, the patients will go from one to the other. And if you don't know, you know if they have 17 today, and they have 1717, today from LabCorp, and they had 17 two years ago. But it was quest. They went from high to normal, so you need to tease that out. And her anti Thyroiditis, normal in the quest scale is less than 1.0 and in the lab core scale, it's less than 4.0 so she's at 21 so she's five times normal in the anti Thyroiditis, and she's about four times normal with the thought TPO Thyroiditis. We jump on these if they're positive by one point. We don't. You don't want your patients. If you find that they have the immune issues, you don't want them to develop a full blown autoimmune thyroid disease. It's a miserable existence. And what happens is, is that lymphsites replace the thyroid, the normal Thyroiditis, and that's scar tissue that you can't, you can't, you can't unring that bell. So if we find Autoimmunity at age 25 at a low level, we jump on it right away. Because if you come back five years later and don't do anything about it, this 144 is going to be 644 and at that point, we're pretty much stuck. So, so like I said, it's seven times over the optimal level, and we even though the thyroid function is normal. So, so Hashimoto's Thyroiditis is your immune system has been triggered, and your thyroid function is low. Graves disease is your immune system has been functioned, and your thyroid function is high, so there's sort of the polar opposites of each other, although there's there's a bit of a different pathophysiology in the background. But we emphasize the Hashimoto's Thyroiditis because it, it is the most prominent 98% of the of the Thyroiditis that you're going to deal with are hypothyroid, low thyroid. And almost all of the by the time someone gets to see someone like us, almost all of it is going to be hypothyroid from with your from your immune system. So I tell the patients you know, it has an exotic name for us, Hashimoto's, because it was discovered by a doctor Hashimotos in Japan in 1912 if it's hyperthyroid, it's a Graves disease discovered by Dr graves. I'm just sorry that Dr naryo didn't get there first, so it would be narrows disease or Dr Burgess. So there's PHY'S. Phase one is a genetic Predisposition and triggers like Epstein Barr gluten, and the thyroid function is normal and the antibodies are normal. And the first symptom is anxiety and unexplained anxiety that comes on over several days to several weeks and lingers and does not is not alleviated by our usual you know any, any anxiety agents, particularly the benzos. And remember our patient when we started, what was the first thing that she started complaining about? She complained that she had all of a sudden, age 18, she started having anxiety. PHY'S two this is when the immune infiltration begins. The antibodies are now positive, but the thyroid function is normal. So you'll see this quite often. And you know thyroid function is normal, you'll see a TSH of 2.4 2.6 even 3.1 and the patients, that's all that's looked at, the patients, are told that they're normal, even though they have the all of the symptoms of, you know, thyroid, autoimmune thyroid disease, the lymphsitic infiltration has begun, and you can see it on an ultrasound. Phase three is a overt hypothyroidism. The patient will have a high TSH, a low to normal free t3 and t4 phase four, the immune system is taken over. There's usually other autoimmune issues, particularly in the GI tract and also in the eyes, they get dry eyes, or children's disease. And stage five is burnout, and the thyroid, basically is non functional. So those are the five phases. Most of the patients you're going to see, you know, they'll show up in phase two. And if we can turn the clock back and turn the Thyroiditis back to normal, that's you're doing your patients, that a huge service. And don't listen to it's TSH or nothing, and it's, it's, you know, Levothyroxine or nothing, and diet doesn't matter. Those are not true. And there's nothing you can do about the Thyroiditis. Those are aren't also aren't true. If any of you want to, want to, want to, are really interested in thyroid function and thyroid disease, one of the webs, one of the the websites that I actually sort of subscribed to, is something called UK thyroid so UK Thyroiditis, out of, out of, out of Great Britain. And it's patients basically writing in about their Thyroiditis. And it'll make your hair stand on it. I mean, it's just one after another after another. You know, they have a national health service there, so they're only allowed to do certain things. And, I mean, it's, you know, the GPS don't know anything. The Endocrinologist will only look at TSH. They have to go to private clinics, you know, to get a free t3 done. I don't see any of them. I don't write. And I used to write in and give some advice for a while, but it got to be too overwhelming. Or, I mean, I could spend 12 hours a day doing that, they I don't see anything there about low dose Naltrexone. I don't see anything there about the diet, really. I don't see anything there about, you know, immune modulators, nothing. So I get it, get it as in an email every morning, and I usually want, I usually read one or two of them. But you know, if you want to see this really. See the scope of it. Look at something like that. It's called UK thyroid. So what are we going to do here? The TSH is 3.1 which is normal. The TPO is 144

Bill Clearfield  1:45:45
most of your conventional doctors won't even look at this. They won't even know that this is a problem. And how would you interpret these results? What would you do next? So anybody want to chime in

Unknown Speaker  1:46:01
plant Sterlings? Maybe,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:07
yeah, that's what that's that's what we're going to do. So, so who wants, who wants to just stick with the TSH and we'll monitor it. I mean, it's normal, right? We're going to monitor it. How about thyroid replacement? Would you? Would you, would you? Would you use any type of thyroid replacement? Suppose she tells us that, you know, she's tired all day long, and her skin is dry in

Speaker 4  1:46:33
her hair. Do a low, low dose. Do a low dose.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:38
Would you use Levothyroxine, or would you use the the combinations, HOMA, the combination. We like the combinations, but your medical board is going to say, Doctor, Doctor antoli. You're a quack. You're not you're using unstable Metabo medication. You know, these are unstable. They're going to cause heart disease, and it's going to be removed by the FDA, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's that's coming also

Unknown Speaker  1:47:11
desiccated, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:14
there used to be the it hasn't been around since 2020, there used to be one called Nature thyroid. Nature thyroid had calcium and magnesium in it. Also, it's gone. I know, yeah, it's gone. I know it's gone. But what's one of the side effects from Levothyroxine patients that are on Levothyroxine for, you know, six months a year, two years. What's one of the side effects?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:45
I just gave you a hint. I just gave you a hint.

Speaker 6  1:47:48
They always have to increase the dose. It's always suppressing the thyroid, and they go up the doors, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:55
Well, anxiety, well, osteo osteopenia, osteoporosis, right? Yeah, all right. Why is that? Is that really a side effect of the medication? I think

Speaker 6  1:48:09
because they don't take the Titres or something. They don't take the combination.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:14
What is the thyroid? What does the thyroid produce?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:20
Para, thyroid hormone? No, this affects it.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:23
Well, it does. The thyroid produces t1, t2, t3, t4, and calc Tonin right calconin stimulates calcium production, side effect of Synthroid, Levothyroxine, and even, you know, the desiccated Thyroiditis, ocpsr, OCPs. Well, is it really a side effect, or are we just not replacing the calcium that the thyroid, you know, stimulates. Think about it, root causes, first, the gut, the gut, the nutrients and the toxins, and again, a combination. So obviously we're going to do all of these things. So the point of all of this is that you can't just look at the thyroid and say the TSH is normal, go home. It just, you know, I mean, it's done that way, and that's why, you know, the the Endocrinologist don't like us, because the patients come to us because they're not getting any answers, and then when they get better that, they go back to the Endocrinologist and they they tell them, No, you're not any better. They don't know what the hell they're talking about. So there you go. Okay, it is 642, and I got 20 in it. 20 anything in the chat that to discuss?

Speaker 4  1:49:45
No, no, I don't think so. I think everyone's been answering your questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:51
Okay, so here's your normal range, 0.545 to 4.5 there's been some talk I've over the years that it shouldn't over anything over 3.0 would be considered hypothyroid. Remember, it's an inverse. The 4.5 is low. The 4.45 is high. Our optimal we really shoot for about 0.8 to 2.0 that's when the patients feel good. And there are risks when the TSH of various entities, you know, in isolation of high cholesterol, hypertension, progression to overt hypothyroidism, our patient is 3.1 and she's already, you know, in that danger zone by our integrative standards. This is a chart. This actually, I think this came from Dr Brownstein. I think it was in one of his books. And so I like to put this up so that patients can see, you know, TSH is 3.1 so she's here somewhere. And then the free t3 if she This is here, it should be here, but if it's here, then we're really not converting. And if it's here, then, you know, then she's compensating. So this is, this is sort of make a good visual, okay, autoimmune, you know, understanding Hashimotos. So it's your immune system, is, is, is has been, is triggered, and your Thyroiditis running low. We talked about the PHY'S already. I'm not going to go through them again, laboratory findings. And we talked about the cortisol, or stress hormone. Remember, I, I like to use the reverse t3 as a as a proxy for it, and cortisol, I think normal is seven to 22 here she's at 18. The reverse t3 is at 13. If they have symptoms again, when they wake up in the morning, they're tired. In the middle of the morning, they need something to keep them going. In the afternoon, they need a nap. Dinner time, they're exhausted. Later at night, they get a second wind, and then they have trouble sleeping. And their sugar and salt cravings, those are the symptoms. And if you ask those questions, you're going to find 30% of your patients are going to tell you, yeah, you know, what are you looking in, hanging outside my bedroom window, watching me? They're amazed that someone could actually come up and you know, with sort of their lifestyle, low stress and high cortisol increase the conversion of t4 to in an inactive t3 instead of the active t3 this is kind of the brake pedal. It slows metabolism. Remember that our patient here has psychological trauma, or the HbA axis is probably with a key. So. the root causes of polycystic ovaries, an Hashimotos, thyroiditis. We talked about infections. I did. I might have missed mold. There's another one, mold and Mycotoxins, Halides, Halide, Mimicry. So remember, iodine, fluoride and Bromide are all chemically similar, and in our medications, the GI function our leaky gut. So remember, 80% of the of the of the of the our immune cells live in the gut, especially the small intestine. The leaky gut drives immune activation. Intestinal Permeability allows toxins and food articles to enter the bloodstream. Trigger the immune activation against the thyroid, and the most common cause is your standard American or SAD diet, chronic stress, food sensitivities, and I didn't even put on here again, psychological trauma. Okay, the molecular Mimicry of gluten, Casein and thyroid we already covered that the immune system is primed by the gut permeability. It Misidentifies thyroiditis as a foreign substance attacks it, along with the gluten and Casein, research demonstrates that increased intestinal permeability is a key factor in autoimmune thyroid development, with gut barrier dysfunction preceding Autoimmunity activation. So this is where she gets her rashes, or skin rashes, heavy metal toxicity, Mercury Phthalates and endocrine disruptors, receptor blockers, so toxins that physically block thyroid receptors, creating a state of cellular hypothyroidism, even when the blood levels are normal. So the blood levels are normal, but it's not getting to the tissues. If you're a sushi lover, be wary of mercury, also dental fillings, psychological trauma, adrenal burnout, where the body can no longer maintain the hormonal balance. Chronic cortisol elevation, sustained stress response, depletes adrenal reserves over the years. And thyroid resistance, high cortisol desensitizes thyroid receptors and compounding the hypothyroid symptoms. So at this point, we've identified seven root causes, and which order do you want to go in? And I know it's getting late, especially back home, back back East. So again, we're going to look at the at the gut. You know, gut first, then we're going to look at nutrients, then we're going to look at the adrenals. I know the IFN likes it the other way around. And then we're going to look at detox, then we're going to look at infections, and then we're going to look at the Halides. You know, in reality, you're probably going to do most of these at the same time. You know, it go by the SIBO, by the prioritize what the patient's symptoms are. So here's our integrative protocol. We want to eliminate the triggers. So remember the bad guys, gluten, dairy, soy, corn and sugar, the primary drivers of gut permeability and molecular Mimicry. You're going to heal the gut. We're going to use bone broth, fermented vegetables. Budwig's snack is a combination of, usually cottage cheese and either olive oil or coconut oil, and you can put in some chia seeds with it also. This was developed by Joham Budwig, who was the Minister of Health in West Germany in the 1950s DOB, 50s limited. You want to limit your Goitrogens again, three to six servings per week, if you can, and they should be cooked. And remember, it's your cruciferous vegetables that are the main culprits here, your gut healing program, your four R's. So you're going to remove the bad guys, caffeine, alcohol, and you know, the bad guys that we already talked about. You want to repair them with clean Whole Foods. We're going to put make sure you get some omega three fatty acids. So oily fishes, salmon, mackerel, are the oily fishes. We're going to use some GI mucosal healing techniques. We're going to use some aloe vera. Some patients will are okay with turmeric. Some people, some patients will react to it. Evening primrose oil, l Glutamine. There are most of the supplement companies will make a nice powder that has a lot of these in them. I'll give you mine. Since, again, I don't know what happened to the CME 's, so I like Glutamine shield from Ortho molecular. It has l Glutamine in it. It has DGL, DGL, licorice in it, which is good for sort of upper GI and heartburn, peptic ulcer, symptoms, it has some aloe vera in it, and it has, those are three main ingredients, probiotics, fermented foods. I'm not a big fan of kimchi. I don't like it, but we like kombucha and a plain yogurt. And then, you know, not the flavored ones and not the sugared ones, and then digestive enzymes and bio salts for digestion. So you can do in full elimination diet and start all four 's all four are simultaneously. You can do it as a phased in program, or you can start with some food, do a food sensitivity test, especially if they've been added a long time, and sort of personalize the diet by looking at what the patients are sensitive to. She had an A Ferritin of nine, so we need to replace the iron. And this is low enough. I mean, if she is symptomatic enough, you may even want to think about some IV iron infusions for her to sort of get her up to speed, the more quickly, selenium and iodine are your main ingredients that create the thyroid molecule, and they're crucial for the t4 to t3 conversion to happen. They also will reduce the thyroid peroxidase antibodies. Zinc and magnesium are two of the nutrients that will get depleted also with with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. If you want to do measurements, though, you need to do the red blood cell measurements, not the serum measurements. The serum measurements really don't tell us much you need. Red blood cell, zinc, red blood cell, magnesium. These support thyroid hormone production and improve insulin sensitivity, B 12, folic acid levels, and again, to the serum levels usually are, especially if they're taking a B complex are usually fairly high. That doesn't tell the whole story. You need to look in the CBC and the differential. Look at the MCV mean corpuscular volume. If the mean corpuscular volume normal is 79 to 97 if it's over 9798

Bill Clearfield  1:59:41
99 I've seen it as high as 105 that's those are big empty cells. That's a B 12, folic acid deficiency with an MCV over 97 if the MCV is under 80, that's usually an iron deficiency. Usually, we'll, we'll replace. If we do replacement, we'll use methylated B vitamins. These. A lot of these patients will have a methyl methylation defect also and in vitamin D 50 to 80 's usually our goal. Vitamin D will modulate a gut immune balance for every 1000 units of vitamin d3 replacement, the vitamin 25 hydroxy vitamin D level should go up by about eight points. Okay. Ferritin. Ferritin of nine is extremely dangerous. Iron deficiency will exacerbate the hypothyroidism. You need iron to distribute the t4 to t3 low iron is a primary cause of failed thyroid. Thyroid optimal 90 to 110 at less than 40, the patients are going to have fatigue and hair loss, even if they don't have a frank anemia. Vitamin D will also help regulate gut immune function alongside it and vitamin D will support the tighten those tight strength and the tight junctions. Iron has three major forms, heme, which you will get in meat, seek feed, food and poultry. Nonheme, which is plant food and legumes, and inorganic, which is iron fortified foods. We want to check your iron status, you can do a total iron, total iron binding, capacity transfer and saturation Ferritin, as we've seen before, hemoglobin, there's a genetic test for Hemochromatosis, for high for high Ferritin levels. And so hfe is your Hemochromatosis genetic marker. Blood. Iron levels. Can underestimate tissue iron levels by up to 1010, fold. Remember, you want to look at your so for blood iron levels, you want to look at MH. That 's also part of your differential, your CBC with differential so the MH is also a cell sized 27 to 33 is considered adequate. Anything under 27 or over 33 is usually an iron deficiency. For both for the MCV, anything less than 80 is an iron deficiency. The gold standard, of course, 's liver biopsy. You can do MRI for liver iron concentrations. Also, these are the RDA 's for men and women, eight milligrams a day for men, 19 to 50 years old. Women, 18 milligram 's a little bit older, down to eight milligrams and you need 27 for pregnancy. So I just use that for reference, for you, hormone optimization. How we doing on time here, everybody hanging in there, we still good. Anybody still out there?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:55
Am I talking to myself? Do I have to go? My Talking to myself here? No, but I would, I wouldn't go

Bill Clearfield  2:03:04
past seven, though. Okay, so we got five minutes. Should we do questions now? And I, what I'll do is, we're on slide, 67 Victor, we can pick it up. You know, another time, maybe

Speaker 4  2:03:17
the beginning. Yeah. No, no, no problem. I gave

Bill Clearfield  2:03:21
everyone my slide. So the idea was for you to jump in here. So you jump in here now, and we'll pick

Speaker 4  2:03:26
this up another time. No, I mean, basically, what I wanted to say is that I hope you guys downloaded my slides. I have mostly focused on orthopedic medicine for the past 25 years, and traditionally trained the Osteopath and family practice. And I was, I had very, I think, traditional training with endocrine and Gyn ecological stuff, and Dr Clearfield really pushed me to delve deeper into this and and I think I really enjoyed trying to kind of delve into the genomics of PCOS and Hashimoto 's. And what you really see is that it's a polygenic, multiple allele type of syndrome, PCOS. So not everyone's the same, I mean, and that's clear with this patient, and that's what I saw, that she had one particular aspect of her PC 's was the hyperandrogen and typical high H, low FSH, and the, you know, the high cortisol. So the hormonal aspect of it was very clear, low vitamin D, and so things you could see were very obvious for her, but she didn't have the, you know, the hyperinsulinemia, the the insulin resistance, part of it. She's not obese, and so it's very it's very interesting to see how the genomic 's manifest in a human being and and you could use this, if you actually go through the testing and interpret it, use it as a pinpoint way to address your patients issues, because, you know, the genomic 's are obvious, and they're unique for each individual, and those slides kind of Tell them a big picture of how there's an overlap between the autoimmune thyroiditis and PCOS. It's really interesting to look at, and they're they're free to look at. I I don't need to talk. I did my work Titres for those slides. I learned a lot because of you, Bill, and I really appreciate you, and I'm sure everyone else does. I hope so anyway.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:49
So if not, we're going to pick on Dr Quinn, okay, so in the chat here, so Jeanette has 10 to 20 milligrams of lithium orotate may help. But remember, we're talking about PCOS. Remember, if we're talking about thyroid. Remember lithium, even the lithium orotate was weaker than, you know, the prescription lithium 's can interfere with the conversion of t4 to t3 so we need to be a little bit careful with that. It's so and then Steve says to take the thyroid medicine with LDN together. Or, you know, we do use them, you know, in conjunction with each other. It's not that there's an inaction, but we recommend that the thyroid medication, when you take it, you take it by itself, and not take it with the low dose anything else. So I'm not sure if that, if you mean taking them together at the same time, or using them, you know, in conjunction. So I'm not sure about that. Dr naryo,

Speaker 2  2:06:52
you have any any thoughts on that? I separate. I use LDN at night

Bill Clearfield  2:06:58
and then thyroid in the morning. So, I mean, that's what I do. You have to separate, yeah. So, so I didn't mean it to you to interpret that we don't use other other entities, particularly low dose Naltrexone with thyroid medication. It's just that we when they take them, we take them

Speaker 2  2:07:17
thyroid by itself, though there are variations of LDN intakes. Now it's not only at nighttime. I have patients who takes it also during the daytime, just because there are side effects like Vit dreams. So if they have that, the option to take it during the

Bill Clearfield  2:07:33
daytime can be entertained. So, so, so if you go by the the LDN gurus, if they so, 10% of three, three major side effects from low dose Naltrexone. One is insomnia. 10% of the patients get have insomnia. You'll know about it pretty much right away. So what the LDN trust recommends is that you you back off every two hours, have them use it two hours before bedtime, if they're still awake, then two hours before that. Quite frankly, for me, that's too complicated. I just tell them to take it during the daytime. It's not sedating. It's not that you're giving it to them at night, for them to, you know, to help them sleep. What it does is it blocks the opioid receptors for about six to eight hours, depending on the dose. While the opioid receptors are blocked, our body reacts by making a beta endorphin when the opioid, when the LDN, wears off in, say, eight hours. Then our body, we're loaded up with the with the endorphins. And you know, which is the most potent anti inflammatory that we make naturally. The thought is that if you take it at night, by the time you wake up in the morning, you're ready for your day, and you're loaded with your with beta endorphin. But 10% of the patients, who keeps them awake. Second side effect is some nausea that usually is not permanent. I've had maybe one or two patients. I've been using this stuff for 25 years. 30 years, one or two patients, not that I can think of that. You know, we made them so so ill that they stopped taking it. Since we've been using the GLP one 's, you know, when our weight with our weight loss things, one of our recommendations is that we've been using either fresh or pickled ginger with it, with the medication, with the GLP one 's. And that's that's done a tremendous job of cutting down on the side effect, on the GI side effects. It works quite nicely, especially with the with the mini doses we almost get, almost we have, less than a half percent of patients have to stop because of the GI side effects. So we started recommending the ginger for the for those patients too, and it's for the LDN patients if they get nausea. And that seems to work out quite nicely. The third one, I haven't quite worked out what to do about the books. Call it vivid dreams. It's, it's nightmare. 's about 20% of the patients get nightmares, and some of them can tell you some pretty wild stories. We've had a few patients, you know, said that, you know, the nightmares are too terrible and they stop it. But not too many. Again, probably less, less than, less than than a handful a dozen in 25 years. And LDN is my second line usually approach for for the immune system, number one is the plant steroids. The magic here. And just to let you know, if you think it's something exotic, somebody brought in something called, there's a an over the counter cholesterol supplement called cholesterol, which is pretty popular, and you've heard of that one, doctor, Mario No, no cholesterol. Me. Cholestaff is, is the same ingredients as Maia care. It's, it's plant sterol, Lymphs. It's the exact, the exact same, same ingredients. No, it's been around for a long time.

Speaker 6  2:10:51
So I think it's, we call it the like cholesterol mean.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:58
Cholesterol means is different. Cholesterol mean is a binding agent. Oh, yeah, yeah. How does prednisone affect a t3 again, it will interfere with the conversion of t4 to t3 so yes, you'll get a lower t3 there. Dr Serna already put that so can I show the slide before conventional versus integrative thyroid. Let me finish these and I'll go back and find them. Okay, radon, I not sure what. There's a comment there. Dr Klausner, okay. Genomic approach. You shared the slides here correct. Make sure I get a copy of them. Okay, I can't click. I sent them to you yesterday. Oh, you send them to me. Okay, Spironolactone, how long to expect some improvement? We usually see pretty quickly, maybe two to four weeks. It works pretty, pretty, pretty quickly. There and good. There you go. Very comprehensive, good analysis, important information. Dr Klausner, thank you. Scoring of the thyroid. Remember, if you, if you don't, don't approach the immune system, the lymph, the lymph cells take over. The thyroiditis is good as good. Okay? For the slides, okay, there we go. Spironolactin two to four months. I see it quicker. So high reverse t3 can be indicative of toxicity as well, yes, but 90% of the time it's a, it's a, it's a cortisol stress. Well, toxicity will have cortisol and stress also 90% of the and I have a reference for you, Doctor Gyn, if you need that is cortisol 's abnormality. I avoid l Glutamine and anxious patients, they they may be converting to glutamate, okay, especially if cancer is involved. Did you test for

Unknown Speaker  2:13:14
Homocysteine? Did we get Homocysteine on her?

Bill Clearfield  2:13:16
No, Alright, that was on the next set of labs.

Speaker 4  2:13:21
Okay. Could there be another her CVC was totally normal, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:13:28
So, yeah, yeah. So sometimes you can get a hint on the Homocysteine when you're looking at the MCV, if the MCV is large, that that goes along with, you know, a methylation issue. And so if you don't have the Homocysteine, you can, you can, you sometimes get a hint there. Mm, could it be? Well, I mean, there's, could be lots of excoriations, of anxiety, but, you know, looking back, you know, seven years, and now she's has, you know, full blown Hashimoto's thyroiditis, we can say, aha. You know, that was, that was, that was the start. The trigger was probably her, you know, her traumatic experience, so And, okay, I would probably start her with I LD, oral potassium, low dose oral potassium, or progesterone, rather than cycled. But the problem with that is, you know, we're going to end up with a an abnormal cycle again. And one of the things that we try to do is to, is to, you know, to, you know, sort of get her to become regular again. One thing that I mentioned in passing that is very effective in restoring menstrual cycles, not just for polycystic ovulatory but for pretty much any either, you know, anovulatory oligoovulation, as long as it's a functional thing. I mean, if they have cancer 's or something, that's another thing. But the Myo Chiro andositol, it has to be a 40 to one ratio. Is is quite effective in restarting the menstrual cycles.

Speaker 3  2:15:14
I just haven't found that in practice, I've been able to give low dose oral progestorones Someone like her. So it gives her when you say, look what, like 50 milligrams, how much 50, and I might even make it Sr, gives them, like a constant supply of progestorones, and they still will cycle. They'll start cycling more regularly.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:39
What about using, like, 200 milligrams of progestorones for 10

Speaker 3  2:15:43
days and then stopping it. I mean, you can do it that way, but I think that the giving her low dose every day benefits her to have, you know, little bit of progestorones every day, which is myelinating. 's very calming, right? You know, like, you know, we don't go from zero to 50, right? You know, we should be having a little bit of progestorones in our system all the time. So I find it that it's very comforting to them and it doesn't interfere with their cycle.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:15
Can get going again. Okay, see, this is why we wanted to do

Speaker 4  2:16:19
this as a sort of an interactive thing. Have you ever used the 50 milligrams, and then tried to cycle like an extra 100 on 14 days, 14 through 28

Speaker 3  2:16:31
something like that. I mean, you could, if you think she needs it, but, yeah, you could definitely, you could definitely, I've definitely done that. Start with 50, and then you can decide, you know, if you want to also add cycling in there. Okay, you know, with a higher dose for 10 or 14 days,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:50
do you use it on the skin

Speaker 3  2:16:52
or oral? I usually do oral because I want it to cross the blood brain barrier, like for, for, especially for a person like her

Unknown Speaker  2:17:02
with the anxiety and topical on the skin. It's not crossing

Unknown Speaker  2:17:09
the blood brain barrier, correct?

Bill Clearfield  2:17:14
Okay, and then Dr Cerna, you put in here about lithium and crime?

Speaker 3  2:17:20
Yeah, there was a really interesting study in Texas when we were having this really crazy, crazy violent crime problem. And they studied the water, found it like absence of lithium. And so it wouldn't, shouldn't be a problem here in Nevada, because we've got lithium all over there's a map on that link that I gave you. But if somebody uses reverse osmosis, which is lots of people here, it will remove the lithium and so, and I don't know that you could test like a baseline lithium in somebody like because I think what's optimal is very low level. But you could, and I do find it helps therapy, especially in an

Bill Clearfield  2:18:06
area I know they don't have, you know, when they're using, you know, lithium for depression,

Speaker 3  2:18:11
which is much higher doses, and much higher doses, like 10 times at least. So it's, again, it's another example of optimal versus, you know, the therapeutic levels that people might give somebody,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:28
Okay, doctor and totally says, you put radon in the chat, because in the conference of medical excellence, hey, remember us, they said that in Nevada, the level of radon is very high. I thought that the level of uranium might be high because of radon, or is it the other way around, the chicken and the egg? Is the radon high because of uranium? Or is the uranium high because of the of the radon?

Unknown Speaker  2:18:48
Uranium 's high because of the radon?

Speaker 3  2:18:51
I think, well, it doesn't uranium become radon, right? And that's what we pick up. And the detectors, like in the machines, pick up radon.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:04
I'm not the radon expert here. I have to call Chris

Unknown Speaker  2:19:06
Kelly for that, so I

Speaker 4  2:19:07
think that's how it is. So hey, Bill, I have to get off. Just going

Bill Clearfield  2:19:11
to wish you guys a good night. Okay, thank you so much. I hope this was I hope everybody you know found this. It was a little bit different. I hope you found it interesting. Thank you. Thanks for participating. Thank you, Victor, course, I think we'll be back with a regular schedule next week. I'll put the my slide 's on online also, so you can have them and Victor, you sent me. You sent me those. So we'll put them both on there. Okay, and we'll have the video on anybody else have any any I mean, I can stay on for a while. Anybody else have any comments or questions, and then I'll find the time, you know when, when to do the last like, you know, 15 minutes or so. I mean, unless you want to hang on, and I'll do it now. But you know, it's getting late, especially if you're back East.

Unknown Speaker  2:20:05
Good hands. I guess they I mean,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:09
I can stay. You want me to finish either way? Dr Naria, what do you say?

Speaker 2  2:20:14
You're the, you're the co host here. No, go for it. They're they're demanding.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:20
They don't. We don't want to riot here. Don't, don't leave, don't

Speaker 2  2:20:23
leave you hanging, huh? Yeah, we don't want the chaos

Speaker 6  2:20:27
of the mob. This is, it's very interesting. It's a lot of information, very

Bill Clearfield  2:20:33
important information. Okay, so, so you heard what doctor Cerna says she uses low dose progestin. I usually use it the bioidentical I usually start at 100 milligrams, and I'll use it on days 14 through 25 of the cycle we've been doing this. I've been doing this a long for a long time. I'm going to give it some thought though, Dr Cerna, and, you know, maybe, maybe change my ways. But this is the way I've been doing it for now, the Myo Chiro, Inositol, and since we're not CME, I use ovacille. It's a little bit of expensive, but if you you can register with them as a practitioner and your patients. If your patients, you give them their the code, your patients will get a discount from them. There's other one. 's Ortho molecular makes one. You have to make sure that it's a 40 to one ratio. That's that's the key, though, that induces ovulatory and improves the insulin sensitivity. It's really quite effective thyroid replacement. We like the Desiccated thyroiditis, you know, the natural thyroiditis, over the synthetic t4 's. You know, here's your conventional therapy. This is your conventional thyroid treatment. If the TSH is greater than 10, you give them Synthroid. If it's 4.5 to 10, if they have symptoms, you give them Synthroid. If it's under 4.5 they're crazy, to send them to the psychiatrist and tell them to go home. And if you're using anything other than this t4 Levothyroxine, you're you're, you're a quack, you're out, you're, you're outside of medicine, by the way. So those are, those are the official pronouncements, as was as of like 2022 2023 I haven't looked at them recently. So does Desiccated thyroid. Natural thyroid has t3 and t4 in it. Remember, those are the t4 's, the storage hormone, Titres, the active hormone. We make it in a ratio of about four to 170, 8.2% t4, to 21 eight points percent t3 the natural thyroiditis that are on the market, np thyroid and armor thyroid are have the t3 and t4 in that ratio. You can also rig it by using Levothyroxine, and there's Leo thyroiditis or cytomel, and you can rig it. So CIT, Amel comes in five and 25 micrograms. And Levothyroxine, you know, comes in, I think, 12 and a half 25 and then, you know, all the way up to two or 300 so you can rig it. But physiologically, you wanted about four to one ratio of t3 to t4 there have been some studies. I didn't, I didn't put the where the reference was better weight loss with with the with the Desiccated, Desiccated thyroid, better mood, better outcomes. Optimal dose was achieved with free when free t3 is in the upper third of the normal range. So so we have our our patients now, 25 years old. She has polycystic ovulatory Hashimotos, thyroiditis, Ferritin of nine, she's got Amenorrhea. What are we going to do? We're going to use again. So Dr Cerna would use the progestin, 50 milligrams daily. I used 50 mil, 100 milligrams to start. I'll go up to 200 on days 14 through 25 we're going to start our on our thyroid replacement. We're going to correct the Ferritin and nutrients and then add some thyroid support, if indicated. So we're going to use some I like, iron, this glycinate we're going to use, usually, they come in like 28 milligram capsules. We'll use one or two a day, B 12 and folic acid, if indicated, and vitamin D, Myo, Chiro, Inositol, and then add thyroid. So which one of these do you like? If any, B, B, if she, if she has a Menorrhagia, I'll add in the Myo Chiro Inositol. Also. Okay. Lifestyle foundations for poly, for our polycystic ovaries, protein meals, first, lower glycemic load, 25 to 35 grams of meal when feasible. Of carbohydrates. Make sure we get some resistance training two to four times a week, and 10 to 15 minutes post meal, your 's better best for your aerobic activity, seven to nine hours of sleep. You want to make sure screen them for sleep apnea, especially if they're snoring and you want to do breathing, heart rate variability, yoga, CBT, any, any type of tools to reduce stress and physiological load. Your common supports, your Myo, Chiro, Inositol, that we talked about Berberine, DHT is bihyro Berberine. That's sort of a double dose that some companies are making now your omega three fatty acids, magnesium for sleep and stress. You know magnesium, there's lots of magnesium. 's we used to use magnesium taurate as a sedating salt. It's a little bit difficult to find. Now we use magnesium glycemia a lot. We try to stay away from the what's the one for to use in the colonoscopy clinic? Magnesium Oxide

Unknown Speaker  2:26:20
with the C citrate?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:23
Yeah. We try to try to avoid that, unless they're

Speaker 3  2:26:26
having some, you know, like constipation issues. Have you ever tried MHT? Tried mhtlate?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:32
I've had some patients that try it. They say they like it. I'm not sure where it fits, in the in the in the hierarchy.

Speaker 3  2:26:39
Enlighten us, oh, I've used it for as part of the

Unknown Speaker  2:26:42
protocol for Lymphs disease.

Speaker 3  2:26:45
Okay, I don't remember why. I couldn't remember how it works differently. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:51
And then vitamin D again, 50 to 80 is our goal. Psyllium to improve glycemia, managing testosterone excess. So Saw Palmetto for females. You want to use half the male dose, so 240 to 260 milligrams, once or twice a day. It is those act as an as a five alpha reductase inhibitor, and it will also decrease the conversion act as an aromatase inhibitor. Also not very strong, but it does, does work. My favorite and first go to is the one in the middle, Spearmint tea. Spearmint tea is an excellent, excellent five alpha reductase inhibitor. It will lower testosterone serum testosterone levels by 20% in less than a month. Wow. The key to it is so Spearmint tea, most, most teas have 70 milligrams of Spearmint in it. I know Lipton does, and the fancier ones do too. But the key is you need 100 milligrams of Spearmint tea. So you need a double bag. So a double bag of two tea bags in one cup of water, once a day, usually five, four to five days a week. It does get a little bit old at times you can use peppermint. It's not quite as potent, but Spearmint tea is an absolute game changer. And the patients look at you like you're crazy, and the doctors think you're nuts. And I said, Well, try, you know what? What's the worst that could happen? And on average, you will decrease your total testosterone levels by about 20% just with Spearmint tea. We've used N Acetyl Cysteine. So designs for health has a 900 milligram pill. So you need 1800 milligrams, so two or three times a day, if it's a 600 milligram pill, if you're running an IV, you know, do IV clinic. We'll do a 1200 to 1800 milligrams IV over about a half hour. And we'll do that once or twice a week, and usually after about four to six weeks. You know, the patient's testosterone levels are under control. With that for insulin resistance, we again, we've like Berberine. We like cinnamon and phenytograke Alpha. Lipoic acid is a pretty potent antioxidant. It usually comes with either Berberine or cinnamon. It also helps support mitochondrial function, and it's useful if patients have any type of peripheral neuropathy with, you know, from insulin resistance, the immune Modulates, so the plant sterile in so, like I said, Maia care. And there's another one, again, called wobozyme N. That's actually an enzyme. There's lots of woebozymes. It's made by Douglas. There's lots of different ones. You need the woebozyme in and you can deep this can decrease antibodies by the TPO antibodies by up to 90% and we've done that in my world. They don't measure it this way anymore. But in 2015 I had a guy come in to see me, and we did his TPO level, and they came out. It was from renown, 4226 and I didn't believe it. I sent another specimen. I sent it to access Laven, Florida, and they called me and told me that it was, you know, it was way over their limit. They couldn't quantify it. He's been with me. He's still with me. He's been 's now. His last TPO level was 101 and, you know, so that's over 90% a decrease. So we start out at 101 you know, we got a problem. You start out at 4200 101 looks pretty good. Low dose Naltrexone. You know, we have a whole lecture just on that. It Modulates over overactive immune response. It is potent against just about every cytokine known to man, and we use it for all sorts of Autoimmunity, neurodegenerative conditions. Thymosin Alpha One is an immune peptide. It reduces inflammation. It helps with advancing immune support and also helps to grow hair, by the way. So we talked about glutathione for detox. Milk thistle is a liver detox. Glutamine, quite frankly, is much more potent than milk thistle. Sometimes you'll see some supplements with products with a combination in them. If you're going to get used Glutamine, DOB, make sure that it's liposomal. As soon as it hits your stomach, the stomach acid will chew it up. If it's not liposomal, it'll help clear heavy metals. It's also quite potent in Parkinson's disease, the problem is that it's only short lived. It only lasts 48 to 72 hours, but it's very good at getting rid of the tremors and the sort of the muscle rigidity Parkinson's disease,

Speaker 6  2:31:31
but it's short lived. What dosage for Parkinson the glutathione?

Bill Clearfield  2:31:40
You know, I'm getting old. My hearing doesn't

Speaker 6  2:31:42
work so good. Anyway, I didn't hear you. Oh, yeah, I would like to ask, what does it do you use for Parkinson again? Glutamine, glutathione. Yeah, the glutathione, the we

Bill Clearfield  2:31:54
like, we like IV glutathione, and we use low dose Naltrexone. We do exosome 's, you know, if the patients can afford them, they know they're kind of expensive. So we've had some pretty good success with that. And spermatine is a is a supplement that is actually has some anti aging properties and it has some nerve stimulating properties. So we use that also environmental controls, HEPA, air filters, water filters. You all know that road road to recovery. So usually, within the first 30 days, we're going to do our adrenal stress thyroid evaluations. We're going to try to start to balance our estrogens and progesterone 's. And we're going to add in those are Myo Chiro, Inositol to address the anovulatory days 61 through 90. Usually, this is where we do the gut healing and strict elimination diet. If you have a different proto protocol, if you start with that, that's perfectly fine. That's That's where our 4r 's are. Nutrient Repletion days 31 to 60, also B 12, folic acid, vitamin D, and we want to, you know, replenish any Ferritin hormone optimization, you know, not too much, not too little. If they have food sensitivities, we start to address those. And then days, you know, 100, we kind of start all over again. So three months, we'll re evaluate, and we'll take it from there. So just kind of use that as a little bit of a backbone. So psychological component, you know? So Dr Klausner talked about, you know, the patient's PTSD panic attacks, and those need to be managed PTSD, and panic will hijack your HPA system. So any type of stress reduction, meditation, yoga, take a walk, punch a bag. The key is, if you don't address the root causes, the endocrine system 's not going to get any better, so you have to go after the root causes. Okay? So our subjective markers of what to look for is the brain fog lifting, or hair and nails improving. Also look at the eyebrows. The edges of the eyebrows with thyroiditis will start to thin out, or eyebrow 's becoming thicker again, has her menses and improved without the oral contraceptive 's Those are, those are our targets again, TSH 0.8 to 2.0 thyroiditis bodies. We want that to be less than 20 in from lab core, less than nine from Quest and any of the hospitals that use that scale. Ferritin, 90 to 110 free androgen index, two to four total testosterone. 30 should be less than 40. If the antibodies remain high, you make sure again, you want to look see if they have any infectious disease triggers, particularly parasympathetic and worms. Some of the infectious diseases to look at. I mentioned them already, Epstein bar that's probably number one, if they have a, you know, a reactivation of Epstein Barr from, this is from Dr Jacob Teitelbaum. He likes Celebrex and I say Acyclovir for 28 days, 200 million of Celebrex and 400 of Acyclovir twice, twice a day. And if you don't know dr Teitelbaum, he's the father of chronic fatigue syndrome. He wrote the first book on it, 1975 we had him at one of our conferences couple years ago. H Pylori, treating this has reversed some thyroid abnormalities, not all, but some so and this is, this is the one that we've actually treated. The H Pylori and the thyroiditis in some patients has actually been, we can actually say cured. It's been, it's gone. But not all Yersinia food poisoning is linked the Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Your so called exotic testing. So 24 hour urinary, urine for Halides, it'll says iodine, fluoride and Bromine status, that you can have deficiencies and excesses that can worsen Hashimotos, your functional stool test. So we look at the microbiome, we identify Dysbiosis pathogens, and it will also quantify digestive abnormalities. So pancreatic enzyme 's fat processing, immune deficiencies and excesses, calprotectin deals with the lower GI system. Those are all in the functional stool test. If you're going to look at nutrients, zinc, selenium and magnesium, make sure you get red blood cell or intracellular levels, not not the serum. Well, serum levels don't really tell us a whole lot. There is a Micronutrient panel. And again, since this was CME, I like spectra cell. It spells it out. It gives you 32 specific nutrients, including antioxidants, neurotransmitters, glucose, balance markers. There's the organic acid test. It may or may not be more more effective or more specific than the spectra cell test, but it's extremely hard to to interpret. You have to, it takes me two hours to sit there interpret it. I have to go through the book because they use sort of language that you know. Some of them you get to know Chiro retic acid, all sorts, all sorts of chemical names that are hard to pronounce. So again, to wrap up, there's your conventional model, failure to convert t4 to t3, inadequate nutrients. We're going to look at all of the triggers that we've we've discussed, find the root cause. Here's some references, and that's it. So, okay, so that's the end. We got 28 hearty souls left. Was awesome. Ran through it, yeah. So what do we got here? We got some more

Speaker 2  2:38:23
with this here. Let's see. Well, we probably need to emphasize to the group here that you can see, we lecture all the time about education. So this is where the rubber meets the road, and this is where we apply all of these concepts. It's easier now to understand if you actually practicing what you're doing. So hopefully we can see what a concept. Yeah. Well, hopefully we can see more of

Bill Clearfield  2:38:47
this and more engagement from our group. I don't know if you like this kind of kind of thing was this.

Unknown Speaker  2:38:54
I mean, we cannot even treat without

Speaker 2  2:38:56
this information. Yeah, it's application. We can listen all lectures in the world and not even apply them, but this is where we actually

Bill Clearfield  2:39:05
put it to work. What protocol for Lymphs? I'm going to leave that to you. Dr, Nario,

Unknown Speaker  2:39:10
the shake and bake of. Dr, you want that another time?

Bill Clearfield  2:39:19
The seizures, yeah, the seizures,

Unknown Speaker  2:39:24
the the code room hallucinations.

Speaker 3  2:39:27
Yeah, she was just asking what what protocol recommended the magnesium MHT that I refer to. I think that's why she was saying, what protocol for Lymphs. And so then I told her where I got it from, and then I quoted a global Lymphs.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:48
Not how it works, yeah, IV Glutamine. So I spent a little time with David Perlmutter. That's, you know, that's where I got my protocol. I got it from him. So, okay, okay. So, thank you. Dr Nario oral, there are no studies for IV, okay? Celebrex, I think I told you right, 200 milligrams Celebrex and anycyclovir, 400 twice a day for 28 days. So where do I get spectra cell? Labs drawn. So now what I do is I, I belong to Rupa. You know what Rupa is? It's one of those, like lab aggregate. 's, oh, no, we order, we ordered a spectra cell. The patients. Gets it from Rupa. Rupa sends them to a lab, wherever it is, and I don't have to

Speaker 3  2:40:43
deal with 's okay. That's what I wanted to do, is not deal with it.

Bill Clearfield  2:40:47
Yeah, yeah. I don't have to deal with it. So, yeah, before any of those I, you know, I had the kits in my office, and I patients would come and we draw the blood, send it out.

Speaker 3  2:40:57
I mean, that's, you know, that's what we do Texas. There was a place called any lab test now, and they had a contract with spectra cell, so I could just send the order over there, and they would totally take care of it, because I think it's got to be a special fridge too. It's home. I know

Bill Clearfield  2:41:14
it's been a while. I know they I know they had especially cold I think, yeah, they sent it. They sent a kit, and they sent the, you know, what, with the packet in. But I it's been a few years since I've done it like I said, you know, there's a couple of them. There's a vexies also do the lab thing. There's, there's one of them that, but you have to pay them, you know, to be a member of it, which, you know, who needs that? That seems silly. So Rupert, you don't have to pay them, right? And, you know, you can, you can have them charge you for it, if you're allowed to charge for lab tests, or you can just tack on a reading, you know, if you don't want to deal with any of the, any of this stuff, a lot of those tests are, I guess, insurance

Unknown Speaker  2:42:00
takes. This is Rupa.

Bill Clearfield  2:42:03
Rupa, are you? Are up? Yeah, Rupa health spectrum just made it much easier. I mean, they have, you know, I used to have accounts with Genova inspector cell and, you know, designs for health or doctors data. And now they all their tests are there. So, oh, Rupa,

Unknown Speaker  2:42:25
you go send

Bill Clearfield  2:42:26
them over. Okay? You type in, you know, you know, you type in, gi test.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:36
And there's seven companies. As you can see, these local, spicy and exotic dishes have been especially prepared for you by my famous chefs, they will be, what's that? What's that that's done watching YouTube videos?

Speaker 3  2:42:57
Who's watching the YouTube videos? 's funny, are we? Boivin, you? John, yeah, I don't add to the charge of these stuff. But, you know, who can add it to a separate fee in my own accounting?

Bill Clearfield  2:43:12
But I don't, yeah, well, you can put it on you can put the fee on there, and they'll send you the money. Yeah, it's kind of, kind of buried in the price there. So, so I don't know, I usually put $49 on there. I mean, I don't put a, you know, anything exorbitant on there, yeah. But they have the Dutch test on there. They have, you know, access labs 's on there, spectra cells on there. I mean, even the quest is on there. Now, oh, you can order

Speaker 3  2:43:42
anything from quest through them. So do you know where this place is and in Reno location, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:43:50
Rupa health, yeah, it's not in Reno I don't know. I don't know. It's their online software.

Speaker 6  2:43:57
They're out there in cyberspace to a for

Bill Clearfield  2:44:00
M conference. They, they, they, I mean, they have a drawing state, so there's a, there's a, an outfit called Cash clinical here, and they do, like, it's like a drawing station, okay? And also, you know, renown, draw it for you too, from them.

Speaker 2  2:44:20
Yeah, you just get your MPI Janet, and then you go to Rupa Health com, so you can open up your own account, okay? And then same for a full script. If you remember fullscript, they're now offering

Speaker 3  2:44:32
lab testing as well. Yeah, I did see that, but I haven't

Speaker 2  2:44:36
ordered anything through them, yeah, but not as extensive as Rupa. Rupa has, I mean, but they're merging, though I've been hearing about that, that Rupa and and

Speaker 3  2:44:45
fullscript will be merging soon. What's nice about fullscript is that they will let draw all the graphs and the trends in the system, which is really nice, yeah, but I haven't ordered anything from them exactly, for the reason why you're saying it's not very

Unknown Speaker  2:45:02
extensive, yeah. I mean, Rupa health still

Bill Clearfield  2:45:07
has had the most of it. So you know what happened? You know what happened

Unknown Speaker  2:45:11
with me in full scripts, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:45:13
Your cannabis thing? Yeah, that sounds like a crazy story. Well, right? Well, so we, we had changed our phone system, and it was maybe two to three months after the the AOA threw us out, and then they just, you know, someone was someone was after me. We came in one day. I came in one day, and all of our communications are shut off. The text messages, we had one phone line that was working, that was it. And everything else was done that the, you know, the text messages, the inter offers, everything, everything was shut off, you know. Well, first we thought, well, you know, there was a shorter electrical thing. So we call, and we had a new system, right? So we call the people are running the system, and says, Oh no, the the FTC has flagged you as being a marijuana dispensary that you're dispensing, suspensing marijuana illegally, and they shut they shut you down. So what are you talking about? Oh, marijuana dispensary, what do you? Are you? What do you? What do you, I don't have no idea what you're talking about, right? So they said, well, we don't know, so go try to find somebody to, you know, to get an explanation. So it took like, two weeks before I finally got somebody. Meanwhile, we got, you know, nothing, right? So somebody gets so we finally find somebody on the phone, and they said, Well, you're a marijuana dispensary. What are you talking about? So we had a full script 's account. And you know, when you put, when you open a full scripts account, you know, they make the website for you, and it's called Dr Clearfield 's dispensary. Oh, wow. So someone, and I suspect I know who it was that reported the as as running a marijuana dispensary, and that's what they use. So I said, so I called Full scripts. I says, Do you know anything about this? And they said, No, you know, if you go on their, on their, on their, you know, on their homepage, it says, we have 70,000 you know practitioners. You know running, running, you know, you know the dispensary that they have, right? So I said, Do you know anything about this? He goes, No. So I told them about it, and they actually did the legwork for me. They said, they said that designs for health had a one product that was econo. It was some sort of, it was some sort of CBD, you know, wanna be product. It said, you know, it kind of cannabinoid, something or other. It was a powder. So they decided that I was, since I had, I had a full script 's dispensary, and that was in full scripts.

Unknown Speaker  2:48:09
I was a marijuana dispenser. Oh, well, you're really desperate

Bill Clearfield  2:48:15
to to hang you. Yeah, I suspect I know who did it. It was one of the guys who stood up at the AOA meeting and told everybody that we were so backwards. We didn't have a website that our our programming, our program in Seattle, the program that we ran in Seattle, was really substandard, and, you know, it was an embarrassment to the AOA. What is AOA? I asked him. I said, you know, I've never been in Seattle in my life. What are you talking about? I haven't even been, I've never even been in the airport to change planes in Seattle. What is AOA American Osteopathic Association? You know, we're not the ndez matter. You know, I agree. You go, if you go on their website, they'll tell you about how they're the, the the progressive and and open minded Medical Society, you know, you know they're like AVH. You know they're not hurts, they're AVH. So, yeah. So anyway, so that was, that was me in full scripts. So I have full scripts, PTs, D start to shake bad.

Speaker 3  2:49:30
I was very relieved when they finally started doing this

Bill Clearfield  2:49:32
so I don't have to keep inventory. Yeah, well, there's that I actually like keeping inventory, so I

Speaker 3  2:49:38
don't, I don't. I mean, I don't mind it, but I've got other things to do, and I don't want to pay somebody else to do it.

Bill Clearfield  2:49:47
So, okay, we're going on two and two and almost three hours here. It's almost like a Halas a night. Well, thanks so much. I really like this format. Okay, so, so do it again. We'll get Dr Quinn to do one of these for us. Okay, so, okay, all right, everybody.

Speaker 6  2:50:06
Thank you so much. I want to join, I want to join Dr Halas

Bill Clearfield  2:50:10
a group too. They're on there. On Monday night,

Speaker 6  2:50:14
he told me to text him on his cell phone, but

Bill Clearfield  2:50:19
I got a link somewhere. I'll let him know. Okay, I'll send him your website or your email address, thank you. Okay, all right, have a good night. All right. Good night everybody. Okay. Bye, thank you. Dr Nario, thank you. Good night.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:34
Good night. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai