Bill Clearfield  00:58
Dr. Ketapang Are you in the Philippines?

Bill Clearfield  01:07
I don't know if you can answer me or not

Unknown Speaker  01:28
areas here you're muted.

Unknown Speaker  01:32
Hey.

Bill Clearfield  01:34
Yeah. So do we get to see the rest of you got anything on?

Speaker 1  01:39
Yeah, check out what I'm building here. Building a war gym I got I got tarps got a nice tarps for my gym. I got this contraption they're in building

Bill Clearfield  01:51
great so and what's it going to be what it looks like it looks like the old days it looks like an old oxygen tank that you know the kids that got pipe polio.

Speaker 1  02:02
Oxygen take we got that now that's a that's just the training facility. Here.

Speaker 2  02:11
Hey, Stefan, do you want me to borrow you my shirt or why? I have extra shirts.

Unknown Speaker  02:15
Yeah, extra shirt. No oxygen

Bill Clearfield  02:19
for Dr. Quinn over

Speaker 1  02:20
there. EOIs that's oxygen with exercise with oxygen therapy.

Unknown Speaker  02:25
Okay, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  02:26
Out here. Yes, training outside.

Bill Clearfield  02:29
You have people come in just they have like a key they can come in sort of like Anytime Fitness. Yeah, they

Speaker 1  02:36
have passcode for the gate. And then everyone has a customized code to enter through the door here.

Bill Clearfield  02:42
Alright, is that where you live? Do you live there?

Speaker 1  02:45
You know, this is my second home essentially, no, this is my medical office. This is the medical back here. And then this is the training facility that I give you the tour of the medical offices.

Bill Clearfield  02:57
You didn't have a hurricane there. Did you

Unknown Speaker  03:01
know it wasn't that bad. So let's

Bill Clearfield  03:06
hear all sorts of horror stories.

Speaker 1  03:09
This is the IV room. This is where we do we can do blood draws with LabCorp and even have an infant way and famous things kind of expensive it's like three grand but that way we can wait the infant's

Unknown Speaker  03:26
and then running your your house.

Speaker 1  03:31
No but it's not it is not my house but it's an it's a commercial building. But it looks like a house.

Bill Clearfield  03:38
It does look like a house. Yeah.

Speaker 1  03:41
Yeah, it's 100 year old building. And then this is my nurse practitioners office. Jason, he's got a room. And then this is where my wife he does the aesthetics.

Bill Clearfield  03:53
I'm still waiting to do your I'm still waiting to do your wedding dance. Weddings to your wedding. I know. I know. I didn't get to do the wedding. As far as I'm concerned.

Unknown Speaker  04:10
Right. You're already married already married?

Unknown Speaker  04:11
I don't know. What he was talking about. He's living.

Bill Clearfield  04:15
Remember, you don't remember before you got married with those. volunteered to teach your wedding dance.

Speaker 1  04:23
I'm still waiting. This is the waiting room. We don't really have really waiting and this is like a coffee Bistro. You can come here you can make espresso and we have another real alasa if you want to work for us. We have a room here I'm going to Zoom Room

Unknown Speaker  04:47
I'll show you what I just did with the front of the building.

Bill Clearfield  04:49
Now we got Ken Crowley with no shirt on.

Speaker 1  04:52
Hey look at this run with a little work area you can have coffee on here you can enjoy the scenery we got to go you can see the river the sun setting there.

Unknown Speaker  05:08
Nice. Check out what if you were here. I like that background.

Unknown Speaker  05:13
Look at Dr. Bill Madison is primary.

Unknown Speaker  05:17
Yeah, it looks good. Well, we

Bill Clearfield  05:19
start I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna show you guys I'm going to share my screen before we start when we get a few more folks. Just for a minute. I've had a rough week. I know last week I was out last week. I hit the

Speaker 2  05:38
doctor well yeah, why? Don't people hear you have three of them? New

Unknown Speaker  05:43
people? No, this is Melvin this. Melvin looks

Bill Clearfield  05:48
like Melvin looks like he got a haircut. He's letting the Fu Manchu grow a little bit. Yeah,

Speaker 3  05:55
of course gonna be today and presenting today.

Bill Clearfield  06:01
I was going to put it in the chat the link but if you have what you wanted you wanted to upload that since I Joel is not going to be doing it for a while. So

Unknown Speaker  06:12
I'll do it. I'll put a link in there. I'm cutting his hair too. Yeah, did

Bill Clearfield  06:18
Melbourne take the shirt off though so he'll be joined and Dr. Gates

Unknown Speaker  06:26
shirt off day. We're

Bill Clearfield  06:28
gonna change it we're gonna chase our Filipino doctors away if you guys keep

Unknown Speaker  06:33
Are you in the Philippines now than I am? I

Unknown Speaker  06:35
am right here. Well,

Unknown Speaker  06:37
show us

Unknown Speaker  06:38
a tour give us the world traveler dude.

Unknown Speaker  06:41
Oh, it's just a hotel room. That's it.

Bill Clearfield  06:45
Are they treat you like a rock star? He's not there. He's the keynote speaker at their international alternative medicine conference. All sounds

Unknown Speaker  06:58
like a lations

Unknown Speaker  06:59
Oh, thank

Speaker 3  07:01
you. Thank you. Well, we're present will represent USA and the Philippines today.

Unknown Speaker  07:07
That's great. All right. So

Bill Clearfield  07:11
I want to share something that you guys I don't usually I do I do. I took my own horn a lot or No, no,

Speaker 4  07:17
you don't. Okay, well, given a whole lot more than than your own horn. I

Bill Clearfield  07:23
want to show you something. I got an email today. And it's from it's a magazine the best of Sierra Nevada contest. I won gold for best weight loss center in Reno. Gold for best men's health, silver for women's clinic and bronze for best medical practice. So I congratulate

Speaker 4  07:47
but well, we we all wrote this for you. Well, that's cool. Okay, so, so I had everyone vote that I know up there for you. Thank

Bill Clearfield  08:00
you all and, and Melvin, you were a big help too. So I just wanted to share that with everybody. So yeah,

Unknown Speaker  08:07
congratulations, man.

Bill Clearfield  08:09
I can tell I can tell.

Unknown Speaker  08:11
So how am I gonna be worse?

Bill Clearfield  08:16
Yeah, so I can tell my mother that it wasn't a total waste. So So for 30 seconds I can be proud so there it is. And you guys will help of course so. So thanks a lot so we're gonna stop sharing now. We'll go back two guys up there's Dr. Quinn. He's got no no shirt on also.

Speaker 2  08:40
You got you got three people think your roommate will end up having the kind of delusional

Bill Clearfield  08:48
that he should give this talk with no shirt on

Speaker 2  08:53
our x rooms it'll be

Unknown Speaker  08:58
it's hot down here in Temecula?

Unknown Speaker  09:02
Yeah, Temecula as a hot place. It'll be

Bill Clearfield  09:04
it'll be the team. The team unit here

Speaker 4  09:06
we go. No shirt. And no, no yet in Vegas. No shirt Tuesday's Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:17
shirt every day. That is that better than Taco Tuesday

Unknown Speaker  09:23
by the people from Vegas here from Nevada.

Bill Clearfield  09:29
Yeah, there's a few. So, um, okay, well well, we got 20 That's, that's that's usually half at least half. I

Speaker 2  09:39
need another how many minutes? We will be there and four minutes. Can you give me another 10 minutes and entertain your crowd with your eye?

Bill Clearfield  09:50
I can entertain them. I don't know what I want entertaining. With John, you got any news from the great

Speaker 5  09:56
entertainer. And I can also see the 3456 Man I rely on and women are on this call because we need to get our research stuff gone. Yeah. Baby. So it's Melbourne back.

Bill Clearfield  10:11
No Melvin's. He's starting tonight. So he's going to, but he's going to put in the chat the link it's on Facebook right Melvin's line, the conference that he's at, why don't you to give us a little rundown on what you've been doing? And you know, I know what you're getting started in just a couple of hours, right? Yeah.

Speaker 3  10:31
So this is day one today. And I'll be well this is actually the day for the lay people. And this is for the public and we're gonna have like free admission for them. It's almost teaching them the tricks of the trade of integrative medicine and we have all of the integrative doctors here, and we have the celebrity integrative doctors here in this session for day one. And all of this further delay now it'd be the last speaker of the day, talking about high blood sugar, cholesterol and also blood pressure. And then on day two, I'll be talking about the cholesterol I upgraded my cholesterol lecture, the one that I did for you and Dr. Lawson is room and then I have also the fresh IPT study and also the new cancer vaccine study. From the forest I have cancer center, they'll be presenting also fresh from the press. So that's also going to be a good thing and hopefully I can present that to you guys when I get back there. And on the last day, I'm gonna give the guys here the tips of the trade for IV therapies in terms of how their IV rooms gonna be successful and RB practices. And for the other guys, they have other good stuff there from Singapore, Malaysia. So there's a lot of Southeast Asian doctors coming in here. And I think there's one from the US too. I just forgot her name, but it's gonna be a fun day of integrative medicine, Asian style, basically, basically Philippine style, and I can't wait to share it to you guys once I'm done with the event.

Bill Clearfield  12:14
Okay, so you're gonna it is being live streamed on Facebook. Correct?

Speaker 3  12:19
I think day one will be I'm not sure about other days. I have to clarify

Bill Clearfield  12:25
while you're there, see if you can bug him to do that.

Speaker 3  12:29
Sure. Well, I'm gonna I'm gonna hook some more doctors here and maybe groups even to our group here. So definitely we can go global and there is going to be a lot of international representation that I'm going to be seeing so I'm can't wait to connect out and just spread the good word that we're doing. So

Bill Clearfield  12:48
again, so we have a contact in New Zealand Now, other than the callow curb people. So Lisa Tamati. She'll be on in two weeks on on the 27th in two weeks. She's one of the top 200 influencers in New Zealand with her podcast and I was doing that and she'll be on with us in two weeks and I'm also talking to some folks in Australia so and and I have a have a feeler out for the British Osteopathic Association. So that part two,

Unknown Speaker  13:27
that's awesome. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  13:28
we're gonna we're gonna go we're gonna go all around and we're gonna we're gonna surround the those the those rats in Chicago and tell him we don't

Unknown Speaker  13:39
show them why you got no ha. So just

Bill Clearfield  13:41
let me show him what you got. I'm going to show one more time John missed it. And then I'll shut up and I won't say anything. So John, I got a an email today from this is like, you know, city magazine. Arena. It's Reno best the best of Sierra Reno. And I won gold medal first price and best weight loss clinic. Best Men's Health Clinic second in women's and third in best medical practice. So I still have a little bit of ways to go.

Unknown Speaker  14:11
Wow.

Bill Clearfield  14:12
So

Unknown Speaker  14:13
you're full on credibility.

Bill Clearfield  14:16
I'll set I'll send that to my mother. She'll be very happy with that. I feel like she got her money's worth it

Speaker 5  14:21
and you deserve that more and everybody in this whole crowd that I'm seeing on my screen here. We have some pretty amazing people. When Melbourne gets back from the other side of the world. We're going to start doing our little research project. And we are making connections around the world. We might not want to forget India. We have a billion there. And we have another billion in China. So we have links to those two places. relatively recently, and that's where I spent my past 30 years ago. And so we're gonna hook all these people up and that'll be fun.

Bill Clearfield  14:56
Those of you don't know my son lives in Mongolia. And when I look at the YouTube videos that you know where it comes from, we actually just about every week we have about five or six. folks looking at our video watching our videos from Mongolia so we have a few folks there also. And so so you know, we're getting out there slowly, even though we're still shadow bands. So and then down at the bottom there. I want to welcome Heather halus Heather, thank you for being with us. You're muted. So Heather. I met on Dr. Paul Evans. Homeopathic whatever that was. We're gonna have Heather I think it's September. Yeah. She's got some great weight loss. Weight loss products, right.

Unknown Speaker  15:51
That's right weight loss.

Bill Clearfield  15:52
She's got some things that I like really great. I've that I've never seen before. And they're a lot gentler than the stuff we're using. And they're they're really quite effective. So we'll be we can't wait for that and thank you for being with us tonight. We're waiting for Dr. Hall Asad to come back. And so

Speaker 3  16:19
your your best though? Yeah, well.

Bill Clearfield  16:26
Most of the top brass who put the kibosh to it they're all gone. Now they were they were gone within six, six months, most of them yeah, the CEO is one and then the the the head of the education department that she's gone and one another guy who was just in the education department he's going there's only one left and that was one that I actually got along with so that I know

Unknown Speaker  16:51
what comes around goes around. Yeah, so

Bill Clearfield  16:54
So that's, that's that so? So what do we have? What else do we have? So So again, those of you who have just got one? So Doctor, Doctor Nereo is that what is the name it official name of that the thing you're you're at

Speaker 3  17:09
the healing revolution. So it's, yeah, it's a one of the one of the once a year event that they do here, and it's in actually collaboration with another group of doctors that actually I think it's more of a medical surgical. So it's not basically integrative in a way that we're trying to also introduce them to integrative medicine. So that's why this there's a big expo hall here that is full of exhibitors, it's almost like a 4am like in terms of how big it is. That's why there's really a lot of like bouts of booths to go through. And you need probably one as as mentioned to me maybe like almost half a day just to go through it. So there's a there's a lot of freebies, I guess remember a forum when you get home with all these bags that you didn't have. When you before you got in there you go

Bill Clearfield  18:01
if you go to last morning before the before the vendors close up they just want to get rid of everything because they don't want to take it back. So if there's anything there you want I got five bottles a callow curb the last time I was there.

Unknown Speaker  18:14
Yeah, that's the that's the trick. Teach them how to do it.

Speaker 4  18:17
Yeah. So yeah, so Oh, plug

Speaker 3  18:20
for because we have an upcoming frm class. It's our hormone plan, women's hormone class on September. Let me get back to you on the dates but it's upcoming and it's an awesome we're going to be doing it online. And that's going to be the this September with so harshly then Dr. chynn. Dottie and Tara Scott, so all of us and I'm their junior faculty doing it.

Bill Clearfield  18:46
What are you doing? Again,

Unknown Speaker  18:48
we are women's hormone class online. Yes. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  18:54
So

Speaker 6  18:56
speaking of women's hormones, can I ask a quick question? Does anybody do 24 hour urine tests anymore on hormone levels? Do you? I know there's companies that do but just any any you guys recommend that for your patience?

Bill Clearfield  19:13
the only the only one is the the iodine test. Stefan's not paying attention off so No,

Speaker 6  19:21
I'm talking about the stuff like Meridian Valley does or Genova does those 24 hour tablets? I don't

Bill Clearfield  19:30
it tends to get messy and nobody nobody really wants to you know be walking around with a urine bucket for 24 hours. Oh

Unknown Speaker  19:40
man, that's half the fun.

Bill Clearfield  19:41
Yeah. You know, I find you know, we were doing when I first got out here, and we were doing saliva tests. And, you know, the medical board here said, Well, you know, that's not not real. You have to do blood tests. You know, if you go to a forum and I'm not sure about IFM but a forum you know, they know it's not accurate. You have to do saliva test. So I got pretty comfortable doing the serum tests. And I rarely need to look at anything else if you need metabolites. Those things there's that Dutch test. And that's what I think that's just for spot urines.

Unknown Speaker  20:17
Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  20:19
Yeah, I don't do the 24 hour urine ones like I said, it's i It's a little you know, renal failure. I think they do that. Don't they do that 24 hour urine collection for creating I mean,

Speaker 6  20:35
isn't isn't blood just a snapshot in time? I mean, I thought the hormones were pulse a tile. So

Bill Clearfield  20:40
if you get high levels, if you get them so if the patients are menstruating, we get them between days 19 and 21. That's when you get a you get you get a peak and progesterone and a peak at a secondary peak and as an extra die in estrogen estradiol. So that's a pretty good that's a pretty good look at that how things are going. If it's if it's if you're not sure if they haven't, you know, irregular periods, you know, and they're not so we'll I will do a 28 day saliva test. They get 11 I think it's 11 samples in 28 days, so one just about every other day, sometimes there's a third day, and then it will give us that graph like you, you know, when you get the menstrual graph, it'll give us that graph and you compare it you can compare it versus you know, the, the, you know, the the normal one and quite frankly, they're all the ones we get are always abnormal, because if they're normal, there's really no no recent to the eye. Exactly, yeah, to do them. So and that'll give us that'll give us an idea of sort of how to time where we want to go with with our hormones a little bit better, but I don't do that very much anymore. Like I said, I got pretty comfortable between doing, doing doing the serum tests. And, you know, some of it is experience. You know, I've been doing this for 25 years, so yeah, exactly. Yeah. I like to say I like to say I've made every mistake you can make with hormones. So we know we know, we know what not to do. Every night and we know how to fix we know how to fix the, you know, the mistakes that we make. Okay. One of the big education's just to let you know is when we started with Dr. Gordon and doing the traumatic brain injury patients, you know, because they are all extremely depleted. And when we were trying to fix everything yesterday, you know, we started with with full doses that that we got a lot of a lot of side effects and reactions from that. So we are not do that. And one of the things we learned was that, so we started with half doses and quarter doses. And one of the things we one of the things we learned is that a lot of times more than half the patients we don't need a full dose. They do quite well with even quarter doses or even half doses. So that's, you know, that that was actually a big revelation and those of you know that Joel, who's out he'll be on later. You know, Joel was my first head injury patient and we learned from him because you know, he told me a story and I wanted you know, I got all excited I was going to because I had just started Dr. Gordon's course at that time, I was going to fix it all in two weeks, and that ends not wanting to do so, you know, some of my mentors when I started seeing it take six months to two years to you know, sort of straighten everything out. You know, most of the patients don't want to wait that long. But, you know, we always tell them, three to six months is a reason you know, you need to give us three to six months before you decide, you know, what we're doing is not not worthy. And what some of the nice things about what we do is that none of it's permanent. You know if we have, you know, side effects or reactions that we you know, we can fix it. And you know, I think in the long haul, we have a pretty damn good track record, probably 90 to 95% of our patients so you know, or improved. I'm doing a just as an example. I'm doing a letter for a medical necessity for a patient and we had given them synergy, which is a supplement from numedica. And it has I got it right here. Basically it's cinnamon, chromium. It's got some ginseng in it alpha lipoic acid and Gymnema sylvestre curry, and fenugreek. is fasting blood sugar September of 2023. Was 103 is fasting insulin was 13 is I insulin resistance was 3.3 and his hemoglobin a one C was 5.43 months later, his fasting blood sugar was 100. His insulin was eight insulin resistance was 1.97 and his hemoglobin a one C was 5.2. And then in we just did we just did one June second so it's almost a year and it's his fasting blood sugar is 67 is insulin is six is insulin resistance is 0.99 and his hemoglobin a one CS 5.2. So you know, you know you're you're you're going to do as well with that as you will with metformin and so yeah, pulling numbers out really, you know, kind of gives us a perspective. The the, some of the ingredients here have some effect on especially triglycerides as triglycerides went from 115 to 53.

Speaker 6  25:45
What ingredient in there do you think? Was there something specific for that?

Bill Clearfield  25:51
I think Fenugreek and green tea extract it's also got some zinc and magnesium.

Speaker 6  25:57
Yeah. He have any dietary changes with this or just well, we

Bill Clearfield  26:02
put them on we did sort of that a middle middle of the road diet. We do a Paleo Diet forum. And I have those of you don't know I have that body site program. You know, we had somebody on there from last year we will do it again. It's really makes things quite easy. It's an online program and it has just about every dietary plan that you can think of in there. And all you need to do is put in an email address and it sends them recipes every day for two months, three months, and you can extend it if you want. It's $199 a month. You know, we were doing 2030 patients a month, actually now have a an intern, a nutritional intern, so we're starting to get her ramped up to she needs 1000 hours to get her license. So we got to 303 1000 hours. That's a lot. Yeah. So So yeah, so we put him on the Paleo diet and he was pretty pretty consistent. You know, pretty pretty. Follow that pretty nicely. So So just some of the things you know, if you don't look if you don't, I hadn't pulled these nuts numbers like this out until you know they surance company wanted wanted this letter. Now looking at this, they say that's pretty impressive. As fasting blood sugar went from 103 to 67, his insulin from 13 to six, and his insulin resistance from 3.3 to 0.99. Hemoglobin a one C wasn't bad to start at 5.4 But now it's 5.2. I mean, that's pretty good. For

Speaker 6  27:36
resistance, what are you shooting for in the insulin resistance level? I'm not

Bill Clearfield  27:39
we want at less than 1.9 Okay, okay, that's that's our that's kind of our goal there. And 2.9 is considered normal or optimal is 1.9. You guys need the formula. for that. It's fasting blood sugar times fasting insulin, divided by 405. That's the that'll that'll get you the unit's Correct. Less than 2.9 as normal, less than 1.9 is our goal. Okay, so and we're down to went from 3.3 to 0.99. I think that's pretty you know, that kind of speaks volumes there. So I'm sure the insurance company will reject it and tell them that it wasn't necessary.

Unknown Speaker  28:19
Yeah, we haven't they probably pay through some some

Bill Clearfield  28:23
data paid for gluten Glyburide or Januvia or something, right? Yeah, the cholesterol goes $300 a month. You know, this stuff's 38 bucks. And you get 120 of them. You get about I think he had two months out of it. This one's from new medic. It's got something in it called Jimmy. Well, it's got Jimmy Silvestri. We use that for our as first week you have a sweet tooth. Jimmy sylvestris works really nice. That and apple cider vinegar and and it's got Gynostemma in it which is a amtk activator. Yeah.

Speaker 6  29:05
That sounds great. Then that's called synergy.

Bill Clearfield  29:09
Cin and ERG Y Yeah, Dr.

Speaker 7  29:12
Norio put that you see my screen. Yes, we see your

Bill Clearfield  29:16
screen. Am I right done? here so you can get started. Okay. You're ready.

Unknown Speaker  29:24
I am. So for

Bill Clearfield  29:25
Dr. Hall ASA. So doctor, those of you who don't know is our chronic disease management person. He's looked like he's wearing a shirt. So I guess that's that's a person and and he's our He's our resident chronic disease person. I'm gonna let him introduce himself if you don't know who he is, and take it away.

Unknown Speaker  29:48
Thank you very much, doctor.

Bill Clearfield  29:49
Why does he say James Joseph under your under your name? Dr.

Speaker 7  29:52
Joseph next to me is my okay. My business partner. Yeah, okay. Go no I am his and his house on the cabana beach. My name was Dr. Halas Dr. Joseph James, and we live in heaven except that the EMF here it's around 1 million when the microwatt when the Wi Fi is open. So Monday we talked about the EMF toxicity. I'm going to add the EMF toxicity here and way that we can navigate in diagnosis and put it a part of the of the diagnosis for chronic disease. Prevention and prevention management. But this is the map the roadmap that we use, especially in diagnosis of chronic disease prevention and management, the C DPM, which is something that's been entertained by American Medical Association, as they find out that most of the specialists fail to manage multi systemic diseases especially like COVID 19, which your heads many systems and then they came up with this field of medicine. It happened I'm doing the same thing. They they upped upgrade or you can say redefine history, physical exam with their own what would their group is called TTPM group. They call it 360 BH or HP which is 360 History physical exam. And what they're trying to say is that it's not enough to take a history of one system, you need to take the history of all the systems of the body because they're all linked together. And if there's one is having a problem, it will affect that system of interest. So they're trying to ask us to develop residency fellowship program for this field of medicine. And it happened that I'm doing the same thing but I ended up redefining the way that we diagnose and manage the patients to consider those four pillars that we talked about many times redox metabolic immune regenerative, and I think everybody here as integrative doctors will relate to those four pillars. And we can classify the structure the way that you manage and treat the patients based on those four pillars. So that we have more structured field of medicine then integrative holistic regenerative can be put together under CGPM. And we can edit together those articles. And we can publish together, but we have a common language that we can speak principles, protocols curriculum, because that's what the mainstream medicine is looking for us to do so that they can adapt it and they become part of their mainstream medicine. And if we work together as a team, we definitely can structure this field of medicine, which we call an alternative integrative holistic under the big umbrella. It's called CDP. And so this article that I have here, it's been published because me and Dr. Joseph in clouds all the time on the phone, trying to figure out the problems of the world and trying to solve it. So we have lots of meeting and discussing and so we collaborate and publishing this article. I hope that if anybody here wants to collaborate with us and be co author, or edit the article, or add himself as an author or co author, we are open because I want to see, well we want to manage chronic disease and preventing it from different angles from different perspective that would add value to those articles that we are publishing it. And we start publishing it at word health abductor class, because it's a nonprofit organization. And you know, all of our talks hopefully Monday, it will be in the form of publications like this. Dr. William wants to also collaborate and this and we can publish all his work as he has a great work, but instead of presenting it as Microsoft, Microsoft PowerPoint, I think we can work together using AI and doesn't take much and I just take the information of your PowerPoint in the form of words and we can turn it into this format, which is the NIH publish it format, throw the AI it doesn't take much time for me to do that in case anybody who's interested here to publish your articles with me or help you with publication. I'm open for that. So I think this is not the one that we want to talk about. We need to talk about the Chronic Disease Prevention management. Is that the one I sent you? Yeah. Okay, let me sorry for that. There is a diagnostic assessment. They send you the diagnostic assessment that the same let me see here to be Oh, can you send it Yes,

Bill Clearfield  34:53
diagnostic assessment COVID. We don't put we don't put any of this on YouTube.

Speaker 7  34:58
Right. Let me let me go ahead and send you the send Dr. juicer so he can I'm in his house and I'm using his computer. Did you put the call to text message and then can you do it for me? Let me send it to the way the emails you send to me by email. I'm sorry for that, guys. This is one of the publication yes, we're going to present it but this is not for today. Just stop the that's public. Just sharing here. And then where we go. Joseph James. This one diagnostic assessment this one yet. Okay. Okay, we're good now. It was best to fix.

Bill Clearfield  35:39
Yeah, we don't we don't put any we took all cases. If you ever go on to YouTube channel, we took anything that said COVID off of it. We got

Speaker 7  35:49
diagnostic assessment of chronic disease prevention and management, sharing the screen. Which go ahead and share the screen. Yeah, did you share it? Okay, one second here. Where we are sharing the screen. You're gonna get back to the

Speaker 7  36:13
we're already sharing screen maybe worst case. Can you see my screen? Now? Now? Okay, let me let me get the screen

Bill Clearfield  36:20
Stefan in the in the infrared sauna.

Unknown Speaker  36:24
Okay, let's go ahead and do that. That's it Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  36:34
Okay, you need me to do another song and dance. Oh, there you go. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  36:37
we're good. Got it.

Bill Clearfield  36:39
Okay. You got me tap dance in here. Dr. Lawson. Something

Speaker 7  36:44
good man. At least you know, you got people. congratulate you for the for the golden bus that you got. Yeah. For for the best in Nevada.

Bill Clearfield  36:56
Yeah, that, that that that $3 will get you a cup of coffee. So, but it's nice. It's an it's a nice thing once in a while.

Unknown Speaker  37:09
Right. Oh, so can you see the page? We're good now.

Unknown Speaker  37:12
There we go. Okay,

Speaker 7  37:14
so, all right. Well, we will approach any chronic disease regardless of what it is any speciality any system in the body. When we diagnose or treat, we need to consider those four pillars redox immune metabolic and regenerative. And I believe all of you. If I go through all your protocols, I will see I can classify them under those four. And you will see that when we go through the articles so let's get this thing out here. So comprehensive diagnostic assessment are essential and prevention measurement of chronic diseases. The article explores the significance of evaluation. Got it out? Oops. Can you show me I'm not good with Apple. Fix it up. Because I like Windows.

Unknown Speaker  38:25
Now, that's not the one. This is the one right.

Bill Clearfield  38:30
So on our screen.

Speaker 7  38:33
Then we have to, I guess get to it. It's in your screen.

Bill Clearfield  38:37
You see it? Yeah, we see it.

Speaker 7  38:40
I don't see it. I don't know why. Okay, this one see that one? Okay, good. You know, make it bigger.

Bill Clearfield  38:53
Those based on redox, immune, metabolic and regenerative status right right. New Dr. James and Dr. Platts. Right.

Unknown Speaker  39:02
And if anybody wants to pop coauthor with us. We're open for that too.

Bill Clearfield  39:14
Okay, abstract

Speaker 7  39:17
right. Do you see? Can you see that right now in the word? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  39:21
I'm reading it. Okay. comprehensive diagnostic assessments are essential for the prevention and management of chronic diseases. Right. All right. So article explores that significance of redox, immune, metabolic and regenerative statuses and patients.

Speaker 7  39:38
Okay, can you see the article right now? Yeah. Okay, good. Okay. Is it moving up and down? Nope, no. Are you are you seeing me moving the screen up and down to No, no,

Bill Clearfield  39:56
it looks it looks like it looks like you got your on a video. That's what it looked like. Okay,

Speaker 7  40:01
let me see here because I think okay, right now, can you see it?

Bill Clearfield  40:06
No, now we got just everybody here.

Speaker 7  40:10
Can you share? This is apple computer I mean, it's just it's weird. I don't know why they do it. Why? Does the thing zoom okay.

Unknown Speaker  40:31
That's

Unknown Speaker  40:36
I think that's the reason

Speaker 7  40:47
that is it. Yeah. Yes. Yeah, they'll share and then do the this one. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. Look on it. Okay, that's good. Okay, I'll get this out the way so I will not be confused with it. Okay. So this is the abstract.

Unknown Speaker  41:08
We'll make that go away.

Speaker 7  41:10
comprehensive diagnostic assessment are sentient prevention and management of chronic disease. This article explores the significance of evaluating redox metabolic immune regenerative status in the patient. By understanding this part of metrics health care providers can develop personalized treatment plan that addresses the root cause of the chronic disease ultimately, improving patient's outcome. So what is chronic diseases such as chronic, such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and cancers are leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide? effective preventive preventive and management of these conditions require a thorough understanding of various physiological and biochemical parameters. This article aims to highlight the importance of comprehensive diagnostic assessment focusing on redox immune metabolic regenerative status by integrating this assessment into clinical practice, health care providers can offer more personalized and effective treatments. So when I when we manage chronic diseases, we need to do need to find out the diagnosis first, by using all the skill of assessing and interpretating the history and physical exam and then we find out the right labs, and we do them and then we come up with a diagnosis. But when we're not trying to even diagnose the patients, we need to consider those four pillars during the process of coming up with a diagnosis. And even when we try to treat it, we look where's the pathology? Is it is it more redox? Is it more immune is it more mutable? Like let's say if the patient's metabolic their sugar is high cholesterol is high thyroxin is imbalanced sex hormones imbalance, this is metabolic and you need to fix them metabolic let's say a patient's has Parkinson disease and he's shaking and patient other patient as anti NMDA receptor. encephalopathy, then this is more of immune than metabolic then you need to consider and focus on managing the immune system versus the metabolic but eventually after you fix them immune, you may consider and see other pillars, let's say you balance the immune system. You give them now Trek's own or you give them those immune modulators that we're going to talk about it. But then the patient still you need to look at see if there's any metabolic deficiency. If there is any things that leads to oxidative stress. Let's say the patient has leaky gut, the patient is sick as toxins as infection. And so you need to screen all of this and start optimizing the patient's health based on those four pillars. And after you bounce the immune system after you bounce that metabolic after you fix the redox then you say okay, well let's go ahead and fix his regenerative. So the priority of which you're going to fix first, it really depends on the patient's diagnosis whether it is more metabolic. If its primary metabolic you fix the metabolic and then you go through the other pillars. If its primary immune disease, then you fix the immune and then you go through other pillars, if its primary redox oxidative stress, like for example, emf induced brain fog, you know, that's redox then you start thinking about how I can buffer the redox of the brain and that definitely leads to decrease inflammation. Maybe I need to put some immune modulation there like naltrexone and others. And then maybe the patients also have other metabolic deficiency vitamin D six hormone is not working, and but there's lots of crossing and a lot overlapping but between those pillars, let's say for example, patient has an NMDA receptor encephalopathy, and MDA antibody receptor antibodies that result immune disease where they produce antibodies against NMDA receptor and the patient is shaking all over and I think Dr. Joseph relate to it because he has a case of that. So it is an immune problem. And you can balance the immune system by using naltrexone and other immune modulators, based on lymphocyte mapping cytokine profile and you can know exactly where the immune system is polarized. But then you also think, Okay, well, six hormone although its metabolic, because you are restoring the metabolism of the body by giving six hormones. So if someone is deficient, especially the project strong, yes, it is metabolic but also progesterone, it is immune modulator so when we recommend those patients who take into nasal progesterone here, we are for the purpose of modulating the immune system and decreasing inflammation, although we consider six hormone as part of restoring the metabolism of the body because there is a pandemic of progesterone deficiency and it's being classified under metabolic but the action is here, in this case, it's more of immune because you're using it to decrease inflammation of the brain. So, I mean, even if I classify all of this under those four categories, it's not solid classification. They those those parameters, and all those diagnostic things that inside those parameters, or those panels are overlapped. So let's start with with redox status assessment. And what is the purpose of assessing oxidative stress evaluate the Silla damage caused by oxidative stress. So when I tried to diagnose oxidative stress related diseases, yeah, you can directly measure the antioxidants. You know the good data you own the ratio between reduced glutathione oxidized glutathione and the NAD yeah, those are the antioxidants and that gives you some understanding about the redox status of the patient especially if they are decreased. But also you can measure the metabolites that is result from the damage that's caused by oxidative stress. Let's say oxidative stress is damaging the DNA. So you will see in the urine, oxy guanosine. I think that's one of the oxidative stress markers that we use, and the urine which is oxidized it nucleotides that will be indicated that the patient has oxidative stress. That's just one example. But the other option that we can do is well, if you have damage in the endothelium that lines the blood vessels, it will lead to endothelial dysfunction and interfere dysfunction can manifest as decrease in the blood vessels compliance and their elasticity they become more rigid the more rigid they are the that is a reflection of their more damage and deterioration which is interfere dysfunction and really rely or depend on how severe then your theory is being damaged. Which which is a reflection of how much you have of oxidative stress. And so that compliance of the blood vessels, I can we can measure it by putting a little broken the finger it's an infrared camera squeeze your the brachial artery and then squeeze the blood and then release it and see the the blood we fail can be pictured by those infrared camera and we can use by logarithm knowing that is there the blood vessels compliance of flexibility has been compromised by oxidative stress. And you can see that they can interpretate the refilling of those capillaries at the finger by the heat that's coming up from the blood. So a logarithm calculation and measuring the waves they can know that you know the patient has mild or moderate or severe endothelial dysfunction. So that's one way of measuring the redox status oxidative status of the redox status of the of the patient. And so if the endothelial dysfunction is severe, that's mean the patient could be also having problem with I'll have insulin resistance, right because that sort of lecture of oxidative stress too much of free radicals that can lead to blockage of the receptors of the insulin, they don't be responsive, and you end up with insulin resistance. There is a system for that valuable it's built by insurance. And I like to have all the integrative doctors to have that system regardless where it comes from. Okay, so I put the infection of chronic infection under oxidative stress. Why I didn't put it onto the immune it can be but I think it's better to say infection, Lyme disease and best involve virus. They're all free radical generators. And that's the first thing and then when when when they generate those abnormal pathological free radicals because of the toxin that's coming up from those infection bugs, then yes, and eventually they will cause inflammation and they will disturb the immune system and they will cause immune polarization, but I like to put it under redox as as the redox sucks redox or oxidative stress generator and also environmental toxins. I will put it under oxidative stress panel because those heavy metals and whether it is mercury or or others lead they all are free radical generators, right and that's how they they affecting the body and that's how they cause inflammation and that's how they're causing damage. Eventually, everything will converge into redox and that we're going to learn from that from from the coming slides. So what about toxins again, toxins there's water soluble fat soluble. We consider Mercury is a fat soluble toxins and they can store the fat tissue.

Speaker 7  50:56
All those petrochemicals toxins that they can store the fat tissue and that's a problem that's fat soluble toxins are more problematic than the water soluble toxins. Why? Because the fat soluble toxins it's hard to get rid from it the what we have in detoxing out there. We have the activated charcoal we have the ADA, but all those ones they can really do well with water soluble toxins. They're not doing well with fat soluble toxins. And before we learned from Dr. Patel. Now we can do sound app and use the sweating to sweat out those fat soluble toxin. That's why well you know you're the sound and all that so the fat soluble toxin can go out throw the sweat and then you wash out. That's one way of detoxing fat but it's not that much effective than finding alkylation for fat soluble toxins. Do we have that collation? Yes. And recently we find out that thank you for Dr. clads cyclodextrin is that fat soluble detox and the only fat soluble detox? It's, it's a little chelation. Yeah, it is a little sphere that looks like high density lipoproteins. Inside is fat soluble outside is water soluble. That's the cyclodextrin and it works like a cargo track or a trash truck that will collect all those fat soluble toxins the petrochemical Xeno estrogens named them the mercury anything that's stored in the fat, it then it dumps it into the biome deliver get read from it. So cyclodextrin is the best way to detox the body from fat soluble toxins. Also cyclodextrin is the best way to deliver drugs. So that's why we put progesterone in it versus so notice how to tackle dextran into nasal or oxytocin and it definitely increased the faculty stability of the drugs. And I think now we have a solution to deliver the drug using cyclodextrin. That's why you know all those compounding pharmacy we're asking them to start using cyclodextrin as a delivery method and it delivered the everything IV topical optimally MACK I drops everything and it's the most safest delivery system that we know plus in the state in addition to delivering the drugs that you want to the target. You also are able to detox the body from fat soluble toxins that it's difficult to get rid of them. So these toxins can accumulate in the body contribute to of course those toxins. If they're inside the fat they start released with time and they aggravate any underlying chronic conditions or trigger any underlying chronic to the chronic conditions. Especially when you start doing weight loss program and all those toxins will be released out in the blood it may cause shutdown of the organs. That's the reason when we do GLP one or the glucagon like peptide I prefer that it will be loaded inside cyclodextrin or use cyclodextrin with it so that you can detox the fat soluble toxins as they are being released during the process of the fat or weight loss. So the fat soluble toxins significant concern they can accumulate in the body fat tissue post various health risk and and those are the example of fat soluble toxins and pesticides that we know heavy metals, some of them lead and mercury, environmental pollutants, all those names which is difficult to pronounce dioxins and by you know, the byproducts of industrial process and all those organophosphorus and you name it. polychlorinated by denials, and you know, all those fat soluble toxins, we can get rid from them plastics as well we can get rid from it using cyclodextrin and that's a good thing. preservative and food additives also that can be a fat soluble toxins as well, which we have a lot in and our food chain, especially here in the United States versus other countries. So and then there's lots of pharmaceuticals that that that can be stored in the fat tissue as well that there are fat soluble toxins and it's good that we have something to get rid from them. And so cyclodextrin will be the answer and those those cyclodextrin will collect those fat soluble toxin dump and and deliver the bile and then the buyer will get rid from it throw the feces most of the time. I mean we can get some read from it throw sweat as well, some of them from the urine, but mostly it's coming out from from the bile. mycotoxin testing. So mycotoxin I put it under redox assessment because there are free radical generators. And definitely we need to screen for mycotoxins and we're not going to do all the screening for every patient is based on history physical exam that would determine exactly the lab that you're going to do because you know I'm again it's those people were candy shop just screen everybody with fungus screen everybody with heavy metals, just give them detox. This is candy shop clinics. I'm against it. I like to have it more precise based on physical health exam based on comprehensive history physical exam, then I determine exactly what the lab needs to be done so it can be efficient and effective. Not just blindly assuming everybody has toxins and let's just go ahead and detoxing them. Well, if there's a history that indicate that the patients may be having toxins, then why not? But if there is none indication, let's prioritize the treatment based on what the patient is complaining from and then go step by step and if we end up doing detox at the end of the road, that's fine, but not in the beginning of managing the patient. Because we need to be more efficient and effective in our management, not just you know, everybody like those people are opening detox centers and everybody comes in Okay, go ahead detox without being even checked without being diagnosed without being seen. I think that's, that's not what we supposed to do as doctors. And we know mycotoxins is very, very difficult to get read from it. We don't have any detox for mycotoxins up to now, except recently, we come up with cyclodextrin and cyclodextrin. It is the only the only chelation detox for mycotoxin. Okay, what about spike protein? Yeah, definitely. Whether it's coming from the vaccine or it's coming from the infection itself, we need to consider screening that because I think 99% of the whole world populations got infected or got vaccine. And, you know, you put that in your equation when you are doing this through physical exam. And, and if you see that, it's something that you may consider it then you start screening for it. And there is some testing to that we are working on developing hopefully, for the spike protein antigen. We know that it's causing what we call the psychopathy. And it contribute to the health issues and how we can detox it again. cyclodextrin cyclodextrin is the way that we can detox spike protein and you can search it and you can see articles about cyclodextrin as a way to detox about him. What else? The other thing is that pharmacogenetic testing, why put it under redox status because if patients is taking medication and this medication is not metabolized in the body, for that specific person because of genetic snips, then you end up that those metabolites from the drugs will be ad free medical generators and it can lead to side effects. And so choosing the right drug, the right pharmaceutical, we have many choices. Let's say they have same mechanism of action, but they have different in their pharmacokinetics and the way that how they metabolize then we can choose the right drug among those five choices. And that is able to be metabolized by that person because that genetic snips is not causing a problem in metabolizing that drug and leading to metabolize that will generate free radicals we call them free radical generators. So that's the reason pharmacogenetics would help us to choose the right drug.

Speaker 7  1:00:03
Any drug whether it is cardio vascular drugs that we use for cardiovascular diseases, especially the antihypertensive drugs, we can choose the right among all those different brands based on the pharmacogenetics we can use also we can find out exactly which which cancer drug that is more effective for that cancer or that does not have abnormal metabolism due to for that specific person due to the genetic snips. So it just helps us to personalize the medicine when minimize the side effects especially when it comes into narcotics. We have variety of different narcotics. And when we do the rotation in narcotics because I did pain management for a while. Sometimes you do a rotation and you end up with a narcotic that has a lot of side effects because the body has a problem with metabolizing that specific narcotic so when we do a rotation of narcotics and we don't want to patient end up in the ICU, then you can do from epigenetics and making sure that the drug that the narcotic that you're rotating to it's metabolized in the body safely without generating free radical generator of metabolites. So pharmacogenetics is something good to be employed in the clinics. Data thing as I said, in theory, function tests, we talked about it, which is assessing the redox status, vascular health and monitor the treatment effects of chronic disease. Definitely they do function tests. In addition, it helps us to assess that the patient has oxidative stress, and not just that, it tells us exactly some some people they have oxidative stress, but it's subclinical, it's not manifested. It's in the gray area between the clinical which is the red area and between the health optimized area or zone which is the green area so we can know even if they're subclinical not manifesting anything that they have oxidative stress, throw into their function tests because there's a score for it. Even the subclinical oxidative stress that's not manifested you can see it there and this they can they can be scored. And knowing that that there is underlying state of stressful it's not manifested but it is leading to manifestation and you become clinical sick the patient become we can stop that from moving to that direction by finding exactly what's the source of this free radical could be six hormone deficiency. It could be mycotoxins could be leaky gut could be the drug that patients taking. It's could be rheumatoid arthritis. It could be psoriasis, whatever it is, then we can specifically determine what it is but to put back to the term that there is oxidative stress, generally nonspecific and more sensitive way we can use it to to function. That's okay. So now the score let's say it's, it's 60 and the patient is not manifested so doesn't complain from anything. So it's subclinical. So I will look for what's the source of those free radicals maybe because patient has progesterone deficiency of six or more imbalance maybe because patient has leaky gut, or toxin based on his physical exam, we will find out exactly where we need to go in the Lab site and finding out where's the source of those free radicals and start optimizing the body. And when you're optimizing, treating the body. Let's say a patient has progesterone deficiency or vitamin D deficiency, and he started giving them all these treatments. And you start giving them all the supplement everything okay, and how you know those treatment that you did ozone, whatever, exosomes how you know, it's working, right? Then you can see the score if you do your function test is removed after two months or three months after treatment. So having an to do function test in your clinic, it is something that I would recommend every integrative doctors to have it's like a set of scope for for doctors, you know, mainstream medicine app. So the scope this is one of because those are sensors in our bodies, the temperature sensors that we use to to see the feet of the vine that the patient has inflammation, infection, blood pressure, it could be a sensor to and we do the single manometer to measure the blood pressure those are vital signs and extension of that there is also new to this function. Because then the to cells is the most sensitive tissue to oxidative stress and inflammation. And so it's a sensor for any imbalance so disturbance oxidative stress in the body. It's the same thing that you did when when we are trying to fix a car and scan the car we put that little blog under the dash and then that screams the car mechanics right. I mean those services are all of them. They have a diagnostic, they have sensors, endothelial cells are the most sensitive tissue for oxidative stress. And we have that that system to diagnose and assess the need to function which is assessing the oxidative stress and inflammation. And what are the instances we have we have autonomic nervous system. They get sick too. When there's oxidative stress, and they don't fire normally either they're firing too much, or they fire but it's not in the right time. Let's say patient has entity as autonomic neuropathy and when they stand up they feel dizzy or brain fog. That's because they have autonomic neuropathy in December that is not firing up to increase the heart rate to increase the blood flow to the brain. And so now we know there's autonomic neuropathy here and how we can know that well if there's autonomic neuropathy, then the heart variability become abnormal because normally when we stand up, your heart rate will go up. But if you have endured the atomic nervous system on neuropathy, your heart will no go up. And then you don't have enough blood in your brain and you ended up with a foggy brain and and imbalance or tiredness or fatigue. And so that could be because of autonomic neuropathy and autonomic neuropathy is due to oxidative stress. Maybe it's because rheumatoid arthritis maybe it's called because of leaky dark. I think he got maybe because of diabetic patient, maybe because of the toxins maybe because mycotoxin we don't know we need to specifically know and we manage that you can see the neuropathy is improved. You can see the heart variability will improve because when we stand up, the heart rate goes up. When we sit down normally the heart rate will go down because your parasympathetic goes up, right when we relax. We supposed to having a parasympathetic to be active and fall asleep. Some people have difficulty sleeping, why because they cannot switch from sympathetic to parasympathetic. Why because they have neuropathy. Why? Because they have oxidative stress. And so we need to screen those sources of free radicals. And once we screen them we find out where they came from. Then we start managing them we can see the heart drivers it will improve you know the flare ups of rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis you can be seen throw into to dysfunction dysfunction or scenario dysfunction which is in the to function tests and heart variability. When they flare up. You can see abnormal heart variability, endothelial dysfunction, okay by testing it and when you give them antiretroviral drugs you can see the autonomic nervous system is improved and you're ready to function is improved. The Big Pharma they use the system to monitor the effects of Big Pharma product, not just integrative that products. So what's that mean? If a patient is taking exosomes and we don't know the system works or not how we do it? Well checking in with your function and hardware bills before you give them access to jobs. If their score let's say 70 and you give them access songs, and after three months or two months or maybe after immediately, you test it and you see the score goes up to 75 and up to one month of twice a week of treatment of IV that goes up to 80. Then we can tell the patient you start with 60 for example, and you end up with 80 because of the of the of those exosomes and those exosomes do work. And so as a doctor, you can even validate any company out there comes out with drugs or supplements or exercise and tells you you know, my system works. Okay, well let's go ahead and test it. We have the system that the big pharma used to monitor the efficacy of any drug any treatments, whether it's big pharma or integrative, and we can find out in seven minutes you can know so I want everybody to have the system I don't care about where you're getting the system. But endothelial function test is built by insurance.

Speaker 7  1:08:13
It's approved by FDA and autonomic nervous system and sudomotor. All of this will help to monitor the effects of treatment and it just gives you a tool like a stethoscope to monitor the effects of your treatment. That other other any other things will not be sensitive as endothelial function tests we don't have the heart, the blood pressure, the temperature all this vital signs. And if ECG does not show the they're not sensitive, especially when it comes into oxidative stress. Then endothelial function and autonomic nervous system they're not specific. Very important. You still need to find out exactly what sorts of the free radicals or inflammation is during the lab. But at least it tells you where the patient's redox status or inflammatory status is. Okay. So the purpose here is to assess redox status vascular health and monitor the treatment effects. You have chronic disease that's very important monitor the treatment effect as you have chronic disease put that many lines under that clinical reference in detail. This function is an early indicator of pathological oxidative stress, such as one example is cardiovascular. It's not just for cardiovascular, it does help us to prevent cardiovascular event from happening, which is the stroke and angina and all that but it's not it's for any oxidative stress out there. It's good for material triax is good for Parkinson. It's good for Alzheimer, it's good for the leaky gut, it's good for naming any any any inflammatory disease, you can use it to do a function test to monitor the effects of the treatment. And you can use cohort study to come up with study to evaluate even the system that you are doing your treatment system is it working or not? Of the normal nervous system is another way because the autonomic nervous system the and myelinated fibers of the nervous system are very sensitive to pathological free radicals. And they get sick, whether they become dominant, sympathetic and when you stand up, they don't fire normally. When you stand up and increasing the heart rate and so that you end up in the feeling you know, brain fog Dizzy depending on how severe it is. And then you and you sit down you're supposed to separate it goes down and parasympathetic will lay down, but the parasympathetic is not working. Why? Because those are Monday night fibers are being oxidized, rusted by the oxidative stress by the inflammation. Once you improve their inflammation, yes, they will. This will reverse and you can see the heart variability. You know it normalize, right? You don't want to have a heart variability fixed like this. You need to go up and down. That's that's that's healthy, right heart rate up and down. If the heart rate is fixed, that's not healthy. If the heart rate is all the time 75 That's not healthy. That's mean so many parts of it is not working at that normal variability. Okay, so the purpose is Jared will Aveda to Roberto system function which assists the redox status which monitor the treatment effects of chronic disease that is very important not for cardiovascular disease only because the company was selling this system they thought it's only for cardiovascular and they selling it for no it's for all chronic disease out there. Now. So the heart rate Babus marker for to balance and also for oxidative stress related disease, all of sudomotor testing and sudomotor testing. It's it's a little plate plaque metallic plate to put your feet on and it tells you about the conduct and see of the sweat is conductive or not electricity pass through the sweat or not. If the sweat does not have much of salt, it will not conduct enough and the system will tell that the sweat is not conducting electricity because there is no salt there more so more conduction, right? So think about it. If you have oxidative stress and inflammation and you're and myelinated fibers in your foot which we have two of them. We have the sympathetic that supply the sweat glands and also we have the C fibers of the pain which supplies your feet right. Okay, both our and myelinated. But what we're measuring, we're measuring the function of the sympathetic because if the sympathetic fibers are not firing well because they've been damaged because of oxidative stress, because they're an myelinated fibers they're not myelinated and mine are very sensitive. They're not they don't have the envelope, don't have the sheath, and so they get damaged and they don't fire and you don't have sympathetic enough to this to the blood vessel. The sweat glands Now very important sympathetic in the blood. This is the sweat glands. There are not epinephrine. They are acetylcholine. And they are causing vasodilation through increasing the nitric oxide. So sympathetic when it fires at the sweat gland, it's causing vasodilation as a construction it increases the blood flow the sweat and then you sweat you this the blood well the it's like kidney the blood will go through the filter of the sweat. And then it goes through the duct and then the duct will start absorbing the salt. If you have too much of sweat going you don't have much chance with absorbing the salt N like the kidney, then you would have a sweat that has enough of salt then the conductance is good. That's mean or sympathetic fibers is working. That's mean those myelinated fibers in the feet is working, including the C fibers, which means that you don't have neuropathy, but if your sympathetic is not working, and you don't have much of vasodilation and sweat glands, you don't have much of sweat going there because you don't have fluid going through the sweat glands. And then you don't have much, then all the soldiers is going to be reabsorbed. What would happen to the sweat that's coming up, it's going to be very diluted. So when you pass electricity when you put your feet on the mat metal and it's pass electricity is going to be difficult to pass because the sweat is very diluted, which means that there is sympathetic neuropathy and directly means that if the sympathetic has been damaged and it's an myelinated, then you have C fibers and myelinated then this is this patient has been apathy, so we can use it also to assist the patient when neuropathy. So when you start treating the neuropathy with all the things that we do, you know, the nitric oxide, the Theo's exosomes name it then you can and you're improving the function and the health and you're reducing the redox and inflammation and those sympathetic start firing. You know, the sweat is not working and then you expect also your C fibers to become healthy again and you don't feel neuropathy again and you're not but you will be in reverse. So it's a good way to assess not just oxidative stress and the blood the autonomic nervous system, but also you can assess the sympathetic the C fibers and you can use it to diagnose neuropathy. So, clinical use usefulness or sudomotor is diagnostic property oxidative stress related disease plus neuropathy, which is for pain, pain neuropathy or C fibers neuropathy, so the pain doctors can use it as a way to assess pain neuropathy. Okay, then the same system which is a good thing, it does have the ABI so that you can know if there's any blood visit narrowing, and also it has the ability to assess your the ratio between fat and muscle mass. How well if you have too much fat and you pass try to pet the stress, see, for example from the hands to the feed, right? If you have too much fat you have resistance and so the system would logarithm will tell you this patient has too much of fat. Okay, but if the electricity will pass through the body from the hands to the feet, then they have less fat and they have more muscles and bones. And then with the logarithm. This system will tell you about your fat mass index or fat muscle ratio. And that's something good especially when you start doing the weight loss and yes, obesity is part of oxidative stress. If you have oxidative stress, you will have more fat and your tissue because you know oxidative stress can lead to corazones moving your pathway of steroids to record these loans. It can lead to moving a six arm on two extra rounds and both the cortisone six routes and estrogens leads to build up of the fat also the inflammation in the fat tissue. When you have oxidative stress, those fats tissue cannot burn the fat because those enzymes will be blocked by oxidative stress. You know my dependency will be blocked and become sick so you cannot burn the fat. And so when you manage weight loss, you also need to consider buffering the redox but work on the redox works on inflammation, right work on the leaky gut, work on anything that leads to inflammation of the body work on the mycotoxin could be work on heavy metals because all of this can lead to oxidative stress and prevent the fact from being shrink because it will lead to mitochondrial Patty or sickness of the mitochondria where the patient cannot burn those fat.

Speaker 7  1:17:24
Then after that we move on to assessing the immune status of the patient. That's very important. This is a new field of medicine. There is only one lab does it I don't want to mention the name because it's a CME, but they do cytokine profile lymphocyte mapping and it's very important to go and learn about the immune system status of the patient whether it's if the patient's th one polarized or th two polarized th 17 polarized and then how you modulate not suppress it, how you move it from how you inhibit the th 17 components. Or a th one is overactive without suppressing the th two when you suppress this then it goes it moves immune system to th two so how you modulate not suppressing the whole immune system. Okay, if it's overactive one of those components Yeah, I want to inhibit it, but I don't want to have the whole immune system put the patient at risk of having cancer or infection. So that's the difference between immune modulation and immune suppression here and now integrative approach we do immune modulation, we find out which one the patient has too much. Is that th one th 17 or th two oh the patient's has a much older arthritis so they have to h1 and th 17 According to lymphocyte mapping, then let's find out what will inhibit the th 17 and th one or patient had allergy and they have too much of th two and th 17 Let's find out what inhibited th two and th 17 We don't want to have the th one with cortisone which inhibits all of that we want to have the one that's been overactive, which components of your immune system is overactive and we do that with emphasize mapping cytokine profile we determine whether it's th one dominant immune disease or th two or t 17. And sometimes they're both yet 70 And th one dominant or an allergy is th two anti at 17 dominance. Most of the time, they'll be on disease they have a th 17 over overactive and so that's why Dr. William Huxley use nitric so and it works for both for th one dominant disease. DHT dominance is why because both of them they have too much of th 17 and Naltrexone is a very good inhibitor of th 17 including ivermectin, they are very good and ABA therapy at 17 including methylene blue. So you can see they're working in both sides of the aisle. When I tried to manage cancer, cancer is very tricky. They secrete chemicals to polarize the immune system away from th one and cytotoxic T cells they moving it to th two and th 17 Right. That's the cancer because cytotoxic T cells kill the cancer. th two and Ts 17 does not because they had seven degrees in it reveals neutrophils cannot do nothing to the cancer and the h2 what they get basal fields and mast cells. Well that's not gonna actually that's going to help the council to grow. What I need in cancer is th one and cytotoxic T cells right I need those guys to go and battle the cancer and and poke holes in the cancer and blow them up. Right. Shooting them with antibodies will not work. All right and so we need to polarize the immune system in cancer into th one so what I need anything that polarized immune to th one is good for cancer, anything and heavy the TS 17 is good for cancer. That's why we use that assume if you see the lecture of Dr. William Bell, he said well, I guess I could not axonal worse Yeah, because you're never going to get 70 which is overactive in cancer. Right. And you can give also anti histamine and things that didn't have the th 240 Crore cancer, right, the Benadryl and anti histamine will help the cancer. Why? Because you're inhibiting th two and you're moving the immune system to th one What about thymosin Alpha? That's good thymosin alpha because polarize the immune system th one Oh, what about thymosin beat no thymosin beat that don't give it to the patient cancer. Why? Because it will stimulate the movement of immune system to T reg and th two. You don't want that. Yeah, thymus and be that good for material right because you want to have the th one and th 17 But don't get thymosin beta two patient with Cassie. That's the reason when we're doing peptides it's very important to know those drugs word they polarize the immune system because sometimes you end up giving a peptide that will make the cancer worse. Why? Because lack of understanding of the mechanism factual peptides and how they polarize the immune system and how they modulate the immune system. So when we do the CBC, it's better to do differential not CBC only because a differential CBC will tell you okay, there's lots of neutrophils. Well, if I do too much of neutrophils, that's what's that mean? That's we have too much of th 17 If you have too much of basophils and mast cells, oh, that's mean th too dominant if you have too much of lymphocytosis um, that's more of th one. So it gives you some picture about what's going on. And so if it's too much a th one that's mean either the patient has in cancer or viral infection. If it's too much, if they're 17, this could be fungus infection, right? Or it could be fungus infection. If it's too much of th two could be warm or it could be allergies. So it helps us to really just by CBC and differential, the differential part helps us to know whether this is bacterial infection or viral infection because bacteria infection, most of the time you will see th 17 and you'll see neutrophils high while viral infection you'll see lymphocytosis cytotoxic T cells, right? Cancer site lymphocytosis is th one cytotoxic T cells. The only thing tricky is the virus called COVID Virus COVID Virus is suppose we will have th one Hi. But but the fact is that we find out those patients has the trophy and they have virus they have to get 70 That's because the virus is fooling the immune system. And if they have a spike protein that didn't have the ace to when you have the ACE two, you are increasing the signals of the th the what we call the angiotensin type one receptor signaling, and that leads the polarization of the immune system away from th one into th 17 and th two and then you will see the patient's has a trophy but swagger affection paraphilia Well, a lot of doctors got confused they thought it's bacteria that's the virus is fooling around the immune system and saying ah you know, it's back day but it's the virus and definitely that leads the virus to start proliferating and differentiating inside those cells, because nothing is going to kill those cells you decided extra T cells, but because of the spike protein acting with interferon hijack and Rena angiotensin system and blocking these two, it leads to activation reading and you tested type one signaling that leads to polarization of the immune system away from cytotoxic T cells it seemed like cancer because the COVID and the spike protein are very danger because it definitely helps even the vaccine. And instead of having a memory of cytotoxic cytotoxic T cells declare the cell has been infected. They polarize the immune system away from it. And that's a reason those fires inside the cells. They're mutating and emerging new strains is coming up because nothing is clearing the map. So let's go to inflammatory markers. Yes, if patients have we expect they have inflammation you need to do the basic inflammatory markers and definitely you know you can do cytokine profile. cytokine profile also helped me to determine where the immune system is heading. If interleukin six is high. Oh that's th 17 If the different gamma is high and Lucan 12 is high that's th one if the interleukin four is high, that is more of th two and that's more allergy. So, so the cytokine profile, I can know where the the immune system is polarized, and then I can make a strategy to balance the immune system. Let's say you have an immature arthritis and you have th one overactive and th 17 and the cytokines will you will see is high interleukin six. interferon gamma has high interleukin 12 is high. Okay. So now we know throw the cytokines so lymphocyte mapping is old directing this is th one dominant with th 17 then what we will do well let's look for things that inhibit th 17 Only right oh sorry t th 17 And also you have the th one because if you inhibit th one only those diseases it's not going to be enough you need to enable the th 17 as well because they did it for multiple sclerosis. And they came up with antibodies that inhibit the interferon gamma and the patients still have problems. And because the th 17 has not been inhibited, so let's figure out if there's any big pharma drugs that inhibit the th one and he had 17 We can use it and low dose or we can use those integrative therapies and supplements that we know that they didn't have the th 17 Like methylene blue ivermectin they'd have the th 17. Now trek zone, name and there's many things and Dr. William Bill knows them a lot. And then th one what will be the good one thymosin beta will be good to have the th one. What else did have the th one? Remember that you know the one that we recommend to Dr. Sylvan

Speaker 7  1:26:42
I forgot the name of it but a supplement that's yellow in color. They use this photosensitizers And they inhibit the CD eight, but I forgot the name of it. So maybe you know after I finished this, my brain will come up and know it but you remember that that thing we gave it wasn't one that I was familiar with no one that supplement we give in to say to Dr. Seven to try it. I forgot the name of it but there's supplements that specifically and have the T at 17 as well. But I will use tyrosine ALPA, the BBC 157 All those things do and have the th 17 is good good for rheumatoid arthritis but there's many other drugs as well does that are supplements if you're looking for supplement are you doing exosomes does exosomes helps to balance the immune system as well? Or you want to use the big pharma drugs especially if they're injectable, you can use lower dose by loading them inside platelets nanoparticle or cyclodextrin. That's another topic. Okay. lymphocyte mapping and cytokine profile we talked about it. It's very important to map your immune system, a patient's immune system to know where the immune system is being polarized, and then work on modulating the immune system. If you give cortisone all the time and you suppress the whole thing, like what we do most of the time, then you end up patient has higher risk of having cancer infection. I think it's better to look for immune modulators. Right, that specifically and have whatever it's active from all those components. As quick question, you go in

Speaker 8  1:28:10
patients that have high levels of cortisol, they they've got multiple toxicities. I think that's a good example of when you would definitely not want to put them on a steroid because they're not responding. It's almost like their steroid receptors are already saturated. And it's just triggering more inflammation. And that's when I realized that there was a place for immune modulation. You know, how do you get the inflammation down? When somebody has a chronically high cortisol due to some sort of, I would say their their neuro endocrine, they're having neuro endocrine dysfunction, lots of brain inflammation, maybe even EMF toxicity, post COVID type symptoms and they are almost having too much adrenal stimulation, or they're producing too much cortisol. So that's when I realized that steroids don't even work because they're already the receptors for the steroids are already saturated. And all it's doing is is producing more, perhaps more side effects, but it's not reducing the inflammation. That's where a modulating in using peptides has has a place. And then if you're going to modulate then that's why it's important to understand this language that takes time to learn by the way, I mean, this is my sensei right here. He's the sensei he's the one and it took me a long time to learn this language. But that's why I got into this was because I realized I just did not know what you know what I was doing. I didn't have a language to to describe why I would do whatever I'm doing. And this idea of shooting in the dark suddenly became obvious, and something I didn't want to do but you know, all I can say if you don't, you don't understand all of this stuff. I mean, even I'm taking notes. I've been doing this for four years with with Dr. Philosophy, but this language is learnable but this is the language. That is what the doc what I believe is if you can speak this language, nobody is going to scrutinize you in the medical community, the mainstream.

Speaker 7  1:30:33
Well then you look for another immune modulators like things that he brought to the table, which has many of them Klotho his one other thing that he did, I'm not saying ox is a very effective immune modulators to really navigate this hyperactive you know, th one or th 17 The one

Speaker 8  1:30:53
that our that one is across all the boards, including Yeah, sure. It's a mild to moderate modulator but it's modulating th one th two and th 17 Right. And it's a mast cell stabilizer, right. I found that one was actually I had results with a patient with a I would say having tremors secondary to auto immune and this is becoming more common auto immunity to various receptors in the brain that can look like Parkinson's, but they are it's an auto immunity to very specific nervous pathways and you don't worry about and having a patient actually walking up and down the stairs without assistance. When they they couldn't do that because they couldn't stabilize. They didn't feel steady on their feet. Because they because of overexpression of certain pathways in their brain unless of others without making

Speaker 7  1:31:51
me add something people would say well, you've suppressed the whole immune system you put the risk patient of having cancer and infection well that's not good case for I'm actually not because I'm not saying it is anti cancer itself.

Speaker 8  1:32:01
And also it's not it's not suppressing it right it's modulating,

Speaker 7  1:32:05
it's modulating and it's not going into suppression to the point where it's been immune compromised, gentle but the other thing is that that does smart with um, locks and knocks it also it's anti cancer itself. So any drug that modulate the immune system at the same time, it's anti cancer. It's more safer, right steroids does not do that suppress the immune system but it does not have anti cancer infected. It squeezed the immune system more to th 17 and th wise What is your favorite the cancer sometimes?

Speaker 9  1:32:34
How can you say it is anti cancer? It does modulate th one th 17

Speaker 7  1:32:39
right but at the same time it kills apoptosis. Right but at the same time, it kills the cancer. It's so that's that's the good thing about um, lux and ox, St. Jameson, but what does that

Speaker 9  1:32:54
what? What does it mean that it kills the cancer?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:57
It does have anti cancer effects on it turns

Unknown Speaker  1:33:00
on am PK,

Speaker 7  1:33:01
right? Well my point Yes, sir. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:05
while it's but it's, it's, it does

Speaker 9  1:33:08
immunomodulation and I agree with that it does th one and and through that. It increases the apoplectic activity but anti cancer

Unknown Speaker  1:33:19
does activate

Speaker 9  1:33:23
doesn't have the DNA doesn't break the DNA strands are single.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:28
No, no, no, it didn't have a damn door.

Speaker 9  1:33:31
kills the cancer modulates the cancer. Well,

Speaker 7  1:33:36
it works on the moon but also the cancer itself. Or if you have it the mTOR and activate de MBK cancer protects it will be about Yeah, but it really does have some it activates a MBK inhibit them tour itself. It does help in in the cancer itself and I will send you articles about unlocking access and anti cancer. Okay, okay, not just that hyper received, hyper seem. It's another supplement that I just reminded it didn't have the CDA and we can use it for metadata rights and at the same time hyper seein is anti cancer as well. It didn't have them toward an activate APK. So that's a good thing. If the drug does two things, it's more safer than just suppressing the immune system allowing the cancer to flourish. But if it kills the cancer, that's a good thing. Let's go ahead to give you another example. All the antifungal drugs most of them do kill the fungus by the same time they inhibit the th 17. Those antifungal drugs that's one of the mechanism that we use antifungal drugs to kill cancer and boost the immune system because they inhibit the th 17. But there's other mechanisms that antifungal drugs can kill the cancer directly. But when we do it for antifungal, they're killing the fungus but also they are they are putting the hyper inflammation that's caused by the toxins of the fungus down which is th 17 inhibitor so what's our antifungal that we know what I started, what's the name of them? What is the common antifungal I'm gonna start Yes. So God has an inhibitor and kills the fungus. tetracycline, same thing it it happened to th 17 and kill the bacteria of the line which is something that we want to decrease inflammation and kill the bug. Those why we know we use those drugs because of their double action. Again, I put chronic infection I think Dr. Patel she's the master of all of these things because she is the I can consider her the mother of chronic disease prevention management. She has a big three big books. I went to her office. She has like two big stack of books of chronic disease prevention and management. So she's the mother of chronic disease prevention and management by the way, and infection. I put infection under redox. That is not the muon because I see the infection is is a source of free radicals. They are free radical generators, but definitely they will lead to inflammation to serve the immune system. But I'd like to put it on the redox

Speaker 9  1:36:15
graphs over it. Yes. Thanks. The immune system somehow it does not defend it. So one gets the infection and then that is the after effect of infection is the redact so even though you like to be under the lot of damage is done by the oxidative stress or the how one gets the infection is overwhelms the immune system cannot find it and then one one gets the infection. So I think to put the immune system aside and and put the redox on the top. I'm not too sure whether that's a

Speaker 7  1:36:56
Corona No, those four pillars are not on top of each other. They are overlap as I said that's right to each other, but I just put it under the redox and state of the immune because those infection they release

Unknown Speaker  1:37:10
chemicals

Speaker 7  1:37:13
are free radical generators. And because when when we tried to manage a chronic diseases, we want to find all the leakage of the free radicals, whether they are toxins, the common thing between toxins, heavy metals, and infection. Both of them are free radical generators and then when they they generate free radicals the free radicals itself activate all this immune system and lead to inflammation. But definitely there why they are polarizing the immune system to 17 other one is polarizing the th one this has to do with the macrophages when they eat the bacteria and tasted it polarize the immune system to th 17 Because the macrophage is engineered with knowing that this is bacteria and lead to release of the cytokines that polarize the immune system into th 17 when they eat the virus they taste it and they've been engineered to polarize the immune system by releasing cytokines that leads to th one except it's been booked fooled by COVID virus by Spike protein, then the macrophages get confused and this state of polarizing immune system to cytotoxic T cells to kill the virus. You know, anyone who doesn't succeed has been affected. They polarize into th 17 And sometimes it's a th two. So those are things that we need to learn about. Common.

Speaker 8  1:38:35
I think I like the idea of of this is what I realized today is seeing the chronic infections grouping them under redox in the context of seeing a new patient, and when you're getting an endothelial test, you realize that a very high oxidative stress score, you know via the endothelial dysfunction or autonomic dysfunction will also clue you went to chronic infection because of the like you said there was releasing toxins that are generating free the free radicals are there free radical generators. It's just I liked the way to organize. I like how it's organized in my mind to see things through the lens of of oxidative stress

Unknown Speaker  1:39:20
that's that's that's how they all overlap.

Speaker 8  1:39:23
But but there are overlap, but it's but I see it as a way of organizing the thinking

Speaker 7  1:39:27
right, just the thinking and the management there and giving you the

Speaker 9  1:39:32
say one more thing. Yes. Just then you're treating chronic infections. And if you're just realizing putting more steroids of reducing the oxidative stress with joins to empower the immune system and you will not be able to get rid of infection completely and you can you can repeat keep on repairing the redox but you are not going to have the the good defense mechanisms to get rid of the infection. So you you while you are treating for the oxidative stress, it is imperative that you treat empower the immune system. Of course you are treating for the infection but infection you're gonna keep on giving the antibiotics for years together, you're not going to get rid of that infection, you can keep on treating the redox you're not going to get rid of the infection unless you empower your immune system and do the immunomodulation and one of the things that you pointed out that you you have to make most most of the infection the th one system very strong downregulate the th 17 and make th one and for that whatever way you want to immuno modulate that system. That's how you do it simultaneously while you are trying to work on the oxidative stress, endothelial dysfunction, antibiotics but but this this part, if you don't address you're never going to get rid of that in chronic infection.

Speaker 7  1:41:11
Right? So when we manage dying, we actually have to go through all those four things. So let's say Okay, so we have Lyme disease. Okay, and it's a free radical generator because it's secreting it so that's part of its cause oxidative stress, but when we manage it, we may need to work on interfering with the metabolism of the bacteria by using those antibiotics. So it's metabolically we are targeting the chemistry of the bacteria using those antibiotics because they interfere with the metabolism of the bacteria and kills it. That's why the mechanism of the bacteria, antibiotics, some of that biotics like those photosensitizers Like methylene blue they stick into the the Lyme disease and then I shine a light generate we wrap free radicals and that will kill so I will use employ everything including suppressing the tear 17 and polarizing the immune system to th one because you need to get rid from the cells that's been infected with the bacteria. The intracellular pathogens cannot be recovered from by neutrophils and by antibodies. You really need to have this power the cytotoxic T cells. So yes, when you go through management, you have to go through all those four pillars. Same thing, when when when doing anything, but just that it's just a way to simplify things, but definitely when in the management.

Speaker 8  1:42:34
I go through all of that what is not saying for my understanding what it's not saying is buffered redox first, my understanding is just that it's just happens to be the first thing when you're doing an endothelial test. It's it's if that if the oxidative stress is high, it's pointing towards chronic infection as part of the differential doesn't mean that first you buffer the redox then you then you modulate the immune system, then you can do it at the same time. This is I see this as organizing your thoughts around the patient when you're seeing them for the first time and you're trying to find out what's going on. If this is a way you're getting a screening test, which is you know, first thing for everybody and then you're seeing these these a lots of endothelial dysfunction and autonomic dysfunction automatically. You you know that you know, we're going to have to get look at look for chronic pathogens, like a pathogen profile lymphocyte map simultaneously already, the thoughts and new differential is leaning towards chronic infection and the other things that you

Speaker 7  1:43:41
employ everything that you have metabolic redox immune even at the end of the day, if you finish all of this they say well, because of all this damage, I think the patient needs some regeneration. So this gives them some exosomes or they've given Klotho oxytocin to regenerate the body. So we need to go through all those four pillars, but we need to prioritize and and coming up with a plan that sometimes we use some same time. Sometimes I don't use exosomes at the beginning, I will let them the last thing after I do the metabolism and immune and redox and then I go so it depends on the conditions. I need you to be all up in mind about

Speaker 8  1:44:19
maybe Dr. Patel not to you. You are the master right not to take anything away from what you said. I'm imagining somebody this is being training wheels. For somebody who's who's learning this language, again to organize their thoughts that that habit have things separated so they know what you know the difference between oxidative stress the difference between inflammation the difference between metabolic issues and no so that they're not jumping straight to what the amateurs would do is just give them stem cells, right is everything and you're missing. You're missing the boat because things are so much more complicated. Now there's just multi toxicity store I'm inside the back nothing, nothing fits the old models. And so I just say this training wheels for somebody who is who is learning this language, but no thank you for your comment and this overlap

Speaker 7  1:45:13
is very clear. You know, you can put those circles, those pillars and overlap them to each other where they all work together. The other pillars with a bullet now when I say metabolic people, they think oh, the temple syndrome, you're talking about diabetic hypertension and live it no I'm talking about all the meta Bullock reactions all the biochemistry in the body needs to be optimized, Vitamin D deficiency six hormone all those genetic snips that leads to problem with metabolism of those supplements or vitamins or minerals. Anything including, let's say big pharma product, increasing l-dopa, right and I'm using drugs that increase the L dopa that's part of metabolism. Anything that normalize the chemistry of the body, especially then dodginess product of the body, the chemicals and normalizing it then that's that's considered a metabolic but sometimes those metabolites xx hormones, they have immune modulation effect. And I use it as a metabolic Yes, let's just say the patient with anti NMDA receptor and Cipolla apathy. She has inflammation in the brain. What is the most safest way to reduce inflammation without causing any side effects? Well destroy intranasal progesterone, and it's metabolic but I use it here to decrease inflammation is immune. So we need to be open minded and not to be rigid and those classifications and

Speaker 8  1:46:41
it's like, right more like mastery level are they you know, when you're getting good at this and it's like, you can start with the you know, you know, that they had a progesterone deficiency, but I mean, we should test for it. But you do realize that that month, there's an epidemic of progesterone deficiency and estrogen dominance, and that the estrogen dominance is contributing to the inflammation and if you're going to get rid of the help modulate the brain inflammation the most effectively then you want the progesterone to go directly to the brain. And then this idea of combining it with the cyclodextrin not only is it acting as a particle that is carrying it, past the blood brain barrier easier,

Speaker 7  1:47:24
but also it has anti inflammatory, the sacral dextran. And so,

Speaker 8  1:47:28
okay, and then also at the same time that there's a detoxification effect going on that as the cyclodextrin is releasing the progesterone and then circulating around the body and removing the fat soluble toxins. I'd like that way and it's the thinking and I know that this is there's There's literature to back these things up, you know, translated different articles that point towards a similar conclusion. Again,

Speaker 7  1:47:57
this article is for everybody here to evolve in editing it expanding. Dr. Patel, Dr. William, anybody here is interested to expand it, add their spices, their vision, their diagnostic map, their diagnostic Road, whatever we want. Those articles are open and we can edit it

Bill Clearfield  1:48:19
put it on our website. Well, I

Speaker 7  1:48:21
will send you the copy and I want you to add your flavor if you can along with Dr. Patel, if you can add the spices and and put your name there as well. It makes sense. Well, we need two

Bill Clearfield  1:48:30
months ago I sent you the hormone and the handout was about 30 pages 30

Speaker 7  1:48:39
pages can can you do in a way that it will work with this general thing and that we will create something specific if you send me that

Bill Clearfield  1:48:51
in words I said I sent it to you about three minutes to me an words not PowerPoint,

Speaker 7  1:48:55
can you do that? And it wasn't mean words it was a PDF Okay. I will try to chain because

Bill Clearfield  1:49:03
what I what happens when I try to convert it to word is that all of the columns get all will mess

Speaker 7  1:49:09
the line I need the words that's it doesn't matter if it's been in sequence I will take it put it in AI and combined AI to format it in public publication forms and with references and with those little link that you know those numbers and then I will send it to you and you tell me what you think about it. Because that's what I did. It I put gibberish word there even up finishing the grammar and the day I will fix everything and clean everything. The important is the concept and the concept and then the editing that you do and then you go back and you ask to fix this add this edit this. It's you commanding the AI not the guy is commending you and telling you what it is. And if you do that, and I think we can all work together on this. So

Bill Clearfield  1:49:57
I have to I have that's why I have Dr. Burgess. He's the one that tells me what to do.

Speaker 7  1:50:01
He's your AI right yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:04
he's my own little private AI.

Speaker 8  1:50:07
Probably start landing the plane a little bit but I was gonna say yeah, probably landing the plane here. Because it's a lot of information. But I was gonna say back to this sort of mastery level thinking once you have the concepts together. It's just when you're like say when you're doing something you want it to accomplish a lot of things at once and that back to that progesterone example. You know more for people who are a little bit you know, maybe over the age of 50 Just so you don't get it confused with you know women who are menstruating, although there may still be a place for the intranasal progesterone in those situations, but just the thinking again, when you also realize that progesterone is also activating GABA in reducing anxiety, it's improving sleep, but it's also a decreasing sympathetic tone. Because as you

Speaker 7  1:50:59
learned this with Dr. Bill, William, he's the one who tell us we're just going to gobble that up.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:04
Yeah, exactly. I mean, we

Unknown Speaker  1:51:09
run by smart people, Hey,

Speaker 8  1:51:10
I mean to put this stuff together. I mean, this is an incredible amount of information, but that's the that's more of the mastery level is yet we have is what I've learned is being able to accomplish a lot with knowing the mechanisms of action. Okay, the mechanisms what's happening on a cellular level, understanding redox I mean, I used to think inflammation was everything until I met Dr. Philosophy then all of a sudden I this world of oxidative stress grew bigger and bigger, until I saw it started seeing how oxidative stress was happening on the cellular level, which which takes time when you're looking over the articles but I found that you could accomplish when you start to know that, like progesterone, it's handling metabolic it's also modulating the immune system. It's it's activating GABA, increased sleep it's increasing the detoxing of the brain at nighttime the cyclodextrin has anti inflammatory effects. And by reducing the sympathetic tone, you're also in a sense, how would you be buffering the redox? If there's a redox effect? Is it just simply by reducing modulating the immune system or is it through that redox itself the redox itself?

Unknown Speaker  1:52:26
Anyway, you can give the antioxidant No,

Speaker 8  1:52:29
no, I'm saying when progesterone that example the progesterone

Speaker 7  1:52:33
itself, progesterone to inhibit the dead 17 But how is it how is it the fact that it decreased the expression of antioxidants enzymes and improve them to function tests and how it how it stimulate the expression of antioxidant enzymes? superoxide dismutase mutase.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:51
Intrinsically, yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:54
Expression of antioxidants. Okay. Enzymes.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:57
Have a bit of a summary here. Yeah. Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:53:00
good. Yeah, I mean, I'm almost done. I'll just go to a little bit on metabolism. And then go to reject of status. And we've done give me 15 minutes where we're done.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:10
Okay.

Speaker 7  1:53:13
Yeah. So So basically, when I say metabolic status assessment is not just those metabolic syndrome that we know which is the diabetic and hypertension and obesity is every chemical in the body and I did focus on iodine. And I learned that from Dr. Stefan and iodine because something has been overlooked. Why? Because I think we've been exposed and become toxic with halogens, the fluoride and fluoride and the broom and all those things, especially at the swimming pool. And we have iodine deficiency because those hydrogen replaced iodine and iodine. We thought it's only for improving the thyroid function, but it's really it's it's more than that. It involved in expression of antioxidants. It also helps in differentiation of the cells and it's inhibit too much of perforations. So especially a patient has breast cyst, you give iodine, if they have too much of estrogens, as strong especially it will counteract it by inhibiting the aromatase by the way, iodine is very effective ARM based inhibitor. So when we get progesterone into nasal, we'd like to give iodine as well. And that helps to balance the six hormone and inhibit there's too much of estrogens and too much of excessive proliferation of estrogens and also with prevent, you know it helps to prevent the those steroids from moving to cortisone. It actually helps him to stay in and the six hormone and producing those six hormones. So iodine has many multiple effect. And I'd like everybody to have it at least around five to 10 milligram of iodine not just iodine potassium, which is the cheapest version. Again, it includes also the cholesterol and the high density lipoproteins, especially the oxidized one. And I think from doctrine now you will learn the difference between oxidized LDL and LDL particles number of and reality is that it's not about an increase in LDL, causing the problem arthrosclerosis It's about oxidized LDL and it's about the increase of glucose and rich diet with with carbohydrates. high glucose glucose itself can turn to glycogen and get oxidized and become free radical generator and they want to get oxidized LDL and when the oxidized LDL. This will cause oxidation of the components of the blood vessel especially in NTU and lead to arthrosclerosis. So that's why I don't think the right thing to do when you have high LDL, it's more controlling the sugar low carb diet. And I don't think we need to use that and just because the LDL is a little bit high. I think we just need to focus on low carb high carb diet to prevent oxidation of those LDL so then the six arm bone is part of the metabolic panel. And we need to really come up with a complete panel of six or more on including the progesterone, testosterone, and even the four the three forms of estrogen as to your estradiol is stones we really need to report that because imbalance in the estrogen forms and ratio is the reason why we have estrogen dominance syndrome. And we can manage this region Down Syndrome by counteracting the estrogens with progesterone by inhibiting our tastes with iodine. I think we can do better if we not just normalizing the range of six hormone but also the ratio of the six hormone and we have some lab we are working with so that they can come up with forms that helps the doctors to understand the importance of normalizing the ratio so that I'm gonna get bad it's gonna affect the metabolic health and definitely can aggravate any chronic disease makes you more prone to disease especially when you have estrogen dominance and you have too much restaurants because as stones are inflammatory. Yes and they are proliferating as well and they can lead to they are the reason why we have prostate cancer endometrial cancer the reason we have metabolic syndrome, and so patients, we give them testosterone without giving them progesterone, iodine, what would happen those assessments will convert especially if he has extra weight by the fat tissue to air stones and the stones will lead to prostate cancer, as stones will aggravate metabolic syndrome because it's inflammatory. So it's very important to inhibit the mutation of the testosterone to estrogen. It's even a mutation of estradiol to restaurants using iodine and nutritional genetics. It is very important to do all this genetic snips because you can get vitamin D and the patient have genetic snips they cannot metabolize vitamin D. So this vitamin allowance those that we know it's one of the Healthy People does not have genetic snips. But if patient is sick and asthma material thrives or psoriasis, they need higher dose maybe 10 times what the vitamins recommended by the mainstream medicine. So when you're sick, you're good you need to increase it will increase your age you need to increase the dose of vitamins. And if you have genetic snips, you also need to make sure that you're taking enough of that vitamins because that vitamin is not metabolized well in the body. So nutritional genetics is a very important part of metabolic master by the 10 minutes for questions. The last thing for this which is we've done their gender status, and what's the best thing is to evaluate the clinical level there is a diagnostic test for that and we can give Klotho or we can do the telomeres are many ways to assess the regenitive status of the patient or just by knowing that the patient has inflammation and things like that and we cute we got the inflammation out or a patient has cancer and we treat the patient with cancer then we need to consider after that how we can regenerate the body but I think a lot Regeneration has to be the last thing to do after you fix the metabolic immune redox then you think about how we can restore the healing and regeneration by giving Klotho oxytocin thymosin beta also interleukin 11 It's a big thing recently it's a trend because they relate interleukin 11 With fibrosis and inflammation especially with aging and we need to find out things that didn't have the Videocon lab and the Big Pharma came up with antibodies, but we can do our better than that we can do Klotho we can do the polyphenols. All of those can reduce the level of the interleukin 11 The other part is cancer wiped cancer I put it under regenerative because it is abnormal regeneration. So that's the reason cancer is under regenerative status and cancer we treat it with multiple way it's I have a problem with doctors will say oh just keto diet is enough or just give them antifungal units enough or give them ivermectin and that no those are layers. Cancer it says very intelligent creature and they have many do you need to work on those many layers? Yes, the low carb diet is good. ivermectin may be possible inhibited th 17 And maybe interfere with the cancer some antifungal drugs can have the th 17 interfere with the cancer, but that's not enough. You really need to go and even use photodynamic therapy you need to do some other immune modulation polarized immune systems a th one you need to do anti fibrotic you need to do anti platelets, there is many layers for cancer. And we need to understand that the cancer is intelligent creature and using all the way to evade the immune system polarize the immune system away from th one cell looks at T cells and we may need to use also big pharma products. So it's antibody anti CTLA four they're anti PDL one and so cancer is intelligent creature and just a low carb diet is not going to be enough or insulin shots that they are giving which is those hyperglycemic shock is not enough. We really need to peel the layers of the cancer to manage it. And we can monitor the faculty of the treatment using the best thing is circulating tumor cells. It's more sensitive than the PET scan. And yes, cancer is considered, you know chronic diseases on the regenerative and we can come up with genetic testing that helps us to know whether this patient will have high risk of having cancer. We have lots of genetic snips, snips that can tell us this patients will will have cancer and I think doing it is good especially with the family members of the patient of the cancer. I have thyroid cancer, pancreatic cancer, my father has it so you inherit cancer and you heard money so it's not just money all the time. And again treating cancer it's not simple, why you really need to know all the tech, the tactic of the cancer and address them knowing what the cancer does it decrease the fibrosis. It squeezed the blood vessels with the fibrosis preventing lymphocyte infiltration. So you need to give them anti fibrosis. It does cause the cancer to be wrapped around platelets. So you need to government anti platelets to polarize the immune system away from th one into th two and th 17 So you need to inhibit that to th 17 th one you need to work on inducing apoptosis. It was important dynamic therapy using all this method that we learned. You need to change the metabolism of the cancer low low carb and all that stuff we do but it's many things. It's just not one thing. I think we cover we done if there's any questions I'm open, stop share 37 phone 35 to 37 That's not enough that a lot of job doctor. We dropped on the we lost.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:53
We I think we had 44 it or P

Speaker 7  2:02:56
44 to 37 How many people now seven you know

Bill Clearfield  2:02:59
a lot of the Filipino Filipino friends are at their conference and it's starting

Speaker 7  2:03:03
on some good right? I still married so I can present next time right?

Bill Clearfield  2:03:09
Yeah. Yeah, why? I think what one of the things we need is a I mean you put a lot of stuff in there. And what we need is okay, visit one. What do we do visit to what do we do? You can't do all of this all at once. And you know, there's a pretty big expense to most a lot of these tests. A lot of his testing.

Speaker 7  2:03:36
Right? So based on extreme physical exam, you choose the right way to do but this is just classification of all the diagnosis tools that you have in your hand but you don't do them all and that's the candy shop what they do when doing it blindly based on history of his exam, physical history, you direct what lab is going to do, and then what treatment needs to be done. So

Bill Clearfield  2:03:59
is there a is there a basic core of tests that you do? Do that you'll do on

Speaker 7  2:04:04
every person? No, we don't. I think endothelial function test that's something I can do to everybody but that wouldn't

Speaker 8  2:04:10
be more considered principles then principles of chronic disease. It's the principles it's not the How to it's it's the principles because this this is not something new. You can just a guideline you can look at. This is when you're learning or the thinking process or learning how to think or learning the language. Would you say it's more diagnostic.

Speaker 7  2:04:32
It's also its diagnostic assessment, not clinical assessment of chronic disease. So it's not not long history and physical exam and the way that you ate just more or less the tool that you have for diagnosing chronic disease, especially the the lab part of it. That's what this lecture is all about. But choosing the lab and choosing what you're going to choose. It's really based on the history physical exam. Now the question is that, do we have a test that we can do it for everybody? To screen? Yes, endothelial function test. It's like blood pressure. And term and I'm taking the temperature. You can do endothelial function tests because it gives you a general status of the redox inflammation of the body and helps you to monitor the patient's so when you do function tests, autonomic nervous system testing, this is generalized, every integrative doctor have to have the system I don't care for more you're gonna get it. Okay. Yes, I do consult companies about it, but I don't mention any name of it, but I want you to get it because this one

Bill Clearfield  2:05:34
not mentioning any any names, but so somebody who is brand new, a regular regular medical doctor who does a CDC a cam profile, a lipid profile and a TSH with maybe a flex to a tee for I mean, that's all they know, right? Where did where did they start? Where did they go from?

Speaker 7  2:05:56
Well, basically based on your history, and physical exam will tell you exactly where you move. You don't just go without having the patient's information. And that will guide you what lab you want to do. So tell me about the patient's me and you can figure out what the next lab needs to be done. If the patient has history of exposure to fungus infection. And he has lots of symptoms that indicate that patients and fungus infection and bit by the exam you can see that there is some sign amongst function function. Then you do mycotoxins and fungal if the patient's as taking drugs or taking narcotics has oxidative stress, possibly narcotics is causing the problem patients is exposed to EMF, which something I did not add in this lecture was needs to be done because something we talked presenting it on Monday the EMF toxicity and a lot of patients. They're getting oxidative stress and their inflammation or whatever condition they have. It's getting worse whether they have psoriasis or underlying inflammation with EMF and they become hypersensitive. They cannot have they don't have enough of antioxidant anti inflammatory to compensate oxidative induced by EMF. So patients is being used by EMF it needs to be screened out and then we need to manage that as well. So really, it's all about what's history physical exam.

Speaker 6  2:07:18
Yeah, Dr. alasa. Quick point here. I can't see how you can't include toxins, environmental toxicity, heavy metal testing, something like that, because you're not going to get an optimum healing person when they're full of toxins. And as you said, and as we talked about yesterday,

Speaker 7  2:07:38
the history and physical exam indicate the patient's been exposed to toxins. Then you go and do it. You move to that realm. We have the tools there, right we talked about it. So don't do it. Don't do it. Like based on your wish, wish wash on based on the history, physics and based on the basic lab that you do, you can do basically the basic lab, you know, the metabolic lab and all that stuff, something it's it's been done cleanly because the patient may have diabetic knowledge. So you want to do hemoglobin what I want to see because the patient looks you know, a little bit obese, you know, have signs of fatigue and all that stuff. You can start with those basic ones, but it's all directed by the history. Physical exam. I don't know exactly, exactly. who say, Oh, here. We have, you can do the detox, and he didn't take history. No,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:33
no, no, no,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:34
that's not what I'm saying. That's not what I'm saying. You

Speaker 7  2:08:37
can take vitamin D. There is it's like that I swear to God, there is one test because after doing I've been I've been I've been talking to patients. And one of the patients a My father has Alzheimer's. And another doctor that he's a famous he just took him in, give them multiple Myers cocktail, give him a detox, charge and 14,000 He didn't let him talk to him. Take history for the exam, nothing. You know,

Speaker 6  2:09:04
just thing you have to do a full environmental exposure analysis. You need know have patient patients who've been exposed to mold. You need to know if people have gotten new carpet, things like that to find out where the toxins are coming from, you know, unless you do a full complete exam, medical history, environmental history, right. So

Speaker 7  2:09:30
let me let me add something to you. See DPM group of American Medical Association. They came up with 360 HP was being up to 60 HP which I think every doctor needs to be adapting it. When you take the history it has to be comprehensive, including the toxins

Unknown Speaker  2:09:46
exposure. Yeah, but they don't know what to

Speaker 7  2:09:48
ask. Okay, those are the things that we need to if that's the case, we need to train the doctors to come up with the questionnaires. I have questionnaires that's been generated. I will send I will send you that questionnaire. I have yes and no. I didn't include the toxins.

Speaker 6  2:10:09
Yeah, no, let's do it. I'll send you the one I have if I have

Speaker 7  2:10:12
one that's been generated in all those tools that we have all the thing that's comprehensive, and I need people to add more if there's any. Yeah, you asked the AI I tell them I need patient questionnaire based on all those diagnosis. Yeah,

Speaker 6  2:10:28
but we have to get all the way down to the day like the habit.

Speaker 7  2:10:31
If there's anything missing from that questionnaires. I want you to edit it and add it. How about that? That's perfect. Okay, we're good. We're good. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:43
Yeah, okay. Or Dr. halus says that she thinks pretty much every one is exposed to toxins, women more than men because of cosmetics.

Speaker 7  2:10:55
Right, but still I will do the 100% I will do that. So let me let me get it right. So I will not be in trouble with the mainstream medicine. Or those people you know they're gonna Tories Why are you doing this? But I will I will take the history to justify whatever I'm doing. Yes.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:12
We love being in trouble with mainstream medicine. That's why we exist. Come on. Stop it. Alright, so let me let me let me let me give you I know it's getting late and you know, especially what this night man a 30 Now it's 10 o'clock east coast.

Speaker 7  2:11:33
Oh, I'm seeing it wrong. There's an eight drop here. It's giving me a wrong one. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:37
but let me let me ask you this. I had had a lady come in today I'm gonna give you give you a brief history. I'm not going to go through everything. She's 53 years old. She was complaining of menopausal symptoms with extreme fatigue and hot flashes. Okay. Physical exam was you know she was five foot three. She weighed about 170 pounds. Her pressure was 120 over 60 or pulse was maybe was 82 and respirations 16. And she said she wasn't feeling well and she was tired. All the time. Okay, go. Well, you

Speaker 7  2:12:22
How old is she? 53. Okay, and she has hot flashes. So

Bill Clearfield  2:12:26
she's a She's an engineer.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:28
She has hot flashes. So

Unknown Speaker  2:12:29
she works for IGT

Bill Clearfield  2:12:32
she engineers slot machines that's what she does. She's got two children. I

Unknown Speaker  2:12:38
think in her job there. There's

Unknown Speaker  2:12:39
exposure to the toxins.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:42
I'm not really sure. I asked her she said that. She did work at a an aluminum factory

Speaker 7  2:12:50
at one time so it would be a good one. There you go. Yeah. And what I would do first of all for this patient, I will check the endothelial function test and score them and see if they have oxidative stress. That's the first thing I would do. And then suppose

Bill Clearfield  2:13:04
I don't have any filial function test machine.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:07
Well, it's good to have it so you know,

Bill Clearfield  2:13:09
you know me I'm too cheap

Unknown Speaker  2:13:11
to buy that. They they stress me

Speaker 7  2:13:13
a baseline that the patient has a stress and then I will do the metabolic panels. Okay, just to make sure because I don't know about their history. Has she done metabolic panel before or not and how long is that? Well, you want that that I got? Okay, I will I will definitely do her. The CBC differential just differentiate gives me an indication if there's any underlying infections, anything like that. I would do that or

Bill Clearfield  2:13:36
white count or wait count was 5200. Differential did you did that? Do neutrophils the lamps were two to one they all look they all look pretty good.

Speaker 7  2:13:49
So it seems like it's okay. I don't go far there was I took on blood

Bill Clearfield  2:13:54
sugar. Yeah, her blood sugar was 83. Her C reactive protein 1.03 insulin. was six. homocysteine was 13.4.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:06
Are you almost

Bill Clearfield  2:14:08
ended vitamin D you was 99.9

Unknown Speaker  2:14:12
of us esteem is how much?

Bill Clearfield  2:14:16
What did you ask which one was this?

Unknown Speaker  2:14:18
homocysteine? How

Bill Clearfield  2:14:18
much 13.4

Unknown Speaker  2:14:22
Is that normal?

Bill Clearfield  2:14:23
Well in my book that's high.

Speaker 7  2:14:26
Okay, okay. Maybe snips maybe oxidative stress there that's caused by you can see homocysteine is an oxidative stress Gen Ed's redox generator or free radicals generator.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:40
What else do you want to know?

Unknown Speaker  2:14:42
Six pheromones.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:44
Okay, her estradiol was less than five basically zero. Her stone was 23 and her progesterone was 0.2

Speaker 7  2:14:58
That's estrogen dominance syndrome, just by knowing stones and estradiol ratio. It's above to

Bill Clearfield  2:15:05
reality she has hot, hot flashes and night sweats. So she has

Speaker 7  2:15:09
to give. Yeah, and she's, I think I think part of her problem now it's six or more needs to be normalized and the ratio is normalized. I think she has estrogen dominance syndrome.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:20
Yeah, her testosterone was 15. Right. And sex hormone binding globulin was 54.

Speaker 7  2:15:29
So do you want to normalize it six Turman? Yeah. Okay, so that will definitely help to even improved endothelial function score and oxidative stress and a lot of things you will feel great after that. If you want to do heavy metals because of the machine and exposure to all those chemicals, you can do the metals and other toxic thing. This is justified just because of her work. So six hormone with that environmental toxins as she has any exposure to you think about Lyme infection, things like that.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:03
I didn't get that out of her. No. I got a few labs here though. I got a DHEA of 79 and a pregnenolone. Less than 10 basically zero.

Speaker 7  2:16:13
So basically balancing six terminal ratio, doing tech toxins, what we call screening for her just because of her exposure and our work. And then and then I will start just start managing and see the score is improved or not. And if it does not improve that at a function score there is another source of free radicals that we need to investigate but we can start with this to make it efficient, effective and to the next step and see what will happen. Now you

Bill Clearfield  2:16:43
can always jump

Speaker 7  2:16:45
folic acids I will give make sure for linic acid not folic acid, folic acid, they say it's better bypassing any snips that's their folinic acid. Well, I will go oh god, CBC was red blood cells was good. There is no big red blood cells and all that

Bill Clearfield  2:16:59
stuff. MC MC mean corpuscular volume was 91.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:03
Okay. Her

Bill Clearfield  2:17:11
IGF one. So that's our growth hormone screen was 76.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:16
Right. I will be complex.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:19
Those of you out there in Fantasyland. Our goal is usually 200 to 250. That's a string we use for growth hormone.

Speaker 7  2:17:28
You want to that part? I think you are more experienced than me when it comes into the growth hormone. So what

Bill Clearfield  2:17:35
I'm trying to get across is you know, what is what is somebody like Dr. Burgess who you know is coming in here cold. What does he What does he do?

Unknown Speaker  2:17:45
He has cold?

Bill Clearfield  2:17:46
No, he's coming in cold. He Dr. Burgess note doesn't know anything. You know that? That's right. He's calling me to do prolotherapy on them.

Speaker 5  2:17:57
And since you met the IGF one, we and I know we've made a few references to things that involve Dr. Forsyte. And I haven't heard much about him and I believe Melvin's taking his place pretty much all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:11
Yeah, he is yeah with Dr. foresights 88 years old, you know, he did start for him the monster

Speaker 5  2:18:16
but he was only with his horses. He was he was an expert on the IGF one, you know, 10 years and beyond. So no, no. Does that new do that?

Bill Clearfield  2:18:26
Those of you don't know in 2005 he was or he was he was arrested for illegally prescribing allegedly illegally driving growth hormone. And why

Speaker 7  2:18:39
the six hormone the IGF one will normalize as well. I mean, can you give a chance for doing the basic things and let that go and then and then figure out the other ones?

Bill Clearfield  2:18:48
All right, let me give you a couple a little bit more information on her. She has been on a gluten free, dairy free and sugar free diet for 20 years because she says it makes her ill. Which is good. Which is good, right? Her TSH was 1.79 and her free T three was 3.1.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:15
Yes, that's what was that? The TSH? How much

Bill Clearfield  2:19:19
1.79 Okay, that's okay. Yeah, and free T three is 3.1 which is you know, normal sort of mid to mid range. And reverse T three was 19.5.

Unknown Speaker  2:19:39
Is that high?

Bill Clearfield  2:19:41
Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 7  2:19:45
I will not give thyroid for those petitti. This is oxidative stress that she has from low six hormone and possibly from toxins we need to figure out once you improve the anti redox balance her time that that's responsible for conversion the Tea for Two to three I think that would normalize and her thyroid will be okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:08
So, what else do you need? What else do you need to know? I have a little more information. So

Speaker 7  2:20:15
I mean, I mean, whatever you have, it's good. You wanted me to ask what lab you wanted to do with this patient? Well,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:22
I in your hierarchy, where do you go from here?

Speaker 7  2:20:26
I will I will start treating the patient normalizing a sixth time on checking her if she has any heavy metals exposure and toxins. I'll go with that. And I will give her folic acid and beat well complex and all that and then I will see what's going on. I will not do everything at once because normalizing six hormone can normalize a lot of things out there.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:49
So are you saying that everybody who walks in the door you're going to do an endothelial

Speaker 7  2:20:53
whatever that? Yes. And their function test for everybody? And then what does it tell? Us? It tells us that this patients oxidative status, redox status, and inflammatory status, and when I stopped doing the six hormone or detoxing the body or whatever intervention I see, I can see that the score goes up. And that's mean my treatment is working. It does not go up. That's mean there's some other holes, that source of free radicals.

Bill Clearfield  2:21:24
Don't these patients tell you if they're not getting better?

Speaker 7  2:21:28
That's subjectively Yes. But it's good to have something that objectively showing that the entertainer is improved by my treatment.

Unknown Speaker  2:21:35
All right,

Bill Clearfield  2:21:36
so what What haven't you done in the initial workup that you should have done? And we gave which she gave you she gave you a hint or a clue that what should have done

Speaker 7  2:21:50
what I should have done? With her? Yeah. Besides normalizing our six hormone and seeing her toxic and giving him BB B complex endothelial function tests not another nervous system. That's one pack there. I don't know what what what do you want to add? Well,

Bill Clearfield  2:22:12
you know, she she gave you a hint. She told you that she was on a gluten free diet for 20 years because of the you know, gluten made her sick. You know?

Speaker 7  2:22:19
I don't know. Where? Yeah. Do you think that she has good things, sensitivity and celiac disease of those patients? Not necessarily though. I

Bill Clearfield  2:22:30
don't know. Like I said, this was the first time she came in. Right.

Speaker 7  2:22:33
So if you think that is the case, because some people they're doing it just for the hell. So I want to make sure in her past history, she's been diagnosed with celiac disease. If

Bill Clearfield  2:22:45
we do if we do a Gliadin antibody and it's negative, we're going to tell her if it's okay for her to eat gluten then.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:52
It is antibodies is negative

Bill Clearfield  2:22:55
is what if what if the gluten

Speaker 7  2:23:00
something that I know if patients is away from gluten for a long period of time, regardless of whether they have celiac disease or not. If you give them a vertical glow teen they will they will react to it and they will have a problem. Regardless if she has celiac disease or not,

Unknown Speaker  2:23:18
what's the problem? Well, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:23:19
of course.

Speaker 7  2:23:21
You got my point. Yeah, of course. My wife she's

Bill Clearfield  2:23:27
over when we when we went from whole milk to 2% milk because you know, we were supposed to be on a low fat diet and then we went to 1% and then right and then what did it taste like when you went back to the whole milk again, because you were you know, in the hospital and they only had hold?

Speaker 7  2:23:43
You know what happened? I tell you what happened. My wife she's here about inflammation of the milk so she stopped taking milk right? After one year of stopping taking milk and she used to drink milk, no problem. Now she takes any milk she's having bloating. You got my point? Yeah. So people if you stop taking something, you may end up becoming sensitive to it as well. If you take it back. It may take a little bit process for them to go back to the middle of but I'm just saying even if they are low, not taking Latino bad stuff. I would not even if she has celiac disease negative and we have all the investigation for that you can do I will

Bill Clearfield  2:24:27
not miss. Right. still miss the elephant in the room though.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:32
Well, let's learn from you man.

Bill Clearfield  2:24:35
I'm open. Okay. Whatever, thyroid antibodies.

Speaker 7  2:24:40
Okay, that's a good one. If you said that her thyroid function was was it normal? Right. That's normal. Yeah. If you expect that there is anti thyroid because of the past Why would I

Bill Clearfield  2:24:54
would I expect the reason I would have

Speaker 7  2:24:59
if they have if you expect patient has celiac disease. They also have tight tighter diets. They also have

Bill Clearfield  2:25:07
to was greater than 600 and their thyroid globulin was 3.6.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:12
So that's high right?

Bill Clearfield  2:25:15
That's very high.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:16
Right?

Speaker 7  2:25:17
So that's mean she is in an edge of

Bill Clearfield  2:25:21
ladies had this lady's had thyroid issues for over 20 years. And nobody checked her thyroid in it, but she

Speaker 7  2:25:28
did well the thyroid you said is almost normal except the T three right? The T four How much

Bill Clearfield  2:25:35
1.5 for

Unknown Speaker  2:25:37
the T four, T four,

Unknown Speaker  2:25:40
three.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:42
T three is 3.1.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:44
D four is low, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:25:47
T four is now that's actually on the higher end. How much 1.5 for

Speaker 7  2:25:54
one point okay, so above 1.1 to one Yeah. So so she is it good because of that the thyroid thing? She is starting having Hashimoto thyroiditis, but it's not manifested really

Bill Clearfield  2:26:09
had it for 20 years. So this is this is what I did. So So again, we went over the gluten free diet, which she already knew. So we did and so there's lots of ways to go. So we did. Start, NAD Mons, we gave we gave estradiol patch 10375 twice a week. Progesterone pills. 200 milligrams. And remember not progestins progesterone, and then we gave her testosterone 20 milligrams, I am weekly.

Speaker 7  2:26:50
That's cool. So now we'll help them the nation by the way, if you asked him what the thyroiditis

Bill Clearfield  2:26:55
she was on. I didn't tell you she was on 10,000 units of vitamin d3 a day so we cut that back to 5000 she was 99.9 she was taking probiotics. And she so we gave her I don't know if you know what it is secret trope and spread it's from Dr. Gordon's, sort of homeopathic formula of how to raise IGF one usually raises at about 25%. She didn't want any injections. We use plants. Carolyn's module care was the one I like, plant sterile ins are the they they act like Pac Man and they actually phagocytized thyroid antibodies. They on average will decrease your thyroid load TPO thyroid antibody load by about 50% in a year. So she's greater than 600. She could be a member I told you that one time I had one patient where they counted or allowed it was 40 226. That's my world record. So this will take a

Unknown Speaker  2:28:02
metric so and she she's on it or no

Bill Clearfield  2:28:06
no. I'll tell you what I told her about naltrexone in a minute we gave her DHEA and pregnenolone because those were low, and her memory was was kind of shot and then we gave her an adaptogenic herb also. The main ingredients are ashwagandha Rhodiola and quadriceps. You don't like that one. You making a face

Speaker 7  2:28:27
no no no I'm good. Okay, and

Bill Clearfield  2:28:33
and then we gave her some Berberine other cholesterol was a little high on so we gave her some Berberine for that. Okay, so that's that was what I did. And

Speaker 7  2:28:42
they go well, if their antibody is actually multi thing I'll give her nitric some for that but I will not give any.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:48
I usually ideally unless unless they're and she's actually one what I what I do is I send them home with or I email them. My my paper on low dose Naltrexone and I was always tell them to look it up on their own because I don't want them I want them to look at what somebody else says not what I what I write. It's against somebody else's perspective on it. And a lot of times but again, what I tell them is in the hour that you're here or hour and a half I'm not going to be able to know you know every aspect of your of your being and you know, if you ever look at the symptoms of hypothyroidism or thyroid, thyroid, even hyperthyroidism, you know, it's there's 400 of them. Right? So, so I asked them to manage

Speaker 7  2:29:36
their hypothyroid right, look it up on their own

Bill Clearfield  2:29:40
and see if it matches you know, a lot of the symptoms that they are present with. She compensated frequently what they'll do is I'll get a call tomorrow morning say yeah, this sounds like me. If I don't, I go with my ride with the what I showed you. I usually will redo the thyroid antibodies in about eight to 12 weeks. And if we're not getting anywhere, then we'll add that to the naltrexone. Right,

Speaker 7  2:30:05
but I will not give thyroid for this title. See for this patient.

Bill Clearfield  2:30:09
No, no, no. It's actually quite good. Right. You know the endocrinologist that's all they have, though. So you got to take Synthroid, that's it there's nothing

Speaker 7  2:30:20
better and that will lead to explore oxidative stress by increasing the sympathetic and more inflammation and more damaging and more autoimmune and more damaging for the thyroid. And then yes, then they will leave center Tyson thyroid

Bill Clearfield  2:30:34
so my challenge to you is to I gave you a specific set of circumstances. What do you what do you propose we do for this person?

Speaker 7  2:30:46
I will not do anything except the things that you did already what you're making right now and I will I will observe the effect of it because everything can be normalized by those things that you did, especially the normalizing the six or more

Bill Clearfield  2:31:00
now, you know, we have Dr. Burgess here and he's lost

Speaker 7  2:31:03
the heavy metals of the toxins. I mean, it's worth maybe want to do that screening if you want to check that if she has been exposed to the EMF, something that's been overlooked. Yeah, that's something you may need to consult with her because that can aggravate the inflammation. And but again, and just to function tests will be done before you do all the treatments so you can know your treatment is working or not objectively instead of subjectively, and I will let the patients absorb the effect of all of this and come up with a follow up.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:37
Okay. There's a lot of questions and comments in the chat. I don't know if you want to go over any of those.

Speaker 7  2:31:44
Yeah, go ahead, man. We still have time. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:31:48
so way back at bed 512 Our time which is three hours earlier than where you are. Let me find it. There was a comment about

Unknown Speaker  2:32:09
a

Bill Clearfield  2:32:12
was a comment about hooked humanity test for metabolism. metabolites. You know anything about that? What is that Steve? Or I don't know if he's still on it looks like he's still on human test. GMAP. So, you know, we've used the organic oats test and it's very complicated. I mean, they use all sorts of crazy language and he takes takes two to three hours takes me three hours to try and interpret it. I don't want to deal with that. You know, you got to you got to figure out what their what the language they're using an interpreted into into English so you know, I'll give you an example one that I know is Kenya retic acid you know, a measure that and that's B 12 folic acid, but there's I mean it you know, it's 30 pages.

Speaker 7  2:32:57
I will give folic acid that's part of the thing we talked about right? Say we because of her homocysteine high. I'll give her folic acid folinic folic acid better than folic acid. Therefore Lenny, I learned that folinic is better they have genetic snips you can bypass it, or antibodies against folic acid receptors. Whatever it

Speaker 3  2:33:19
is actually a urinary test that's almost equivalent to Dutch testing. It's

Bill Clearfield  2:33:24
I don't know I know from nothing so I know what the Dutch test. Okay, well. Okay, don't you have a performance to get ready for Alright, okay. Don't you have to put it when I give give a tough talk. I need three hours to get ready. I know. You must be you're young, I guess. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:45
Right now

Bill Clearfield  2:33:47
was Dr. Quinn mentioned something about curcumin? I'm not sure what the context was. It was after the endothelial function testing discussion.

Speaker 6  2:33:57
He was asking about some anti inflammatory that was yellow. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:34:02
that would be curcumin right that's guess. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:34:05
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:34:06
So

Bill Clearfield  2:34:10
rapeseed and Isilon. Okay. Dr. Burgess is looking for some volunteers for his research committee. John wanted to put your email address in the chat there all right. Thank you. JB JB five.com But I can't ever remember it. Okay, and Dr. halus has lots of questions. chelation psycho dextrose. I don't know what that is.

Speaker 7  2:34:46
That goes extra in Yes. Okay. Cycling, cycling.

Bill Clearfield  2:34:50
She spelled it Psy it's C YCLDX T ri na. Okay. She asked about activated charcoal. Again cyclodextrin. And the and how to get rid of toxins. So

Speaker 7  2:35:11
yeah, cyclodextrin will be one of the good thing for fat soluble toxin. It does work also for spike protein and mycotoxins as well. You can still do adta got activated charcoal and steel light but for fat soluble toxins. There is nothing that works except side right. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:35:30
As far as the spike protein Dr. McClure I'm on his email list. He had a great article overnight last night I sent it to you Dr. philosophy about spike protein and myocarditis and how to diagnose it and how to treat it. Maybe we can go over that.

Speaker 7  2:35:44
Again, cyclodextrin I send a text with them. He's very impressed about it. And there's articles about psychedelics and loading the spike proteins. He's using what's at symbol kinase to break the cycle the spike protein. I'm using psycho Dixon to just get it absorbed and get it out by dumping it throw the bio. But now the question

Bill Clearfield  2:36:10
is, how to how to flush out toxins from fat storages with cyclodextrin okay, my problem with cyclodextrin is a very you know by itself is you know, Doctor classes cyclodextrin is really expensive. I mean, it's $250 a month.

Speaker 7  2:36:28
Well, we have now loaded insipidus drone, oxytocin, it's included in in all those drugs. I think that will be enough to do both deliver drug and detox the body. So you can get achieved by having compounding pharmacy formulations like a dextran

Bill Clearfield  2:36:45
and again, Dr. halus. I get to guessing who we're talking about my patient that just prints he needs B 12 vitamin A and vitamin D Okay, well, we pretty much covered that. And then Dr. Quinn says that depending on which toxins are present, it will guide you how to detoxify, test for pesticides VOCs. I'm not sure what that is. Glyphosate can sometimes tell you what they're present but treatment is similar for most chemical toxins. heavy metal detox EDTA DMSA DMPS what's what's VOCs

Speaker 6  2:37:22
Dr. That's volatile organic compounds. You get from paints and things like that.

Speaker 6  2:37:33
You know, you get it from new carpet. You get it from the mastic that sticks carpet and tile down. You get VOCs from everywhere.

Bill Clearfield  2:37:41
Right about that new car smell like when we have kids.

Speaker 6  2:37:45
Yeah, that is the best smell gone, but it's kind of toxic.

Bill Clearfield  2:37:50
A lot of those things were in Dr. Dell mentions and not for not probably non Metalizer. The patients that I talked about home was that homocysteine is high. I mean,

Speaker 7  2:38:01
thank God I mean methylation needs to be taken care of because of homocysteine is high. That's why we've had with Taco Bell Amin plus folic acid.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:10
Dr. Harper mentions a 10 time methylation test. That's pricey.

Speaker 7  2:38:16
But you can just start with a methyl cobalamin and see what will happen with homocysteine after three months.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:22
What about it just

Speaker 9  2:38:23
or that methylation? You You don't give you only as a methylcobalamin? It's a combination of all four things you have to give. It's the paradox so five phosphate, folic acid and B Town and betaine hydrochloride. In you have to do all this for in order to lower the homocysteine and there is one good product protocol has which is called methyl action. And it has all four things

Speaker 7  2:38:56
and you repeat it again before we talk about

Unknown Speaker  2:39:01
that sorry, what do

Unknown Speaker  2:39:03
you

Unknown Speaker  2:39:04
mean for acid and magnesium?

Unknown Speaker  2:39:06
No

Speaker 9  2:39:07
no. Folic acid pyridoxal Five phosphate and betaine hydrochloride

Unknown Speaker  2:39:15
hydrochloride okay.

Speaker 9  2:39:19
And in there is a preparation called metal action, which is like $20 and and that lasts for about six weeks if you do that for three months, and then you'll do the another level most of the time unless it is in 18 and 20. If it is like in a in a 1516 range, it will come back to normal. Okay, and then you'll continue at a lower dose

Speaker 7  2:39:48
and then know why we had those other two ingredients. Do you know what they do? I'm sorry, why? Why are we adding the other two ingredients that the phosphate and that is

Speaker 9  2:39:59
the way it becomes very effective. Okay in reducing and and Dr. You were mentioning about the quinolinic acid and gotten uric acid. They are all all the mistakes. I think it's not just me dwelling but it is the be six sensitive indicator. So if you if you have a high Quinella you don't like acid or all kinds of uric acid is high. Those are the inflammatory markers in me. B six is also required when it is high.

Unknown Speaker  2:40:44
So B complex will cover everything

Speaker 9  2:40:47
now you it requires a higher amount of B B six paradoxal five phosphate is the active phosphorylated form of B six. And by sometimes you have to use the activated form. And if you're using B complex you also have to use the activated B complex which is phosphorylated and and it works much better in correcting those abnormalities.

Speaker 7  2:41:17
Thank you very much for that any other questions? I've been grilled today.

Unknown Speaker  2:41:27
Sheng Charlaine for yourself. cyclodextrin you did

Speaker 7  2:41:34
good. Okay, I feel the birthday.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:38
Okay. Again, Dr. Hopper mentions TMG for homocysteine also. And

Unknown Speaker  2:41:46
what I said we didn't have no right. Okay. Right.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:49
trimethyl Glen glycine and the other thing is Selenium has a pretty good track record with thyroid antibody soil, so 200 micrograms, we get about it can get up to 40% decrease just using selenium in

Speaker 7  2:42:06
iodide because this patient possibly is Iodine iodine deficiency, something you need to make consider that and also it helps in estrogen dominance. But if you can I give selenium with it because it does protect the thyroid fun the extra iodine

Bill Clearfield  2:42:23
I'm still unclear with the auto immune diseases if iodine is not as you need to be careful with that.

Speaker 7  2:42:29
I think with Selenium you are okay. So as long as you add selenium will be more peace of mind

Bill Clearfield  2:42:35
and Stefan still on or is he gone he's now

Speaker 1  2:42:38
I agree and load them with Selenium first if you're worried give him 300 micrograms gives them three antimigraine selenium for three months. And then you can start the iodine if you're worried about it, but if you give them selenium, this should be fine. Yes.

Bill Clearfield  2:42:52
Okay. Okay. Anybody else have any comments or questions was was quite a marathon.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:00
Grilling.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:01
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:02
What's next week?

Bill Clearfield  2:43:04
Next week. We have Dr. John gnustats. Coming coming back. Remember he talked to us about osteoporosis a few weeks ago. A couple of months ago. He's going to sort of expand on that and he's going to I know we've had a few lectures on the microbiome, but he's going to he's going to give us his perspective on that also. So that's next week. And then the week after that, we have got Lisa Talati. Now Lisa is the our influencer from New Zealand. She's a podcaster there. She's an expert in hyperbaric oxygen. She was a marathon runner. And she's quite quite the gal she interviewed me. I'm on her podcast and we hadn't had a grand time. And she's she's been in our audience a few times. And then the week after that is September 3 And we got Heather halus who's joined us tonight and has stuck stuck to it stuck in there. So thank you so much. And and we're gonna hear about her what she's been up to. Okay. 10:10pm Pacific, which is 1pm 1am. Eastern Time, Doctor scenarios, Philippine alternative medicine conferences live streamed on, on YouTube, just type in prima Phil PR I am a Ph I ll and that'll get you to the to the link when on

Unknown Speaker  2:44:40
Facebook. Facebook Live

Bill Clearfield  2:44:43
on Facebook Live. Okay, that I get it right.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:47
Yes. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:44:49
Okay, so if you're

Unknown Speaker  2:44:50
interested now,

Speaker 7  2:44:51
then 30 What's that? How many people have to 1030? Okay, that's 50 proceeds.

Speaker 2  2:45:00
And Steve was asking for a link and I'm not sure what link he was asking for. Oh, that might be it.

Speaker 7  2:45:17
That's good. Let me start with 45 in the upper 26

Unknown Speaker  2:45:27
Yep, that was a

Unknown Speaker  2:45:34
great class. October drop off

Unknown Speaker  2:45:43
everybody I need to eat I'm hungry.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:48
Somebody wake up Bill.

Unknown Speaker  2:45:53
Thanks, Dr. Lawson. That was awesome.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:01
Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai