Bill Clearfield  00:35
Yep, there she is. There you go.

Unknown Speaker  00:52
Can you hear me? Now?

Bill Clearfield  00:53
Hear you now?

Unknown Speaker  00:55
Okay, lovely to see you.

Bill Clearfield  01:01
It's always good to see you.

Speaker 1  01:05
Do you want to test out my presentation and see whether, because I'm a bit of a technical idiot, so just want to make sure that the presentation works. If we can do you, just give me the sharing rights, or how does that work?

Bill Clearfield  01:24
It should be there, right down at the bottom there. I think you should have

Unknown Speaker  01:27
it. Oh,

Speaker 1  01:31
yeah, can you see that? Absolutely, okay, yeah. Excellent, excellent. So okay, just check that's all there. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, good. Okay, right. But nervous.

Unknown Speaker  01:54
Hey, doctor Melvin,

Bill Clearfield  01:55
you run these things time. What are you nervous about?

Speaker 1  01:59
Not, not only not on the aging of the immune system. This is the, the second time I've delivered this one. So I'm a bit nervous, but we'll get there.

Speaker 2  02:09
No nervous here. Yeah, we don't do it

Unknown Speaker  02:12
well, at least I got my friends. Hey, doctor Calvin, you have Dr

Bill Clearfield  02:18
Nario there too, doctor,

Unknown Speaker  02:21
all through the way.

Speaker 1  02:23
Excellent, excellent. Yeah, you'll rescue me if I stumble all over the place.

Bill Clearfield  02:29
Not, not a problem. We'll help you through it. Dr Nario is going to integrative medicine school now, so he's he's a lot smarter than us,

Unknown Speaker  02:39
which I'm praying for.

Bill Clearfield  02:43
We've been making it up as we go along, but he went to the real school. He's going to a real school now.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
Oh, no, are you? Are you getting all official on this? Yeah, it's,

Speaker 2  02:55
it's a fellowship in the University of Arizona. It's and Andrew Weil integrative medicine program, and, yeah, we're, I'm with these group of specialists. So we kind of like trying to mingle undetected there with all these high class doctors, you know.

Bill Clearfield  03:16
So one of the, one of the things we do every week, Lisa is we asked Dr Nario to give us the, you know, the the integrative Tip of the Week from from the University of Arizona, so the rest of us don't have to go there and pay them their outrageous fee. So, I mean, the first, what was it, the first week it was you shouldn't be riding a bicycle, because, oh yeah, yeah, right. I mean, so, so far, I'm not impressed.

Speaker 2  03:47
Well, well, the school, because the school focuses on basic integrative medicine, it's, we're expecting peptides, hormone therapies. But this, Andrew Weil is, is a classic integrative doctor. So he he went to the Amazon, lived with the shamans. He actually, he's an herbalist. So he has a plants all over the place. So we're dealing with natural, natural stuff here, and even mushrooms, psilocybin. So these type of things are the ones that we kind of speak of.

Bill Clearfield  04:20
And as you can see there, next to you, as soon as you say mushrooms, Dr Burgess is ears. Pick up perco.

Speaker 1  04:29
What type of mushroom? Hi John. Lovely to see you.

Bill Clearfield  04:33
He didn't get that. He didn't get that physique from from abstaining.

Speaker 3  04:40
Hey, Lisa, great to see you here. Yeah, you too. Long time listening. And another one of our good friends who deals with psychedelics, we're going to have a meeting may 30 with our group here on the East Coast, but he can't make it because he's going to be one of the chief lecturers on the fungus. So it seems that subjects coming up more and more and more. And if Andrew, so Andrew wild, is finally doing it now. Oh, he's

Speaker 2  05:12
been doing it for a while, since his hair was still black. Maybe he's when he still had hair.

Bill Clearfield  05:19
I met him before he had a beard. So you know how long ago that was

Speaker 2  05:23
forever. I couldn't imagine how he looked like without the beard. That's his MO, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:28
where it is now,

Speaker 2  05:32
he's 80, I think 83 Wow. And he's walking the halls of the university and still seeing patients in the in his the integrative clinic here there in Arizona. So that's a tough man for you.

Speaker 1  05:47
Yeah, that says something, doesn't it? He must be doing something, right?

Unknown Speaker  05:52
Have you heard of him? Lisa and Joe? I've heard

Speaker 1  05:54
the name, but no, I haven't really dived into any of his work. No, alright, he's got a beard. Oh, have a look. I bet it's not as good as Dr John's bed. That's a really nice bed.

Speaker 3  06:09
And nobody. Where's Joel tonight? He's the record holder for the beard. I

Bill Clearfield  06:13
don't know. I don't know if he's going to be around or not. So we'll see.

Speaker 3  06:19
Hey, Lisa, wherever you're getting your education, Lisa, however you're doing, you're one of the knowledge you're one of the most knowledgeable people I've ever run into. So you kidding

Speaker 1  06:33
me? Kindergarten? I'm still at the kindergarten stage. I don't

Unknown Speaker  06:37
think Bill and Melvin would agree with that.

Speaker 2  06:39
No, I'm hands up to Lisa here. She's the top notch in New Zealand.

Speaker 1  06:47
Well, that doesn't say very much. No, we have some brilliant doctors down here. No, it's just that I'm very, very interested in all the cutting edge stuff, and I just couldn't be bothered going, you know, through the normal channels. I just want to cut to the actual Chase. So I like to learn in a very weird fashion, of just just absorbing what I need at the time, rather than, you know, in a structured program. I'm not very good with structure, so because I'm a rebel by by nature, you see. So that's, that's part of the problem. I think

Speaker 2  07:25
it was the community growing over there in New Zealand, of integrative practitioners. Yeah,

Speaker 1  07:30
we're doing great. And thank you for sharing on the doctor, Melvin, because we've only been going for five months. Yeah, five months, I think now. So it's small, but growing, you know, like, I've just gotta, it's like trying to, you know, getting a jumbo jet out onto the runway and then taking off hopefully, but I've just gotta keep going and keep providing. We're getting really good feedback. So people are loving it. It's just getting more people engaged and more people joining and, well, you know what it's like, properly, Doctor Bill. I mean, you've got a big group, and you've been doing it for a long time, but it's quite a lot of work, isn't it, doing all this, organizing it all, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  08:09
yeah. And you have to, you have to the tomatoes and the bricks too.

Speaker 1  08:12
Yeah, exactly, yeah. I haven't had any of those yet. I've been, I've had, well, I've sort of thought, well, if anyone's not nice to me. They're out. So it's a good way to deal with it. Well,

Speaker 2  08:26
you have to start somewhere. So you're the smart, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  08:29
yes, exactly. I think it's actually an advantage that you you've escaped the, you know, having to having the medical degree, and then having to sort of kowtow to medical boards and things. Because, yeah, they really, you know, you know, it's their way or the highway in the and they're the bosses. So, yeah, that was like, Jay Campbell, I know you've had him on, right? Yeah, he's funny. He's got no he's got no restrictions either. He can just say whatever the hell he wants.

Speaker 1  09:03
Not quite that radical. He's really radical. But, yeah, exactly right. You've sort of got more limitations when you're in the system as when you're outside of the system, so to speak, a little bit and, and when you're an educator, and I sort of, you know, put myself in the investigative journalist, type of, you know, then I'm just investigating everything and interviewing credible people and, you know, sharing their knowledge, rather than being the expert myself. And that's why, like doing something like this is is still new to me, because, you know, I'm not the expert. Usually, I'm usually interviewing the expert. So it's a little bit of a different ball game. But I am really keen to share all of this that I've, what I've been working on for last couple of years. So it's going to be, hopefully, exciting, and yeah, and I've, yeah, just before we get started, too. I just wanted to tell you about that neuronic Doctor Bill, you know that red light helmet? Did I introduce you to Liam Pingree that you're going to have on? Hopefully, that's been amazing, like, mum's cognitive improvements in the last five, six weeks since I've had the helmet, which looks like this, yeah, I'll show you. This is the helmet, right? Oh, can you see that?

Bill Clearfield  10:17
Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so

Speaker 1  10:21
she's been wearing that three times a day. She's started to, well, she's now walking around the house by herself. She's talking a whole lot more. She's She's emotional, like she's connecting emotionally for the first time in years, which is just just absolutely amazing. So I'm really, really impressed.

Bill Clearfield  10:44
You are, you are a miracle worker. So, well,

Speaker 1  10:47
no, I mean, I'm picking all these things together and putting them all into one program. I don't think anybody's probably done that before to this degree. You know, we got the progesterone nasal spray that you recommended, too. Took me bloody months to get it, but I got it for here, and that's really helped with the hydrocephalic it

Bill Clearfield  11:05
take us months to get it also. So, right? Well,

Speaker 1  11:08
yeah, well, that was a, really a key thing as well. So that's been going in nightly as well. And she, she's now, yeah, walking on her own for the first time in two years. You know,

Bill Clearfield  11:20
have you used any of the brain peptides with her, like cerebral license or celanc?

Speaker 1  11:27
Yeah, I'm doing cerebral license right now, but the place where I was getting it from is just had it stopped again, so we can't get any more. So I'm a bit gutted about that. So yeah, I've only got another three bottles of it, and I've used C link and C max. I didn't see a massive difference with those ones, but I probably didn't give it a long enough try. And those are the only, the only ones that I've used in the cognitive I was looking at those bio regulator, the cogni Pep. And have you had a look at those ones, the ones that are coming? I haven't

Bill Clearfield  11:59
used any yet. But no, neither look at them. You know, you know who you know hawks them. Everything's the greatest thing since, yes, Brett,

Speaker 1  12:09
exactly, yeah, yeah, exactly. So you gotta take it with a grain of salt. And some of these are good. I mean, I think the cerebral, cerebral license is definitely,

Bill Clearfield  12:20
we use that for a long time, and it was one of the ones that so when COVID first showed up, in the back of my mind, I was reminded that, you know, the SARS viruses weren't actually new, and it was just, was just a newer variation. And there had been outbreaks, one in the Middle East, and I think one in Africa, maybe in like early 2000 and they actually used the thymosa Alpha One and thymosa Beta four, pretty successful. So of course, within the first two weeks, the FDA here banned them. Yeah, of course, yeah, you could, you could use them. You couldn't get them. So, yeah. And then there was something with cerebral license too, because we've been using that with with stroke patients with really good success. Yeah, I

Speaker 1  13:13
think, you know, cerebral license, can you still get it? Because I'm really

Bill Clearfield  13:20
been able to, I can get three. I can get so lanc and C max,

Unknown Speaker  13:23
yeah, you're right,

Bill Clearfield  13:27
yeah, those we can get, yeah, not good. Well, you know, all three together, I think was the was, was the key. We had much better, not much better response. And I never really used the other two, the C max or the Select by themselves together. So okay, and it was either getting it or the cost was the, was the, you know, the, but we had really good response. I remember the first patient that I had. He was, he was a was in his 70s, and he was a college. He was an English professor at a college in in Wilkes Barre, where I lived. And he had a stroke. He had a hemorrhagic stroke. Not a, not a clock. You're not a, you know. And his wife took him home, and he would be out out in the wintertime, wandering the streets and his pajamas and tearing a house up. And she said, you know, she didn't know what what she was going to do. She was going to have to put him in a home. And I had just been taking, I just taken the a four M's peptide. Course, I just finished it. And I said, Well, we got this stuff here. I don't know if it's going to work. I mean, theoretically that this is what they tell us. And I mean, within eight weeks he was he had calmed down, he was back to reading, and he actually went back as a teaching assistant. Wow. Yeah. So he went from pretty much going, going into a nursing home, to really, now again, he didn't, he didn't have a, you know, in fart. So I think it's a was a little bit easier for him to recover. But, I mean, he went from just as well, stumbling, bumbling, and, you know, not taking care of himself, to he would got, he was pretty much back to, you know, he wasn't 100% but he was, you know, livable at least.

Speaker 1  15:25
Oh, wow, that's pretty cool off to try that. So I only got an hour today. Dr Bill, so we probably alright.

Bill Clearfield  15:32
So, Dr nariel, we'll get your report after, Lisa, then so

Speaker 2  15:38
I might, I might escape a little quicker. Sorry, Elisa, maybe I can do it's going to

Speaker 1  15:44
be fast. Yeah? Don't do it now. Go for it. Go for it. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  15:47
Alright. So in the world of the University of Arizona, so our tip for today would be anthocyanins. Again, this is something that I feel, something new for me, but maybe this is something already you guys know about. So Ephesians was something that we spoke about, and it's actually a water soluble pigment that belongs to the flavonoid family. And this is why grapes and other fruits are red, purple and blue. And even vegetables and flowers, you would see this as well. And of course, this defines the color, defines anti oxidation and also anti inflammatory properties of such fruit or flower. The thing here is, as I understand this now that there is a key when you harvest these, for example, grapes, so the harvesting is very important in terms of probably get these grates, get by them in the late summertime for the reason that it's the optimal ripeness and it's balanced sugar levels and even the phenolic maturity. So meaning, when you buy grapes, go for the red ones, which are actually more anthocyanins, and the green grapes. And this also actually can not only has anthocyanins, but also higher levels of resveratrol and quercetin. So that's why, when I guess now I'm doing this in the grocery store, I'm really looking at these grapes, and now maybe looking at it in more sense of a value for the for the purple ones, than the greens. So just more of a dietary tip today, and hopefully you can do that in your own shopping. Amazing.

Bill Clearfield  17:24
Okay, so thank you. Thank you for that. I don't know if so we've had Lisa tomati on before. I probably needs really no introduction. Remember Lisa was 25 years as a ultra marathon runner. She's last time she was on with her, she showed us that incredible video running in the Himalayas, running in Death Valley. You know, I don't know if there was some mental issues going on there. Thanks, Doctor. We've learned a lot about what happens to when, when someone you know over exercises and all the metabolic right? She clocked over 70,000 kilometers in that time, and has led, participated in expeditions and surviving an illegal crossing in the Libyan desert. Okay? She champions resilience, grit and determination, and uses her experience to inspire others. She's a past winner of the let me see if I say this right. Maori Sports, Woman of the Year, holds numerous national championship titles as well as international event podium finishes. She dedicates her life now to coaching, speaking, podcasting and writing. Her white hot imperative is to help people achieve their potential. She authored, she's authored five books, including international best sellers, running hot, running to extremes. She hosts her own podcast, pushing the limits, which Dr Nario was on, I think it was last week, and it's on YouTube, named one of the top 200 health and wellness podcasts in the world. And on our email this week, I we have the video that we did from last time. And then, you know, and then on top of all that, Lisa, his mother, had a stroke and was pretty much bedridden, and the doctors, of course, told her just a nursing home and go home. And Lisa's taking it upon herself to do whatever she can to rehab. Mom and we went. Went from pretty much laying in bed, staring at the ceiling, to the last I saw she was actually almost running, right?

Unknown Speaker  19:40
Yep. She is now again, running,

Bill Clearfield  19:44
okay, so, but tonight, she's going to talk about some immune stuff for us, right? What did I call it? Sometimes I make it up, anti aging, anti aging through the lens of the immune system. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  20:02
Yep, that's so good. Thank you. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  20:04
Remember Lisa's in New Zealand, by the way. So So Lisa take it away.

Speaker 1  20:10
Thank you, Doctor Bowen. It's wonderful to be here again with this lovely group of people. Thank you so much for having me. And today I'm going to be, yeah, not talking about mom so much as well. Actually I am, because the impetus for this whole research was mum. So once again, I when I was working with Mum, I was working and realizing that the immune system was really at the cornerstone of of everything age related. And as I went through research year after year after year, I sort of came into the the effect that to the knowledge that the immune system was at the basis of all the hallmarks of aging. So, you know this graphic here, we will talk about health span being more important than lifespan, right? We want health span. We want to be functional and vital in the ability to form our tasks. And so we want to have that health span. And how are we going to do that? Well, I'm going to look over here at the immune system as the key, the core system to do that. Now the cell is at the core of our life systems, and we're made up of 50 trillion cells, which is a heck of a lot. Now we focus on cellular health, and you guys are all into cellular health and integrative medicine, and we're looking at how the cell operates and and it's the foundation of that is the immune system health. So the immune system influences all of the hallmarks of aging. So back in 2009 we had the seminal work that was all about the hallmarks of aging. Back then it was nine, and now it's 12, and some say 14, but these, all these hallmarks of aging, have been things that we've been able to target, to go after, to slow the aging body, right? And we've been, you know, dealing with dysbiosis and genomic instability and mitochondrial dysfunction, but in it plays a crucial role in interacting with and influencing many hallmarks of aging. So we wanted to have a look at it is if we, instead of going a whack a mole approach, which, as a clinician, I was doing, like, you know, how do I tackle dysbiosis and genomic instability and cellular senescence and coming up with a whole list of supplements and dietary changes to attack each one of these hallmarks of aging, I sort of decided that we'd be better to come back down to the immune system, because it affects downstream all of these hallmarks of aging. Does that make sense? I hope so. We're going to be talking a little bit about immuno senescence. So what is immunosenescence? It's a gradual deterioration of the immune system that's associated with aging, and this process leads to diminished immune responses, making older individuals more susceptible to infections, diseases, reduced vaccine efficacy. We get some key changes in the immune system. We have thymic involution, which is on this lovely graphic here, our thymus gland. The thymus is responsible for T cell maturation, and it shrinks with age, resulting in fewer naive T cells and a reduced ability to respond to new antigens. We also have altered T cell function. There's a shift towards more of the memory T cells and a decreased T cell receptor diversity and impaired signaling, leading to a less effective immune responses. We also get a B cell decline. Aging affects the B cell function, leading to reduced antibody production and diversity, compromising the body's ability to fight infections, and then we get innate immunity impairment, and our natural killer cells and dendritic cells exhibit reduced functionality, affecting the body's first line of defense. So and this all has a massive impact on our aging. So when we are babies, the thymus gland is a huge, great gland in the chest. If you take a x ray of a baby, it takes up most of their chest. By the time we're like 13 to 15 years of age, the thymus is already starting to involute, starting to get a fatty infiltrate, and by the time you're my age, in your late 50s, it's basically not doing very much at all, and it's a fatty little nub in your chest that's not doing its job very well anymore. And I know there are, there are scientists working on making new thymus glands, but we're not quite there yet. And in the world of integrative and functional medicine, of course, we've used thymic peptides, which have been really helpful. You know, the as we were talking the thymus in beta four, the thymus and alpha one and so on, that helps improve the thymic function. But these are quite difficult to do, quite expensive, etc. And so we were looking at things that could really help with the thymus and pollution problem that we have, and looking to find something that could help with that. So as we age this once really vigilant system. So our immune system is really incredibly vigilant, and it stops all the pathogens and the bacteria and the cancer cells and so on. But it undergoes changes over time that compromise its efficiency and immunosenescence encompasses alterations in both the innate and the adaptive immune responses, leading to a decline in the body's ability to recognize and combat threats. And it's not just older people that are dealing with immuno senescence. Of course, anyone sort of over the age of 40 is going to be having some of these problems, but younger people that have been exposed to virus after virus, or toxins or surgeries or anything else that would be challenging, the immune system can also have a decline in the in the immune system. Now this graphic here, I'm not going to go over it all in detail, and I'll be sharing the the slide deck with you guys if you want to read it. But this is all about the how the immune system is actually related to all of the hallmarks of aging and what each of them does. So if we just take the first one, genomic instability, the immune cells, like T cells, helping the surveillance for an elimination of cells with damaged DNA to prevent things like the development of cancer. And so this graphic, really, if you go through it in detail, gives you an indication of how the immune cell is affecting each single one of these hallmarks of aging. And the immune system plays a really crucial role in interacting with and influencing many of these, and it's modulating the inflammatory processes and underscores its significance in the aging process, so we're looking for strategies to support immune health really could contribute significantly to our ability to fight age related decline and promote healthy aging. So what actually happens when we age? Well, we get a decreased cell number and function. We get a change in tissue structure, and we get an increase in inflammation in the heart cells that looks like a reduced cell number of cardio sites, decreased strength and elasticity of the cardiac walls in the musculoskeletal system that looks like increased brittleness, a changed in bone mineral density, in The protein matrix, a decline in muscle mass, in formation, and a decrease of fast myosin fibers and accumulation of fat tissues in the brain. It's decreased brain volume, a deterioration of the myelin sheath, a decrease in the temporal lobe and a decrease in the hippocampal volume and respiratory rise. It's also looking at reduced cough strength, and it's reduced ability of the city aligning of the upper and lower and decreased alveoli in the gastrointestinal tract. It's decreased microbiome diversity, reduced gut motility and a loss of intestinal barrier integrity. So these are all the things that make up, if you like, immunosenescence and what we experience as we age. And this is what we know is studying and going going through the years, realizing that if, instead of just trying to put an antioxidant or put in XYZ, it would be better if we could actually support this whole immunosenescence situation. So some of the key factors, again, thymic involution, which we've already talked about, reduced immune cells. So aging impairs the proliferation and function of the immune cells, like the B cells and the macrophages. And on the macrophage front, we have actually like the m1 and the m2 and the M ones are more of the inflammatory types of of macrophages, and we get a more askew towards the m1 macrophages, as we get older and less of the m2 we get cytokine dysregulation, so we get chronic low grade inflammation, termed inflammaging, and that becomes more prevalent with age, and this disrupts the delicate balance of the cytokines and the signaling molecules crucial for immune communication. And then, of course, we get telomere shortening. And I've actually just done a course. I did a three part course with Dr Bill Andrews, who is a world leading telomere scientist on the shortening of of telomeres, and how detrimental that is, and how that limits, how you know the length of life currently that we can live, and he's working on ways to lengthen telomeres. But immunosenescence, a graduate decline of the immune system with age, accelerates the telomere shortening, which is a key marker of cellular aging. Enhancing the immune function can help slow the rate of telomere shortening and preserve cellular health and promoting longevity. I can share with that with you too, Dr Bill that course, that I've done with Dr Bill Andrews, so some of the key factors, just again, looking at this whole picture of immunosenescence and what it is we're getting impaired immune responses, TK, T cells, natural killer cells, B cells, macrophages, etc. And we're getting infection risks going up, age related diseases, cardiovascular, neurodegenerative, auto immune diseases and metabolic and of course, cancer is beginning. So thymus degeneration is one of the main factors. Of it, the T cell output is declining. We're getting the SAS, the secretory associated what is it? Secretory phenotype, inflammaging, we get the increase in the cytokines, il six, il eight, and so on, all of those age related cytokines that start to go up, we get T cell population changes. We get naive T cells going down, memory T cells going up, effector T cells going down, and virtual memory cells going going up, and antigen recognition repertoire going down. Then we also have metabolic changes going on, as you'll know, we get a lot more diabetes. As we get older, we get much more blood sugar dysregulation. Our glycolysis goes up, a reactive oxygen species number goes up, and our mitochondrial biogenesis goes down. So all of this is happening at the you know, over time, as this immunosenescence goes through. The consequences of this are that we have more susceptibility to infections. The waning of the immune function makes older individuals more susceptible to infections, leading to the higher morbidity and mortality rates. We have impaired vaccine responses. So you know, giving older adults, we know vaccines, they don't generally respond that well because they don't have the thymus that's functioning and they don't have the right response that they should do to vaccines and autoimmune disorders, the dysregulation of the immune responses may contribute to the development of autoimmune disorders where we our immune system mistakenly attacks our own body tissues, And we see this, the older we are, the more we're exposed to different viruses, you know, like CMV and Epstein Barr that everybody's had, and COVID, of course. And all of these viruses are suppressing, having to be suppressed by our immune system. And then when we go and throw in a whole lot of vaccines and toxins and a whole lot of bad food. Of course, our immune system is going to be starting to become confused, and this is leading to more autoimmune disorders. And of course, during the whole COVID pandemic, we saw reactivation of Epstein Barr Virus, and you probably have seen this in the clinic, more activation of the herpes virus, because the immune system is not able to keep her control, and it's having to suppress all of these viruses that hang around in the body. It does it successfully for a number of years, but it's actually taking away a lot of the energy from the immune system to to to be fighting these viruses, right? And that's actually taking away from our ATP that our mitochondria produce for life, so that we're more fatigued. We're getting more fatigue as well as alongside all these autoimmune disorders. And then, of course, our cancer susceptibility goes up because we have an immune a compromised immune surveillance system, and that allows for the escape and the proliferation of potentially cancerous cells, increasing the risk of cancer. Now, a few months ago, I had the privilege of interviewing Dr David Furman, who Dr Bill. You have to get this guy on your podcast or on your webinars. Now he is the project lead at the Bucha Institute of energy and Stanford University's 1000 immunohis project. I really encourage you to check this project out, and again, I'll share that interview with him that I did. This is the world's largest longitudinal population based study of immunology and aging. So they've taken over 1000 people over a 15 year period, and they've taken blood tests all along this 15 year period, and they're looking at transcriptomics and proteomics and all the O mixes. And as you know, the computational ability of computers and things has got better. It's become even more effective. They have now devised something called the IH test, which I'm actually really excited about. So I'll just interrupt talking about the immune system to talk about this ih test, because I think you guys might be interested. The IH test looks at different proteins in the blood, and it gives you a marker of aging. So we're all familiar with the methylation clocks and the glycan age clocks and all of these things, but the IH clock, I think, is the best aging clock out there, in my opinion, because it's looking at proteins, so it's not looking at a surrogate marker, like with a methylation test, which I think, based on the stuff that I've done, and having had those tests done on myself, and seeing it, I don't think we're quite there yet with the science. I think some of it's actionable. Most of it's not. I think the IH test is a much more interesting test clinically, because it really gives us practicable proteins that we can observe and make sure that we're starting to shift those in the right direction. So they've come up with a list of proteins that they are measuring in the blood that give them an indication on how well somebody's immune system is doing and how well therefore their inflammaging is doing, and it's called the eye age clock, or the inflammation or immune clock, and it's coming to market right now in America. So it is probably out already in some places. I know Dr firmer is looking for different clinics to be doing using this, and it's what it does, is it gives us this ability to see whether the interventions that we're putting in, the supplements, the lifestyle changes, is actually having an effect really practically. So do go and check out that the IH test that they're doing at the 1000 amino project, one of the proteins that came out of it, the most important one was one called CX, CL nine, which you've probably never heard of, and it's a chemo kind that I will talk a little bit more about later on in the presentation, but that's one that's a really key one that not many people are talking about. We're all talking about interleukin six and interleukin one beta and TNF alpha and you know, kappa B and all these ones, but there were a whole lot of other things, like ear tax and and trail and CXL one and two and three, and, you know, a whole bunch that were really different, really these are really different proteins that they're showing. And Dr fuhrman's team are also working with NASA, with the astronauts, and be because in space, we age 30 times faster. So for every year in space, we are actually aging 30 years. The astronauts are aging 30 years. So when they're coming back with a five times higher risk of cardiovascular diseases, they're getting reactivation of immune viruses. They're getting a degeneration and neurodegeneration and so on and so forth. So, Dr Fuhrman has been given a big grant to help NASA try to work out how to slow the aging process for these astronauts that are facing that. Oh, what happened to my thing? Did you do that? Dr Bill, are you there? Wasn't me. Wow.

Bill Clearfield  37:44
You hit some buttons somewhere. Go to the single page. Go back to that and go back to the single page. Single Page. Diego, oh, now, now we see you. Yeah, I'll just,

Speaker 1  38:01
I'll just share again. Ah, bugger. That's typical, isn't it? Hang

Bill Clearfield  38:08
on. You're on a roll there too. Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  38:11
was on a real road.

Speaker 1  38:18
See if I can pick it up again. I No, for some reason it's gone and buggered up my presentation. What I have to do? I don't know why it's doing this, and I don't know how to get it back.

Bill Clearfield  38:35
You got it? Go, go back to that one you haven't clicked on thumbnails.

Unknown Speaker  38:43
Yeah, I didn't touch it, though, so I don't know how that happened. Just give me a moment. Sorry, guys, always, I'll have to carry on without it. Do my best.

Bill Clearfield  39:01
Anybody out there this stuff works? Somebody out here should know how it,

Speaker 1  39:10
yeah, why? Why is it? It's something to do with the zooming in and zooming out.

Bill Clearfield  39:16
You have like, four or six, uh, slides all together. So,

Speaker 1  39:22
yeah, well, I can probably piecemeal it together anyway. So, so just focus on the one that I've got the cursor on. So that's, yeah, the 1000 immunos project anyway, worth going and checking out, worth putting it into your practice, perhaps, to help test your people before and after interventions to see whether you're actually making a difference. Now, coming back to what I've been doing for the last couple of years, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  39:48
we're looking at you. We don't, we don't. Haven't

Speaker 1  39:50
got it at all. No, God's sake.

Speaker 1  40:01
There we go. Got it now? Yep, here we go. Okay, it's smaller, but yeah. So what this coming back now to what I've been doing for the last couple of years, and it's working on a formulation. And this is an immune immuno senescence formulation aimed at the immune system, aimed at stopping the immunosenescence or slowing down the immune system decline. It's also going to help with gut health and cellular health. And I've been working with a really world class team of scientists and scientific advisors and and people behind this product, and I want to share with you a couple of the ingredients that are really, really key, right? And what we were trying to do. So I'm going to start off with this one here, immune defense protein. So the up on the left hand corner, if you look, I'll be using this slide, right? So when I was working with mum, and I was like, trying to help her things with, like, a lymphocyte count and get her Zonulin down, and, you know, microbiome testing and realizing she had leaky gut and all of these things. And I was looking for something that out in the market that could help with a number of these problems that we have with the Amino senescence, which we've just gone over. And in my travels, I came across a ingredient called immune defense protein. Now this is from New Zealand cows. Pasture feed New Zealand cows. We have very strict rules over here on our farming practices. So our cows are all pasture. They're outside all year round. And this is a ingredient that is taken out of the whey fraction out of the protein fraction of milk, and it is 50 bioactive whey proteins all in one ingredient. So we've taken out all of the other the milk, the fat, the casein, the whey, and we've just been left with 50 bioactive whey proteins. Now the bioactive whey complex is very anti microbial. It's select. Is selective antimicrobial, so it kills off all the bad bacteria, but not the commensal bacteria. So it's very, very supportive of the Bifido bacteria and the lactobacillus bacteria. So that was one thing that it did, and it's very good at targeting the harmful pathogens. And this has over 15 years with a clinical research behind this particular ingredient. And it spares all the all the beneficial probiotic ones. It's very antioxidant rich, and helps with oxidative stress on the organs, and it has something called lactoferrin. Do you guys know about lactoferrin at all? Probably come across lactoferrin in your travels.

Bill Clearfield  42:51
Yes, we have. Yes we do.

Speaker 1  42:53
So lactoferrin. There are biannual conferences held all around the world and the the wonders of lactoferrin, and the list of things that lactoferrin does is longer than your arm, and it's you know better to look at the things that it doesn't do. But this bioactive complex contains 40% lactoferrin, but it also contains something called lacto peroxidase, and it has 48 other proteins in it as well, bioactive proteins that make up a sweet and it's a synergy between these that makes it much, much more powerful than just lactoferrin on its own. So I interviewed Dr rod Claycomb, and again, I can share the podcast with you, but he is the founder of Contech and Quantic, have been studying this one thing for 15 years, and they have done 100 you know, different clinical studies on it. And what they were looking for, originally, they were trying to get a really good quality lactoferrin, and they were purifying it and purifying it. And what they found, the more they purified the lactoferrin, the less effective, it was the less activity it had. And they were like scratching his their heads as to why would a more pure lactoferrin have less activity. And then they realized that it was because it was a part of a synergistic 50 together the way nature had evolved. It in the cow to protect the cow from inflammation and infection. So when a cow is feeding its young, that calf is dirty. Of course, it's sucking on the teeth of the mother multiple times a day, the chance for infection is very, very high, and so nature evolved the suite of 50 bioactive proteins to protect the mother from the infection risk and the inflammation risk that's associated with feeding her calf. And this has got lactoferrin at 40% and it's got lacto peroxidase and some other bits and pieces in it. Now lactoferrin itself is very, very powerful as a iron sequestering agent. It helps which iron, of course, can feed the virus, viruses in our body. So we want the iron, we need it in certain levels. It helps deliver the iron to where it's needed, but not feed the viruses, which is a really interesting thing that it does. Another thing that immune defense protein does, and its clinical benefits and mechanistic pathways is it really helps with the secretory IgA pathway. So when you're doing microbiome tests and you look at Secretory IgA, if someone's got a low Sega, then you know that they're probably going to be prone to everything that comes in on their food and infections. They've got a high risk, right? They've also likely to have some adrenal issues and autoimmune issues if they've got a poor Secretory IgA. Now this IDP contains immunoglobulins, particularly IgA, which play a pivotal role in the mucosal immunity. So IGA binds to pathogens, preventing their attachment to the mucosal surfaces, and it reduces the infamous infection risk. And this mechanism is crucial for patients with weakened mucosal barriers or those exposed to high pathogen lows, such as the respiratory or gastrointestinal tracts. It's activity is influenced by the GGF, beta transforming growth factor, beta cytokine which helps induce IGA class switching in B cells. So think of patients with upper respiratory conditions or GI infections that keep coming back. This will help fortify your mucosal immunity, providing a first line of defense against viruses and bacterial invaders, anti inflammatory and cytokine modulation, also via the NF, kappa B inhibition so lactoferrin and lacto peroxidase, that components have significant anti inflammatory properties, and lactone Ferrin inhibits the NF kappa B pathway, and that's a really key regulator of pro inflammatory cytokines such as TNF alpha and interleukin six and interleukin one beta. And by dampening this pathway, IDP reduces chronic inflammation while maintaining immune vigilance. So inhibition of the NF, kappa B signaling cascade, reduces the transcription of pro inflammatory cytokines and limiting the excess immune responses and help manage the chronic inflammation. It also does anti microbial activity through the lactoferrin and reactive oxygen species reduction. It has broad spectrum antimicrobial properties against bacteria, viruses and fungi. It sequesters iron, as I said before, which is a vital nutrient for microbial growth and disrupts the bacterial biofilms, enhances the body to ability to clear infections and lacto peroxidase actually catalyzes the production of antimicrobial agents which neutralize pathogens directly. So this was a when I came across this IDP. I'm like, hell, this, this. This does so many things and hit so many of the targets of immunosenescence. So we decided we were going to put this into our formulation. It enhances antiviral immunity, primarily through lactoferrins, ability to stimulate interferon type one interferon responses, crucial for combating viral infections. And it interferes with viral replication by binding to viral particles and inhibiting the entry into the cell the host cell. It also so when you have patients who have viral infections or reactivations of Epstein Barr or cytolomegarovirus, this could be a really helpful adjunct for that. It also helps with the gut immune access via the TLR toll, like receptor four pathway and the immunoglobulins and lactoferrin enhance gut barrier integrity by neutralizing the pathogens and modulating il 10, which is an anti inflammatory cytokine that helps regulate immune tolerance in the gut. So leaky gut is a massive problem, and when we get leaky gut, the tight junctions pull apart. This is going to be helpful for and they have clinical studies to show this will give you all the references that it increases the trans epithelial electrical resistance, which means that it helps reconnect those those tight junctions, so to speak. And of course, leaky gut leads to autoimmune diseases, speeding up of the aging of the organs of the brain and so on and so forth. So this is a really major player that I was really

Speaker 1  49:55
pleased to find. So just in summary, on the immune defense protein, it's offering a multi path immune support for patients with chronic infections, inflammation, auto immune, or compromised immunity, by targeting key pathways like the NF kappa B, the TLR and the jack stat signaling system, and regulating cytokines such as TNF alpha, interleukin six and interleukin 10. And it provides a comprehensive approach to immune modulation for practitioners, integrating it into clinical protocols. Now we got that, and we thought, fabulous. We're going to put that in. And then we looked at, what else are we missing in that immunosenescence story that we've been digging into? And we started to think, Well, we still haven't got any growth factors. We still haven't really got all the immunoglobulins covered. We haven't transfer factors, stem cell activation, all of these other aspects. And we came across an ingredient called immunel, and this is a colostrum story, but this is a colostrum extract. But before I get into immune now, just briefly on what colostrum is so colostrum, I'm sure you're all aware, but is the first milk that a mammal produces for its offspring, and nature has evolved us to be the absolute superfood. There's over 12,000 studies on the benefits of colostrum. The problem with colostrum is that we can't standardize it. We don't know where it's come from. We don't know which day it was taken or how much of the bioactives are in there, and then colostrum also has twice the amount of fat and lactose and all the other sort of parts of of a full food that would feed an infant. But the reason why colostrum is so important, and we know that breast fed babies have a much better immune system, much better gut health throughout their lives because they've been exposed to this colostrum. Now, human babies get some immune transfer from the mother through the placenta. Calves, however, do not so bovine colostrum actually has more immunoglobulins because the baby calf is absolutely reliant on the colostrum to survive at all. If it doesn't get the colostrum, it does not survive. And so it helps speed up the maturation and the development of the of the organs and help protect the gut health. So all babies, human babies, are born with a permeable gut, and this is why, you know infant formula is never going to cut a comparison to colostrum and then breast milk. So colostrum is really important for the sealing of those tight junctions that we talked about before that. IDP does this. Does that as well, and so it's a really important thing. But the thing with immune now is it does a whole lot more than that. It supports immune function, gut health, and studies show that it enhances immunity, phagocytosis, natural killer cell activity and immune cell infiltration and enzyme activity, and it leads to a more coordinated immune modulation, so leveraging multiple mechanisms to support various bodily functions and providing comprehensive health benefits. So innate immune defense, intestinal integrity, upper respiratory tract, the actives in it are proline rich peptides, which really helps the thymus do what it should be doing, even when it's older, gives you back some of that younger function of thymus gland stalk, acid and nucleotides and also growth factors. So in the peptide world, you use, you know, IGF one, for people who need tissue repair or to help with healing and so on and so forth. Immune L is full of IGF one, so it's one of them. The important aspects of it that it helps with. One of the other key things that it does is natural killer cell activity, so enhances natural killer cell activity for a rapid immune response. So immune now has been shown to significantly boost natural killer cell activity, and it's essential for the innate immune response and for detecting and destroying destroying virally infected cells and tumor cells. So think of, you know, the cancer rates that are exploding and we've got so much cancer, I don't know. You know, our environment is not what it was, our food's not what it was. Toxins are everywhere, etc, etc. Aging population cancer is going through Duluth, and our natural killer cell activity declines as we get older. So this is one way that we can support prevention and helping people with better natural killer cell activation, both for viruses and for tumor cells, and supports that body's first line of defense, particularly in the immunocompromised patients, it engages with natural killer cell receptors, enhancing their cytotoxic function and improving the body's ability to eliminate infected or abnormal cells. So think of anybody with any of those risk factors. It boosts macrophage activity for phagocytosis. So phagocytosis is when you know the macrophages come along and they eat the bad bacteria, the pathogens, it helps with that enhances that activity, and they play a crucial role in engulfing those pathogens and dead cell and cellular debris, as well as presenting antigens to initiate adaptive immune response. So it stimulates the toll light receptor pathways, particularly TLR two and TLR four, and activates macrophages to increase the clearance of pathogens and enhance immune surveillance.

Speaker 1  55:28
It also does modulate the cytokine balance to manage inflammation. So the MNL influences cytokine signaling, particularly by enhancing the pro production of anti inflammatory cytokines like interleukin 10 and modulating the IL six and tf alpha. And it helps achieve a balanced immune response, because we get this overactive immune response, you know, when we have any sort of insult, we want that initial activation, but we don't want it to be continuing. And as we get older, and as Dr David Furman talks about systemic, chronic inflammation being the COVID the middle of the wheel that's turning and causing all of these downstream age related effects that we see. So this helps with with that, it supports the adaptive adaptive immunity by T cell activation promotes the th one response, boosting production of interferon gamma, which is key to activating macrophages and promoting the clearance of intracellular pathogens, ideal for supporting people with infections or those with long term immune resilience, such as individuals recovering from chronic viral infections or autoimmune flare ups. So we've seen that these two ingredients together really powerful for the gut, for the cell, for the immune health, really, really safe. These two ingredients are pretty much safe for anybody to take because they're a part of the normal reproductive mechanisms, like we have, you know, the colostrum and the IDP, so it's even safe during pregnancy, etc. Now we ticked off the growth factors, the protein rich peptides, the, you know, IGF ones, all the stuff that these two ingredients did. But then we were still looking at what else would actually help with the antioxidant and some of the other things that we wanted to cover off to help with amino senescence. Now, going back to Dr David Furman story with the IH clock, one of the key proteins that they identified as being absolutely crucial was something called CX, CL nine. Now this is a chemokine that plays a crucial role in the immune system by attracting lymphocytes to sites of infection or inflammation, and it's essential for acute immune immune responses. But elevated levels of CX co nine have been associated with detrimental effects, particularly in the context of aging. So what it leads to is cardiac aging, so elevated CX CL nine contributes to adverse cardiac remodeling and poor vascular function, leading to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. It increases the cellular senescence. It's involved in promoting cellular senescence, a state where the cells lose their ability to divide and function properly, contributing to tissue dysfunction and age related diseases and chronic inflammation. Is associated with CX CL nine with systemic, chronic inflammation, a hallmark of aging that underlies many of the conditions. So we were scouring the world for something that would actually lower the CX CL nine in patients, and apart from a couple of drugs, we couldn't really find anything natural that was going to do it until we discovered Cannock acid. So canotic acid is a extract of the rosemary plant. And you would know that the rosemary plant has been used for centuries in different traditional medicines, and it's a specific type of extract taken from the rosemary plants that's really protected for cells from oxidative stress and inflammation and enhances immune function. It neutralizes free radicals, reduces pro inflammatory cytokines, again, the TNF alpha and interleukin six, two of the age related cytokines that we see always elevated in older people, and it boosts the macrophage and natural killer cell activity as well. So there's some overlap there. It's also very neuroprotective, and I actually want to do another whole webinar at some point on the neuroprotection properties of the cannosic acid. And it supports overall health, strengthening the immune system against infections and diseases. So it is a powerful inhibitor of that CXC or not, as we talked about there. And it also upregulates something called the NMF two pathway. This is an endogenous antioxidant pathway that so we don't always want to put in antioxidants, ad nauseam, into our patients, because antioxidants are good and they have their place, but if we put in too many antioxidants, of course, we can stop the signaling. When we up regulate the NRF two pathway, we create our own endogenous antioxidant capacity, which is much more powerful than just putting in our antioxidants singly, so to speak. And of course, we still want those. We still want our vitamin C and E, and you know, one of these things, but this is an endogenous way to do it. Sulforaphane is another one that does this and up regulates the NRF two pathway. So that's another powerful thing that it does. It's also has anti inflammatory properties which balance the immune function. So can also acid inhabits the Cox two and reduces the NF, kappa B activation, and this leads to a decrease in the inflammatory cytokine production. So it's not like an inside, you know, a non steroidal anti inflammatory where it will completely block the Cox two, which we don't really want, because a lot of downstream effects, but this can help with people, you know, dealing with a lot of pain, what don't want to be on NSAIDs, with all their downstream effects, this is something that could be also very beneficial, and it's very anti inflammatory. It has immune monitor modulatory effects for improved immune function. So, in summary, the kenosic acid is a real multi pronged approach at improving immune health, particularly by lowering CX C or nine, a critical marker for chronic inflammation immune dysfunction through its antioxidant, anti inflammatory and immune modulatory properties, and can also help helps reduce oxidative stress and balance the immune responses and protect both the immune and neuro neural cells and age related formation related to client. And when we look at the colostrum, colostrum has like pro inflammatory cytokines in it, as well as the anti inflammatory and of course, we always want that that balance. But by putting in the canotic acid, we sort of help down regulate those and those inflammatory cytokines. Again, cool. I'll take a breath for a second. The last thing that we were looking at is another herbal, and it's this is grown in New Zealand, and it's called Kawakawa in Kawakawa I've known, and I'm actually sitting here with a Kawakawa tea. This is a taonga species of a Maori. So I'm of Maori descent, right? My father was Maori. And this is a native therapeutic that we've used for centuries for gut health disorders and immune disorders and pain related issues. And it comes from the Piper excelsi family, and it supports the immune system through antioxidant and anti microbial properties. It has the actives meristem and Diane gambin and a couple of others and lots of flavonoids in it. And it's a native of New Zealand only, so it's only grown here, and we have the actual the first pharmaceutical grade Kawakawa in our formulation, and this is hitting the pathways, the TNF alpha, interleukin six, those lowering those inflammatory cytokines. Again, it's also affecting chemokines like CCL two, recruiting immune cells to the infection. We lost the recording. Have we are you there still?

Speaker 4  1:03:28
Yeah, that's Oh, that's what it said. I don't know

Speaker 1  1:03:33
what we do. Have we lost? Dr, Bill, oh, here we go. We're back. Okay, so I promise I'm getting, getting, oh, did it drop out? I think we got a couple still.

Bill Clearfield  1:03:55
Yeah, okay, sorry, my internet that, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:03:59
I'm nearly finished anyway. So the Kawakawa was the fourth piece of the puzzle. So we really wanted to take all of these pieces right? We wanted to target all of these different pathways. Do have a really comprehensive way of approaching immunosenescence, and Kawakawa was the last and final thing that we put into it. It supports gut health by soothing the gastrointestinal tract, reduces inflammation and promotes a balanced gut environment. Lowers inflammation in the gut, and protects the intestinal lining from damage and age, in the prevention of leaky gut and improving overall digestive health. And it contributes to better nutrient absorption, as well as a healthy gut barrier. So it also here, does that Cox two pathway as well, just like the kenosic acid does. So we have some overlap between these two, and it also up regulates that NRF two pathway, but it works on it slightly different. It has reduces the intestinal inflammation and promotes gut healing and healthy microbial balance as well. So to who can benefit from this combination, and the reason I've spent, you know, the last two years studying this and working on this was because I really wanted something that was going to hit so many of these hallmarks of aging in one supplement, and hit all the immune, immunosenescence problems that we have in one supplement. Because I was, you know, sick of dealing with 1000 supplements. So this really helps replace a lot of the things, like the probiotics, the prebiotics, the postbiotics, the colostrum, the the lot of the anti inflammatories, a lot of the antioxidants. It has so many pathways and things that it's affecting that if you only have one thing, this would be a good thing to be, to be thinking about. So who can benefit from this? It's like gut dysbiosis. Anyone with gut dysbiosis, food sensitivities. Now, there is a tiny little bit of lactose in the immune but we don't find that anybody who has lactose intolerance reacts to it. And actually, most people find that they become less sensitive to different foods when they're on this because it's helping heal the gut, and that's where the food sensitivities are coming from. Helps with leaky gut, low Secretory IgA, epithelial support for the gastrointestinal, lungs and the blood brain barrier. Helps with immunocompromised individuals. Autoimmune conditions. Helps white down the immune system, low lymphocyte counts. Just anecdotally, I've been fighting for years with mom's lymphocyte count. It got down to point two a few times, and was just really, really low. We know, we know that the neutrophil lymphocyte count is a really important longevity market that we look for, and I could not get her lymphocyte count up after she'd had all the things that she's been through. When I put our product in with mom, in the formulation, her lymphocyte count went to 1.6 after being a max in the last few years, I've never been able to get it over point six. So I was ecstatic about that. I've also seen that in my own immune system, because I always suffer from low lymphocyte counts as well, and it's normalized my lymphocyte count. So that is something that you could have a look at if you're following your patients. And you have this going in, natural killer cell activation, of course, and a balanced immune balance, the th one to th two modulation, it can benefit just about Healthy Aging and Longevity support, so elderly individuals chronic low grade inflammation, Cancer Prevention support, growth factor and immunoglobulin support. It also helps with people who have frequent infections and a slower recovery, and it's antimicrobial, antibacterial and anti inflammatory support. So these are the four ingredients, again, immune defense proteins, immune cow CoA and rosemary extract, and it's going to be helping cellular health, the immune health and the gut health all all in one hit. So basically, that's, that's it. I'll stop sharing the thing. And, you know, just wanted to open the floor for any questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:26
Yeah. Anybody have any questions, can we get this in the in the in the US?

Speaker 1  1:08:34
Yes. So at the moment, if anybody's interested in getting it, and this is not about me selling the product to you. It's just about talking about immunosenescence and some of these incredible ingredients I do think are absolutely powerful. And you know, we're really excited. I will be sharing, of course, all the scientific references and stuff that I've quoted. We can get it through. We have a partner in the States, and it's going to be in the states in about two months time, and before then. So I can connect you either with our partners in the States, or if you wanted to get it now, to try it for yourselves, I'll be giving you a discount code Dr Bill. So I'll send that discount code over here, and you can just go over to my website and and pop in that discount code and get it for half price and try it out for yourselves, because that probably be the best way to just to see if you can notice. And I'd encourage you to, if you you know, looking at microbiome testing or doing blood work to follow things like your calprotectin, your Secretory IgA, your Zonulin, your short chain fatty acids, to see if there's improvements in those markets and in the blood, I looking for lymphocyte counts to be normalizing in some of your immune factors, you know, looking at some of your your typical things that help with the immune system. Yeah. So yes. In short, I can either send it to you directly from from me, and in a couple of months time, it will also be available in the States through longevity launch, who are our partners, and I can send you that info over. But, yeah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:14
Anybody have any questions? Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:10:16
I got a quick question here. I don't know if it's how this is going to play. Lisa, is this something that this product could be possibly used in children whose immune system is developing and yet they're little petri dishes, they get all kinds of infections and stuff?

Speaker 1  1:10:32
Yeah, very good question. So actually, I didn't address that. And I was going to address who it's suitable for, as in, you know who's contraindicated. So the first two ingredients are absolutely safe for anybody. The last two ingredients, there are some reservations with pregnant women. For example, we the rosemary extract. In particular, we don't want high doses now, so we just always err on the side of caution. And pregnancy, obviously, we are bringing out a second product that is just going to have the rejuvenate and the IDP in it, and that will be good for children, and there will be safe for children to take. At the moment, I wouldn't, I wouldn't be putting it in children, and I wouldn't be putting it in in pregnant woman, just because of the rosemary. The rosemary is being known at high, high doses, and that will be much, much higher than what we have to cause uterine contractions. So we just, you know, err on the side of caution there, and it has a very mild blood thinning effect. The cannostic acid, very mild, but still, that's something to be considering. So it could also lower things like your blood pressure. So you may need to come off your blood pressure medications, you know. So there's that sort of effect that could also have. So to answer your question at the moment, Robert, no, but we will have a second product that will be safe, because it will just be the first two ingredients and not the last two, which have got just these couple of, you know, limitations on them.

Speaker 4  1:12:12
Great. Thank you very much. Do we have your website

Speaker 1  1:12:17
listed? Yeah, yeah, it's just Lisa tamati.com and the the dedicated company website is Avon labs, a, e, v, u, M labs. I'll send all the links, and Doctor Bill can share it all, but, yeah, just go to my my website, and I will send out a discount code for you guys to, you know, try. And we'd be really keen to get any feedback from anybody who's, you know, wanting to try it and, you know, test it out for us, and tell us what you think. Because we're, we're always very, very keen to do that. Any other Oh, I did want to just say that the MNL also has milk oligosaccharides in it, and it has beta glucans in it, which are, you know, the powerful parts of mush, a lot of mushrooms. So we were talking about mushrooms before. So beta glucans are polysaccharides that help with immune modulating. They can enhance the activity of the macrophages and natural killer cells. And the milk oligosaccharides that are in the colostrum and the MNL is also really an important thing. So both of those help with the bifid bacteria, and they also help with modulating the immune system and help with the infection risk. It also helps with the stem cell release. You know, stem cells become a hot topic, and colostrum is is known to help with the stem cells and IDP and MNL both both contribute to that story with the IGF one, the TGF beta and the epithelial growth factor that help promote tissue regeneration and stem cell activation. So that was something I forgot to mention.

Speaker 5  1:13:57
Yeah, Lisa, have you used this in any patients with pants or pandas?

Speaker 1  1:14:03
No, I haven't, not yet. We've only had the formulation out on the market for about two months, so we're still in the early days. Separately, these ingredients have all been used, you know, for years, but in the synergy that they are in at the moment. No, I haven't had any clinical experience yet with that particular particular thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:27
Hypothetically, you think it would work?

Speaker 1  1:14:31
Yeah, I do think. I think it'll be very beneficial. And is, you know, as long as they're not on any blood filling medications like warfarin or anything, you know, that's probably the one contraindication from a medical, medical, you know, medicine point of view, yeah, I think it'd be worth trying, because it's going to help with that whole modulating of that immune system. So definitely be worth having.

Speaker 5  1:15:00
Have you noticed that any changes in connective tissue matrix?

Speaker 1  1:15:07
No, not yet. It's early days. We need a whole lot more studies and things done. We haven't looked at it at that, but anything that down regulates all those inflammatory cytokines is probably going to be beneficial for anything joint or cartilage related, would be my take in the the anti inflammatory side of it could be very beneficial.

Speaker 5  1:15:30
So do I understand incorrectly that it just reduces the blood pressure? So patient who have a low blood pressure, this should not be used. It

Speaker 1  1:15:40
modulates. So you just may find that if someone has high blood pressure, they may not need quite as much of their medication. So it won't drop your blood pressure, it won't drop your blood sugars. It won't do any of that, but it's more of a modulatory, you know, adaptive response, rather than pushing it one way or the other, but you may find that you don't need as much of your blood pressure medications if you have high blood pressure.

Speaker 5  1:16:07
The reason I'm asking is some patients have all of this inflammation, chronic systemic inflammation. It's a very good for systemic inflammation. However, some patients in about 50% of the parts patient, those who have partial Orthostatic Tachycardia also have a systemic inflammation. So so it one has to be very sure that it's going to help them and not make them feel worse,

Speaker 1  1:16:43
yeah, yeah, it No, it won't. It won't do anything negative on that side. It won't drop the blood pressure, it would be, it's very beneficial. Also, you know, for that whole adrenal HPA axis, so and with the secretory IgA connection there? No, it shouldn't have any problems with that. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:17:11
immunosenescence means it only works in the elderly or also degenerative diseases.

Speaker 1  1:17:20
Yeah, no, absolutely not. So immunosenescence is a term aging of the immune system, but aging of the immune system happens already in our teenage years. We start to have thymic involution already at the ages of 1314, 15, or if you had immune activation from, say, being exposed to virus after virus after virus or mold exposure, all of these things lead to immunosenescence even when you were young. So we're seeing it younger and younger people and so it it really isn't just about old people, certainly when you get older, all of these things happen more, but it happens also in younger people who have been exposed to mold or lime or any of these sorts of things, their immune system is not, as you know, not not performing like it should do in a younger person. So we're seeing that more and more with the autoimmune diseases coming out younger and younger. So yeah, it's not immunos, in essence, doesn't mean it's necessarily just older people. It's younger people as well who have been exposed to lots of viruses.

Speaker 5  1:18:27
So for how many months one has to take before the you would see the difference, because physician order,

Speaker 1  1:18:37
yeah. So a lot of the studies, and I'll provide you all of the studies and the white papers and so on, but a lot of them are really rapid response, like the clearance of for example, there's studies done on pneumonia and the clearance of the pneumonia within 24 hours, a 70% decrease, you know, like, I can't quote them all off the top of my head, but just trying to find them, I'll see if I can pull them up, increase a

Unknown Speaker  1:19:12
good COVID reasons? Yeah, absolutely,

Speaker 1  1:19:14
after COVID Long COVID patients or people with COVID, this would be it's they've done COVID studies with this, and it clears out the COVID, it clears out the virus much quicker, and it's like twice, twice as fast or trying to pull out the and they've done studies with vaccines, where the flu vaccine, For example, three times more effective than the flu vaccine or another one that they did. Sorry.

Speaker 5  1:19:47
What about vaccine related injury in in a COVID patients? Yeah, it does the same thing. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:19:57
I would definitely be putting that in the in patients like that, yep, do

Speaker 5  1:20:02
some patients, those who get repeatedly sick with the chronic active Epstein by virus infection, having a really positive early antigen in high titers, really try To eradicate it, or it just this temporary suppresses it, or what,

Speaker 1  1:20:23
no it clears. It helps disrupt the biofilms, you know, the biofilms that help hide it from the immune system, so it disrupts that and clears it. So there's, there's been a lot of clinical studies on all of the questions that you're asking. I can't give you the, you know, the exact percentages off the top of my head, but antiviral efficacy, I'm just looking at one moment against. They did a one with a control against lactoferrin, and it was twice as effective as lactoferrin, which was also very effective against the influenza A, the influenza V adenovirus, and SARS, COVID, two virus. So I'm just looking at a graphic now. I can't pull it up because on another screen, but twice as effective as that. Antimicrobial activity against control against lactoferrin was TWO TIMES as effective. IDP has significantly greater efficacy than purified lactoferrin and inhibiting these common pathogens, yeah, so it's just study after study on the individual ingredients. When you put the IDP woods now, then you've really got a powerful, powerful combination, you know, for for these types of people,

Speaker 5  1:21:34
okay, we see the patients with mycotoxicosis, chronic Lyme infection, chronic active epstein barr, mycoplasma infection, chronic active CMV. So what do you think in these patients? You think it is, it starts with also timer is, I mean, all of the X is, what you what you discussed? What is the chicken and what is the egg?

Speaker 1  1:22:00
Oh, that's probably beyond me. I don't know. Can't really answer that. Yeah, sorry, that's a Yeah. When you've got complex cases that are so you're asking, you know which one causes, what

Speaker 5  1:22:19
that time was, must must be also gone, almost malfunctioning. The same way is that they they will have some degree of recurrent cytochrome stones and some sometimes they also have a defective antioxidant, anti inflammatory system, triggering the Cox two and triggering the DNF alpha and and so on so forth, and go down the degree of inflammation. And it just wondered that, how many years does it take for these patients to get better? Even if you put a take them out of the environment and make them better, it just takes it. I mean, in your experience, if you're treating complex patients like we do, how long does it take for you? I mean, we use lot of different modality. I'm not too sure what you use, but if you're using all different formulas, how long does it take for them to get back on Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:23:20
I mean, I find, you know, you, we've only had our formulation, as I said, for for a couple of months out, and we're getting good results. But you know, you've got these complex patients who have tried everything in the under the sun, right? And nothing's working. And, you know, you, you've got, I've got all these super sensitivities, and so on and so forth. And this is, I think, going to be really powerful for that. But I haven't been working clinically with it long enough we know where the all the studies are, but we've only had the product out for about two months, so I haven't got a heck of a lot, apart from, you know, the handful of patients that I've been working with with it, and you know what I'm doing, and, of course, myself and mum to answer that. You know, I'm working with a couple of really complex ones now. I've got them having this at three to four capsules a day. So we usually say from a dosing perspective, maintenance sort of a one cap a day to two caps a day. And then, if you've got someone who's got someone who's got some chronic issues or multi faceted problems, then you know, three, up to four capsules a day, it's going to hit so many of the targets that you're going to need to hit and help to calm down that whole immune activation that over reactivation of the response. So that's where I'm, you know, think that this is going to be really, really powerful for those people, and it is in the clinical studies. We have got the clinical research for it. It's just the we haven't got enough with this combination. We haven't been out on the market enough to have, long enough to have, you know, a lot of case stories, yet,

Speaker 5  1:25:03
that's what I was afraid that if you, if you kill too many pathogens at the same time, are they going to have some degree of power? No, we don't.

Speaker 1  1:25:14
We don't. We don't see any hex armor reactions or anything like that with this, because it's, it's using the body's own systems, without, without, like, coming in and killing, you know, massively, and it's supporting all the probiotics and so on. It's we don't, we don't see, like, with things like sulforaphane, you know, like, I use that a lot in my practice, but I'm actually using it less now that we have this, because I do get that response, I do get that hex armor response. You know, often with people, we won't be seeing that with us. You know, this is going to be a much more modulatory way of helping people without, you know, causing such, you know, reactions and sensitive individuals. So, yeah, I'm going to have to run everybody, because I've got a thank you so much. But if anybody has any questions, you know, feel free to reach out.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:15
Thank you for being with us. Lisa, it was fabulous, and a trek down immune lane. We'll have, we'll have a video ready as soon, as soon as we can, and we'll be sending you to the contact list also, Okay,

Speaker 1  1:26:33
anybody, I'll send you all the data, all the all the links and everything. Dr Bill, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:26:38
do that. CME credits is in the chat. The number tonight is 1075, to the link is always the same, and it's it went to $50 we don't get anything for any of it. So if they did that on their own with it, didn't even tell us about it. So I apologize for you know the price increase, but those of you are taking advantage of it, it's kind of a nice bonus. They're only good for a year, so last August 16 was the first time we got said CME credit, so that one's going to go off tomorrow. So if you and it was Dr Nario, was our first CME, and it was a year ago. So the link is on the on your email that you get every week. So that one's going to go off tomorrow. So if you want to go back and get the two CME credits for that tomorrow, it's gone. So okay, next week, we got Dr Chris melitas again, and I don't have a topic for him, but he's a, he's an immune guy also, you know, we've had him on a couple of times. Then after that, Lisa, you might want to come back in two weeks. We got Jay Campbell and Hunter.

Speaker 1  1:27:43
I love Dr Miletus as well. He's gold as well. And of course, on your show, yes, I have, yeah, yeah, he's he's gold. I want to get that Myos, MD, down here. I've been struggling to get his, that product down here that he's been talking about, because that's gold as well. So

Bill Clearfield  1:28:00
thank you. Thank you so much. And may do you have, like, a spec sheet for your for this?

Speaker 1  1:28:06
Yep, yep, I'll get you all the references and all the I'll also send you the links to the podcast that I've done with Dr David Furman on that ih test, because that might be of interest to you guys, and all the other bits and pieces the discount codes, etc. But, yeah, I really appreciate you some pretty heavy, you know, pathways and stuff so hyper didn't lose you all along the way. It's

Bill Clearfield  1:28:32
very confusing. It was, I don't know if you have time for one more quick question, or you have to really run a question about diabetes and stroke. Somebody asked,

Speaker 1  1:28:42
Oh, okay, so diabetes and stroke, absolutely, yes, there's no, there's no reason not to use it for that. In fact, it will help. You know, with the neuro protection side of of of it would be very helpful. So no, no, no problems there. The only one medication is that warfarin. That's sort of,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:01
like the microbiome, you know, you can't go wrong just going there, you know,

Speaker 1  1:29:06
yeah, and it's, it's very, it's a very gentle, it's a very gentle supplement that's very, you know, safe. And we are bringing out that variation that only has the immune defense proteins and immuno which is completely safe thing for everybody. It's just that Rosemary has that one, you know, one contraindication at very high levels. And so we're being very, very cautious when we say this. But, you know, we'd rather you're on the side of caution with pregnant, pregnant ladies and young children. So, but yeah, otherwise, yeah, it's really a safe and, you know, a good a good product that's going to use the body's own systems, and it's evolved in nature, right? Most of this has evolved from nature, and it's been the way that it's helped protect the cow and helped protect the calf. And you know, when you're using nature's systems, you're not really pushing on one thing too hard, one particular pathway. So, yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:06
so we'll let you go do it. Do, do, do what you need to do. Thank you much so much for being here. Our best to Mom, thank you. Keep us informed.

Speaker 1  1:30:18
I will, I will. And love to you all, and thank you so much for your your lovely attention. I do appreciate it.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:26
Thank you. Okay, okay. Dr Quinn, I know you, you had off last week for the the research group, but what's going on there? Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:30:37
well, we're, we're really gearing up for the West Virginia experience here, I'll call it. It's going to be fantastic, but we're moving forward in so many directions. Like Dr Burgess just said this, this product would be a fantastic thing for us to do some research on through our various groups, which now leads me to a quick bit of information on some of the apothecaries as well as clinics. I say apothecaries because Dr Ben zveny and I are working like mad dogs to set up apothecary type of system all over the country. We have a new person coming in from Florida now. We've got people that have literally dozens of pharmacies that want to be part of our apothecary, which then means that we will be getting our formulary or our Compendium together with new and cutting edge things like like this type of thing. But that also brings us into the educational piece. For anybody who wants it, let's say practitioners go through the apothecaries. They would like some things to to give to their patients, but they need more education on it. We'll probably tie that into Dr tennos system, so we'll be like a one stop shop. You can get cutting edge in new products, participate in any type of research that we have, if you want to collect data on your patients, on some of the things that we do, and then plus get some education on it to help you as well. So I think that's kind of where we are. Dr Burgess, I mean, you can add whatever you need. No,

Speaker 3  1:32:20
I think it's perfect what you're doing, but also with your products within the apothecary. Dr Tano, could make a quick video, yeah, you just have links. We could have you have 100 products, 100 links. Click on the link and it would give you a quick description of that.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:40
Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:32:42
And if you can keep track of the videos, that means Anthony, Daniels school, James and his right? Anthony, Anthony James in Florida, James, I'm sorry I said yeah. I'm always saying Daniels Yes, Anthony James school could use those videos we have, if they watch them, as support for his degrees. And Dr Tanner will probably also be dealing with degrees at some point.

Speaker 4  1:33:12
Yeah, exactly, exactly. So the Saturday group, our mission and our goals are expanding, and we're we're we're kind of on the way to achieving a lot of this.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:25
Yeah, so the the West Virginia experience is that what we're calling it,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:33
it's getting more of an experience than anything else.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:37
First in June, 1 we sent out a we sent out an email. I was it Sunday, John, that went out. Yeah, you'll be getting another one tomorrow morning, 4am Pacific, 7am Eastern. You'll have another one on Friday with all the info, or you can get in touch with Doctor Burgess there at JB, at JB, five com. You're

Speaker 3  1:33:58
going to make sure you put the dates on this next invite, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:34:02
The dates weren't on there. No.

Speaker 3  1:34:09
Check, check my email if you can find it. But the main thing that was missing were the wait. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:17
I left the dates out. Okay, I'll fix it. At least they got the venue Right, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:34:24
Yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:26
Okay, all right, I will. I will fix that before, before it goes out tomorrow morning. So if you're interested in this, you know, we always took nine months to a year to put a conference together. So you guys gave me, gave us four weeks. No problem,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:45
Burgess is a superstar,

Bill Clearfield  1:34:48
so we never did get to the Congress of medical excellence. 5.0 we got so, so we're going to call this the experience one point,

Speaker 3  1:34:58
it's already, it's already a great program, whatever we call it, but I'm up to, I'm up for anything. I'm Mr. Easy. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:35:06
alright. So look, be on the lookout for that. It'll be there in the morning, and I will correct it to make sure that put the dates in. Hey, I got almost everything in there. What do you want from my life?

Unknown Speaker  1:35:21
Right? Good job. Thank you. I

Bill Clearfield  1:35:24
forgot the dates, that's all. Yeah, no big deal. So anybody else have any comments or questions, any events, other events coming up? I know I will be at AMG next weekend, Thursday, the 24th to the 27th at the real national in Miami. And I know a forum is on the on the on the on the coast, at the same time, we're actually planning on meeting up together, if you're, if you're in Florida, for any of those you know, get in touch. I'm doing the first lecture for ammg. I'm doing basic hormone optimization for men. And I'm doing, again, the last lecture for a FFG. And so I always call that the Johnny Castle lecture, nine years running on their last lecture before they close up shop. So if you don't know who Johnny Castle is, look it up. Some of you may. And I think I'm doing, I actually doing the microbiome for that. So that's coming up next week, and then may 8 to the 10th, I'm actually going to be at Dr Shannon burgers, American ozone conference, and I'm doing a longevity there, that longevity talk there. So that's, that's my immediate schedule. Anybody else have any conferences that they're they're at, or anything to report? And, you know, we always need speakers, so don't be shy and let us know. And Dr Quinn, it looks like must have warmed up in Las Vegas because you got yourself, oh yeah, got your summer garbled.

Speaker 4  1:37:06
Well, in the 90s today, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:09
yeah, so it's in the 70s here, so that, you know, so it's actually yeah,

Speaker 4  1:37:14
yeah. And Dr Clearfield, just a quick thing here, one of the things that I'm doing for West Virginia. As you know, you saw the thing is muscle centric health after that, if you'd like, or before that, or whatever. If you want me to do one for this group, I can

Bill Clearfield  1:37:32
sure, as long as I got you on, don't, don't go anywhere. How about looks like July 1.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:44
July 1. Why not?

Bill Clearfield  1:37:47
Okay, there you go, okay, got it

Unknown Speaker  1:37:51
okay, and I got it too. All right,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:55
all right. You're stuck now, okay, all right, everybody, I hope that was informative. There was a lot of information. There she went pretty quickly, and we'll get, we'll get some, some written material. You know about this. So, you know, these are pretty, pretty impressive combinations. The thing that you know, who are our chemists and our, you know, our pharmacists do a lot of these things, you know, mix that they mesh together. That's something I was concerned about. You know, remember Dr, dr Bemer was, was putting together 30 antioxidants and anti inflammatories into one kid, one. He said, You do, it would be four capsules a day. It was, and it was, but it was like one formula. So I don't, did he ever get that off the ground? Anybody know that?

Speaker 4  1:38:45
Yeah, I don't know. He was working with Dr klatz on that, but I haven't heard. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:50
all right. And he kind of disappeared once, once Amex kind of folded. So don't hear, see him very much of him anymore. So I'll ask with Dr halasa, he made Maybe he knows so. Okay, okay, everybody. Thank you so much. I'll have the video up as soon as it's done as soon as it's ready, and we'll see you again next week, same time same station. Let's have Dr. Christmas lead us with us. And, any last words from anybody. Thank you. Okay Thank. you all.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:22
Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai