Bill Clearfield  00:41
Can you hear me? I hear you. Fine. Who's Who's talking.

Unknown Speaker  00:47
There we go. I got you. Oh, it's Joel. Oh, hey. Where are you just getting off? Yeah, cool. All right.

Unknown Speaker  01:18
Hey there, hi, you're muted. Yeah, I muted. Me. Hi, there.

Unknown Speaker  01:25
Hey, how everybody? How's everybody doing this? Happy Tuesday.

Bill Clearfield  01:30
We're doing good. Dr narios is all is all talked out from a 4am he said he can't do the his his usual leak of the week because he's horse. Oh, wow, that's hard. I thought Joel and I are going to report on the endocrinology conference from for a non endocrinologist put on by the north north Nevada endocrinology. What is it? Nevada? Something of endocrinology. Yeah, they can see it was everything. It was everything. It was everything you thought it would be, and and even more,

Unknown Speaker  02:09
I'm sorry I missed it.

Unknown Speaker  02:10
Let me guess. Oh, no,

Unknown Speaker  02:18
can you win them? What was the best part? Oh, the first, the first

Bill Clearfield  02:25
three minutes, I'll tell everybody. I don't, I don't want to spoil the surprise. Alrighty, alrighty, yeah,

Speaker 1  02:33
there must have been at least so the 30 drug manufacturers, they're selling their drugs, we'll just start off with that.

Speaker 2  02:42
Yep, this makes me happy. I'm not in that system. Yeah, no doubt they never go after me. It's great. They've never been on the insurance stuff. I've always been cash. Yeah, exactly, yeah. My father's, I told you, as

Bill Clearfield  03:00
a doctor, test testo boy was there. So the T Lando guy, he sells T Lando. That's it. That's a oral, oral testosterone.

Unknown Speaker  03:19
Oh, that guy, okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:22
he's a, I remember him. He's a nice kid. Yeah, we call him testo boy.

Unknown Speaker  03:29
I'm sure he takes that as a compliment.

Bill Clearfield  03:31
And there's, there's Dr Nario. Give us sing us a couple of hummus, a few bars.

Unknown Speaker  03:36
I don't have a voice. It's done.

Bill Clearfield  03:43
They were, they were they overworked you?

Speaker 3  03:46
Huh, yes, but for four days lecturing, wow.

Unknown Speaker  03:53
So that's, this is what happened.

Bill Clearfield  03:54
Because I thought we I thought we built you up to that.

Unknown Speaker  03:58
I thought I was ready. It seems like I'm not.

Speaker 2  04:02
That means that we can make fun of him and he can't, you know, respond back effectively. Get mad. We make

Bill Clearfield  04:08
fun of him when he can respond back. We don't care.

Speaker 2  04:11
It doesn't be more fun now because he can't, it

Unknown Speaker  04:14
doesn't matter. I get the point of everybody.

Bill Clearfield  04:19
You know that, you know there are acupuncture points that if you came up, came by, and I took care of them for you, you'd be talking fine. Now, right? You do sure,

Speaker 4  04:27
for sure, I'll drive by there. I'll get some of that.

Speaker 1  04:32
And if you're snooting, if you would have used the snoot, I think it would have saved your voice.

Speaker 4  04:39
Thanks for the tip. I'll take a note of that next time.

Bill Clearfield  04:43
Definitely I have, I have two days of speaking, and they have a moderator. So tell me what your secrets are. Dr nariel,

Speaker 4  04:58
to keep, to keep going. I don't think this is a secret. You can see, you just need yourself. You're already kind of, you're the scientist of the year. What else do you need now?

Bill Clearfield  05:10
That's right, and don't you, don't you all forget it. We won't let like, Hey, I took it off the email. I only, I only ran it twice. Come on, you know, I only that's, that's right, I'm sure is Dr Quinn here yet. I'm sure Dr Quinn would have ran it a few more times, right? And you know, Dr Cerna, you know, you know what a bragger Dr Jeno is.

Speaker 4  05:46
Why is your internet slow? Mine? Is it yours? Yeah, it says low bandwidth.

Bill Clearfield  05:58
I'm at home. I don't know. Wow. How do you I'm at home.

Unknown Speaker  06:04
Yeah, you don't see that on the screen?

Unknown Speaker  06:07
Oh, yeah. Now I see it, it's high.

Speaker 1  06:10
I see we had an earth we had an earthquake, and it may have shaken things. And we had the garage, the lights came on. They were all out there, Doc, I don't know what happened.

Bill Clearfield  06:26
Yeah, that's ever since I got the, you know, that I got it, I got a, I got a monthly contract for the garage guy to come by and, you know, make sure the thing works, that lights come on, the doors open now, it's like, you know, it's like, it's like the, you know, it's like, like the, where was it when there was the Rocky Horror Picture showed, I went to it, they ended up at that, that, you know, sort of haunted house, um,

Speaker 2  07:07
Dr Peterson, are you out there in that area where the earthquake was? Are you just commenting on us?

Unknown Speaker  07:15
I'm driving right now. I'm almost home.

Unknown Speaker  07:19
But I mean, are you in that area, like you live in that area?

Bill Clearfield  07:23
Yeah, it was the

Speaker 2  07:30
house shook right, yeah, no, I didn't, that's why I didn't realize he was out there.

Bill Clearfield  07:41
Had some files. So, all right, I hope we're being withholds here,

Speaker 5  07:55
beyond the part of So, okay. Dr Quinn, how are you home? Sweet Home. I'm doing great, absolutely great. How about yourself? Oh, you know me. We're having the time of our life here. Yeah, what have some sort of earthquake?

Bill Clearfield  08:15
Apparently, there was an earthquake around here last night, 5.70

Unknown Speaker  08:21
wow, that's enough to shake, yeah, but

Speaker 2  08:23
it wasn't in Reno it was, No, I think it was like 45 minutes away, or, I guess 45 miles away, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  08:35
I'm not sure. I was at a west coast swing class. I didn't feel a thing

Speaker 5  08:41
good for you. So you must be feeling good.

Bill Clearfield  08:46
Well, you know, change of lifestyle again. So why not? Well, that was, that was, that was one of the bones of contention. I wasn't allowed to go, go out, do my thing, so, oh, now I only have Joel to tell me what I can I can't do. So yeah, I'm sure he's pretty good at that. He is good. Okay, so it's a little after five, dr, narrative. Can I count on you to at least let folks in here? And so I'm going to be doing most of the stuff here. Is that okay? Here we have a link of the week. Well, Dr Nara, a little bit of venue that the A, 4m and he's a little bit, he's a little bit hoarse. So okay, we're gonna, we're gonna skip the leak of the week. So the so I'm gonna tell you, tell everybody so, So Joel and I, and was it somebody, oh, one of my students, who's a ultrasound technician, went to a conference this weekend. It was a Saturday, and it was endocrinology for non endocrinologists, put on by the Nevada and society of Endocrinology, or something like that. I don't have quite half the name, right? And it was everything I hadn't been to, except for Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association, where I really don't pay attention, except when I'm when I'm speaking. It was every It was everything you would you would think we remember as when we were quote, unquote, real doctors. First of all, those of you like Dr Nario, you know, and those of you who do do speaking, you know that we get, we have to sign all these papers saying that, you know, we don't have any conflicts of interest with any companies that have, you know, selling things, especially things that were that we're talking about. Oh, Rafael just came. Rafael was there to Sanchez. He just, he just signed on. He he can, he can sort of vouch for me. I think every there were only, there were 70 people in the house. And I did ask the lady who was the moderator? She didn't really give me a number. I think there were 30 or 40 online. There were 27 vendors for 70 people in the house, you know, compared to what we our vendors. And I found out they charged $2,000 a table. They were all pharmaceutical, Big Pharma or medium Pharma. There was no supplement companies. There was no, you know, there was no Nobody. Nobody was selling ozone. Nobody was selling, you know, nobody was was talking about mitochondrial regurgitate regurgitation. There was none of that stuff every lecture. Even though you're not, I'm not allowed to mention brand names had brand material in the lecture. So, for instance, there was a lecture on technology, diabetes technology, and they showed in the lecture these pretty tall looking insulin pumps. You know, you stick it, you put a thing on, on the on the patient's arm, and it's got, it's a continuous insulin it's a it's a combination continuous insulin monitor and a pump, and it delivers insulin when at a preset level. It was pretty cool. And it was, you know, was an electronic thing, and it was very, very colorful, and all look like a video game. And it was in the lecture. And it was like that every every lecture had the vendors in there. Now, at Dr Nario, as you know, I mean, that's a strict no, no. You know, we're not allowed to do that, and that's the ACCME guidelines.

Bill Clearfield  13:17
And you know, we have to sign all these papers that we're not going to do that. And I've had, I've had my one of my lectures returned to be corrected because I wrote in there, I think it was on thyroid. One of the, one of the medications that will slow thyroid down is, I wrote Dilantin, which is apparently a brand name, even though it's been around for 60 years, instead of fentanyl. And they sent it back. And I said, just change it yourself. What are you bothering me with this for? But you know, it was that, you know it was of that ill. The first lecture was on thyroid. I won't mention the lecturer's name. He was grossly overweight, neither here nor there. He started at eight, 8am at 803, he said this quote, There is no reason to draw a reverse t3 for any reason, the only, only practitioners that that do reverse t3 are those idiots on the internet. Quote, unquote. I wrote it down because I wanted to get it right. So those of you who treat thyroid patients, and those of you listen to my lectures know that we are really high on verse t3 we do it on all the patients all the time, and we use it as a proxy for cortisol, and it is quite helpful. He did say that occasionally he will draw a total t3 and so when we asked him, well, then how do you know what's the usable port? Because a total t3 is free t3 with reverse t3 I just, we just got, kind of got stared at. A little bit later, you've heard, I don't know Stefan one tonight. I don't know we heard. You've heard Stefan and you've those of you might have heard David Brownstein. You know he writes about iodine all the time. Iodine is not necessarily, not necessary, to be used in the United States for any reason. Wow. He's possibly in rural, third world countries only. Yeah, okay. And by the way, that he was originally from Warren, Michigan, which is what known as the goiterrigen belt in the United States, that's where the lowest iodine in the soil is. It has been recorded a lot of the experimentation, you know, with with iodine, and studies have come from from that area, from his area. And the third thing I wanted to bring up, also with with the thyroid, was, don't even think about anything that has to do with diet, quote, unquote, okay. And then if you ask him a question, the especially if we back him into a corner, the answer is, I'm a board certified endocrinologist. It was, it was everything we thought it would be, and a little bit less, okay. And it kind of went kind of, that was, that was kind of, that was kind of, Joe, you were there, right. Yep, right. Did I? Did I get anything wrong there? No, you

Speaker 1  16:29
were totally right. For the new people who came on. There must have been 30 tables there, and they were all selling drugs. It was totally every single one mentioned fasting. They didn't mention exercising Berber nothing, nothing.

Bill Clearfield  16:46
Joel mentioned that. He said, wanted my students, said she wanted to know if they were going to talk about beforehand. I said, we're going to talk about Berberine because there was quite a few lectures on diabetes. I said, if you hear Berberine, that'll be a miracle. So and you did, right? And we did not hear Berberine at all. We didn't hear cinnamon at all. We didn't hear we didn't hear any of that. No, no, yeah. Rafael Sanchez, you were there too. Am I? Am I exaggerating? Did that? Talk about empk that? What? MBK, don't

Speaker 6  17:28
be silly. What is that doesn't happen? Yeah. Dr Clearfield, indeed. I was there present until right around lunch. It was amazing just hearing if you're going to do the three and which form, and if not, and when you just, when you would just stop it and it just, it was a laughing matter between yourself and I when we were talking regarding the presentations. So indeed, there's another piece. The vendors were there until right before lunch. And that $2,000 was pretty much for half a day. And there were people traveling and flying in from, yes, I think Vegas, Colorado, California, and Lord knows where else. So they spend, they invested a lot of money with a small audience that the doctors were all brainwashed from my side, from my lens, in terms of what they do, and it was like there's no solution. There was no forward thinking about a solution. It was just continue to medicate, continue to medicate, continue to medicate, even when they went into the whole liver conversation. Same exact thing ended up happening, where each topic was it the number of individuals that are going to need liver transplant is going to outrun, the number of livers that we will be able to turn around and transplant. And it's like, Guys we need to work at this, look at this from a different lens. So guys on this call, doctors continue to do what you're doing because it's our only hope.

Unknown Speaker  19:07
Amen. Why did they

Speaker 2  19:09
say we were having more liver failure, or they're expecting more

Speaker 1  19:13
the fatty acid, or the fatty liver,

Speaker 2  19:17
so too much sugar, too much bad oils. Did they say why we're broke toes? Well, we know that, I mean, but what did they say?

Bill Clearfield  19:27
Yeah, I don't, I don't recall that they said anything.

Unknown Speaker  19:30
Actually, the doom and gloom of this is where we're going, and

Bill Clearfield  19:35
just go, this is where we are, and there's nothing you can do. And gloom, right? And any, any you, any you out there that have that think otherwise, you're wrong. And, and, and, and we're going to get you, I mean, basically, that's

Speaker 2  19:51
the message here. I don't know. Maybe they're setting us up to take them out of babies or something, you know, grow babies, to get their livers from them to right? Some crazy stuff going on. So that's up to

Unknown Speaker  20:04
make a lot of money. That's all they're doing. Yeah, well, yeah.

Speaker 2  20:10
Well, they get, we get our iodine from, since people are, you know, restricting salt so much, you know, there's so much worrying. Don't put salt. Basically, that was it.

Bill Clearfield  20:25
Iodine is not necessary in the United States period.

Speaker 1  20:29
That's a really old line. And he said there was any. Said there was no. He didn't recommend that you use armor. It's better to use the synthetic stuff live with that rock the armor arm.

Bill Clearfield  20:41
That's right, our armor is t3 is unstable. And, yeah, and don't bother, and don't bother measuring of any, any free T threes.

Speaker 2  20:52
Do you remember the days when the NDT had different levels of t4 and t3 you could tweak it for the patients. Now they've got it all standardized,

Bill Clearfield  21:01
yeah, so

Speaker 2  21:02
you were doing that, then the armor had a different ratio.

Bill Clearfield  21:07
That was NP, so that was the endocrinology of for non endocrinologists in Reno this past weekend. So it was disheartening. It just kind of kind of, you know, kind of reinforces, at least for me, that we're doing the right thing.

Speaker 1  21:26
I didn't think it'd be as bad as what doc said it was going to be, but he was absolutely right.

Bill Clearfield  21:34
Joel started, you know, you know, running down the things we do with thyroid people ahead of time. And I said, you're not going to hear one of the you're not going to hear any of that. That's none of, that's none of that's going to you're not going to hear anything. It's, you know, it, it's the standard. If the TSH is over 10, give them Synthroid. If it's four and a half to 10 and they have symptoms, give them Synthroid. If it's under four and a half they're crazy. Tell them to go home and go see a psychiatrist. Okay, lectures over. That's, that's, that's thyroid. That's their thigh.

Speaker 5  22:02
So question, are those guys, all those speakers, all being paid, right? Oh, yeah, absolutely.

Bill Clearfield  22:11
So, yeah, don't, don't, don't. Don't be too, don't be too, too jealous of them, though you're, you're on the right track. Doctor Quinn Amen and Dr Gerber, if you're thinking of they mentioned anything homeopathic. No, not a chance.

Unknown Speaker  22:32
Didn't even say the word

Bill Clearfield  22:35
Yeah, you're muted there.

Unknown Speaker  22:36
Dr Gerber, it was rough.

Unknown Speaker  22:38
And imagine, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  22:42
alright, I guess it's about time to start our program here. Alright, we have a very special guest tonight, and oh, she's a young she's a young lady. She's, she's agreed to be on with us. She's, she we did a case, I think last August with Kylie, I thought it went quite well. We did another case a few weeks ago. Her name is Emily, she's 20 years old, and she's agreed to be on with us. I told her if she gets nervous, or, you know, gets embarrassed, or if she you know, is any way uncomfortable, to just drop off and but I have a feeling she's going to be pretty, pretty stoic and stout about it, about it all. So I'm going to let her, if that's okay with you. Emily, present, you know her situation. She sent me. You sent me the you sent you sent me that the PowerPoint with your history on it. Can you all see that? Can you see that now? Yeah, it's a Google slide sheet. I have a slide deck also where it's summarized. But what I thought, I thought we would do is let Emily, you know, tell her. Tell you her story. We have all of the these categories broken down pretty specific things that have happened in her life. And then what I'd like to do is have a discussion about, you know, where she's been, what's what's happened to her and and what you all can can contribute to helping, helping us, you know, bring Emily to some some a better standing in a better, a better way of life. So this is, this is Emily's this case. If you're this is Emily over here, and that's, that's her mother. She might is that mom there too? Hi, hi. Okay, so she's a very fine young lady. I don't want anybody to embarrass her. I don't want anybody to, you know, you all behave yourself tonight. Okay? And besides, you remember, after, after we've just trashed the Endocrine Society, we don't want Emily to go out and say, you know, say the same thing.

Unknown Speaker  25:20
You guys do not have to be on your best behavior.

Bill Clearfield  25:23
Yeah, so I want you all to behave tonight. Okay, that's no fun, including, I know it's no fun but, but you know it's no fun when you get caught. So Emily, I'm gonna, I'm gonna give you the floor, and you know, I'll help you along if you get stuck with anything, since you you wrote it in this order. If you want to do that and just go through. We can go through each, each item. I can go, click on, there's your migraine item, okay, okay, you want to do it that way, or any way, any way you like. So, so everybody. This is Emily, she's, she's somehow be, how did you get to be my patient? I don't know. One day you showed up and you were getting, getting exosomes all of a

Speaker 7  26:00
sudden, right? Um, yeah. Works at a CBD store for like, kind of part time, sort of, and she had a customer come in telling her about the stem cells and how he thought that would be a good treatment option for me. And then your name came up.

Speaker 8  26:23
Yeah, he was he said you were willing to do the IV for her, right? So that's how we ended up with you, or you ended up with us. I'm sorry.

Bill Clearfield  26:34
No, it's been okay so far. All right, so why don't you, why don't you? Why don't you start at the beginning? Emily, or, you know where you ever wherever you want to start and let everyone know what, what, what your situation is. Do you

Speaker 8  26:49
want her to start, like, from, like, when her symptoms started happening? Or do you just want to go through the tabs? Or, like, her current issues,

Bill Clearfield  26:55
whatever, whatever she's, whatever, whatever is good for her, whatever she's she's comfortable with.

Speaker 7  26:59
Um, okay, we can start through, like, the tabs, because I feel like that's more organized bill. You want

Bill Clearfield  27:07
to start with the migraines here? Yeah, we

Unknown Speaker  27:08
can start with the migraines. Okay, before

Bill Clearfield  27:11
you do that, can you give us a little bit of a background before any of all this started? I mean, you were, when you were, when you were, you know, young when you were, you know, you're in your five years old, 10 years old. Birth was okay. Mom was there any

Speaker 8  27:24
complications, and she was emergency C section, the her she had her umbilical cord wrapped around her throat and her leg, so every time she moved, she was choking herself. So she was came at 35 weeks, she was fine, though we took her home. Was not in ICU, nothing like that. And other than that, that was, you know, her trying to do early suicide so she didn't have to go through this later in life. That's about the only problem. Five pounds, okay,

Bill Clearfield  27:59
breastfeeding or bottle feeding,

Unknown Speaker  28:01
breast FSHD, both,

Bill Clearfield  28:04
okay, all right. And then when she was alright, she she grew. She grew. I mean, she developed normally, as far as you know, landmarks and all you know, rolling over and

Speaker 8  28:14
walking and all of that, yeah, all that stuff. She was always ahead on the only thing her she wasn't height and weight, but she's still tiny, so I don't think that that was a huge issue. Okay, okay, all

Bill Clearfield  28:30
right, so when did the trouble start?

Speaker 7  28:33
Um, probably when. So I was a competitive cheerleader for, like, years of my life, I started when I was eight years old, and then in 2019 so I was 14 years old, I was at a cheer competition, and I got dropped at the cheer competition, and I landed on like the palm of my hand trying to catch myself. And I ended up breaking my growth plate in my wrist and tearing my triangular fibrocartilage, um, and then when I got surgery for that, that kind of was, like the initial thing that kind of, like, started the trend of, just like every just, like, everything not going right. So then, like, when I had that, like, my body,

Bill Clearfield  29:29
did you say you fractured your thyroid cartilage? Is that what

Speaker 7  29:33
you said my growth my so I fractured my growth plate, and then I tore my TFCC,

Unknown Speaker  29:41
okay, and her wrist

Speaker 7  29:43
and my wrist, yeah, okay, got it, and then I ended up getting surgery for that a couple months after it happened. They casted me for a little bit, and then I got surgery, probably, like, three months after it happened, um, and then after I got the surgery, like it wouldn't heal properly, and I was having scar tissue issues. So like, my scar tissue kept building up in my joints, and they couldn't figure out why it was happening. So then, like, a year after my first surgery, I got a second surgery down at the Shriners Children's Hospital in Sacramento for it, and they basically just, like, took out the scar tissue that developed over the years span since my first surgery in it, and that kind of was like the Start of like, just like my body not functioning properly and everything. And then, like, during that duration between my first surgery, my second surgery, my surgeons made me quit cheer. So I stopped cheering for a year during that period. And then that was the moment where, like, I started complaining about my joints hurting all the time, my knees and like, everything was, like, constantly bruised and everything was swollen.

Speaker 8  31:11
Before that, I used to, like, blame stuff on cheer all the time. Of course, you have a bruise. They're throwing you in the air.

Speaker 7  31:16
She was, I do the criteria for eller stambos And

Speaker 8  31:21
and so so she was always like, always was bruised up, and I always blame God and cheer. But when the surgeon said, if you're well enough to cheer, you're not well enough to have surgery. And so she stopped cheering. And then stuff was still happening. Bruises up and down her legs, her joints would be swollen all the time. And so I was like, Okay, maybe this is something that needs to be looked at a little bit closer. And so, yeah, so she did end up getting diagnosed with Ehlers down lows, like, years later, though, years later wasn't. It wasn't 2019 like, oh,

Speaker 7  31:57
this was, like, a year ago, recent diagnosis. So it was, like, it was pretty recent.

Speaker 8  32:02
It was during the same time that her the fourth tab over the FSHD, her muscular dystrophy was diagnosed. Is when she was Ehlers, danlos diagnosed also, yeah.

Speaker 7  32:14
So anyways, that was, like the trigger

Bill Clearfield  32:16
before, before this injury, she was perfectly well. I mean, she didn't have any joint issues,

Speaker 8  32:25
not that she didn't have them like she's she said she started cheerleading when she was eight. She was actually seven, but she's always been in an ankle brace. She was always in physical therapy. She was always like but it was nothing serious, but there was always something hurting, and I always just assumed it was from cheerleading, and probably was not accurate. So it wasn't that it was horrible. She nothing was ever broke. Nothing was, you know, like she didn't have torn ligaments, nothing like that. That all came later, but she always was in braces, ankle brace, wrist brace, knee brick, something was always not quite healing correctly or Yeah, but I think the big, big trigger, like we noticed it got lots worse was after her fall in 2019

Bill Clearfield  33:24
Okay, Doctor Leonard's got his hand up. Doug, you have a question?

Speaker 9  33:29
Yes. Thank you, Emily. This is fantastic. I really appreciate you doing this. I was just wondering, did you have any little tricks that freaked other kids out when you would bend your wrist or your thumb or your do something, and they

Speaker 7  33:45
get pictures. Yeah, I don't what picture. I don't even know if I have a photo of

Speaker 8  33:50
what like you keep going, I'll find okay. Yeah, I

Speaker 7  33:55
like, I would go to physical therapy, because I've been in physical therapy since I was, like, really little, like, nine or 10 and like, I remember, um, them moving my shoulders and stuff, and all of them would always be really freaked out because, like, my shoulders, like, we're always moving ways that they shouldn't necessarily. And like, even now, my boyfriend gets freaked out because, like, my thumbs move weird ways that apparently are not normal. Yeah, and I don't know what she's showing you. Oh, that was me cheering with my leg behind my okay.

Speaker 9  34:32
But nobody ever talked about the Ehlers prior to that. No, which

Speaker 7  34:38
is really funny, because my mom actually mentioned it to multiple doctors, because she thought that I had it rightfully so, yeah, um, and they told us no multiple times, until like a year ago, when they're like, yeah, no, like, you have this. And then I got tested for, like, the vascular one and all the other genetic ones. And I don't have any of those, so it's just the hypermobile part of it.

Bill Clearfield  35:08
Okay, so these symptoms you have, Emily, I put the Ehlers Danlos tab up. Did you? Did you? Did you have them all along? Or did they develop only after this injury?

Speaker 7  35:24
Or, like, I think, in a way, I kind of had them all along, but like, they weren't really that bad, if that makes

Speaker 8  35:34
sense, they weren't problematic until she broke her wrist, and then it just wasn't healing correctly. She has, like, the weird scarring, and nothing, like girl can get a paper cut. It takes two weeks to heal. Like, stuff just takes forever to heal. It's ridiculous. And then, like I said, she has the weird scarring, so I'm sure she had them. It just, it wasn't problematic until something serious happen.

Speaker 1  36:01
What about vaccinations as a kid? Oh, you

Speaker 8  36:05
name it. She's flipping had it, and now I Okay. Wish she hadn't. She was a volunteering at the VA, and the guy, well, the guy told her at the VA he goes, I have never seen somebody with so many vaccinations before, and I'm like, That's okay, kicking my she did not get covid, just covid vaccine, just so y'all know, I said no to that one. We had to get special things to go to college. But we,

Bill Clearfield  36:35
we have, we have to draw the line somewhere, right?

Unknown Speaker  36:38
Finally, Mom got a little bit smart,

Bill Clearfield  36:41
maybe those of you that used to so I used to, I, you know, I was OBGYN, and then when I switched to family practice, and I still delivered babies, and I took care of the babies we were giving kids, if I remember, 27 vaccines by the age 15 months, the last, the last three or four years. Every six months, there would be two or three new ones would come out that were mandated, and then three months later, half of them were withdrawn because there were issues with it. Finally, I finally, this was in the 80s. Finally, I said, I'm not giving these. I said, I'll give the ones that I got when I was you know that? You know that you know that was studied, took 50 years to develop this. This is the nonsense. And so then they wouldn't let me deliver babies anymore after that. Oops. I guess that was the start of it. Dr Quinn, so you know, if you look at these symptoms, other than the hypermobility that, I mean, this could be pretty much anything, you know, chronic fatigue, bruise, easily, anxiety, depression, chronic pain. It could be almost any, you know, sort of, you know, sort of chronic, chronic issues. So there's nothing specific other than the hypermobility. Correct?

Speaker 10  37:59
Yeah, you i Please interrupt for a second? Bill and thank you, because you mentioned scar on possibly two different occasions. I believe you said you had two surgeries on the wrist. One was screws, the other one was a little more scarring, perhaps. And then you mentioned that you have trouble with scarring, right? Or your scar. Has anyone injected the scar tissue with like lidocaine? And has anybody mentioned to you this specialty called neural therapy, which is how you treat this?

Speaker 7  38:40
I did get injected with lidocaine and my scars, and nobody has mentioned, right? Nobody has mentioned,

Bill Clearfield  38:49
yes, that's what. That's why we're here. Because when you came to me and said, what else can we do, I kind of froze. So I said, Well, I've got, I've got a group of 50. We'll come up with answers for you.

Speaker 10  39:00
So here's the first one. This is something I've spent about 45 years dealing with, and we did the research on that. We have a lot of of us that have shared and that it comes from Germany. But one of but one more thing that they would ask you, if you're in Europe now, is, have you had any issues whatsoever with the tonsillectomy or tonsillitis.

Unknown Speaker  39:25
So I did get my tonsils out

Unknown Speaker  39:29
a in August,

Speaker 7  39:31
in August of this year, 2025, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  39:34
anything, anything get worse or better

Speaker 7  39:37
after that. Um, it got better. I bought them out because I got strep like an absurd amount of times within like five months.

Speaker 10  39:48
So in Germany, you you can if you have tonsillitis or the inflammation and scarring that comes with that, or if you have surgery and the scarring that comes with that, you would always be first of all, before all treatment injected into that tonsil or scar, so that scar can create some, you know, pain syndrome. And I'll give you one really quick example to show you how weird this is, because when I first heard that tonsillitis could cause rheumatoid arthroscopic I thought, gee whiz, I don't get it. But then I dealt with these Germans a lot, and then found out that the Cerna and they learned in the 30s that this was occurring. So tonsils, inflammation, scarring, surgery causes rheumatoid, arthroscopic as weird as it sounds, and then, but what was interesting, I heard on National Public Radio an old surgeon giving the reasons they were doing tonsillectomies initially had nothing to do with sinuses, breathing, that type of thing. The reason they did tonsillectomies in the 30s was because they found out that if they did not, it would develop into rheumatoid arthritis. So in the so in the 30s, Germany found out, and we were doing it here clinically, but there hasn't been much spoken of it. I think there are a few guys in your Are you in Reno? Yeah, you got some serious fine docs there who could probably do that with ease. It's not It's painless. You can do it, go in, hit the tonsils and see if you get better, because the results are usually immediate. Interesting, if in two minutes, your scar tissue goes down, or I'm sorry, your pain goes down, then that's proof that you have what's called an interference field. And that's enough said about that. Bill knows all about this stuff too.

Speaker 8  42:02
So it's lidocaine in her tonsils, in her tonsil scars. Now, since she doesn't have tonsils,

Speaker 10  42:13
yeah, the scar Yes, and probably it wouldn't hurt to use the 30 gage to go in the scars in the wrist you were talking about earlier as well. Because I don't you can do it to see if it gets better immediately or not. If you see the immediate reduction by 50% within, like, 30 seconds, one minute, then you know it's involved. And then you could do a few repeated injections, and that cures it forever. So it's not like you have to go crazy on the scars forever in five times it's 90% cured for life. So that's usually the standard,

Bill Clearfield  42:53
although we can't promise anything.

Speaker 10  42:57
That's what our that's what our research showed. Our research was to inject C section scars and hysterectomy scars. And we did that approximately five times, once a week, for for three to five times. And Dr Gerber's here. He's the master in your area that go ahead. Dr Gerber,

Unknown Speaker  43:18
he's in, he's in Dr Martinez office.

Speaker 10  43:23
Yeah. Anyway, that's that was a result of our injection that if you did it about five times, it would last you 90% for life.

Speaker 7  43:35
Interesting, yeah. Hey, you look into that. You got that.

Bill Clearfield  43:40
That's that's why, that's why we're that's why we're here, Emily, because we're gonna get, I'm gonna get, we're gonna get ideas that I hadn't even thought of perfectly. I'd send you to Dr Burgess, but he's in West Virginia,

Speaker 10  43:52
so Dr Gerber has everything covered. Right, right there.

Unknown Speaker  43:58
Perfect, wonderful.

Bill Clearfield  44:00
We'll get you taken care of. Okay. Okay, so the

Speaker 11  44:06
other thing, oop, yeah, go ahead. The other thing, if we can add it to our checklist, is her microvascular health because of her lipid like exposure to lipid and valid viruses, covid came around 2019 whether you're vaccinated or not, it destructs the endothelial lining of our vessels, our micro vessels. And there's a test for that, but you can, like prophylactically, already start Fucoidan or hyponical laminaris, and then additionally stromal vascular fraction, which we take from fat and then separate it with Collagenase and give it intravenously through 170 nanometer blood filter helps with inflammation, and we can send part of that off for replication in a lab, so you can have a repetition of it, or repeated.

Bill Clearfield  44:50
What was the what was the test? Again, that you mentioned, glyco

Speaker 11  44:54
check is the test. I actually have it. I have the device. You don't have to get the device, but we can see your inflammatory scores with that, and then we recheck it after you start several supplements of a brown algae. It helps also prevent against clotting. It helps with the lining stability and helps with inflammation, specifically Neuroimmune, in autoimmune conditions. And then additionally, there's a procedure called, used to be the self surgical network. It's not that name anymore. I have the device sitting in my office happily. I would ship it to wherever and teach somebody how to use it, because I can't use it in Georgia, yeah. But we basically, I'll send you all that. I'll send

Bill Clearfield  45:42
you, send me a picture of it, or,

Speaker 11  45:45
yeah, but the other thing is, you can just take a five ml biopsy of adipose, and first degree relatives can use it also, but they can replicate it in the lab at l2 bio, and you can have it on call, because we age every day, so it needs to be repeated more than once, and so it helps with inflammation. Yeah, I would love to help you. Interesting. I have rheumatoid arthritis, and so I went down that whole lane. And don't worry, I

Speaker 7  46:16
have a whole auto beam section coming up, so don't even

Speaker 11  46:22
want when he was talking about, you know, it's interesting hearing about the tonsils, because I had a tonsil like to me when I was younger, and I still got rheumatoid arthritis. So it's interesting, though he's brilliant about his lidocaine injections. I mean, that man is one of the most brilliant men. So definitely make sure you follow up with him.

Unknown Speaker  46:38
Okay, perfect. I definitely will

Speaker 8  46:41
if you since you guys are talking about autoimmune stuff, underneath her lab tab, it talks about like her Ana, at the very top of it, it has like her Ana, which, yes, which, Yes, which, we know it doesn't diagnose anything.

Speaker 7  47:01
However, I have been told by the Stanford rheumatologist that my Ana is so high to the point that's not a matter of if I get an autoimmune disease, it's just a matter of when. So I have that to look forward to,

Speaker 8  47:17
and so we and it keeps nothing keeps coming back. So it's weird, I

Speaker 7  47:22
also have multiple patterns of my Ana, because why wouldn't I? So they say, like,

Speaker 8  47:34
every time she gets tested, it's like, oh, she doesn't have lupus, oh, she doesn't have this. Oh, she I

Speaker 7  47:38
would also like to add my mother here has lupus, so

Bill Clearfield  47:48
you know, sooner or later, you're gonna get blamed for this mom.

Unknown Speaker  47:50
So she already is, I give

Unknown Speaker  47:53
they don't want to be here.

Speaker 7  47:56
Um, yeah, so she over here does, in fact, have lupus, and

Unknown Speaker  48:02
my issue comes from my side of the family. Dad is healthy.

Speaker 7  48:07
I also have, what's that thing where your hands and your feet turn super purple? Yeah, I have that, like, really badly. So I do have that. I think that's the only auto main thing that's actually presented itself, though, but, yeah, I just have, like, a really high Ana. Not really sure why.

Bill Clearfield  48:32
Okay, but we have, when I'm looking here, you have urinary calciums are low. Oxalates are low. I don't think that's a bad thing. Sodium is low. So, so all of your sort of, you know, chemistries are, are, you know, running, running, running off, even vitamin D, it looks like we, we made a little bit of progress, huh?

Speaker 7  48:55
That's there. We definitely did make a little bit of progress. My vitamin what was it? B, D, vitamin D, yeah,

Speaker 8  49:07
that's the first time it's been ATFL in years. So good job.

Unknown Speaker  49:10
Did we talk about her diet? Yeah. Well, okay, let's talk

Speaker 7  49:17
about it, vascular my diet, um, mostly meat. Um, your whole life, yeah, right, my whole life, yeah, and

Speaker 8  49:31
and fruit, fruit, not very many vegetables. Not a veggie girl at all, okay,

Speaker 7  49:36
yeah, I don't like vegetables. Um, I don't really drink anything but water or milk. Um, I drink a lot of water. It's like my main thing I drink, um, that's really in all honesty, yeah,

Speaker 1  49:57
have you been admitted to the hospital? A lot, a lot or quite a bit.

Unknown Speaker  50:04
Yes, what was the question? I'm sorry,

Unknown Speaker  50:07
has you been admitted to the hospital? And I wouldn't say, a

Speaker 8  50:10
lot, no, a few, a few times for different things, like

Unknown Speaker  50:16
admitted a few times when I was younger, okay,

Speaker 1  50:19
you went in, did they usually put you on IVs? And if they did, what were the IVs?

Speaker 8  50:27
Yes, IVs. Usually it was. They would say, like for hydration, and then she's had a

Speaker 7  50:36
nausea they only give me nausea medicine and my IVs, right, right?

Speaker 8  50:42
A lot of times when she goes in, it's for pain. That's the majority. Like when she was little, little, she was really sick and throwing up, but I don't know, they said she had a virus and it went away. But other than that, then, no, she doesn't. We don't usually do hospital much. That's okay, good. Um,

Unknown Speaker  51:08
what else about my diet? I don't

Speaker 8  51:11
really know. He doesn't like to eat much. He's gotten a lot better, but she's never been really a big eater, kind of picky, and not large quantities. So, I mean, she's 90 pounds on a good day.

Speaker 7  51:28
Wow. Okay, I'm also like five foot, so can we add that in there to offset the fact that

Speaker 8  51:35
90 pounds? Okay, so she's short and small. Thank you. Zomig, awesome.

Bill Clearfield  51:42
Does anybody have any, any comments about any of the, any of the labs that we're looking at here on the screen?

Speaker 11  51:50
Nothing on the screen. But we were commenting on the in the chat about, you know, epigenetic genetic analysis with snips, histones, things like that. I actually can do that out of my office. They send you a, you know, just little buckle swab. Think the test is 299, and I wouldn't charge an interpretation fee. It would be a blessing to help.

Speaker 2  52:10
I have a question, do we have a ferritin level on her? Iron level on her? Yes, on PV. Do I miss it? We should.

Unknown Speaker  52:21
It is not on my labs.

Unknown Speaker  52:24
What's the thyroid function? Like any thyroid autoimmune I had

Speaker 7  52:29
a thyroid problem when I was younger. It supposedly, they said it fixed itself.

Speaker 8  52:37
Clearfield ran all of her thyroid stuff, and I thought it looked pretty good.

Speaker 7  52:41
Yeah, you did rub my thyroid high or low on the thigh. It was high, like, really high.

Bill Clearfield  52:49
You mean, the TFC, is it okay if I bring it up? Emily, yeah,

Speaker 8  52:53
you can bring it up. Yes, please. And also, you did ferritin, fair ferrine, Berberine, Berberine, so I think that one should be on your list, also highly, faster than me trying to log in. Maybe I

Speaker 7  53:06
don't remember what my thyroid was when I had the issue. I just remember I was really high,

Unknown Speaker  53:12
like your TSH was high, or your thyroid function was high, like heart racing, and

Speaker 7  53:18
I actually didn't have really any symptoms. Like, I the only thing that I could, like, tell you that I had symptoms of, I was really tired, and, okay, so the TFCC was high. Yeah, I was super tired. And they're like, I can't believe that you're functioning like this and like that. You're even able to, like, stay awake. And that's the only thing I really remember from it. You were, you were, you were hypothyroid. Then, yeah, and then it disappeared. I don't know it YYYY.

Unknown Speaker  53:49
She's got an MTHFR

Bill Clearfield  53:53
here, and she's got a positive MTHFR.

Speaker 2  53:55
Yeah, I'm trying to see which 118, to 12.

Speaker 12  53:59
BC, I had a case just like this. I had a young girl. She was 16, and she also had all these symptoms. She had lupus, positive Ana, chronic fatigue, from low thyroid function. She tried all these things, and I'll tell you what. The only thing that actually worked was 50 milligrams of IUD overall, and she's still on it to this day, and it's been the best thing for her joint pain.

Bill Clearfield  54:23
That Stefan, yeah, you were mentioned you were mentioned earlier. I think you were on yet. So No,

Unknown Speaker  54:32
yeah, I would say 50 milligrams of IUD overall.

Bill Clearfield  54:39
So, yeah, so Okay, so we're glucose fasting. Glucose was 109, hemoglobin a, 1c, 5.7

Unknown Speaker  54:49
TSH is two. TSH was 1.973

Bill Clearfield  54:54
t3, 3.6 the dreaded reverse t3 was 15.

Unknown Speaker  55:01
No antibodies against your

Bill Clearfield  55:02
THYROGLOBULIN were normal. IGF one was 285, MCV, 88.7 HEMATOCRIT, 38.4 which is normal. But on the low end,

Unknown Speaker  55:18
there's a 25 ferritin there.

Bill Clearfield  55:20
FERRITIN was 25 Yeah, it's the same thing. What do you mean? So, okay, so there's the FERRITIN 25 urine iron. Yeah, that's iron store, I know, but

Speaker 2  55:35
if there's a separate iron, but that could be that could

Bill Clearfield  55:38
really help her. Yeah, and insulin was 25 okay? And vitamin D was 25 I don't think, I don't think I get a had a separate iron, but we'll get that.

Speaker 13  55:51
Okay, Has anybody tried a low dose and Alc song, particularly for Raynaud's,

Bill Clearfield  55:59
that's the other reason you came to me, right?

Speaker 7  56:01
I did. I You put me on it the 4.5

Bill Clearfield  56:06
Yeah, 4.5 and it's been, what, a couple of months Correct? I want to say

Speaker 7  56:15
a month and a half, two months,

Bill Clearfield  56:22
January, 22 is when we ordered it.

Speaker 14  56:26
Did you use a PREGNENOLONE 400 milligrams like you like for her, Amy

Unknown Speaker  56:36
PREGNENOLONE, are you gonna?

Speaker 14  56:39
Oh, I'm sorry, what? What was it called 400 milligrams of PREGNENOLONE, one of Dr Clearfield's secrets,

Bill Clearfield  56:47
that's right, yeah, the problem with that, Carol is she's got a, she's got a PREGNENOLONE level of 437 to begin with. Yeah, she's

Speaker 14  56:55
no kidding. It's and what was total cholesterol? I

Speaker 14  57:06
Where the heck is it? So then, is she not converting down to progesterone?

Speaker 2  57:13
Apparently, not. So that might be virgin is 25 okay, lipid panel up

Bill Clearfield  57:24
175 her TESTOSTRONE Was 35 that's good. And free was 6.4 her cholesterol was 175 LDL was 80.

Speaker 2  57:39
Does she have any positive inflammatory markers? Because her HS, CRP 's real low, FERRITIN 's low. Is there any evidence of inflammation beside

Speaker 8  57:55
no the marker, the markers show up negative, every single normal, every single time

Unknown Speaker  58:01
I imagine her DHEA was low. 243, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 11  58:09
They do IGF. Did they do? Did they start from HPA?

Unknown Speaker  58:13
They had it there.

Speaker 11  58:18
Okay. Did they do FSH? PG, which one is that sex?

Bill Clearfield  58:30
Homogenous GLOBULIN, yeah, that was, come on. You know, guys know I did that. I it. You know, I wouldn't do, do any of the androgens without that. Let me find, I think it was 64

Speaker 12  58:51
what you could do. So in my patient with the lupus, what I did is the iodine challenge test. Say we did 50 milligrams of IUD overall, and then we did the challenge. We found out that she had fluoride toxicity and she also had bromism. And so bromism will also cause chronic joint pain, and so once we put her on the 15 milligrams of THYROGLOBULIN, she started detoxing, and she felt the best ever. Wow. Okay,

Speaker 14  59:19
how are your cycles? Your menstrual cycle?

Speaker 7  59:22
I haven't had, I have an IUD, so I haven't had an actual menstrual cycle in like a hot minute. Yeah, a few years.

Unknown Speaker  59:30
Okay, and gear the marina, or

Unknown Speaker  59:32
copper Marina,

Speaker 14  59:34
get that baby out. And why? Why did you start it for birth control, or birth control?

Speaker 7  59:41
I used to be on the pill, and then I got the arm implant. The next, next, whatever it's called, the one that goes in your arm, hated it. So then I got

Bill Clearfield  59:56
sex hormone binding. GLOBULIN was 20, which is a little low, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:05
But her testosterone TESTOSTRONE was 35

Speaker 11  1:00:11
but her whole, her whole axis seems like it's and

Speaker 14  1:00:19
she's going to have a lot of progesterone deficiency going on here, and you have crawling it off

Speaker 12  1:00:26
of that. I have no ad mana, CHOL, yeah, the Estradiol is probably low, and so that's going to cause joint pain, because those contraceptives, they reduce the Estradiol and progesterone.

Speaker 8  1:00:39
Yeah, she's never had mono. She doesn't have she was tested for the bar. That virus came back negative.

Speaker 12  1:00:51
We need to address the basics here, and it's hormone optimization first. So if we're on the contraceptive, we're gonna have low hormones. They're joint protective. Yeah, and

Speaker 14  1:01:04
why do you think her PREGNENOLONE was so high without taking it

Unknown Speaker  1:01:09
she's 20.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:10
Yeah, young people can have high PREGNENOLONE.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:14
I didn't hear what you said.

Speaker 12  1:01:17
They can have high PREGNENOLONE. So they can have it upwards of 200 when they're young, okay, but hers was 400 Yeah, she's at 437 higher than usual. Does she have any Estradiol or

Speaker 14  1:01:30
progesterone or no. There's a progesterone number on here some places. But could it be some sort of barrier to making progessome from PREGNENOLONE, yes. And then she's, she's blocking her progessome with the coil,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:52
with the IUD, yeah, correct

Unknown Speaker  1:01:55
with the progessins. So that's putting her out.

Speaker 14  1:02:00
Also, she has a little bit of a PCOS picture with insulin glucose issues.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:07
You're on insulin.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:10
No, she has high insulin. We gave her, yeah, we gave her, you know, short acting insulin. Her fasting blood sugar was one nine. It was a spiking to 280 so let's go, oh, wow,

Speaker 8  1:02:21
she's, she's not taking the insulin, though. We're just kind of holding off. We haven't started yet, that yet

Bill Clearfield  1:02:28
that you can see the hematocritin, a one CS here. We're getting a little better, there, aren't we? Mom.

Speaker 8  1:02:34
So, yeah, her, her monitor, though, says it's gonna, what's your monitor say it's supposed to come out to right now. Your a 1c

Speaker 7  1:02:43
my a 1c on my projected monitors like 6.3 right now.

Speaker 8  1:02:51
So obviously it's not, it's not as accurate as going getting a blood test.

Speaker 11  1:02:57
Do you have episodes of severe hypoglycemia? Yes, I do. It seemed like your A & is better than it really is, evening out with your numbers.

Speaker 7  1:03:06
Okay, I do have issues. And I also was just responding to this. I have got an MRI of my brain.

Speaker 8  1:03:14
Um, it's under the tab that says tests on the Yeah, it

Speaker 7  1:03:18
came back normal. Supposedly, I don't really know, because I'm having a weird issue with my upper neuron issues where I have a sustained clonis and only my right ankle. So I have gotten MRIs of my brain, cervical, thoracic and lumbar. So those results are in the test tab of the sheet. And I also have not had long covid that I know of like I've never had any symptoms of covid. Have never tested positive. I have not been checked for Lyme disease,

Speaker 11  1:04:04
and my worst chiropractor to, like, for adjustments any recently. And does it affect anything because your vagal nerve, like, I'm thinking, like, you know, I do go to a chiropractor.

Speaker 7  1:04:14
I go every probably, like once a month, like once every three weeks, maybe, um, it helps me for like, short period of time. Like, it's not really a prolonged thing. And then my worst symptom right now is, like, probably my migraines. Honestly, my migraines are really bad, like, debilitating, bad, and my chronic fatigue is just like, I don't know, I'm just tired 24/7 like, I don't want to do anything. I can't function.

Speaker 2  1:04:46
Like, have you figured out any of your triggers for your migraines?

Speaker 7  1:04:50
It's like a 24/7 thing. Like, I go to sleep with the migraine. I wake up with the migraine. There's only, like, periods of the day where it gets worse. So it gets worse later in the evenings, and that's basically it, but like, I literally go to sleep with it, and I wake up with it, and it's been that way for

Speaker 2  1:05:12
21 and arena. For how long have you had the Marina for?

Bill Clearfield  1:05:18
Yeah, since 2023

Speaker 2  1:05:21
i and to get better or worse, at the Mirena, if you remember, nothing

Unknown Speaker  1:05:26
unchanged, no change, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:05:31
yeah, I would. I don't know if you have a progesterone level, but that sounds to me like a potential progessound deficiency, if it's all of the time, and even if she's on a progessin via the Mirena, she may benefit from a low dose, probably oral progesterone,

Speaker 14  1:05:53
or even a higher dose, usually for for a headache, what I recommend is DOB, sing progesterone, best if it's topical on the neck and on the temples,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:05
but I would say in order,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:09
every 15 minutes till the headache is relieved.

Speaker 11  1:06:13
But for acute, just for because I used to work in reproductive endocrinology and est cos center, and it's interesting, we would do day three labs on your cycle, but you had to be off birth control, or had to be off any type of credit ve your IUD taken out. You wait 30 day period, and then the third day of active bleeding was when you would get the test done, and then day 21 progesterone,

Speaker 2  1:06:37
yeah, but you can still be on progesso urine and have the Mirena. And you know, instead of, like, the topical stuff is harder to control. I mean, if you know, if the low dose oral progesterone every day doesn't help her, I mean, she could use the rapidly dissolving tablets, I know.

Speaker 11  1:06:54
I'm just saying, if we wanted to lab, like we wanted our True, true labs. You know what I'm saying? I think it's affected, like, first things first, take out, take out the IED. Wait, then do labs, if you want to do a clean slate, and then you could have say, like, Okay, I feel great when I had it. I don't hear and so it gives you a baseline of what she feels. I almost kind of kept an obvious

Speaker 2  1:07:13
but, but she said she had the migraines prior to the IED,

Speaker 14  1:07:17
but she's probably been progesterone deficient for a long time I agree.

Speaker 7  1:07:21
I agree. And then also, somebody asked if I've ever been diagnosed with pots. I have not. However, that was a huge thing that my mom wanted to look into. Because my mom, for a really long time, and maybe still does, do you still do question?

Speaker 8  1:07:39
No, I've done some more research on it. I don't know if she does have that. She has some stuff where she's, you know, lightheaded, that kind of stuff. But I almost think it might be more sugar, the glucose related versus the pots related.

Speaker 7  1:07:59
Answer, no, I have not been diagnosed with bots.

Speaker 14  1:08:04
So could the hyper motility be tied into low thyroid?

Speaker 7  1:08:10
My migraines were diagnosed as migraines, not that that was diagnosed correctly, but that is what they were diagnosed as ages ago, and I have tried, like a million different things for them, and the only thing that has helped me, kind of so far, has been nerve blocks in my nerves in my neck.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:39
Have you used progesterone?

Speaker 7  1:08:40
No? No. Okay, um, she said, I have gone steroid shots.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:47
What's our dose? Carol, is it 100 or Yeah,

Speaker 14  1:08:51
like 50 to 100 milligrams every 15 minutes. And really best with the headache, that's with that with the headache, there's also you could check into Dr. Jeff Baker has a sub stack on natural treatments for migraines, if you wanted to look into much more.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:09
Okay, how about a progesterone cream?

Speaker 14  1:09:14
Yeah, cream or, like, quick silver serum is nice. I like the idea of Sublingual, progessy kind of thing, because you get a good blood level quickly with it. Any anything that will bring your progess from up quickly.

Speaker 8  1:09:31
I can tell you that the kid will not do Sublingual. It's going to taste bad and it will not

Speaker 14  1:09:37
it will taste bad, so you're better off with cream, I think, or quick silver 's progess from serum,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:43
okay, and so, I mean, my, my usual is, I just have them use a thin ' ' mat on their temples, in the back of their neck. Yeah, that usually seems to do the trick. I every 15 minutes I not done it that way?

Speaker 14  1:10:01
Yeah, usually it doesn't take that long, maybe two or three times, and it's done okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:07
Usually, I we've had pretty good success with it, you know, the first time. Now, so and we'll do the art the battlefield acupuncture. Also. We'll put the little, tiny gold needles in the in their ears, and then they go home with them

Unknown Speaker  1:10:21
works real good, and

Bill Clearfield  1:10:23
that seems to work out pretty well to the thing problem is, is that this is a continuous, you know. So it's not like it's a one time deal, or the migraines come back every, you know, with their cycle or, you know, so we have to do something that's sort of sustainable for

Speaker 14  1:10:45
also, also she's she's going to have trouble with adrenaline, with her insulin glucose instability, and then if she has methylation defects, it's going to be harder to detox it. So some anxiety from that, maybe difficulty in sleeping.

Speaker 8  1:11:05
She has difficulty sleeping. Has for years who's been once she gets to sleep, she will stay asleep and sleep 15 hours, if I you know if she can. But going to sleep is always an issue. And when she wakes up after her 15 hours, she's exhausted. And I thought I would, I used to tell her, it's because you're sleeping too much. And one of the doctors, one of the Stanford neurologists, is like, that's not the reason there's something else going on, but hypoglycemia. Make sure nobody else can figure out what the hell is going on.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:42
Do you have any you have any experience Carol with the synthetic allopregnine?

Speaker 14  1:11:49
No, none. But that that could do, do some good. Weren't they coming up with an oral one instead of just the IV? Have you tried it yet? It yet? Oral, Alc, PREGNENOLONE.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:06
It actually was FDA approved in 2023 the problem with it is that one of the side effects is sudden loss of consciousness. Wow, yeah. So it was originally only approved for postpartum depression, and it was an IV, 60 hour continuous infusion. And there were certain centers around the country that were designated to use that the closest one here was UC Davis. The oral form was approved in 2023 and it so I tried to find out was that the issue was, again, sudden loss of consciousness, which is not a good thing if you like you're driving, that would be bad, you know. But what they did was they put a black box warning on it, saying that if you take this kid, you can't operate machinery for hours after you know, using this it is, it's an FDA approved medication. I was just wondering if you had any experience with it.

Speaker 14  1:13:13
So no. But if all PREGNENOLONE 's getting too high, which might be the case with this, it indicates you took toxification with the sulfur pathway and glucuronidation is not happening. So good. You might see that from doing some genetic study too. So if that's coming, you can, you can reverse a lot of that allopregninol and stuff pretty quickly.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:44
So she's got the 12 was it the 1295 MTHFR positive? The 1298 with the 12 one, not the other one. That's that's positive. And what else did I want to say? Oh, g6 PD was normal. Okay, so, and you can see I have on the screen here, her blood sugars, and you can see that the hematocritin, a 1c, 's were coming down until March and now. But you're telling us the continuous monitor is higher, right than when you get the serum levels right. And we did get at one point an insulin level of 25 which was kind of high fasting insulin level. So, so I'm assuming you don't have any blood sugars after March 11, but you have that continuous monitor. I'm assuming that you're so what do you do? You never, you never did use it. So we gave you the short acting insulin.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:54
Yeah, I have the insulin my mom. No, my mom said to wait.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:00
So it's sitting in the frigerator, in

Unknown Speaker  1:15:03
our refrigerator.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:04
Okay, does everyone think we should use it?

Bill Clearfield  1:15:09
Any, any, any, any takers for short acting insulin?

Speaker 2  1:15:13
No, because she's got hyperinsulinemia, and I think that that's why she's getting the reactive hypoglycemia.

Speaker 7  1:15:19
Yeah, it goes up really high, and it goes down low, and then it it just it doesn't know what it's doing.

Speaker 2  1:15:30
I would think a ketogenic diet, or at least a low Lycee MCHC index diet, would help her a great deal. Is there anybody in town who can help help her with that, a dietitian that is tuned into that, I'm sure

Bill Clearfield  1:15:45
we can find somebody.

Speaker 10  1:15:47
Do you think we could find somebody who could do the head blocks? Emily mentioned that the injections in the next help helped. They may have been using it with lidocaine plus steroids you can do it without the steroids to make it safe and easy for the head and the places that would usually be hit to see if it knocks your migraine out, because it's a stability thing, right? Too tight, too loose, too tight, too loose, and then you kind of lose control. So to give it the constancy of a normal thing that doesn't overwork it, the injections would be and Bill, you can tell me, and Dr Gerber, if you do it, occipital blocks with just lidocaine and Spearmint Palatine, if you guys want to get heavy on the kind of headache she's talking about, because it sounds Severe to me.

Speaker 3  1:16:39
Yeah, it is severe at

Bill Clearfield  1:16:45
the the stem cell people, they're big on those phenytoin Palatine injections, and they were teaching me how to do it, but I'm not ready to

Unknown Speaker  1:16:56
you need to know what you're doing. You can go, Yeah, we were we.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:59
We were working on, we were working on kid average. So I'm not ready for it, at

Speaker 11  1:17:05
least personally wrath. So it should be following the flavor response. You don't necessarily have to put it intrathecally or anything like that.

Speaker 2  1:17:14
Her migraines, since she doesn't have eat vegetables her whole life, she's almost certainly deficient in magnesium.

Speaker 7  1:17:23
I do take magnesium

Unknown Speaker  1:17:27
supplements. Does it help?

Speaker 7  1:17:32
Which magnesium? What magnesium did I take? Mother, she's pulling it out of the drawer right now. Yeah, there's like nine different kinds, right? Oxalate, come bring it over here.

Speaker 2  1:17:47
Yeah, you gotta read the label to see how much magnesium 's actually in it.

Speaker 10  1:17:51
Hey, I'm sorry, but I was just going to say because it's an educational thing, citrate.

Speaker 8  1:17:59
This one, yes, magnesium citrate.

Speaker 2  1:18:03
Can you see? Is it in parentheses? Is anything into parentheses or DOB? Does this say magnesium?

Speaker 8  1:18:09
Oh, there is no parentheses, because it's a DR Clearfield one

Speaker 2  1:18:15
citrate is in citrates in parentheses. Yeah, correct. Okay. And then what's the dose?

Speaker 8  1:18:21
100 milligrams. And then I was giving her this one that is just magnesium oxide, which was 500 milligrams. Is it

Unknown Speaker  1:18:32
also in a parentheses?

Speaker 14  1:18:34
Correct? The oxide isn't going to be absorbed as well. Is there

Unknown Speaker  1:18:41
constipation in the mix?

Speaker 14  1:18:43
Yes, okay, so then it'll help that

Unknown Speaker  1:18:46
that is, like a heavy issue of mine, actually,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:49
are you on a probiotic?

Speaker 7  1:18:51
Um, I haven't taken any in like, a while, but I do you give me a probiotic right now? No, okay, that that I haven't taken any in a while, but I used to take probiotics every day.

Speaker 8  1:19:05
She said they never helped. So we just I've always had

Speaker 7  1:19:08
constipation issues, though, since I was really young.

Speaker 6  1:19:12
Um, quick question for you, based on that, how often do you go

Speaker 8  1:19:17
um, when she has to think about it, I will tell her it's an issue. You don't know that you went poop two days ago. That's a problem. Like, if I'm being

Speaker 7  1:19:28
so honest, probably average, like, once or twice a week. Wow. And it's like a struggle. Like, I have to, like, either take medicine or I have to, like, I don't know, like, really force myself.

Speaker 2  1:19:47
Iodorolic, once a day,

Speaker 6  1:19:51
there's a there's a deeper question. However, I would have to send it off to Dr Clearfield and Dr Berber, just because I don't think it's appropriate for this call.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:01
So that's fine. That's fine. Whatever, whatever questions you have, you know where to get

Speaker 15  1:20:10
me. I have a solution for the vegetable thing. Maybe people that I meet that don't like vegetables and myself, I'm eating a lot of vegetables. If I I don't. I love vegetables, so that's not a problem. But sometimes you get tired of and I just add a little cream, if you heavy whipping cream, to the water, and eat it like a soup. It changes everything, and it really does taste good. And she needs her vegetables. I'm telling you, she needs her vegetables. So maybe start with one that you sort of like, or two, like,

Unknown Speaker  1:20:45
I'm eating some vegetables. Est don't eat men, right?

Speaker 15  1:20:48
But, yeah, we want to get variation. So we get all the different phenytoins and almost stuff that doctors know more about than I do. But, um, you, you know, just, you know, try to add things and try to look for things that you've never tasted before, and and try to find things, but add the cream, it really helps, and it's part of the keto diet, so it'll be fine,

Speaker 7  1:21:09
you know? And also, I saw somebody asked about, like, a cervical spine injury. I forgot who it was, but I don't know if I actually, like, ever got a cervical spine injury, but I have, like, gotten an absurd amount of concussions, and have also gotten dropped on my back an absurd amount of times, and I have gotten MRIs of my cervical spine, and it does show that I have narrowing of my cervical spine and also arthroscopic asked that there's that information for you. That was me. Thank you. Yep, you're welcome.

Speaker 8  1:21:55
The results are under the test section for her.

Speaker 7  1:21:58
MRI, yeah. And then like arthrosis in my neck has gotten worse over the years. I'm not really sure why, but Aries, can I ask

Speaker 16  1:22:14
Dr Burgess to chime in on something? Okay, I'm not a clinician. I'm patient, but homocyst rather fascinating, because when you're talking ular apathy, and you think about acupuncture, people think, Well, you got a stick of needles, and you can use electronic acupuncture. And Dr Burgess could talk about what's a good transdermal remedy that you could put on the acupuncture points, and I've had amazing luck with using this when my trigeminal neuter Alc was acting up.

Speaker 7  1:22:51
Okay, I do go to an acupuncturist in

Speaker 16  1:22:54
town, but you can learn it and do it yourself when you just put these little, you know, devices that give you an electronic charge, and you can, did you say you need it? You need

Bill Clearfield  1:23:07
to know who's an acupuncturist in town. Emily, what did you say you needed? You need to know who's an acupuncturist in town.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:14
No, I have one in town,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:17
and we know you are too.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:18
I was gonna, I was just going to volunteer

Speaker 7  1:23:21
that I also did not know that you're an acupuncturist.

Speaker 16  1:23:25
Dr Clearfield that was saying, when she can't make it over to you or over to someone, she can do electronic acupuncture, put on a transnal remedy and do it at home and see what works and learn it. So is it not like needles. You have a lifelong benefit that you can share with others,

Speaker 10  1:23:45
not needles. If that, when we spoke of neural therapy, that is what blocks if you have a blocking in your acupuncture meridians, if there's a blockage from scar tissue, it has to be opened with a voltage change, and that's what lidocaine does. But if you're dealing with a real world like the whole international scene of reality, they can't do the acupuncture unless they do the neural therapy first. So when you're talking about opening up major meridians and doing what we're talking about without the needles, which is beautiful if the pathway is not blocked, and Dr Gerber, are you, who's the neuter therapist in Reno who's doing it

Unknown Speaker  1:24:37
for which headaches?

Speaker 10  1:24:38
Or ma'am, when she's got killer migraines. So you have to look at any scars.

Speaker 17  1:24:43
Oh, headaches. But you know, I'm stuck on her bowel history. She's auto intoxicated. You take vitamin C. Emily, no. Oh, my God, you're in scurvy. You know what Scurvy is?

Bill Clearfield  1:25:01
Curvy. I thought in

Speaker 17  1:25:04
1492 BASO de Gama sailed around the world from Portugal for three years with three ships and 1500 sailors. He got back three years later with one ship, at 50 sailors. All the rest died of scurvy, no fresh food. Now, a goat makes 13,000 milligrams of vitamin C every day in its liver. How much do human beings make every day? Zero, none. So you should be taking 678-910-1112, 1314, 15,000 milligrams of vitamin C every day, and two getting two to three bowel movements per day. Vitamin C is an osmotic lactate, and we really do love magnesium glycinate about 500 milligrams, which is much better absorbed than citrate, for sure. So you can control your bowel totally with magnesium and vitamin C and your autotox. And there are people out there in the world that love such wild things as coffee enema 's, which cleans out your liver so your liver toxic for sure. Tell me, how is your gas and bloating?

Speaker 7  1:26:14
Um, gas is fine. I don't really ever bloat either. You burp. I can't burp. Like, that's just not something I can like.

Speaker 17  1:26:25
Well, I being a parasite Hunter, we love to check you down, check you for parasites, the liver flukes, intestinal flukes, you know, and other roundworms and tapeworms, you know for sure, and it for sure you've got to look at ly, ve ve ve ve ve VE. Infections of ly, ve ve ve ve can cause everything that you ve got. So chances are you 're fairly starving in your in your auto Doct also for for migrainos, doing a Meyer 's cocktail with extra magnesium in it is good, along with the neural therapy and protein,

Speaker 10  1:27:06
any underwear is a mind. So if I go to the acupuncture, I don't look like

Speaker 17  1:27:10
you dirty and so, so, so you could check your axillary you could check your axillary temperatures, that's your underarm temperature. 's under your armpit in the morning before you get out of bed for four or five minutes, normal temperature under the armpit in the morning is 98 degrees, even plus or minus. So if you're 9796 that means your THYROGLOBULIN. By your appearance, you appear low THYROGLOBULIN. You're a little mixed EJ, MCHC, I don't mean not to be flattering, but you're a little puffy, and it's low puffy. Face is low thyroid. And you can also tell it by pulses. So we go by your signs and symptoms. And pulse is the triple warmer pulse in Chinese medicine, which is the third pulse on the right hand. Topic, as superficial, should come up to the top of the skin. So there's lots of ways of diagnosing THYROGLOBULIN. And for sure, your auto talks. You should be able to move your food all the way through you, top to bottom in a day. And you can take you can take a dye, put it in your food and watch it come out the next day. And you're not having food coming to you for probably two to three weeks. So you're autotoxic. You're toxic to your own poop, and it can cause every symptom in the known universe. And then your liver becomes toxic. And then your liver, which is the oil filter of the car, can filter and all those poop toxins are going straight into your bloodstream, and probably, you know, causing vascular changes or your migraines. So if you're toxic, just do a whole bunch of seed, bunch of mag to start with. And let me, or somebody that does EAV, electrophysiobili, take a look at your at your Lyme and BASOPHILS and, you know, other other toxins, and so that's where I would start with you, my dear. Okay, cool, there you go. Is CHD

Speaker 16  1:29:19
onic therapy, Dr. Gerber is onic therapy a forbidden topic,

Speaker 17  1:29:27
not at all. We love colonics. I'm not doing ours right now, but doing coffee colonics, for those that are squeamish, to do coffee enemas. And I have coffee enema instruction sheets. There are coffee enema clubs, people who do coffee enemas every morning for 20 years because it makes them feel so wonderful. It turns out gluten I'm doing doctors, lawyers, accountants, teachers, you know, 20 years coffee enema clubs because it makes them feel so good. And a colonic for this young lady would be great. She's sitting on pounds and pounds of old, rotting fecal material. So you know she's just grossly toxic for sure.

Speaker 2  1:30:08
Yep, I agree. Can't agree more. That's where to start.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:12
NEUT detoxified, okay, Emily, there you go. And I did hold that frequently, what

Bill Clearfield  1:30:23
about, what about, what else? What else we have going on here? You got all this in the song.

Speaker 7  1:30:28
I have a explosive issue that I kind of talked about, if anybody wants

Unknown Speaker  1:30:35
to, that could be a magnesium

Speaker 7  1:30:36
thing to try and figure out that, because it is, in fact, only in my right ankle. Got told that's really not good. Has gotten worse in the last six months,

Speaker 8  1:30:52
almost a year, AGT. AGT. Ur, yeah, like it was when we were at Stanford, when she was getting diagnosed with her muscular dystrophy. The FSHD, the doctor just was transcribing and reflexes, and was doing her reflexes, and someone, and she said, Oh, bonus. And one clonus in the ankle, blah, blah. And so I was like, what is that? And so I came home and I started researching it, and I was like, bonus in the ankle. That is not normal. So every time we go to a doctor, which is all the time, I'd be like, Hey, can you check her reflexes now? And it went from like one clonus to three clonus in the ankle to seven clonus to sustain clonus. And now the doctors are like, What the hell? And I've said, I don't know, you tell me that's

Speaker 11  1:31:39
where I went through the whole sympathetic disruption thing. I mean, that's kind of a zebra, but you could have AGT onic imbalance, and then it's disrupting her hypothalamic pituitary, you know, CNSA integration and blending of her cortisol.

Speaker 7  1:31:50
So, yeah, I also recently got a nerve conductivity test, and they told me that I don't have neuropathy, but that it was still abnormal. You ll get there.

Speaker 1  1:32:04
Yeah. Do you do digestive enzymes when you eat? Nah. What about we ve got a good butyrate from body bio and we also have microbiome dig, might want to start doing the digestive enzymes.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:30
We gotta, we gotta sort all this out and put it in some sort of order here, because otherwise we're going to be,

Speaker 2  1:32:34
we're going to be throwing the kitchen. I always think she makes plenty of that on her own. She's so young, but probiotics could really help her get things moving along with,

Speaker 16  1:32:47
what about like healthy yoga and meditation to de stress?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:52
Um, that's true, too.

Speaker 7  1:32:55
CBD, kind of I did a CBD, um, because of my mother over here. Um, I don't really do yoga or anything any more, or, like working out, just because my body, like, can't really handle anything. But I do do, like, other de stressing stuff. Um, like, I'll journal sometimes. I read a lot build jokes like, build Legos. Y'all build Legos sometimes, and like stuff like that. But I don't actually do Yoga very often.

Speaker 8  1:33:31
I keep trying to get her to go do some type of exercising because, but she lives

Unknown Speaker  1:33:37
hard when you're a full time student,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:39
full time Yeah, full time student. So can I jump in here now

Unknown Speaker  1:33:45
for a second? Who's Yeah, sure.

Speaker 9  1:33:48
Thanks, Emily, you're doing a fantastic job, and I really appreciate your sharing all this information. I wanted to pull in a little bit of Osteopathy. Correlation. Is that okay, if I jump in, is a absolutely Osteopathy seminar, yeah, sure. Great. I love the comments of Dr Gerber, and I think that those you know what he was talking about really will nail a lot of it, also like Dr Burgess, but I'm real impressed with the traumas that you ve had throughout your life, starting in utero, and the C section itself can be viewed as a trauma. But you know in your presentation, you started off saying that it all kind of started with that fall onto your wrist and the fracture of your wrist, and things really went downhill from there, I'm a craniosacral therapist, and so I do a lot of work on the body, not just the muscles in the tissue, but what happens to the other parts of your body that get impacted by by a trauma like you describe. There are a lot of energetic changes that can happen, and these do go along with those meridians that a few people have talked about. So that would be a one really strong consideration I would, I would have with you, looking at the that from a craniosacral standpoint, some of the things that have happened because after that, that insult that you had from that trauma, you start describing one thing after another, and there are a lot of metabolic changes that take place. And a lot of the discussion that tonight has been around the metabolic changes and and things that can be done for that. But I would really look to those, those kind of root causes and and really try to identify that. One other thing I wanted to get into, and this is another big topic, but there is a man, Dr Tennant, who talks about healing and is voltage. He too, talks about meridians, and he talks about how cells in the body need to have voltage. And I think again, that trauma that you had could have really upset a lot of the electrical, if you will, aspects of your body, and a lot of other changes start to happen because of that. So there are, there are people who do work with his philosophy and his his theory on things. I can find an craniosacral therapist in Arizona. I'd have to look and get that. But I don't know anybody who does tenant work out there, but those would be two real big possibilities I could think, help you, as well as the stuff that Dr Gerber was talking about, which could get started pretty quickly. And I think we give you a lot of help.

Speaker 7  1:37:01
Okay, trauma? Would you specifically? What trauma would you specifically look at if I've also had because, like, I've had the wrist one specifically, which you pointed out, but then also, like, after that, I had surgeries also,

Speaker 9  1:37:20
yeah, you said you had some concussions, and those are big, big items, especially with migraine, I would always be looking at trauma and concussion, and a craniosacral therapist could be very helpful for that, as well as the metabolic CK and the medications And the other holistic approaches we talked about tonight, even even the the you know, the cord wrapped around your neck in utero, even the C section, the emergency C section, there are changes that can happen from them that are wide ranging, but there is help. There is stuff that can be done for these things. Okay, you are wonderful. Thank you for sharing this again worse. Thank you, Emily.

Speaker 10  1:38:12
And you are DOB too. And I was just going to ask Emily if she knows of anybody in her area that does the cranial therapy, Dr Leonard just talked about, yeah, that's, that's a big one. There's like a physical way of dealing with all these communication things. And whereas the injections is like a chemical, electrical way of dealing with this voltage. And there have been a couple of Nobel prizes on this in the last few years, and it's all about voltage, just like he said. And the cranialists who are really good can feel it. And I ll let Bill find you somebody who can do that. But it is important, very important. We do? We do?

Speaker 1  1:38:59
We do know someone, Doc, I'll try to get the name wonderful,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:03
excited on so okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:39:05
we'll find, we'll, we'll, we'll find someone for you.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:08
Perfect. Thank you, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:39:11
if we can't do it. So this is sort of the overview, right? Emily, yeah, pretty much, pretty much overview of everything. I yeah, I think that's it, right? And then, and then, these are pretty much the systems that that we have involved. So you can, as you can see, because I know we've been talking about UL, you know, disparate things, but trying to, you know, sort of bring it into some sort of order here, so that we can, you know, we can, we can, you know, make a plan to go forward so, you know, I got, I have, I've been writing down, you know, ideas that, that we've gotten, You know, from neural therapy to like Ocul Calc, the work to iodine, challenge test progesterone. For some reason we didn't get a progesterone level that's that's usually a routine for us. Scar therapy, ketogenic diet, probiotics, DNA analysis, lumbo kinase, Natta kinase, fairly high dose of vitamin C, cran Ocul therapist. So we have quite a few ideas. Anybody else have anything? It's getting to be 630 so we're going to, we're going to let Emily go within a half hour here, we've badgered her enough, I think.

Speaker 2  1:40:38
Can I ask her mentioned biotoxins? You mentioned Lyme and Babesia. I started with a questionnaire to remember the name of the doctor who made the questionnaire to kind of show me whether or not that's the right route to go down. There's just a bunch of yes, no questions that you can answer, and then you add it up, and it tells you whether or not you're likely to have some public biotoxin illness that we have that much. What's the questionnaire again? Who's that? Remember the name of the doctor. Me look it up real quick.

Speaker 11  1:41:10
While she's looking that up. Can you add for treatment plans, autologous cell therapy with stromal vascular fraction? I didn't I couldn't hear you. Dr Collins, if you could add autologous cell therapy, or, you know, using our own cells and then stromal vascular fraction, I'll put it in the chat. I got it.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:37
I got it. Okay, yeah, put it in the chat for us. Emily, what happened when you happened when you had you did Botox for the migraines?

Speaker 7  1:41:45
Um, it worked for like, a little bit, but the Botox were 12. What is it like, 12 weeks apart? I think, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:56
it only lasts three months. So yeah, and

Speaker 7  1:41:59
mine were off literally within like two weeks, like it just does,

Speaker 8  1:42:05
and then it stopped working way too soon, like the insurance would only pay for it every 12 weeks, and she was having migraines, you know, four weeks in, okay, so,

Speaker 7  1:42:17
and then, like, same thing happened When I tried. I was on the endality shot, um, that was a once a month migrain shot, and that worked for probably, like, six months. It worked pretty well. And then after six months, it just like, stopped working, and it wasn't like giving me relief anymore?

Speaker 18  1:42:47
Dr Clearfield, can I ask her something absolutely okay. So Miss Emily. Thank you so much for sharing everything, and I love everybody's ideas. I just kind of want to understand a little bit better about what the experience has been like for you, because I, you know, we're kind of throwing stuff at you, but what's what's this been like? You're saying you're a full time student. You know you don't get to exercise because your body won't let you. You're having to deal with all these restrictions. Of like you've got Ehlers Danlos, and if you do yoga, it's probably makes everything worse, and it's just got to be really hard to go through this.

Speaker 7  1:43:24
Um, yeah, I don't know some days it's like, some days it's harder than others, but I feel like, also I don't really know a different life than this one and, like, the one that I was given. So I've kind of just, like, gone used to it, and my parents do, like a lot for me, for, like, when I'm busy and stuff, and like, schedule my doctor appointments and try to do like, little things to, like, take a lot off of my plate, so I don't have to worry about it, so I can kind of just focus on what I actually, like, really need to do, so they're a big help and stuff. But it definitely can be harder some days, but I feel like I handle it pretty well, and I'm pretty good.

Speaker 18  1:44:13
What's the one thing that, if, like, because you have so many things going on and, like, kind of vying for your body 's attention, like, what's the one thing that bothers you the most? Like, if you could have one thing

Speaker 7  1:44:24
change, just my migraines, honestly, like, I everything else is kind of like a It's really annoying and it like, sucks and isn't great, but, like, the migraines are the one thing that, at this point has gone so bad that it's just, like, straight up debilitating and, like, it's hard to do school work when I have them. Like, I can't really function. I can't talk to people. I can't, like, be in a room with lights on. Like, it gets so bad to the point where, like, I just can't really do anything versus any of the other stuff. I can kind of just, like, put it in the back of my mind and just like, live my life and, like, pretend like it's not there for the time being, but like, the migraine ridge. Just like, really, there's just not a way out of that one. So, like, if there's anything that like needed to go away, that would be the one that I would pick.

Speaker 18  1:45:27
Thank you so much. I really think that's gonna help prioritize stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:31
Thank you, yeah. Of course,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:33
anybody have any thoughts on this? You know, fairly high A and A with everything, everything else being normal.

Speaker 2  1:45:42
Well, all she does have an autoimmune she's got Raynaud's CHD. Also couldn't be the whole start stems from the gut. I mean, our immune system is in our gut. So if she's not pooping every day, then her guts not happy. So her immune system is not happy, and it can be attacking itself,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:02
and we know it can affect the brain also, so absolutely and my

Speaker 7  1:46:07
cousin also. I mentioned earlier that my mom has lupus, but my cousin also has MS, and my aunt has Hashimotos. Hashimoto so autoimmune like really, just NSS D 's

Speaker 11  1:46:20
for everybody, you guys need to do the fat biopsy for real. I mean, I know everyone's brilliant in here. It's the smartest group. I Tuesday nights for my favorite night of the week, because I get to learn so much from all these brilliant, amazing, humble people. But I would say, just look into, you know, using your own fat cells, because you can use it in first degree relatives, and it really, truly helps with inflammation. Save my dad saved my life. No joke.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:46
Okay, I definitely will. Thank you.

Speaker 2  1:46:49
I think my questionnaire, I can't find it by the original doctrine, got it out of my own files, sent to you on email, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:58
Well, you always because you missed, you missed last Saturday 's extravaganza. There it's, you would have loved it.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:05
I didn't. Oh, yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:08
Endocrinology thing, yeah. What about, what about mass Emily? What about mass cell? It's been a brief mention of that. You know, trip taste levels are usually, are only elevated if you, if you get them during, during a sort of an acute event, that's my understanding.

Speaker 8  1:47:27
I don't believe she's ever been tested for mast cells, and then everything I looked up for that, I'm just not quite sure if it bit, a lot of times when I was looking it up, and I'm obviously don't know what I'm looking for. I'm just trying to research stuff, hives, that kind of stuff, almost like allergic reactions. And she doesn't have any of that her body just

Speaker 7  1:47:53
okay, that's actually not really true. I sometimes do get hives, but

Speaker 8  1:47:57
normally when you get hives, it's from medication. Do you remember after my surgery, that's from medication?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:04
What medication?

Speaker 8  1:48:05
I don't know, but it was Methylene. I'm sure

Bill Clearfield  1:48:10
we did pretty well over here for almost more than an hour and a half before they start bickering. So that's excellent. And of course, we have our, you know, our insulin resistance, that we got to work on. Yeah, yeah, you got the glucose monitor.

Speaker 10  1:48:33
Hey, hey, Bill. Hey, Emily, Emily, you have definitely made my day. And I think doing what we did tonight and bringing in a team of people to help somebody just out of compassion and common sense, this has been a mind blowing event, and I want to thank you again for doing this. Thank you. We really appreciate it.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:04
Okay, and then there was that PREGNENOLONE level of 437

Unknown Speaker  1:49:10
Dr Are you still

Bill Clearfield  1:49:12
using the low dose Naltrexone? Emily, I am, yes, okay. Did you have any side effects from that?

Unknown Speaker  1:49:20
Not that I know of.

Speaker 16  1:49:22
Okay, you can always ask Dr glass and Dr Joseph,

Speaker 1  1:49:29
true, how's your sleeping? Emily, right now, right now.

Speaker 7  1:49:34
I have a really hard time falling asleep. Like, really bad. Um, once I fall asleep, then I can, like sleep for an outrageous amount of time. Okay, that's right, yeah, but I do have really bad insomnia.

Speaker 1  1:49:51
Okay, little magnesium should help with the sleep. Too.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:55
Perfect. All right, so I think, I think we have some pretty good, pretty good ideas about what to do. There's 32 chats in the chat that I haven't gotten to yet. So Dr, nary. Is there anybody online? I know you're not. I know you're not talking tonight.

Speaker 16  1:50:16
Can Dr Clearfield contact her, Tano, give her, her AI applications to see

Bill Clearfield  1:50:24
anything Dr Tanno would anything. Dr Tanno would recommend for you know that,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:34
okay, personality, death,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:38
have ozone therapy is another suggestion. Formula, A, 304, a, I'm not it's a cannabinoid. Is that what that is not familiar with that one, CBG,

Speaker 8  1:50:54
I'm definitely familiar with CBG. She does CBD, mostly, and then she will do THC in the evenings. She does about seven milligrams in the evenings to help her sleep. It kind of takes her pain away so she can sleep. But I haven't really given her I don't have a really good CBG product, so I ll look into that one for sure.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:24
See, talk to Jackson,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:26
what I'm reading here, what? So what I'm reading, when I'm reading through all this, and I've been taking notes all the time, is that, Dr Gerber, if we get you me, Dr Shallenberger, and everybody else that does what we do, you know, in one form or another. And have Emily go through the gauntlet, we should have her perfect within a year, right,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:51
hopefully in time for PA school,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:54
hopefully in time for PA school, so that you can fix whoever else comes comes along. That's the plan. Go all the way we have one here. I was going

Unknown Speaker  1:52:05
to but feel free to give myself. Dr CLIA, I have one thing. If

Speaker 19  1:52:15
money were not the problem, then arthroplasty, plasma exchange would be beautiful.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:20
Because that would take care of, what was that? What was that?

Speaker 19  1:52:25
Therapeutic? Plasma exchange, TPE, I think that probably will clear many of the things that underlining her condition. They would take care of toxins, Homogenous everything else, infections, whatever may be underneath causing problem for her, may be regulated by VE Suma change, but it's expensive. I don't know how financially that is feasible or not.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:02
Cool. Or where it's even done already. Is it done around here? Dr bursit,

Speaker 17  1:53:09
a buddy of ours in the Bay Area, does the plasmapheresis?

Bill Clearfield  1:53:13
Okay, all right, you know, I know a little bit about it, not a whole lot, and I don't know, like I said, I know anybody around here who does it, but

Speaker 19  1:53:24
we, we will find out. Actually, I know, I know people who do it, and if you know that there's a need, then we could contact those individuals, then they would take care of it, reputable people.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:44
How expensive is it? Dr CHOL, I'm not sure,

Speaker 19  1:53:49
but she has to do probably five to eight sessions, and it runs, I'm not sure how much that we charge for that. So Dr neutrio said 5k per person, I don't know per session. It could be close. Yes, okay, but health wise, I mean, health is expensive, all of these things, if you can do it, and Jellinger, whatever is aching you, perhaps you have a better life. And that's basically but I think that tomorrow's medicine is going to be detox medicine, and this TPE is going to be huge.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:36
Okay, okay, so we will try and run that down also.

Speaker 1  1:54:41
Okay. Dr chantil, yes. What is she? What is she just did regular blood donations, because you can do that monthly without Is

Speaker 7  1:54:55
there a weight limit on blood donations, like a certain weight? Yeah, yeah. I don't think I hit the weight because I tried to do a blood donation A while ago, and my primary told me I didn't weigh enough. You don't, yeah, okay, that's what I thought.

Speaker 19  1:55:11
Yeah. I think it would, it would take a lot more to do donations or and she cannot do other detox because she's constipated all the time. In order to do detox with supplements and all of that, she has to have a regular bowel movement, which is not happening.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:35
Well, I think we got quite a we have quite a few ideas, and then we got to put 'em together for you. Analyte, perfect. So again, Dr neutrino, anybody online or No,

Speaker 20  1:55:50
I know that the insurance insurance, they cover for plasma, phenytoins, they do it a lot of patients. They did it in New York, and it was through the insurance. If she has a doctor that is there in the hospital like and recommends the procedure, then she can have it free.

Speaker 2  1:56:13
Okay, Salins, you're gonna be okay. Thank you right now, but it's really can be fixed on a percent. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:27
I know I have, I have in the chat from Dr Leonard that he emailed somebody in the our area of the pren ossequel therapist. So I ll let you know about that. Tell Emily she was terrific, also her mom and I wasn't so bad either, so we'll take it okay. I am off tonight. I am leaving for Florida to go to ammg, and if you're still, if you if you want to go, there's a 20% off coupon there was, they were in the emails the last last two weeks. So you need, if you need CME credits, let me know, and we can get you in. It's a great place. It's the rail National Golf Club. It's, it's really nice, and it's not, it's not like a for M it's not 9 million people and and we're nice to you too, other than Dr Dr Nario there, they're not so corporate. So anybody else have any any last words here? Analyte, we're going to let you go. Thank you so much. This was really, really terrific, and we will, we will put everything together, come up with a with a coherent plan. And if, if you don't mind, maybe every once in a while, every six months to a year or so, let us know how your Pract progressing here, of course. And I hope everybody liked this, this format, you know, it was a little bit different than what we usually do. And if you, if you like this, you know, we can, we can other, other sort of case histories, because, as all of us on here, know, we, we don't, we don't get the simple ones.

Speaker 20  1:58:22
So I just want to say that I checked for Mirena side effects, and it can give headache, fatigue, ly headed NSS, so maybe she has to have that removed and replaced with something else. Or I Okay, her symptoms are since she got the Mirana, or before she had before and after, after she had a Mirana. Were they worse?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:58
I don't think so.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:00
Yeah, that would have been too easy. Come on. You're gonna make it that easy on them here. No, never, never, come on. That would, that would have been too, way too easy. All right. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Yeah, if she

Speaker 5  1:59:21
needs any PD, THC, information, I'm available. Perfect. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:26
We can get anybody, anybody, yeah, we have everybody contacts here, Emily, so perfect. We can, we can, you know, like I said, we have a really nice group that we can draw from. One last thing that Raphael says, heavy metals. You know, we're gonna, we're gonna look at those two. So, yes, okay, so I hope you all like this, this format, it's a little bit different than what we do. I hope you learn, we learned something, and it's a little bit more practical than some of the, some of the, you know, didactic stuff we got getting some we get it. You're getting a lot of hearts and loves in here, Emily, so you're more than we're here every we've been here since 2020 we're here every Tuesday at five o'clock Pacific time. You're more than welcome to join us, especially if you want to become a integrative medicine PA, don't go that regular route. You know, you don't want to.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:27
Oh, okay, I'll keep that in.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:30
We'll take you to the next endocrine, real endocrinology conference, and you'll see, you'll see the difference.

Speaker 7  2:00:35
Okay, perfect. I'll be ready. All right, guys.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:39
So thank you so much.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:41
Next week, we have our old friend Piper DOB NS coming back with some more

Unknown Speaker  2:00:44
details from the thank you so much again, world.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:49
Thank you so much, Emily, thank you, Dr. Dr, venerio, rest your voice up. Okay, and I will be reporting from ammg. So thank you all, and we're going to say good night, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:05
Good night you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai