Unknown Speaker  00:05
Okay, don't miss me too much.

Unknown Speaker  00:16
There he is, best looking guy this side of the Pecos, right?

Unknown Speaker  00:29
Yeah, I'm muted.

Speaker 1  00:31
There you go. Best looking guy this side of the Pecos,

Unknown Speaker  00:37
thank you. That's good, right, right? Right,

Speaker 1  00:41
all right. Okay. How are you this week?

Speaker 2  00:44
I'm doing well, a little tired from all the gymnastics. I'm really sorry we couldn't hear your talk, because Dr bird just messed it up. Everything,

Speaker 1  00:58
yeah, including you. Spent about $8,500 and didn't take any money in right, which, which is not a good way to do business, correct, right, right? If he'd gotten 500 bucks from everybody who showed up, we would at least have broken even. Correct, so, and, yeah, I mean, I guess part of was my fault. I did. He said 11 o'clock. So I was ready at 11 o'clock. I didn't realize it was 11 o'clock in West Virginia, right? So, all right, how did it go? Otherwise, very good.

Speaker 2  01:33
I think, you know, for at least a little thing that we did,

Unknown Speaker  01:36
did they did they? Was it videoed at all? No,

Speaker 2  01:41
because nobody wanted to be videotaped. Dr Dimitri said no, he didn't want this stuff to be videoed. The lady who talked about PTSD did not want things to be videoed. In the end, we had nothing.

Speaker 1  01:58
Part of part of the deal is that you video it so that we could, at least, he paid $2,000 for somebody to show up there, correct? You've run these things, you know, better than that, right, right, all right, we're not gonna, we're not gonna do that anymore. Yeah,

Speaker 2  02:19
I couldn't go against that wish is there. Yeah, no video. So we kept it that way.

Speaker 1  02:28
No videos. They never, even I never, I never did get a link, you know, a zoom link. I mean, I got, I was on the phone there for a half hour, and then, I don't know what happened to it, yeah, so, I don't know I yeah, whatever. Hey, Joe, good to see you. Doc, yeah, well, dr, Burgess had his soiree over the land over the weekend, and,

Unknown Speaker  02:56
yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:59
it had a few hiccups, I guess.

Unknown Speaker  03:02
Ah, jeez, that's too bad.

Bill Clearfield  03:07
Yeah. So anyway, so Nemo, which is the Nevada homeopathic Association. Normal wants us, wants to put on a a a show in the second week of November in Reno. So what do you think about that? Dr Tano,

Speaker 2  03:26
yeah, that would be really nice. I think, I guess so,

Speaker 1  03:31
yeah. So we, I mean, we've done them here before, and you know, we usually have anywhere from 75 to 90 show up.

Unknown Speaker  03:41
That's nice. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:46
you know, there's some nice venues here. It's not too cold yet, so we're going to do it at the end of October, but I got invited to some vitamin C conference that to speak in

Speaker 2  03:57
Florida, right? So in November, it would be really nice, because now, from now till November, there's a lot of time to organize.

Speaker 1  04:07
Yeah, that there's that. So, yeah, so

Speaker 3  04:14
when, where are you going to the vitamin C conference,

Speaker 1  04:17
to Clearwater, Florida? Okay, Okay, nice. And I also got invited to the androgen society. Doctor, that's Doctor Morgan, tellers group.

Unknown Speaker  04:29
Oh, okay, yeah, San

Speaker 1  04:33
Francisco, so I'm supposed to talk about the clinical aspect applications of testosterone for women. We know something about that, right?

Unknown Speaker  04:46
Yeah, you betcha,

Speaker 1  04:51
interesting or Dr Tano knows something about it. All suits, right, right. So how many were at this thing? Dr Tano, not

Speaker 2  05:01
many, so it was, Dr Dimitri, Dr Burgess, myself, Marie and the lady Kathy. Kathy, the Dutch Dutch lady, another lady Dutch who showed up, but I brought my wife with me. But you know she, she was just a companion me.

Speaker 1  05:33
Now, is it? What about, uh? When did you do? Did you go to some farm on Sunday that was this big?

Speaker 2  05:44
Yeah, well, went to Mary's farm, but it was late when we got there, so we didn't really stay long. We just, yeah, saw her place, and then moved back and came back nice.

Speaker 1  06:04
Okay, so Joe and Dr Nario have made you both co hosts. I got Dr nacorado coming. I have to give him some shots and things when he gets here during the show. So sure, sure

Unknown Speaker  06:22
he's the one from incline.

Unknown Speaker  06:26
Who's that? Knock

Speaker 4  06:27
Prado? Where, right, you go there to the conference, to see meet up with him, South Lake. All right, he's your number one fan. He's,

Unknown Speaker  06:37
yeah, yeah, next to you.

Unknown Speaker  06:42
Where? We're squeezing ourselves in there,

Speaker 1  06:44
yeah. So we've been treating them with so I, you haven't been around, so I have a trans cranial magnetic stimulation device. Now,

Speaker 4  06:53
I saw that that's the bus that's coming, coming

Speaker 1  06:57
on Saturday, alright? So the fun bus, fun bus, and so we've been treating him for tinnitus. He's had tinnitus pretty severe for about five years. He he has he's had some pretty good we've had some pretty good success with that. We've been using that Transcranial Magnetic stimulator. We've been doing four days a week for five weeks. We've been giving them BPC 157, and the acupuncture points around the ear with any ones that are tender. We've been giving them,

Unknown Speaker  07:41
Oh, he got cut off.

Unknown Speaker  07:44
I just let him back in.

Speaker 4  07:45
He didn't pay his internet. Is

Unknown Speaker  07:54
he back? You're muted, Doc,

Speaker 1  07:57
I don't know. I clicked off there for a second. We'd be giving him a mushroom combination. And we've been doing battlefield acupuncture. So the little tiny gold points and needles in the in the outer part of the ear, the five points on each side, right

Unknown Speaker  08:14
the blue you insert.

Speaker 1  08:17
Better days are much better. The worst days are not as severe as they used to be, so I'm fairly encouraged that we least hit on some relief for this. Dr Gordon claims that his hormone optimization and his mushroom combination has a 53% he doesn't call a cure, whatever you would call it regression rate. So,

Unknown Speaker  08:47
so how do you, how do you space this out?

Speaker 1  08:51
Oh, he's been doing the the X of mine, or the the trans, the TMS, about four days a week, sometimes five, and we've been doing the injections three days a week. We've been using the VPC 157 TV 500 combination, about point one cc each in three acupuncture points around the year. The basically the tender points. But if you know the acupuncture points, it's gallbladder, one, small intestine, one, and triple, warmer, 17, so that basically just the tender points. Around a year, said we've been using the DR Gordon's neuro shield. Neuro shield is that, what it's called, which is a combination of six mushroom and the TMS, so your

Speaker 4  09:53
office for numerous periods of time in a week, basically, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:58
today's having a great day. So like I said, the the number of bad days that he has, he's usually seems to be associated with weather, and when there's weather patterns that come through, seem to be the worst days. And his his number of good days is far exceeds the number of bad days. And the bad days, instead of, say, being a nine or a 10, he's he's has a five, a four to five, sometimes a six, okay, in fact, he's here. He can tell you himself, you want to, you want

Unknown Speaker  10:36
to hop on, lives there.

Bill Clearfield  10:40
So this is Jim here. This is Jim nakarato. He's a chiropractor, psychologist. He does practice management. He's, he's, he's been my, my practice mentor for 10 years. And if I listen to a third of what he ever told me, I'd be in a lot better shape than I am, at least business wise.

Speaker 3  11:02
Oh, we see the cholesterol decoded book.

Unknown Speaker  11:09
Yeah, I doubt I have to share my screen. Can I

Unknown Speaker  11:16
stop sharing? There you go. Now we see you

Unknown Speaker  11:25
all right. Where's the famous Dr nakarato?

Unknown Speaker  11:33
We do we lose again.

Speaker 4  11:37
Felony needs to pay it. It's not for free. He's, he's using the gas stations, internet again. That's

Unknown Speaker  11:46
right, right.

Unknown Speaker  11:52
Ah, he left. Okay, yeah,

Speaker 4  11:55
he dropped off. Okay, well, maybe I can start with my Andrew wild Tip of the Day. Since he he's not here, sounds good, or so for our tip of the day today. So we all know about HRV, and it's a variation in time between heart beats. And of course, it reflects low and also, well, the automatic nervous system is it's indicating that it's functioning. And higher HRV suggests better fitness, stress, reliance, and also, again, as as we know that HRV is always something that we we we kind of hear about when we use these new machines, such as the whoop or the or the, what is this the the, what is this machine like instead of EKG machine? So, but anyway, we always know HRV that way, and the common things that regulates HRV would be exercise, weight loss, meditation, mindful, prayers of slow breathing, Mantra, excessive writing, cold, cold water, immersions for recovery and even daily far infrared saunas. So this is 140 Fahrenheit, 15 minutes, four to at least around two, two weeks. I think that's the study that shows that. But the one that surprised me with our lessons today, there are supplements that actually can improve HRV, so this will be fish oil. So the the dose would be DHA, 260 milligrams, and then for EPA, 60 milligrams. So this is dose related response. The higher you give yourself fish oil, such as when the studies range from two grams to six grams per day. This actually affects HRV better. Another supplement that affects HRV St John's worth of 900 milligrams per day, lavender, especially in aromatic oil form, or even foot baths, so 200 micro liters in capsule form, and the Japanese medicine called Campo. It's a blend powdered of ginseng, 250 milligrams, bezuer, 50 milligrams, glycerhiza, 50 milligrams. And also, for the patients who are deficient in vitamin D and B 12, if you correct that, HRV will also be corrected. Zinc also is a prenatal supplement that results in higher HRV, not for the mom, but for the baby. So that's an interesting one. And then GABA, again, the studies were actually in covered chocolate form, and this actually helps post exercise HRV. So for food, you could also use salmon. So three meals weekly over six months, was the study. It improves HRV, sleep and anxiety, yogurt with bioactive cultures and B vitamins, one half cup twice daily. That also helps out of all the diets, the Mediterranean diet has a higher association for improvement of HRV, and when you also consume 500 meals of water in one shot, acutely improves HRV for healthy people, and then for wine, not beer or spirits, low, moderate daily consumption appears safe and beneficial. And lastly, surprisingly, coffee of 250 milligrams, usually two cups, twice a day improves HRV. So again, I just thought HRV is improved by all of these specific activities, but there are supplements and dietary interventions that you can actually involve in there. So that's my Andrew Weil, Tip of the Week is Dr Quinn here. Yep. Dr Quinn, are you there? Yes, yes, sir, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes. So, so for everybody, I definitely want to congratulate, Doctor Quinn. We are thrilled to celebrate your deserved appointment to the Nevada State Board of homeopathic medical examiners. Being selected by the governor is a tremendous honor, and one that reflects your exceptional dedication, integrity and commitment to the people of Nevada. As a board member entrusted with safeguarding public health, your role is both a privilege and a responsibility. You are chosen, I tell you, in your selection after rigorous screening, is a testament to your expertise and that the trust placed in you. So we have no doubt you will serve with wisdom, vision and unwavering dedication. Congratulations on this remarkable achievement.

Speaker 5  16:33
Raw. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now the work starts right.

Speaker 4  16:38
So now you're a public servant, not a senator yet or a governor. But yeah, I think so

Speaker 5  16:45
good, yeah. Well, thank you. Thank you. I look forward to it. I look forward to working with you and the others as well. Yes,

Speaker 4  16:50
of course, so, but yeah, I will be a great well, you'll probably have more years than us because you're we're already serving. And, yeah, it'll be good. We'll give you, we'll give you all the help you need.

Speaker 5  17:04
Good thank you. Yeah. As a matter of fact, I have a call tonight with about 630 or so, with Charles Green to kind of get the low down on what had been happening.

Speaker 4  17:16
Okay, alright, good. Yeah, good one. He He did good work for the board.

Speaker 5  17:21
Yeah, also, I think John glvinovich, Dr glunovich, is going to be on the call. Too. Good. Yeah, you're in good company. There. Good, good, good, good. Well, thank you very much. That's very nice of you to say kind words. You're

Speaker 4  17:34
welcome. You're welcome. All right. Dr Tanner, are you ready? Yeah, all right. Let's do it the floor is yours.

Speaker 2  17:47
So do you guys see my stuff? Yes, yes, very good. So, as you all know, I don't do any straight lecturing. I would appreciate all your participation possible to make it a success. Stefan, my man, I saw you earlier, so thank you there. Yes, I'm here. Okay, good, so you're gonna, you're gonna help me. Yes, alright, so today, we're going to talk about cholesterol decoded. And this is a book that I have actually put on Amazon. It got a little bit of traction. People are reading it last month. They read probably about 1000 pages. And so it means that some people are interested in this topic. So if you take many of the chronic diseases that we have in America today, we have the hypertension, diabetes, cholesterol, come next. So that's part of the thing that all the doctors are treating. But I really think that we're not mastering that very well. So there are some parts that are still missing, and it will be nice for us to understand it very well, so then we can decode it and help other people understand it also. So cholesterol decoded the good, the bad and the misunderstood. So that's what the title is, and this is on the mediverse Our tyre pro mediverse in a digital book format. So those of you who are interested in reading it, you can and also, we have a little documentary that goes along with it. So both of them things that you can have access to if you want to let me know, we can just give you access to it, at least For now, for this group. So

Unknown Speaker  19:54
trying to pass, yeah, I think it's sticky. I'm going to minimize this one here.

Speaker 2  20:13
We're going to skip all of that. So the objectives I will go to understand the historical significance of insight key. So how many of you know the associate keys, Seven Countries Study? Because I think that actually changed the way we see cholesterol and parts in this country. Many of us know about keys, and who was he? Stefan. Do you know?

Speaker 6  20:45
Yes, I'm aware of Ansel keys. He was a researcher that traveled to these blue zones back in the day, and he associated their dietary habits with their longevity. But his research was promoted over another researcher who studied the Eskimos in the Antarctic found opposite readings regarding cholesterol. But for some reason, his ideas were promoted over the Eskimo findings, right?

Speaker 5  21:13
Yeah, also, isn't he the guy that invented K rations?

Unknown Speaker  21:19
Okay? Russian military K

Unknown Speaker  21:21
rations for the military, because

Unknown Speaker  21:23
that's 100% right.

Unknown Speaker  21:24
That's right,

Speaker 2  21:27
yes, yeah, so that's good. So as a keys, he was, what do you guys know? What he did as a profession? But this guy is very significant in modern history, because he impacted the way America nourishes people overall. So it's a nice to know a little bit what he did.

Speaker 6  21:50
He cherry picked data, and then he promoted it to Congress and the American Heart Association, and when they got his concept of the lipid hypothesis, hypothesis promoted for the next century, correct.

Speaker 2  22:04
So based on this one study, the Seven Countries Study, the whole dietary nutrition recommendation in America changed completely, and we followed him blindly. I would say, I don't know, for several years, and now we know the result. The result is what we witnessing in terms of metabolic syndromes and everything else. So as I kiss, he was a physiologist, and my home state of Minnesota, that's where he was from, and he was the one who came up with the best studies, and we're going to talk a little bit about that. So describe a physiology, physiological function of cholesterol. So many people, when they think about about cholesterol, we think of it as a bad stuff. We hear cholesterol, we all run away because we think is going to cause heart attack. But without cholesterol, the human being cannot function, because cholesterol has many, many useful functions in our body, the cells, everything else. And so it will be important to see what the cholesterol does. So we need to identify the types of sub and subtypes of lipoproteins and the lipoprotein, or lipoprotein, as I call them, we have several of them, but we need to understand what they mean. We distinguish between normal LDL and oxidized LDL. I think that's where the confusion lies in terms of cholesterol be oxidized, LDL, and explain the mechanism of foam cell formation. The foam cells we all know, macrophage that get engulfed with eating the cholesterol remnants, so they become obese and they create more trouble than we think, and then analyze the composition of the atherosclerotic plaques, interpret advanced lipid panel results and explore the orthomolecular and functional medicine approaches explain the role of insulin in the cholesterol, bios and pesticide. I don't think I went there, but we can talk about that connected to the resistance and dyslipidemia.

Speaker 2  24:30
So have many of you who have assisted or who have come to some of the presentation that I did. I came up with a macro medicine diagram. And I also have written now a book about the macro medicine ideas, where we connect everything. So if I show you my macro medicine diagram, that is the house. Remember, this is the big house where we start from cholesterol, BNB foundation. So cholesterol is the starting material to build this whole big house. Many times when we say cholesterol is used to make the hormones, many are not quite clear which part of cholesterol is used to make the hormone. So I put in here, so the LDL cholesterol, so called the bad cholesterol that is used to make the hormones. So our good hormones and many of the body functions depend on the LDL cholesterol. So what does LDL cholesterol do? What? What is the role of it? So how do we differentiate? Well, because we hear LDL, HDL, all of that, how do we differentiate between LDL and HDL cholesterol?

Speaker 3  25:56
Doesn't it transfer the hormones via each other. So your little map right here showing you the pregnenolone, progesterone, DHEA, testosterone, estriol. It transfers all that via the cholesterol transportation system, correct,

Speaker 2  26:14
yeah. So the LDL is like the packaged cholesterol from the liver. So because cholesterol is made in the liver, and when it's made there, it has to go to all the different places where it's needed. It can go to the gonads, it can go to the adrenals, it can go to every cell in the body. So how do we get the cholesterol to every cell in the body is the LDL cholesterol package that takes that cholesterol to the different parts of the body. Wow, good question. So LDL is very, very important. Now let's, for argument's sake, look at that LDL. We think that when we do the general cholesterol testing, we measure the HDL, the LDL, all of that, and if the LDL is very high, we say, well, you're going to die a heart attack, so we have to somehow reduce that LDL, and many times, when the patient come and complain, we never really look at all these aspects. But it's very important to find out if they're on starting drugs and they're feeling weak, they have aches and pains, they cannot think straight. They're not forgetful. Could be because they're reducing the LDL so much that they have nothing left for the body function that require the cholesterol, and that is very important, that we become aware of it. And so the things that we'll talk about, like the lipoprotein fractionation test is going to attest to that, that normally, if we fractionate or the LDL, the HDL, and all of that, then we will know which part of this LDL is not good. So then we can tackle it, or try to address it rather than looking at the whole LDL and say that this is the villain. We need to attack it. And I'm not sure why in the 21st Century, because the test to do the lipoprotein fractionation test has been around. I was aware of it since probably 2010 22,009 area, but still, the general practitioners have not caught up yet. If they order cholesterol, it's always the old total cholesterol, HDL, total LDL, and all of these things that they measure. And they're starting people and starting drugs based on those results, which I think is really malpractice, if you look at it. Yeah, any questions about this thing soil so far? Yeah?

Speaker 6  29:10
Well, yeah, I've been ordering these lipid barnacle fractionation tests for a couple of years now. I've looked at probably maybe close to 500 plus or more. And this is some correlations you can find with the standard lip panel. So the standard lip panel is like maybe $2.50 and the advanced one is maybe 20 bucks. So it's great value. I think the best part of lipid particle Fractionation is the insulin resistance score that you can get with it with the NMR on lab core. And then you can also get the small LDL particle count, but then you can also get the total LDL particle count, and I've seen numbers very high sometimes where it's up to 2000 and even 3000 and when it gets up that high, I start them on pharmaceutical therapies, and whether that might be a simple Ezetimibe or even in some cases, rosuva, statin, that seems to be my threshold when starts getting upwards of, you know, 1800 2000 plus,

Speaker 2  30:09
right? When it's getting very high, yeah. So, so I will talk about that. I have, I have all the information about that, so we can discuss how to read it and what needs to be done when those are high or not good other questions. So, as you know, without LDL cholesterol, we have no good hormone. So our good hormones come from the LDL cholesterol, and it goes to preninolone, preninone goes to a progesterone DHA, by the way. So where, where does this? LDL, go? Which organelle is receiving this? LDL,

Speaker 2  30:55
anybody? Where? Where does deliver? Deliver? I couldn't hear liver. Now, believer makes it, and then it's packaged in LDL. And LDL is going to go to be different cells. So which part of a cell is going to receive the LDL to make the magic happen? So for instance, this is going to be adrenals. But which part of the adrenals is going to receive it to do the job,

Unknown Speaker  31:27
the inner mitochondrial membrane in the

Speaker 2  31:29
mitochondria. So now talking about the mitochondria, what? How many different parts of the mitochondria do we need to know that is important in the cholesterol metabolism. Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  31:48
All of them, all

Speaker 2  31:49
of them. But let's say two parts, two parts that are very important. So we have the outer membrane and we have the inner membrane. So what? What does the action take place where the mitochondria transform the cholesterol into subsequent products? What? Where does it occur

Speaker 1  32:12
to go from the outer membrane to the inner membrane? Right?

Speaker 2  32:16
Exactly It goes from the outer membrane to the inner membrane. So why do you think that cholesterol accumulates when we get older?

Unknown Speaker  32:29
Lack of membrane permeability.

Speaker 2  32:30
That's correct. Lack of membrane permeability, because of the outer membrane. Somehow, when we get older, thickens, and when it's too thick, then it's difficult for the cholesterol to go easily through the membrane into the inner membrane, where the enzyme that transform the cholesterol is located. So that is the case. Then what do we do? How many of you know what we do to try to facilitate the transfer or the cholesterol into the mitochondria? What? What supplement? What? What lipids? What supplement do we use to to as a shadow for the cholesterol to be transported inside the mitochondrion

Speaker 7  33:25
phospholipids, yeah, fats,

Speaker 2  33:29
that's one way. And other other supplements that we use. Anybody who said that anti factor, who said l carnitine? I did okay, yeah, so Acero l carnitine is the shadow, and that's why that supplement is very important. So if you have patient who have high cholesterol and all of that, there should be on a serial carnitine because that would allow them to shadow the cholesterol into the mitochondrion. That's one way. So when the cholesterol gets there, so how? How do we get vitamin D?

Speaker 5  34:19
Does the sun convert the cholesterol in the skin to vitamin D,

Speaker 2  34:24
yeah, so in the skin so the UV light will convert base seven dehydrocholesterol into the vitamin D. So again, here seeing the facts the function of cholesterol, LDL, cholesterol is not only to make our good hormones, but also it makes things like vitamin D and the integrity of our membranes, the cell membranes. All of those are due to the cholesterol. So if we play games and start reducing this cholesterol in the body? Well, chances are many things will go wrong.

Speaker 6  35:06
Why do the patients with obesity have also a low vitamin D and high lipids?

Speaker 2  35:12
Yeah, so that's a that's a really good question, because of the, I think the insulin resistance and all of these other things play a major role in that too. So I don't have an answer. Do you know Stephen?

Unknown Speaker  35:29
No, I have no idea, but I always see it,

Speaker 2  35:31
yeah, it's clear, because we have a lot of obese individuals who also have vitamin D deficiency, yeah, but vitamin D deficiency in general, may be due to the fact that they're not exposed to the sun in America, except for Florida, where everybody's naked. No, sorry,

Speaker 6  35:55
it's not explained because the low vitamin D level, we're talking like maybe in single digits, or like 19 vitamin D hydroxy and they have such obesity. It's not explained because I don't see in the general population that doesn't have the extreme obesity.

Speaker 2  36:09
Well, yeah, true. Actually, it does, though. For instance, if do you know the population that has the one of the lowest vitamin D in the whole world? No, actually, in the tropics, I've seen so many people from the tropics, Africa, India, who have very low vitamin D, and I think it's because of a lack of exposure to the sun. The sun is so hard. Many people don't just go into the sun and bathe in the sun and do all of that. So they're not getting the vitamin D at the end of the summer here, I measure a lot of vitamin D, and it's always low. So people say I'm getting my vitamin D from the sun, but not they're not getting it. It's not working. It's

Speaker 3  36:57
not No, it's not that easy. We're at 4500 to 5000 feet here in Nevada, and Dr Clearfield could talk about it, but we have a lot of people who are vitamin D deficient, and they don't know why, because we're supposedly close to the sun, but it just doesn't seem to work. So it's not just sun.

Speaker 2  37:21
Yeah, it's not just but my thinking is that we're not exposed enough, because when we go out, all that is exposing is the head, the face, the arms, because people are always wearing clothes, and the sun is not penetrating those clothes. And get us vitamin D, right? And plus, we do use sunscreens, and that's one thing that they tell us to wear all the time. And so in the end, we don't get the vitamin D

Speaker 4  37:52
for the obesity part. Vitamin D is fat soluble, so this actually devoids the circular systemic circulation of that vitamin D. So that's why, when you test it, it doesn't show up as if it's staying in the in the fatty tissue.

Speaker 2  38:07
It's ourselves. Yeah, right, right. That's, that's a good explanation, actually, yes,

Speaker 5  38:13
yeah. It's, it's kind of thought that if you want to get your Vitamin D from the sun, basically the exposure is playing volleyball on the beach for eight hours a day in Hawaii, that'll probably do it

Speaker 2  38:27
right, correct, so differently. So the cholesterol, LDL, converts to the preninolone, and then all of that. So we know this mechanism. We know in terms of hormones, we definitely need a good LDL amount. Now the LDL does not go by itself, so that LDL is combined with a protein. How many of you name know that the name of that protein and what it means. So there's a protein part and there's a lipid part. So what is the protein part? Called apolipoprotein? It's the apolipoprotein. So what does April means? Does anybody know what APO means? Because I see a lot of the time, Apple lipoprotein, apo, VAT, apo this April, a one April, a two, FCC, etc. But APO means

Speaker 6  39:30
what? It's a carrier protein of the lipids. It's a carrier

Speaker 2  39:34
protein. But what does it mean? What is it? What APO is a word. It's a it's a Greek word, actually it means something. So Apple means from or without. So that part April means so without the lipid. So if you take the protein itself that is part of the lipid component, the lipoprotein, the protein part that does not contain the lipid is the Apple part. The Apple protein means it's a part of a protein without the lipid, and that's why the apple means without in this case. So what APO protein goes along with the LDL to be transported to the cells and get to the mitochondria and all of that. Anybody.

Speaker 2  40:40
So we have the apple b1 100, that is going to be the transporter that will help the LDL go to other places. And we'll see as we go and talk about that so that, yes, does

Speaker 5  40:57
the does the protein that's not bound to the lipid do anything.

Speaker 2  41:03
No, it's a by itself. It doesn't, it doesn't really does nothing. Yeah, it does it can I occupy the receptors, but it doesn't do anything. It has to be attached to the pro to the lipid to be able to do the transport.

Speaker 5  41:20
Can't do anything else. No, no other protein use, right? Oh, wow.

Speaker 2  41:27
Thank you. And the history, I mean, the history of the apple protein actually started back, you know, long, long time ago people tried to figure out this, 50s, 60s. That's when they were trying to study that APO protein, that they came up with a numbering. Apo protein, one, April protein two. They have a CS. They have all the, all of the numbering of it. But I tried to figure out who actually named them. But I said it's a combination of everybody coming in with some determination what they should be called and how they should be numbering them, so they didn't give credit to one particular person who discovered it and did everything. So how can go forward? Because I want to just show you a little bit how this LDL cholesterol goes. Here. I talk about small, dense lip of LDL particle. So the particle sizes, the LDL particles are very important, right? So if we talk, we think about the LDL cholesterol, which is the protein plus the lipid part by itself, it doesn't mean a whole lot, but the LDL particle means a whole lot. So the particle also has several different subclasses. So we have a total LDL particle. How many of you know how much that should be in our blood to say, well, that's okay. Of health. I don't think that's a fair question. So let's go. Let's go forward and let me show you things. I'm just filling out all of these stuff. So as as much as I can, I'll give you nutritional supplements that intervene at different levels of this whole thing. So let's talk about psyches and so keys are discovery. So the seven base seven countries studies studied in the 1950s it was a longitudinal study where they followed people over 25 years, and the countries that were involved the following, United States, Italy, Greece, Greece, including the island of Crete, they have Yugoslavia. So who was the president of Yugoslavia? Anybody? That's a trivial question. I'm going to guess Tito. Tito, very short. Tito, yeah, and benevolent Finland and Japan. Those are, those were big countries that were included, and he studied without any going further. How many of you could guess the countries that had the worst outcome in this study?

Unknown Speaker  44:37
Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  44:40
United States,

Unknown Speaker  44:41
United States, that's one of them, and one of the one other countries that is also part of

Speaker 2  44:49
it. Not Italy, no any other country beside the United States that was, it was, uh, Finland, probably from the vibe filing was the one, because Finland they were eating a lot of Do you know why Finland was included? What? What were they eating in Finland? Lot of fatty fish. A lot of fatty not fish, but they were eating a lot of

Unknown Speaker  45:22
fat. Fried Foods, body

Speaker 2  45:23
foods, cheese and milk and stuff that they have. So that is why they were they were having problem that we have. So there were a lot of people who were included in this study, 12,000 people, and there is male. So there's some sort of discrimination here. But didn't include any woman. They included the men 40 to 59 years old. So already you can see that the study is biased somehow, because the gender choice is not adequate from both rural and urban areas in the country. Follow up for 25 years, and they wanted to know their dietary intake via surveys and food sampling, physical activity, serum cholesterol levels, blood pressure, smoking habits and incidence and mortality from coronary artery disease. Their findings were that population with a high saturated fat intake. Finland us had higher serum cholesterol levels and higher rates of heart disease. Population with low saturated fat intake, Japan create low serum cholesterol, low rates of heart disease. Mediterranean diet benefits, so that's when they talk about Mediterranean diet. Diets in Greece and Italy were rich in vegetables, fruit, legumes, olive oil and fish. These diets were associated with low cardiovascular disease incidence despite moderate fat intake, because the fats were mainly unsaturated. In Japan, very low fat intake, mostly from fish, lowest rates of heart disease. Finland, high intake of dairy and saturated fat, highest rate of heart disease. Serum cholesterol as a predictor, strong predictor between average population cholesterol levels and heart disease mortality. So that's a conclusion right there, thinking that limited saturated fat intake replaced saturated fat with unsaturated fat, olive oil or nuts and fish oil adopted Mediterranean style diets. And so now we know why the Mediterranean diet is good and everybody is after it increased physical activity and avoid smoking, because they also looked at smoke as a contributing factor in part of the seven countries, because of our foundation for the dietary guidelines, it influenced the US and global dietary recommendation, particularly the low fat diet movement in the 1970s and 1980s so question is, do you guys know when the skim milk 2% 1% milk in the United States came in on a larger scale, Because the farmers had always done it, but to bring it to the market and make it official. It

Speaker 6  48:28
was when Congress made this, this motion, I think it was in 1950s 1955

Speaker 2  48:35
at 1974 that's when the FDA said that we should probably do, bring in some the skim milk. So you can see that some of the things that we did back then were based on some of these studies that were not quite to par in terms of design, controversy, critics argue keys ignored other countries data overseas are saturated fast, possibly overlooking the role of sugar, refined carbs and other lifestyle factors. Modern perspective, while the role of saturated fat is still debated. The overall emphasis on whole foods, plant based diets and healthy diet healthy fats remains widely accepted. So question that I have for you guys is why now we have in saturated fat like coconut oil and grapeseed oil, avocados? Now we having them in the market so much and in terms of recommendation that these are good part anybody?

Speaker 6  49:52
I don't know how did this come to be, because we know it, but I don't know how it became mainstream. Okay,

Speaker 2  49:58
so anybody knows why all of the sudden they say, oh, let's do avocado, let's do coconut oil, let's do all of that. It becomes a big thing in the market.

Speaker 5  50:10
Does it have to do trans fats? Removal of trans fats?

Speaker 2  50:13
Yeah, true, but they could do other things, but they're not recommending vegetable oil, such as peanut oil or canola oil and all of that, but they recommending saturated fat, such as coconut oil, being good for us and stuff

Speaker 8  50:30
because of the medium chain fatty acids,

Speaker 3  50:36
money, money based, money based, right?

Speaker 2  50:39
So so it's about observations, but the studies, I'm not quite sure who did the study, but there's something called the African paradox. So the Africans are observed at the time, when people did this, they said, Oh, fat is killing us, cholesterol is bad for us, and let's weed it out. We found out we did all of these, and still, people died of heart attack. The heart attack rate did not go down in developed countries, especially in the United States, and so people start questioning the validity of this diet, or these are fat that we've taken out of our diets. When people look at African they found out they eat a lot of saturated fat, palm oil, coconut oil, by eating all of that, and they did not have a heart attack. Back in the old days, for sure, they did not have a heart attack. So someone was thinking that these Africans are eating more be saturated fat, and they're not getting heart attack. Why not? Then they decided to see and they found out that when you eat the saturated fat like coconut oil and all, it actually make your large particle, LDL, that we're going to talk about larger instead of a small, dense particle that is detrimental to the coronary about mix the coronary artery disease and all of that. So that's when they've decided maybe we should bring it all this good fat that the Africans are eating. Let's bring it in our food too. So then they brought the coconut oil, the avocados and all of these fact that people are recommending these days,

Speaker 2  52:22
modern person will get that so now. Summary, you can see that United States high intake of red meat, dairy and processed foods. Saturated fat intake was high cholesterol levels, high heart disease mortality was high. Key notes of so modern, industrialized diet, with sedentary lifestyle, causes heart problem Finland also high dairy consumption, especially butter, very high saturated fat, very high cholesterol levels, highest heart disease mortality and highest coronary artery disease mortality diet reach in the saturated fat, and then Neverland. They have, you can read it, high, high. And then they have similar to the US. If you go to other countries, Italy, military, Mediterranean diet. They have moderate risk, and they have low mortality, then they bear protected if you look at Greece and Crete. Same thing here, they have low.

Speaker 2  54:14
So overall summary, some reason, that out of all of these big countries with the highest saturated fat intake.

Speaker 2  54:22
Ke. So conclusion is, we should do a saturated fat. We should do more olive oil. We should have fish now. Olive oil, if you look at it, are all olive oil created equal. Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  54:51
Anyone? What was, what was the question?

Unknown Speaker  54:55
Olive Oil created equal? No, they're not created equal? Yes,

Speaker 8  55:01
no, the first the first pass is usually the one with the highest empty acid on

Speaker 2  55:07
London. Yeah, the first pass is the the green one. That's the one that is good. But the time the olive oil transits through the ocean comes because they don't use it by they don't send it by plane, they put on the ship, and it comes all the way from Italy or other places to us. It's already rested, it's already stale. So some people are arguing perhaps we should transport the olive oil really fast and bring it to us, so then we can have the fresh olive oil that the Europeans and Mediterranean are eating that makes them healthy. So Dr Gundry is one of them who is promoting this heavily. He goes to Morocco, and he gets the olive oil from there, and he is distributing that to his constituents. I think, you know, some of us will have to learn that and plug into this kind of distributor, distributorships, Japan and Crete, how they know, etc. So, you know, the conclusion, so, recommendation, etcetera, you know, the end of that that led to the food pyramids. Because not only that, they said we should eat the plant based food, including the whole grains. So they change the food pyramid, they put whole grains at the base, and then we should eat more of that. So in the end, when we eat more carbohydrates, the more heart attack we had. So how does that work? How do we make cholesterol? What is the starting material to make cholesterol? Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  56:57
Isn't it fat?

Speaker 2  56:59
That's one so fat is one of them. So how do you call the process of converting fat into cholesterol,

Unknown Speaker  57:10
acetyl CoA? Is it? Is

Speaker 2  57:11
it? So acetyl CoA is the the product that is coming from the fatty acids. So how do you convert the fatty acids into acetyl CoA. What mechanism? How do we call it? That's the basic

Speaker 4  57:27
biochemistry, by the way, osis, beta oxidation,

Speaker 2  57:31
better oxidation, that's in better oxidation. So by better oxidation, will convert the fatty acids into the acetyl CoA. Now, whatever things go into acidic core, what? What else is converting to acidic core? Way, b5, b5, is the cofactor. Is that? But what? Whatever ingredient goes into acetyl CoA, and by what method we know fat, we get the fatty acid they're converting to acetyl COVID. They are the better oxidation. So why do you think diabetes? I mean diabetic patient have more cholesterol than anybody else. I what is the mechanism?

Speaker 6  58:28
Cellular resistance. They can absorb the cholesterol, no

Speaker 2  58:33
but so they have all the ingredients to make the cholesterol right, so they have glucose right, glucose metabolism. So what is the glucose metabolism? Called gluconeogenesis, glycolysis. We do the glycolysis that glycolysis takes the glucose through all the glycolysis pathways and leads to acetyl CoA. Then the acetyl CoA can go through the Krebs cycle and give us ATP. That's one way. But that same acetyl CoA is going to go into the cholesterol making mechanism, and that's proteins. Also some of them, they're converting to acetyl CoA. So we have the proteins, we have the fats, and we have the glucose that convert into acetyl CoA, and that acetyl CoA is going to go into cholesterol. So what is the rate limiting enzyme for cholesterol making?

Unknown Speaker  59:39
HMG CoA, really?

Speaker 2  59:41
HMG CoA. So the HMG CoA is reductive, is going to be very limiting exam. HMG COA reductase. Now, what is the catalyst for that? HMG COA reductase? What makes it produce more of the cholesterol for us,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:04
for Q 10, Anna,

Speaker 2  1:00:06
esulin. Esulin is a catalyst. So now you can see the diabetes. They have more glucose. Those diabetes, they have more esulin, the insulin resistance. Many of them now they have plenty of insulin, then that insulin is going to catalyze the HMG COA reductase, and that is going to convert the upline of Acetyl CoA comes down, and then that converts it directly into cholesterol. That's why the diabetics actually have more cholesterol than anybody else, because they have all the ingredients that is needed to make the cholesterol. So if we do the certain drugs, what do the certain drugs intervene? So

Unknown Speaker  1:01:04
the HMG COA

Speaker 2  1:01:06
starting drugs are blocking the HMG COA reductase. So if they do that, then what is the consequence of that? What is the problem that may arise if we're blocking the rate limiting enzyme. So then the cholesterol cannot be or upline cannot go into cholesterol,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:29
2q 10 deficiency.

Speaker 2  1:01:31
So that's one way. So cogitan deficiency, because the cogitan is made from one of the intermediates. And so when you have cookie 10 deficiency, what happens to the body that what? What is the

Speaker 6  1:01:46
what is going to do? Mitochondrial problems, fatigue,

Speaker 2  1:01:50
mitochondrial problem, fatigue, pain, all kinds of stuff that they will get, but you, you will be hard pressed that there are so many general practitioners who do give starting draws without giving any code Q 10 to anybody. So what is the reduced form of code Q 10? Code

Unknown Speaker  1:02:15
ubiquinone, ubiquitin.

Speaker 2  1:02:16
Ubiquinone is the reduced form. So if you want to be more efficient, then you can give your patient the Ubiquinol, and then combine the CO Q 10 with the Ubiquinol, and then we get enough of that. So in essence, all of us, anyone over 40, should take COVID 10 to help in many ways. So the question remains, if I block the really limiting enzyme, which is the HMG COA reductase, then what happens to the cholesterol making mechanisms blocked? So what else can happen to this individual who is taking the starting drug?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:09
Cognitive decline. They're

Speaker 2  1:03:11
not going to make a lot of cholesterol. About what will happen to them,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:17
cognitive decline, of hormone deficiency, hormone imbalances,

Speaker 2  1:03:20
yeah, we're going to have hormone imbalance, that we're going to have cognitive, cognitive decline, but there's a major problem that will happen. So if they're diabetics, for instance, what will happen to their diabetes

Unknown Speaker  1:03:37
gets worse. It

Speaker 2  1:03:38
gets worse, but diabetes will get worse, actually, probably 10 years ago or so, somebody wrote a paper in JAMA explaining that exactly that women who take statin drugs actually be at risk of developing diabetes. So what my observation has been that many of the patients who are diabetics, who are taking starting drugs, they require several medication to control their blood sugar, but not only on one anti diabetic medication, they're on three or four medication, and that even is not doing it because they're blocking the glucose from going where it needs to go naturally, and that glucose is backing up, so they're having worse diabetes outcome, but that is not taken into account, because nobody's studying this, but just giving them the starting drugs, and they're not looking at What is happening to their blood glucose. I look at the end product, which, okay, we did a great job. We reducing the LDL cholesterol. It's really great. But then in the end, we have more diabetes. Get

Speaker 1  1:04:52
every, every, every patient that's that's has a diabetic, or even pre diabetic, I get him, I get a any, I get a letter from the their insurance company, even though we don't take insurance, they should be on a statin. Correct every single that's the standard.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:10
That's the center, okay, yes,

Speaker 3  1:05:12
the veterans, the veterans community, same thing. That's what they do. That's that's all they do. They just put us on the statins.

Speaker 2  1:05:20
That's correct, and that's because people don't realize all the harm they're doing to be patient. That's why I said some of these things is malpractice, because if you know the mechanism, the correct pathway through all these metabolism of glucose and fat goes through. And if you're doing certain things, you have to realize what your actions are doing in terms of a patient outcome.

Speaker 3  1:05:50
They don't, you know, I'll just be honest, the doctors don't have time. The doctors at the VA, they're absolutely overwhelmed. They see so many patients every day. So they're just they and they don't, they don't. They can't follow up. They can't, they can't study this. They can't learn what we're learning right here, it's, it's absolutely sad.

Speaker 2  1:06:14
It is very sad, true. Many so. But you know, all these papers, they make us go through every hoops or maintenance, maintenance, or certification and all this nonsense when a simple CME such as this may be able to help, be the doctor, learn more and take better care of a patient. I mean, I was in an institution helping people all the diabetics, they have three or four medication that they're using, and they're all on a starting drug. By the way, people are not satisfied using the low dose starting drug. They give them the high dose. If you're diabetic, they give you 80 milligrams of Lipitor, right, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:06:59
Agree,

Speaker 2  1:07:00
which is not going to do anyone any good. So I think so the function of cholesterol in the body. We talked briefly about that cell membrane integrity. Cholesterol is essential structural component of the cell membrane. We know that, and it maintains the fluidity and the stability of the cell precursor to steroid hormone. We know that if we don't have that, then we cannot do anything. And it's a bile acid production, by the way. The cholesterol is made in the liver and it goes to the gallbladder and mixes with bile. Why does it do that? I

Speaker 2  1:07:46
I think I have a result in front of you so it misses it with bio for better digestion of fat or absorption of the dietary supplements, such as the fat soluble vitamins. But what allows the formation of the bile acids? What in the bio plays a major role in producing the bile acids? Anybody I

Speaker 2  1:08:24
we'll call them bile salts. The bile salts are key to making the bile acid that I use for absorption of fat in the body. Unfortunately, sometimes when the cholesterol gets to be bile, the bile us, the bio source, are missing. So if there's no bile salts to allow the mixing of the cholesterol with bile, what happens anybody I

Speaker 2  1:09:05
so the cholesterol will precipitate, and it precipitates and form stones. So that's how we get the gall stones. So if we have lack of balance bad salts and the cholesterol and bad cannot mix, then cholesterol precipitate and form stones, and that leads to cholecystitis. So when, when medical school, do school, and all these places we learn about cholecystitis, the cholecystitis is whose problem? Who gets more? Colicitous, Titus in the in the population,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:44
women, female.

Speaker 2  1:09:48
What are the characteristics? The Fat 40, the fat further, and 40, the Fs, yeah, before I call it, before F female. Fat further 40. So what is magical about that females fat further 40? What is happening to these women that is, they have hormone imbalance. If they have hormone imbalance, what hormones actually have been losing when they 40? I

Speaker 6  1:10:23
so you can better question is, what? What don't they lose when they're perimenopause? I mean, they lose a lot of hormones.

Unknown Speaker  1:10:29
They lose a lot of hormone that what a key hormone, that they're losing

Speaker 4  1:10:32
progesterone. They're losing their progesterone. Yeah, because you become estrogen the dominant.

Speaker 2  1:10:39
They become estrogen dominance. So when they have estrogen dominance and they have low progesterone, the body feels like I need to make that both hormone that they're lacking. And how do I make the hormones? We're going to increase the cholesterol, right? So we increase the cholesterol, and that part of that cholesterol goes to the bow, and because we have no bad source around, then the cholesterol cannot convert into the body the bad acid. If it doesn't, then it precipitates and from the stones, and the stones block the duct, the common bile duct, and then all that is sudden, they have cholecystitis. So that's why. So back in school, we were learning choline Cyrus in the the problem of female fat photo 40. We just memorize that mnemonic that we never really question. What is behind it? What? Why? Women? Why? What? What is happening to the woman that they're having this kind of situation, but that's clear what was happening and why they get that situation. Vitamin D synthesis, we talk about that brain and nervous system health. So the cholesterol is very important for the brain, so if we suppress it, then we're not getting a lot of brain function. That's why some people, by taking starting drugs, they become very foggy. They get foggy thinking. They cannot think straight. And so we have to take that into account. When people have Alzheimer's and all of that, we don't look at all the aspect of why they're having all these real these problems, we just have a demented but chances are, they're doing something, or we're doing something to them that may be causing the dementia. Lipid transport, so it helps carry the lipids from place to place. Cellular signaling, so they affect the signaling of the cells. They affect the immune cells as well. So the immune function is going to be dependent on the cholesterol, uh, embryonic development, again, all of these are very important functions. So if we decrease the LDL cholesterol, then we blocking a lot of body function that are necessary for the well being of the individuals. Structural component of lipoprotein, we have repaired damaged tissues, so it does help with that, hormonal regulations, etc, so you can see all the roles of the cholesterol. What does it do? LDL, cholesterol. So why cholesterol is important? Of course, I think we talked about that, and you can see, in terms of the lipoprotein we can talk about that. I've mentioned lipoproteins. We have the calorie micron. So what are the calorie microns? What? What do you what do you know about chiral microns? So

Speaker 2  1:13:49
it's here, so metal microns, they are the intestinal lipids, and it's made mostly of triglycerides, more than the collection has the apple B 48 so the car micron is combined with the APO B 48 so if I were to quiz you on this, I would say, Well, what is the APO protein that goes along with the calumacron? Then you will say the APO B 48 and what is the APO protein that goes along with LDL, cholesterol?

Unknown Speaker  1:14:27
Anybody? I said that before 100 apple b1 100. So the apple b1 100 is the one

Speaker 2  1:14:35
and you can see for the very low density lipoprotein is made in the liver. And again, it's the apple b1 100. That is the protein, the protein part, and then the IDL, the intermediate Density Lipoprotein, the apple b1 100. The apple b1 100 again. And if you would take the LDL cholesterol, Apple b1, 100, the HDL cholesterol, as you can see, the APO a one and a two, that is the transport protein. So it's good to know all of these things. I mean, that's what they grew that's on in medical school, to know all these stuff all the way down. So if you look at the sizes, it gives you the sizes. I'm not going to go into the symmetric of that, but if you look at the video later, you do have all the information in front of you. Then you can, if you want to go nitty gritty in in detail, you can get all the details, function of a triglycerides, all of these things I'm not going to go through wear tissue targets, adipose tissue, etc. You can go through that. They call macrons, what they do. It tells you exactly what they're doing. It tells you each one of the LDL intermediate you can see and HDL, you can see what their functions are. Importance of understanding lipoprotein function, cardiovascular risk, and we know the high LDL and low HDL will lead to cardiovascular disease, metabolic health. So therapeutic charges, starting the pcsk Nine, what the PCs canines are? What? How many of you know what they are?

Unknown Speaker  1:16:35
Anybody? Does anyone of you know a medication called Repatha.

Speaker 4  1:16:47
Yes, it's the receptor. It's the recycling of LDL in the liver. Yes.

Speaker 2  1:16:52
So what is Repatha? Do? You know, it's a PCS canine inhibitor. It is a PCS canine but what? What is the nature of that medication,

Speaker 4  1:17:05
the recycling of the LDL receptor on the surface of the cell.

Speaker 2  1:17:09
It's a it's a small gun, or is it a big gun? Is it a BB gun? Or is it big gun?

Speaker 4  1:17:18
Big gun just the price of it. It's probably a big gun.

Speaker 2  1:17:22
It's a big gun. Yes, the repair is actually a monoclonal antibody. And so every field that we have, they're having their own monoclonal antibodies. And cholesterol has at least three or four, I think, two of them that are popular, monoclonal antibodies and that monoclonal antibody, one of them is Repatha, which is the pcsk Nine inhibitor. So for me, if we can figure out a different way of reducing the cholesterol, why use a machine gun instead of using BB guns to do the job. That's my analogy. And allergy and immunology would do that too. We have so many drugs, monoclonal antibodies. We have the dupixent, the Zola, the all of those guys that we're bringing in to treat things that we can like hives or people have eczema, we're using these big guns in treating the patient with that, and they're very expensive. Then we say, well, the healthcare is expensive, but one shot is 1000 bucks. So how many years can we put a person on that? Believe it or not, there are patients who have been on these injections for years, 345, years, 10 years, they've been doing this injection, 1000 a pop. So you can imagine how much cost the stress is going to incur and distribute that on all of us in many ways. So for me, maybe we should think a different way, rather than bringing in the healthcare more of these expensive drugs that are not going to change basically anything at all, because they're not really targeting the underlying condition. And that's why we, who do functional medicine, integrative medicine, we have our place in this whole place to help the patient so they don't go be staff. They're not they're not looking at root cause, they're not looking at anything. They just become you have a problem. We have a cholesterol problem. Okay? We give you and we're not fractionating your cholesterol. We give you a starting drug, or we give you a pcsk Nine inhibitor. You have a fibrates and niacin. So niacin, anybody can tell me, what are the usage of niacin, vitamin b3, any

Speaker 6  1:20:03
it can help improve NAD levels. It lowers triglycerides. It can improve HDL. It gives you a good pump in the gym. It improves blood flow, right? And how's this? Vasodilation. That's

Speaker 2  1:20:19
good. So niacin actually does a whole lot. So there was a Canadian psychiatrist, Dr Abraham Hoffer, who did a lot of studies on people with mental issues, psychosis, depression, anxiety, bipolar, name it, and he gave them a high dose niacin with high dose vitamin C. And what is high dose vitamin C? How many of you know how much Linus Pauling was taking in terms of vitamin C? 30 grams. That's a lot. He was taking a lot, but not that much. Yeah, 30 grams. He was taking 30 grams. I think he was taking 15,015 gram or so. But so I always joke that if he takes 15 gram or 30 grams, maybe, and he got two Nobel Prizes. Maybe if I take 5000 I would do a little better. But that's why I take vitamin C every day. Myself, I take probably 5000 a day, but if you combine the vitamin C with a niacin, you get a better result for many of the depression, anxiety and everything else. According to Doctor Abraham, author and his studies, he published them. He has a book on Amazon for those of you who are interested in mental health. I think that would be a good reference. Very, very nice. So niacin is a big sum of the condition that we're going to talk about and require niacin. Absolutely, because if you don't have niacin, you may not use starting to treat those conditions, especially if you have a familiar kind of hypercholesterolemia due to lipoprotein a, LPA, if you have yes,

Speaker 5  1:22:21
no, I'm sorry. Sorry to interrupt Doctor Cano, um, two questions. Dosing on the niacin daily 100.

Speaker 2  1:22:30
The niacin is 650 milligram, but you have to double it up so it would be probably anywhere 1200 1500 milligram a day to say that you do a good job.

Speaker 5  1:22:43
And then, when combined with the ascorbic acid, does that affect triglyceride levels?

Speaker 2  1:22:51
Yeah, you should, because the niacin alone will affect not the triglyceride, but it affects the LPA. So the lipoprotein A, which is one of the genetic markers, so it's familiar. So some people have that, and if you have that, starting drugs will not touch that. So niacin would be the one that would take care of it. That

Speaker 5  1:23:16
just seems really high dose of the niacin. It's got to be non flush, or something, right? Otherwise? Well, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:23:22
but non flash, so they do, do the non flush. For instance, there are companies that I know, I'm not going to name them now, but the company that do the non flush, nice in, I

Speaker 3  1:23:32
think it was Dr Hopper, if I remember correctly, yeah, yeah. With alcoholism, they, they, they started to tackle the alcoholism with the supplements. And Bill, you know, the main whatever for alcohol, anonymous, he created a board full of doctors, and he finally came to the board about the supplements, and the board said no, because they were quote, unquote doctors. And what they found out is the niacin and the vitamin C was absolutely helping the alcoholics, you know, overcome what they were going through. And but big pharma kind of step well, they just stepped in the way,

Speaker 2  1:24:25
correct? Yeah, as usual, as always, right? Is simple and natural, and it's working. We don't want that. Let's just cut it out. Let's create big gun. Let's create PCS canine, agree? So were there recent studies

Speaker 5  1:24:43
suggesting some problems with too much niacin, and they were talking around 500 milligrams. I don't remember what the problem was, but there was some recent papers talking about being careful with niacin. I did flushing, the flushing, right? It's not the flush. That's not a problem. There was no some problem to actually cut the dose down. Flushing is not a serious problem. Got you? Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:25:14
I'm not sure. So Mr. McConnell, who sometimes attends this meeting, he has a supplement line for chronic kidney failure that he uses niacin to treat, and he has all kind of studies proving that the niacin actually helps to revert The chronic kidney disease, I think that we should look into it, because for those of you who have patient who are having kidney failure, may be a good way to to help them out. And I think Mr. McConnell would be more than delighted to help you with some of these information that he has that he's using all the apple so I give you all the information about the April proteins. They're here. I'm not going to go into detail, but there's a lot of them. It's not just April B and A one and all that we have many, many more, and they have the genetic, what they're located on the gene, the chromosome, the number, everything is given to you, so you can have access to it, and you can go through it step by step, summary of the hippo lip protein functions and genetic impact. They help with dyslipidemia, the first sclerosis, the neurodegenerative disease, the autoimmune conditions, they create all kinds of things they're lacking, Alzheimer's. So what is the Apple protein that is involved in Alzheimer's? Anybody? April, E, April E, what? Four, April e4, the April e4, here, a Leo can lead to Alzheimer's risk. So if we have that, and we can measure that differently, would help people, if we have someone who is having Alzheimer problem, who can test that and see what he is with that cholesterol based measures. So we do have, when we do the lipoprotein fractionation test, we get all these measurements via ldsc, and then we have the different classes and all of that subclasses, but they don't give us these subclasses in the big test, total number L particle that I was telling you about, if it's too high, it carries a cardiac risk. HDL particles, they're low, they carry a cardiac risk. So you want this one to be high. You want this one to be low and intermediate. One also carry a cardiac risk. So the particle size matters, hippopotam, meaning babies, or you can go through this. I'm not going to go into the detail, because I want to get to the so lipoprotein A that I was telling you about, the one that niacin will do good by, is this one and that genetically determined LDL, like particle with prothrombotic properties, high levels, more than 50 milligram per deciliter, or 125 nano more per liter, carries a very high cardiac risk and stroke. So if someone is has genetic marker for this, you want to be aggressive. And the treatment is niacin, because starting and all these are weapons, will not touch it.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:04
Clinical consequence of hyper homocysteine. Yeah, so homocysteine oxidized. LDL, so what? How do we get oxidized? LDL, let's talk about that quick. So

Unknown Speaker  1:29:24
anybody. So we have

Speaker 6  1:29:29
eating the fried oils, the seed oils, I think that drives some of it, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:29:34
so we have the reactive oxygen species, like superoxide and those can combine with the LDL and then oxidize it through the APO protein, so we can have a lipid peroxidation, and that also can oxidize the LDL. Once the LDL is oxidized, how does that cause damage? How does the oxidized LDL cause damage? Can it do it by itself, or does it need any help?

Unknown Speaker  1:30:15
Inflammatory? Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:30:17
so it is inflammatory, but by itself, it doesn't do a whole lot. So in order for the oxidized LDL to do something damage, we have to have homocysteine around. So what is a homocysteine?

Speaker 9  1:30:39
It's a secondary risk factor for heart disease, stroke and dementia. True. What is it

Speaker 6  1:30:45
that's true? Asking, so it's a it's a byproduct. It's a poor methylation is what

Speaker 2  1:30:54
it is, a byproduct of metabolism, and it's an amino acid so that homocysteine. What does it do to our arteries?

Unknown Speaker  1:31:06
Damage system.

Speaker 2  1:31:07
So a circulation goes to damage. Poke holes in the arteries. So when you poke holes in the was then the oxidized LDL, what we call the small, dense particle. LDL, cannot pass those holes the largest in and form inflammation. And when we have that inflammation, anytime we have an inflammation the body, who is going to be the fireman your LDL, what are the firemen that came in to try to extinguish the fire. Cholesterol, no, no, no, what? What are the firemen? So we have the inflammation, uh, somebody comes in there to try to extinguish it. And who is that? Fish oil. Well, you guys are going fish oil, yeah, fish oil helps with the inflammation. True, there are some macrophage, macrophage, yes, so monocytes are going to come in the area and they become macrophage, right? The monocytes migrate from the blood, and they're going to be area of damage, and they become the macrophage. So those macrophage are going to eat the cholesterol remnants, or they're going to eat those oxidized LDL that is lodged into the holes that the homocysteine has created. So they eat so much of these cholesterol remnants, they become obese, and they wallow there. They cannot move anymore, but die. So that form more inflammation. So however, macrophage come in to try to clean it up, and they're forming more inflammation. So as time goes by, we're getting a cemetery of these white blood cells. And that symmetry of the white blood cells or macrophage is what we call plaque. So that plaque, when it forms, it can obstruct the vessel lumen. And if blood is not going to be heart, then we get a heart attack. And if the blood is not going to be brain, the stroke. So that's how these things happen. So it's important then to know that we should not have a high homocysteine level. Now, people who do test, the general practitioners who do the cholesterol test and the general cholesterol hardly ever test the homocysteine. Very rarely you will see someone test for homocysteine, but it's a very key part of the cholesterol test, because if we have cholesterol dI by itself, it doesn't do a whole lot, it can cause a floodation. But if we have homocysteine around, we need to know that that homocysteine is doing damage. And if it's high, that's what it does. So what causes homocysteine to be high? Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  1:34:02
MTHFR mutation. MTHFR

Speaker 2  1:34:05
mutation. So when you get the mutation, what happens? You will have low folate. You have low folate and low b6, low folate and B. So if you have the mutation of the MTHFR, then your folic acid is not going to be methylated. You're not going to get the b2 of and if you don't have those, then the homocysteine is going to go up. So there's a relationship between these three and one home assistant goes up and we're having all these problems. What do we give if we have MTHFR mutation, what do we give the patient to make things better?

Speaker 6  1:34:51
You give them a higher dose methyl folate. We give

Speaker 2  1:34:55
them high dose methyl folate and high dose trimethylglycine

Speaker 6  1:34:59
and B 12, methylated B 12

Speaker 2  1:35:02
and me for cobalamin. So we're going to give a methylcobalamin. Now, do we have any methylcobalamin injection? Yeah, yes, yes, no, we don't have that so, but currently, the B 12 injection that we have is cyanocobalamin. No, no, no, I can get methylcobalamin. I've never seen that. Oh, I can get it for you. Okay, where do you get it from?

Unknown Speaker  1:35:29
Okay, many pharmacies, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:35:31
well, I haven't been making you don't buy just the general one, yeah. Okay, so if they make it like compounded, that's possible. But otherwise, then it's you don't you don't find that. So it's a very important to to check if somebody is having problems and having a collectors high start. It will be nice to check the MTHFR mutation, and it's a test that many companies offer now that you do the MPH mutation. If you have a mutation, then you give them. But luckily, though, currently all the professional supplement companies, they're offering the methylated B vitamin and the methylated folic acid, so they're not doing the regular one as before.

Speaker 6  1:36:21
You also want to give them the methyl donor trimethylglycine. Yeah, you

Speaker 2  1:36:25
give them trimethylglycine. So what is the other name for trimethylglycine? Betaine, anhydrous betaine betaine. So you do betaine, you can give them that trimethylglycine. So there is a, actually a digestive enzyme that contain betaine and HCl. Maybe some of you use it for people who are having irritable bowel syndrome and they're having all these problems, you can give them methane

Unknown Speaker  1:36:55
hydrochloride,

Unknown Speaker  1:36:58
yeah, methane hydrochloride,

Speaker 2  1:37:01
yes, you give them the betancia, but you give them also the digestive enzymes with the betaine,

Unknown Speaker  1:37:10
betaine hydrochloride.

Speaker 2  1:37:13
Yes, we got you. So this is a sample of a lipoprotein fractionation test report and interpretation. So when you order this test, and luckily, though many of the important labs in the US do this test, so everybody has access to it, maybe we should run a campaign for the general practitioners to do this test, because it's important for them to know the difference between the general cholesterol test and the lipoprotein fractionation test. I always try to educate the patient that I see to go to their primary care physician and ask them to do the lipoprotein fractionation test before they put them on starting drugs, or any of the crazy drugs that they do. So this will give you the markers, HDL cholesterol. Now the dose they say that should be less than 100. So this patient 95 milligram per deciliter is normal, but let's look at his LDL particles. And Stephen will say that an LDL particle of 1600 normally should be less than 1000 animal per per liter that is considered high particle number, and when you see that, it carries a risk, cardiac risk. Now you have a small density, your small dense lipoprotein, I mean the small dense LDL, and that small dense LDL when you eat carbohydrates and other things, the trans fats and all the other foods that we have, a processed food, then you make more of this, a small, dense LDL. When you make that is a 45 milligram. That's a kind of high, it should be less than 35 and that also has a cardiac risk, and that's the one that actually goes into the holes that homocysteine is creating. And that's what the macrophage come in and eat and cause the plaque on the HDL side, you have a total HDL cholesterol, 42 milligram. It should be be minimum that you can do higher. You have to be higher than 50. That would be nice. So if, if it's greater than 50, it's a low, protective HDL HDF particle. The particle is small. Can

Unknown Speaker  1:40:05
we get these people to be muted here?

Speaker 2  1:40:09
Yeah, if a particle is small, then it has borderline low HDL particle count. April B, we talked about that. That number, if it's 115 milligram less than 90, it has a high, elevated atherogenic particle. So if your APO a one, which is combined with the HDL, is 120 milligram deciliter, it should be greater by 130 that is slightly low. April B, apo A, one ratio, like we do the LDL, HDL, cholesterol ratio, but do that also for the protein carriers, and that ratio is 0.96 is the high. Ideally should be less than 0.8 so for this patient, we do have a lot of markers that predisposes the patient to cardiac risk. So high ratio, high risk, LPA, Bill, protein, a that we talked about, 140 that is high. It should be less than 75 nano more per liter, and that is very high cardiac risk. If we see that differently, we have to give them triple dose of niacin and the stuff and try to help them out. Quick LDS, size, small protein, B, pattern, a, etc. So you can see afrogenic particle types. So this is one patient who has these numbers. So for this patient with the 1600 nanomole per L, which is this should be less than 1000 what are we going to do for him or her.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:07
Anybody, lifestyle, lifestyle changes, offender,

Speaker 2  1:42:10
Patel, somebody say, let's give him facial that can't do much, but that will not do much now. So if we have that, maybe

Unknown Speaker  1:42:21
I didn't

Speaker 2  1:42:23
hear. How about fiber? Well, given fiber. So you can go be fiber line, give them stuff. But what else? So, what is making this particle problem. So what should we do to tackle the underlining problem? That's why I talked to you about glycolysis and all of these other things. So these people have this type of particle size. It means that probably they're doing a lot of carbohydrates. They're obese. They have that, so we have to clean it up. So how do we clean it up? Miles? Yeah, we can do that. I think, I really think we should maybe look at the diet and recommend low. I mean, maybe the Mediterranean diet, right?

Speaker 6  1:43:28
That's why we're talking earlier about how to get these fats intracellular. Like, how do we do that? Which one the fast the LDL particle? How do we get this intracellular? Because I had been running this panel on children pediatrics, I never see have high LDL particle count, pretty much to a rule. I've had one there's very obese, but most children will have very low LDL particle counts. We're talking like 400 or 500 it seems to be, you said, a problem with age. So how do we bring back that youthful LDL pattern again.

Speaker 2  1:44:03
Yeah. So you have to use all the material that we have. You have to give them a serial carnitine. You have to give them all of those things that will help in the cholesterol metabolism. You have to give them Alpha Lipoic Acid. You have to give them all these nutritional supplements that can help the glucose metabolism. So if you did that, also correct their gut. You have to give them pro body pre body digestive enzyme, make sure the gut is functioning very well, so then they can absorb the nutrients better. All of these things are part of it, and also you have to limit the carbohydrate intake. Now, one of the things that we didn't see here is triglycerides. The triglycerides recently, they did an article that showed that actually that carries a high cardiac risk, which makes sense. So if somebody is eating a lot of how do we know they have what causes the high triglycerides? In most cases, carbohydrates, carbohydrate. They're eating a lot of carbohydrate. They have sugar intake, high sugar intake, and that is leading to the high triglycerides. So it's important to control the sugar and take the carbohydrate intake limit that. That would help them tremendously. So if we see this type of particle size, we have to go deeper, give them nutritional supplements, clean their diet, even detoxify them. Clean them out, because sometimes they cannot metabolize because they're full of toxins. Clean them out, and then we look at all the aspects, check their hormones.

Speaker 6  1:45:48
Okay, we need to mute some people here. Can we mute? Can we have some active co host here? Meet these people.

Speaker 2  1:45:56
So we have to do all of these things to get this patient better, because we cannot just give them starting and all of us and expect them to do work. We have to go deeper. But sometimes the problem is the patient themselves, because they don't want to change. Some of these patients that have been eating the same diet for 200 years, and you tell them, hey, don't do bread. They say, Well, who are you? I cannot survive without bread. I'm going to eat my bread. I will pray for it and I eat it. So that's what happens to many of these patients. So it's important to at least work with them and help them out, reduce give them a good Mediterranean diet and some other diet. I have a prophet Daniel's diet that I studied everybody on. Do you know? Do you guys know what the prophet Daniel diet is? I

Unknown Speaker  1:46:50
didn't catch that diet. What was it called?

Speaker 2  1:46:52
The Prophet Daniels diet? Never heard of it. Yeah, that's my the thing that I created, Prophet Daniels diet. So if you look at the Bible, Daniel chapter one through, probably end of chapter one, where Daniel and his companions were recruited by Nebuchadnezzar to serve in his palace. So Daniel and his three companions, he pleaded. But first of all, they were supposed to eat the king's diet. And you can imagine what the king's diet was, a lot of carbohydrate, the goodies, the cookies and the cakes and everything else, and wine, things that they got to eat. And Daniel said, no, no, no, we don't want the king's diet. Please give us vegetable and water. So vegetable and water, the chief unique, say, Hey, do you want the king to kill me? He said, to give you his diet. And Daniel pleaded, pleaded behind the doors the assistant unique, okay, Daniel, you got your wish. I'm going to give you one month. If you don't do well, you eat the king's diet. So he start giving them vegetable and water at the end of the month. Actually, Daniel and his companions were the most fit. They have more muscle. They have more intellect than all the other people who ate the king's diet. I call that the first clinical trial, King's diet versus vegetable and water. So it's important to eat the vegetable and water initially. If you have patients, you can try them and say, Hey, eat a lot of vegetable and water, cruciferous vegetables, plenty. Can mix it with a little protein here, and that they can lose their weight that gives them confidence to go forward with their weight loss. And that has been successful for some of my patients, where I put them on the Prophet Daniels diet. I think we have gone far, many of these things. So functional medicine approaches. We can give them low glycemic, like I said, low glycemic diet, anti inflammatory diet. So if you want to give them potatoes, what potatoes? You give them sweet potato. If I love potatoes, we give them sweet potatoes. And which sweet potato would be the best

Unknown Speaker  1:49:27
African

Speaker 2  1:49:30
that's a good one. Well, there's African yams. How many of you know the African yam

Speaker 10  1:49:35
you told us when we were talking about vegetables? More than, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:49:43
the African yams. You can use that because the African yam, the giant have have, you guys, if you don't know, go to Google, put in African yam. It's a big, giant yam. That's why we get progesterone from, by the way. So if you see the Ghana yams, so you fried, is a little bitter, just like progesterone. So when we do the progesterone extract, we call it yam X, Y, yam extract, those African yams can give you the progesterone So in essence, if you eat the African yam that has low glycemic index, actually you can lose weight. So I put some people in the African yam diet. If in Africa, I tell them, hey, go buy yourself a lot of yams. Eat them every day and see how you do. And vegetables, plenty of vegetables. What about here in terms of sweet potatoes? What is the best sweet potatoes? Maybe some of you should try it. The best sweet potato that I found is the Japanese sweet potatoes. That Japanese sweet potato I see the purple one, purple skin, and it's a white inside. You fry them, bake them, melt. They taste so good. So these are things that people can do, eliminate trans fats and refine the carbs. We'll talk about that omega three. So get to give them some fish oil, increase fiber. They put flax seed here. I don't like that, because flax seed on my list, my bad list is estrogenic, and so I tend to do the estrogen free lifestyle, and the estrogen free lifestyle, exclude the flax seed, psyllium husky, can do that. That's fine. And plant steroids and standards. You can do all of those that will help in this patient, supplements that we need. Remember, the niacin I said we can do anywhere up to 1500 if you want high dose. So you can do the high dose niacin, that would be good. And the Omega three, two to four grams a day, Berberine, you can do that. And then curcumin, which is anti inflammatory, can do that as well. And magnesium and coach you 10 that we talked about. So magnesium is very important, because in the US, magnesium deficiency is a big problem. So supplementing everybody for me, people come to my clinic. I give them some magnesium. I give them two sorts of magnesium, maybe having constipation. I give them magnesium and vitamin C buffer, ascorbic acid. It helps them tremendously. And they go, they don't need a lot of medication, MiraLAX and everything else that we give them. So those are the major things that we're going to talk about. So I think in the interest of time, I'm going to stop here. Anybody has questions, I can try to answer those questions, and then we'll go from there, but you have the rest of the presentation. I think I put it all together, a lot of information that you can glean from here, and that will help you at least understand the cholesterol problem that we have in this country. You

Speaker 6  1:53:05
know, I'm gonna start using this acetyl CoA i or a acetyl carnitine. You said, yes, the dose you take for this,

Speaker 2  1:53:16
it's a 500 milligrams. Okay, I'm gonna start

Speaker 6  1:53:19
doing that, because I need something that can help shuttle the lipids into the cells. I think this is something that we need to try to do. We

Unknown Speaker  1:53:27
all need to do that. So, yes, go ahead.

Speaker 10  1:53:33
I was recommended to do that. And then I started reading all this stuff about people. You know how statistics are. They can be made to say anything. But they said that people, they found that the people were taking that 500 milligrams of that was were having more problems and dying. The death rate was up with people were saying, is that a bunch of baloney? Or which one? Which? Which the carnitine? The A carnitine,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:01
I've never heard anything like that. I never heard

Speaker 10  1:54:05
probably just one of those internet things that you know is wrong, but I kept reading it

Speaker 2  1:54:12
over. And the sources matter, though. So for me, if you get it from a reputable company, they are maybe better than getting from Walmart. No, I

Speaker 10  1:54:23
was getting it from a good company, a real, very good company. I can't remember the name, but it's a big name, and it's, it's a good company, but I just chickened out. So basically, and you didn't mention cinnamon for getting rid of

Speaker 2  1:54:39
cinnamon extract, not cinnamon itself, right? Oh, I'm doing

Speaker 10  1:54:42
quarter teaspoon of tea. Have been for years my my triglycerides. And I told some woman that that was asking me, because hers were high in a month, hers came down with just a quarter teaspoon a day. I throw it in my my smoothies.

Speaker 2  1:55:00
Okay. I personally recommend the cinnamon extract for glycemic control. It works well. It's good. Yes, I didn't

Speaker 9  1:55:11
hear you discuss toco trienals for the preventing the oxidation of LDL.

Speaker 2  1:55:17
Yeah, that's a good idea. Yeah. So you do the vitamin E tocopheros. And so there are some companies that give you everything. They give you the three forms of vitamin E,

Speaker 9  1:55:33
and those are the one that are better. I really don't think that it will be good to take only one form. So the tocotrienols should be taken by themselves, not mixed with tocopherols, but it will help prevent the oxidation of LDL. And is that the bad issue with the LDL? Is it still bad, even if it's not oxidized? Or is it oxidation is a problem.

Speaker 2  1:56:03
If it's not oxidized, it's great. So if you can prevent it from oxidation. Like to put train, you can do fine with it. No problem. Okay, thank you. Sure. Just

Speaker 4  1:56:14
to add to that, one of the better ones also is the Gamma Delta type of tocotrienols to use, yes, right? So that's more cardiovascular protective. And to answer the question about carnitine and cardiovascular problems, the one that I know about is the interaction, or the conversion of this one to TMAO, because carnitine actually is metabolized by your gut bacteria into tri methyl amine, which is then now transported to the liver to form TMAO, which is basically, again, cardiovascular irritant. So that's the only one that I can hear that you should check before going into high dose carnitine. And to classify carnitines, I said l carnitine is one that's better for neurological problems, and plain l carnitine is the one for the non neurological functions. Yeah, great.

Speaker 2  1:57:05
Thank you. That's that. Yeah, yeah, definitely. I take the acid carnitine for myself because I don't want to create any problem where there's none.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:16
So Doctor panel, there's some. Oh, go ahead, do it.

Speaker 6  1:57:20
I was gonna let me share my screen. I'll show you the trend of my labs over the past year and how I've used I use the forbidden fruit to to lower my lipids. So

Unknown Speaker  1:57:35
do you want me to stop swearing? Yeah. Okay, good.

Speaker 6  1:57:40
Show you. Okay. So here's my lipids. They've been very high. My LDL particle was like 1624, this was back in 2023 it was still high, about 2000 very high. I texted with different labs, like vibrant, and it was like, still very high. So I used the forbidden fruit of growth hormone, human growth hormone, three units, and I ran it for about eight months. And this is the lowest number I've ever been able to achieve. Doing this, I got my LDL, P down to 1200 My tribster has always been good. And you see my physique, I'm very lean. I'm an athletic individual, very good diet.

Speaker 2  1:58:16
Do you do you have any familiar one like your LPA? How's your LPA level always negative.

Speaker 6  1:58:21
All my family members, my LPA is always negative, all my family members and myself, all right, and is my my insulin resistance got worse on the growth hormone. I went up to 42 typically, I'm always less than 25 my fasting insulin is like two or three. It actually went up to like seven on the growth hormone. So my lipids got better, my insulin resistance got worse. And what do you think of that?

Speaker 4  1:58:49
I think that's one of the effect of growth hormones. It's actually one of the chronic complications of that is the formation of diabetes, because it actually worsens insulin and sensitivity. I think, could that be because you're using what low doses of it? Oh,

Speaker 6  1:59:05
no, three units was like, is one milligram is not really a low dose.

Speaker 4  1:59:10
But, yeah, if you look at it, I have a lot of patients who are in growth hormone. This has issues with glucose metabolism eventually.

Speaker 6  1:59:19
So what I was trying to make my theory is like, Can we reverse us to a younger level? Well, because the children's their lipids are so low, I'm telling you, LDL particle like 300 400 500 super high growth hormone levels. So I think it has something to do with their youthful hormones. Levels are very good always.

Speaker 2  1:59:41
So have you tried black l arginine by itself and certainly together, instead of just the growth hormone that you're doing? Well, yes,

Speaker 6  1:59:51
I used those in the past as nixtric oxide precursors for the pump in the gym. Okay?

Speaker 4  2:00:01
I noticed in the presentation of the NMR lip of profile, it is not age specific. So it's just a one specific chart, which I think in the future, they should probably do an age specific classification for that. I mean, that's just me. I'm using it all the time. There's just no differentiation, great,

Speaker 2  2:00:21
yeah, because these people, I don't know who the advisors are, and I don't know who is guiding them, but many of them come up with this test, and they start doing it, and it works. They get people to do it, and they're not actually improving on it. That's my feeling. So it may be good for people to suggest to them that this is what we finding, and maybe you can change your test composition and make it better. As time goes by, nothing stays static, things that move forward, and we should probably improve on some of the test that we have, we don't do that. For instance, when we do the estrogen metabolites through urine, I have found out that that is quite inaccurate. However, that's what people stick by. When we were doing the blood test by some other companies, it gave us a better result. And now they made it disappear because the competition is doing the urine test, and they went to the urine test instead of continuing the blood test that was more accurate. So the labs, they just follow, you know, like they follow whoever is making more money or whatever, who is getting more press, and they go that direction. And it doesn't mean it's important, it's good for the patients. Okay, we I've been fighting to try to get the estrogen metabolized by by blood, but nobody's listening to me. I have no power. So

Speaker 6  2:02:04
I guess when the lipids are very high. Do you like Ezetimibe?

Speaker 2  2:02:10
Yeah, that works. It's okay, yeah, low side effect profile I found, yeah, there's a low side effect. So you can do that. Yeah,

Speaker 6  2:02:20
I'll do that. I've done red yeast rice as well, and it does work to some degree.

Speaker 2  2:02:27
But remember, if, if your LDL, you don't have, if you look at your particle size alone, it may not be sufficient. You have to look at your small dense particle. So how much is your small dense particle?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:41
I mean, it wasn't, I mean, one time.

Speaker 2  2:02:43
But if your small dense particle is good, then maybe you don't have to worry much about the whole particle size, because the smart dense particle is the one that is aprogenic that cause trouble. I mean, yeah, but

Speaker 6  2:02:58
when I'm pushing an LDL p of 2000 I do get concerned like so that's

Speaker 2  2:03:02
high, but how much is out of that is your small, dense particle?

Unknown Speaker  2:03:07
At one time, it was quite high. It was 642,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:10
right? And now to normal. Now

Speaker 6  2:03:13
it's 441, it mean it's still on the higher end. Again, children, small LDL particles 90 or below. It's very low.

Speaker 2  2:03:21
Well, yeah, but you don't. Cannot compare ourselves with them, though, unless

Speaker 6  2:03:25
they don't have atherosclerosis, they don't have heart attacks. So I want to preserve that. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:03:33
so for that, I mean, I really would do everything that I said, probably do a lot more those nutrients and stuff and see how you can correct that. Maybe it would work better. Yeah, yeah, okay, go ahead.

Speaker 4  2:03:59
Oh, no, no. I just, I just want to state a study there that the bigger driver of small dense LDL in relation to it being significant, is the LDL particle number. So for example, if you have a high, small dense LDL and you have a normal LDL particle number, that small dense LDL really does not have that much clinical significance. So really, the driver, and this is a study that I can send you, the driver of really oxidized oxidation is coming from the LDL particle

Speaker 2  2:04:33
number, yeah, the particle size, number, number, number, yeah, particles, the particle, particle number itself.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:42
It's the overall traffic in the arteries,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:45
right, right? That's right. Go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:51
Yeah, we've been using grapefruit seed extract, and we seem to have some pretty good success with that lowering total cholesterol, the LDL, I don't know about the particle sizes. Any experience with that?

Unknown Speaker  2:05:07
You said grape fruit, grape seed extract.

Speaker 6  2:05:11
We can't hear you anymore. Yeah. You got them from Pamela Smith. She always says something like, of that nature, yeah. Grape Seed, yeah, and

Speaker 1  2:05:22
of course, he's not here. He's not on with us tonight, our beloved doctor, halasa and his

Speaker 2  2:05:28
the grape seed extract is aromatic inhibitor. Do you guys know that? Right? I

Unknown Speaker  2:05:35
didn't know that. So

Speaker 2  2:05:36
big grape seed extract is an aromatic inhibitor. So how does that reduce your particle size? I'm not sure how that works, but if you have, let me just remind if you have too much estrogen that make your insulin go up, if your insulin is a catalyst for making cholesterol, then certainly reducing the estrogens may improve your cholesterol, your cholesterol numbers. That's another way, if you blocking the aroma taste, and you're not making converting testosterone to estrogen, maybe Stefan, that's something you can do if you blocking your testosterone from converting to estrogen, and you don't have a lot of estrogen in you, and you're not increasing your insulin, so if you don't have too much insulin, then you're not going to convert your hm UK reductase. When I started off, I said the catalyst is insulin. If you don't have much of insulin around, then you're not going to make all this cholesterol down the hill. And if you're not making that, perhaps your particle size will be lower. That is something that I can think I can see the connection.

Speaker 1  2:07:08
Okay, well, you know, at our ammg group, there's a whole cadre of folks who are against aromatase inhibitors, you know, in any shape or form. And one of the claims is that it that's a way to raise HDL cholesterol is to HDL or

Speaker 2  2:07:28
LDL, HDL. Oh, okay, so why? I mean, I personally don't see that in patients. I don't see them increasing their cholesterol at all when we block their where we use aromatase inhibitors?

Speaker 1  2:07:48
Yeah, we have, we have knocked down, drag out fights, you know, just about every meeting because of this. So, so maybe I can get the one of the proponents to come on and give his and tell

Speaker 2  2:08:02
us, because I don't see it. I don't see why aromatase inhibitors will cause cholesterol problems. I really don't see that. And will be important to look at the whole picture, though, in terms of estrogen dominance and how that affects insulin, and how that affects cholesterol, how that affects all the stuff. And that we see the

Speaker 1  2:08:30
one of the doctors there, the John Camarillo, his his goals for males is a total testosterone of 2000 and an estradiol of 150

Unknown Speaker  2:08:42
that I will not do that. I don't agree that.

Speaker 1  2:08:46
Just reporting that, you know, you know what we've heard over the last couple of years. When you get

Speaker 2  2:08:53
that, you can get police, a team here, rubric Vera, you can, you can jack up all your hemoglobin. To, I don't know how much?

Speaker 6  2:09:05
Yeah, so take a look at my screen here. So I did a study for us all. I compared vibrant to lab core at the same day, I drew this blood at the same time in October 10, 2024, to compare the two different type of lipid panels that these two companies do so vibrant, they won't do like a lipid particle count, but they will look at the small, dense LDL. So they do this SD, LDL particle, it'll give me this number, and then lab core will give me a different number. So the vibrant always put me like within range. So it made me happier to do vibrant than lab core lab for makes me unhappy. It gives me a lot of rent.

Speaker 2  2:09:47
LPA also is very low, so less than seven right here. Look at that.

Speaker 6  2:09:51
Oh yeah, I've always been like that. It's good. It's lucky. Somebody asked

Speaker 2  2:09:55
in the chat, how do you treat the LPA? And that's what I told you about niacin. So if you have high LPA, then you have to do high dose niacin to try to treat it. And that's the best treatment, by the way,

Speaker 6  2:10:08
right? And then having a homocysteine, my optimal reference range for homocysteine is like three to eight, and above that, I'm concerned that they have problems. What do you think? Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:10:21
if home assistant is, well, it can go a little higher than that. If it's like eight to nine, that's okay, but if you get to 11 and stuff like that, it's getting high.

Speaker 6  2:10:32
You definitely have a problem. Then triglycerides, I like to see triglycerides between 30 and maybe 80 tops, maybe 90 above that, they have a problem with eating too much carbs, correct, right? And then for April B, I like to see it below 80, if possible. Now, when I said, you

Speaker 2  2:10:52
know, it has to be less than 80. So if you go over 80, and that's the DI, I mean the result that I showed you, I give you the numbers and show that should be less than 80. So if you over that, then that's not good.

Speaker 6  2:11:06
And yeah, mine has been over 80 a couple times. So I've not always been happy with my able B, but this test was the first time I've gotten a score of 78 when I was taking the growth hormone level at the three units growth hormone. So take that for what you will. And besides that, my HDL has always been low. I try to improve my fish now. So we're going to see if next time it improves. The Myeloperoxidase is a cool test. You didn't touch on MPO too much. What do you think of that marker? So

Speaker 2  2:11:39
the myoperoxidase that could oxidize your LDL. So three, what is the what is the range?

Speaker 6  2:11:50
It's up to 600 is where they start saying there's a problem.

Speaker 2  2:11:55
Yeah, three. I mean, I think 372, that should not be too bad,

Speaker 6  2:11:59
right? Many patients will have high Yeah.

Speaker 1  2:12:02
LP PLA represents plaque formation and myeloproduction is MPO is plaque rupture. So one is, one is a danger and one is, is, is, one is at risk, and one is much more serious. The MPO and that's high Myeloperoxidase, that's a plaque rupture.

Speaker 6  2:12:31
Isn't myoproxy is also the body's way of producing hydrogen peroxide.

Speaker 2  2:12:36
Yeah, it does contribute to the oxidation too, yes, but

Unknown Speaker  2:12:41
is that also a sign that the body is trying to fight infection?

Unknown Speaker  2:12:46
That I'm not sure that's my theory

Unknown Speaker  2:12:51
of infection, C react approach about

Speaker 9  2:12:54
the homocysteine, low homocysteine, because I understand that's just as bad as what. What what are the effects of low homocysteine? And I would think four is low.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:07
What's the problem with low I think there is

Speaker 2  2:13:10
a problem with it, but I can't speak to it. Can someone else chime in on on that? I'm not sure about the low homocysteine, because I haven't seen any low homocysteine anyway, most of it is in the range of 5678, at least for my patient, and so I never really get the knowing less. If I know when it's high, it's a problem because it causes all the arterial problem that we have. But when it's a very low, it's just like creatinine to me, if a creatinine is low, does that mean by having a kidney failure or something? No, no,

Speaker 6  2:13:49
I use low creatinine as a marker of low muscle mass and low protein intake, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:13:54
Yep,

Speaker 7  2:13:56
I saw a client who had low homocysteine, and she had a functional medicine doctor telling her to use cysteine, to use cysteine. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:11
interesting.

Speaker 4  2:14:12
Never heard it. Did indicate, of course, yeah, no, first

Unknown Speaker  2:14:16
I heard of it, this particular person.

Speaker 2  2:14:21
Very interesting. Okay, thank you. Yeah,

Speaker 1  2:14:26
low homocysteine, malnutrition, malabsorption, over methylation for detox capacity, uh, methylation imbalance.

Speaker 2  2:14:39
Okay, so we have to do more methylation, like methylated co factors, correct,

Speaker 6  2:14:49
yeah, partial mutation on folate I have

Speaker 4  2:14:54
so Dr Thomas, just to add to The interventions for lipoprotein A, so hormone therapy, specifically, estrogen definitely helps lower down lipoprotein A, and this actually can give you at least around 20% decrease. And the studies actually showed that these were done with oral estrogens, and another one would be aspirin. So that's also another 20% that lowers down lipoprotein A. But the breakthrough in lowering down lipoprotein a are there's now new drugs that are being made. These are the antisense oligonucleotides. So that's still going to be in the future. They're in trial phases now. I think it's pala Carson, or there's, it's just a weird name, but they actually have claimed 90 to 95% reduction of lipoprotein a,

Unknown Speaker  2:15:47
interesting. That's cool.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:51
Still experimental, though.

Speaker 2  2:15:52
Yeah. So every drug has side effects. We see what happens, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:15:59
I know that we're the guinea pig for that?

Speaker 2  2:16:01
Yeah, in terms of estrogen, though, many people are claiming estrogen as being the panacea for everything, like what Doctor cleophy is saying. People say that if your estrogen level is a 150 that's really great when you do a hormone replacement. I say no, in this environment where we have so much estrogen, we have xenoestrogens as a major contender, including the glyphosate and all of those things that is in our food, perhaps not a good idea to add too much estrogen, because any estrogen can cause problem. Many people see extra dial as benign, but extra die is not because the extra dial enter converts with a strong and the strand can go to be 16 alpha hydroxy estrogen that is going to predispose people to cancer. So if you tell me I should increase my extra die level, I would say, No, I don't want that to happen, because I could create more problem than it is worth.

Speaker 6  2:17:12
As Dr Lawson says, you want a one to one ratio of estrone to estradiol, which I was able to achieve here most

Speaker 2  2:17:19
of the time, because the the conversion go both ways. So a strong can go to extra Dao, but the route to good, from extra Dao to a strong is bigger. So if you have tons of extra dial, you can make more a strong that way. And if you're doing that e1 that e1 if you're not lucky, it goes to the 16 alpha, and that is going to cause more problem than you want.

Speaker 4  2:17:53
One question in the email, because you answered already the lipoprotein, a question, niacin, forget to work. I think this was asked a while ago, do you need to flush? Or it doesn't matter if you flush or not, for you to get the card,

Speaker 2  2:18:10
according to McConnell, the flash one is the more potent one. And for him, you do the flush, it will be painful for a couple of days, and then it goes away the more you do it. So if you want to get better results, then you can stick to the flush one, and it may be useful that way. But there's a non flash that is available from other companies, and you can try that too high dose. All

Unknown Speaker  2:18:41
right, there's a product called, What

Unknown Speaker  2:18:44
do you think about progesterone? Progesterone to balance out the testosterone.

Speaker 2  2:18:52
I always give progesterone to men because the progesterone helps you make your testosterone, but also prevents the testosterone from going to DHT agree, it can be dihydro testosterone out of the progesterone and DHEA. So if I give you progesterone DHEA, I put an aromatase inhibitor there, then you make your own testosterone. You may probably a little bit of estrogen, but it's not going to cause trouble, and you're not making DHT out of your testosterone,

Unknown Speaker  2:19:29
agree. Thank you Sure.

Speaker 4  2:19:38
Called inositol hex nicotina, that was before, and this is a non flush form, and it was ran through studies that, yeah, it doesn't have the flushing effect. It also didn't get the results of altering the lipid levels. So that kind of supports that theory that the flush is probably needed for you to get that cardiovascular benefits,

Speaker 2  2:20:01
well, the flash one, so many people from the flash one was better, but some people don't like the side effects of it, like I said. They said, if you can stand it for a few days, then you can do better with it.

Speaker 6  2:20:14
No, I felt really bad taking it. I had to stop chesting, yeah. So

Unknown Speaker  2:20:20
you have to hang it there. You have to be tough. I know

Speaker 4  2:20:26
Scientologists in your practice. They have a process to cleanse themselves of using high dose niacin for few days consecutively, because I have patients who are Scientologists. And this is very interesting, that this is a process in their, in their I don't know culture is that what you call, call it, but it's, yeah, they, they bump it up, and then ice and dose is, like, really high.

Speaker 3  2:20:50
It's religion. It's it's not culture, it's religion,

Speaker 6  2:20:56
out of body. Experience with the doses, and I've experienced that, feel like you're floating away. It's crazy. Wow, wow. It's not good. I don't

Speaker 2  2:21:05
like it. I always take the note. I did the non flash one because I never really want to experience anything bad. So

Unknown Speaker  2:21:16
Okay, Dr Nario, you got any questions from

Speaker 4  2:21:20
I already asked it, so majority of them were asked when you were reading the chat.

Speaker 1  2:21:26
Okay. Doug, any any takeaways?

Speaker 2  2:21:31
Yeah. So who did you see? Doctor queen or me? Take away is that you always have to do your lipoprotein fractionation test, making sure that you know how to enter credit, and making sure that your patients are covered with some sort of blocker. If they have a particle sizes that are normal, don't ignore the particle sizes, because they can get into trouble that way. So it will be very important for all of us to check the and also advise the primary care physician that we know, or educate our patients who go through a primary care physician to get the cholesterol test, to do the lipoprotein fractionation test, because this test has been around for years, and we cannot wait and wait and 2530, years later, people still not doing it. It's important to do that before we put people on starting drugs and cause trouble for we kill the manhood, because if you're reducing the LDL cholesterol that is used to make a testosterone and making all these other stuff, then many people are not going to do so well. Many of the old folks who are all on starting drugs, maybe that's why they're not doing so well. That's why they're freer. They cannot build muscle. They cannot do that because they're reducing their livelihood, and we should probably go against that one. One last question. You're muted.

Speaker 1  2:23:10
Hang on. Thank you, Dr Tano, for everything, and we got two CME credits here. And okay, now you can answer that one.

Speaker 6  2:23:20
Yeah, I was chatting with a cardiologist and D friend of mine, and he was saying, Well, you, you just make people feel better by giving them these, these hormones. They they don't, they don't. They shouldn't have to feel good. So the cardiologist wants them to feel bad, and then they know they get a did a good job. Yeah? That's

Speaker 1  2:23:43
chronology, right too. Yeah, you're just giving up a t3 to make them feel good.

Speaker 6  2:23:48
But the cardiologist there are, they're like, Well, the reason uh ENSO keys is supposedly wrong is because we're not lowering the cholesterol low enough they want the April B to B, 20, they 30. They want the LDL to be almost undetectable. Now this is the new trend in advanced cardiology, among the experts leading in the field.

Speaker 3  2:24:10
It's not right. Yeah, no, that's not right.

Speaker 6  2:24:15
Well, they're like, that's why this that's why they're still having heart attacks. The cholesterol isn't low enough. Yeah? So they'll tell us we're wrong, right? Because studies show that they're still having heart attacks, but because it's not low enough, right? So this is, this is what we have now, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:24:33
well, there are some people who have zero cholesterol but still have heart attack. So there's some problem going on with that too. So you wonder, what is going on. I mean, cholesterol, is that really a measure of cardiac arrest for real, in terms of what the cardiologist and other people think? Maybe not. I really think we should look deeper. And if you ask me, is hormonal? Is everything? Hormones are not working to match everything, and it may be driving the cardiac risk. And I will not look at all the aspects. It's like one silo in the cholesterol.

Speaker 3  2:25:13
Agree, Agree. That's, that's Dr Clearfield specialty,

Speaker 1  2:25:19
yeah. So I don't know anybody in the group here closer to cardiologists. I mean, I there's one who in town here who refers to me. That's about it. Nobody else will talk to me. I'm the ex bad boy here. So, so you don't, I'm sure you touched on it. Dr Tanner, but you know that Ancel Keys had actually studied 22 countries to begin with, and he threw out or 15 of them because they didn't really fit, fit what he what he wanted to write about. So he kind of cherry picked that, you know, the set the seven worst countries. And that's, that's kind of how that that's a lot of that came about. Yeah, yeah. So,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:13
still learning that was great.

Speaker 1  2:26:16
Thank you, sir. And so Dr Tano can get put his phone number there. He's got his contact information. Stefan, when are you headed to London?

Bill Clearfield  2:26:30
Is he going? He left? Okay, so the alternative medicine and Integrative Health conferences in London on June 16 and 17th, I'll be presenting online. Stefan is going to be there live, discussing his iodine studies. So I put it in the email. You can get a link there if you want to, want to,

Speaker 1  2:26:59
you know, attend, it's not that expensive. There's an online there's there's a link for it. So that's coming up next week. We have, I don't know how to pronounce this. Social palomaro, did I get that right? Dr, an Ariel? Yes.

Speaker 4  2:27:21
So chill, so chill. You will find out when she gets here next week, we

Speaker 1  2:27:28
will be discussing seven types of mushrooms and their medicinal uses,

Speaker 4  2:27:34
right? She's a mushroom specialist,

Speaker 1  2:27:37
yeah, and so we've been using mushrooms for neuro plasticity and cognitive improving cognitive function,

Unknown Speaker  2:27:47
not the hallucinogens, right?

Speaker 2  2:27:49
And I tell people to do mushroom coffee, because I'll be Reishi. She take, may take all of those things are anti estrogenic.

Speaker 3  2:27:57
Agree, Agree. That's what I do. Yeah,

Speaker 1  2:28:03
well, Joel was way ahead of his time. He was he was he was getting though he was putting mushrooms in his coffee, uh, 10 years ago when I met him. So the way it tasted. So I guess you get used to it like

Unknown Speaker  2:28:17
you do. You do.

Speaker 1  2:28:21
Okay? Anybody have anything else, Dr Quinn have? Can you give us a little wrap up of the conference over the weekend that we sort of, you know?

Speaker 5  2:28:35
Well, I think I think Dr Tanner would be better at it, because I was unable to attend, myself and doctors any we went in via zoom, but I think from all indications, it was a success. Now, Dr Tano did a great presentation, as well as Doctor Pete Dimitri, we had some really good, really good stuff coming up. And then there was a special guest, this Cathy O'Brien, that talked about things. The whole theme of the thing was presenting new, cutting edge type of things and ways that we can promote and proceed with therapies and products and items that we believe that the public needs without running into as much interference as we have been, let's say, being persecuted by certain entities. So it was a success, as far as that and people knowing each other. The next step, though, will be to, as Dr Tano suggested to for us to come under an umbrella of an organization, because we have solid educational programs there. There's opportunities to actually offer degrees, which would be very beneficial for people in foreign countries right now and and so once we get going with that type of thing, a little bit more solid structure and organization we're going to be able to take on other tasks now. Dr Burgess set this up as research and ethical medicine, and we still have some products and whatnot that are undergoing that. So it continues on. Dr Tanner, do you have any other thoughts? I mean, you were you were there?

Speaker 2  2:30:19
No. So I agree, unfortunately, we could not, except for Dr queen and Dr Ben's presentation that we're able to record. Everybody has said, Don't record it. So we didn't record the DR Dimitris presentation and Kathy O'Brien's presentation. We did not record that, because they said that everybody has to be free to express themselves. And since Dr Dimitri is talking about his molecule, that is still esoteric, and nobody should know a whole lot of details, then we did not record that. But overall, I think for the first time we put in together a meeting. It was not bad. We did, you know, we did learn a lot. We did. You know, the presentation by Dr queen. Dr Ben was great. Dr Dimitri did a great job. Everybody seemed to love what he presented. And I think in the future, with more lead time, because we didn't have time at all to prepare this. Imagine Dr Bucha just get up and say, Hey, we're going to have a presentation and we're going to have a meeting in three months or two months, yeah. So there was no time to prepare at all, and bad people or people to come. But I think in the future, if we do ahead of time and had a lead time, we will get more participation, and we can invite more people to do presentations and things that are sort of and that would be more important if we do that

Speaker 5  2:32:00
way? Yeah, yeah, and don't minimize your presentation was fantastic. The way that you are expanding this type of medicine all over the world is critical,

Speaker 2  2:32:11
right? So we're trying to help the less fortunate people. And what I was seeing is, if we could help Africans, for instance, help themselves, then we are all winners, because when we have Ebola coming here, we all freak out. But if we can help them contain that on the African soil, then it doesn't come to us and we don't freak out. So that alone is something to invest in. I think if

Speaker 3  2:32:48
it's not just the African soil, it's the American soil,

Speaker 2  2:32:53
yeah, that's what I'm saying, yes. So whatever we do for Africa, but then it is contagious diseases that helps America, helps the whole world, because now the world is one and agreed, the plane fly in one day, the plane is somewhere else and pick up some person with contamination. It brings it to here, and then everybody's contaminated in one shot,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:21
agree, yeah, each other

Speaker 2  2:33:24
can help ourselves. Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:33:27
one one. We found out it's one world when we do when we deal with communicable diseases. But now, now, Dr Carol Peterson, did you attend via zoom? Were you able to do

Speaker 2  2:33:40
it. She came in one of them late, but

Speaker 7  2:33:44
I came in one afternoon and I saw Dr tan. I was link,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:51
yeah, okay,

Speaker 7  2:33:52
so that's all I all I was able to do. Okay?

Speaker 5  2:33:56
And then I have a question. Dr Nario, the the, I don't know what they call in the Philippine connection. All the practitioners, there are these, all people going to be members of ALS rd or aosim.

Speaker 4  2:34:13
Actually, they have been in touch with me about this, and I'm actually trying to hear their side of this, but they are interested. I'm speaking to the Vice President of their group, which is the which prima is what they call it there, okay? And I definitely want to hear what they have to say. But they are very interested. And also, of course, the group, in terms of how you guys perceive it, so I'm going to present what, what they have.

Speaker 5  2:34:46
Okay, no, that, yeah, that's great, because I know, personally, in the in a talk that I gave, if I cited this group as one of the the leaders in what we're trying to do, and as you know, Dr Clearfield, as you can establish such a powerhouse group of people here, it's nothing greater than than to see it expand, that's for sure.

Speaker 1  2:35:08
Yep. So, like I, like I mentioned early on, and the Nevada homeopathic society, they need accredited conference also. So preliminary, November, the weekend of November, 7, eighth and ninth in Reno. And we would be, you know, the featured group, and we're going to shoot for that. I hope that that is little at least give us sort of an anchor, something to to look forward to,

Speaker 5  2:35:40
okay. Did you say okay, sorry. Did you say the homeopathic society is having a meeting? Man,

Unknown Speaker  2:35:49
Doctor nary what's the official name of them?

Speaker 4  2:35:54
So you're talking about nema. Is that what you're talking about? Or, yeah? Dr gerbers, yeah, the Nevada homeopathic and integrative medicine association. So that's basically it's we're connected with that. Dr Quinn, so you being part of the board now there's affiliation between us.

Bill Clearfield  2:36:18
And then Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association also is part of this, and then us. And so we've, we've, we've sort of penciled in November, 7, eighth and ninth, which is Friday, Saturday and Sunday. We hopefully put together a nice program. We'll shop around for a venue. There's, there's a couple of places in Reno that we've used before that are pretty nice and, you know, and and affordable, and they're pretty accommodating to us. So one, one criticism of your weekend last, last weekend, was that at least charged to break even, you know, or something.

Speaker 5  2:37:00
Oh, no, I get it. Yeah, I get it.

Speaker 1  2:37:04
No, you know, we do have money left over from the osrd days, but you know, it's not unlimited, and it'd be nice to at least, you know, you know, not to make anything, but at least to break even.

Speaker 5  2:37:16
No, sure. Yeah, understood. And I think, as Dr Tanner mentioned, with longer lead time,

Speaker 1  2:37:23
$2,000 stipends, you know, to someone,

Speaker 5  2:37:27
yeah, yeah. No, I agree. I agree. And that was a shock, I think, to most of us,

Speaker 1  2:37:34
yeah. So no, I don't, I don't think in the seven years I've run this outfit, I've gotten a $2,000 stipend for all seven years. It's actually, it's cost me way more than that, yeah. So, yeah, yeah, we'll tighten it up.

Speaker 5  2:37:54
Okay? And, you know, I had made a suggestion to halasa, and I will say the same thing to you. Take it, you know, with a grain of salt if you want. You want the value in what is being presented every Tuesday night is worth its weight in gold. And I cannot imagine practitioners out there, the 50 of them that come on here, that would not feel comfortable bringing in something as as, you know, as, I don't want to say a payment or a fee or something, but there should be, there should be something. Nowhere do you get this kind of information. And this is for free, other than the doggone 50 bucks for the two CMEs. That's just

Unknown Speaker  2:38:34
unbelievable. Yeah, it

Speaker 5  2:38:37
doesn't go to you, yeah. So that's, that's what I'm saying people, people need to see and and pay for the value of this. Just my opinion, great. I mean, great, highly agree,

Speaker 1  2:38:48
two bucks, five bucks just to, just to pay for the Zoom link.

Speaker 5  2:38:53
Yeah, you know, right. I mean, who, who wouldn't, who wouldn't pay 25 bucks a month for four lectures like this, yeah, because

Speaker 2  2:39:02
this is actually right lecture that we have here are similar to what is given, that if for him, for pay, right, yeah, right, then they pay for it. But this is free every, every week we do twice. Doctor halasa, Dr Clearfield, two things that we give him for free, for free, and the people go to a forum and pay a lot of money for it, and actually we have the same similar kind of content that I don't know. So nothing's for

Unknown Speaker  2:39:37
free, right?

Speaker 1  2:39:38
Weekend coming up August, 1, the longevity conference day for him in Colorado Springs, $2,750,

Speaker 5  2:39:47
ahead. And what, and what do people, you know, my big bugaboo, what do people come out of there after Sunday hit the office, Monday morning? What do they do? They don't from what my attending in the a 4m stuff is, I don't see people changing and enhancing their practice on Monday, going to all of these things. However, every single week we have actionable items. Adam.

Speaker 2  2:40:11
Adam is asking, What company name would they check made to? What

Speaker 1  2:40:19
was that I didn't get Adam

Speaker 2  2:40:23
crouch crouch. And he said, What company name would a chat to to be made to to make

Speaker 1  2:40:32
ethic Society of integrative medicine. We actually still have the the other still, amen. Sorry, so I still have both. I never dissolved it. So,

Speaker 5  2:40:44
okay, the I Am seems pretty appropriate, doesn't it, right? Thanks, Joe.

Speaker 1  2:40:52
I would, I would like to come together with and come up with a name to get the osteopathic out of there, though.

Speaker 5  2:41:00
Okay, well, you know, I mean, there, there are names out there. Dr tanos got names. We are operating, or at least our working title for the Saturday group, is the alliance of integrative and indigenous medicine. I don't know if that flies because of the indigenous part, but if alliance of integrative medicine is available, you know, that

Speaker 1  2:41:20
can be used. I think that's something John. That's one of John's Yes, trademarks. So I just, I just bought a new donate domain name, and let's see if you like this one. Clearfield goes hormonal.com. Yeah.

Speaker 5  2:41:43
I got nothing against that, yeah, yeah. And, of course, I always suggest the HMR QR Fund, which has helped make Robert Quinn rich. Okay, no one's ever donated to that, right, right?

Speaker 1  2:42:05
Dr. Dr Nario is a a forum instructor. So he's, he's like a double agent here, so I see him looking scans at this, at this discussion,

Speaker 4  2:42:18
I do, I do have some agreement with you. But maybe the meat of a frame lectures is when you do the courses, when you go to the A frame you would you a frame sessions, you would see it's only like 30 minutes or 40 the most. It's really just giving you a glimpse of it when you do the fellowship and the modules, that's where the Monday morning clinical pearls really comes into the picture. But again, yeah, being a faculty for this long there, yeah, there's, there's some things that we need to to improve. Also,

Speaker 5  2:42:55
that's good. I'm glad that the fellowship program, I mean, I've talked to many people in that and they do find tremendous value in that. I'm just not sure if the number of people who are want to do that. It's almost like modifying your practice, your current practice, or something like that. And I think maybe there's a lot of people that would benefit from what we're doing here.

Speaker 4  2:43:18
Agree, Agree. I can vouch that our lectures here really are top class, even world class, because I've seen so many I've been to Germany, different lectures, the things that we offer here are just incomparable. I mean, we're we're not joking around, we're not dilly dallying about stuff here. This is all pure education. And as you can see, how dedicated we are to educate our practitioners. We offer it for free now, right? Yeah, that's just dedication right there.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:51
Yeah, great. Point

Speaker 1  2:43:54
where I always get stuck is, how do we get the word out? So, and I have a, I have, I have an email list of about 4000 that's what I send out, you know, you know, three times a week.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:05
Okay, do you have a presence on Instagram?

Unknown Speaker  2:44:08
I do.

Speaker 5  2:44:11
Okay, they tell me that that's a great way to do it, LinkedIn, all, you know, social media type of stuff, because this fits right in. And, I mean, this is computer learning, agree, yeah, go ahead and take that on

Speaker 1  2:44:31
these videos to put it on, like YouTube Live, or Facebook Live or something.

Speaker 5  2:44:36
Yeah, yeah. You know, I don't know, but what I think is I'm finding to be extremely valuable is these 10 minute, five minute three minute teasers. You know, I'm Dr William Clearfield. I have treated X million patients with hormone therapy. I can blah, blah, blah to, you know, take it from there in just a three minute thing as a teaser, and then people can come in and see it. And the only reason is to boost up views, right? So people come on and see it, and then practitioners will as well, and then they come on. But it's not a quick fix, and it's not that easy, but it does work.

Speaker 1  2:45:19
We've been doing this for five years, so I'm not in any hurry at the moment. Oh, okay.

Speaker 4  2:45:27
Well, and that video by saying you're going hormonal,

Unknown Speaker  2:45:30
yeah, I mean, that'd be so cool.

Speaker 1  2:45:36
Okay, and if anybody knows how to how to link us up to either YouTube Live or Facebook Live or something like that. Let me know, because I don't know how to I've been reading it, how to do it, and I can't get it to get I can't get it to work. So

Speaker 2  2:45:52
find a procedure. I would say I have linked this base presentation to be Metaverse, to be tyre Pro, me diverse. So if we promote that, then that is something that we can bring in people to subscribe to it, and then it gives us the possibility of

Speaker 1  2:46:15
Peter, step by steps. You do this, first, do this second.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:18
Yeah. How do you do it? Yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:46:20
yes. Yes.

Speaker 1  2:46:22
And as you know, if you read the instruction talking, they use words that don't exist. You know, these words, I have no idea what the hell they're talking about.

Speaker 5  2:46:35
I think Kano is the man here. He can do anything with it. Amen. Amen.

Speaker 1  2:46:40
No, we he's, he's, he's, he's way smarter than the rest

Unknown Speaker  2:46:47
of this queen, Dr Nario, everybody.

Speaker 5  2:46:54
Well, thank you. But not close. So, so anyway, my point to the whole thing again is in where we talked about this at the meeting, is a solid organization, whatever you, whatever you want to call it, and then let's, let's go out there and make sure that our, at least our attendees, become members, and take it from there and then build the membership. Agree.

Speaker 2  2:47:17
Great. Yeah. Is it possible to have a signing list or sign up list. So then the people who come to the meeting,

Unknown Speaker  2:47:28
I get that every Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:47:31
yeah. Beside that No, I see that they sign up as members instead of attendees. Because so far, what we have is attendees. People come by attend, and then they participate in the zoom, but they're not vested members. And if we need to consider a membership fee, we can do that too, a small token fee to begin with. And as time goes by, at least to cover the Zoom cost, as you said. And then as time goes by, maybe we can make it a little more to cover other stuff, so progressively we can make it happen that way, especially before 1000 people you have on the list, you can invite them to be a member of this organization.

Speaker 1  2:48:21
You'll be like, you'll be like, you like the United Football League, taking out, taking on the NFL, right?

Speaker 2  2:48:28
Yeah, yeah. There are many other people doing this, uh. Mark Hyman has a group is called commune commuting and commute commising. They recruiting left and right? It's not only professional that they're inviting. They're also inviting the patients to be part of it. I think that's a really good idea, where we can invite other people, like the patients, to come and consume what has been already produced, meaning all the past videos and everything else. We can plug them in, and they can have access to it, and they can watch those videos at the leisure time. Agree.

Speaker 5  2:49:19
Agree. It seems like there, there are many avenues for us to explore. It just takes time and effort and all that kind of stuff, and know how, and that's why. Doctor Tano, you're going to lead it. Alright.

Speaker 2  2:49:32
Doctor Quinn is giving me more work. So initially, you know how I came into the research group. Dr Clearfield said, I'm not I don't have time today. Can you host this as a show?

Unknown Speaker  2:49:51
And that was a great move.

Unknown Speaker  2:49:54
I'm learning how to delegate.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:01
That was great.

Speaker 1  2:50:03
So Alright, any other questions, doctor? So shield next week, and after that, we're going to have Derek de Silva. He's a one of the founders of ammg and and and, wow. And I have, after that, we're going to have Frank shannonberger. Oh, great. And after that, I have Doctor Quinn with muscle centric medicine again, so I'll find somebody you know.

Bill Clearfield  2:50:36
So actually, I going to have Leo. Her name is Leo. Share. She does. She's actually a lawyer who's involved with high dose vitamin C therapies. Oh, wow, that'll be July 1. So that's the rest of the month. Nice.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:52
All right, cool.

Speaker 1  2:50:54
So also invited me to her conference in Clearwater, Florida in October. So she wants me to talk about hormones and vitamin C. So I gotta have to learn about that, because I don't know, I don't know any Carol. Is there any anything on hormones and vitamin C?

Speaker 2  2:51:10
Think Carol was the one who was saying that, uh, Linus Pauling was taking, uh, 30,030

Speaker 7  2:51:17
grams, 30 grams. I'll figure it out today. Yeah, there must be something I haven't looked at that angle yet. Alright, have to ask, have to ask rock or somebody.

Speaker 1  2:51:31
There's 20 folks still, still on here, after almost two and a half, two hours and 45 minutes. So sure, our heart or so, I want you all to come up with at least a 60 minute lecture that we're going to put on for for November. Okay, cool. And you got three weeks to get me a title and an abstract

Speaker 2  2:51:56
invitation for this meeting. Should I do that too?

Unknown Speaker  2:51:59
What's that? Yeah, you're gonna hear the chair.

Unknown Speaker  2:52:13
You didn't hear

Unknown Speaker  2:52:14
your question. Dr, Tano, I didn't hear you didn't hear it. What's the

Speaker 2  2:52:18
question? I said this an official invitation to put in an abstract.

Speaker 1  2:52:22
Yes, just send it to me. We'll, we'll come up with a website and, you know, do it all nice and fluffy. But for now, you guys, you all have my email address, right? So, yeah, you should buy now.

Speaker 5  2:52:42
Okay, there you go. Good, yeah, okay, good. And the last thing I have to say, Dr Nario, is I, I spoke this. I had to cut out of this raw spoke to Charles Green. He said to tell you he's giving me the keys to the kingdom, whatever that means,

Unknown Speaker  2:52:58
good. That's good to hear. Good to know.

Bill Clearfield  2:53:02
Okay, alright, okay, thank you. Everybody, anybody else have anything questions? We'll have the video up as soon as it's available. Doctor Tano, I'll send you the the email participant list, and we'll see you again next week. Same time, same station. Thanks everybody. Great night.

Unknown Speaker  2:53:20
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Wonderful.

Speaker 1  2:53:25
Something I want to I want to grow up to be used. Someday I think that's that's that's there's

Speaker 2  2:53:30
more to be like you. So, that's the thing. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:53:36
All right. Good night, everybody. Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai