Bill Clearfield  00:41
Hello, Dr Quinn,

Unknown Speaker  00:46
hello. Dr Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  00:48
can you hear me? Okay, hear you? Fine.

Speaker 1  00:50
Okay, good. I have this corded Yeah, I see that microphone on, supposed to be better for you than air pods or whatever.

Bill Clearfield  01:01
Yeah, you know, I've used them for a little while, and now I'm having trouble hearing through them. So that's why I went back to the court one too.

Speaker 1  01:07
Oh, yeah. Whatever you do, don't do what I did, which was try to jam them my ear a little bit further, because then I got irritated. My ear got irritated, and I couldn't figure out why, so I went to the courted ones.

Bill Clearfield  01:23
So, so my, my old Aunt Audrey, would say, you dumb boy, you exactly the second you

Unknown Speaker  01:34
that makes it harder hitting.

Bill Clearfield  01:39
So, so how you're still wearing shirts. So, yeah, must be cool in Las Vegas, huh?

Speaker 1  01:45
Well, actually, today is, like mid 80s, so I'd say for the most part, today I didn't have the shirt on, but I figured I'd wear a shirt now.

Bill Clearfield  01:52
Well, okay, you know, we're kind of used to you without it, though you won't recognize me with it. I won't recognize, you know, the pictures I got of you got off the internet. I had to do a double take there. So you get a picture of you right now, so I know that it's really you.

Speaker 1  02:12
Yeah, exactly. There you go. Yeah, yeah. You can't tell Yeah, that one on the internet was few years back, actually had a white coat on, I think too. Yeah, you look pretty official there, yeah, yeah, with the mask hanging from my ear, yeah? Well, that,

Bill Clearfield  02:27
you know, you know Ross Pelton, you know, he claims to be a recovering pharmacist too. So, yes, exactly you like that,

Speaker 1  02:36
yeah, yeah, they, they did a lot of damage to us in school and over the years, right? So, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:43
that's why, you know, you talk to someone who doesn't really have a medical degree and they have a whole different look on the world, you know

Speaker 1  02:53
exactly, yeah, that is for sure. And you know, one thing that I've learned too, is that so many people have gone so far beyond what the original training and stuff was in learning new things and different things that the background kind of helps, you know, helps you weed through some things, see some things, discern some things. But I was trying to figure out, when do you think? How many years have you been in practice where you realized, now you you've learned more after school than you did during school? You know what I mean?

Bill Clearfield  03:32
Oh well, the first time I got I got to get up and at a 4m and give a talk. I must have been at least eight

Speaker 1  03:43
years ago. So, oh, okay, yeah, because, you know, you learn a whole boatload of information in school, but

Bill Clearfield  03:48
you have to learn a whole lot of it. Yeah, you have to learn, yeah, I, I've said this to a number of times, other than maybe a basic anatomy, I don't think, I don't think I use anything that we were taught in medical school at all? Isn't that

Speaker 1  04:03
funny? Isn't that funny? Wow. And so that's why you know you say we're recovering certain areas, yeah, because you you go beyond that, and you learn so much more. And then for for all of us who learn a lot of allopathic stuff, we we learned a lot of things that we don't really like, Yeah, except for Dr Mario, he knows everything

Bill Clearfield  04:27
well, you know, but he, you know, he's still young. He's still closer to the to the medical school that we are. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:35
exactly right.

Unknown Speaker  04:40
Dr wells giving me an education on that too.

Bill Clearfield  04:44
What Did We Learn This Week from What Did We Learn This Week in the integrative medicine fellowship? Alright,

Speaker 2  04:49
so it's our daily update, our weekly update on the university learnings.

Bill Clearfield  04:54
Okay, so we myself.

Speaker 2  04:59
So we got, I got an education about virgin coconut oil. So I don't know if you guys know about this that. Well, I see a lot of patients using refined coconut oil, playing coconut oil. I thought it was going to be the same, but really we I think we know about this, that virgin coconut oil actually is cold pressed, and it retains the polyphenols, the nutrients, the vitamins in it. The thing with this, though, is so there's a big controversy about, of course, the VCO, is it actually what it's claiming to be the remedy for all it's really not, especially for cardiovascular disease. So they're saying that it actually does help with raising good cholesterol, but at the same time, it actually raises your bad cholesterol. The reason for that would be, is there's a lot of saturated fatty acids in it, and also, of course, MCTs, which you want for your ketone bodies for, of course, brain function and also weight loss. The thing with that is the most prominent one is lauric acid. Lauric acid is the one that we use a lot for our Candida in the gut. But the thing here that's the also the same one that might raise the bad cholesterol at the same time. That's why the basic suggestion of recent studies is saying that use it in moderation, not like as powerful of a recommendation, like extra virgin olive oil, for example. Those are really high on the on the recommendation chain, and at the same time, a theory here, though, it does raise LDL. But the bigger question is, is it raising the LDL the because you don't like the small LDLs to be more prominent because it has a more etherogenic capacity for stroke and heart attacks. It might be raising the large LDL so that is still under research, but that's why, still the cardiovascular recommendation for VCO is still like so so we're not really convinced about that. Still, it's good to use it on hair, though, because of its absorbability, and there's some studies out there that's helping with the hair, a little bit of hair care, hair growth, but it's also not in in prime time. So that's your education,

Speaker 1  07:20
unrefined or refined, because I know they have both unrefined and refined, I don't know. Yeah, so have the polyphenols, the

Speaker 2  07:28
plain coconut oil, the refined coconut oil. So it's the processing of virgin coconut oil that retains all the polyphenols that it has, and also the healthy ingredients that it can retain. So, yeah, you have to be specific about Virgin Coconut, I guess on the label.

Speaker 3  07:47
Okay, Doctor Nario, actually, I have just published a book on this accidental community. Cholesterol decoded. Sorry. Cholesterol decoded. Wow. Cholesterol decoder published on Amazon, and it talks about all of that. And I use the mathematical approach, where how things are connected, and stuff like that. It's very nice done. It has an audio version, and the audio also is very good. It gives you a lot of listening hours, but it goes step by step and explain everything bmct in the coconut oil, what it does and etc. Wow,

Speaker 2  08:31
they are there. We have a reference here. So everybody jump on that one. Doctor, John,

Speaker 1  08:38
you're scary, man. You You know so much and do so much, it makes me feel totally inadequate.

Bill Clearfield  08:44
I was a little too smart for this group.

Unknown Speaker  08:46
Wow, at

Unknown Speaker  08:50
least for me, that's a group effort, right?

Unknown Speaker  08:54
Yeah, exactly

Speaker 3  08:59
one of the controversies has always been, you guys know the African paradox, right? So back in the old days when answer keys came up with his theories about cholesterol and cholesterol being the villain, people noticed that the Africans were not dying of heart attack, but yet they were consuming a lot of saturated fat, and they were not dying. So what was the difference? Well, the difference is what Dr Navier said. It turns out the saturated fat, like coconut oil, it goes to increase the large particle LDL, which is protective, rather than the small, dense particle. LDL, which is my first progenic So if you eat coconut oil, olive oil, and all of the grape seed oil, all of them help increase your large particle. LDL, so personal experience when I mean, I have had high cholesterol for a long time, when I was in residency, all my preceptors told me to go and take starting drug. Somehow. I said, No, I don't want to be even though I didn't know much about cholesterol. But I refused. And years later, when I learned about lipoprotein fractionation test, I did do my lipoprotein fractionation test, and it turns out my large particle LDL is what is larger. Oh, so suppose I had taken the Saturn drug and reduced my my my LDL. I'll be killing myself because I was going to reduce my large particle LDL, that is protective for me.

Speaker 2  10:47
Good thing you brought that up. So the basic studies right now, as we base our lipid panel interpretation on the lipid particles right LP, LDL, particle, number and small LDL does not respond well through statins. That's why that is not a good approach. If you want to lower that number down and you aggressively increase the dosing of your statins in relation to that number, you're definitely going to be be more harmful to your patient than helping them around. So it's always going to be natural that has been proven to lower down LDL particle number and LDL size. That's

Speaker 3  11:20
correct. And also, and when you do the starting drugs, Have you guys noticed, if you have a diabetic and you put them on certain drugs, actually the blood glucose become very manageable. You can it's difficult to keep them on one medication. You have to give them three or four medication to control the blood glucose. Why? Because you blocking the HMG COA reductase, that is the final step to bring him the acid or COVID to make the cholesterol. So that becomes so when you block that, then there's a backup, and then the glucose goes back into the blood.

Bill Clearfield  12:00
Yeah. In the meantime, anybody who's diabetic, like, even though I don't take insurance, I get from their insurance company, this person must be on a statin. You're gonna die Exactly.

Unknown Speaker  12:13
Yeah,

Speaker 1  12:14
yeah. Well, you know, you know what they say now, right? A stat in a day keeps the doctor away. Yeah, it's pretty sad.

Bill Clearfield  12:26
Alright? Doctor Dr Nario, here, keep up the good work here.

Speaker 4  12:30
So, Doctor Tano, I got a report back for you, a case. I don't know if you help me with this one, one of the prostate cases. Okay, this is a guy. He's 57 years old, and he actually has prostatitis symptoms, right? He's painful sometimes to sit. And he just told me he finished a course of itroconazole. And what he did is he did a long car trip to Pennsylvania, and says normally on an 18 hour drive, it's excruciating and aggravating, but he trip with almost zero pain and discomfort and much less peace stops. He says the itroconazole has been amazing, but after finishing the bottle within one day of not taking it, the things, the problems, came back again. Yeah, it's

Speaker 3  13:13
not enough, so he has to continue that for several months. Okay, the only thing we have to monitor his liver and making sure that he's not taking a hit on

Speaker 1  13:23
that. What is that fungus in the prostate? Yeah, it's a fungus,

Speaker 3  13:27
actually, fungus. That's what the presentation I did on the prostatitis versus cancer.

Speaker 1  13:35
Yeah, wow. Yeah. That's amazing. That's a good job. I

Speaker 4  13:41
mean, that's our you know, I did so much with ivermectin on prostate, and I saw such good results with that, right? And that Dr Tano is leading me on towards maybe it's a fungus for some individuals, and they need to be treated with anti fungal therapies, correct? Now, have you

Speaker 1  13:57
heard the same thing about the pancreas? I've been hearing about microorganisms in the pancreas causing problems, correct?

Unknown Speaker  14:04
Yeah, that too.

Unknown Speaker  14:08
They're out to get us

Bill Clearfield  14:12
all right. So, so then, after, after five, anybody else, anything otherwise, we have Doctor Robert Quinn with us, one of our regulars and the one of our leading research physicians. He's a practicing chemist times two years prior to graduate school, has a doctorate in pharmacy from USC School of Pharmacy, where he was the class president. Do you believe that? Yeah, bought graduate pharmacology for two years in physical therapy, therapy doctoral program for the Department of Kinesiology at USC, was the first pharmacist to become a fellow in the Academy of ozone therapy. Is that Dr schallenbergers group? Yeah, yeah. I'm going to be speaking there in May in Dallas. Great two years advanced training and Environmental Medicine from southeast College of naturopathic medicine. 10 years as a hospital pharmacist, pharmacy director. He owned a compounding pharmacy and Regenerative Medicine Center for 10 years. He created over 150 IV formulations for wellness, immune system, boost, detoxification and energy. He's treated hundreds of quote, unquote, hormone patients. Co founder, CEO of prism Earth, a can of sutical manufacturing company in 2021 and he has 10 original therapeutic combination products certified by the American Academy of anti aging medicine, fellow the American Academy of ozone therapy, an original member of the naturopathic association of Environmental Medicine and the International Association of compounding pharmacies. So Doctor Quinn is quite, quite accomplished, and he's going to give us the 1040 on the camera, steep dive, popular uses for cannabis in medical treatment. So Doctor Quinn, it is my pleasure to hand you the floor. Oh,

Speaker 1  16:20
thank you. Thank you. Let me see if I can do the share screen thing here. Let's see where we go.

Unknown Speaker  16:34
About that can can you see that we're

Bill Clearfield  16:36
good? Okay, so if I can make it the whole screen, okay,

Unknown Speaker  16:41
I should be able to do that. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  16:45
go over to from some slide show. Yeah, go over to from carriage slide or begin either one beginning. There we

Speaker 1  16:51
go. Okay, this, this is kind of the intro type of thing, and really it's about dispelling myths and confidence in recommending these type of products. This is my information right here. You know, we always say, oh, you know, put it in the chat or whatever. Well, you know, we've got it here. We can go back to this if anybody cares to get a hold of me or any, any kind of company thing. And I should mention right from the very beginning, yeah, I'm hitched to a wagon. Okay, there's a company, as you mentioned, prism Earth, that I work with, and so I'm not going to mention any of that. I'm not going to mention any products. We're going to talk in generalities, and I want this to be extremely practical. And as I said, my goal is for people to understand what's happening, see how much science is behind this. In the middle of my presentation, gets a little sciency, and I hope I can not bore myself too much with this, because it goes deep in the weeds. I never would have believed the depth that the the mechanisms of action of the plants, cannabinoids and terpenes and flavonoids and esters, and like I always say, there's even vitamin K in cannabis. I would have never believed how deep this goes. You know, way back when, in the 70s, in college, when we were required to use cannabis, no one knew all of the things that were that were actually happening, that were going to be therapeutic. People have been studying this for decades, and so I want to bring to light some of that type of stuff and make sure that everyone understands the safety and how to assure the safety, the potency, through certificates of analysis, which we'll look at as we go here. And here's what we're going to cover, dispelling the myths. I'm going to talk about the human endocannabinoid system and endocannabinoid deficiency syndrome. I'm going to touch a little bit on this for completeness sake. But I want to emphasize that the DR block, Dr Jeffrey block, back in September, if you want to look, did a phenomenal, phenomenal lecture on this. He went deep into the history and also the legal aspects with some of the science as well. My presentation is not going to be as polished and as pretty as his. His slides are unbelievably great compared to mine, but I have a lot of slides, though, so that's my my claim to fame. Here we're going to talk about phytocannabinoids, which are plant based, and we're going to talk about terpenes, which leads us into what's called the entourage effect. And forgive me if I get rudimentary and cover some things people know, but that's you know, I think, part and parcel to bringing to light things that everyone really should know, especially us in healthcare, then I'm going to talk about something brand new called the orchestral effect, right? So we've got the entourage effect. Now we've got the orchestral effect, and then we'll talk about some common uses here. Some of these all go into pain, sleep, PTSD, cancer, that type of thing, epilepsy, we'll talk a little bit about the mechanisms of action of those things. Then something I think is pretty critical is what features one should look for or ask about in a product. Now that would be any patients that come to you that say, Hey, I want to use this. I've been using CBD. Everybody calls everything CBD. I've been using that, or I'm thinking about using that. Hey, Doc, what do I do? Okay, so I want to answer some of those questions there, so you'll be able to speak on a pretty intelligent, knowledgeable level, because most people will not understand the science or why it's important to do certain things. And then at the very end, I'm going to show you guys some certificates of analysis, which is something that's different in this when we talk about supplements, we don't talk about certificates of analysis. When we talk about pharmaceutical ingredients used to compound, we talk about MSDs, material safety data sheets, which are much more comprehensive than anything that is required as far as cannabis goes, the certificates of analysis are kind of a step in the right direction. So these are the things that we're going to cover as we start to dispel the myths. CBD and THC are the same thing. Okay, well, they're both found in cannabis. CBD, or cannabidiol, is psychoactive. People like to say, well, that's the one that's not psychoactive. It is psychoactive. It definitely helps with anxiety and things like that. It works in the brain, so it is psychoactive, but it doesn't cause a high THC or Tetra hydro. Cannabino is responsible for the intoxicating effects of marijuana. That's a term that I hate to use anymore, ever since I learned that it was a derogatory term back in the 30s, or whatever it was having to do with Mexicans and what they were doing, and it was they were persecuted, prosecuted and thrown out, and everything bad because of marijuana. When people say, CBD has no side effects. That's wrong. Okay, there can be side effects, drowsiness, dry mouth, diarrhea and interactions with meds, particularly anticoagulants that we want to watch out for. More THC equals more benefits. Okay, well, that's not true either. Higher, higher THC doesn't necessarily mean more medicinal benefits. The balanced ratios of THC and CBD are more effective depending upon the treatment that you're looking to to have. What has happened over the years, and Dr block covered this with what they call land races. Way back when, things that were growing like in Afghanistan and all over the world, Thailand, the plants were not overly full of THC, but as as the the people have decided that the more THC they have, the higher they get, the better they like it. Plants have been hybridized to have a lot more THC I want to mention here, in case I forget to mention it further on, the studies that were done in Israel, way back in the 60s on this were done with an equal one to one ratio, THC and CBD, the plants that were done by Dr machine there and used for The research, again, one CBD, THC, and at the time, that was illegal in Israel, probably still is, I don't know. So where did he get his all of this stuff for research? United States supplied all the plants for him. And nowadays there's a plant, a cultivar that is used that very rarely anymore, and it's called, it's one to one. It's called ACDC. Okay, so there you go. CBD works immediately for everyone. This is really strange. There's nothing I've never seen anything like this that is more patient or individual specific. Sometimes, CBD will act quickly for people with relief, and other times, for certain things and certain people, you have to build that up over time. So it's not a good idea for somebody to go out and you tell your patients, just don't go out. And then try to get a product. Take it home, use it. I'm not cured. I don't feel better. I don't feel anything. Sometimes it takes a bit of time, a bit of time on that cannabis is only used for pain and anxiety. Not true. Of course, there's tons of information on epilepsy and of course, you know Epidiolex by GW Pharmaceuticals, now bought by a company called Jazz. They market Epidiolex, 99% pure CBD for epilepsy. It's used for inflammation, neurogenerative diseases, PTSD, all kinds of thing, any, any bodily system is controlled by the endocannabinoid system, which we'll we'll get into here next, you can't overdose on cannabis. Well, fatal overdose is unlikely, but excessive consumption leads to anxiety, paranoid, nausea, other things now, nowadays there is something called hyperemesis syndrome. Don't know if you've heard of this. This happens with people who have used a lot of THC over a long period of time. We don't know exactly what a lot is, and we don't know what a long period of time is, but it seems to hit those people, and this is something that is a 100% strict contraindication. If you get hyperemesis syndrome, you must stop using THC. It will never go away. You'll never get better. What's the cure for this? A hot shower. It's the only thing that stops the vomiting. I don't know who discovered it or why, but, but people, ers that that have this problem, some of the the ones in in certain areas, they understand that they throw you into a hot shower. Okay, now, why isn't there a chance of fatal overdose with this. That's because the receptors, the cannabinoid receptors, all the different kinds, are all over the body, everywhere except the brain stem. The brain stem is involved in breathing. So, you know, opiate overdose, you can stop breathing, right? Alcohol will do that. You can stop breathing with this, there are no receptors in the brain stem so you will not overdose to a fatal extent. That's not to say that people don't get whacked high out of their minds and drive a car and do something stupid, but as far as the product goes, no, here's my favorite. All CBD products are the same. Oh, that is so wrong.

Speaker 1  26:41
It really depends upon what type of CD product, CBD product, you can have what we call full spectrum. That is the entire stuff from the plant, which means all of the cannabinoids that the plant naturally made, plus the terpenes, plus the flavonoids, plus, yes or plus everything that's full spectrum. Full Spectrum means it has THC. Broad Spectrum means it has everything I just outlined, except no THC. So there's full spectrum and broad spectrum, and then there's isolate. Isolate is where the chemically will isolate one of the cannabinoids. They tried it years ago with a product called Marinol. I said I wasn't going to mention any products, but that one, and that was straight THC, supposed to be used for cancer, and what they found was this product caused dysphoria instead of euphoria, and didn't do much for the appetite that people needed it for, for to La some of their chemotherapy, okay? And then other CBD products will be different because they contain certain amounts more or less the isolate, CBD that is used for Epidiolex, is expensive. It's hard to do this isolate, and it takes a lot of it to be therapeutic. If anybody knows anything about Epidiolex, it's like doses of 1600 milligrams, multiple times a day, plus other anticonvulsants, and these are in children with the Dravet or Leninist Gestalt, or some type of seizure activity that doesn't seem to be extremely prevalent. We all thought that when that product came out, the reason that they brought it out was to encourage physicians to use it for off label uses. But so far, that doesn't seem to have to have been the case. Oh and then the mislabeling? Oh, boy, there are so many mislabeled products out there. It's really hard to tell. So it can be confusing here. Dr block went into the legalities. People think that it's legal everywhere now, because of the Farm Bill, that's not true, but some places allow only the hemp derived. The big thing is it has to have less than 0.3% THC. Federal government says any product that has less than 0.3% THC is hemp by definition. Okay. Now it doesn't really have to be that way, but that's what they say. Cannabis kills brain cells. No, it doesn't. It can affect cognitive function in adolescence, and that's why we always say nobody under the age of 25 should use anything with THC in it. And of course, the other one, if it's natural, it must be safe. That's not true, because we have allergies and drug interactions and improper dosing comes with risks as well. Now here's something I find is interesting, and Dr block talked a little bit about this, the US federal government doesn't recognize the potential benefits of cannabis. That's not true either, because US government's been involved in patenting cannabis related inventions through this patent number right here, and it was granted in October of 2003 and what is interesting is the patent acknowledges potential therapeutic applications such as limiting neurological damage following ischemic insults. Okay. Now the big rubber thing is it's schedule one, which means you it has no established or no non medical use, which that's what schedule one says. But that not is not necessarily true. That's why they're talking about trying to drop it in schedule de schedule it like they did with EPI dialects, it came out as schedule five, right? And the schedules just have to do with potential of abuse. Well, no one was abusing that, so immediately they knocked it out of the schedule. So it's not scheduled. Epidiolex is not a schedule product anymore. Okay? US Patent and Trademark Office has issued various patents on this and for what they say, and I took this from them for distinct cannabis strains, you're going to find that I won't use the term strains, because strains are microbiology terms. These are either cultivars or chemo VARS. That's the proper terminology, all right. And we'll wait to see what the legalization does on here. This, I thought was pretty interesting. This is direct, if you, if you go to the reference that I had listed there from the Federal patent, it says inhabitants have been found to have antioxidant properties unrelated to NMDA receptor antagonism. And it goes on and it says wide variety of use, oxidation Associated Diseases, ischemic age related age related diseases, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. It's been found to be a neuroprotectant, and on it goes. And then they talk about use in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and HIV dementia. So as I mentioned, we got to talk a little bit about the endocannabinoid system, just because it's so natural and we don't hear about it. Nobody learns about it in school. I understand that maybe some of the universities are going to try to talk about this, but they're not going to talk about much more, because the medical schools are so damn chock full of things that people have to know there's really no room for this until it is, I guess, more mainstream, shall we say. But keep in mind, it's a signaling system. The endocannabinoid system is a signaling system that is involved in every system in the body, from your respiratory, urogenital, any any system you can think of, muscular system, everything right, immune system, and on it goes, whatever the 12 systems of the body are, it's involved in every single one of them. Now all of the signaling systems have three things in common. They need to have receptors right where the ligands Act, or the molecules will act, okay. Now the receptors, the most common here, are called CB one, CB two, and a new one called CB three, and then the endogenous arachido ligands that's AEA or anandamide, which in Sanskrit means bliss protein or bliss molecule. So you'll see that anandamide in the body and and cannabinoids that stimulate that have to do with mood. And then two AG, which is two arachido glycerol, and then pea, my favorite, Palmy telemide. It's such a favorite that I'm going to go into a little bit of detail on this is such a cool thing, okay? And then the third part are enzymes. And they say enzymes which make them and break them, they make the ligands, or they break them down. The most common one is fatty acid amide hydrolase, we call FA, is unbelievably interesting as far as an enzyme goes, right? So if fall breaks down the endocannabinoids, which you don't want, we want things that inhibit for and I'll go into a little bit about that, that pretty soon, there is something that is kind of kind of controversial. Now, the endocannabinoid deficiency syndrome, they think it's, it's kind of a major contributory component of all chronic diseases. There's a lot of pushback on that, but you will you'll note that there are more cannabinoid receptors and all other protein receptors combined, dopamine, serotonin, GABA, glutamate, all of them combined, 58% of the Trans membrane receptors in the brain, or CB one or cannabinoid receptors. This is just a little schematic here, real quickly on this, and it kind of tells you, like the blue and the orange, kind of where the most concentration of CV one receptor, CB two are and how they are affected here, and then anandamide, the two most prevalent endocannabinoids, right? Anandamide, which is, like I said, the bliss molecule, and then two ag or two arachido glycerol, and that has the some of the effects that this chart shows. I just love this, because the guy floating in the air here, the human endocannabinoid system continuing. It's pervasive. It's everywhere. It plays a key role in many nervous system functions. You can see pleasure, memory, cognition all the way down. One of one of my favorites, is forgetting, and we'll talk about that when we hit PTSD, how the endocannabinoid system is is very instrumental in forgetting things, and then in the immune system. There's some things here that the rules that it plays the endocannabinoid system there. Now the endocannabinoid system here has got a lot of receptor sites, and this is the thing that just is as amazing, because they keep coming up with new ones and new reasons and new things that happen on these and I mentioned CB one, CB, two, and it kind of tells where these things are. Okay? Now, now the trip channels, and I believe this one right here is, is incorrect. I think it's TRB, right. It's transient receptor potential, vandalloid, okay, so they've kind of missed that one there. The other ones are the GPRS. And this is now GPRS are known as those G protein coupled receptors. Those are now known as the CB three receptors. GPR 55 is pretty interesting, because you can see where they're where they're found mostly,

Speaker 1  36:37
but also it's this is something that's been been studied for cannabinoids to act as anti neoplastic agents, GPR, 55 receptors. This is the endocannabinoid deficiency syndrome. Now it can be congenital or acquired. Women are more prone, and then you can see the disease states that are marked by this. And what this means is that people with chronic pain, dysfunctional immune system, and that they have actually not here in the United States, we can't do lumbar punctures to measure the amount of an and a minor to A G, excuse me, that's in the nervous system. We can't do that here. But I forget where, whether it was Germany or someplace like that. They did it. France, they did it. And they have found that in people with these type of disease states, there's definitely a decreased amount of endocannabinoids. And what contributes to this? Well, here's a whole list of things. I think one of the things that is, is really, really important. Is poor diet, lack of exercise, critical. And then again, here is some of the symptoms that are associated with it. Can we say it's causative, maybe, but it correlates, at least with a lot of these things. Now, these maladies at the bottom proven to be directly related to the deficiency syndrome. As I said, these have been studied, and they have measured the endocannabinoids in these type of things, and they have found that there's a great deficiency in these areas. So how do we treat it? That's important, okay, and this list doesn't this look just like the list that we always see of people you know you need to modify your lifestyle, heal your gut, Eat right, exercise, and I'm going to go in a little bit more about that and what exercise does in the endocannabinoid system. And somewhere along the way, my goal is to do an entire presentation on muscle centric health or muscle centric medicine, because muscles are something that we neglect and we don't understand that. It's really an entire system here. And then, of course, look at family type of health and stress. Stress increases fall, okay, stress increases the enzyme that breaks down the endocannabinoids. So as I tell people, I just get rid of your stress, you'll be fine. And then another thing here, of course, is cannabis as a supplement to supplement the endocannabinoid system. And there it is, muscle centric health. What happens to the endocannabinoid system through muscles. What do they do? Well, you can increase the Endocannabinoid levels. It enhances mood and reduces anxiety, and that's the direct effect of anandamide. Pain modulation, too. People know that exercising, and especially resistance training, strength training, lifting weights, right? Really, really, can help with pain modulation and reduces inflammation, supports neuroplasticity. I think there's an entire system that we are now talking about a lot more, which is lifting weights or building muscle, releases BDNF, right? That being brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is involved in neuroplasticity of the brain, which means your cognition keeps up. You build new signaling, new pathways in the brain and the muscles do that, and of course, improve sleep quality. Anybody who's worked out really hard or done anything like that understands that you really will sleep and regulates appetite, metabolism, muscle recovery and then motivation and rewards pathways. So that's what the strength training does. Now, when we talk about phytocannabinoids, right? We've covered the endocannabinoids that the body makes. Now, phyto cannabinoids are from plants. These are plant based exogenous cannabinoids. And here is just six of the over 120 of them that have been discovered. And they're discovering new ones. And if you can imagine, picture any one of these, or combination of these, having an effect on various receptors, and then when we throw in terpenes, they have effects on receptors. This is a highly complex type of of system. Here, of treatment, my favorite here on the right, CBG, cannabigerol in the plant as the plant grows. CBG is the precursor to both THC and CBD. That CBG is formed. First, it's called the mother cannabinoid, and then the others, as the plant grows, are formed. And then here's a nice little chart for it to memorize, if you want to know various areas, pain and sleep, neurological, mood, behavior. This kind of tells you which of the cannabinoids are involved in various things. If you take inflammation here at the top, okay, G, CBC, CBD, and on it goes. We obviously won't go into all of these things, cramps, CBD and THC. I have personal experience of a friend that you know with horrible cramps, CBD combo with little THC knocks them right out. Can't say that for everybody, of course. Now THC versus CBD, the one thing that I want to tell you on this chart, which I stole, obviously, it says over here in CBD that it's non psychoactive. Well, that's not true. We already discussed that, but it means it's not intoxicating. On the left, THC, it's a potent partial agonist of CB one, directly binds to CB one and CB two, if you look over on the right, on CBD, CBD is a negative allosteric modulator of CB one, and it can suppress CB one and CB two receptors. What's a negative allosteric modulator? It goes in to where the receptor site is and just messes it up, modifies the way it is, so THC can't bind as well. Well, what does that mean? Now that means, then, if you have any kind of a cultivar product with CBD and THC. The THC will last a little bit longer. So we're talking about therapeutic effects. That's kind of what we want. Because, as they say, THC drives the books. Okay, there's nothing that CBD can do that is not enhanced by THC. That's a that's a statement that was made by Dr Ethan Russo. And then, you know, we talk about the legalities and all of that kind of stuff here. The chemical composition of these two things are the same. I've mentioned this before in a previous lecture, practically speaking, THC can kill cancer cells. CBD, cannot. It can inhibit the growth. Very important to know if any of your patients, and you know some of you guys, do treat patients with cancer, and if they come to you and they say, Hey, I heard CBD can do this, and I've been taking it, or I'm going to take some CBD and all that kind of stuff, and it's going to knock out my cancer. That is just dead wrong. It is not going to kill cancer cells. They inhibit the growth, may inhibit metastases, but it's not going to kill the cancer. Okay? Now also, CBD can counteract some of THC is negative effects, right? Which is always good. And then at the bottom, main difference, as I mentioned, THC will bond directly, but CBD will not and then what is the entourage effect? And this is important, really important. Raphael mashulin, who I mentioned, Dr mashulin, from Israel, the father of cannabis, did all of these studies, and he found, with the full complement of cannabinoids and terpenes, provided more effective treatment than pure cannabinoid isolates. That's the entourage effect. What has happened here when it went medicinal? People said, Well, it seems as though in a lot of these cultivars, there's more CBD than anything. Therefore, in the way that the big pharma looks at things that must be the active chemical, let's use that and credit all of the good effects that were studied from the combination. We're going to say it was due to CBD and it took off. People sell CBD by the boat load for things, and my my, one of my pet peeves is that they're not getting the results, and that's because they're taking the wrong dog on product. Now the term of, excuse me, of entourage effect really picked up traction when it was published by Dr Ethan Russo. I call him the father of American Cannabis. He and Dustin Sulak are the top two guys. Our own. Dustin Sulak, he showed how they work together in a whole bunch of different things. And his paper in 2011 was called taming. THC, if you want to read the definitive thing on this one thing that's going to make you a scientist in in cannabinoid therapy, that's the thing you want to read. Okay, now what else is in here for the entourage effect? We've got terpenes and terpenoids. Terpenes are carbon groups and hydrogen groups in various stages. Terpenoids have oxygen in them. They're aromatic organic compounds, and plants use these as a defense mechanism. We always say that that when, when there's an attack on a plant, it can't get up and run, so it has to do other things, and it produces these terpenes. Terpenoids,

Speaker 1  46:33
to kill pests is one thing, and then also to put off smell, to attract birds or whatever, to to pollinate the rest of the field. Okay, so that's, that's the so it's got like, an AK 47 which kills things. And then it's got a cell phone. It says, Hey, come on in, in let's, let's spread the wealth here. Okay, now, every cultivar makes a different composition and type of plant, right? Incredible amount of things. I think I've heard that there are over 400 terpenes in plants. And keep in mind one thing is that in the cannabis plant, there are no terpenes that are not found in something else. Okay, so it doesn't have anything that is unique to it as far as terpenes go, cannabinoids, yes, terpenes, no. Okay, and then here's, here's something fun here at the bottom that we like to talk about, monoterpenoids have carbon 10 skeleton, sesquiterpenoids, C 15, diterpenoids, C 20 and triterpenoids, C 30. Okay, so that's just a little chemistry. There for you, the pharmacology. They're lipophilic and permeate cell membranes. Some of them cross the lead brain barrier. They can Turpin terpenes and terpenoids can modulate THC activity, but they block some of the cannabinoid receptors as well, right? And then also, they can remodel the G coupled proteins via receptor mechanisms, and then alter the pharmacokinet, which we kind of talked about, they can inhibit receptor binding, so the elimination is not the same rate in some plants With higher terpenes. All right now there are, I guess, two in the parlance that you'll find people talk about two types of cannabis. They'll say indica and sativa. Indica is kind of slang. They say, well, that's in the couch. And that means anything with, you know that they call an indica is kind of, you know, couch lock, sit there and vegetate, I guess. And that basically is due to a terpene called mersine. It's not due to the cannabinoids itself. It's due to the Mersenne. And then some of the other terpenes have body effect, which will actually stimulate you a little bit. So we want to get rid of the terms indica and sativa strains. But it's never going to happen, right? I mean, you just have to deal with it. It always it was even so distinguishable that sativa plants were tall and thin, 1020, feet high. Indica plants were short and bushy. They became more prevalent around the world because when you grew them, it was harder for the authorities to find them, helicopters and all that kind of stuff flying over these these fields. They couldn't tell because they were growing underneath other plants. Just a little hint for you, in case you in case you want to grow. Here's the entourage effect, terpenes, flavonoids, cannabinoids. I hope you can see all of these things open. It's bright enough, but there are tons of these. And there's only, only this amount on the chart, because it filled the chart. There's a lot more that are involved here. And then here's some of the terpenes, and kind of a chart on what they do and how they act, all right, so limonene, pining, Mersin, linalu and carry offline. Carry offline is very interesting, because carry offline actually has a cannabinoid structure. It looks like a cannabinoid. And so the regulatory people don't exactly know what to do about that. They don't want to call it a cannabinoid, because it has terpene type properties in it. So they just leave it alone and ignore it. Okay? And then, you know, here's this thing I like this, you know, the aroma, the effects, the medical benefits, strains. I hate that term. And then also found in other things. Remember I told you, these are these. Are these. Terpenes are found in plenty of other type of things. They pining is one of the best pining counteracts short term memory loss that some of the cannabinoids can can cause and and it pining helps with cognition. Okay, now the ratios we kind of touched on this is kind of important. Here is the ratios of the various cannabinoids when I showed you that slide with those six of them on there, one of them was CBN cannabino, that is purported to be able to help sleep more than any of the other cannabinoids. The the argument is that, no, it might be the terpenes, okay, but if you have a right, a higher ratio of CBN cannabinoid, then chances are you have something that's going to be a little bit more sedating. And then the terpenes, right? They are also involved in all of the therapeutics based on the amount or the content that's there. And then flavonoids. We're not going to go into kind of Flavin A and B, quercetin. We've all seen that that's in here. Epigenin am for all. Now I want to talk about the orchestral effect. And when we get to the science part of the area where we talked about the mechanisms of action and all that kind of stuff. I'm going to buzz through that stuff because that's that's the science part. And I want you to understand that the science is so vast now and becoming so popular that they're discovering new mechanisms of actions, new receptors that are that are being activated by the the cannabinoids. What the orchestral effect is, is what it says therapeutic enhancement with additional ingredients. Okay, so it's enhancing CBD with pharmaceutical agents for improved therapeutic outcomes, almost a natural thing that should be done, especially when I told you that, you know, CBD sometimes does certain things, sometimes doesn't. Depends upon how much, depends upon what else is in there. Well, if you're going to target certain therapies, maybe you should put some other things in there that also will help with that. And then we'll, we'll kind of, we'll kind of go into that a little bit the pharmaceuticals and nutraceuticals can be combined with CBD. And notice that all a lot of times I'll say CBD, but when I say CBD, I generally mean a full spectrum plant, CBD, THC, CBG, CV and all of that, right? But combined with CBD to achieve brain neuro chemical balance, you can accelerate therapeutic outcomes, and you can create tailored solutions to to problems. And that's one thing I really want to stress to everybody here, is that with your patients now, you don't have to recommend things, but it's always nice to know. And if somebody asks and maybe you do want to recommend things, because there's such great, safe, therapeutic uses here, you're going to want to know that there are differences, all right, that that is important to know, and that the the formulations of orchestral products can help target those things, whether it be sleep or anxiety or depression or pain or anything like that. Here's some examples used in the orchestral effect, some of the amino acids L, tryptophan, weight control, depression, theanine, phenomenal, phenomenal amino acid promotes a sense of calmness and relaxation. Melatonin, you guys heard of this does a lot of things, your rest, relaxation, antioxidant, high doses tyrosine or depression, phenylalanine assists with pain control by modulating endorphin production. There's a school of thought that says too much phenylalanine will cause pain. We don't want that nutraceuticals, curcumin, anti inflammatory BioPerine has no therapeutic effects, but what it does is it enhances the absorption of various things, curcumin, especially, and cannabinoids, which they just found out bioprene can help. Biopreneur is black pepper. It can help with the absorption. And then methyl Sulfonyl methane, MSM reduces inflammation and and whatnot. Okay, so here's some of the areas of treatment of the cannabinoid therapeutics, right? The whole list of these things that I haven't covered them all the ones with asterisks by them are things that we're going to touch on as we go anxiety, sleep, pain, epilepsy, cancer, PTSD. And then here's something funny. Everybody's always looking at chat, GPT and AI just asking, how many articles are there written about the therapeutic uses of cannabis and CBD? They say over 100,000 articles have been written on this,

Speaker 1  55:31
okay, chronic pain. Now this is where we're going to get into the weeds a little bit. And I don't want to spend too much time here, but I will just touch on some of the activities and the way that these things will work and some of the important things right for chronic pain, the cannabinoids cause activation in the CD one receptors. They suppress pain signals in the PAG, Thalamus, medulla and amygdala as well as the spinal cord. Do you remember the PAG the periaqueductal gray area of the brain that's surrounds the central aqueduct, that's theoretically where we sense the pain. Pain is in the brain. Opioids work in this place too. And I think there's not too many other areas in the brain that opioids act, but there sure are other areas in the body that that the cannabinoids will will react. And then opioid crisis, as I hear, begs for cannabinoid treatments with limited side effects. And then cannabis can treat the source of pain while improving depression, not causing it. And then there's a link between mutations in genes that control the ECS endocannabinoid system, the perception of pain, snips and far associated with decreased pain sensitivity. There's a case of a woman in Britain who had no fatty acid amide hydrolase, zero fall, and she didn't feel any pain because the endocannabinoid system blocked everything, right? And she didn't live that long, but I think her life was a mess as she was living it, because, you know she fall, you could break a bone and not even know it. Now, here's some orchestral adjuncts that can be used when treating pain. And you'll see these in various products, not too many of them out there, as I mentioned, curcumin, MSM methyl, spinal methyl, and phenylalanine, my favorite Palmach, noise, glucosamine, chondroitin, arnica, various things like that. Curcumin, we're not going to go too much into that, but we'll say alleviates pain as an anti natural anti inflammatory agent with arthritis, natural bone protective agent prevents cartilage degeneration, helps arthritic conditions. There's also evidence that can have some anti cancer stuff. My favorite, pea, Palma, telefinal, amide. If you look up pea, if you Google pea, you're going to get the first thing, I think, is the Philadelphia equestrian Association. That's not it. So I think you got to go to P period a period pea. Rather, it's an endocannabinoid like molecule. I don't know if you remember, I should have mentioned it. The structure of an andamide is, is this aliphatic carbon chain here, anandamide and two ag or aliphatic chains of carbons. The phytocannabinoids are all phenol groups, benzene rings, all of that kind of stuff, and the body breaks down aliphatic chains in general, in this specific example, faster than it does the aromatic hydrocarbon chains. That's why excision is or plant cannabinoids last longer than endocannabinoids. Endocannabinoids are pretty fleeting. Endocannabinoids are site specific, which means if you have pain from your finger or whatever, then the endocannabinoids are going to go to that area and block the nervous impulses from the finger the spinal cord to the brain, right? That is site specific. If you have cramps, the endocannabinoids will be released there based on the condition. The endocannabinoids are site specific, and they are not stored in granules, like other neurotransmitters. They're made on demand, right? So the cannabinoids are not that's why using cannabinoids can actually help in a variety of things. Some people say, Well, gosh, you know, this helps my migraine. And other people say, Well, how can that be? That helps my irritable bowel? You know? How can that be? Well, that's because the phytocannabinoids go all over the body and act as as a modulator, right? It's, it's all based on homeostasis. When people say, Well, that can't be, right? Cannabis is CBD. It can't do all that kind of stuff. And I said, No, it only does one thing. It provides homeostasis. It provides it everywhere, but it only does homeostasis. It doesn't knock out and kill things. Okay? It serves as part of the complex communication network. Is Palmetto ethanol, amide. It's found naturally in eggs, in a variety of other plant sources. Since it's found in the human body. They're not going to patent it. It works tremendously well for pain, but nobody uses it out there. They will not make products out of it, because you can't patent it, and they don't want to manufacture things that you can't patent. So pea, keep that in mind, phenomenal for pain and inflammation, unbelievably well, something that's easy to get, it is not cheap, but it works. And there's and the science on this is amazing. I won't go into it, but they they did dose studies on anywhere from 300 to 1200 milligrams a day for different durations and and is a slight dose improvement in pain with that, but duration didn't matter. So you could have 300 milligrams for, you know, three months, or 1200 milligrams for three months, and you had about the same results. And okay, palms, egg, yolk, soy, etc. And as I mentioned, the structure is much more like anandamide, which is aliphatic and two AG, synthesized by all cells in the body. And pea is produced in high levels during any stress to the body. We make PDA, okay, and it enhances ECS activity and reduces mast cell activation. I know that there are people that really talk about mast cell syndrome and and all of this kind of thing. Well here is something that can possibly help with that right and then direct action on the so called CB 3g protein coupled receptors that we talked about, GPR 55 and GPR, 119, and I like this as a direct faux inhibitor. Competitive binding is greater than an and amide, so it's going to inhibit the faux so when FA tries to bind to anandamide to to knock it out, this can inhibit that right by binding to the Fauci PA and pain. Here's a couple of studies here, meta analysis, pain relief, you know, 743, patients, 460, placebo and all that. Oh, here's our daily dose of 312, 100 milligrams, 10 to 180 days. No association between wrong longer treatment. The authors found that compared two weeks of pea versus ibuprofen, and 24 patient arthritis and TMJ, the patients given pea had significantly decreased pain compared to those of ibuprofen. Next thing is methyl sulfona, methane. Won't go too much into this from green plants, if you get into the weeds, as far as how methyl Sulfonyl methane works, it's the sulfur in there, like DMSO di methyl sulfox, the sulfur in there that I believe causes Repolarization of nerve fibers. Hydrogen sulfide is the active form of that which is involved in the in the nerves, and so I don't think we need to do much more about that. How does it work? Alleviate symptoms by stimulating production connective tissue and cartilage in the joints. So that's one of the major benefits. When they used to say joint pain, take glucosamine, chondroitin and MSM. The MSM was also not only helping with pain, what was was helping with stimulating production of connective tissues, and what's it used for pain, arthritis, decreased muscle damage from exercise, so people that that use this routinely after a workout, will will have decreased muscle damage, and it boosts the immune system, fights infections or helps with allergies. Phenylalanine, not going to go too much into this. This is marketed as a nutritional supplement for its reported analgesic and antidepressant activities, as far as I know, it's the only amino acid that is involved in pain pathways that could be not 100% true, but at least this is the one that is most known and Most studied. It's been studied at Cornell Baylor and Colorado State University departments of veterinary medicine for pain in dogs. It works really well. And of course, down here at the bottom, possible blockade by D phenylalanine. There's D and elephant Alan alanine of in kevalin degradation by this enzyme, carboxypeptidase. A Here's more of this stuff. What's it used for? The body needs phenylalanine to make other

Speaker 1  1:05:30
amino acids, okay, tyrosine, epi and nor EPI, dopamine. And since phenylalanine is used to make these molecules, it's been used and currently studied for its its use as an adjunct for depression as well as pain, which is pretty bioprene, I told you, it is a supplement that really good products have in it, because it's going to help the absorption of everything. Sleep Disorders, I know that woman mechanism of action interaction with the endocannabinoid system directly influences. CB one, CB two receptors modulation of GABA and glutamate systems. I think, from what I understand, GABA is the only neurotransmitter that suppresses something. Most of the neurotransmitters enhance something, and this one acts contrary to that. So if you enhance GABA, it's much easier to fall asleep. And then you know, anxiolytic and and pain reduction from cannabinoids also will help with with sleep. CBD interacts with serotonin, five, HT, one, a receptors. If anybody wants to get in their weeds on that, go do some research on what SSRIs are and what they do and why they're called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. They work at this site as well, but not the other serotonin sites, okay? Anti inflammatory. We talked about this. Here's here's trip p1 and P part, gamma receptors, right? Other other mechanisms here, as far as regulation of REM sleep and all of that and then and it can cut down, help cut down disturbances from nightmares and PTSD people, dopamine modulation, impact on adenosine signaling and then circadian rhythms. Okay? So if we can, if we can normalize some of the circadian rhythms, that's phenomenal, right? I mean, if you can, if you can optimize that by going to bed at the same time, getting up the same time, that type of thing, you're you're doing yourself a great service. Here's some references here. There's hundreds of them. I just picked up five. Here's some orchestral products they may contain, and this is what you'd like to see in a CBD product. Don't just give me the CBD, because I'm not sure how much is in there. I don't trust your labels, and I don't know exactly how it's going to act. So if you have something that's got some melatonin, good GABA, great theanine, tryptophan, chamomile, passive, Floria, anxiety, okay, I'm not going to mention any of these things here, because we are not talking about any drugs. We're not mentioning any names of anything. But as you can see, we use everything for anxiety, right? Everything. And then this here, this lady will tell you why she is anxious. There are better alternatives here. And I think when these, when a lot of these things came out, of course, they, they said, well, use it for one to two weeks. And that's about it. Oh, man, people are on these things for decades, right? And side effects we want to talk about here now for anxiety, this is something to to clarify in your mind. I mentioned that one of the things that CBD does by itself pretty well is work on anxiety. There are differences in treating anxiety with CBD and THC. CBD you've got to have. So if somebody's out there and they have anxiety and they're smoking something that's full of THC and not a lot of CBD, they're worsening their condition. They're just putting a band aid on it while they're high, but they're not helping the anxiety that goes on from that okay? And CBD is serotonin receptor modulation. Okay, as I mentioned, agonist of the five, HT, one a receptor. It inhibits the breakdown of an andamide, which we like, right? The endocannabinoid we want that around and directly activates CB, one receptors, GABA and glutamate Balance. Balance is the key to everything, of course, right? Too much glutamate is too much stimulation. I think, when you try to go to sleep and you have, you know, or your anxiety, and you're, you're anxious about every dog on thing, this is what's going to help balance that, knock that down a bit, and then CBD can can reduce cortisol, the stress hormone, which stress causing anxiety, and then neuroplasticity and neurogenesis. We talked about. CBD promotes hippocampal neurogenesis. Here's something scary, counteracting the brain shrinkage seen in chronic anxiety and depression. I didn't want to think about that, that the brain is shrinking every so slightly, but I know I can't. I can't stand to have that under me anymore, okay? And then, THC, this is a little bit different, the complex effects depending upon the dose and the individual, right? This is dose dependent, because higher doses will definitely cause anxiety. So you have to be careful with this. Okay? And even though dopamine release increases dopamine in the brain, which can produce euphoria, but may also contribute to anxiety in some people. So again, if you've got somebody who wants to treat anxiety with this, it would be who you to have them do a little bit of research on any product that they want, or you have something that you could recommend, because we have so much anxiety in in our society, that treatment is almost mandatory for people because they don't function well. They lose time at work, all of these different things that we run into. And if there's a safe and effective type of treatment, my philosophy is, why not give it a go? It's safe, it's effective and affordable. And of course, Dr Clearfield, that is our moniker for our Saturday meetings, right? Safety, efficacy and affordability on all the products that we're looking at. Correct, okay, anxiety, difference between the two. And here's a cool little chart, right? The mechanism right here on the left hand side. And then here's CBD and what it does in THC, okay, so that's just a little comparative chart, so you can see that CBD is, is the main thing here for anxiety. And then differences, still practical considerations. And we mentioned this, you're going to want a CBD dominant strain, cultivar of pure CBD. Okay, that's not bad. And then THC and low doses. Okay? And then here's the thing that's pretty neat, if you use a broad spectrum, which has got all the cannabinoids, and it's got the terpenes, and it's got everything in it, then there are terpenes like linalool or limonene, which enhance the anti anxiety. Linalool is lavender. Limonene is like the lemon fresh stuff in the grocery store, walking down the aisle, everything smells clean, okay? And then CBD takes time to work. Keep that in mind, epilepsy, okay? For the sake of time, we're not going to go too much into this, but I will tell you that there are phenomenal studies out, and I've got some of these here, listed here for epilepsy. The one thing that is it is really neat is that CBD block signals carried by, how do we say this lysophosphatidyl inositol, lysophosphatidylinos, which is found in neurons. I never knew this, and that amplifies nerve signals. Okay, so that's, you know, you amplify nerve signals you're leading to epilepsy, and this thing can reduce the signaling, so can reduce the the onset of seizures. And then, of course, like I mentioned before, and I said this in the very beginning, we're finding so many different receptors in areas where these products work, it's incredible. And here's interaction with the Trip B channels again, okay. And then there's some references in case anybody needs to know this stuff. Anti inflammatory, you know, neuro protective. If the nerves are stimulated or inflamed, you got problems. And then modulation of calcium signaling pathways. It does so many things, antagonism of the GPRS, same type of thing here, and that's highly expressed in the central nervous system. And then interaction with serotonin receptors. We talked a little bit about that, modulating adenosine signaling. It's another anti convulsant type of mechanism or method, and then again, influence on GABAergic transmission and then antioxidant properties as as well. This has stimulated the use of these products for potential therapy against epilepsy. I think many people know the story of Charlotte's Web, a Charlotte Figgy little girl that had all those seizures, and then they started on a high CBD product, and it reduced the seizure and all of that, which led GW to do research on CBD for seizures and all of that kind of stuff. And it does work, but I'm telling you,

Speaker 1  1:15:01
you got to have some THC in there. And you're really, you know, you're not doing the person many favors at all, especially on the pocketbook. Okay, cancer, second leading cause of death in the US. I got a bunch of slides on this. But again, for time sake, I want to get through this type of thing, because I have some other things I think that are practical that I'd like everybody to kind of understand and see again, what I said, THC can kill cancer cells. CBD may inhibit the growth. One thing that that they're finding is that certain cultivars, certain use of cannabinoid products, allows lower doses of chemotherapeutic agents. And in the second thing here, right, common cancer treatments you are, you can actually reduce some of the effects, negative effects of the chemotherapeutics, as we saw, anti nausea, all of these other things, right? Is what this what this does. And then cannabinoids induce apoptosis, or apoptosis in only cancer cells. They're not going to cause other cells to destroy themselves. And then down here at the bottom, CBD, up regulates 680, anticancer genes, and down regulates 524, genes that are pro cancer. I'm telling you, they do a lot of research on this stuff. And then this is why this is one of the main things, is personalized medicine, because not all amounts, all cultivars, all all various amounts of the cannabinoids work the same in everybody. So it's more specific. So you can't go out and say, if somebody wants, you know, kind of treatment for here, or they say, Well, I'm taking a CBD product, or I'm taking a cannabinoid product for for cancer, your first question should be, what is that product? What's in it? If somebody comes to you and says, you know, a good friend or relative or something, lives far away and says, Oh, you know, went to the doctor and, you know, they got me on some heart medication for my blood pressure. The first question you ask is, What? What are you taking? Is it an ACE inhibitor? Is it a beta blocker? Is it an R, you know, Angiotensin Receptor Blocker? Basically, what? What is it? What do you that's the same thing with this. What are you using? We need to know what you're using. And there are some terpenes in there that have got some anti cancer effects. Okay? And then here's a couple of studies that I thought was pretty cool. The third paragraph down between 2015, and 17. Israeli study looked at 202,009 70 cancer patients treated with him, over 50% were stage 420. 5% died, 18% stopped using of the 57% remaining 96% of those reported improved the symptoms of insomnia, pain, nausea and lack of appetite. There's the reference on that. Remember, there's no one size fits all on the cancer. How does it work? Okay, well, induction of apoptosis, or apoptosis, programmed cell death, inhibition of cell proliferation, which both of these do remember? CBD, cell proliferation can slow that down. THC can kill Anti angiogenesis, and we all know that. You know, tumors grow by sending out signals to form their own blood supply their own angiogenesis comes along and helps them with nutrients. And if we can stop the angiogenesis in those type of of tumors, then we're, we're on our way to getting rid of them, an autophagy and necrosis, cell death through mechanisms in the plasmid reticulum and inhibition of mTOR signaling, which is all can of worms, a mechanism of action anti metastatic effects, modulation of the tumor, micro environment, reducing inflammation, altering cytokines, that type of thing, oxidative stress and redox reactive oxygen species generation, I think about that CBD can increase the reactive oxygen species in cancer cells, leading to DNA damage. That's what we want. That's what you know. Reactive oxygen species do they cause damage to the cell in the DNA level, we want that in cancer cells, inhibition of glucose metabolism, the the the glucose theory of cancer growth, put forth by a lot of different people. I don't have the reference here, but Dr Thomas C freed out of Boston College, is big on the glucose theory of cancer. Oxidative phosphorylation is the way cells grow, but cancer cells don't. And so if we can inhibit the glucose metabolism in cancer cells, we can kill them. And then here's another thing, sensitization to chemotherapy and radiation. They've studied this and found out that that works. Okay. And then here is a fairy good over 1000 articles, okay, related to cannabis and CBD and cancer. And here's just a few of them I listed right there, PTSD, I think we're really rushed on time here, so I'm not going to go too much into this thing, but the main thing is the endocannabinoid system helps us forget the example. I give two examples. If you walk in Times Square and you see the car lights, the signs, you know, the people and all of that kind of stuff, if you remembered all of that, your brain would explode. Okay. Now here's another quick example of how the Endocannabinoid helps you forget. How many red cars did you see on the way to work today? Or did you see any red cars you don't remember unless one hits you, right? But, but that's how it works. It helps you to forget. The issue is that some memories are so great that it overrides the Endocannabinoid effects of of stopping the memory. That's why phytocannabinoids can help. They really can. They can help the anxiety. They can help to sleep, and they can help forget. Okay? And then, of course, down here at the bottom, for Joel's benefit, patient, PTSD increased risk of student, more than 22 veterans take their own lives daily, okay? And then there's some studies and animide and PTSD. And then genetics plays a role here too, a snip for the gene in the gene for BNF, which encodes brain derived neurotrophic factor, lowers, results in low levels and poor response to exposure therapy. Okay, so we've got issues here that can be helped by the cannabinoid therapy.

Speaker 1  1:22:01
Too bad we can't give an and amide, but there's no such thing as being able to synthesize that right at this point, here's a couple studies are pretty interesting. Maximum dose of three milligrams of THC for seven weeks, reduced frequency of intensity of nightmares. A small pilot study shown right there an average final dose of four milligrams for an average length of 11 weeks, decreased PTSD associated issues right here. And there is the reference on that. Those studies are pretty interesting. We're almost done. The top uses just a couple references. If you look at these references, it's going to go into every dog on use that is imaginable. Okay, now something that's important, cannabis, drug drug interactions, you need to know this with your patients. This is probably a pretty critical type of slide or something that if you want to recommend something that's a safe alternative to people that have got issues that we have covered, you need to know about drug interactions. The main things are the anticoagulants and, of course, sedative CNS, depressants combined, it like leads to excessive drowsiness and all of that. SSRIs, we don't want to mess with those. Cannabis can alter the serotonin levels, which we talked about, antipsychotics, this is a can of worms, because kids, I'll call them under the age of 25 that are on anti psychotics that use heavy THC, it can exacerbate the psychotic symptoms. So you want to watch out for anybody taking neuroleptics and then stimulants, the same type of thing, because you can increase the heart rate, blood pressure, that that type of thing, people will say that some of the cannabis products increase the heart rate, and that that is true for some people, not true for everybody. That would be an adverse type of effect as well. And then here's some more immunosuppressants, opioids. Yes, there is an interaction there. However, there's a preponderance of evidence that shows use of cannabinoids in people with opioid addiction are able to significantly decrease the amount of opioids used, and also people that are undergoing pain type of episodes, whether it be a broken bone or whatever. And they're given opioids, right? They can reduce the amount that they take by taking cannabinoid products. I've seen this personally, which we won't get into now, and then proton pump inhibitors and then anti seizure medications. Here it's only like there's only 10 of them, and it's not hard to remember these things. Okay, important things we're really close to done here. Important features you should look for before you recommend a product, soil content. I'm fond of saying that California has got a lot of arsenic in the soil. Okay? So things grown in California, you have to watch out for the arsenic levels. You want to know if these things are grown from organic or conventional hemp, and where is it grown? Can be important as well. Now this is really critical, the extraction information, the method of CBD isolate or full spectrum CBD products, cannabinoid products, there are a lot of methods of extraction. CO two is probably most popular. There's ice extraction. There's butane extraction, which is absolutely a nightmare. That's how you you you hear of these labs blowing up. People don't know what they're doing with butane, right? Not a good idea, CO two, or ice, or that type of thing. Cold extraction seems to be working a little bit better right now. The certificate of analysis, and I'm going to show you a couple of these, and that's it. On the certificate of analysis, it must be third party tested, and you want the results. So if you're going to recommend something to your patients, you're going to want to have access to a C of a critical. You need to know what's in there, and I'll show you what C of a covers. Keep in mind, it's not as extensive as an MSDS, but it is important, and it's critical for people that are going to take something, especially somebody with other other issues, compounding problems, or the elderly, or something like that. You really need to know what's in it. Speaking of elderly, we have people that have, quote, unquote overdosed on that because we didn't go into this Dr block did the mechanism of actions of these things when you ingest oral cannabinoids, they don't act quickly. It takes some time, and so people will overdose by, you know, eating the one brownie, nothing happens 10 minutes later, eating another one, then they end up in ER because they've eaten five or six of them, it hits an hour later, and they're out of their mind. Least they think they are okay. So you've got to be careful of the method of ingestion on that. And the certificate of analysis will cover heavy metals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, molds. Will also tell you the cannabinoid content and the terpenes in there. So, and I will show you what this is. And then we talked about the amount of THC present, some of these things will say nd, non detectable. Or the new thing they do is Lo Q limit of quantification, meaning they can't find it there. And as we talked about AD infinitive, nauseam, cannabinoid content and ratios, trepinoid content, you want to know that as well. And then the can ofceticals, you call pharmaceuticals, added. And then the products need to be made by professionals, not just, you know, Fred's garage, because they got some leaves, and they grind it up and throw it into something. You know, as far as topical goes, I'm fond of saying you can find topicals out there. The base is what's important. The base is what carries things through the skin. You're going to find people making topical cannabinoid products, using coconut oil as a base, emu oil as a base, motor oil, whatever they can find, okay, that's what they're going to use. You really need to have a highly active base on these kind of things. These are certificates of analysis. So we're going to go quickly. Okay, broad spectrum distillate, covalent CBD. That's what this product was called, done by dB laboratory in Vegas. Now, terpenes, total terpenes. There's no terpenes in this okay, limit of quantification for THC. There's no THC in here. Now you'll notice CB CBC, CBCA, CBD, CBD, a CBD, that's cannabiviron. All of these things are various cannabinoids that they test for. No one tests for. All of them they test for the main ones. If you look at the bottom, Delta eight. THC, we're not going to get into that. That is a new thing that they've isolated. They got delta delta nine is what the product has. Delta eight is synthetic. Delta 10 and all of this. These chemists are out there trying to get people high on these things. If you want to know total THC content, you have to add delta eight, Delta nine. THC A, thc v, thc v, A, that will tell you what you have. This is a product that, basically, I wouldn't recommend anybody. Here's something that's a little bit different. This is a broad spectrum distillate, okay? And I think I lied. I think this is the second page of the one I had here, my mistake. Okay, so broad spectrum means it doesn't have THC, which you saw all right. Now here's what we're testing for pesticides. Little aside on pesticides, not every lab tests all the same pesticides. If you happen to be unscrupulous and you are growing something and you're using a pesticide that works on your farm, you're going to want to find a lab that doesn't test for that, test for everything else, but not that one, right? So it doesn't show up, right? That's why regulation, as Dr block mentioned, regulation is paramount. Pretty soon we're going to have to have that, and then here we're looking at detecting no E coli, Salmonella, mycotoxins, aflatoxins, OK, nothing there. And PPV is parts per billion. So what is that? They say that's a couple of drops in a swimming pool, something like that. This is my pet peeve. All the environmental stuff I've done, arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury, that's all they test for the problem here is that all of these things, and you'll notice that they do show up. They do show up, but it's under the limit for each individual one with heavy metals. We need to know the combination. We need to know how much of all of it is in there, because they're all harmful. My example is like, if, if, if you get a box of donuts and you eat one donut, not, not a lot of sugar, there you test it. Oh, okay, blood sugar is fine. Eat the whole box. Okay. Well, that one glazed donut said it was okay. Well, no, you got to add the whole box. And that's what you have to do with heavy metals. You need to know, need to know how much of all of them are in there. This is just a hole in the testing system, as far as I can tell. Now, residual solvents, this is some of the things that are used for extraction. Butanes, I mentioned propane, ethanol extraction, they obviously can't measure CO two and a CO two extraction. When you do that, you recover most of the CO two, which is, which is pretty cool. All right, here's another one from can vital, okay. Now this is one that is high in THC. Now, remember, you can't have something legally. It's over 0.3% THC. Now it says total potential, because they're adding all the THCs in here, all right? And total potential CBD, if you look down here, you can see, well, THC, a, there's nothing there, but boy, Delta nine is there. There's no delta eight in this one, okay, and that's why the it tests out at 6.61 there's a lot of CBD. The good thing, there is a bunch of CBG in there and CBN in there, which I mentioned to you before, are pretty important when you're talking about cannabinoid therapy. I hope this is the last one. THC free, Crystal resistant distillate. Okay? And so now what the labs are doing too is so people don't cheat as readily, is they are making you send in a final product, and they take a picture of it to show you what they tested, so you can't pull a fast one on anybody and again, here's the full compliments of a lot of cannabinoids, right there. There's a lot of these things. And notice total delta nine. THC, okay, well, that's not the only THC that we need to be concerned with, but they're telling you that the total is 0.05 Well, that's way less than 0.3 so you're thinking, This is good. Total cannabinoids, moisture not tested. That's not a good sign, because fungus likes moisture and time management. I feel the hook. So that should be it. I

Unknown Speaker  1:33:49
don't know if there's any. It's

Bill Clearfield  1:33:51
too bad we didn't, didn't brought on somebody who didn't know a subject. Okay, I try, you know, I think Dr block saw and I like to hear his comment on your

Unknown Speaker  1:34:07
Oh no, he's gonna kill him, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:34:09
oh yeah, I know. I loved it. Thank you, Bob. You know I'm not up with all of the details that you PharmD guys know, and even from naturopath, because my background is different. But I did take note of when you were mentioning the British Journal study about the lady with the FAU de lesion, micro deletion problem, an extraordinarily high anandamide. I thought I had heard you say that she didn't live long. But as far as I remember, in that paper, it even references her as I tried to look up if she died, because that paper is from 2019, but even in that paper, it refers to her at 66, and 70 years old, which, if you think about it, kind of remarkable that she could live that long

Speaker 1  1:34:59
it is I had, my understanding was that that she had died her like in her 30s, but I'm glad to see that, you know, you found out that she didn't. That's great.

Speaker 5  1:35:09
Yeah, it references in the paper that was published in the British Journal about her age, and that was one of the more remarkable things. She could feel, sensation. It just wasn't interpreted as pain. So it's it's not like she put her hand on a hot stove and just smile away. Didn't evoke all of the emotional responses that were typically associating with pain. And so the interplay with the mind, let alone the body, and proprioception, touch and pain, sensation, it was kind of fascinating. With the rules of hand to my place,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:43
that's unbelievable.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:47
Nothing else other than they enjoyed listening to you.

Speaker 1  1:35:49
Oh, well, thank you. I I'm not as accomplished as you, and my slides suck.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:53
Oh, I don't know about that.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:56
We'll get we'll give you an A minus. Then Bob, okay. And Jeff, we need you. Hello. We need you back.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:09
Oh, well,

Speaker 5  1:36:11
you know where they've asked me to give a talk in April. The University of Mississippi does an annual spring meeting, and I'll be speaking there on April 8, but they've sort of given me the lead in their cannabis division this year, and letting but they're letting me talk about the potential therapeutic applications. And you know, this is your show, Bob. I don't want to take away from

Speaker 1  1:36:39
that. No, that's food for thought. Food for thought. It takes more than one of us to cover this subject.

Speaker 5  1:36:46
Well, here's what I'm amazed with. You know, different specialties have different biases to how they present this subject, and I may have covered in one of Bill's talks, my disappointment essentially that psychiatry can't come to a consensus with the same training. You've got some doctors who think it's wonderful, and others who think, what do we need another you know, dependence forming drug out there. So they're letting me speak to that to the extent that what I I had met with mashulin Back in 2017 he's gone now, yeah, but he wrote a nice testimonial for a book chapter where I referenced things about pain, but not simply pain, pain and pleasure with respect to the ability to Forget extremes of either extremes of pain associated with PTSD. If you can't get it out of your mind, it becomes a problem for your mental health. And the same thing with if you can't forget the allure of pleasure. So he said that there's several 100 molecules, a lot like anandamide, in that part of the brain, the hippocampus. And what he says is it takes a tremendous amount of energy to produce them, and he doesn't imagine that God just put them there for the fun of it. And so one of the subjects they're letting me speak about in Mississippi is the potential for modulating what you forget being essential components on what he ultimately comes out to be the major determinants of personality, those people that seek something or or resist it, we all fall we've all had different experiences. So what's what makes one person so different than another in their response. You know, if you ever want to meet somebody who you think, gee, that person has a very healthy endogenous endocannabinoid system. And I'm not saying they're using weed. They're not. They just seem to go with the flow and always have a cheery, not medic disposition, but something that's always well balanced, and that's the way people would interpret that person's personality. So it's intriguing to think that a biochemical basis of personality may exist through cannabinoids. So

Speaker 1  1:39:15
you think possibly, maybe people that are like more mellow or whatever, might have higher levels of anandamide.

Speaker 5  1:39:21
I didn't say necessary of anandamide. These are other chemicals, yeah, sort of cousins, and we don't know why they're there or what they do. So it's not quite as connected directly to anandamide as to other chemicals in that parts of the brain that determine memory, short term memory in particular.

Speaker 1  1:39:40
Wow. God, that's great. When is this? When are you going to be there?

Speaker 5  1:39:44
It's the week of April, 7 through the 10th. What do they call it? The 23rd or 24th one's called a convention. Another's called a Congress. But they bring in largely PhDs from all around the world. It has international funding, and there's a lot of FDA people who go to this so I'm invited to lead off a talk, and I get to introduce el Sully, who will follow me. Oh, there you go. So yeah, this it's a fascinating field, and I'm enjoying that they're willing to listen to a physician botanist, and that's why I'll solely ask me, because I grow a lot of plants, that's sort of what I bring to it.

Speaker 3  1:40:25
Yeah, perfect. I have a question for you. Okay, you mentioned that the product produces L the I mean, no,

Speaker 1  1:40:40
no, no, that's something that can be added to a product.

Speaker 3  1:40:44
Or you can add the LTI. Because I was wondering. I knew that it was from green tea, but I was thinking that maybe the plants, the conavinoid plants, also produce Lt.

Speaker 1  1:40:56
No, that that was on the slider I was talking about, I probably went too fast when we orchestral effect, where we're adding other pharmacological agents, you know, amino acids like L theanine, tryptophan, for various uses, that's kind of what that was about, right? Okay,

Speaker 3  1:41:13
so you know the amino acid, rheumatic amino acid, phenylalanine, l, tryptophan, tyrosine, they're all inhibited by glyphosate.

Speaker 1  1:41:33
Oh, here we go again, right? Yeah. What doesn't that do?

Speaker 3  1:41:37
Yeah? So the glyphosate inhibited them through does she commit? Does she commit shopping? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:43
right. So,

Speaker 1  1:41:46
boy, oh, boy. That opens a can of worms. I mean, if we want to be better and treat things, you know, as we always say, you know, got to start at the top and got to avoid some of this stuff as best you can. Right? Amazing. And Dr block, I want to thank you. For you, he enlightened me to the fact that the University of Mississippi, he didn't touch on this, but that, that's, I say, that's a heavy place, okay, that's where the the grow is for the government. Let's say, if you want to study something or that kind of thing, that's where you get product. That's where people have gotten product Correct. Doctor block, I mean it they, they used to say it was terrible stuff, but now, apparently they know what they're they're doing. They've really kind of perfected the grow?

Speaker 5  1:42:40
Well, it's actually about 45 years now that El sole himself has run those labs, he's 80 years old now, wow, but you're right, and it's through a political thing years ago, and why it's there, but all of the federal government's research cannabis for those years, which is largely through the National Institute of Drug Abuse. Remember, there is no National Institute of Drug use. So most of the things that they've studied, looking for the negative effects, which is what the focus of those studies would be, have had to come through government, grown or sanctioned, license, whatever they call it. So in fact, Dr el soli is the federal government's grower, not a kid in Colorado or California,

Speaker 1  1:43:23
right, right? Much more trustworthy. Hey.

Speaker 6  1:43:28
Dr, Quinn, your presentation was excellent. Thank you. Dr, detailed, and all the mechanism is there. I would like to work with you and putting a book, because that's what I'm doing. Currently, I'm writing books. So if you can send me your your article that you have presented today, I can use the AI. We can generate a book out of it. Then I'll send it back to you, for you edit, add imaging there, and then we can create some reference book. So that's one. The second part is CBD versus narcotics. Both of them. They have similar mechanism in terms of causing euphoria and energetic.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:22
Yeah, that's like the new receptors or something. Yeah,

Speaker 6  1:44:25
the pures work on me receptors, but CBD works on their own receptors. But they, they there is a lot of overlap, because both the the opioids and the CBD cause hyper polarization of the pain through opening up potassium channels. The difference is that the opioids open up calcium channels, which leads to oxidative stress, activation of NOx enzyme, while the CBD inhabit those calcium channels, and that will prevent the oxidative stress that opioid is causing, and that's the reason we can use it as a way to wean patients from narcotics, because it's causing the same effect of energies, energetic, hyper polarization of the pain pathways, but one is blocking the calcium channels. Other one is stimulating. CBD blocks of calcium channels, which helps in decreasing the oxidative stress. And once you decrease oxidative stress, you increase the sensitivity of the meal receptors. And that's how you regain the whole neuroplasticity back, because those oxidative stress goes rigid, or neuroplasticity, where the patient, if to the euphoria that's being produced by the narcotics. When you break that and you open it up, those new receptors and you induce oxidative stress, those neuroplasticity restored back to normality, where they can form a new circuits with new pleasure of performing other activities, so the reason we think that CBD will help in drug addiction, but I think adding loading those CBD with psychodextrin and delivering it intranasally or sublingual, and also adding prognolon, prognolon, which is the byproduct of, well, pregnant alone is before progesterone. It's coming from it's a new steroid, prognolon. Prognolon is being used for epilepsy as well. It's not as effective as other pregnant alone, because pregnant turns to other pregnant. But you allopregnanone is maybe more of synthetic, and I don't think you can use the supplements, but you can use prognolon and with your CBD, and you can do sublingual, you know, tablets, loading up the cyclodextrin, and I think that's the best way of developing something that's going to be innovative.

Speaker 1  1:47:00
That's a good thought with cyclojection, right? You know, I mean, is the recording off? No, oh, okay. Well, there are people out there that making these products, and as far as a new and innovative delivery system that may be a winner, right

Speaker 6  1:47:20
along with prognolon. I think there's a lot of synergistic there. It helps to come and anxiety. And I think I learned that from Dr airfield, he's the one to produce, introduced to us, that progesterone works through all of prognolon and prognolon. And I think prognolon, because it's supplement, it works very good with CBD and loading and cyclin and creating sublingual tablets, I think it's going to be a win for patient with pain and yeah, yeah, can possibly epilepsy.

Speaker 1  1:47:58
Yeah, I could see something like that in a sublingual spray as well,

Speaker 6  1:48:03
right, right? But psychoduction is critical so you can get, you can enhance the absorption of of it and getting more instant, more effective results than just CBD, because it will bypass receptor. You don't need the, you know, shuttles. It goes through endocytosis when you do it with psychodextrin.

Speaker 1  1:48:29
Okay. Now, one thing about this, and I know, Doctor block, you touched on this as well. Oral ingestion of Delta nine THC is is in the GI tract. It's changed. It's modified into 11 hydroxy THC, which is actually stronger than regular THC. So that plays well if you're using a pain product orally with some MSM pea and these other things that plays well to kind of enhance the amount of THC in there, which should also translate into maybe a better therapeutic effect. So I think oral ingestion is pretty good in that regard. With THC,

Speaker 5  1:49:13
it's not just potency Bob, it's duration of action, both about three to four times before, times c and delta nine. And so in that sense, perhaps there's more of a rationale to take it before bedtime Exactly. Smoking something would last maybe an hour or two, but that could take you several hours

Speaker 1  1:49:31
Exactly, exactly good point, and that's why people that make effective sleep products understand that.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:44
Okay, couple of comments and questions in the in the chat. Also Bob, so sure. So Doctor Arnott says CBG is great, and it's, it's the most any cancer cannabinoid in cannabis. Problem in Florida is it's hard to find products at dispensary with significant amounts of CBG in it can't be

Speaker 1  1:50:03
looking at. Dispensaries are not the best place to find anything therapeutic. As far as I know, I've seen a lot of been in a lot of them, talked to a lot of them, and, you know, correct me if I'm wrong, but they're making money getting people high.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:19
Okay? He also states that most terpenes in cannabis cause apoptosis of cancer cells. Has anyone done the RSO 60 gram and 90 day protocol in any of the cancer?

Speaker 1  1:50:31
Yeah? Rick Simpson oil, that's really, really potent. THC, type of stuff. I'll tell you something else that I didn't mention here, as far as cancer goes, which is, there is a, I believe his name is bullshit, our redeese, which, or something like that. He's in, he's a text check physician treating cancer in patients, children with extremely high dose THC and Dr Block Help me with this one, high dose THC, given rectally does not cause intoxication. So he's had tremendous results doing this kind of thing, and I believe he got thrown in jail. But if you can give something like that, like RSO or something. That's Rick Simpson oil, for people don't know. And Rick Simpson, of course, like you said, Dr black, he probably doesn't want his name associated with any of that stuff. He that is high, high. THC, and there are people out there that take so much of that for like, six months to get rid of their cancer, and they don't, they're just high the whole time, and it doesn't seem to be that pleasant. So if you can do it rectally, boy, I think that's a winner, but I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:54
Another question for epilepsy, does it matter if it's an indica species versus sativa, which increased psychosis and paranoia regardless of CBD content.

Speaker 1  1:52:09
Remember, indica and sativa, as we talked about, are misnomers there. There's been so much cross breeding and all of this kind of stuff that once again, you really have to look at the at the cannabinoid content and the terpene content and all of that kind of stuff. You can't make that generalization, you know, is, is, is coke more thirst quenching than Pepsi? I don't know. You know. I mean it, it has to do with the person and the individual products that are there. And I'll tell you the way, my way of thinking is that you don't go in and I give you that blood pressure analogy, just because you're on a beta blocker doesn't mean, oh, that's it. That's what works, right? I mean, you may have to explore and try different things with with different cannabinoid concentrations or content or ratios. I don't think there's one way to say that's the one and that does it.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:14
Are there any markers that might help us pick one species versus another that you know of Oh,

Speaker 1  1:53:21
what a great question. Dr block, do you have any thoughts on that? Because I really I wouldn't know, and I will tell you that my goal as far as research goes, is to test as many varietals, will we say, chemo bars of this plant for various specific applications. I think that's where we have to go before we are accepted into mainstream. There have got to be people that are licensed growers, licensed extractors, licensed producers, licensed manufacturers, that are all all. I would guess you would say, have oversight that know what they're doing, look at the specific type of constituents that are in there, and test those against various maladies. I mean, I wish I could say, You know what alpha pining is, the is the greatest Well, probably I'd say linalool or limonene would be better type of things, because they're going to calm you for epilepsy than other things. I don't know if I would venture to say, Oh, you got to have it or that's the only thing that would work. But that's what I would look for, is something that has got maybe calming type of terpenes.

Speaker 5  1:54:43
You know, there has been some recent news here in Florida where I am, there was a company that I helped pull together, the principal people, owners, growers, you know, Processors and Things, that submitted a license application two years ago, and it should have taken just six months, but the politics got in the way. About six weeks ago, they announced of 74 applicants for 20 licenses that team I pulled together got one good we scored higher than any of the other 73 but it means that possibly as early as later this year, if I would be their medical director. And that's the ultimate plan. That's the only legal way I can hybridize the plant, right? It might happen I'm playing now with tropical ornamentals. That pays a lot better than anything in campus I found. So, wow, yeah, but it might happen, because at least Florida is slowly coming around that way, with expanding, extending a few more licenses here.

Speaker 1  1:55:46
Oh, that that's good. You know, you speak of legalities, and you said the producers and the growers and all of that. I'll tell you what California did, since there's such a grow up the Emerald triangle, right, Humboldt area and and there are grows all over the state. It's a big state, as we know. So how do they control it? What? What do they do? They have put the onus on the transportation people, right? If you are transporting this product, you can only pick it up from a licensed producer, and you can only deliver it to another licensed entity, or you're at fault and can lose your license. Because everybody wondered, well, if somebody's going to make some stuff, how do we know what they have? Right? Well, California decided everybody in the food chain has got to have a license and a permit. And of course, that's big bucks anyway. But what you say Dr block is very encouraging, because if you can put together something like that as a team to do some high level work, that's what we need. That's I'm anxious to follow along and see what these guys do. Well, I

Speaker 5  1:57:02
don't know in the future years if the collaboration between where I have my affiliation in the University of Miami would be interested in that, because all of the agricultural work comes out of Gainesville, Florida, the other side, yeah. So I don't know what'll become of it. If I had to find a place to start. It would be trying to find chemovars. Again, strains not the word that represented more of an even balance between THC and CBD. Sure, that's what many of the land race fields that were discovered and still are around in a few places in the world that was showing human cultivation from hundreds to 1000s of years ago. And then you have to think that the plant evolved along with people to that balance for a reason, because land raised fields represent not only the constraints of the land they're grown on, but the needs of the people who are cultivating it is right. So other than Harlequin ACDC, very few other things haven't even balanced like the older varietals did. So in essence, what I'd like to do is recreate an heirloom variety, like a strawberry or a tomato that you just can't find anymore because they don't look on the shelves in the grocery store.

Speaker 1  1:58:17
Heirloom Seeds. I think there's places out there where you can get them, but I don't know if you try if you trust those. I don't know. I mean, if you want to grow Afghani Kush, I think you can find seeds, but I don't know.

Speaker 5  1:58:35
Just about everything out there are descendants of Afghani Kush, which is why they have so much mirror scene, which is hypnotic. You brought up a few other terpenes, from pining to little and all I'd say is I would be starting from a balanced THC CBD ratio, and then try to develop robust terpene profiles around,

Speaker 1  1:58:58
yeah, yeah. I don't know if you're familiar with Arno has a camp. The IS HE Dutch scientists that did a ton of work on terpenes. Oh, boy, it's amazing. I'm firmly convinced that terpenes are the thing that are really causing a lot of therapeutic effects.

Speaker 5  1:59:19
It sort of makes sense also biochemically, because the same molecule, gerano pyrophosphate that leads to all of the cannabinoids also leads to all of the terpenes, yeah. So, you know, there's a there's a sensibility about it. Bob,

Speaker 1  1:59:37
yeah, no, I agree. And as I said at the very beginning, my goal. And Dr Clearfield, you always ask, you know what parting type of shots? And I'll just throw this out there now, is my goal

Bill Clearfield  1:59:48
is not a shot.

Speaker 1  1:59:53
Oh, well, okay, parting words of wisdom. Shot is a medical term. My goal here for this was to have people understand that there is a lot of science involved. It's not just willy nilly. It's not just somebody going something in the backyard that works for every you know, whatever ails you, that there is a reason to to have confidence in this due to the safety, as we say, uh, Dr black, they've been doing a phase one safety study on this plant for 10,000 years. Okay, so phase one is done. We know it's pretty safe, all right, so if you're safe in that, and then you know how to evaluate products that are out there, and you have patients that will either ask or you can recommend, or you can suggest, or something like that. My goal is to make you feel more comfortable in that to understand what goes behind it. Now, if you combine with Dr Brock's presentation and what I said, I think you should have a feeling that this is some strong science, and we're, we're not even close to being done, right, but we do have things that do work, and if you, if you want to do that, I want you to feel comfortable that you can do that. I'm not suggesting anybody change their practice. You know, to be like dust and Sulak, but you know, it can be adjunctive. And again, I hate to see some patient get something out there that they don't know what it is and it doesn't work, and they give up on the whole therapeutic angle of this. And if they ask their physician, my goal is to make sure that you have a little basis and a little background to say some things that are important, and it'll help educate that person to make good decisions. Okay, all right, are there other questions? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:01:58
sativa with pining seems to cause anxiety in some could this possibly lower seizure threshold? It

Speaker 1  2:02:05
may in some. Again, pining is more stimulating. There is the Japanese practice called Shin Rin Yoku, which is forest bathing. They go out in the forest and sniff the pining to get mental stimulation and mental clarity. So I'm not sure I would think of having pining in there, not just off the top of my head.

Speaker 5  2:02:34
Anybody remember the name Jack Herrera? Oh, yeah, Fort you guys, right? Yeah, if you went back 30 or more years, you could buy like the finest in the day, in a redwood box and everything. But back then, there was a better representation of pining, which they thought would actually counteract some of the memory deficit from THC, because it is mind clearing. So, you know, those are the kind of terpene profiles I'm talking about. Bob, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:03:05
no, perfect. I get it just again. I think, if so, you know, there have been some questions on seizures here. If you can do some of the research and some of the studies, and you can find out what chemo bars that were used that had some positive results? That would be a thing to do. I'm not sure that you're going to be able to find them. People may keep those a secret, I don't know. But if you can find them and they've got positive results, that that would be the starting point, would be my guess. And of course, you know, they they've named all of these dog on things, or at least most of them out there. They're not scientific names, you know, like strawberry, this and that, and all these things, you know, but it, but still, a name leads you to some place to to look for the the content of that product.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:00
Okay, any information on Rick, Rick Simpson oil versus cancer?

Speaker 1  2:04:06
Oh, boy. Well, we kind of touched on that a little bit. THC, and Rick Simpson oil is pretty doggone, strong stuff, and I don't know exactly his his origin of when he did this Dr block, you may know, but giving it to people with cancer, they were having some pretty positive results. And, you know, you get a few dozen positive results, and it goes like wildfire everywhere again. There are a lot of RSO products out there. There's not just one. Everybody says, Oh, I got an RSO, okay, well, I think in my way of thinking, that means high THC. And like we talked about, high THC can be effective. And by no means is there anything in here that that I or anyone else would say, use this and don't go with chemotherapy or immunotherapy or or, as was mentioned last week, you know, peptide therapy for cancer, we're not saying that, we're saying that it can be used, and some people have had good results using quote, unquote, RSO Doctor block. Do you have any comments? Feel free.

Speaker 5  2:05:19
Yeah, even Rick Simpson kind of disappointed the way that his name is gotten associated with what's easy to see in a cancer patient something perceived as a snake oil too, you know, because the promise is so alluring when death is lurking and sure that may not be fully representative, tentative of what Rick Simpson wanted from it. I don't know him personally, or enough about it to comment further. It's just that it plays on human emotions associated with cancer in general.

Speaker 1  2:05:51
Yeah, and I'm very excited by and forgive me, I searched everywhere for the reference I ran across bullshit are four or five years ago, I searched, I can't find the reference. I can't find the studies children with cancer at high dose THC administered rectally. He had amazing results. And so if you if anybody's really interested in that, do your research. See if you can find them there. There are podcasts that talk about him as well.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:21
Doctor Nario, any use any of these products in your cancer clinic?

Speaker 2  2:06:26
Yeah. So I can make a comment about Rick Simpson oil in rectal form. The the thing that we recommend our patients, if they we want to do that rather than sublingual, is for the reason that sublinguals, they have a lot of like a psychoactive effects. I mean, meaning, yeah, it makes them dizzy, lightheaded. That's why we recommend them getting a like a. What about a bullet like a, it's like a depository, right? You get the cap of your pen probably, and then pour some oil in there, along with the drops of your Rick Simpson oil. And then, once it's frozen, you can now actually put it in the rectum. The only problem is, the burn starts to get up. It falls so when they cough, it shoots like a bullet across the room. So, but anyway, the thing there is, it's, yeah, we get a lot more of the rectal ones just because of the psychoactive effects. And even the smallest grain that you use, and you suggest it to get rubbed on the gums, even that with the smallest dose it's, it's still going to give them something to get it. Yeah, yep, so, but it is something that we have been recommending patients to do. No,

Speaker 1  2:07:42
that's, that's good and that, and that's why, in the pharmacy trade, they call the suppositories are called rectal rockets. Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:07:49
I think that's not a good rectal rocket cleanup.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:56
There's a question about, is there any interaction between low dose Naltrexone and THC and CBD,

Speaker 1  2:08:03
you know, not that I know of that's a great question. I haven't explored that at all. But if you think about the way that these things work, they are, they're after homeostatic balance. And if there's anything that low dose Naltrexone is doing that is going to disrupt or modify balance, I would say that the cannabinoids are going to try to rebalance that. And remember, when there are certain therapeutic things, if your body's out of balance, and certain therapeutic things are designed to modify that balance, the cannabinoids aren't going to mess that up for the most part.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:46
Okay, so Dr Arnott now corrects himself, sorry, pining has anticonvulsant properties, so likely would help. Okay, to paralyphyline is also and binds to CB, two receptors to modulate the immune system.

Speaker 1  2:09:04
Perfect. Yeah. You know, there is so much stuff in here. We could take off on any of these products, like beta, carry offline and take off on that, and do an entire lecture on that and what it does, where it works, how it is synergistic with other things. Just like I said, is extremely complex. I'm just trying to, you know, kind of simplify some of the complexities to bring it down, to make it more useful for for people on this call and and their patients, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:37
and Doctor Joel Peterson, who's been out sick for a few weeks is welcome back. He believes there's an sativa and indica. So there's a what a rips Rick Simpson oil sativa and a Rick Simpson oil indica. So that's okay,

Speaker 1  2:09:53
and that that's gotta be the other things in there, because, remember, those terms were used as far as the way plants were grown, right? Not, not always, the the chemical components in there, and there was a study out there. I didn't feel necessary to bring it in, where they they gave people different products. And what were commonly known as sativa is commonly known as indicas, and ask them their feeling on it, what happened and all that kind of stuff. And it was a complete mix up. There were no consistent answers to any of it. The sativas were causing people to be more active and, mind, you know, stimulating. And the indicas were were just as powerful the sativas, then we're causing people to sleep. So you know, all I can surmise is inner patient variation and maybe terpene content. Okay, okay. But if you go into a into a dispensary, they're going to ask you first question, right? Are you 21 second question is in the corona sativa,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:04
okay, penetrating questions. Dr Nario, do you have any anything on emails? Any questions? Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:11:10
so I have some questions, but some of, most of them are not related to I think it's more of your latter slides, um, but for sure, I know more now than the baristas in the dispensaries. I should have invited them over here to listen to you. So the thing here is, they're asking the

Bill Clearfield  2:11:30
baristas, oh,

Speaker 2  2:11:33
I know they're our best friends sometimes. Well, the thing the question here is, bio perion enhances other supplements, or just curcumin. Curcumin

Speaker 1  2:11:45
is the main one that I know about, but it enhances other type of things as as well, and especially cannabis,

Speaker 2  2:11:55
right, right? So I know this is also being used with resveratrol coca, but, yeah, you're right when it's added to, I guess, the curcumin, this even, like 2000 times absorbable and now, and it's like an enhanced version of black pepper. So black pepper is kind of a weaker version. It's more of, like a less like 10% comparable to BioPerine So, but yes, that is definitely a synergistic effect. Another one would be they're asking, if you do MSM, if you have a sulfur allergy, can you still use it?

Unknown Speaker  2:12:36
I don't think that'd be a good idea.

Speaker 2  2:12:39
So sulfur, because either soul spots or

Speaker 1  2:12:42
else, sulfa. You know, that's because of sulfa drugs, right? You know, like back room and all those kind of things. That's why they call it a sulfa allergy. But that extends also to things like anti diabetic type, things like Glyburide and glipizide. They have sulfa structures in there. So if you're allergic to a sulfur from a bathroom gave you a bad rash or whatever, then you want to stay away from those. So my thought is that's going to break down into sulfur. And if you have a true sulfur allergy, it's going to get you because it's not protected by the molecule once it breaks down,

Speaker 2  2:13:20
right? Yeah. And do they have a lot of MIS misconceptions about soul fossil fight allergies? Yeah, so that's, I think that's where the question is coming from, yeah, because

Speaker 1  2:13:30
we have hydrogen sulfide in our body, and we're not allergic to that for the most part. So

Speaker 2  2:13:36
right, right. Another one is a patient on psych meds and wants to take cannabis like, I think you mentioned, terpenoids can act like a SSRI. Should they totally just stop cannabis? Or a balance can be attained, like you can lower down the dose of your psych meds, increase cannabis, or vice versa.

Speaker 1  2:13:56
Well, okay, let's back up. First of all, I think in somebody that's under the age of 25 God help them if they're on psych meds. I hope that helps. I would stay away from cannabis under 25 years of age. I've seen cases of the psychosis going absolutely crazy in someone who was addicted, quote, unquote, addicted to cannabis, couldn't stop, but yet fell off the deep end when, when using it. So we're going to say, stay away from that. There again, inter patient variation. There may be some people who are on low dose neuroleptics that can benefit from it, and then there may be some patients who, if they do this, they're going to get a synergistic type of couch lock, or whatever. It's just going to wipe them out. Because sometimes the neuroleptics, they they will wipe you out. And then, plus, you know the other adverse effects, Gingival Hyperplasia, whatever you want to go into, you're going to have those, those side effects, I think personal opinion to look forward to for a long time, as long as you're on those psych meds or those neuroleptics. And I'm talking about neuroleptics, the SSRIs, we don't even, I don't even want to talk about that. That's, that's just a nightmare. Getting off of those things is a nightmare. And I know there are people out there that that boost the effects of SSRIs and whatnot with cannabis, and there are people out there that swear to it and say, You know what, I wouldn't do it. And you gotta believe they are afraid to discontinue either one,

Speaker 2  2:15:46
right? So I guess the lesson here, really, if you want to try it out, really go low or slow on this. Yeah, right, and maybe even with medical supervision, yeah.

Speaker 1  2:15:58
And you know, as well as I A lot of patients, and I'll use the example of schizophrenia, a lot of those people use cannabis,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:06
yep, behind closed doors, I'm sure. Oh yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:09
and don't. And they won't tell you, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:16:13
I guess that's it for me. Well, I'm a better and smarter today about cannabis education. Thank you, Doctor Quinn,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:19
excellent. Thank you. We

Bill Clearfield  2:16:21
always say that we will be smarter when but by the time we're done our talk than when we started. So we bring you the best, best, the the best speakers. So just to remind everybody, there's two ama CME credits. The link is here, um, it'll be on next week's email, like, I like put them on all and it's also on our website. Now. You can get the links for all of the eligible lectures, asrd.org, and at the top you'll see, it'll it'll have CME credits, and you can the video will be there. There's a link, and there's a link to to get the CME credits. It's $30 for two ama CME credits. Next week, we have Laura pole, who is going to be talking to us about culinary oncology. Did I get that right? There's a word I'm missing there. Dr narium. So, creative, creative culinary anthology. So, so get your cookbooks out. Okay? Bob, a great job, you know. And we need to have you on more often. Oh, gosh, thanks. We need to break it down. It was too, too much. My head is ringing. Oh, you doing, John.

Speaker 1  2:17:41
I'm just admiring Dr Quinn. He's excellent, always

Bill Clearfield  2:17:46
okay. And how you getting along? Excellent,

Speaker 1  2:17:49
better. I'm a recovering man. Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:17:53
down, stronger. Okay, all right. Anybody else have, anybody have any comments or questions?

Speaker 1  2:17:59
Well, I'll say the last thing here is, if the very first slide, if you want to get a hold of me, he's got the information, contact information on there,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:08
yeah, yeah, and we have it. I won't be putting this on YouTube because of the, you know, you know, the open minded, friendly YouTubers you know, will ban us again. So it'll be on, it'll be on our website, the AOS rd.org website, and I'm going to, I'll send you a copy of it. Bob, okay, perfect. Thank you, right. But cannabis is one of those things that are, I mean, they do have, can I just looked it up? They have cannabis videos. But when we put up anything, anything like that, and I get, I get the I get the finger of shame from from the sensor, from the YouTube sensor. So I'm going to leave that off. Okay, again, bring one, one friend next week. We had some new folks on. We had some of our patients on to this this week. So nice to see you all. I've had some old friends hadn't been around for a while. Nice to see you all. Also, next week, we're going to have a culinary, creative culinary oncology. So I'm assuming we're going to be learning about how to cook for those who have some cancer issues, okay, is that? Do I have that right? Doctor Nario,

Speaker 2  2:19:24
that's correct. I've seen the her lecture. So this is actually going to be interesting for, I mean, not only for cancer patients, but for any type of conditions, but specifically for cancer. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:35
okay, alright. So thank you all and say good job, Bob. There's a whole lot of kudos in the in the I didn't read them all, a whole lot of kudos at there. And yes, can we invite patients next week? You can invite patients any week. That's great. All welcome, and that's for doc from Doctor malora down in in the Philippines. Yes, please invite them. Okay, and we welcome anybody, great, even, Doc even, even Doctor Burgess,

Speaker 2  2:20:17
alright. Oh, by the way, Laura is from, yeah, the fellow is at the fellowship, so she's one of the faculty there.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:24
Okay, great. You, I need to get her contacts, by the way, Doctor narim, yes, we'll do that. Okay, alright. So thank you all, and we'll, we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and we'll have some more good stuff for you. So good night, everybody. And like I said, You Say, on our website, it won't be on the YouTube channel, because, because, because, all right. Okay. Good night everybody. Thank

Speaker 1  2:20:52
you. Thanks for the opportunity. Appreciate it. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai