Bill Clearfield  00:22
It out there. He is. Unmute. Dr Tanner, yeah, how are you doing? You know, this is quite I don't know if you have ever seen yourself in this setting here with that brain and the key, the key is coming right out of your head. That's the right background. I mean, this is this, this is a, this is a portrait right here, right we, can we? Can we use this in the, you know, we're putting together the brochure for the conference. Can I use this as a as a picture here? Can I get? Is that? All right, I'm gonna give it. I'm gonna screenshot it. Yes, I'm gonna screen this. This is quite the this is, this is quite the picture here. So, all right, so we had a meeting with just, just got off with the web guy. So, so we got the logo, we got the we got the the outline of the schedule. We got a fee schedule. And he's going to put a couple of he's going to use some of that stuff that we used from our conferences, from a couple of years ago, pictures and stuff, and just put it all together. So if you guys can get us a you know who your speakers are, and we need a bio, a CV, a picture and financial disclosure, and we'll get you that. Okay, yeah, and then we can get going the so I got a fee schedule. I got 695 for CME for physicians in house, 595 for virtual. 395 for retired pas medical assistants, homeopaths, just homeopaths. 395 lay people, 200 students and residents, 95 and a day past. 250 that's what I got. I don't know. Is that reasonable?

Unknown Speaker  02:39
And that's the reason of actually, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:46
I found that. I found our budget from a couple of years ago, and that was the one that we're the, you know, the hotel, you know, Shiv, this in the back at the end, we basically broke. We lost $2,000 on the whole thing. But without the hotel, we would have made over 20 great not, it's not a forum, but, you know, it kept us in an outbound, you know, we've been in the wilderness for three years, and I don't make any we don't make any money off of these, you know, off of these Tuesday night things. I wish I could figure out a way to do it, even if we just charge, you know, five bucks ahead. You know ahead somehow, you know we're getting, we're getting 50, we're getting 50 people, you know, on a Tuesday night. And you know, even if we charge $5 ahead, I mean, I don't think that's unreasonable, even $2 a head, something just to pay for the internet

Unknown Speaker  03:44
connection. That's right to work.

Bill Clearfield  03:48
So, Dr Burgess, I'm gonna have to mute you there, because you're unless you got something to say, because it was kind of just garbled. So I got you muted here. So, so, so that's, that's where we're at. So, so Dr Tano, and when Dr Quinn comes on and I don't Dr James is part of the the head here, if you can get me your your your speakers list ASAP, and I'll let you know what what we need from them, so that we can, you know, we want to get the broke. The website is will be up and running by this time next week, and we want to get the information out. I'm going to ask everybody to please let us use. Either let us use, or you use your your email contacts to contact as many of your you know, your colleagues and your groupies as as as nest as you can. I have a list of our list is about 3500 that I send out every week. But if we could send, get, if we can get about 10,000 out, we can get, you know, a pretty, pretty decent turnout, the room that only holds 60. So, you know, in house, what we we've done really well on virtual and we so we charge a little bit less, and don't anybody take this the wrong way. We don't have to feed them. We don't have to hold their hand. You know, when they're online, it's actually a lot easier for us that way. So, and it's kind of short notice, so, you know, and Reno's not all that easy to get to, you know, you have to take two planes pretty much from anywhere on, you know, east of the Mississippi. So, we do have to sell the doctor narrative. What is, what do we have to sell 1010, room blocks,

Unknown Speaker  06:01
yeah, 10, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  06:03
And the rooms, $179 a night, which, in the old days used to be a lot. But you know, if you've been out buying a hotel room lately, anywhere, and it's pretty much, that's pretty reasonable, you know, it's a new hotel. I mean, it's a nice so, you know, it's nice. It's just not fancy. It's not, you know, there's nothing, you know. There's nothing you know, ornate about it.

Speaker 1  06:31
The fancy hotel, though, they can walk across it,

Bill Clearfield  06:34
it's, I checked, though it's not exactly across. It's five blocks from it. And you know, we're going to be in, it's going to be in December, so

Unknown Speaker  06:45
a little cold, right? It'll be a little cold,

Bill Clearfield  06:47
but actually, it's across from the Reno marketplace, which has all these pretty neat little, sort of like kiosk. Have you ever been in there? Yeah, they have little little, little food shops and whatnot. They have pretty much every type of food you want. It's right? That's right across the street from that. So, right? And, I mean, you know, it's an okay hotel. It's not great. But again, this was short notice, and when we go to the big hotel, we'd have to pledge 3030, hotel rooms that we would buy it. I think it was, what was it? What was the pepper mills to 249 so 60, yeah, I think it was 249 a night. And it was we'd have to, we'd have to buy 30 of them. So 36 so 90 times 249, we would have been on the hook for, so what's that? 2020, some $1,000 yeah, we should be able to our biggest, biggest expense here is probably going to be the the online, you know, broadcasting, right? Which the last, last time I did it, not counting the union. You know, Shiv was about 8800 so I figured it's probably going to be about 11 or 12,000 that's my guess.

Speaker 1  08:13
Yeah, so get some skiers in here. I mean, people go into Reno for for to talk, for example,

Bill Clearfield  08:19
yeah. I mean, it's ski season. That's the reason they started the aosrd, right? Dr Burgess, and I think Dr Renz is on, yeah, he had a bunch of us. That was, that was the reason they came to Reno in the first place, was to go skiing. And they said, well, we might as well make it a a we'll make it, we'll make it a conference so that we can fight it off. Sally ended up going to Reno all these years.

Speaker 2  08:45
That's correct. Well, that is the true story, but that's not the story I'm spreading. I'm saying there was a group of geniuses that gathered of necessity to save mankind. That's my story, and I'm sticking to it.

Bill Clearfield  09:00
Yeah. Okay. All right, yeah. All right, that one sounds good. All right, so our speakers here, usually we have Dr Nario give us a tip in a week. But I got a question from Dr couch before we start. So you want to Dr couch, you want to ask your question, yeah,

Speaker 3  09:22
Bill, about a month ago, there was a discussion towards the end of a presentation on a patient you had in using iodine. And then I was gone the next week, and maybe the week, and somehow we missed I was just wondering if you ever made contact with Dr Brownstein about the I think he was using a higher dose iodine. And people's concerns about it, and I just am trying to follow up if that was ever learned and then presented.

Bill Clearfield  09:49
When the answer is no, no problem, the answer is nice. Quite frankly, at this point, I don't even remember who the patient wants to tell the truth.

Speaker 3  10:02
It's okay. I just, it was an interesting

Bill Clearfield  10:06
you remember how many weeks ago I'll go back and look at the video and I'll find it?

Speaker 3  10:11
Oh no, no. I just just wanted to ask, out of curiosity. It's in a it's in a text that I shared with you to Dr Brownstein so you could communicate to them directly,

Bill Clearfield  10:21
all right, I'll go find it. Still be I'll go find it. Okay, so if my background looks a little different, I'm visiting my the grandchildren. So that's, that's where I am in Detroit. So I'm on the East Coast, so I get to see how this, this, this webinar goes for the East Coast people. Because, you know, it starts for us at five o'clock in the afternoon, and you know, if it goes two hours, it's done at seven. So, so it's a little bit different here. So okay, Dr Nario, do you have our

Unknown Speaker  10:58
week?

Bill Clearfield  10:59
Yeah, the leap of a week.

Speaker 1  11:01
All right, so we're basically getting into Ayurveda in our lesson. So tonight, we're going to be talking about a health practice that's been around for over 3000 years, and it's actually called oil pulling. So I'm sure you guys are pretty familiar with that, and you heard that somewhere already, but it's like a detox smoothie, but instead of drinking it, you swish it around your mouth for 10 to 20 minutes. And Ayurveda, Indians, ancient system of medicine, describes oil pulling as detoxifying, the ritual that draws out impurities and boosts systemic vitality. And now modern science is saying, hey, maybe grandma was onto something. What happens in your mouth? Does it stay in your mouth. Poor oral health is linked to heart disease, diabetes and even dementia, at the very condition we find in anti aging medicine. So inflammation is the fuel that accelerates aging, and that's why we call it inflammaging. So a frame kind of uses that term a lot periodontal diseases, sends a steady stream of inflammatory molecules like il six and TNF alpha into your bloodstream. These molecules don't just harm your gums. They damage blood vessels, brain tissue and metabolism. So one study even found Alzheimer brains full of periodontal bacteria like porphyrios, gingivalis and Yikes. Said this is actually a study in science advancement 2019, so keeping your mouth healthy is directly connected to staying younger and longer. So oil pulling is simple but surprisingly powerful. Mechanisms of action would be the swishing motion, emulsifiers, plaque and bacteria like so, breaking up grease, the anti microbial effects. Coconut oil contains lauric acid, for example, which fights bacteria, fungi and even some viruses. The anti inflammatory impact studies show oil pooling can reduce oxidative stress and gingival inflammation markers like il six and TNF alpha and the microbiome reset, so it helps shift your oral microbiome towards a healthier and less inflammatory balance. So let's look at the data, because we like proof, not just tradition. So 2015 RCT by pediaco, after 30 days of coconut oil pulling, participants had significantly less plaque and gingivitis than the control group. Another RCT, 27 by negila, dental students who oil pooled had lower plaque scores versus placebo. So as you can see here, Oil Pulling improves gum health. But again, I don't want to say it's a good replacement for actual dental health. So that's totally different. And chlorhexidine is one of those head to head comparisons that was made with this. Chlorhexidine still wins and in the study of John with 2024 but the thing here is, you don't like the staining the tea, the irritation of the oral mucosa with chlorhexidine. So that's why Oil pulling is another option for that. And how do we do this? Choose your oil. First. Traditional Ayurvedic choice is sesame oil, but the modern favorite is coconut oil, thanks to its taste in lauric acid. And however, Ayurveda emphasizes using food natural found in one's environment. So other organic oils, like sunflower are pretty okay. So next timing morning on an empty stomach is traditional, or make it part of your bedtime routine. If mornings are too hectic, and then what about the amount? It will be one tablespoon, so 10 to 15 mils, Swiss gently for 10 to 20 minutes when, of course, well, you can watch your Netflix video or YouTube video while doing this. So beginners can start with 15 minutes and then build up slowly, spit it out into the trash, not the sink, unless you want an emergency call from your plumber. So it's hard to solidify in the pipes, and it will clog your pipes eventually, and then finish strong, how brush your teeth and scrape your tongue to remove toxins. And they call it Ayurveda Amma. Ayurvedic tradition favors silver tongue scrapers, but copper or stainless steel works as well. So oil cooling doesn't just freshen your breath, it may even lower systemic inflammation, reduce oxidative test and protect brain, heart and metabolism. Think of it as a low cost, low risk longevity hack that fits perfectly into an anti aging lifestyle. It's not a placement for brushing, flossing or dental care, but it's an adjunct tool with ancient roots and growing modern evidence. So that's our league of the week.

Bill Clearfield  15:19
Okay, great. So on again. I'll, just as a personal note, I had pretty bad plaque. I always have the dental hygienist twice a year in there with a hammer and a chisel and, you know, hammering away. And so I started doing this. I we, I did a tablespoon of coconut oil, half a teaspoon of turmeric and a half a teaspoon of baking soda. And that worked really well, I mean, and that the next time I went is, well, what did you do? You must be flossing a lot, and I'm not a great flosser. I don't like flossing. It's just, I don't know, kind of icky to me. But that worked really well. And then I had, I have a couple of dentists in our practice here, and I brought it up to them, and they universally said that doesn't do anything. It's no good. Don't even bother. What are you wasting your time for? So take for it, what you will well,

Unknown Speaker  16:16
10 to 20 minutes, Ken is a challenge here.

Bill Clearfield  16:21
I don't get it that far. That's that is quite a challenge. 10 to 10 to 20 minutes is quite a long time to be swishing that around and whatnot. Most of it gets swallowed if you try to do it that long. So, so, and we're going to hear about, you know, exotic, I don't know if you call it exotic. Is Ayurvedic considered exotic? We're going to talk about AI bias tonight, and the fact that the AI is is biased towards other, you know, towards Western medicine. Although lately I've been in my in my own studies, I've been doing a lot of the deep dives, you know, they have these now, you know the, you know, deep research, deep dives. And if I put in specifically, you know, TCM, because that's what I look at, or or Ayurveda, it does come up with quite a bit of information on that. So I think maybe if you need to, well, we're going to hear from Dr James and Dr James and Dr Tano. Let them pontificate for us so. So tonight we have our Dr Tano, our specialist and Mr. Brilliant pioneer all around Minnesota resident. He's the founder of integrative immunity health system located in Edina, Minnesota. Johns Hopkins fellowship trained in allergy Clinical Immunology. He's authored a number one best selling book, the layman's guide to integrative immunity. He has a vast experience in allergy Clinical Immunology and in education. I'm just going to leave it at that, Dr Tanner, because I could talk two hours about your credentials, and then Dr Anthony James, who's new to our group, is the director of education of NAIC, the Native American indigenous church located in Brooksville, Florida, director of education and clinical services at missionary clinic and Wellness Center, founder of the an education Director of the soma Soma VEDA, College of Natural Medicine, Florida, Department of Education, commission on independent education, authorized degree granting institutions. He's written and published his first book in English titled Nuwa Thai, traditional Thai medical massage. Dr James has graduated over 20,000 students through his Soma, Vada yoga, Thai Yoga, Thai massage, Ayurveda and natural medicines. And he's got a credential list as long as Dr Tanner, so I'm going to leave it at that. I'll let the two of you tag team each other and introduce yourselves, if anything that I've missed. So we can get going here. So. Dr Tano. Dr James, the floor is yours,

Unknown Speaker  19:06
right? Nice to see everyone.

Unknown Speaker  19:09
Nice to see you guys. So.

Speaker 4  19:13
Dr Tanner Do you want to flip forward, or do you want to

Speaker 5  19:17
I would let you. I'm going to be just the supporting person here, Dr James, because that would be that would work better, yeah.

Speaker 4  19:26
Well, I was very surprised to hear the the tip of the day starts with Ayurveda. So Ayurveda, I'm a master professor, John of Thai traditional medicine, the traditional medicine of Thailand. I was given that accolade by the Prime Minister of Thailand. At one point, recognized by the King of Thailand. At one point, I've been a teacher in Thailand for 41 years, teaching Ayurveda to Thai students and Thailand, like I wrote the first book published in English on

Speaker 5  20:17
James, you breaking out. I don't know your maybe your audio is not quite clear. I'm not sure.

Bill Clearfield  20:22
Can you

Unknown Speaker  20:24
hear me or not?

Unknown Speaker  20:28
Sorry, see.

Speaker 4  20:40
Us. Well, I've been on the zoom all day. It's been working fine, so I guess it's one of those things. Can you hear me?

Unknown Speaker  20:53
Now? I can hear you.

Speaker 4  20:56
Let me know if you have difficulty hearing me. Okay, so back to what I was saying, just as background on this conversation, a couple of different points of intersection. One, I did write and publish the first book in English on Thai, traditional Ayurveda in 1983 that book, plus 20 others that have followed it, have been used as primary text in Thailand, in Thai courses at the college level ever since, as far as Ayurveda goes, right now, I'm actually on the advisory board of the largest Ayurveda Association outside of India. That's apna, the Association of Ayurvedic professionals of North America. I think today we have 213,000 members from 116 countries. We have, of course, many members in the United States at different levels of practice, and our membership goes from entry level therapists all the way to Ayurvedic doctors and surgeons, and I've received lifetime achievement awards for my Ayurvedic text from Ayush in India and from so that's something on the Ayurvedic side. I was happy to see that, and it's going to come into the conversation. The other thing is, I'm Native American, and I'm actually the director, one of the founders and director of the Native American indigenous church, and we're a federally recognized Native American tribal organization made up of 42 federally recognized tribes, and our mission is to restore medicine to the Native Americans, especially Native Americans that are off reservation urban, say urban off reservation communities, and restoring the practice of natural medicine to Native American communities, it's a daunting task, because due to diaspora over centuries, much of the physical practice of Native American medicine was lost, if you will, to History, or it was absorbed into other traditions, like osteopathy and like allopathy and perhaps like chiropractic and some others without attribution. And so the physical medicine of the tribes over time diminished to what most people think of as purely ceremonial, not realizing that, for example, just a couple of 100 years ago, there were 10s of millions of maybe 100 million Native Americans In the United States, and they had exhausted comprehensive elaborate physical medicine, medicine for mind, body and spirit, that's the way we would say it, and which is practiced, of course, at various levels. Some groups specialize more in physical medicine, like the crows, specialized that physical medicine, they call pushing, E, U, S, H, I N, G, pushing. And Navajos specialized and emotional, psychological and spiritual medicine. So what we would call the mental health aspects of healing and medicine. And other tribes had other specialties, and they shared and they worked together to disseminate this information. We know today over 400 different primary medicines that were extracted from indigenous and Native American culture, South America, North America, were exported to Europe, starting in the 13, 1400s and then were re imported into the United States and the late 17, 1800s as part of Western medicine. Again, without attribution, I'll give you the biggest example that I could make. Right off the top of my head. There's actually quite many, but most of you have heard of this device use the medicine called the syringe. How many people here have heard of the syringe? This this capsule with a hollow needle, which is used to inject substances or extract substances from the body. Anybody Am I the only one they can one I'm being facetious, I'm not but that is entirely a Native American invention, a syringe. It was invented by Native Americans. It was used widely from North to South America, back into antiquity, and it was captured, if you will, by Portuguese and Spanish priests in the 1500s who thought it was so remarkable they just couldn't Believe the applications and how efficient it was as a tool. They took it back to Queen Isabella, and they took it back to Europe, where it was immediately adopted. And then, over time was improved, okay, until we have, you know, the glass syringe and the metal syringe. And now, of course, we have the disposable syringe and also associated with vaccines, but of course, they're used for many, many other things for vaccines, right? And I'll describe the syringe to you that was used. Have any of you ever physically encountered a porcupine? I have, but has anybody else in the wild or some other upfront you've ever actually seen or been close to a porcupine? You know what I'm talking about? No, you don't know. Nobody knows.

Speaker 5  27:57
I know porcupine for sure.

Speaker 4  28:00
Okay, they're famous for the quills, right, right? If you're like me, and you've lived a lot of your life out in the wilderness, you realize and you have dogs, okay, you have to be careful, because dogs are curious. And if they're out in the woods and they run across the porcupine, well, they they want to run up and mess with it immediately, and the slightest touch on the porcupine by the dog, and they have a face full of quills, which you cannot even easily extract most of the time. You have to use pliers to pull them out. It makes a bloody mess, or you have to take the dog to the vet, and that's an expensive deal. It's almost like they want to charge you. Well, pull those quills out, okay? Well, so they are razor sharp wells and they're hollow, so if you just sand off a little bit of the end of the 12, you have a needle, sharp racer, sharp dagger, pointed instrument that is hollow. Now you take a little piece of fish gut, or fish bladder, that's the preferred thing, and you put it up. You cut off the wide end, you put the fish bladder over the other end, you take some tendon, gut tendon, from some animal, which was a common thing back in the day, and you wrap it around that, that fish bladder, until you seal it and make it really tight. And then you can put that in your mouth, and you put the pointy end in the substance you want to inoculate into the person. And it could be water, it could be a Medicaid, it could be medicine. There were many, many different kinds of infusions or tensions that were used, and then you just suck on the bulb, and it pulls, infiltrates the fluid into the syringe, and then you poke that into the client and give the squeeze, and you are now able to inoculate that with the Medicine. And this was a common medicine 500 years ago, okay, 500 years ago in Native American land now, 99.999% of people don't know this. They don't know that. When we say Native American medicine, we actually include technologies. They also don't know we have traditional treatments for everything, most of which were lost. Okay? So in the 90s, there were conversations in native communities about how to restore or create, or generate or renaissance in traditional medicine. And there was a sorely lacking of knowledge, because so many people who had any knowledge had passed away. So I had the bright idea that, because I had this training in Thailand, that I went to the elders, and I said, Look, why don't we? Why don't we adopt what the UN calls indigenous medicine from tribal people around the world to restore the missing elements of traditional medicine that would have been common to Native communities, even as recently as before the Second World War, and they agreed to it, and we created an organization to do that. And my organization is that organization. So to make a long story short, we adopted classical, Indian and classical Sri Lankan and classical Thai Ayurveda to replace missing elements of traditional Native American medicine with the blessings of the United Nations and with the blessings of The US government, including the Department of the Interior, Indian Health Care Association so on, with the specific purpose of restoring a holistic, natural, indigenous tribal medicine perspective to native peoples, not just in The US, but everywhere. And we do work with tribes in many, many other countries. I think right now, we have members in 11 countries. So that's where the Ayurveda. A lot of people say, well, where's the Ayurveda? What's that got to do with with indigenous or traditional medicine under the United Nations World Health Organization, Ayurveda is classified as a indigenous medical cultural heritage, indigenous medical cultural heritage, and there are many countries in The world that either practice Ayurveda or have some emphasis. That comes that's derived from Ayurveda. Like aroma therapy, for example, is derived from Ayurveda. Reflexology is derived from Ayurveda. Most Chinese professors now agree that traditional Chinese medicine is a derivative of Ayurveda, and so we have the regional, distinctive variations, so on and so forth. I want to give you a little bit of information and why this is important to the AI one. So I'm going to go to the World Health Organization. I did just a little. I already knew the points, but I wanted to get the numbers just right for you guys. Why? One of the reasons, AI is sufficient fundamental level. AI is not programmed to consider indigenous, traditional, regional, geographic field medicine practices as a general rule. And there are many reasons for this. We sum them up with saying that it's it's an artifact, it's a defect, ended survival, which means some of it can be fixed, and we want to recommend some solutions for that some of it can be strategically addressed. In other words, learning how to write prompts that allow for conversation that relates to indigenous and traditional medical practices like Ayurveda, for example. But let me give you a reason. Why? Another reason why it's important, not just in the US. World Health Organization estimates that about 80% of the world's population relies at least in part, either primarily or at least in part, on traditional medicine practices like Ayurveda. Right? So I want you to think about that the World Health Organization estimates out of approximately 8 billion people in 2025 that 6.4 billion people in the world today rely on derivatives of classical Indian Ayurveda and or regionally specific traditional medicines. Now we think, and I've heard this before, Western medical system best in the world. Blah, blah, blah, okay, however, to whatever degree we may claim to be best, we are certainly not the most used medical system. We are certainly not the most relied upon medical system and world, not by far, 20% out of the whole world's population having any access to Western medicine at all is actually not a high percentage. I'll give you one statistic from Thailand, the average Thai person, if they have a medical condition, anything you just migraine, headache, to cancer, any medical condition, any orthopedic, broken bone, dislocation, inflammatory condition, infection, whatever average time is, three days travel time to the nearest Western medical clinic. Once you think, just let that sit in person three days to the nearest Western clinic. Okay, the average Indian 1.3 billion people is could be three to five days travel time to the nearest Western clinic. The average Chinese person one point well, you know, a lot of people dispute. They say there's been a big population in China, but let's just say they claim 1.3 billion people the average Chinese person to a Western trained medical practitioner of any kind of any kind. Okay, could be a week, five days to seven days travel time,

Speaker 4  37:53
just to get a consultation, just to get to the clinic, to physically locate themselves in the clinic. So what do they do? They're not stacked up like cordwood in the villages. I can tell you that for a fact. I've been all over China, India, Indonesia, Philippines and so on. And No, there's not bodies in the street stacked up like Ford wood, and it's because they're relying on indigenous and traditional medicine, one way or the other. However you would like to call it traditional Chinese medicine if you're in China. Uh, bridging into Southeast Asia, Asia, bridging into Africa. Uh, growing politics of Ayurveda and Africa. We have many members in Africa. So what do they do? Well, they do this functional medicine, called principally Ayurveda or the local variants, which, under the United Nations guidelines, are called indigenous traditional medicine. Indigenous traditional medicine. Okay, so AI, I have surveyed first myself. I've surveyed 20 different medical AI, diagnostic systems, but, but, you know, I'm tricky. I'm cheap. I ask questions where I already know the answer. I'm an Ayurveda, uh, Professor of Ayurveda, right? So I already know answers. I've written 20 books on I already know a lot of the answers that you would hope to get from a medical AI, if you ask it to also consider a holistic alternative or other than Western medical answers. And in every case, the answers were not were either missing, there was no answer, the answers were incomplete. The answers were not in a correct context, not in a cultural context, for the people who would be receiving the treatment. And so, you know, we've got 80% of the world now. 20 million of those 80% have migrated like it or not, into the United States in the last four years. 20 million, okay, that's 20 million people that come from cultures that do not rely on Western medicine, who may not ever have heard of some of the common remedies or treatments of Western medicine. And if all you do is you have a system of AI diagnostics that presents a a dominant Western cultural allopathic version of diagnosis, prognosis and treatment, recommendations and protocols that you disenfranchise automatically, that 20% that 80% now they may not ever say a word to you. You may not know that, because you may not have this awareness that certainly in the immigrant populations. But this goes for legitimate immigrant populations as well, like like the legal Asian populations in the US, illegal African communities in the immigrant communities in the US, illegal Chinese I had an office in Chinatown in Chicago called golden lotus right on Wentworth of downtown Chinatown, Chicago for 12 years. I was the only white non Chinese doctor member of the Chinese Chamber of Commerce for 12 years, and I had clients who had never they've been living in the US for 20 years and had not had any direct experience with Western medicine. They've been living in and did not speak English, have been living in the US, but they would come to me, why? Because I could give them access to a traditional medicine protocol that they could recognize. Okay, so one of the problems. Now, I don't know what we want to say this. It's an insufficiency of data for sure. Okay, it is a bias, because the bio, the fundamental operating systems of the AI, is written from to cater to a Western medical perspective. The the authors and engineers who create the software admit that openly and freely, okay, and even we have the AIS themselves documenting that this is, in fact, a fact, then we have 90% of who member states, 90% formally report that traditional or complementary medicine is, in fact, the foundation of their national medical systems, even if they have a Western equivalent, FDA And a drug approval process and a medicine approval process for medical practice in the country. How about that? 90% nine out of 10 un countries reported? No. This is for most Western medical people. It's kind of a shock to hear these numbers. It's like you think it's hyperbolic. It can't possibly be true. Well, go to a general meeting at the UN once or twice, and you'll start to get what I'm talking about. It's probably a mix crap. And then we say altogether, Western medicine implementation in the world, it's still best, highest percentages at 61% global population have any access to Western medicine, even if that's what they prefer. And those are going to be mostly people in the major cities like Bangkok in Thailand, or Chiang Mai Delhi, or Falcon or on the tour, or Goa southern India or whatnot. We'll have Western facilities. So regional patterns, forget that those are the major systems, the smaller, geographically specific breakout types of systems. And most of the world, you have this issue of it's called tribal and indigenous. Much of the world is divided up into tribal and clan. And your your whole identity of our person in life, even your name, is based on a colloquial tribal identity, okay? And tribes have preferences for healthcare. Tribes have preferences for healthcare, pharmaceutical products derived from traditional knowledge illustrate overlap, and that's a that's a game changer, by the way, there's one of your openings, if you can show people that ordinarily would understand what you're offering that, in fact, the medicine that you're recommending to them actually has an indigenous, traditional, native or tribal origin, they will be more receptive to it. See, one of the issues with AI is that the AI makes a diagnostic prognosis, whatever trigger protocol that that is alien to the patient and to their culture, to their understanding. They even if they submit to it, they will not adopt to it. They will not adopt. And so you're going to have a compliance issue over time. We see that right here in the United States, Indian healthcare under Department of the Interior, only offers allopathy, primarily on the reservations, and yet, 70% of people who respond on reservations say that they still use traditional medicine. And if there was a traditional medicine alternative to what they get at the Indian Health Care Clinic on the reservation, they would they would prefer that. They would do that, and they would do it every time. And there is a compliance issue with people on the reservation, because over time, they find the Western system to be integrative of their culture. It's like they don't like it every time they go to a doctor that a practitioner, and I'm not going to say every time I'm saying what they say. I don't believe this is true. I know, personally, I know, some really good docs that are working on reservation and Indian communities today. I do there. They're here heroic, okay, but I'm talking about what the tribal people say.

Speaker 4  47:43
And the fact is that when they go for help, they don't get healing. They get process, they get protocol, they get drugs, they don't get healing forever, in a day indigenous peoples medicine was holistic, holistic, like they invented it. So they know it when they see it. They also know the lack of it when they see it. Just calling a procedure, non invasive and holistic to an indigenous person, will not convince them that it is so, because they know what holistic means. They know that real medicine is ethical, moral improvement. They know that real medicine addresses all aspects of the human spirit, mind and body, in the context of life and livelihood and family and community and work, and all of those things are considered to be significant. And they're taught from children to believe that all of these things are significant. So even if you have a incredibly good protocol, and you go to present that to the indigenous community, they may tolerate it, but they want to do and eventually you're going to have a compliance issue, and you're also there were big studies. In fact, one of my students, who graduated with her doctorate in medicine, went to Ethiopia and got a really good gig. She was paid by the World Health Organization to go to Ethiopia and do a field survey of the country people, the tribal indigenous country people who had access to Western medicine from sources like medicine soft volunteers and Doctors Without Borders and the national government of India and other gates, foundation programs and so on. They had access to that childhood vaccination programs, to the gates, foundation, etc. And her job was to survey compliance, survey with compliance. What she came up with was extraordinary. Compliance was virtually less than 20% across the board for the whole country of Ethiopia, and this is for free medicine. These people didn't even have to pay these are NGOs, paying for the medicine, paying for the vaccinations, paying for the child care, paying for and yet they were relying on quote, unquote witch doctors. See when I say which doctor, it's not a denigrating term, because if that's the only doctor within 100 miles and he can fix it, who cares what it's called. They had a similar situation in Madagascar when covid hit, there was only a 12% compliance with World Health Organization recommendations for treating covid, including the vaccines. Over 80% of the population refused all Western medical intervention and relied on the local medicine, man or woman and the local teachers, infusions, herbal remedies that were traditional and they had a lower mortality rate than the US. Far less compliance, far higher survivability, far lower mortality. You now know this. These are all. These are all stats. They feed into this AI thing. Everywhere I look the AI is being recommended. So when I say now bias, I forget who said this in one of the other meetings. Of course, there's some bias here, because you have a traditional medicine system that is not documented in a conventional Western way as of today. Now there are projects trying to remediate that, and bless them, they will be very helpful. So the national government of India, I use has now, in the last three years, announced a multi million, $800 million project to scan and digitize a million pages of traditional medical text. Okay, it's a little bit tedious. Why those medical texts are written in 500 different languages by hand, on wood, paper, sheepskin and Codex made from compressed bamboo leaves on pieces of leather vellum from the 1850s and they're attempting to scan these formulas and these documents, and then we have to have specialists from each region who can speak the languages and read the languages, even anachronistic languages, even there is a body politic of half a million medical texts that are written in Pali language, which is anachronistic Sanskrit, the way Sanskrit language was written and spoken 2000 to 2500 years ago. The only people in the world today who could read and write and speak Bali are Buddhist monks. The only ones nobody else could do it well. Robert Thurman, I know one guy. I know one guy, Uma Thurman, that he could read, write and speak. So I have to throw him out there. But now imagine so we have these facts. This is 1000 years of functional medicine, recipes, diagnostics, prognostics, protocols, treatments, everything from herbal medicine to lifestyle, prayers and meditation to 500 different surgical procedures written in a language that hasn't been commonly spoken, but yet it's been translated into Tibetan, into Gujarat, into Hindi. And so some of the first texts, for example, are called the Charaka Samhita, the hara pika. They have these kinds of names, and a few of them, like eight of them, 10 of them have been translated into English. So AI has an issue getting this information and then basically putting it in some context, because a lot of the formulary, which is functional, in other words, to cure disease, proven to cure disease, proven, okay,

Unknown Speaker  55:27
well, it's written in the form of a polar or it's written in the form of a song.

Speaker 4  55:36
So, for example, there's 1000 texts about Dr quince on here. I know he, he's our expert on CBD. Okay, well, and and Ayurveda. There's 1000 texts that are written in traditional medical text on the use of the cannabis, of the cannabis plant, all parts of it, from the roots to the stems to the brachial to the leaves to the flowers and at all living states of it, from New sprouts to fully harvested, dried, processed, brown pattern extracted tincture, infused, homeopath and this body of literature is written in the form of songs, which are called ragas, and they're meant to be sung with accompaniment of a sitar and a tabla, and that's if you were a Doctor of Ayurveda, and you were supposed to learn the cannabis cure from a particular school you were you had to learn the song. To learn the song. I experienced this when I was in India. Did I master this? Absolutely not. Robert. Forget it. Forget it. Enjoy it, let somebody else take that song, translate it into a written poem, and then interpret the poem into a Western application and sort of understanding. I have to rely on others for that now. So this is a daunting task, and right now AI, in comparison to being able to handle this is in its infancy. It's not possible. It just simply cannot do it. Okay, so we have this. We have the air of omission. Ai omits what it doesn't have access to in the database. We well documented in our book decoding AI and medicine, what we call hallucinatory artifacts, which in medical diagnostics, AI will produce hallucinatory artifacts, including scientific references and citations that don't exist, literally hallucinate, and they're called hallucinations. Now, how common is that we don't know. I talked to several different programmers who that's all they do is set up AIS for medical practices and institutions and so on. And I ask them that question point blank, what percentage of the outcomes, generative outcomes for AI diagnosis may contain hallucinatory elements or improper or made up citations. And they said they know they're there. They have no estimate what the percentage of that is, but they are there. And so their recommendation, which we put in the book, and and I think Dr Tano also really emphasized was that if you're going to use AI as a medical tool for diagnostics, it is no substitute for your medical training. It's no substitute for your own personal intelligence and acumen at signs and symptoms and ways and measures and your own if you will, anecdotal clinical experience and so dr Phan, I wish he was here. He's not here, is he? Dr Phan mentioned briefly that he was having an issue with med students who were doing exams with AI, and they were actually turning in papers for credit that were generated by AI. And he looked at some of these papers and the citations that were in these papers, there was no such citation. They were they were fictitious. And so you had medical students in school submitting papers and case studies for patients that were relying on citations that were fictitious or hallucinatory, and may also, he said, had other issues, which, when it came to querying or questioning the students In person, they couldn't actually justify they couldn't justify their their outcomes, their their rational I couldn't justify because they didn't generate. Okay, so I think there's a lot of possibility and promise and with with AI, I'm all for it. I am okay. But also it's like, like an unsharpened tool. Maybe there's some chefs here, and you have this experience of trying to shepherd with a really dull knife, trying to chef with a really dull night, trying to do some skill that requires a scalpel, a sharp knife, and you don't have one, what you have is really dull. And you have this experience, if it's too dull, you won't be able to do what you need to do at all. If it's just dull enough that you want to try and use it anyway. You're gonna get hurt, correct? You're gonna get hurt. You're gonna, you're gonna cut yourself. You're not just worried about the patient. You're gonna cut yourself. Okay? You have to, if you're, if you if the instruments supposed to be sharp, you need to be razor sharp. If it's supposed to be fine, need to be really fine. Like, I had a microscope that had a detective optic. Have you had that experience anybody? They're not 100% perfect, right, right out of the box. And I thought it was me, you know, I've got glasses, right? So I'm just like, oh, it's, you know, the light, the filter, you know, I thought it was me. I finally I had somebody else look at it, and they said, No, it's, it's, it's not, right, there's something wrong with it. And so I packed it up and I sent it back to the manufacturer, and they were like, Oh, my bad. It happens. My bad. But it still even had the inspector, you know, the little inspector certificate with the initial on it so someone had actually looked at it and didn't see what I saw they approved it. They sent it to me. I tried to use it. I thought it was me. It was not me. I got a second opinion. Second Opinion said, Nope, it's not you, it's the optic. It's not right, okay, that optic is AI, that that sharp knife is AI, and we have to double check everything, and then as far as as far as communities, right? It requires the step of identifying if there is a community, if there is a traditional background for the patient, and adding that into your queries, if you don't specifically just like right now, you're starting to get more responses for Ayurveda, like we say, well, what? What might be an Ayurvedic option for periodontal plaque and gum disease, and you get it. And of course, in Ayurveda, it's called Kabbalah, ordinho sa, okay, Kabbalah, okay. But in the Charaka Samhita, the Kabbalah is described as being balancing for the doshas. Okay, so, okay, well, I'm just, I need periodontal. That's what I'm going for. How does dosha relate to periodontal? Well, then when you study the doshas concept of tri dosha, you see that every part of the body relates to a different dosha. And then, who was it that was speaking about the Ayurveda earlier? I'm sorry,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:54
Dr Nario. Dr

Speaker 4  1:04:56
Nario, okay, so you mentioned the three primary oils that are recommended. Recommended. Good job, you were right on the money, right. Pretty much everything he said was exactly correct. Here's what I would have said in traditional clinical Ayurveda, as practiced in India today, there's a system to decide which of these oils you use. You have all of them available to the client, and you make a recommendation, sesame versus coconut versus sunflower based on their what's called the crude, which is the difference between prakriti and brutti is the dosha and balance. So for example, if you take their pulse and you look at their direct signs of observation, and they are vata imbalance, that's their primary brutti is vata imbalance, then you would tell them to use sesame, do not use coconut. If you do the assessment, you take their pulse, you do your direct observation assessment, and their pizza, you tell them to use coconut and never use sunflower for this. And if they're dosha and balance their big protein is Kapha imbalance, or Papa and Thai, you would tell them to use sunflower and never use sesame or coconut for this. And you would tell them they would already know they have a vata imbalance because their overall pathology, spirit, minded body. See, it's not a just a physical thing. It also is a it's a quantification of their attitude. It's a quantification of their cognitive, overall cognitive facility and inclination created versus linear thinking. It's metabolic inclinations dealing with like metabolic X Syndrome. Are they round? Are they rectangular? Are they triangular in geometric terms? Okay, now if you know that, and you want to have this as an integrative approach, or as an eclectic complementary medicine approach, then if you had a basic understanding of the trigosia, for example, that you could make a fairly accurate prompt for the medical AI. So what you would do is ask the same query that you did before, and then you would insert for a patient with vata excess the protein, and then just adding those magic words for vata, excess Nikhil, you get a whole nother framework of a recommendation for an herbal procedure or manual procedure, maybe a meditative procedure. There have actually been studies from the Maharishi Mahesh Institute. In the past, I was a MAPI certified ayurvedic doctor through the Maharishi Ayurveda. So they did triple blind studies, and they found out that meditation, through meditation, you can change the pH of the saliva in the mouth. Change the pH is saliva in the mouth by literally changing your breath pattern and thinking about scientific triple blind smoke. So there's a mental and Ayurveda says this is what bottom that it's not just about. I'm going to pull the sesame oil for 20 minutes, which I agree is arduous. Not my favorite, okay, but it is a thing. It is quite commonly used. But why bottom? Because it has a peculiar way of addressing a mental state that goes along with the periodontal disease. So in western science, maybe we don't know that there is a psychology that can be correlated with periodontal disease. And what we're beginning to find out is that there actually may be mechanisms through these twin you guys know this better than I do, right? Because you're you're from everything I know, integrative medicine guys, functional medicine guys, osteopathic medical guys, you know it better than I do, okay, but that there's, there is this psychoneuroimmunology, and there's This research into hormones and into other factors that may have impact on cognitive function and bad oral health. Periodontal disease, excessive plaque cavitations, etc, are producing toxins which have an impact on hormones. And those hormones can have an impact on mental acuity and on mental and emotional function. You follow me, so in Ayurveda, in these classical native traditions of medicine, they always wanted to have as part of the picture. In India, it's called the drug picture. I'm not offended by it, you know, it doesn't mean I'm promoting Pfizer. It's just since the 1850s in English, in India, the English referred to traditional herbal medicine in India as drugs. So they didn't care turmeric, but me, they didn't care cardamon or ashwagandha, if it was used medically, the English termed it a drug. And that caught on, and today in the national medical system of India. They refer to Ayurveda medicines as Ayurveda drugs, right? And part of the idea is the practitioner develops what they call the drug picture. The drug picture is a assessment of dosha and balance, which has direct observation, physical constituents, metabolic testing, even blood testing, pH testing, microscopy, MRIs, whatever they use that in India today, now, okay, but also mental, emotional, familial. In other words, you might say patient looks fine in 100 different ways, but their family is not right. Their family situation is completely messed up. Now I don't know if my patient is the one causing the family to be messed up, or is the victim of the messed up family. I don't know, but if I was using AI to come up with a complex diagnostic approach, a differential diagnostic approach, I would also throw in the front and also in a violent, dysfunctional family, because it will actually generate a different outcome, because it's also going to attend to things that might have to do with compliance. Because compliant in the office is not the same that you know this, compliant in the office is not the same thing as compliant at home, right?

Speaker 5  1:13:22
Let me, let me interject here. Go ahead, doctor, some of the the models that are presented for diagnosis are not necessarily conceived by healthcare practitioners, just like your EHR, your electronic medical record, is a conceived by people who know how to do programming, and many of these people, they don't have a logic of flow, of how things happen. So when you try to use the EMR, you're stuck because it doesn't flow very well. Same thing for people trying to diagnose things with AI, they tend to put in queries questions, and then based on the question, they're going to come up with a diagnosis and treatment protocols. But if the query itself is wrong, whatever you put in is what you get. Then in the end, the whole recommendation that is given to you is wrong. So AI bias is, I mean hallucination, will call it. But these hallucinations, they're not benign. They can be very dangerous for the patients. So it's very important for someone, even if the company is giving us a diagnosis, to for us to really vest it and check it, making sure that this tool works very well with patient history, because a lot of time the history the AI is based on data that is in the past. So in present, if you put something in there, it doesn't recognize that those of you who have used it, sometimes said, my knowledge goes up to 2023 my knowledge goes up to 2023 that means whatever the past two years. AI has no clue about that, and that all reflects in the data that we're getting. In the end, you whatever query you're putting in is not giving you what you want, and we're going to make medical decisions or treatment decisions based on what we put in it. I think that's a big, big bias, and all of us have to be aware of it.

Speaker 4  1:15:44
Yeah, and that becomes especially important if you work in again, that's, this is what Bruce Lee called prejudice of style, because my primary interest and emphasis tribal Native American. So in those communities, what we're seeing is the AI medical diagnostic software recommended by the National Institute of Health Indian health care for use and clinical facilities

Unknown Speaker  1:16:25
doesn't recognize Native American medicine, and it doesn't have a database,

Speaker 4  1:16:33
and so that's something we would like to change. It's a tricky situation, isn't it? Dr Tano, because some of these traditions are oral, they've been passed down through generations as oral traditions. You might have some recordings of people, of elders from the turn of the century at the Smithsonian, but does aI have access to those reporting transcripts from these old recordings of medicine elders at the Smithsonian and in fact, they don't. Okay right now, Smithsonian is actually not allowing these archival databases to be accessed by AI. And I guess they have genuine concerns on proprietary cultural heritage. You know, they have a list of reasons why that is. But on on the functional side, we need that information when we need transcripts, we need to decipher these oral traditions into functional applications and formula that we can use today.

Speaker 5  1:17:52
So in essence, when they say that AI is going to replace people in medicine, is going to be very difficult for AI to replace people, because in order for you to use the AI algorithm that they have, you have to know what you're talking about, and you have to be able to recognize errors that will be made. So if you're not well trained in whatever medicine you're practicing and you just want to rely on AI, because some people would do that. You already know there are some people who go get diplomas and they'll call themselves the doctors that they can but don't. They never went to medical school. I mean, if we had that in the past, now, with AI, we're going to get so many people who would practice medicine with our license, because they couldn't. Can try, but can say, Okay, I have this algorithm. I can just put it in, and then I will get information, and I can treat the patient, but if you have no true training, you may not get what you want, and that could be dangerous for the patients.

Speaker 4  1:18:59
I'll give you one I had yesterday in the clinic. Had a client patient whose cancer patient came into the clinic with five pages of an AI diagnostic prognostic protocol, which was completely different from what I would recommend to her and had recommended to her previously, and literally, she wanted me to argue how the AI should not she shouldn't consider the AI over me, because the AI is, you know, cutting edge, cutting edge, right? And it was an interesting conversation, but she actually brought it in. I'm glad she did that, because when I looked at it, I could see, I could generally see what the AI was trying to do based on her prompt, right? But her prompt was terrible, right? It was just, what's the best cancer treatment for bilateral multi myeloma, organ, invasive breast cancer with leukemia, that's it, right?

Speaker 5  1:20:23
So we thought, we thought dr, dr, Google was bad about it. Dr AI, is going to be probably

Speaker 4  1:20:30
worse now. Dr AI, I wanted to see there was something else. Okay, so, and we've talked about this before, and I want to promote this to you guys, to this group, that you consider the importance of maybe learning a new language for your practice, and that language is AI medical prompt language that you become a master of crafting and articulating prompts for the AI that will dive deep and will consider not just tangible, as in, oh, it was in a clinical trial, but also intangible wherever that might be available, to give you more of an umbrella or overall approach. Now you can have other uses for it. I'm not saying this is the only use. I'm just saying though, we need to actually create a really deep dive course into prompting, medical prompting, for AI specifically learn a new language, learn how to speak more precisely. You know, it's just like in the past you wanted to search up something in the func and Wagner's, you went by the primary word and you search for it alphabetically in the funk and Waggles, it was alphabetically indexed. Yeah, it was 11 volumes, but Volume One was a, and the last volume was index. But you know, went from A to Z, right? So if you wanted to look for something on zebras, even, what's the average width of a zebra stripe, and why do zebras have stripes, you still had to go to Z. And so you would just go to z, okay, well, AI is not like that. AI is not like that. It uses next level Boolean language models, which require you to have layered prompts,

Speaker 5  1:22:54
and that is actually correct. I mean, I use AI a lot, but you have to be a very good prompt engineer to get what you want. Because if you just go to chat GPT and put whatever, okay, give me that, then the hallucinations and all the other problems crop up. So if you really a good prompt engineer and put in the right thing that you want, and specifically tell AI to do certain things for you. You may get what you want. It's not all wrong, but you have to know how to prompt it, and that's very, very important. I have looked at AI technology that writes books and many of those guys, they just Okay, put the one line in there, and then you get a book that is completely wrong, because you can get a book, but in that book really something that makes sense, probably not, in order for you To get a good book out of a good software, you have to be able to prompt it perfect, perfectly well. You have to have many, many layers that you can put in to get the AI to consider exactly what you want that to say. And when you do it right, it will be as if it's coming from your head, and you put it on the paper because you prompted correctly from what you wanted to get. Oh, I

Speaker 4  1:24:27
agree 100% I want to throw in there 2.1 if, if you're not a software engineer, and you think that you can wrangle AI the first time you get on it, into giving you the secrets of the universe, you're sadly mistaken, even delusional, correct? And there are a lot of people that have a delusional faith and AI outcomes, and they're asking silly questions, and they're getting dramatically silly answers, and they're assuming, because these dramatically silly answers are being generated by the AI, that that means there's sophistication In the answer, and that it's true, and that's actually not true. So that was one and the other thing. And I know Dr Tanner, you're really the best person to do this. Maybe you're the only person I know, two people in the world, right? Three, who could do this. But you mentioned the term logic flow, and so for the particular patient and the particular issue, the question that's being asked, you have to have a logic flow. Great. And if you want predictable outcomes, that logic flow has to be very consistent, correct, right, consistent.

Speaker 5  1:26:13
And also, like for a book, you have to be able to reference whatever other chapters have covered, right? You don't do that and you linearly say, okay, just give me that that, and we give you information, but they're not relating. It would be repeating itself several times and give you bunch of information that is not related, but if reference to previous chapters or previous things that you have done in the prompt, then it gives you something logical that follows, just like a human being would be writing it.

Speaker 4  1:26:54
Yeah, so for example, on the overall logic flow of the prompt. So, you know, we all, we're all going to have to become masters of creating a prop for a particular patient, right? Because that patient is unique, like a fingerprint. And if we want an accurate result from the AI, we have to be able to feed the fingerprint into the reader. So that means a whole, I'm saying, holistic, consideration of the patient's issue, of the patient and their issue, and then as far as outcomes on on recommendations, if you don't put that you want to consider, for example, in your prompt integrative health approaches, you're not going To get the integrative health approaches. If you don't put that you also want to look at non invasive, functional plant based equivalent solutions or the drugs that are being recommended, then you won't get the plant based recommendations, and you might have the mistaken impression that they don't exist. And in fact, for many, the plant based recommendations are far more functional, far more predictable, far less invasive than their drug counterparts.

Speaker 5  1:28:40
So Doctor James, I think in time, in terms of time interest, yeah, sorry, I know. Let's try to answer some of their questions. Yeah. Then I know people can comment, and everybody is open you, you guys can ask the questions, and we can answer those questions, or if anything, oh, I

Speaker 4  1:29:01
made a PDF. Dr Clearfield, did you get that on this discussion? The PDF? Yeah, I was going to say, if you thought it was a good idea, I could put the PDF for the lecture in the Yeah, if

Bill Clearfield  1:29:18
you send it to me, we can put it on our website.

Speaker 4  1:29:21
Okay, I did that already, but, okay, no, sorry, I sent it to Dr. Okay, I'll send it to you.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:34
Okay, we'll send it on our website. Okay, the one there's one question, really, is there, is there a database website that allows you to input characteristics that would direct you to a specific meridians? Yeah? I mean, there's a few of them that I know of

Speaker 4  1:29:58
you. Mean, as far as just a database of, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:02
you know, I think what they're looking for is either symptoms and it'll, it'll come up with a, you know, a point formula, or even a you know, or you know, even a diet, Even a Western diagnosis, to translate it to TCM and then come up with some formulations. There's a couple of them, you know, we're doing the CME thing here. So when we're done that, I mentioned the ones that I know, right?

Speaker 4  1:30:34
Yeah, that they're still in development. Because here, here's the thing. So for every Meridian imbalance, there are a minimum of 12 variations that are specific to time of day, season, age and gender of the client, at least 12. So whenever you have a patent, oh, this point for that, even even large intestine for for headache, most common thing you know, poster child for occupy, right, right. Okay. But when you, when you go into large intestine for and large intestine meridian, and you start to look at the variables or permutations on using that point, that it's not even about needling, the point that you have eight different angles that you can put the needle in the point, and you have four different depths that you can put to the point to whether you're going to affect the collateral, the related, the TSM, the trans heptaneous, you know, in other words, just for one point, we could do a deep, Deep Dive into a whole weekend seminar on large intestine four. So as far as these online databases, yes, some of them are actually doing pretty good. I think it's a good job generally, right? But nobody's using them to practice. In fact, acupuncture practice is far simpler than what they show we're we're Dr Burgess, who I see is on this call. I hope he's still here. He's recommended that we that we recommend, or that we promote, a very simple system that anybody can do anywhere with literally a couple of hours of training that's based on, really no more than about 20 points on about Six Meridians.

Speaker 2  1:32:53
And we can do that because it turns out to be an extremely safe procedure, if not one of the safest or the safest in the world, yes, and that's why we can be so open about doing some studies and research on this. It's simple and it works, but it's safe, and

Speaker 4  1:33:15
acupuncture is you mentioned it again. What's hard about acupuncture for AI? Well, you had very, very famous acupuncture doctors at the turn of the century who were still alive in the 70s, when acupuncture as a practice really came out of China. 1973 Nixon opened China Tour, etc. But there, for example, there was a acupuncture doctor in Japan. His name was Dr annaway. He was famous for treating all diseases with one long needle through the navel. Okay? He would use one long needle. That needle is like six inches, like this

Speaker 2  1:34:04
long you can do you can do that. Our little group, our research ethical research committee, is trying to advance research in this area, and we're welcoming patients to join us in that research. So when we expand the homeo puncture, combine the acupuncture with the homeopathy, we can do it with the patient's consent, guidance and help. You know, because I'm saying we know nothing, but we're trying to do research to find out, right?

Speaker 4  1:34:38
So my point about Dr anyway is one needle to cure all disease is complicated. It's not simple. It's not simple. It seems simple. ONE needle, 1.1 navel. How hard could it be? But you know, it's like he said in his words, it took him 60 years to work out how to do it, and nobody else really could do it. So we're not going to come up with a real simple system only based on about 20 points easy to locate, with about 20 categories of conditions with a very simple diagnostic that anybody can learn. But back to the AI conversation. This is still beyond the scope of AI. No, this is beyond the scope of AI, okay, but understanding clinical applications of points and so on. Yeah, there's some of this is now showing up in AI, and there's some websites that are pretty good as far as general point remedies or predictors for particular conditions. They're all very, very modern, if you will. So I don't know that I would recommend them. I would occasionally use one if it was some obtuse thing, okay, but for most acupuncture it is okay to miss the point. I know I'm not supposed to say that. I'm an acupuncture doctor. I'm not supposed to say it's okay sometimes to miss the point. Why? Because if you really study subo and you understand that it's a field, right?

Speaker 2  1:36:29
But that's that's also why we need to do the research. We have to count how many people we kill by misplacing a drop or a homeopathic or using a certain word, so, but we need to do the research so we really know what's going on here. Because sometimes, if it's extremely safe, we have to deal with that issue.

Speaker 4  1:36:51
It is extremely safe. But I still haven't heard of or met one person who died from having a drop of a homeopathy anywhere in the world. I've never heard of that. That's part of why I recommend homeopathy is, I think, you know, I'm not saying it's perfectly or completely safe, because I don't know. You know, that's

Speaker 2  1:37:17
why we're doing research. We're doing research for reason. But I do say this

Speaker 4  1:37:23
other research on millions and millions of patients has been done, and by and large, it's very, very safe. But the point of this, as far as AI goes, is that because homeopathy has this idea of the determination of my assets as as an umbrella choice for repertoire that is something only a human can do. So you have to be able to eyeball the client. So there are just these artifacts that AI cannot duplicate AI cannot look at you and say, like I asked you, the client, how are you doing? And you look me right in the eye, and you go, I'm fine. Everything's, you know, terrific, but my eye tells me you're sad and depressed.

Speaker 5  1:38:19
I think there are many more questions. Dr, James, so. Dr, Chris,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:26
actually, I don't know. Dr, narrate. You got any online questions?

Speaker 1  1:38:30
Yes, I do. So thank you for that great conversation that you guys presented. There is always an a question about ethics in relation to using AI. And we all know this, as you guys mentioned, that decision support tools are usually assisted by basically the decision maker when you mentioned about prompts, which is the human part of this. So question was actually, how can clinicians ethically, ethically use AI while minimizing harm. So in your perspective, in your studies, in your reading, what are the more ethical prominent conversations that we need to have here?

Speaker 5  1:39:11
Doctor channel, yeah, so you know, first of all, like I said in the beginning, you have to know what you're talking about. You cannot just go to AI and say, Okay, I have this problem. Can you solve it for me? You have to know basically what outcome you will be trying to get before you get the AI to give you something. Otherwise any Joe Johnson will come and say, hey, I can do AI now. I can solve problems. That's what I was saying. People will go and say, I have a license to practice when actually they're using AI and they don't know anything about the condition. So before for intellectual honesty, before you go and do anything with the AI, you have to know what is behind you have to know the disease, condition, or whatever you're trying to do to making sure that whatever results you get, you can interpret it and be sure that is correct. Otherwise, it's like you are in the zoo and you put in all kinds of things in, and it comes out bad, and you trust that, then you kill patients and you're not going to do so hard. So definitely we have to be very careful, and that's why the prompting engineering comes in. But that alone is not going to solve your problem unless you know what you're talking about.

Speaker 4  1:40:35
Same question, the question, on the practitioner has to take full and complete responsibility,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:48
right? Can't be

Speaker 4  1:40:50
Well, I'm not responsible because the AI told me responsibility at all times

Speaker 5  1:41:01
they have to anyway, because you're liable if a patient doesn't do well, right?

Speaker 4  1:41:06
Well, that's what Dr font said was the issue. It's not a question that they they had this perception that the AI was was smarter than them, you know, more knowledgeable than that, so they would defer to the AI in a result. And here's the thing, that's what we don't want, right? Don't want a deference to the AI over the clinicians judgment. Right?

Speaker 1  1:41:38
I think that one one point here is supposed to be in the future, there should be what we call regulatory audits of these AI systems, meaning a higher power than us probably will do this, because there's so many AI generators now that you just don't know which is which. And hopefully one of these days, I don't know how realistic that would be, there will be something that will police that in order for us to really get true information out of artificial intelligences that are out there,

Speaker 4  1:42:07
well, it'll have to be an AI. Well,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:11
AI, it's on an AI. So uh,

Speaker 4  1:42:16
Dr Nario, in our book, we go into that in ad nauseam, the recommendations for regulatory oversight, third party actors with human moderators, who are sophisticated, right? But we laid out the possible international, national national event, company, regulatory type of structures to check and double check what AI is actually generate, right?

Speaker 1  1:42:54
And also we have to, as clinicians, we have to remember now that AI is getting to be a part of our system. So we have to remember AI scribes are getting used out there, and this is something that also needs to be part of the informed consent of the patient, because none some of them, they would not be agreeable for them to be recorded during a consult. And because now it's so new, I know practitioners are overlooking this, but in the future, and also for the safety of practices, this is to be something that should be observed. I mean, as early as now, we should probably start these good have these good habits installed, and

Speaker 5  1:43:32
as we use that, I use that daily in my practice, I have this AI scribe called freed. Freed like you're free. Also hallucinate. I mean, what? When people are talking or you're doing something, it goes off the tangent to write all kinds of wrong things. So if you get the transcribed, and you don't go through it and read it carefully, then you have a wrong patient, run data that you put it out there, and now your

Speaker 4  1:44:04
colleague was that was what I was talking about before generative hallucinations, right? Could be mistranscribed.

Speaker 5  1:44:14
Yeah, it does. It does make a lot of mistakes, so you have to root three read through the transcripts, making sure that is correct, and that all the data you put in the lab result that you put in our correct, because it just makes up things.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:30
It makes up references all the time.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:34
Yes, it does that.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:38
Yeah, I found that one out so, so make sure you check every single reference. In fact, I don't even bother asking them for references anymore, because they're wrong more more than that, more than they're right. They make them up, and they just don't even exist. So right?

Speaker 4  1:44:53
I did one where I got like five different references, completely different citations, right? And when I opened up each one, they were all the same null page. There were five different citations to five different studies that when I opened them, it went to the same page, which was a no response and no information, but it was an active link in the citations, and it had a different title for every for every reference. Okay, are there any other questions?

Speaker 1  1:45:30
Yeah, there's here. It's a curious question they got. I mean, I'm sure you guys have a lot of reading and experiences with this. Do you have a real world example of AI bias in healthcare, I mean, a specific incident. So this is a question of curiosity, I guess.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:49
Dr Tano, do you have

Speaker 5  1:45:51
any So, for instance, for skin diagnosis, like for cancers and stuff like that, whatever is in real life. That has been programmed in the AI is what is going to come out many times for dark skinned people, it is very difficult to diagnose cancer. And so if we program in the AI, what is the regular diagnosis for the general population that it looks at like Caucasians and stuff. Then if you take African Americans or other people who have dark skin, it may not be able to diagnose it, and that's one really big, big problem that we have in terms of bias.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:39
Well, this reminded

Speaker 4  1:46:42
me of one of the things that we found out was because of what Dr Tano is referencing, that the incidence of misdiagnosis in Africa was 80% higher than in western latitudes with more care complexions, right?

Speaker 1  1:47:01
Right? So this kind of reminded me of a story of a 2019 study in science that an AI tool was used by US hospitals to predict which patients needed extra care, systematically underestimated the needs of black patients. As you said, it's becoming now cultural and basically in relation to skin of color and why? It because it was used for healthcare spending as a proxy for healthcare needs when they were looking at this data, and then, historically, in this study, less money was spent on black patients due to disparities because of access right the algorithm incorrectly assumed that they were healthier than they were because they were not getting this access to health care. So this impacted millions of patients in the African American community. So again, that's why danger is still there. Caution is still should be observed by everyone, because we're so young in this technology and we need heads like you guys to definitely conglomerate to make this even better.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:00
Any questions on prompts or prop writing,

Speaker 1  1:48:04
you can bring it up. I guess those are my questions on my end. Thank you so much.

Speaker 6  1:48:08
And can I bring in a couple points? Because, you know, I spend a lot of time with computers. And right to COBOL, I said, What am I doing up three o'clock in the morning, four o'clock in the morning, punching cards and programming and compiling. And so what I wanted to say about AI, you have to have knowledge, accuracy and integrity, but how you broke in you know the human creativity and artistry in the real sense. And how do you know your intuition is right. And how do you know the AI has correct intuition, so you know? How do you know that you come up with, say, different protocols and the shoe is going to fit, how you going to project it, how you can project it?

Speaker 5  1:48:54
So sure, that's what I was saying. You have to actually be knowledgeable first, and then have aI give you something that you can rely on. So you

Speaker 6  1:49:07
get to have experience and intuition, and you can get your set of

Speaker 5  1:49:10
ai, that's right, you have to have experience and intuition. And then you can use AI as a tool to give you additional information that you need to complement what you have. Otherwise, if you rely just on AI to give you what you want, you may never get that, because if you're not knowledgeable, you're not going to even recognize that what AI is giving you is wrong, and

Speaker 6  1:49:37
how's the AI going to know the right thing about individualized diet and lifestyle,

Speaker 5  1:49:43
you have to prompt it. You have to be able to prompt it and tell it exactly what you want in that.

Speaker 6  1:49:49
So I said, instead of punching cards, you get to punch around prompts.

Speaker 5  1:49:53
Yeah, you put in the prompt and you indicate to the AI, I won't be specifically for, for instance, if you say, Okay, I would like you to give me a protocol on all the orthomolecular medicine protocols for such such thing, disease. And you know what basic protocols are, it will come up with supplement list, and we give you also be supplement dosing that you need. If you look at it and you know what supplement or these supplements are doing, then you will be sure that this protocol, the AI gave you is correct.

Speaker 6  1:50:35
But there's probably calibration in dosing too.

Speaker 5  1:50:39
Yeah, it varies. So if, unless you know that, you're not going to be able to tell. And so if you have no training in functional medicine or ortho Molecular Medicine, and you tell the AI to give you protocols, it will give you a protocol that you cannot interpret. And so as a result, you're going to use that on patients and it will be wrong.

Speaker 6  1:51:02
Well, can AI treat allergy sublingually and know the right things to give a patient?

Speaker 5  1:51:09
If you prompt right? It can tell you dosing. It can tell you all this stuff, sublingual immunotherapy, all of those things you have the knowledge and experience, right? You have to have the knowledge and experience. That's what I was saying. Yeah, wax out there. I mean, quack, we call them. Many people who have no training who would think, okay, AI can give me anything. I'm going to just make it up, and I will have AI to give me protocols that I can use in patients. And those protocols will be wrong, and then that is dangerous for the patients.

Speaker 6  1:51:40
So it's like a recipe, it can taste delicious, but is it healthy? That's correct.

Speaker 5  1:51:47
So you have to be very, very careful and know what you're talking about. And I was like, by experience, I mean, I do that all the time. When I write books, I do all kinds of things. I make sure that whatever the AI saying it makes sense, because if it doesn't, you just playing around.

Speaker 6  1:52:07
So let's say, when you practice medicine, you do it as an art form, because you have the knowledge and experience, right? And can AI create art?

Speaker 5  1:52:17
And the human does it. Can create art, but I mean, you have to get it to create that art for you,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:23
yeah. But is it Aaron? Look

Bill Clearfield  1:52:27
at look at Dr Tanner's background there.

Speaker 5  1:52:31
Yeah, look at my background with my key in my brain.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:35
You see the key in the right?

Speaker 4  1:52:38
So any other questions curiosities, input

Bill Clearfield  1:52:47
going once, going twice. Thank you so much.

Speaker 4  1:52:50
We're doing our prompts here. What's the output? Okay, all right, let me ask the question is there, can anybody identify one thing that they were either not knowledgeable of surprised or was new for them in this discussion, just one thing. Was there, anything does everybody already know this?

Speaker 5  1:53:19
In fact, in His leg is getting late. So many people have left, so the people who were there before,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:25
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:26
okay, okay, thank you both for it was, it was a little different. And thanks. Thank you for your you know your your expertise. Next week we have Dr de Silva. Derek de Silva. Derek de Silva is going to be back with us. He's going to be talking about the glycocalyx. So back, back to medicine stuff. So we met with Kevin veer lander to work on the website for the conference, if the the you guys in the in the research group to get us a a a speaking list ASAP so we can get this up and going. I'd like to have it out by a week from Friday. So the sooner you get it, the better. I need a biography of about 100 words, a CV, a picture, and we'll get you a financial disclosure page to sign. And that's so that's what we need for from each speaker. They settled, we, I, we settled on, on a a conference fee for CME, for physicians of 695, for in house. 595, for a virtual 395, for retired and allied health professionals, which would be nurses, nurse practitioners, physician assistants and strict homeopaths. $200 for lay people. 250 a day for you know those you know medical medical personnel, especially if you're getting CME credits, if they're only coming for a day. And $95 for students and residents. And any objection to that, it's the same thing that we charged in 2021 it's the exact same fee schedule, so

Speaker 5  1:55:25
there was no inflation here. Yeah, no, no,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:29
that's what we charged in 2021 right? So, you know, it has, we haven't gone up. And if you've got, I mean, every conference that I, that I'm looking at is 1400 1600 you know, the ones we want to go to, even Noma, 750 and that's pretty, pretty

Speaker 4  1:55:48
generic. How soon will we have a website? We can direct

Bill Clearfield  1:55:51
people. We the websites being worked on as we speak. Like I said, I want, we'd like to put this, you know, the speaker list up. We can put placeholders in between, but it that should be ready within, within one week, and then we'll be able to get it out. Okay, okay, so the sooner you can get me your speaker list, and you know, we'll assign times we're going to give you guys Thursday Mostly. Then the sooner we can get it completed. Okay, yep, all righty, any questions, any comments, any complaints.

Speaker 7  1:56:31
No, I just want to, I just want to say that I also take some classes with a doctor. He's a yogi. He's a yogi. He and he tells us so many things on this is on Thursday, and it's very interesting, because he tells us so many other things about structure, water, different things. So, yeah, I mean, I mean, the medicine and the healing, it's so broad, and it can be, it's amazing.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:11
I think, why don't you get us his name and contact, and maybe we can have more?

Speaker 7  1:57:16
Yeah, he's so good. And actually, I'm definitely, I definitely know that he would like to come he was also trained to do stem cells from the blood. He said that only six in the country were trained by doctor or video or something like that. I was at the conference with Health Alliance, and then I met him there, and we pay $500 and he does lectures with us every Thursday with peptides, and he tells us everything about the peptides treatment, ASEA, water. So I learned a lot also from him. And it's very interesting, because he also has a lot of like, he told us that the way that we sleep in the bed, we have to sleep with the head. I forgot now which direction, because that time I remember, but now I forgot. Otherwise, it can affect our the energy of the earth can affect our brain, something like that.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:21
But you have to face, not,

Speaker 7  1:58:23
yeah, you have to face a certain way. And I was, at that time, I was thinking of, I have to turn my way, the way I sleep. But a lot of very interesting things every time,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:33
okay, yep, get me his, get me his contact. And, um, we'll, uh, we'll try and get them

Speaker 7  1:58:40
on, yeah. Dr Chokshi, and he also did a DNA. He has a DNA like Dr like, Dr Cohan. He has some DNA that he does. He does genetic and epigenetic coaching too.

Speaker 4  1:58:56
Dr Clearfield, I sent you by email, also a query about a possible presenter, also

Bill Clearfield  1:59:06
about what was that

Speaker 4  1:59:08
I sent you an email I heard about a possible presenter that might be exciting for your group. Okay, it's a friend of mine. Okay, great.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:20
Okay, make sure I got it okay. Well, I'll run it down. Okay, all right, everybody, I forgot the CME credit is 11520, it's always the same, E, D, s.com/em/and, here's the number for this week, 11520, I'll have it in the email flyer next week. Okay, thank you so much. I will be sending you the participant list and the video when, when it's ready. Okay, so thank you everybody, and good night. And I have to let you know that I like it way better on it when I'm on the West Coast, because I'm ready to fall asleep here. Okay, good night everybody.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:15
Good night. Good

Unknown Speaker  2:00:16
night everybody. Thank you. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai