Unknown Speaker  00:32
Mr. Bill, yep.

Bill Clearfield  00:35
How's everything? I'll get Okay, good. I'll get you in as a co host here in a sec.

Speaker 1  00:43
How are you pretty good. Did you see Doctor Messina already? He wanted to get in early, just to kind of get the controls. Okay. Was he Sarah's

Bill Clearfield  00:59
here, that's his that's his assistant. She's on So, okay, okay, Sarah allsanger, right, yeah, that's his assistant. Alright? Sky, right here. Sarah will singers. She's looking good these days.

Unknown Speaker  01:22
Sarah's hanging. Sarah's

Bill Clearfield  01:24
got a it says, Sarah allsang, you're on our

Unknown Speaker  01:29
Sarah's on hand here. So

Bill Clearfield  01:31
looks like Sarah had got a haircut.

Unknown Speaker  01:35
No Sarah's Casey,

Speaker 2  01:36
no mark. I think you need to rename yourself. You say, Sarah. Oh, wow, look at that. I think she sent us her link,

Speaker 3  01:44
but I liked it that he referred to Sarah as my assistant, right?

Bill Clearfield  01:51
Well, I don't I what do I know she's one I've been writing with. So I know from nothing, Alright, we're good. So this young guy?

Speaker 2  02:03
Oh, this is Jackson. He had to join for a little bit here before bedtime.

Bill Clearfield  02:08
He's looking, he's looking pretty interested there, right? I

Unknown Speaker  02:11
know he's ready.

Unknown Speaker  02:13
He's about to be one of two. Yep,

Bill Clearfield  02:18
we're gonna, we're gonna, we're gonna indoctrinate him early. So, you know, yeah, most, most everybody on our on this list is like, like, like, me here, Mark with, you know, the silver hair, we didn't get started at this business until after we've been beaten around by the real doctors. So

Unknown Speaker  02:36
is he drinking soy already?

Unknown Speaker  02:39
Yes, we just had tofu last night. Actually.

Bill Clearfield  02:43
Here we go. He's also, we

Speaker 3  02:46
can do a 40 year follow up study with an n of one. That's right, I'll

Unknown Speaker  02:52
get you another one here in a month.

Bill Clearfield  02:56
Okay, so most everybody filters in right close to five we get folks still showing up, sometimes all the way till 530 we'll let them in. You've run this before, right on Zoom, so I assume, I assume all you need to do is share the screen there, that little green thing at the bottom there, and your slides will come up, and at the end of at the end of the show, we'll send you a contact list and a copy of the video. Perfect. We are. We do have CME credit available, so I'm not sure how many actually take advantage of it. So for everybody out there that's listening all the see all the CMEs that have been accredited are on our weekly email list down at the bottom there, all you do is the videos there and then how to get the CME credit is right next to it. It's two credits for each class, and it's $30 and I did, I did a bunch of them, you know, if you're at the end of the year, if you need CME credits, you know, it's a good way to do it. It's easy, it doesn't cost a whole lot, so it's a good way to go, and it's a little little perk or bonus for us. So

Speaker 1  04:27
just want to welcome a colleague of mine, doctor Eric estevedo, from Florida. So I met him in Germany, and he's joining us. He's, yeah, he's very, very well trained in terms of anti aging principles. So welcome, Dr Eric. Feel free to join us if you have any comments suggestions, just to unmute yourself and it's all out. The nice

Bill Clearfield  04:51
thing about being on Zoom is, if you have tomatoes to throw, it's going to come right back at you. So we've

Unknown Speaker  04:59
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  05:02
Thanks for being with us. Good to see you. Yeah, we're headed. We're headed for a 4m one. I'm going tomorrow night. I'm leaving. And yeah, I'll be there too. And so the tomatoes will be real then. So,

Speaker 1  05:17
oh, Doctor Messina, I'm sure you had your tomatoes thrown at you who are talking about the controversy of soy. So there will be virtual ones. I hope not much. I

Speaker 3  05:28
haven't added any tomatoes, but I got booed one time when I responded to a question about genetic modification.

Speaker 1  05:38
Well, yeah, we're going to mute everybody, so you won't be hearing the booze. Won't be

Bill Clearfield  05:42
hearing you won't be hearing the booze. I don't know in the thing can you do? I know there's a hand that goes up. Can you do a thumbs down too? You can stop. So we, you know, we, we, we encourage honoriness. So my

Speaker 3  06:02
my presentation is about 50 minutes. Does that work? I can shorten it. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  06:06
that's fine. No, no, no, that's good. That's good. We usually go about an hour, an hour and a half with the questions,

Unknown Speaker  06:15
everybody, you're muted,

Bill Clearfield  06:18
okay, yeah, we usually go an hour, an hour to an hour and a half, sometimes even two hours, especially if Dr Halas was on. It goes, go. Some can go a little bit longer than than you wanted. Do you

Speaker 3  06:38
want to save the question for the question for the end? Or you want to do speaking? Usually

Bill Clearfield  06:44
we, usually we save them at the end. And and so dr Nario has opened our group up to a whole I mentioned to your assistant, you know, we usually get quite a, quite a few participants from the Philippines, and he gets email questions there from them. So, so we'll, we'll, uh, ask him at the end. Also, okay, we,

Speaker 1  07:10
we put out the, the good comment, the good questions. So it's all going to be in favor for for you,

Bill Clearfield  07:18
there's no bad questions. Yeah, we feel. We filter out. We filter out the bad ones, you know. So, Dr

Speaker 1  07:26
Messina, had already a talk. I think you did a recent talk. Right about this in your channel.

Speaker 3  07:34
I've given 800 talks on soy. So, okay,

Bill Clearfield  07:39
good, too. So like that, like my like my mother used to would say to me, says, you think you know you've been doing this a while, you should know what you're talking about, right?

Unknown Speaker  07:52
All right. Data changed. The jokes are the same.

Bill Clearfield  07:54
Yeah, you can change the memes. You can change the jokes. It's okay. So you know when, when soy became a thing, at least in my in my sphere of life. So I was raised by the Archie Bunker of Philadelphia. Those of you are too young to remember who Archie Bunker was. He was World War Two veteran and upstanding citizen and a little bit bigoted, so, you know, cows, but we had cows milk delivered to our house twice a week, and white bread also, you know, we had the milk man. And when somebody mentioned soy, it was like, you know, we, you know, he was like, looking at you would be looking at him like a like, he had 16 heads, you know, that was almost blasphemy, so, and then so he became a good thing for a while, and then it became a bad thing for a while, and for and it still sort of has, as it has a negative connotation, because now it causes all sorts of endocrine issues. And so we have with us tonight, Dr Mark Messina, who's an expert on soy, and he is going to dispel the myths. He's going to give us the facts, and he's going to tell us that nearly everything we think we know about soy is wrong, and especially on breast cancer, thyroid disease and skin aging and cardiovascular disease. So Dr Messina is the director of nutrition and science and research for the soy nutrition Institute global over the past three decades, he's devoted his time to the study of the health effects of soy and soybean components such as ISO flavors, soy protein and soy soybean oil. He writes extensively on soy subjects. He has over 100 peer reviewed articles, and he's made over 800 presentations to both consumer and professional groups in 55 countries. He's the chairperson of the editorial advisory board of and writes a regular column for the soy connection, a quarterly newsletter that reaches 250,000 dieticians and other health professionals. He spearheads International Symposium on the role of soy and in preventing and treating chronic disease. And he organizes meetings large and small in the US, China, India and Italy. And he's co authored three books. So with that, quite an extensive resume, we are honored to have you, sir, and the floor is yours.

Unknown Speaker  10:42
Thank you very much.

Unknown Speaker  10:54
Okay, you can see my slides. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  10:56
they look fine. They're the There we go. Now, you got it all right?

Speaker 3  11:04
Well, it's good to be here. Thanks for giving me some time to share with you information about the health effects of soy foods and soybean components. I've been doing this, as was just noted, for more than 30 years. I find the field to be absolutely fascinating. There's so much research being published that really forces you to keep up with the literature. As you all know, soy foods have been consumed for many centuries, beginning first in China and then spreading to other Asian countries such as Japan. But in addition to the traditional Asian soy foods, there are the modern soy products that are made with one or more soy ingredients, soy protein ingredients. These ingredients range in protein content from 50% for soy flour to 90% for soy protein isolate. These ingredients are used as a base for making meat and dairy substitutes, and they're also added to a wide range of commonly consumed foods in order to boost protein content. Soybeans are really different from other legumes in terms of their macronutrient composition. As you can see here, most beans are about 26 to 28% protein on a caloric basis, whereas some varieties of soybeans get as much as 42% of their calories from protein. Most beans are also just about fat free, maybe two or 3% fat on a caloric basis. One exception is garbanzo beans or chickpeas. But you can see soybeans get nearly 50% of their calories from fat. So in addition to being higher in protein, soybean soy protein also is a really high quality protein, so I want to focus on that aspect for just a couple of minutes. Of course, when we think about protein quality, we're talking about the ability of a protein to meet the biological requirements for indispensable or essential amino acids. Now, two factors determine protein quality, digestibility. Obviously, if you can't digest the protein into it, either dipeptides or single amino acids, you're not going to be able to absorb those amino acids. And then the other one, and more important one, is essential amino acid content, because essential amino acid content plays a much bigger role than digestibility, because most proteins are fairly well digested. The standard method for evaluating protein quality, the method used by most regulatory bodies around the world, including here in the United States is the protein digestibility corrected amino acid score. This method simply uses the two factors I just discussed to determine protein quality. The highest score using this method is 1.0 that's a score that soy protein isolate receives. You can see that soy is a little bit higher in quality than beef and much higher in quality than the other plant proteins listed on this slide. Now some of you, and perhaps all of you have probably heard the term complete and incomplete protein. Complete proteins are said to contain all essential amino acids, all nine, whereas incomplete proteins contain some, but not all of the essential amino acids, that concept is actually complete nonsense, because all of the proteins contain all nine of the essential amino acids. Shown here is just the sum. Proteins are low in one or more essential amino acids relative to requirements. In fact, if a protein was missing in essential amino acids, it would have a protein quality score of zero. And you can see here that all of the or none of the plant proteins have a score above zero. Now, almond is a really low quality protein because it is very low in one of the essential amino acids, but all the proteins contain all nine essential amino acids. One of the questions that often comes up is how soy stacks up as a source of protein for building muscle and increasing strength. And I can't emphasize this point enough, resistance exercise is a key to increasing muscle mass and building strength, although additional protein, dietary protein, can help. So experts recommend consuming about 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight that is double the protein RDA of 0.8 grams per kilogram body weight. Now whey protein, which is 20% of the protein in cow's milk, is often considered to be the optimal source of protein, protein type for building muscle, because way is high in one particular branch chain, amino acid leucine, which is one of the key triggers for muscle protein synthesis. But soy really stacks up as well as whey and other animal proteins when it comes to building muscle. Here we have the results of a meta analysis of nine randomized control trials that was published in 2018 and the authors concluded, and I'm one of the authors, just for transparency, soy protein produces similar gains and strength and lean body mass in response to resistance exercise training as whey protein and other animal proteins. Now, if you're distrustful of the meta analysis for some reason, maybe it'll take Arnold's word for it. In a recent newsletter of his, he noted that a soy heavy vegan diet supports muscle growth and strength just as much as it was, never omnivorous way of life.

Unknown Speaker  17:25
When did he start doing that, though the vegan

Speaker 3  17:29
but he's not a vegan himself. He in his newsletter, he was citing research to show that soy protein was an excellent source of protein for building muscle.

Unknown Speaker  17:42
Yeah, it's not

Speaker 3  17:43
what he did, though. No, no, no, no, but, and I don't blame him, because, again, animal protein away protein until maybe 10 years ago. You know, we're really thought to be the ideal choices for building muscle. That is no longer considered to be the case. In fact, in the one paper that I showed you that indicated you need to double the RDA for protein source in that paper, and that's all the big folks in that field are co authors in that paper. In that paper, they note that protein type really plays a minor role in building muscle, and that's what this slide is meant to illustrate. The key is resistance exercise, training, hands down, total protein intake can be considered the icing on the cake, and protein type, perhaps the cherry. So the key is exercise, then total protein, then protein type. In addition to being a high quality protein, soy protein also lowers blood cholesterol levels. It's not a huge effect, certainly in comparison to statins, but you get about a three to 4% reduction in LDL, cholesterol levels. The first clinical studies showing soy protein lowered LDL cholesterol was published in 1967 so several decades ago,

Speaker 4  19:07
what would be the what would be the significance of this, of lowering clinically Yeah, well,

Speaker 3  19:16
I'm going to comment on that. But it's thought that over time, each 1% reduction in LDL lowers risk of coronary heart disease by one to 2% so it's it's a modest effect, but I think that certainly at the population level, it's very relevant. And then I'll talk in just a bit about why soy foods are especially relevant for coronary heart disease prevention. But I do want to point out that this is a direct effect of the protein. It's not because soy foods tend to be high in polyunsaturated fat. I'll talk about that in a moment. So this ability of soy protein that directly lower blood cholesterol levels was was formally recognized by the US Food and Drug Administration in 1999 when it approved a health claim for soy protein and heart disease. The claim reads 25 grams of soy protein per day as part of a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol may reduce risk of heart disease. So I mentioned at the onset that soybeans are quite high in fat, so it's important to have some understanding of the health effects and fatty acid composition of soybean oil, and also the fat in soy foods. Soybean oil plays a huge role in the world and US food supply. It's the number two edible oil consumed in the world, behind palm oil and in the United States, it's not even close. It's number one edible oil consumed. And incredibly, soybean oil accounts for over 7% of the calories consumed by Americans. So as you know, polyunsaturated fat lowers blood cholesterol levels when replacing saturated fat in the diet. So it's not surprising when you look at the fatty acid composition of soybean oil that lowers blood cholesterol levels. And in fact, in 2017 the US Food and Drug Administration approved the health claim for soybean oil and heart disease based on the ability of soybean oil to lower blood cholesterol levels. It has a low amount of saturated fat, 16% a moderate amount of monounsaturated fat. The predominant type of fat is polyunsaturated, 62% and importantly, soybean oil is one of the few good plant sources of both essential fatty acids, the Omega six essential fatty acid, linoleic acid, and the Omega three essential fatty acid, alpha linolenic acid. In fact, because of its widespread use in the United States, soybean oil accounts for over 40% of the US of our intake of both essential fatty acids. It would be difficult for many Americans to actually meet their essential, mega, three essential fatty acid requirement if it wasn't for the use of soybean oil. Now wall and oil, which is not readily used, is a good source of both essential fatty acids. Flax seed is as well, and is canola that's a good, good composition as well. So I mentioned that soy protein directly lowers blood cholesterol levels. David Jenkins and colleagues from University of Toronto published a paper more than a decade ago now, in which they looked at the intrinsic and entrance extrinsic effects of soy foods on LDL cholesterol levels. So the intrinsic effect is a direct effect of soy protein. The extrinsic effect is what happens when you consume soy foods that are high in polyunsaturated fat in place of protein rich sources that are high in saturated fat. And he estimated that when you're making that kind of substitution, that you're going to get anywhere from eight to 10% reduction in LDL cholesterol, I think that might be a little high of an estimate. I think it's probably closer to six to 8% but again, if you consider that every 1% reduction in LDL over time is thought to reduce risk of heart disease by one to 2% you know a six or 7% reduction is certainly significant. I mentioned that soybeans are very different from other legumes. They're actually different from all other foods, and that's because they are a uniquely rich source of isoflavones. And I entered the field in 1989 because of my interest in isoflavones, I was working for the National Cancer Institute here in the United States, if you're interested in ISO flavors and you're a nutritionist like I am, you're going to be interested in soy foods, and you can see how unique they are, because isoflavone intake in Japan, where soy foods are commonly consumed, is about 30 to 50 milligrams per day, whereas in the United States, Europe and Canada, it's no more than three milligrams per day. So for comparison, one serving of a traditional Asian soy food, such as a cup of soy milk made from whole soybeans, or three to four ounces of tofu, provides about 25 milligrams of isoflavone. So you can see in Japan, they're consuming between one and two servings of soy per day, you can come up with a pretty good estimate of the isoflavone content of our traditional Asian soy food if you know the amount of protein it provides, because they're about three to four milligrams per gram of protein. So if you consume a cup of soy milk that has seven or eight grams of protein in it, you're going to get about 25 milligrams isoflavones. Isoflavones are naturally occurring plant compounds. They're actually present in a wide range of foods, but with the exception of soybeans, they're present in negligible amounts. They're commonly classified as phytoestrogens, or plant estrogens, but they differ from the hormone estrogen. Clinically, that's how they affect tissues, and at the cellular level, how they bind and activate estrogen receptors. Those of us in this field have tried very hard to educate folks about isoflavones being very different from the hormone estrogen. But many times we've been very unsuccessful at doing that, and that's why I was so pleased to see this paper published just a few weeks ago. It was a meta analysis of randomized control trials, and the authors concluded that despite their classification as phytoestrogens, the results of this analysis provide a strong rationale for not assuming that soy isoflavones will exert health effects similar to the hormone estrogen. So for this analysis, the authors looked at the effects of isoflavones on four endpoints that are affected by the hormone estrogen, endometrial thickness, vaginal maturation index, FSH levels and estrogen levels, isoflavones were without effect on any of those endpoints. Now that's not to suggest that isoflavones can't have other effects and other endpoints or tissues that weren't examined and in other subpopulations that study only looked at post menopausal women. Isoplanes have been hypothesized to reduce risk of breast and prostate cancer, improve the condition of the skin, improve the health of the arteries by looking at endothelial function, alleviate hot flashes in menopausal women and to improve memory in older folks. Now, due to time constraints, I'll just talk about breast cancer and skin health. As you know, breast cancer rates differ markedly throughout the world or high in North America, Australia and Europe, low in Africa and in Asia. And if we take a more granular look at the data, and these are incidents data for 1990 we see the rate in North America of breast cancer is about three times higher than the Japanese rate, in about same seven times higher than the Chinese rate. But these kind of ecological comparisons are useful for generating hypotheses, but not for drawing any kind of meaningful conclusions. You can see rates in Central America and middle Africa are very low. Not a lot of soy is consumed in those regions. And the question isn't whether, when, whether Japanese has a lower Japan, excuse me, has a lower rate of breast cancer than the US. The question is, Do women in Japan who regularly consume soy have a lower rate of breast cancer than women in Japan who infrequently consume soy? And the results of this meta analysis of observational studies, epidemiologic studies, suggest that is, in fact, the case. The authors concluded that soy acid flavones are helpful in reducing risk of breast cancer. Now my opinion, and one that I've held for 30 years, is that for soy to maximally reduce breast cancer risks that needs to be consumed early in life, that's during childhood and or adolescence. There's observational data in support of this hypothesis, animal data and several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the chemo preventive effects of isoflavones when consumed early in life. I'm not ruling out the possibility that adult intake reduces breast cancer risk, but I'm more impressed with the hypothesis that early intake reduces risk.

Speaker 3  29:13
Now, despite the evidence indicating that soy reduces risk of developing breast cancer, one of the big controversies in this field, and it's been a controversy for 20 years, is whether soy is actually safe for breast cancer survivors, that the soy worsen the outcome of women with breast cancer. And you can see here from a survey that was conducted earlier this year, breast cancer is the number one concern raised by clients of dietitians and in fact, and this is surprising, it's only a two year comparison, but there were more concerns Raised in 2023 than in 2022 now from a conceptual basis, it's easy to understand why there would be a concern. Two thirds of breast tumors are estrogen sensitive. These are, as we know, tumors whose growth is stimulated by the hormone estrogen. Isoflavones are classified by phytoestrogens, but as I've highlighted, isoflavones are different from the hormone estrogen. From an experimental standpoint, almost all of the concern was based on research in a thymic ovariectomized mice. These are animals whose immune system has been inactivated so the cancer cells can be implanted into the animals and the ovaries have been removed to stop estrogen production so they can serve as a model for post menopausal women. So is soy safe for breast cancer survivors? Well, I want to acknowledge that we don't have definitive data to resolve or address this controversy, because no randomized trial has been conducted in which half of the breast cancer patients enrolled were given soy and half a control food, control protein, and then rates of recurrence and breast cancer specific mortality were looked at After a multi year period. So we don't have definitive data, and we don't have a definitive randomized control trial, but we do have lots of data, so we have and what I'm going to be presenting is the epidemiologic data, and specifically the prospect of cohort studies, because these are the studies that carry the most weight within the epidemiologic community, and then, of course, the randomized control trials. So I mentioned, we don't have a definitive RCT to address this controversy, but we do have quite a few trials that evaluated the effects of soy and isoflavones and markers of breast cancer risk. So for example, of breast tissue density, which you measure using a mammogram, is a marker of breast cancer risk, because breasts that are more dense are more likely to develop tumors, and even more importantly, a better marker is cell proliferation. Now this is a more invasive procedure. You have to take a biopsy of the breast, but cells that replicate more quickly have less time to repair DNA damage. And our cells, our DNA, is always being damaged. We have repair mechanisms in place, but if they're replicating more quickly, you have less time to repair that damage. So the cells are more likely to be transformed than the cancer cells. So the breast cancer drugs tamoxifen and the aroma tapes inhibitor, later is all decreased tissue density and breast cell proliferation, and obviously they're using the management of breast cancer. Conversely, combined hormone therapy, that's estrogen plus in progestin, increases breast tissue density and breast cell proliferation within just 12 weeks, breast cell proliferation increases four to 10 fold in response to conventional hormone therapy, and we know that conventional hormone therapy increases breast cancer risk now, in contrast to the beneficial effects of the breast cancer drugs and the harmful effects of combined hormone therapy. The Clinical studies show, without any inconsistency, that neither soy or isoflavones, if given its supplement form, affect breast tissue density 14 studies or breast cell proliferation.

Unknown Speaker  33:43
Slide, pardon,

Unknown Speaker  33:44
can you

Speaker 4  33:45
go into previous slide? It said estrogen? Did it make a differentiation between what form of estrogen was given?

Speaker 3  33:54
I think it was estradiol. But in my opinion, and I'm not an expert here, it's actually, in my opinion, it's the progesterone that increases cell proliferation and increases breast cancer risk. Because if you look at the

Speaker 4  34:09
is not progesterone here, this is medjug. See progesterone? Yes. Okay, there's a difference, yeah, yes. And

Speaker 3  34:16
because if you look at the Women's Health Initiative trials, estrogen alone didn't I know there were difference between the women. You know, one group was hysterectomy. I mean, was without a uterus, but it looks like it's the progestin component that causes the problem. Yeah,

Speaker 4  34:35
synthetic progestin and synthetic estrogens.

Speaker 3  34:39
Okay, yeah, I'll defer to your expertise, gladly. So in contrast to the harmful effects of hormone therapy and beneficial effects of drugs, soy and isoflavones are without effect on these markers. So that's an I think it's a very strong argument for the safety of soy. And these studies involved healthy women, women at increased risk of breast cancer, and women with breast cancer. And I want to point out that if you look at the right column and the yellow highlight highlighted rose ourselves, excuse me, you can see that the ISO flavor and intake in these studies was huge. 100, 120 103 103 235 milligrams per day. And and average intake in Japan is 30 to 50 milligrams per day. So this is at the highest. Very few individuals in Japan or China, such as Shanghai would consume even 100 milligrams, nobody is consuming more than 100 and you're still seeing isoflavones without or without any harmful effect. Now, the clinical data are supportive of safety, but the observational data are suggestive of benefit. So really the view on soy and breast cancer started to do a 180 in 2009 with the publication of the Shanghai breast cancer survival study, they found soy food consumption was significantly associated with decreased risk of death and recurrence in women with breast cancer. This is post diagnosis soy intake in Shanghai. So it was a huge study, 5000 women with breast cancer. Diet was assessed four times during the four year follow up period, and on average, and during that follow up period, there were 444, deaths, 534 recurrences, or breast cancer related deaths, then a meta analysis published last year of prospective observational studies found soy isoflavones were associated with the 26% reduced risk of recurrence, particularly among postmenopausal and ER positive survivors, and it's the post menopausal women and ear positive breast cancer patient who, in theory, are most susceptible to any estrogen like effects of isoflavones. So given the clinical and especially the observational data, the American Cancer Society concluded in 2022 post diagnosis, soy isoflavone intake associated with a lower risk of recurrence. And then the American Institute for Cancer Research identifies soy foods as one of five factors that may reduce the mortality of breast cancer patients, the other ones being fiber, physical activity, healthy eating overall, and a healthy BMI. So I think it's fair to say in many respects, we've gone from a situation in the 1990s where the rodent research suggested that soy post diagnosis, soy intake could be harmful to breast cancer survivors to the situation today where the clinical data are supportive of safety and the observational data are suggestive of benefit, skin wrinkling, natural phenomenon due to a variety of environmental genetic and hormonal influences. There have actually been 10 randomized control trials to look at the effects of isoflavones on skin health. But really, with the exception of this, maybe two studies, but certainly with the exception of the study I'm going to show next, all of those trials had pretty significant design limitations or weaknesses? Maybe the isoflavones were combined with other bioactives, a lack of a true control group, some type of weakness that really prevents any kind of definitive conclusion from being made. But I do want to show you this one that was published last year, the author found soy protein containing isoflavones improved skin photo aging, including wrinkles and dispigmentation and increased skin hydration. So this was a six month intervention, fairly long. I'd like to see a little bit longer, maybe a year. Post menopausal women, lighter skin types, fits Patrick skin types, one through three. Parallel design, 30 grams per day of soy protein consumed by one group the other group consumed 30 grams per day of casein, the main protein in milk. Cows milk looked at wrinkle depth, pigment intensity and hydration. So on the last left we see in the green bars, there was a six and a half percent decrease in wrinkle severity in the soy group, no change in the casing group. The difference between the two was highly statistically significant for pigment intensity. It's really referring to the blotchiness of the skin. Two and a half percent decrease in the soy group, no decrease in the casein group. The difference between the two groups was significant for hydration. There was a significant increase in the left and right facial cheek in the isoflavone group when compared to baseline, and no change in the casein group. So I'll just I want to point out that 30 grams of soy protein is a fair amount of protein. Average protein. Soy protein intake in Japan is maybe nine grams per day, but 50 milligrams of ISO flavors is the amount provided by two servings of traditional Asian soy foods. So that could be two cups of soy milk, or really 78 ounce seven or eight ounces of tofu. So a fairly, relatively easy amount to incorporate into the diet. Another controversy and one that I've been personally and professionally interested in for a long time is this notion that soy may feminize men I eat so in a regular basis. So I have a particular interest in this claim, if to address this feminine feminization effect, and I can go into the background of how this concern arose, maybe during the question period, if there's interest, I want to look at the effect of soy and hormone levels, of course, testosterone, but also estrogen, because often not appreciate that older men actually make more estrogen than older women do. So I think it's important to look at both hormones. So here we have a random, excuse me, a meta analysis of 41 randomized control trials, no effects or soy or ISO flavors on total testosterone, about 1700 men free testosterone, biologically active form estradiol or estrone. Three studies have looked at the effects of clinical studies looked at the effects of soy or isoflavones on sperm or semen parameters in healthy men. Now that last one at the bottom was just described in the proceedings that wasn't published as a separate manuscript, but none of these intervention studies found any effect on sperm or semen parameters. But interestingly, in 2006 there was a case report so single individual of a man, a couple, that entered a fertility clinic, it was determined that the man had oligospermia, low sperm count. He was given 80 milligrams of isoflavones per day for three months, and his sperm count normalized, and the couple was able to have a child, I think very much of it. It was just one case report in 2006 now, coincidentally, earlier this year, another case report was published, same exact situation, and also the dose of isoflavones, 80 milligrams per day, was given To the man.

Bill Clearfield  43:20
Sorry, Mark, I was letting somebody in and I muted you. Okay, sorry about that.

Speaker 3  43:25
We okay. Now, yeah, good, good, okay. So anyway, I'm just saying that the second case report was published in just earlier this year. 80 milligrams of isoflavones also normalized sperm count in the man with low oligospermia. I don't know what to make of these data. I think they're pretty intrigued, intriguing, but it's just two individuals reporting so far.

Speaker 3  43:59
So a thyroid function. This is an area that's been researched for almost 100 years. First study in animals was published in 1933 so I'll just go right to this meta analysis. The only one conducted published in 2019 18 randomized control trials, no significant effects of soy isoflavones on t4, or t3, levels in 2017 the US Food and Drug Administration can conducted a complete safety review of soy they evaluated all the science relevant scientific literature. They also examined the 1300 comments that were submitted by the public. Many of those were quite negative. They concluded that soy protein is safe. They rejected all safety concerns, with the exception of soy protein allergy. And it's not surprising that soy foods cause allergic reactions in some individuals, because 200 foods have been shown to cause allergic reactions. But soy in the United States, soy is one of the big nine. These are the nine foods that are thought to be responsible for 90% of food allergic reactions among Americans, but the prevalence of allergy for each of these big nine differs strike quite dramatically, and soy has the lowest prevalence, except for Sesame, which was added two years ago. Estimated prevalence based on surveys in US and Canada, there's about three adults out of every 1000 clinical evidence suggests that 70% of children outgrow their sale soy allergy by age 10, although you can actually develop the soy allergy during adulthood and highly refined soybean oil is not allergenic because there's not enough soy protein in highly refined soybean oil to elicit an allergic reaction. And I think it's worth pointing out that the FAO did not include soybeans on their list in their global global priority allergen list because of its low global prevalence, low allergenic potency and low severity of symptoms, the global priority, priority allergen list are cereals, gluten, shellfish, egg, fish, milk, peanuts, sesame and tree nuts. I don't know if you want to stop for a moment to take a question or I'm fine going on whatever you want to do.

Speaker 5  46:45
Yeah, I have a question. How do we know? And I put this in the chat, how do we know that soybeans are GMO free, no, free from glyphosate? Are Japanese soybeans healthier than us? Soybeans? Are they? What are they healthier safer than us? Soybeans? Are you going to talk about miso? And then, you know, we have soy cheese, you know, different types of products. And you know, just a good place to start. Yeah, let

Speaker 3  47:22
me, I think three questions. Let me do those at the end, because I do talk a little bit about genetic modification, and I think it'd be more appropriate talk about miso, whatever you want to talk about. Okay, okay, thank you. So if there's nothing else, I'll just go on talk about Ultra processed foods. This is, gosh, probably the hottest topic in the field of nutrition, tons of articles written in the for the public as well as the scientific literature. In fact, there's about 600 more than 600 this year. I think we're up to about 650 so far, about 600 articles on ultra processed foods are indexed in PubMed annually. Now that's a four fold increase since 2019 you see lots and lots of stuff online about the dangers of ultra processed foods, and some politicians are now talking about Ultra processed foods, and you see a lot of articles podcasts helping people learn how to avoid or eliminate Ultra processed foods from their diet. And I think this information is having an impact. Because of a survey published just a couple of months ago, 41% of the US adults that responded indicated that they're trying to avoid or eliminate completely Ultra processed food from their diet. That's going to be pretty darn difficult to do, probably impossible, because we get 57% of our caloric intake from ultra processed foods, and 73% of all foods in the marketplace in this country are thought to be ultra processed Well, why the concern? It's because the epidemiologic literature consistently shows that ultra processed food intake is associated with a wide range of adverse health outcomes. I mean everything from certain cancers, dementia, obesity, frailty, frailty, on and on and on, IBS, just about everything you can think of is associated with Ultra processed food intake. This slide just lists six umbrella reviews of meta analysis published just this year. It's really quite phenomenal. So one question you might be thinking, why am I talking about Ultra processed foods? And I'm talking about Ultra processed foods because the entire new generation of plant based meat alternatives. These are plant based meat alternatives made using a concentrated source of protein, whether it's soy pea or wheat, are classified as Ultra processed foods. 90% of all plant milks are classified as Ultra processed foods, including soy milk made from whole soybean so what are ultra processed foods? Well, my personal opinion is that nowadays, when people mention Ultra processed foods, it's really just a generic term for junk foods. I'll explain the the coinage of the of the term Ultra processed foods, but I think people using them now just to refer to unhealthy foods. In fact, if you do a Google search using the term Ultra processed foods, junk foods and processed foods, this image comes up on all three foods. But Ultra the term Ultra processed food is actually coined by Brazilian researchers in 2009 when they created the Nova food classification system. And there are a lot of nutrient profiling models of food classification systems used around the world. Nutri score, Health Star Rating. Food compass is a new addition created by Tufts University, but Nova is unique because it classifies all foods into one of four categories based entirely on the extent to which that food has been processed. So you have the group one foods which are foods in their natural state, easy to understand, fruits, vegetables, nuts, grain legumes, meat, milk, the processed culinary ingredients, group two, the oils, fats, butter, vinegar, sugar and salt. And processed foods are often a combination of group one and group two foods, and then the ultra processed foods, which is what we really care about for the purposes of this discussion. And one way to think about Ultra processed foods is that they're made with non home ingredients. So if you couldn't make that ingredient on your own, or you really couldn't buy it, it's going to be an ultra processed food. So any flavoring, artificial sweetener, anything that really you could make on your own makes that food Ultra processed. If it contains it, the foods are often really high in fat, sugar and salt, but that's not a prerequisite for classification as an ultra processed food, because it's based on processing now, I have a very low opinion of this classification system, and this slide is an one example of why I do because if you take fruit and mix it to make a smoothie with cow's milk, those two foods are group one food, you and you end up with a group one food which is unprocessed or a minimally processed food. However, if you add a concentrated source of protein to it, you end up with an ultra processed food. And I think most nutritionists would prefer that you add protein to your smoothie than not. And yet that would become an ultra processed food. So to me, this makes no sense. Plain yogurt is a group one food foods to be encouraged in the diet. Flavored yogurt becomes an ultra processed food. And If a picture is worth 1000 words, and maybe this next slide is worth 4000 because regardless of what you think about tofu, soy milk or soy burgers, they are different from Twinkies nutritionally. And yet, the soy products are classified as Ultra processed foods, which puts them in the same category as Twinkies. And to me, that doesn't make any sense, and we have a really good recent clinical example of the weakness, weaknesses of the Nova food classification system. So this is a meta analysis of randomized control trials comparing the health effects of soy milk group four food with cow's milk group one food. So again, 17 trials in this meta analysis, RCTs. Medium duration was four weeks, a relatively short term. The investigators looked at 19 intermediate outcomes, their cardiomedictable health, mostly lipids, glucose, blood pressure. Average intake of the milks was about 500 ml. And just some very simple presentation in comparison to cow's milk, soy milk lowered LDL, cholesterol, 6% H it increased HDL 4% modest amount, but it was significant. Decreased blood pressure, eight millimeters, which is huge. I have some concerns about the likely about about that finding, but that's what they found. Diastolic was decreased by five millimeters, significant. And CRP and general marker of inflammation was decreased by about 22% also significant. So I think Nova paints with a very, very broad brush, and I think it is insufficiently nuanced to serve as a consumer guide for food purchasing decisions. Another huge controversy is seed oils. I suspect all of you are familiar with this controversy, and it's interesting because it's pretty much just internet based normally, you know, like for the breast cancer, even feminization, there's at least data in the scientific literature to make the case that so I could worsen the prognosis of breast cancer patients, or that soy may feminize men could be animal studies could be just low quality studies, seed oils. It's difficult to point to any significant body of literature to justify this kind of concern. Again, you see a lot of scary articles about seed oils. Go online podcast interviews harmful effects of seed oils. You could just have many, many slides talking about the dangers of seed oil. So seed oils are oils produced from seeds, as opposed to fruits, and they are, um, the often referred to as The Hateful Eight, canola, corn, cotton seed, soy, sunflower, safflower, grape seed and rice bran. And there's a small, but incredibly vocal, and I would say, growing anti seed oil movement. So why the hate for seed oils?

Speaker 3  56:59
I think this slide lists the main concerns raised about these oils by the folks that think they are harmful, that they're a modern addition to the diet, that they're highly processed, that they have a high ratio of omega six to omega three fatty acids, that linoleic acid causes inflammation and that linoleic acid causes oxidative stress. So just for the sake of argument, owls readily acknowledge that these oils are a modern addition to the diet. They really only start began to make a contribution to the diet in the United States in the 1960s with the emergence of soybean oil, and although it's a subjective sort of evaluation, I would say it takes a fair amount of processing to go from the seed to the oil that you would purchase at the grocery store. What about this notion that they have a high ratio of omega six to omega three fatty acids? Well, just as a refresher reminder of linoleic acid, essential fatty acid is a is an Omega six fatty acid because the first carbon, carbon double bond occurs at carbon six from the methyl end. 90% of the polyunsaturated fat in our diet is in the form of linoleic acid, and then alpha linolenic acid is an omega three fatty acid because the first double bond occurs at carbon three from the methylene. This is also an essential of fatty acid, and alpha linolenic acid accounts for the vast majority of omega three fatty acids in our diet. And it's absolutely the case. I'm not showing the ratio here. But these seed oils, with only really one major exception, are very high in linoleic acid. For six out of the eight, more than 50% more than 50% of their fat is comprised of linoleic acid. Canola oil is really an exception here. So you may wonder why this that's vilified. Well, it's higher in linoleic acid than palm oil and olive oil, two oils that the anti seed oil folks would prefer that you consume over any of the seed oils. So these oils do have a high ratio of omega six to omega three fatty acid. But I consider that ratio to be completely irrelevant. When I was going to school, it was the consensus that you wanted to have a relatively low ratio of omega six to Omega three, and it was thought that perhaps Paleolithic man consumed the diet that was maybe two to one. Some people were even recommending a one to one ratio. Our ratio was 10 to one right now. But here's just a partial list of organizations that have concluded that the Omega six to Omega three ratio is either uninformative, that is, it's not a metric of diet quality, or make no statement about its utility for that reason, because it's not a good metric of diet quality. So I think this is completely irrelevant. What about the notion that linoleic acid causes inflammation? That concern has been refuted clinically time and time again. Here we have the result of meta analysis of randomized control control trials published first in 2012 in 2017 and then 2021 show that randomized control trials show that linoleic acid does not affect markers of inflammation, just really quickly. I don't have a slide to show this, but it it. The concern was that linoleic acid would be converted in your body to accurate arachidonic acid, which is another mega six fatty acid. And from arachidonic acid, you would produce metabolites that cause inflammation. We now know that linoleic acid doesn't really affect tissue or blood levels of arachidonic acid, and also some of the metabolites of arachidonic acid have anti inflammatory properties. And then finally, what about the notion that linoleic acid causes oxidative stress? Well, in one sense, there's some truth to this concern, because the double bonds are susceptible to oxidation, so that's why you need to store the seed oils in a dark loop, a dark location, away from light, away from heat, and keep the lid tightly, close and by amounts likely to be consumed within months. And sometimes it concerns me when I go to the big box stores and I see people buying huge amounts of vegetable oil or seed oils, if they're not doing it for using those for a retail establishment, those oils are probably going to be kept for a really long time if it's for home use that that could raise some concerns. But as Martha bury stated in a podcast a couple of years ago, we are not a bottle of vegetable oil, meaning that the human body is equipped with a variety of antioxidants, both enzymatic and non enzymatic mechanisms, to counter the effect of oxidants. And here's just a review from 2019 in which the author concluded there's no evidence that higher intake of linoleic acid increased lipid peroxidation or increased LDL oxidation in vivo. Now I do want to make it clear that there's a lot more data, clinical data, showing that linoleic acid and the seed oils do not increase inflammation. I showed those three meta analysis in comparison to the amount of work that has looked at the effects of linoleic acid on markers of oxidative stress. What does exist is pretty supportive of safety and not having oxidative effects. But I think we should, we need some more data. So I think this argument against heat oils does not really hold water. How much linoleic acid should we consume? Well, you know that, depending on who you talk to, that's going to estimates or recommendations are going to vary quite dramatically. Currently, the American Heart Association recommends consuming five to 10% of calories in the form of linoleic acid. How much does the US consume? Here we have some data from NHANES over almost 20 year period, three different time periods, about 5000 individuals in each survey. So first you see that we get about 11 to 12% of our calories from saturated fat, the recommendation is to consume no more than 10% of your calories from saturated fat. So as a nation, the US has never met that recommendation. We get about seven and a half 8% of our polyunsaturated fat from of our calorie from polyunsaturated fat. And again, 90% of the PUFA is linoleic acid. So we're actually right in the middle of the range recommended by the American Heart Association. You know, in the end, you can hypothesize, speculate about what effect linoleic acid has and seed oils have on intermediary markers you can look at, you know, CRP for inflammation and LDL oxidation or MDA for oxidative impact on oxidative stress. But in the end, what really matters is what impact consuming linoleic acid and seed oils have on clinically relevant incomes, outcomes achieving so I'll just turn to this huge review that was published on behalf of the Nordic nutrition recommendations as published earlier this year. The authors conducted two systematic reviews of their own. They examined 21 systematic reviews and 70 meta analysis and biomarker papers, and they found partial replacement of saturated fat with Omega six, polyunsaturated fat improves blood lipids, decreases, CVD risk improves, glucose insulin homeostasis may decrease overall mortality Both Omega six and Omega three, PUFA may be associated with lower risk of type two diabetes. And biomarkers of omega six PUFA are associated with lower cancer mortality. And if you want one good sort of reference for information on linoleic acid and seed oils, I would recommend this paper. It's open access, so anybody can download it without cost. And then finally, just a word about genetic modification. This is not an area that I'm well versed on. Genetically modified or engineered crops have been grown in 24 countries. They've been available since the 1990s genetically modified foods are evaluated in this country by the USDA Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency in 2020 and I suspect the figures are even higher now, 94% of all soybeans were genetically modified. 96% of all cotton was genetically modified, and 92% of all corn.

Speaker 3  1:06:52
You can see that soybeans were approved. Genetically Modified soybeans were approved in 1996 and and the genetically modified soybeans have an enzyme that is not sensitive to the inhibitory effects of glyphosate. Glyphosate on the enzyme that is responsible for synthesizing the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan. So if you can't make those amino acids, the plant or the weed is going to die. The soybeans don't die because they have another enzyme implanted in them that is not susceptible to glyphosate, and I'll just cite the current position of the Environmental Protection Agency or underlying scientific findings regarding glyphosate, including the finding that glyce glyphosate is not likely to be carcinogenic to humans, remain the same so they consider genetically genetically modified soybeans to be safe. Obviously, there is a controversy about glyphosate, but the agencies in this country consider it to be safe. From my perspective, I can say with quite a bit of certainty that the nutrient composition of genetically modified soybeans is essentially identical or similar to non genetically modified soybeans, and for those of you who have concerns About either glyphosate or genetic modification for beans for other reasons, I'll say that in the United States, nearly all of the tofu and soy milk comes from non genetically modified soybeans. So there are plenty of options if you are concerned about genetically modified beans. And just as a last slide is a general intake recommendation. I for adults, I would say about two servings per day that's going to provide about 50 milligrams of isoflavones. In the epidemiologic studies and clinical studies that show benefits of soy consumption, two servings 50 milligrams of isoflavones is generally it meets the efficacious threshold. It's also going to provide anywhere from 15 to 25 grams of soy protein. I would say for an upper limit, I wouldn't want to go more than four servings per day, because, not because there's evidence that beyond that amount is harmful, because there are clinical studies that have gone for long periods of time that have fed subjects larger amounts than four servings without showing harm. It's just that if you're consuming more than four servings per day, first of all, means that you're putting way too much emphasis on one food. And second, if you're consuming four servings per day, you're probably going to be getting, you know, 30 or 40 grams of protein per day from soy. And I think your nutrients come from a variety of different sources. You don't want 50% of your protein coming from from one source. Yeah, so thank you very much for your attention.

Benoit Tano  1:10:35
Yeah, I think this is a nice presentation, but there's a lot of compounding factors that does not allow us to make sense of everything. And one of the confounding factors, for me is that we're talking about the isolate, which is the ISO flevid, and also the soy protein that people are consuming. So for instance, if somebody is tofu, it will contain some ISO flavor, but it may not contain much. It may be just of a soy protein that has been genetically modified by, say, glyphosate. How can we compare those two ISO flavor versus the soy protein itself that people are consuming, and also compare that with the soy soy oils, and that is a highly processed I mean, how can we disentangle all that? It's

Speaker 3  1:11:40
actually easy. So soy oil, just as is fatty acids, you know, some vitamin E, vitamin K, but it doesn't contain any protein, doesn't contain any ISO flavors. So if you're looking for to alleviate hot flashes, you're not going to want to consume soy oil. So that that's pretty I think that's pretty clear cut. The absorption of ISO flavors from food is similar to the absorption of isoflavones from from supplements and from soy protein. So in most of the clinical trials, this supplements have been used the isoflavone supplements and pill form or the powder in the form of soy protein that contains isoflavones have been used because, first of all, ideally, you want to blind the subjects. And of course, you can give an isoflavone pill and a placebo pill. They're not going to know in which group they are. You can give a soy protein powder versus a casein powder, they're not going to know what group they're in. If you give them tofu, it's going to be hard to come up with an appropriate control that would still keep the subjects blinded. Also, it's harder to standardize tofu versus a pill or the powder. And then finally, if you're looking at an intervention study in the United States or in outside of Asia, compliance becomes an issue. If you're asking folks to consume two servings of tofu every day for six months, I think over time, compliance is going to be a big issue. So I think it's fairly clear cut now, when you consume tofu, you're getting omega three fatty acids, and you're getting the protein when you consume the isoflavones. You're in supplement form. You're just getting the isoflavones. So for cholesterol reduction, the health claim is for 25 grams of protein, it's the protein that lowers cholesterol. I don't think isoflavones have any effect on cholesterol when you consume the food. If you're consuming enoma, you might get some resistant starch, some fiber, isoflavone, some protein, you know, omega three fatty acids, and also, hopefully you're displacing less healthy foods from the diet. So if you there's no question in my mind that the first approach to get soy into your diet should be from soy foods. Now, if you are a post menopausal women, and you're having 10 hot flashes per day, and for whatever reason, you don't want to take hormone therapy, and you want to try some alternative therapy, and you think isoflavones may work, but you don't want to consume two cups of soy milk per day. Then sure you can maybe take two two pills, or a pill and one cup of soy milk.

Benoit Tano  1:14:37
Yeah. Okay, so one of the friends from the Shanghai study, I suppose they use the soy from Asia. They're not using the soil from the United States. As you said, probably 94% of the soy grown in this country is a GMO genetically modified, even though the EPA is saying that it doesn't. The glyphosate has no effect on the soy protein itself. I doubt that's a case, because they haven't done all the studies at the molecular level, when we have all the pesticides and herbicides and fungicides and everything else that we're putting in this protein that can affect the human body. Now, many people who talk about gynecomastia in men by consuming soy protein or breast cancer by consuming soy protein, they're alluding to these contaminations and everything else that is driving those conditions. Not

Speaker 3  1:15:40
Can I stop you right there, just so I don't forget. I don't mean to be rude, but so gynecomastia there, there were the the concern about soy feminizing men, right? Actually was, was caused primarily, or based primarily on a 2008 case report where an individual consuming soy develop feminizing effects, including gynecomastia. And since 2008 there have been two other case reports showing feminizing effects in each case. Well, the first two cases, the men were consuming 360 milligrams per day of ISO flavors. In one case, it was a 60 year old man who was consuming 12 cups of soy milk per day. In the second case, there was a 19 year old vegan who was consuming about 20 servings of soy per day. So 360 milligrams of ISO flavors is about nine times higher than than average intake is among men in Japan consuming a traditional diet. Two clinical trials, long term clinical trials, have actually looked at the impact of soy on breast tissue. Seen absolutely no, no effects. For the Shanghai study, they were that's a free living population. They were consuming primarily tofu, secondary soy milk. That's how they received their isoflavones. I think that if soy, in fact, improves the prognosis of breast cancer patients. It's due to an ISO flavor effect, because you see some things happening with when you just use the individual ISO flavors. I won't debate you on, on obviously you think that the herbicide glyphosate is is harmful. I'm not going to, I'm not going to debate you on, on that topic, I just don't have the background to do that. The clinical studies in this country that have used soy protein isolate are come from genetically modified soybeans. So they take the bean, they get rid of the fiber, carbohydrate and fat, leaving you with the protein. And there have been probably three or 400 clinical studies that have intervened with soy protein isolate made with made from genetically modified soybeans. And those I can say those studies are not showing any harmful effects. Some of them have gone out for two and three years in duration, not longer than that. That's a pretty, fairly long time for a nutrition study.

Benoit Tano  1:18:26
Well, thank you. Fabien said, I will let other people enter in.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:34
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:37
in the chat, there is, you did answer the question about miso products? Correct? Mark, no,

Speaker 3  1:18:49
I didn't. I would interested in knowing it's a fermented product. There are some in the epidemiologic studies, miso, especially from Japan, primarily where it's a popular food. So in Japan, they get about half of their soy from tofu and half from natto and miso, two fermented products in the not only have some interesting advantages benefits over the other soy foods. Miso doesn't show up as well in the observational studies in terms of reducing cancer risk. Maybe benefits for benefits for heart disease. So, um, the ISO flavors are still present. You hydrolyze the fermentation results. So let me back up. The isoflavones are present in Present, present in soybeans, in un fermented soy foods, in glyce in with it, with a glucose molecule attached. So they're glycosides. In order to absorb these isoflavone from soy foods and soybeans unfermented soy foods, you have to hydrolyze the glucose molecule, pretty easy to do in fermented foods to varying degrees, the isoflavones are without the sugar, because fermentation hydrolyzes the sugar Off, off that may cause the isoflavones to be more quickly absorbed. And there is a school of thought that says, if you can absorb the isoflavones faster, even if total absorption is not increased because they're absorbed more quickly, C max levels in your blood may be increased, and that may be an advantage, but I think the key to me is to identify a couple soy foods. If you're interested in getting isoflavones or protein, just identify a couple of soy foods that you like, and that's how you can incorporate so into your diet. Miso tends to be really high in sodium, so that is additional consideration, as do a lot of the plant burgers, by the way,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:55
are us soy beans sprayed with glyphosate? Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:20:58
yeah, you bet. Well, you know, 94 or 5% probably are now. Bear in mind that almost all of the soybeans are used for animal feed, so 90 plus percent of the animals of the soybeans grown in the US, there's like 550,000 farmers, soybean farmers in the US, where the number two producer. Brazil's number one, Argentina, I think might be three, and then perhaps China. So in the US, probably 95% of all soybeans are genetically modified. They are sprayed with that herbicide, okay, but again, those are used mostly for animal feed,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:41
alright, so Doctor Stein is where are soy beans grown in the US Midwest,

Speaker 3  1:21:47
the big the big ones are Indiana, Ohio, Illinois, Iowa, and because different varieties of soybeans have been grown. Have been developed. You can you can grow them in North Dakota, you can grow them in Arkansas, so a wide range, but the Midwest is the big area,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:14
okay, all right, the idea that heart disease and cancers and illnesses will increase since the use of seed oils. Is that? Is that sort of a myth, or is that? Is that a fact? That's

Speaker 3  1:22:34
a fact. It's also cancers increase with the number of television stations, the number of podcasts. I mean, you know that kind of correlation you can like the growth in organic food is correlates with the rates of autism. I mean, those kind of correlations are interesting, and sometimes they can form the basis for a hypothesis, and then you look at more robust kinds of experimental design. So So you what you want to look at is because that's group data. It's not talking about what any individual is doing. So you look at the prospect of studies that are now going on for decades, and you look to see Do people in those countries who consume higher amounts of seed oils have more or less cancer risk, heart disease risk, diabetes, and when you look at they have lower risk of those chronic diseases.

Benoit Tano  1:23:31
Have a quick question. So the acid flavors you said are not estrogen Well, no, no, no. Do they use estrogen receptors? Though,

Speaker 3  1:23:41
yes, yes. So I didn't say they were not estrogens. I say they're different from the hormone estrogen so they bind to and they bind to estrogen receptors. They preferentially bind to estrogen receptor beta, which is thought to have an anti proliferative effect when activated, whereas estrogen result binding or activation of estrogen receptor Alpha has a proliferative effect. So we've known about estrogen receptor alpha for decades. Estrogen receptor beta was 1996 and then two years later, was shown that isoflavones prefer that hormone versus estrogen receptor alpha, but I would say that it's best to look at the clinical data rather than speculating about what isoflavones will do based on understanding of their their molecular action. So one of the neat things that was, you know, it was brought up at the beginning that isoflavones are seen as endocrine disruptors. So I had co authored a paper with nine other authors that was, I think it was 30,000 words, 700 references, and we looked at this whether soy or isoflavones warranted classification as an endocrine disruptor. We included. They they didn't. But one of the advantages is that if you're looking at like BPA, this is in plastic as an endocrine disruptor, you can't actually feed BPA to humans. So you so you know, for for tox studies, you're going to use animals, maybe you can look up some epi data, but there are hundreds of clinical studies in which groups of individuals have been fed or consumed soy protein containing isoflavones, or in some cases, soy Foods and isoflavone pills. So we have a wealth of data upon which to evaluate whether these isoflavones have harmful effects, whether they have estrogen like effects. And so one of the early theories when I first entered the field was that they would act like anti estrogens, because they would bind to the receptor and block the more potent estrogen from binding. So that would be useful if you were a pre menopausal women, and then they would function as estrogens in if you were a post menopausal women. Well, you can count on one finger the number of studies that show in vivo clinical studies that show anti estrogenic effects of isoflavones. I mean, so fortunately, we just have this wealth of clinical data upon which we can reach conclusions about their health effects.

Benoit Tano  1:26:31
It would be nice to know the meta analysis that have been done by country. Is it a meta analysis the studies are done in the US. Had done in Japan. Are they done in China, etc, and then compare to see what the findings are. I think that would be very enlightening.

Speaker 3  1:26:55
So, so they do that. They so. So, of course, most of the intervention studies have been conducted in the US and Europe. It's hard to do intervention studies in Japan because background soy intake is so high. So you know, if you wanted to look at the effects of consuming two servings of tofu, you would either have to find people that didn't consume soy as part of their usual diet, or ask them to stop consuming soy for the for the intervention period, which would maybe be difficult for some, some people to to do. But is your suggestion that you would want to look at intervention studies that used genetically modified beans versus non genetically modified? Yeah, the intervention studies, you know, I mean, a lot of the studies have used the isoflavone pills, so you're really just getting isoflavones in those in those pills, I don't think. And again, we have most of the isolates used around the world in introductory studies are going to come from genetically modified soybeans. And we, the group that I work for right now is is developing a database where we can look at where the studies were conducted. So if you want to email me privately, I can get you some of that information and look at how many studies were conducted in the US Canada, and where and how they were funded. Who funded the studies? So I can get you that.

Benoit Tano  1:28:28
Thank you so much. That's good. Thank you. Thank

Bill Clearfield  1:28:30
you. Dr Nario, you have some email questions.

Speaker 1  1:28:37
Yeah, so I guess there's, there's a question here. So where did the bad rap of soy really come from? Is it from being GMO based or the contamination of glyphosate?

Speaker 3  1:28:51
Neither one it was, it was animal studies. So, so most concerns, so I'm not just talking about soy, not seed oils you can trace. So I mentioned for feminization. It was a case report where a man developed gynecomastia and other symptoms of feminization in response to soy consumption. But it was 12 cups of soy milk per day. So, so and in some animal studies, there was a small drop in testosterone levels in the animal studies. But animals metabolize isoflavones differently, but you first do the animal studies before you get to human studies, generally speaking, for breast cancer, the first study showing that isoflavones stimulated the growth of existing mammary tumors, ER positive mammary tumors in mice was published in 1998 that laboratory then published a paper every two years, slightly tweaking that model, showing that isoflavones inhibited The efficacy of aromatase inhibitors, inhibited the efficacy of tamoxifen. So there's usually a basis for the concerns being raised. It wasn't for another decade that the observational studies studies showed that soy consumption benefited women with breast cancer, and then during that time, a lot of clinical studies were showing no adverse effects of soy on any on any outcomes for thyroid again, it was animal studies showing that soy inhibited or isoflavones inhibited the activity of thy of an enzyme required for the synthesis of thyroid hormones. So that was in animals, and beginning in 1996 or 2002 1002 but then you start doing a clinical studies, and you're not seeing any of these facts. So it's really animal studies

Unknown Speaker  1:30:50
that started the route, the bad reputation,

Speaker 3  1:30:53
a few case reports, and then also, as I'm sure you recognize this, because it's got to be true in the medical literature, just like the nutrition literature, but probably more so in nutrition, because our clinical studies are tend to be small in size, because compliance is an issue, the funding isn't available for for nutrition studies, like it is for ice for drug studies, so you have a bunch of small studies, and just by chance, you're going to get outliers. So you do a clinical study, you find some weird result, and maybe the next person tends to confirm that you have a hypothesis. And then you do studies that follow up and follow up and follow up, and then you see what the totality the evidence looks like, and it takes a long time to refute some concerns once they're in the minds of the public, we're still fighting that battle.

Speaker 1  1:31:47
So if you're pertaining to the fact that it's the amount of consumption of soy that will be bringing in the tiller's effects of it are the vegans and vegetarians now in danger of risking themselves for these bad effects of huge amounts of soy intake.

Speaker 3  1:32:07
Yeah, not even close. First of all, I'm a vegan. My wife's a vegan. She's a vegan. Rd and soy consumption is much, much less than you would you would imagine it's probably maybe 20 milligrams per day, which is, you know, not even close to the 100 milligrams, which is the upper limit that I would recommend, John.

Speaker 1  1:32:38
This is a question from the, I guess your slide about the muscle building potential of of soy versus animal meat, it's saying, it's asking that, should we eat more soy to match the capacity of animal meat protein? Or you're saying that that slide was head to head, one is to one.

Speaker 3  1:32:55
Yeah, it was. It was equal amounts of animal equal amounts of soy protein. But first of all, it's resistance exercise that's the key. Total protein plays a minor role, and protein type plays even a lesser role than that. And if you think about this, is a paper that I just read, which I thought was very thought provoking, if you're trying to see minor effects, like, is one type of protein more effective than another type of protein, and even if it is, the effect is going to be modest. You need a really large sample size to see a statistically significant difference. I don't think it's really worth being concerned about in terms of which protein you should consume, just make sure you get enough. But the point is, is that soy protein can serve, or soy foods can't serve as a source of protein for those who do want to, want to build muscle, there's studies showing it. There's a Chinese study, really beautiful study. They had individuals real quickly with sarcopenia, and they were consuming more than the RDA for protein, about one gram per kilogram body weight they were given. One consume. Continued to consume the habitual diet. One consumed a mix of Soy and Whey Protein, 16 grams. Another one consumed just way the other one consumed just soy. All three groups dramatically improved muscle mass and performance in these individuals. And then,

Speaker 1  1:34:31
think this is something also done by Dr sidomani, and I'm sure you've met him in in the integrative dermatological explosion where, where I met you guys. And he also vouches that plant proteins can be a head to head match up with animal proteins and muscle building. And this is, again, we're done with, I think, more of body builders that he had studied on so but yeah, I've heard of this literature before, and this is definitely something interesting. Another one is, I think it's pertaining to your slide. If it doesn't affect the testosterone levels for men, what accounts for the increase in sperm count that you just mentioned?

Speaker 3  1:35:11
Yeah, so excellent question, and all I can say is that the ice I don't actually know I got I'll have to look at this. I'll have to look at what happened to testosterone levels in those two case reports. But So I mentioned that the in the three clinical trials, there was no effect on sperm or semen parameters, but all three clinical trials involved healthy individuals, and these folks came into the clinic, you know, with low sperm count. Now I don't know if I mean, I'll ask you outside my area, if you if they had low test testosterone and you increased it, would that account for, possibly account for the increase in sperm concentration or count?

Speaker 1  1:36:00
That is possible, but, yeah, but spermatogenesis happens in the sertoli cells. And leak cells are the testosterone you

Bill Clearfield  1:36:08
need. You need to stimulate FSH in in the pituitary increase sperm count. So, okay, I'll look at that. Okay, so,

Speaker 3  1:36:17
you know, it's a case report, so I don't know how much work they did, but on the on the folks, but that's that's okay. The difference

Bill Clearfield  1:36:23
between luteinizing hormone, which increases total testosterone, and molecular stimulating hormone, which increases stimulates the sertoli cells to produce sperm. So,

Speaker 3  1:36:36
okay, thank you. Right,

Speaker 1  1:36:41
there's a part of your slide that there was an arrow between gene arrow, Dietz, arrow, Glaceon. What does that mean?

Speaker 3  1:36:51
It's, it's, it's a It connotes or denotes concentration. So Janice Dean is present. Geneste accounts for about 50% of the total isoflavone content. Dayzine, about 40% and then glycerine about 10% Now, interestingly, back in the 90s, when supplements first started to become popular and be used clinically, the first supplements that became available actually had very high amounts of glycerine, which is the ISO flavor that's present in only 10% of the soybean it's because of the way they made the supplement. And a lot of those studies showed that those supplements were ineffective. So I was involved with the meta analysis in 2012 that looked at the effects of isoflavones on hot flash alleviation. And when you divided the supplement into the kind that had the isoflavone profile in soybeans, hygienistine versus the ones that were low in genestein, it was only the high genestine supplement that were actually efficacious. So

Speaker 1  1:38:00
when was at the amount of ISO flavors, meaning gene has the most then going no, no.

Speaker 3  1:38:05
So if you take 40 milligrams, so if you take 50 milligrams of ISO flavor from soybeans, about 25 is going to be gene. And about, you know, 20 or so is going to be dazene, and five is going to be glycating. That's the normal ratio in soybeans. But there was a way to make a supplement mechanically that would end up giving you a whole bunch of glycating and very little gene that supplement was shown not to be very efficacious.

Speaker 1  1:38:38
Okay, I think that was more of a clarification than a question, because they were wondering what that sequence was okay. I think Go ahead, I

Bill Clearfield  1:38:47
have a have a question about genestein here in the chat, so maybe we can follow up on that. So can you comment on genestein as an anti cancer agent?

Speaker 3  1:38:58
Yeah, so I, I got into the soy field in 89 because I was working, I was working at the National Cancer Institute in the diet and cancer branch. And long story short is that some, some now colleagues of mine, presented some research showing that soybeans inhibited the develop of mammary cancer and rats. The head of the National Cancer Institute wrote the branch I was working and asked if we were doing anything with soy. The Secretary saw the saw the note, and she said, you eat tofu, why don't you do something? So that's how I entered my career. Started my career, and it was really the focus was on genestein, because they found that gene inhibited enzymes that are over expressed in cancer cells. So back in the 90s, there was a lot of interest in the anti cancer potential of gene independent of its effect interaction with estrogen receptors. They thought it was inhibiting tyrosine protein kinase and couple of other enzymes, but the concentration required to inhibit those enzymes in vitro could never be achieved by consuming supplements or soy foods. So I think, I think there was some unjustified excitement about soy and cancer prevention, but there's still a lot of interest in using gene as an anti chemo preventive agent, as as a drug where you can give much, much higher concentrations. Now I do. It's possible. I mentioned that ISO flavors. I think consuming ISO flavors early in life, when your child, adolescent reduces breast cancer risk, I think that's a genestine effect, and I think there's some proposed mechanisms. One is that it increases concentration of estrogen receptor beta. So I mean, there's a lot of hypotheses, but it's really, unfortunately, it's very difficult to show with confidence, diet, cancer relationships, because you could, because you know you have LDL, cholesterol and blood pressures, great markers of of heart disease risk and maybe bone mineral density for osteoporosis and bone health. You don't have sort of markers that are as good for looking at cancer. So it's hard to do intervention studies. You can't do a six year intervention study looking at cancer outcomes in 50,000 people, so you're relying on animal studies and epidemiologic studies. And as you know what epidemiologic studies, it's hard to control for confounding variables. So so it's a lot more more difficult, but I do, I do think, and have thought for 30 years that early soy intake reduces breast cancer

Benoit Tano  1:41:51
risk. Can I ask one quick question about the allergenicity of the soy? Now, has anybody done a lot of studies showing why soy is among the big nine allergenic food that we have today. What is poison this allergenicity of this soy?

Speaker 3  1:42:11
Yeah, I don't you know that's beyond me, but I will say my knowledge, there are multiple allergens in in in soy foods. I mean, that could be one reason, but, you know, so many foods cause allergic reactions. I that's outside my area of expertise, and can't really answer. I'm not even sure it's known.

Benoit Tano  1:42:34
One thing to back up. I just was wondering if there were some studies, but I think I have an idea. But I was just wondering, what's your idea? Well, you know, yesterday, I did a presentation on how the environmental toxins affect, for instance, peanut protein, and so the toxin overload may be contributing to the allergenicity of the protein by modify the epitopes that the antigen presenting cells and the other immune cells see, and probably that's what is driving the allergy in those those foods.

Speaker 3  1:43:13
So you think it's the it's the herbicide or the genetic modification itself.

Benoit Tano  1:43:17
So No, all of the things that we do into the protein, the all the pesticides, the herbicide, the fungicide, the all of them combined affect the protein itself. It's like we're we talk about the genetic modification in humans. So does it in the proteins, and once the proteins are modified, then the epitopes are different, and that is seen by the antigen presenting cells as danger, and then they're picking it up and they're attacking it, and I suppose that's what is causing the allergies.

Speaker 3  1:43:53
Yeah, yeah. I mean, that's an interesting theory. Um, I have an allergist friend. I can, I can ask about that, although I don't know if the the prevalence or incidence of soy allergy is higher now than it was, you know, 40 years ago. I mean, we've known about soy allergy for a long time, so I don't, I don't actually think there's been an increase, and it's still so much lower than so many other common allergens like milk and eggs and and peanuts. But

Speaker 1  1:44:27
I don't know well, just to back up clinically, the the effectivity of gene for breast cancer, so me working in a cancer facility that does genetic testing. We also do genetic analysis for supplements. Gene comes out in a lot of estrogen dependent cancers. So this is something, again, that was done in vitro. But as you see, you said, the How can gene stand alone on itself in relation to cancer treatment or even prevention is still to be determined, because in this protocol that we do, we combine this with so many supplements and other even interventions such as low dose chemotherapy. But one thing that I just want to point out there that it does have evidence in terms of, yes, it's it's usefulness in such specific cancers, because it shows up in most in our breast cancers, ovarian and even uterine cancers. That's why I get the dose. You're right. The dose is to be determined. I mean 150 milligrams, two to three times a day, as recommended most of the time, as supplements, but we can even go higher on that. So

Speaker 3  1:45:36
wait and can I interrupt you? Can you clarify that you're recommending 600 milligrams? Of ice of gene a day for prevention or treatment.

Speaker 1  1:45:46
This is actually according 125 milligrams, at least 200 to two to three times a day as part of the so it's not reaching that much. So it's even less than 500 milligrams. The reason why we're confident in that is because we're using a genetic test that actually uses the patient's blood in relation to the molecules of gene against it, and thus quantifying the killing capacity in relation to the amount of circulating cancer cells in that specific sample of the patient. So that's why, again, we're not making our money on that alone, we're putting other supplements that also is offered by this genetic test and also other therapies that goes along with this cancer therapy protocol. But yes, the agonistine is definitely having his own stance against cancer.

Speaker 3  1:46:34
Yeah, that that's really interesting. If you can send me anything, I'd really appreciate it if you have anything. But obviously, you know, again, in humans, I mean, there, there have been short term studies where isoflavones have been fed for like, 900 milligrams of isoflavones a day, a few like that. But for the most part, the intervention dose is not going to be more than 100 and and half of that would be gene, so 50 milligrams. Now in the one study, in one of the breast cancer marker studies, the subjects consumed 235 milligrams of ISO flavors, but 150 was gene, and they got no in post menopausal women, there was no effect on proliferation, but there was a decrease in increase in apoptosis. But that was, that was really a large dose of 150 milligrams of of geneste, and that's rarely the case. So yeah, I'd be, I'd love to learn more about that.

Speaker 1  1:47:43
I think all the questions in mind, Dr Bill are all x down, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:47
Dr cattle, Pang states they inject phosphatidylcholine and deoxy collate, sourced from soy for fat melting every two weeks. Are there any risks? Can't say I don't think so either. So I'm using that stuff for years. So okay, Stefan, has a lot of information on the chat that I don't really want to read. Do you have want to have some comments or anything, Stefan?

Speaker 4  1:48:16
Maybe I can counter this lecture with a lecture of my own. I've compiled a lot of research on this subject, including, you know, a lot of these epidemiological and studies and where they really came from. And that's really the point, like, who's funding these, who's researching these, and that's really important to understanding the results and positions of some of these institutions, like the dietetics societies, the HA, we have to look back at the history of how these seed oils came to be. And then we also have to go back to how these things are created, the processing. We have to go back to the how. We have to go back to the Maillard reaction, really. And so that's a lecture series that I want to give to you guys. Is going back to food, cooking, chemistry, Maillard reaction, going back to that, because we can't be relying on these big, big studies, because they are funded by sometimes people, they're trying to sell you products.

Speaker 3  1:49:14
February 18, Can I Can I respond? Go ahead. Yeah. So first of all, I actually have the opposite take on it, because I think often the scary stuff is being promoted by people that are trying to sell you stuff, or trying to sell you books, whereas, and in terms of the American Heart Association, I read all the articles about how it started out and what companies funded this and that that's, you know, that's not really nutrition. That's another, another type of investigation. But when I look at the individuals who it's not an organization, it's individuals come out with position papers, and they may have 1015, authors, lot of times. I'll know many of them, least, if not personally, by by reputation. You know, there's these people have are like, you don't go into this field to make money. You don't. You don't become a researcher, a professor anywhere if your goal is to make money. I consider these to you know, in general, these people to be quite you know, above board have excellent reputation. So it's not the AHA, so much as it is the individuals that create these, create these position papers, and in terms of the processing, I think processing is a very important consideration for seed oils, and I think probably the one of, if not the main anti seed oil person bases her concern on processing, not Actually linoleic acid, which is the case for most people, but in that case, I think you look at the EPI studies where people are actually consuming the oils, and you see if higher oil consumption is associated with the lower or increased risk. So isn't that something that you would consider it to be a value.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:31
You're muted there. Stefan,

Speaker 4  1:51:34
I mean, I'm not really sure what the question is. I mean, you were talking about oils and if they decrease diseases.

Speaker 3  1:51:46
Yeah, so, so what I'm saying, I'll repeat it. Sorry if I wasn't very articulate. In the end, you have the process the oil goes through various processing steps, and you can debate is, Is this too much of a compound, or to you know, what happens compositionally to the oil? But in the end, if you look at what effect the oil has on health status, that's the most. That's really the only relevant outcome that one needs to consider is what happens for your disease status when you consume the oils. And to my reading of the literature, higher oil consumption is associated with a better health status versus lower oil consumption. Do you not agree with that?

Speaker 4  1:52:39
I mean, the trends are not going in the favor of more seed oil consumptions. Everyone's getting sicker. No,

Speaker 3  1:52:46
no, but that, but that's, I don't mean to be picky, but come on that those are just the gross correlations. Ecological observations. You look at individuals, not group data. You look at in studies of 50,000 people, you and where you can control for a bunch of confounding variables, you look to see whether individuals in the highest intake group, whether it's a quartile or a quintile of seed oil intake or linoleic acid intake, has a lower cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease risk than people who are consuming

Speaker 4  1:53:19
the least amount. So they're supplementing linoleic acid. No, not supplements,

Speaker 3  1:53:24
it's they're actually getting it from the oils themselves. So these are observational studies where you record their entire dietary intake, and then you look at how linoleic acid intake is associated with risk of various diseases on an individual basis. That's how you do observational studies.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:46
And who's funding these studies, not

Speaker 3  1:53:48
not companies, not for darn sure, these things are NIH funded. They're cost millions of dollars, millions and millions and millions of dollars. They go on for they've been going on for decades, epic Oxford. I mean, they're just readily available in the literature.

Speaker 4  1:54:04
Are they? Well, I know I'm aware of epic Oxford, but what type of oil are they? Are they using?

Speaker 3  1:54:11
So it's they're recording what people consume for their habitual diet, so they can ask about the oil. If it's a study done in the United States, it's going to be soybean oil, because it accounts for 7% it's a number one edible oil by far. So if you're getting linoleic acid, most of it's going to be becoming from soybean oil in this country.

Speaker 4  1:54:36
Yeah, that's That's true. It's a lot of soybean oil out there.

Speaker 1  1:54:41
I think Mark, where it's coming from, really, is the Omega three balance. And it's a very big debate here in the integrative field about omega threes and Omega six is and as I think the consensus here, really, it's all about the balance. And there's an index that we kind of follow in relation to a higher index benefits more of like, for example, cardiovascular if you're higher index, right? So this is, again, right, right. So nobody, as far as I've seen so many lectures about and even debates, nobody wins this, this

Speaker 3  1:55:15
specific No, no, but that's fine. That's fine, but Bill Harris created that index right and, and he's the one who leads the charge saying the that the ratio is completely irrelevant. And he's on the the paper. He's on, he's one of the authors on the paper that I suggested you look at if you want more information about that topic. I mean, one of the, one of the things about the ratio again. Look at I'm a soy guy. I've only been studying oils for four years now, and you can tell I talk about a lot of different topics, which means you don't have, you know, the ultimate expertise on anyone. But one of the things that he mentions, which I think makes so much sense, is you can consume five grams of linoleic acid and one gram of linolenic acid, that's a ratio of five to one, or you can consume, you know, a half a gram of linoleic acid and 1/5 of a gram of linoleic acid, and it's still a ratio of five to one. And those are completely different situations. So he recommends, he says that you don't want to improve your ratio. Lower your ratio by reducing linoleic acid intake, if anything, you want to improve your ratio by increasing more omega three, which I, you know, totally endorse. And it was also based on the assumption that linoleic acid is converted to arachidonic acid, and that just doesn't appear to be the case.

Speaker 1  1:56:44
Yep, again, the hot topic, and the answers can be up to tomorrow.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:50
So yep. So you were worried you didn't have enough material. Mark, yeah, it's, it's 10 of seven here. I'm not sure where you're at. It's 10 of 10 in the east coast. So, yeah, that's all of the questions we have. Do you have a short summary and give us a little wrap up?

Speaker 3  1:57:13
Yeah, I would focus it on soy. I Well, first of all, I think Nova, ultra processed food is a I think, is, many respects, may be doing more harm than good because it's throwing out, it's it's causing people potentially to avoid many healthful foods. And I think for soy foods, you know, I recommend two servings a day, and that could be a cup of soy milk and three, four ounces of tofu, ounce of soy nuts. You know, it's a good source of protein. There's no downside to it. I think that's a reasonable amount. If you're going for cholesterol reduction, you gotta focus on the 25 grams of soy protein per day. If you're looking at some of these potential benefits of ISO flavors, you know, then probably, again, about two servings is going to do enough. But there's a lot of good beans out there. It's not just all about soybeans. Just getting more plant foods in general seems to be beneficial.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:10
So, so like, like in the hormone world, that reflex reaction from the so called, know it alls is it turns out to be wrong. I hope

Unknown Speaker  1:58:22
in the chat, Chinese restaurant, safe. We're gonna go to Vegas, and probably we'll go to eat Chinese food.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:28
There you go. Be careful with the soy sauce there.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:36
Thursday night, we're going out, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:39
Yeah, there's, I think Halas is starting to hold up people.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:42
So, okay, so yeah, I'm going to be there. I'm leaving tomorrow night. I'll be there and hope to see some of our some of our friends who we you know, we only get to see you online here. There's a link here for something about Instagram uh, copy, Stefan, whatever that's for.

Speaker 4  1:59:04
Yeah, that's, uh, that's a new medical diagnosis I've identified. It's called Panda Express. I when you go out to eat at Panda Express and then you get a hordeolum,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:16
well, there's your first mistake is going to eat at Panda Express. I mean, who does that?

Speaker 4  1:59:21
The high oxidative stress? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:25
it'll last at least 24 hours.

Benoit Tano  1:59:28
Yeah, I suggest that the group meets on Saturday. I will be there on Friday night, so I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:37
We won't be able to miss you. Dr Tano, you with your new with your new hairdo there, you'll get pretty sporty there with that new hair. So, so we'll be looking forward to seeing you. Yes, okay, yeah, I'll be there tomorrow night, and I know Doctor Nari is going to be there, and Stefan and anybody else, another thing, Doctor Quinn, who's not on tonight, Mark, we can't thank you enough for your expertise and your and your great information that you shared with us tonight, and we'll we'll have the video ready as as soon as we Can, and we'll get you a copy of it. And who do we got next week? Doctor Mario.

Speaker 1  2:00:27
I think it's Mira, mira health, yeah, Mira NeuRA care. It's a new type of hormone testing. It's newer than Dutch. So this is something that I think everybody would be interested in especially the hormone aficionados out there.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:42
So we're going to learn about some new hormone testing and and then the next two weeks are, Tuesday night is Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, and I'm taking off. So if anybody wants to host the webinar and find find some speakers. No, let me know. So, so I'm taking two weeks off. So what they're good. You want to take it? Stefan,

Speaker 4  2:01:09
nah, nah. We Christmas holidays. We'll take a break. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:01:14
alright. And again, Mark, thank you so much for you and Sarah your and

Benoit Tano  2:01:23
Mark, I would, I will contact you for those articles about country wide studies and stuff like that. I think that would be good. Okay, yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:32
thank you. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  2:01:33
okay, alright, thank you so much. Alright, good night, everybody, before we go. Doctor Burgess had a he's had a couple of medical setbacks. So I think the last I heard he's he had his gallbladder out, and then he was having some issues with that. So if you have a contact, I mean, I have his contact. If you want to send him, you know, good wishes, let me know, and let them know that we're thinking about them. And with that, I'm going to say good night. I hope to see whoever's in Vegas don't be a stranger. And you know, we have, we have to go there and force let them know who we are. Okay, so you can bring your myriad of books. He sent the he sent the thing online. I'm looking at your pancrea pancreas book, and it's, I'm looking at it. It's 860 pages, 80 pages, 630 pages. I don't know how you do it,

Benoit Tano  2:02:35
yeah. So that that book is good, because I wanted to see if how it can help you doctor Burgess. And so if you guys can read it through quickly and come up with some recipes for him, that would be nice.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:48
I'm going to have to give it to Dr halassie, and he can run it through an AI thing to give, to give us a summary

Benoit Tano  2:02:54
of that, yes, oh, at the end of each chapter, by the summary, by the way.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:58
Okay, alright,

Speaker 6  2:03:01
find out, because I'm going there probably tomorrow to visit him and and he's really sick right now.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:07
Yeah, alright. Well, you tell him we're thinking about him. Okay.

Speaker 6  2:03:10
I Well, I keep telling him that, because you guys have been great. Thank you. Alright, prayers. Prayers for keeping us,

Bill Clearfield  2:03:17
you know, keeping us in

Speaker 6  2:03:19
the in the loop. Marie, thanks, yeah. Ryan,

Bill Clearfield  2:03:23
alright, okay, everybody, anybody have any comments or questions again? If you have any, anybody wants to step on I got you for February 28 for that talk. You just, you just volunteered for,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:35
okay, alright, that's fine.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:39
Okay, so, so So we're good to go, and we'll see you Thursday night. We're going to dinner, right? Yeah, Nope, okay, alright, I'll be there. I'm doing the brain workshop. So I figured I beat the I beat the hormone thing to death. I don't think I need to go do that again. So, but So, okay, you're getting there when you're not getting there till Thursday afternoon, right? Thursday afternoon? Yeah, yeah. And Dr Tano, you're not going to be there till Friday, right? I did Friday? Yes, yes, alright, okay, we'll be on the lookout for you. Okay, alright. So okay, thank you. Are you? Hopefully anybody else going to be there? Let let us know, and if we don't, uh, We'll be here next week. And then after that, we'll be off for a couple weeks. And I want you to all, you know, rest up because New Year, we're going to have some new good stuff for everybody. Okay, so it's okay. Good night everybody. And please take care.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:39
Okay. Nighty night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai