Unknown Speaker  01:02
That's Good luck. I got the lights turned out.

Unknown Speaker  01:05
Yeah, I know it looks very cozy.

Speaker 1  01:07
Yeah, I know my daughters, um, did you send me those videos sections? No,

Speaker 2  01:13
you know what? I didn't get a chance to I'll do it when I'm done here. Okay, okay, yeah,

Speaker 1  01:17
because I won't do it till tomorrow. Yeah, my daughter's tonight, so, yeah, I'm sitting on my couch relaxing. I'll go into TV when there's more light. Okay, hey, Clearfield, did

Speaker 3  01:32
you get in contact with Mark Bucha to get him on the program? No, I

Unknown Speaker  01:36
didn't. Okay, I

Speaker 3  01:37
got you in an email, uh, group with him. Okay, when was that? I was probably about a week ago.

Unknown Speaker  01:49
Okay, all right. Mark, what was his name?

Unknown Speaker  01:56
You look it up here.

Unknown Speaker  02:00
Mark,

Unknown Speaker  02:03
Bell kowski,

Unknown Speaker  02:09
okay,

Unknown Speaker  02:19
I'm good 10 people.

Bill Clearfield  02:23
Yeah, you know, I think the holidays were having a little less

Speaker 1  02:28
well. I think I think that's so so far. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:39
okay, um,

Bill Clearfield  02:46
see meeting registration, Saturday. Oh, the C 60 guy, is that who you're talking about? Yeah,

Speaker 3  02:53
that guy, okay, all right, we

Speaker 2  02:56
actually had them one maybe a year ago. Uh huh, we can do it again.

Unknown Speaker  03:04
Greshka,

Unknown Speaker  03:10
what's bio he's bio light.

Speaker 3  03:12
Bio light. He's the red light panel company.

Bill Clearfield  03:19
Yeah, they, they're popping up all over that they got a big one opening in Reno, red light therapy place opening here in the next month or so. So

Speaker 3  03:30
yeah, we like ours. It works well, and

Bill Clearfield  03:33
it looks cool when you're in there, sitting in there, and you know when listening to listening to the talk, too. So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:41
no, it's very relaxing.

Speaker 2  03:46
Okay, any, any therapeutic benefits, actually,

Speaker 3  03:49
yeah, yeah, I healed one lady's trigeminal neuralgia,

Unknown Speaker  03:54
really, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:58
yeah, okay, All right, well, see dr Burgess is on.

Unknown Speaker  04:19
So I'm okay, so,

Speaker 3  04:27
yeah, he's how I ended up in Italy at the realm functional medicine conference. Dr Burgess, no. Dr Bill kowski, okay, from bio light.

Unknown Speaker  04:40
Did you? Were you a speaker there?

Speaker 3  04:43
No, I just attended the conference. I guess I can give a Melvin Nario summary of the conference.

Bill Clearfield  04:50
Yeah, do that, yeah, yeah. We like hearing about those.

Speaker 3  04:59
The story goes is I was I, we have the panel at my place, the red light panel. And I called Bio light, and I got this guy on the phone, like, Are you the sales rep for the company? I'm looking to buy another one. And he's like, Well, you could say that I'm the CEO and inventor of the bio light. I'm like, Okay, well, then I told him the story about how this lady, she had terrible trigeminal neurology of her face, and then she got in front of the red light panel and did a bit of physical therapy, and it resolved within a couple weeks. And he was like, yeah, yeah. And he explained a little bit of the mechanism behind that. And he's like, Well, if you want to learn more, can do the functional medicine conference in Rome, Italy next month. I'm like, Oh, I've been looking for an excuse to go to Italy. And so it was a sold out. They called it a symposium. What is the conference? But he got us two tickets there, and so me and Logan, we went. We stayed in Rome four nights, and it was called symposium 24 and there was about 300 Italians there, and they were mostly all nutritionists. They call them nutritionist biological nutritionists in Italy, and they work like functional medicine there. They're their functional medicine because they don't really have a robust medical functional medicine over there, there were approximately 11 doctors at this conference, and six of them gave talks, and the rest, I think they were mildly curious of or mildly skeptical of functional medicine. But I was quite impressed with their talks, because while they can't really prescribe hormones over there, so they're really hands are tied, no hormone therapy over there. So they had a real functional nutritional approach to hormone optimization, looking at the gut microbiome and nutritional therapies. They even had Terry hair tug good. They had Terry hair tuck up on the stage. He did his, you know, dog and pony show, and if you ever seen him do this, his physical exam, where he points out flaws on people and tells them what they're lacking. So they him up there and but he was also aware that they can't prescribe hormones. So he was telling all the nutritional therapies, the doses to how to optimize hormones. And so the first day was all in Italian, and I understand it because I speak Italian, but they had little radios with the translator. And so there's a live translator sitting in the back, translating for all the foreigners, which there weren't too many, that we were the only Americans, and there was maybe a couple British people and some Norwegians, and was all mostly in Italian. And the most interesting thing I took away from the conference was how poor the doctors are and how much money they make. And I don't know if you've ever heard of this, but they don't make very much in in Italy. So that I was talking to a rheumatologist there, and I was trying to see if he was functionally minded. He wasn't, didn't have a functional bone in his body, because he was strictly mainstream. And I said, Well, how many, how much do you make in in in Italy as a top rheumatologist? And he's like, Well, take it this way. You know, I went to a conference in in New York rheumatology conference, and I brought one of my friends who worked in the social system, and one of the American doctors asked him, Well, how much do you wait make? And he's like, Well, I make a 3000 and the American rheumatologist said, you make 3000 a day. And he's like, No, I make 3000 a month. And so this is what you make in the social system in Italy. And this rheumatologist I spoke to, he was a bit more savvy. He goes into the cash system, so he'll charge about 180 euros a visit for a patient, and they will pay this because it takes, even in the cash system, it takes eight months to see him. Now, if you go through the social system, it takes two years to see a rheumatologist. I'm like, What is this? And he says, Well, I'm only one of 70 rheumatologists in Italy, so I'm doing the math on this. I'm like, There's 70 million Italian so it's one rheumatologist for million people. And I'm like, Oh, this, this math isn't mathing here. And I was trying to Red Pill him on hormones because I was like, Listen, you can fix osteoporosis, chronic pain, you know, estrogen, testosterone. He's like, no, no, no, no, this. I don't want to step on anyone's toes. This goes to the endocrinologist. Well, I said, Well, how many endocrinologists are there in Italy? He's like, bother. It's probably about 70. I'm like, Okay, you see the problem here? Okay, a lot of people need this therapy, and no one's doing it. Oh no, no, no. They don't want to step on anybody's toes. But beyond that, he can't prescribe testosterone, nor DHEA, nor pregnenolone. The only people who can prescribe this are endocrinologists, urologists and Gynecologists. Every other medical doctor can't prescribe these hormones. They can prescribe estrogen and progesterone, but they're hesitant to do so unless they step on someone's toes and beyond, making only 3000 years a month in the social system, or if he pays, if he gets cash from patients, he's taxed. 50% of his income is taxed, and then he pays 19% of his income to the medical licensing boards, so about 70% of his income is up in spokes already. I'm like, How does this work? He's like, it doesn't no one's becoming a doctor. I'm like, your son's becoming a good doctor, because he put his son through school. Now, Italian medical programs are free, but it's very competitive. There's not many spots available, so his son went through a private program in Italy called Humanitas in Milan, and it's $20,000 a year for medical school, which for us is cheap, but for them, he's going to come out work in the social system as a general practitioner. You make about 2500 euros a month before taxes. And I was like, Okay, how much does the resident make? Because he's his son is a resident there. His res, his son makes 1100 euros per month in Milan, his apartment is 1600 euros. Again, this math isn't mathing out so that is fully, you know, sponsoring this, this effort to become a doctor, but it sounds like a heroic effort here, to try to fix a system that's not fixable, because a garbage disposal man will make about as much as a doctor over there. So

Bill Clearfield  11:05
you might say that the garbage disposal man is more more important than the doctor, actually, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  11:10
so

Speaker 3  11:12
I feel like they're 50 years behind us in in functional medicine, at least. Well,

Bill Clearfield  11:17
at least. So okay, well, it's, it's little bit after five, and we have our special guest here with us, and Debbie, I'm, I'm going to mispronounce your last name, so why don't we? Why don't you pronounce it for us? So we just call her doctor Debbie for now, and she'll, she'll, she'll tell us what her last name is. Smurs is that? Is that correct? You got your Are you muted? And so Dr smurrz is Chief Medical Director of naturopathic living, multi disciplinary clinic in Markham, Ontario, so we can land. We have a few Canadian folks with us from time to time, so we've heard about your system also. She specializes in Anti Aging and Brain Health, integrating global insights and innovative modalities. From her studies in Thailand and Germany, she received many accolades from the MBT inspire Award and the Markham Board of Trade. She's a frequent speaker. We met at the one of Doctor Zen's conferences. I think it was in September. Was it might have been September? It might have been in the summer. Yeah, you're still you're muted.

Unknown Speaker  12:35
I'm still muted. No, you're not.

Speaker 2  12:37
You're good now. You're good now

Unknown Speaker  12:42
you can hear me this one, yep, you're good now. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  12:47
cool. So thank you, thank you for being with us. We usually have folks keep filtering in for sometimes, you know, through the whole the whole time, the whole talk, so we I'm going to let you introduce yourself. Thank you for being with us. Debbie was Doctor. Smurs was most interesting doctor on doctors talk. And I thought she would be great for us to let us know what she's she's been up to, and we were supposed to have her in October, but I messed up the schedule, and I apologize, and we'll, we'll take it from there. So I'm going to take it away.

Speaker 4  13:33
Fabulous. All right, so I'm going to share my screen with everyone. There we go. Weird. It's not on the first slide, okay, let me go ahead and present your mute mode.

Speaker 4  13:55
Can everyone see my screen? We're looking good, all right, and you can hear me, thanks. Thanks for looking up. Hi everyone. My name is Dr Debbie smirs. Thank you so much for having me. Really looking forward to presenting. So this is a topic that's very dear to me, and I'm quite passionate. So I will talk really quickly, because there's a lot of information that I'm trying to get through in just one hour. If I'm going too fast and I'm speaking too quickly, just, you know, somebody just say, slow down, and I will. And if you have a question, you can just, you know, shout it out. Hopefully I can. I've sort of moved you all to the side so I can only see a couple of people's faces. But by all means, let me know. Alright, so I think you guys probably saw this. This is the plan. What we're going to talk about today is all about brain health. So we are currently in a brain health crisis. When we look at some of the numbers, you know, over 40% of adults are reporting anxiety and depression, 20% brain exhaustion, 20% insomnia. And if we look at the statistics, mental health related leaves of absence increased by 33% from 2022 to 2023 so that's risen by almost 300% since 2017 and when we think about brain health, is talking about specifically cognitive decline, dementia, which is what we're going to be focusing on today. Let's look at these numbers. About 12 point 7 million people in the US are going to have dementia by 2050 that's a huge statistics. This is going to raise by almost 200% in 30 years. And when we think about Alzheimer's, it really is that loss of life. My mother passed away in 2020 and a friend of mine's mother was diagnosed with Alzheimer's at the same time, and she said to me, you know, Debbie, you're actually really lucky, because you can mourn your mother, whereas my mother's still here in body, but she's not the person that I used to have. So you can imagine the emotional toll that Alzheimer's dementia takes on the caregivers. And was also thinking about the economic impact. So in the United States alone, $345 billion is being spent on dementia, and this is expected to rise to $1 trillion by 2050, globally, $2 trillion and just by 2030, so we're truly in a brain health crisis. And the good news is that the research is out there. The research is out there when we start looking at functional medicine, what we can do to fix the problem, but changing the belief is 10 times harder than creating a new one. So right now, the ship has sailed. We're moving at full pace ahead and to turn that boat around. Well, it's tricky, and why? How did we get here? Well, there's a lot of myths that we as medical doctors are still perpetuating we're telling people that the reason that women have more dementia than men is because they live longer. We know that's not true. We know that women's brains are so different than men, we're still talking about serotonin deficiency as the leading cause of depression. Just yesterday, I listened to a medical doctor on a podcast saying that this is still our main theory, yet we now know this was debunked in 2020 we're telling people that dementia is an old person disease, and so really, why worry about it until you're 6570 years old? Yet we know that 30 years before symptoms start is when signs of the brain are changing. So for many people, that's at 35 when this study came out in 2022 a big umbrella systemic review on all the research on serotonin, and when we read what it says, this review suggests that the huge research effort based on the serotonin hypothesis has not produced convincing evidence of a biochemical basis of depression. So we suggest it is time to acknowledge that the serotonin theory, theory of depression is not empirically substantiated. Yet. We're still still touting this as some of the biggest issues out there, and in 2019 another systematic review, so showing me harm that SSRIs are doing, all authors in the study concluded that the drugs were not beneficial long term, and we know that antidepressants have been linked to increased risk of dementia. So why am I showing you these not because we're focusing on depression or anxiety today, but I just want to tell you a little bit about my backstory and how I got so invested in brain health in general. So just to set the scene, it goes back to, well, I guess, a cold autumn day in 2016 It was a long weekend my daughter, she was 10, 1011, at the time, and she had a sleepover, and so she didn't get a lot of sleep that night. She had eaten too much sugar because, because there was a sleepover. And so it was a long weekend, and on the Tuesday, she stayed home from school because she had a sore throat. No problem. On the Wednesday, I said, you know, sweetheart, I think you're okay. I think you can go to school. Today, she ran downstairs, grabbed the biggest knife she could find from our chop blocks held at her throat, and said, Mommy, if you make me go to school, I'm going to kill myself. Now, prior to this, she was a normal kid going to school every day, and yet now this led us down a deep, dark road. She dropped out of school. So my 10 year old dropped out of school, at least in Canada, when things get that bad, they'll send a homeschool teacher when they really don't want to see you anymore. Things got that bad, she would attack, if you if you can find her. So she was in constant fight or flight, so she would attack, if need be the psychiatrist psychologist. We saw everybody, you name it, they said, sure. She might kill herself, not because she's actually depressed, but because she has such bad emotional dysregulation, they diagnosed her in the 95th percentile of anxiety. Life was bad for about two months. You know, I barely worked trying to figure out what to do with this child, and it was really confusing to me, because at the time, I was focusing on mental health, I was focusing on mental health in kids. So how was it that I had noticed that my daughter was in the 95th percentile of anxiety? Well, it took us about two months to really figure it out, and it was antibiotics that got her back to school five days on antibiotics, and she looked at me and said, Mommy, I'm going to go back to school today because she had pandas pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associated with streptococcal infection. So quite literally, an infection caused her to have all of these neurological symptoms. Now, probably you've had somebody come and talk to you about pandas. Probably you've heard about it before, I'm not sure, but at the time, it was really unknown. Still to this day, many medical doctors don't admit that it's a thing. Some do, some don't. But then I started doing the research, and there were books, books published from the 60s talking about how infection can cause neurological issues, talking about, yeah, depression and infection can go hand in hand. Depression and inflammation go hand in hand. So now I am on a mission to change the way the world views brain health. And so let's go back to what our main topic is today, and that's cognitive decline. So we think dementia is something that happens to old people, but we now know that it's actually a continuum of symptoms that progress. So if it's 65 is the age where we see noticeable changes. It's really down here at around 35 that abnormal biomarkers are going on in the brain, and we can see neuro plastic changes and those mild cognitive symptoms that we're starting to see. You know, when the in the menopausal woman, the perimenopausal woman, oh, we just say that's just say that's just a normal part of aging. Is it a normal part of aging, or are these actually brain changes that we need to look at and do things to support and possibly even fix? One of the reasons that I'm so passionate about this is because 40% of dementia cases worldwide are preventable. 40% of cases worldwide are preventable, and if we can't delay, and if we can't prevent, but if we could delay, there's massive changes we could do. These numbers are from Canada. The state is 8.3 times the bigger population. So if I say 500,000 cases could be be delayed, if we delay dementia by one year, times that, by 8.4 8.3 to look at what you guys would be seeing. Um, let's go down to caregiver demand. A 10 year delay in dementia, which I truly believe we could do with what we're going to talk about today, could decrease our caregiver demand by 1 billion hours a year. That's in Canada alone. So in the States, that eight point that's 8.3 billion caregiver hours.

Speaker 4  22:46
Go to the next slide. My slides are frozen. Hold on. There we go. I'm going to talk about I'm going to use Alzheimer's, cognitive impairment, dementia somewhat interchangeably, because I don't really feel the need to pigeonhole it. But of course, it's going to be in the studies. So this is just here for your information, if you want to have a look at those later on. Now, to date, except for lecanemab, there's been no new Alzheimer's medication in the last 20 years. So where do we how do we get to this place? Well, it was really from a study that was published from the Alzheimer's Society about 2030, years ago, where we latched on to this idea of the amyloid plaque theory, of the hypothesis of Alzheimer's, and we've held on to that closely, and so almost all the drugs that we've now been using are to try to get rid of these amyloid plaques. So I mentioned lecanemab Because that has been improved in the US, and it's showing a possible 27% improvement, which is pretty, pretty awesome in some ways. You know, my parents were starting to not do well. Would I put them on a drug, even if it had very severe side effects? So there was a 27% improvement I possibly might. Though, when we do the little bit deeper in the research, we can see it's only about a 9.3% improvement when we actually look at it properly from baseline and with the severe side effects that makes us think a little bit better. So really, there are no drugs to treat Alzheimer's disease that work. So the reason being is we've really been barking up the wrong tree. We now know that Alzheimer's is not caused by amyloid plaques. Plaques. Amyloid plaques are a symptom of dementia, not the cause. So this is actually great news for us, because what now can we start focusing on when it comes to the different theories of cognitive decline? And the exciting news is there's a lot of research papers that we're going to show you today that agree with us. Yes. A lot of these things, vascular hypothesis, neuro inflammation, environmental toxins, protein misfolding, oxidative stress, they're agreeing yes, these probably are the causes of cognitive decline. When I look at my daughter, what were the causes of her mental health issues, infection, inflammation, neuro inflammation, oxidative stress. So we're seeing the same baseline for many different things that are going on in the brain. Heck, let's look at the theories of aging, oxidative stress, protein folding, hormone depletion. We see a lot of similarities in both of these. So let's go into these in a bit more detail, some of them. So I want to mention the calcium hypothesis of dementia. So this one is really just saying too much calcium. So we're having an imbalance, bringing up too much calcium in the neurons, and this is leading to neuron dysfunction and death. So what's happening? We're seeing oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuro inflammation, neural death, and this is leading to not being caused by but leading to aggregation of amyloid plaques and tau proteins. Now I was reading a study that they took the elderly, mainly women, and they reduced their calcium intake. And what did they find? They actually found memory improvements, and this was just through diet, not even through supplements. So imagine if they had thrown in some magnesium. Yet. What do we tell little old ladies to do? We tell them to go take calcium, because we're worrying about their bones. How much harm could we possibly be doing by having them take an extra calcium, something to think about, tau proteins. I want to mention quickly. So tau proteins in a healthy brain, they are stabilizing our our microtubules, so we have normal tau proteins, and it's going to give us a nice, healthy neuron in the Alzheimer's brain. What we see these tau proteins start to tangle. So then we get these neurofibrillary tangles. This stops communication through the axon. And what also happens is they start to multiply in a prime like fashion, and so this is going to cause significant neuro decline as well. So you're going to see more talk about these tau proteins, and there is are some drugs working to try to eliminate the tau, though. Again, is this actually the cause, or is it just a symptom? And we need to back off a little bit. So, oh, I have that twice, alright, so what are some of the symptoms we want to watch for when we're thinking about cognitive decline. So memory lapses, that tip of the tongue phenomenon when you know the words right there, but you just can't spit it out. Loss of train of thought, missed appointment, word finding difficulties. Then we can even get some movement issues going on, smell issues, missing appointments or social events, trouble following a conversation, a difficult time making decisions, following tasks and instructions. Now, just this week, I had a 20 year old come and see me, and she said that she was a server, and she just started taking Adderall, no vibes, and she was feeling so much better, because before then, she was getting lost at work, taking orders. She was having a really hard time following conversations. So a lot of these symptoms really do sound like things like ADHD. Some of these symptoms sound like anxiety. I know when my mom was dying, I missed appointments, I couldn't follow conversations. I was losing my train of thought quite a lot. And what about menopausal neurological symptoms? Again, that tip of the tongue phenomenon, the loss of train of thought, forgetfulness, insomnia, depression, memory issues. Are these really just these individual diseases for us to think about, or are they actually the start of possibly memory decline. We know that being female is two it gives you a two times risk. So let's talk about the risk factors of cognitive decline. Your brain shrinks when you're pregnant. Studies show MRIs, your brain shrinks when you're pregnant, and for the longest time, we told Moms, don't worry about it. It lasts for two years, and then it goes back to normal. Well, that's because they only did studies for two years. Here's a study that looked at six years later, and they're like, Oh yeah, it didn't go back to normal. Did it? As a matter of fact, these changes might actually be permanent. So could it actually be that? Yeah, and they're also saying So moving forward, when we look at neuroimaging studies, we shouldn't just say, is it a man? Is it a woman? We shouldn't just say, is it what age were they at? But do they actually have a child or not? Because we're going to see MRI changes of the brain. We're going to see smaller structures. So is this actually the first strike against women increasing their risk of Alzheimer's disease? We know women have two times more risk than men, and it's not because they live longer, as we've been told for the longest time, it's because of the changes that occur in the brain, possibly starting with pregnancy. Estrogen is brain protective, and it's your lifetime exposure that plays a role here. So how old were you when you got your first period, how many pregnancies have you used the birth control pill? How old were you at menopause and at menopause? And did you take hormones or not? These are all things that we want to take into consideration when we're looking at someone's risk. Couple of reasons, other reasons. So estrogen controls glucose metabolism, so when we don't have enough estrogen, so we'll say estrogen deficiency, it impairs the function of mitochondria in the way it metabolizes glucose. So now that's not working as well as we want. So that's one strike. We also know that in menopause, the brain goes from almost exclusively using glucose as a source of energy to now using lipids as well as glucose, so lipids as ketone bodies. Well, in women without estrogen, white matter is actually catabolized as a source of lipids to generate ketone bodies, and this is particularly detrimental in people with the APOE four gene. So we're actually capitalizing the white matter of the brain. Finally, hot flashes, and here we can't blame estrogen and progesterone, because hot path hot flashes are caused by the hypothalamus, but hot flashes cause micro intensities in the gray matter, and they found that the more of these micro intensities the person has is an increased risk of cognitive decline. So estrogen and progesterone really are our superpowers. Both are neuroprotective. Estrogen influences the structure. It's anabolic. So helps with growth. It looks at neural pathways. It helps boost brain derived neurotrophic factor. It also increases dendritic spine densities. It enhances synaptic organization and regulates colon the cholinergic system. Progesterone, This induces neuro protection more by inhibiting exocytation, promoting myelin repair, and it's been anti inflammatory effects.

Speaker 4  31:50
So does the brain shrink during menopause? I spoke earlier, it shrinks during pregnancy, and yes, in fact, the brain does shrink during menopause. So studies show that we see a decrease in the frontal and temporal cortices as well as the hippocampus, which are regions very important for higher cognitive tasks and memory, additionally deficits in verbal and visual spatial memory in post menopausal woman was shown to be smaller. So brain size is actually shrinking in menopause. Lisa mascane, if you haven't followed any of her work, she really is the one who's waving the flag saying, you know, we have to look at women's brains differently from men, from a very young well, from all ages. But what she did here, this was a fun study. It was just published in 2024 so pretty hot off the presses. And she looked at estrogen receptors, so estrogen receptor densities, and by looking at the amount of estrogen receptor so how dense they were in certain areas, she could predict if a woman was post or pre menopausal. So here I have a picture of all these animals under a tree. My dad just came back from Namibia, and he showed me a picture of all the animals trying to get that little bit of shade. So they're all hanging out under that tree. And this is exactly what's happening. The estrogen receptors are all coming to that place where they need the estrogen the most to get that little bit of estrogen that shade. And so the more estrogen receptors we can predict lower memory scores in general. So we can this is just showing just how important estrogen is when it comes to memory, mood and cognitive symptoms. All right, age is a risk factor. I'm gonna that one's pretty self explanatory. Depression, a history of depression increases your risk of dementia, concussion. So this is a dose dependent relationship, so one concussion increases your risk. Two concussions increases it even more, and a dose dependently goes up by that genetics. So a family history of dementia will increase your chances by about 30% and there's been about 20 different genes that have been reviewed, but the APOE gene is the one that's been the most studied. So just quickly, you all have the gene. We all have a Poe. But which variant Do you have? If you are lucky enough to have the e2 variant, you're lucky. This is protective. It's going to help you out. I have the e3 and the e4 so the e3 is neutral, sort of, neither good nor bad, whereas the e4 actually has damaging effects. So to give you a little bit more details on that, so typically, what happens is the APOE comes from the astrocyte, and it's involved in lipid lipidation and a nice, healthy cell, this is going to help with neuron repair, cell membrane stability, dendritic growth, maintaining a synaptic cleft, all the good things we want to see now in an unhealthy cell from injury, stress, aging, then we're more like this. Apo E gene causes to see more of these neurological symptoms. So in the astroglial cells, we see lipid metabolism disorders. This can lead to lead to not caused by the beta amyloid plaques in the brain. It also causes disorder of lipid metabolism the microglia, which leads to inflammation, and we often see neural cells depth from that. This also leads to more beta amyloid plaques and these tau proteins, remember, we talked about those earlier. Well, the APOE causes these cow proteins to get tangled up, leading to neurodegeneration. And of course, Coronavirus sclerosis can also be a factor in all of these. So this is what we want to avoid as much as possible. And if you are the APOE four gene carrier, definitely going to make things a little bit more risky for you. Diabetes is now called type three, sorry. Alzheimer's is now called type three diabetes. So what's going on with the brain in that case? So if you remember, Oh, if you remember your regular metabolism, what's going on is insulin binds cause, causing its glute for receptor to come out to the cell surface, allowing glucose to go into the cell. This also causes enough nitric oxide to be produced by the endothelium so that insulin can go into the cell. So that's we want to have happen when we have insulin sensitivity. What happens is we don't get the glucose or the insulin into the cell. This causes a couple of different things to happen. One, we don't get the acetylcholine coming out, so now we don't have the messengers, so the brain can't talk to the rest of the body as well as we want. We also see an increase in increase in tumor necrotic factor, so an increase in inflammation, and again, an increase in these Emma Baloo plaques in the brain. Decreasing their clearance and an increase in tau phosphorylation, which is going to cause those micro tangles. So that's a little bit of a review of what's happening with insulin sensitivity in the brain. All right, these ones are interesting, these risk factors. So brain reserve is actually how big is your brain? The bigger your brain, the more tissue you have to lose before symptoms arise. So we talked earlier about, if we can't stop someone from getting dementia, maybe we can delay it. A big way to delay it is to have a bigger brain. Another way to delay it is cognitive reserve. So brain reserve is the size of your brain. Cognitive reserve is the way your brain thinks. So if, for example, you want to get from A to point B, but there's a block in the road somewhere, as long as you have strategies and your brain can think it through, then we can find other pathways to get there. So here's a study showing somebody with high brain reserve versus low brain reserve, and this line indicates when we typically see signs of dementia. And again, I this is where the studies are, so I need to use these terms. So these are when this sign show for the dementia visit. Someone with a low reserve is going to be diagnosed with dementia or Alzheimer's, earlier than somebody with a higher reserve.

Speaker 4  38:09
Other risk factors when you're looking at the patient in front of you, low movement reserve. So this goes on through your entire life. How much have you moved your body? The healthier your brain, the more you're going to move your body throughout life, systemic inflammation. Of course, we know that inflammation is at the root of all chronic degenerative disease, and has been put forth now as a leading cause of dementia. And when we think about systemic inflammation, think about your lifetime exposure, infection, allergies, autoimmune disease. So yes, somebody with autoimmune disease probably is at a higher risk for having some kind of memory cognitive decline later on in life. Oral hygiene, there's a link between poor oral hygiene and Alzheimer's disease. We know that the gingivitis bacteria can actually cross the blood brain barrier, travel into the brain. It destroys neurons, and it's actually been found in these amyloid plaques. Think about how close your brain, your teeth are to your brain, so good oral hygiene is imperative. Hearing loss research, research is showing a link between hearing loss and dementia, their relationships not that well understood yet. They're saying it's probably because elderly, when they're getting hearing loss, begin to isolate themselves from society. I wouldn't be surprised if in the next couple of years, we find that there's actually more to it than that, and that we can find that connection. Cardiac issues, heart and brain go very closely together. Lifestyle factors, of course, smoking, poor diet, air pollutants, alcohol. We'll talk more about all these things and neurotoxin exposure. So that kind of gives you a quick little sum up of all your different risk factors. So there's a saying Tony Robbins says change only happens when the pain of staying the same is greater than the pain of change. I say that change happens when we have measurable metrics and have something to work towards. So in my clinic, my motto really is, measure it, mend it, maximize it. So some of the tests that I want you to consider, what are people's APOE gene? So what is the genetic their genetic predisposition for this? I do an EEG brain scan, so the p3 100. So I like this scan because it allows me to see how much energy and power each you can put towards certain tasks. It also looks at propensity to anxiety, depression, ADHD, and then I do it. We do a trail making test. And so this is a simple test where you're literally a, one, b2, so it's but then as it gets harder, we can see how well the person can do. Now, the nice thing about this is it's a fairly cheap test that I can do in clinic, and then we can reproduce it. So I was able to decrease my brain age by about 10 years by simply doing the work. It's kind of like having a scale. You might know that you want to lose a couple of pounds, but until you stand on that scale, you don't actually make change happen, and you want to be able to compare it later on. So I like having biomarkers that we can look at. The Omega three index test is another one you might want to consider. It's looking at how much Omega three is in the membrane of the red blood cell, and you want it to be between about eight and 12. I put most of my patients, especially if I'm worrying about cognitive decline on omega three. You'll see some of the research papers later, why. And we know that 70% of the dry weight of the brain is fat, so I always try to do the things that are as cheap as possible, that we can reproduce as often as possible. So I don't typically do this one as much as I could, but maybe we'll do it more metabolic dysfunction. So insulin resistance, like, let's face it, if somebody actually is diagnosed with diabetes, they've been swimming in a pool of insulin resistance and metabolic dysfunction, probably for at least 10 years. So let's try to diagnose this early, even things like hip to waste race ratio. You can see someone coming into your clinic that probably has metabolic dysfunction. And what are you going to do about this? I find HBA 1c great. It tells us of three months. But if we do this little calculation, so this is, you know, free on any website, and we look at fasting insulin to fasting glucose to get the homework, we can predict insulin sensitivity before we're going to see it in other ways. And patients like to see this. So cheap, easy, fast to do, and we can see what their insulin resistance level is before we get to the HBA, 1c homocysteine. I love homocysteine. It's a marker of inflammation, but it's also known to be a direct neurotoxin in itself. I'm going to talk more about it momentarily and just knowing inflammation so testing, CRP, ESR, what about thyroid function? We know that signs of hypothyroidism can look a lot like memory decline, mood disorders, mental sluggishness. So understanding it, understanding what's going on with the hearts. So knowing your lipids, nitric oxide, vitamin D, there's a strong correlation between high levels of vitamin D with better memory, especially if someone is an e3, carrier, e4, carrier. And then the visual contrast sensitivity testing is something that I also like to do in my clinic. So the visual contrast sensitivity testing is a free test that you can have your patients just do online, and what it's looking at is when they can see contrast in different visual markers. And so I actually been doing this for years and years and years in mold. Remember, I started focusing on kids, and it gives us a place to start. So it's an all, it's a free or almost free test, depending on what website you use, and it gives us an idea if we actually want to now do further testing to think about mold. But then this is a study that shows they looked at if Visual Contrast Sensitivity could actually be a marker that we could think about for dementia. Is there? Is it more likely to be higher in people with cerebral amyloids and tow depositions? And sure enough, the conclusion was that alterations in Visual Contrast Sensitivity were related to cerebral depositions of amyloid and tau, suggesting that this measure may be a good biomarker for detecting Alzheimer's related pathophysiology. So what can you do with this? It can just give you an idea. So are we making progress? Are we doing some different therapies, and is it helping? Here's a free test that we can use to just sort of check it out as we go along. I do the nitric oxide test in my clinic. It says just a saliva test, so they just stuck on a they don't suck. It's like a pool test. They put it in their mouth, and we can see, or in a container, we can see how much nitric oxide they're making. Nitric oxide so important, as I showed you earlier, in in brain formation, brain support, fasci dilation, blood flow and that synaptic plasticity. So homocysteine is a modifiable risk marker, risk factor for developing cognitive decline and dementia. I have been using this one again for years, because we do know that blood homocysteine levels correlate directly with a person's memory, mental alertness and mood. There was a study that had researchers predict children so school age children's marks based on their homocysteine levels, and they were able to be quite, quite accurate in some ways. So homocysteine is a nice thing to get to know where we're at. Typically you want it to be, to be lower than what the labs say. So for a 40 year old, typically not higher than five. For a 50 year old, not typically higher than six. And we know that we can, we can support this. We can fix that. We can bring it down. So not only is it involved in the whole the glutathione pathway, but it's also a neurotoxin in itself. All right, let's talk about some treatments. So brain reserve is the actual amount of tissue that you have in your brain. So what can we do to support that brain and keep it nice and big? Well, the first thing to do is to stop the shrinkage. So what is your patient doing that might actually be causing them to lose brain structure? Neurotoxins are a big one. We know alcohol. Some people are saying no alcohol. Some people are saying one or two drinks might be beneficial, just to help with stress, I would say, treat the person in front of you. See what they need and what's going on. Heavy metals. Heavy metals are also very interesting. We know that they are smart. They sequester throughout the body, and then when we think, let's just go back to little old women as they hit menopause, as they hit menopause, and they get osteoporosis, if we have heavy metals that might have hung out in the bones. Now those are starting to come out again, so maybe they were exposed to it a lot younger in life, and now we're seeing the heavy metal issues Botox. Some studies are actually showing that memory decline may be associated with Botox. Who's getting Botox? It's our menopausal woman who seems to be really starting to show those cognitive decline signs. It's our menopause, a woman. So again, just something to think about, but probably the biggest thing we can do with stress. And of course, we could have an entire week long discussion just about different strategies to decrease their stress, but we'll leave that for another day. Another thing is possibly hormone replacement. We talked about how not having enough hormones could be affecting causing shrinkage in the brain. So could hormone replacement therapy be helping? Well, we do know that hormone replacement therapy helps with not developing dementia. So here was a study that looked at 6 million women, and it was just published in 2023 and it showed that women who took hormones in midlife to treat their menopause symptoms were less likely to develop dementia. So I know the fellow who was speaking before I came in was talking about hormones and all the great benefits about it. So it sounds like that that's something that most of you in this room are doing.

Speaker 4  47:57
Other strategies to help with brain reserve is to actually increase it now, so that was to stop the decline. What can we do to actually make the brain bigger? The number one thing is exercise. So even 4000 steps a day has been shown to increase gray matter in the brain. Now, ideally you'll have your patients do complex movements. So boxing, dancing have been shown to be much better than just walking and repetitive movement. So my suggestion is get them started, 4000 steps a day minimum, and you'll see why later when we talk about brain derived neurotrophic factor, but at least 4000 steps a day, and then dancing and boxing. I actually teach body combat. I teach a combat class, and a lot of my page my applications. This time, my participants are in their 60s, 70s, even 80s. And you know, they're they're on, they're sharp. So constantly doing things to support your brain. Another thing that we can do to make your brain bigger are those omega threes. So big, systematic reviews show that people who took omega three fatty acids had better learning, memory, cognition, well being and blood flow to the brain. Ideally, you're going to start young. So you're going to start in your 50s or even younger. Like I think all athletes should be on omega threes. I think most people should be on omega threes, but definitely athletes. I also coach rugby, and I think about those little brains and the concussions that might come out of it. And so starting them to give them to support young definitely things we want to do cognitive reserve. So remember that one that was how the brain thinks. Can we come up with different strategies so prevention is the best medicine. So people who have higher education, people who continue to learn at work, have been shown to have less dementia and increase in fact, not having higher education and not being able to continually learn at work, increase your chances of getting dementia by 2.2 times. That's a lot. So social engagement is probably the number one thing that we can do to increase your cognitive reserve as an adult. If we haven't done prevention, we can do social engagement. Definitely push that now we're getting patients to spend a lot of time doing memory games. Right? Maybe we're not doing that, but they're being told to. So most of my patients are coming in spending hours crossword puzzles, Sudoku Now, unfortunately, what we found is that learning in one domain does not necessarily carry over into another domain. So doing crossword puzzles, doing Sudoku makes you better at crossword puzzles and Sudoku, but it doesn't actually help when it comes to things like memory or cognitive decline. What did seem to push the envelope were complex, novel games. So rise in nations. Rise in nations is a role playing game. It's online, and it's difficult for they had elderly, so 65 and older do it, and they found it frustrating. They found it difficult, but they found that when they looked at their cognitive improvements, they saw changes so complex and novel. So this made me think, well, what about learning a new language? We're always told that learning a new language is going to be is going to be really helpful, and so wouldn't this help with cognitive reserve and help with making us better thinking? So this was an interesting study looking at meditation. So compared meditation to learning a new language, and they had so they had three arms. This was published in 2023 they had three arms. So one group learned a new language, one group did meditation, and one was just no intervention. So that was our control. And it was 18 months. So it was a pretty long study, and it was intense. The intervention group a two weekly a two hour weekly group session, daily home practice, and one day a very intense home practice, so longer than that, and the main thing they were looking for was for cognition. So episodic memory, executive function, attention, that's what they were looking for. Did learning new language push the envelope? Did meditation push the envelope? And the answer was no. Learning new language didn't really help with cognition, neither did a meditation. Don't get me wrong, meditation is fabulous for relaxation and and stress, and we know what helps with anxiety and depression, but when it actually came to did we see better numbers on testing for cognition? And the answer was no. So why do I bring this up? Because we want to make wins for our patients, and so sometimes just doing small little things, like hanging out with indoor plant might be just as good as having them spend hours doing crossword puzzles Sudoku. Don't get me wrong, if they like it, that's great, but we want them to be constantly feeling like they're getting success. Here was a fun little study. This was done in university students, where they wanted to see whether or not meditation or indoor plants could actually help with cognitive restoration. And so they had the participants do a difficult task which made them feel slightly distressed after, made them feel sort of down after. So effect was down. And both interventions the plant as well as meditation. So So then after the task, they had them either meditate or hang out with a plant or do nothing. And both groups, even just the group that hung out with the plant, saw a decrease in their distress and a positive impact on effect restoration. But neither groups saw support and any change in cognitive restoration. So So just thinking about the different therapies we can get our patients to do, I think plants are fabulous, so making sure we have some in there, in their quarters is a good idea. All right, we talked earlier about how the research is catching up. So here's a study that was published in 2022 and they look to see, could oxidative stress and antioxidants at Antioxidants help with cognitive impairment? And the results said yes. The result results showed that mild cognitive impairment is at least partly due to so caused by neuro oxidative toxicity, and suggest that treatments targeting lipid peroxidation in the GSh system may be used to treat and or prevent mild cognitive impairment. Awesome medicines getting researchers getting is catching up oxidative stress. What about mitochondria dysfunction? Neuroinflammation, metabolic alterations? Yes. So this study was published 2021 neuroinflammation and oxidative stress may occur in the early stages of Alzheimer's and likely precedes neuron loss in its progression. We should look at the hippocampus as a region to look at and targeting the bioenergetics of neuro inflammation and oxidative stress is a promising approach for treating Alzheimer's disease. Yet, when we look at what drugs have been approved by the FDA, are any of these focusing on mitochondrial dysfunction, anti inflammation or oxidative stress? We see some doing colinary Colin or Esther's inhibition, so helping with the cell signaling, and almost all of them, including the new drugs that are pending approval are focusing on dissolving these amyloid plaques in the brain, which has been shown to really cause more harm than good when we look at what the side effects are. So the research is catching up, saying we're barking up the wrong tree, but the treatment that we're doing hasn't caught up. So quickly. Just to go back to biochemistry, 101, what's happening with this mitochondrial dysfunction? So here we're seeing, when we have the mitochondria and we have dysfunction, we have decreased ATP NAD and glutathione being produced. This leads to improper lipid peroxidation. So instead of getting any kind of anti inflammatory effect, we get pro inflammation, leading to neurodegeneration, choline permeability, so even leaky brain. And then we get so not caused by but ends up showing we get these amyloid plaques and these cattle protein aggregations. So again, really exciting if instead of focusing all of our energy on these end stages, we start focusing on even, yeah, the end stages here, we start focusing our energy on these real root causes here. So research says, let's focus on decreasing oxidative stress. So what can we do to decrease our oxidative stress? You guys know this, but just again, here's a nice, healthy mitochondrial cell producing lots of ATP and just a few free radicals when we have dysfunction of our mitochondria. So it's due to inflammation, neurotoxins, infection, stress and yes, sadly, aging as well, we start to see these damage mitochondria that are in de stress, and we see way, way, way, way more free radicals. So here we only had a flip few. Now we have tons and tons and a lot less ATP. So now we have less energy that our brain can put towards different functions. So we want to decrease the antioxidants, or decrease the oxidative stress as much as possible and try to quench these free radicals, but that's only going to be a piece of it. So we can quench the free radicals, but we need to try to stop having these de stress cells. So focusing on getting rid of the toxins, decreasing the inflammation, decreasing the infections, and, of course, really, really working on decreasing the stress in any ways we can look at acupuncture. This was a systematic review that came out just this year, and it was kind of fun, and it was looking at, can acupuncture actually help with vascular dementia? It was on animals, but it was still a fairly large review, systematic review,

Speaker 4  57:39
do I have the numbers here anyway, in its show it was a meta analysis, and it showed that, yes, acupuncture had a significant effect on reducing oxidative stress by lowering pro oxidant levels and increasing antioxidant levels in animals. So that's pretty neat. So there, and if you're doing acupuncture with your patients, you can get a twofer because you're getting them out, they're having social engagement, and it does actually show that increases it decreases oxidative stress. All right, brain derived neurotrophic factor. Can't have a talk on the brain without talking about this little guy. So this is a protein found in the brain and the muscles. It plays a significant role in metabolism, aging, cognitive function, behavior and memory. And of course, as we age, we produce less of our BDNF, and this is a key driver when it comes to neuroplasticity and neurogenesis. And lower levels of BDNF lead to fewer neurons and fewer connections between them, making it more difficult for us to learn form new memories and so just quickly remember neuroplasticity versus cognitive reserve. It's interesting. I think we only learned about neuroplasticity. What about 40 years ago? 30 years ago? Until then, we thought that the brain was set and there's nothing we can do to change it. We now know that there is some neuroplasticity. So neuroplasticity refers to the brain's ability to reorganize itself by forming new neural pathways and connections. Cognitive reserve, if you remember, we talked about, refers to the brain's ability to improvise and find alternative ways of completing certain tasks. So this would be even despite any kind of brain damage. So if you've had a concussion, if you have bigger cognitive reserve, it would take longer before any kind of symptoms would arise. So cognitive reserve relies on the brain specificity to build resilience and adapt new challenges. So what is the best thing we can do to increase our BDNF and its high intensity exercise? So these ideas of a seven minute workout, you know, just going through nice, gentle walks, I say to my patients, I need you to put on running shoes, and I need you to put on a sports bra. If you don't have to put on a sports bra. To my female patients, it doesn't count. A stroll doesn't count. It needs to be movement with focus, with intention, even those 4000 steps we spoke about earlier, for brain reserve. But if we want to increase our BDNF. We need high intensity, we need to produce heat, we need to produce lactic acid. And what they found is, the higher, the better. And every minute counts, the higher, meaning, the higher the amount of intensity. So there was no threshold on the maximum found. Now we want to tell people, you know bit more parameters and what they could do. So moderate intensity shown an increase in BDNF after doing 40 minutes of at least 65% of a maximum heart rate, and this was sufficient to increase BDNF and improve memory for up to 24 hours. So I would say the number one thing we need to do is get our patients moving. I have a patient who definitely is experiencing mock cognitive impairment. She's she's in her early 60s, and I started to get her to do hit exercises, and she can't believe the difference that she's noticing just in her focus and her memory and her ability to find words. So small things we can do, but we really need to. We need to push it, because there's so much talk on Instagram and Tiktok, you know, like, how to do things easy, and it's not easy. And as a matter of fact, regular exercise is really the key here. So we want to have regular exercise leads to increase in neurogenesis and lasting improvements in brain function and memory. Now I said that we had to create lactic acid. So they're not exactly sure how the signal for the brain drive neurotrophic factor crosses the blood brain barrier and gets into the brain. And one theory is that maybe it's actually because of the lactic acid. So that's one possibility. Another possibility could be heat so increasing body temperature also increases BDNF, and heat therapy increases the BDNF, it also decreases serum cortisol levels. And so body temperature could be the key. So we do know that even saunas can have an exercise like effect in some ways. So another thing that we can do cautiously with people that are experiencing cognitive decline. Oh, I had that slide twice too. All right, so let's just sum up. I think I'm got a few minutes left. Just what can we do, starting now to help our patients with a couple of What strategies can we take home? So exercise. If there's only one thing you took out of this talk, it would be get your patients to exercise. I encourage endurance exercise, high intensity, if they're able to at least two to three times a week, we want them to do movement. So when patients tell me they walk, I say, that's nice, and that's your movement. And I want you to do that, but I also want you to do more. I want you to do higher intensity exercise, and I also want you to do stress strength training. And like I said in my body combat class, I get 70 year old patient participants all the time. So we need them to get strong. We need them to do endurance exercise. And we know grip strength in itself. Poor grip strength is linked to increased aging. So here all the different things that exercise is going to do. I truly think it is that magic pill. So it's going to help glucose homeostasis. It improves our vasculature. It decreases stress cortisol levels. It improves our mitochondrial efficiency. It lowers inflammation. It improves oxidative stress. It increases BDNF and increases our brain reserves. So the size of our brain, so so many of those risk factors are hit away just with exercise alone. The other thing we really need to do is start the war on sugar. So we need to decrease our chances of insulin resistance in our patients. So here's a direct comparison. I love showing this to my patients, Dan on yogurt, compared to a Kit Kat bar. Exact same exact, same sugar, same fibers, same proteins, the same iron, same calcium. Yet they think that they are doing benefits for themselves by having that yogurt. So have the cake at bar if that's really what you want, because it's no better or no worse than yogurt. How did we get here? So going back, we talked earlier about how we got in this place because we barked up the wrong tree for so long. A lot of this goes back to an article that was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. In the 1950s they started realizing, like, ooh, sugar's a bad thing, but the Sugar Research Foundation got a hold of it, and so they had them downplay the role of sugar on the role of cardiovascular and instead point the finger at cholesterol and fat, and that's how the war on fat started, when really it should have been the war on sugar. Another way that we can increase our brain derived neurotrophic factor is omega three. So yeah, take mega three probiotics. So this was interesting, because we know that one of the risk factors is poor microbiota in the gut, the gut brain access. And so here was a 2023 systematic review and meta analysis that was looking at the benefits on probiotic supplementation when it comes to cognition. So they looked at all English and Chinese databases between 1984 to 2023 looking about probiotic use in older adults, with the main outcome being cognitive impairment. And so anything that's green actually showed significant benefit. Anything that's red didn't. So we saw improvement in memory, cognitive function, oxidative total oxidative capacity, glutathione. So lots of great things when we supported the mic, the gut microbe, Flora. And here's another study. She's looking at 12 weeks of intervention, and they found that after 12 weeks of intervention with probiotics, there was improvement in sleep quality and cognitive function with the control then compared to the control group, showing that the underlying mechanism was associated with change in my intestinal micro flora, microbiota. What about sleep for dementia? So we know that sleep is so important, but we don't know why we sleep. I'm going to talk about that in a second, because this is interesting, but we know sleep so important, sleep disturbances are common in dementia, especially in Lewy body dementia, insomnia is a prodrome to dementia. So if you have a patient that comes to you and says, I'm suddenly getting dementia, I'm not dementia, I'm suddenly getting insomnia, and you've been a little bit worried about their cognitive health, definitely, that should be a red flag that's going off for you.

Speaker 4  1:06:19
Sleep deprivation increases amyloid plaques. It's been linked to memory and cognition issues and mood anxiety, but our current treatment doesn't really do all that much for us. So what we've actually found that when it comes to sleep and dementia, behavioral approaches might be the most important thing. Now I put menopause in a question mark here, because when I I treat a lot of patients in menopause, perimenopause, and the two biggest things that most of them are coming to me for might be hot flashes and sleep. So if we can support them, then you know, their late 40s or early 50s, think of how much we can be helping the brain. Also, sleep apnea is a big piece of it that looking at the vasculature of the brain. So studies are showing us that behavioral approaches seem to be what's giving the most benefit. So our sleep hygiene, no alcohol, decreasing caffeine, decreasing water consumption before sleep. So people aren't going to have to go to the bathroom all night. For a lot of people working out, it lets them have a better sleep, social engagement, and that early morning bright light therapy. So there's actually been mixed benefit when it comes to a lot of other interventions for sleep. So melatonin shows to improve sleep by about 20 to 30 minutes, only others sedating antidepressants like travisone, maybe by about 42 minutes. But with, but with mirtazapine, there has been no significant sleep benefits shown, and it did increase daytime drowsiness, hypoxic benzodiazepines, you know, really used sparingly in the elderly, because the risks of sedation falls and cognitive decline. What about stimulants for people? What because they're tired during the day, not recommended, in general for dementia. And so really, the conclusion was that behavioral interventions and selected use of melatonin showed the most promise. So let's just go back for a moment to the whole How did we get here, and are we dogmatic in what we tell people, why do we sleep? About 1015, years ago, we learned about the glial theory, the the glial theory and how when we sleep, this is when we detoxify our brain. So we all think that we when we sleep, we detoxify our brain, and that's the main reasons for sleep. Well, here's a study published in 2024 that says no, contrary to popular to previous hypothesis, sleep did not enhance but rather decrease bait brain clearance. So these findings challenge the idea that one of sleep's primary functions is to clear brain toxins. So that just blows away all of the thoughts that we've had for the longest time. So if we look at the study a little bit more. Earlier research was based on observation. So what they did was, earlier, they took dye and they they injected it into Wait, have it really here. So earlier, what they did was it was based on the observation. The dye injected into cerebral spinal fluid, penetrated deeper into the brain during sleep. So they interpreted this to mean that this deeper penetration meant that it was moving faster during a sleep state. So that's why we slept, to make this all happen faster. This time, they did direct measurement. So directly measuring the clearance, and what they found that was that it actually slowed down and so more accumulated, so they were able to actually isolate the clearance process. So does this mean we don't know why we sleep? We don't know why we sleep? Maybe, maybe it's still to detoxify. This was one study they did repeat it twice or a couple of different times. So keep your eyes out for that. So maybe the whole, maybe there'll be a whole new study coming out on why we actually sleep. So we still don't know, in my opinion, but we do know that Poor Sleep is Linked to higher amyloid proteins in the brain. Does sleep activate the lymphatic system to help us detoxify? Maybe, but we're not going to get dogmatic about it, now that we know the research is contrary out there. Melatonin may prevent neuron loss and help cognitive impairment. How much should we be sleeping more than seven hours, but less than eight and a half. We really want to make sure we get some great dental hygiene, brush and foster teeth. The gingivitis bacteria increases interleukin six, so increases inflammation, supplement with Omega three. Treat for different risk factors, make sure your vitamin Ds are good, know your risk and do what else? Other different theory therapies you know out there to support mitochondria, oxidative stress. So my clinic, I have a whole biohacking clinic where I have everything from Pulse electromagnetic frequency to red light to hydrogenated oxygen. So there's a little slide you guys can just look at, looking at different practical recommendations and lifestyle modifications. We can talk about that after, and that's me, so thank you all so much. I will open it up to questions now, and we kept to our one hour.

Speaker 5  1:11:32
That was excellent. Yeah, thank you much.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:36
Thank you so much.

Speaker 4  1:11:39
You're welcome. I do, actually, I know William You said I could mention a something at the end.

Speaker 4  1:11:51
So one of the things that I do have is I do have, like, a co brain VIP program where people can come in and we do all the different testing in the clinic, I do IV therapy, all of the different interventions we talked about, and give patients a full roadmap with takeaway biohacking devices, I guess you could say, to really improve their brain memory and focus.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:13
So,

Speaker 6  1:12:15
yeah, yeah, that was a I think we have a lot of questions about your devices here, but later on, let's go on with the I think Dr Bill goes for the chats first.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:27
There's really only one question that was about liposomal glutathione.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:32
Yeah, what was the question

Unknown Speaker  1:12:35
your what's your opinion

Speaker 4  1:12:38
of it? So I love glutathione. I think it's super, massively beneficial. I do IVs in my clinic, so that's generally the way that we'll do it. But I will have people do liposomal in between, depending on what's going on with them.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:52
What about the N acetylcysteine as a substitute?

Speaker 4  1:12:58
Yeah, I love mac I don't do that IV, I could, but I don't think it does the exact same. I do love NAC, especially when it comes to like nerve support, which I like glutathione for too, but I'll often go to glutathione a little bit more when it comes to detoxification, and depending on how I feel, the pathways are going. But definitely, I love both of them for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:22
Okay, everybody in the chat, there's the link for the CME credits. If you want to just click the link, it's $30 to AMA category one CME credits. You didn't know you were this important. Dr deck, and okay, that's the only chat question I have so. Dr Nario,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:59
are you? Can anybody? Hear me?

Unknown Speaker  1:14:05
Yeah, I can hear you. Fine. Everything's been

Unknown Speaker  1:14:07
about. Dr naori, I can't hear him. Oh, good.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:14
He's muted.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:20
Uh. Dr Nario, you're muted,

Unknown Speaker  1:14:27
so Okay, till we get his attention.

Speaker 7  1:14:33
Well, I wanted to just say this was a fantastic lecture. I really enjoyed it. And one question I had was, you know, we've had ladies on oral contraceptives for decades, and I was wondering if you knew of any studies that really started to look at any of the impact of that on dementia or, you know, the estrogen story in the menopausal, post menopausal ladies.

Speaker 4  1:15:08
Yeah, that's a really interesting topic. And I definitely we saw the studies on somebody doing like, hormone replacement, so getting the estrogen and the progesterone, typically, when we look at, you know, the contraceptives, it's often high dose progestin, and, if any estrogen, very low dose estrogen. So I think it would almost be that we are not getting the estrogen at like effect, just to be supportive of the brain in people that have been on birth control pill. So I think that it's actually going to show up, that it's going to be detrimental.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:40
Okay, let's look at these numbers, about

Unknown Speaker  1:15:46
12 point 7 million people in the

Speaker 6  1:15:47
well, were you guys talking about hormones? I missed that. There's a question here for you about hormones. Go for it. So it was actually the so I'm sure you're familiar with the the window, right? The 10 year window. So after starting, I mean, that will be your best benefit that you will get from hormone therapy. But the controversy there is starting estrogen post 10 year window in terms of cognitive, cognitive decline, that is one of the bigger applications that was being a big controversy out there. Why do you don't want to start it. What is your what are your thoughts on that?

Speaker 4  1:16:26
So I sit down and I talk with the risk and benefits to all of my patients. And so the whole idea goes back to the estrogen receptors as well, right? So you're going to start losing those estrogen receptors as you don't have estrogen, right? Just like the picture I showed with the the animals and the shade. If there's no trees, there's not going to be any animals to try to get shade eventually, and so at a certain time, we just don't even have the estrogen receptors in the same way that we did before. I don't think that the research is really out there yet to in depth, to conclusively say I do feel more cautious starting anybody out of that 10 year window. So definitely I'm trying to get people that are, you know, just just about to hit it. I like to start just before we hit menopause, because we know we have the bone protective effect that there's that three year window right from, you know, one and a half years before and one and a half years after, where we get the biggest get the biggest bone benefits. So I do love it when I can get ladies in at that time. Typically after 60, I often won't start estrogen, just because we do. We do have to look at all the risks, and I want to make sure that the patient in front of me feels completely secure in what we decide to do. But sometimes, if they're just at 60 or just past the window, we might

Speaker 6  1:17:44
well one of the consensus of the A for M faculty here is, really, yes, it has to be in caution. The thing that we do there is, it has to be, if you're going to be doing it, you have to explain this to the patient in terms of cognitive decline. And you're right. The studies, really right now, initially, are on mice that cognitive decline has been seen after introduction of estrogen. The the thing there is the rule, if they do miss the window, start slow and even low doses on these patients, and you have to monitor their not only their cognitive functions, but also the metabolic aspects of health. That's when we, when you discuss that brain function is dependent on so many metabolic and endocrine factors as well. So yes, and on our end, just do it safely. I mean, of course, it's not for the faint of heart. It has to be for, I guess, seasoned practitioners. But this is something in consensus with what we we've been talking about in the faculty, but yeah, anyway, another one would be, this was about your daughter. How did you thought about the diagnosis of pandas on her?

Speaker 4  1:18:54
So I'll be honest, those were dark, dark days for me. So I I would barely go into the clinic, and I started canceling all of my appointments that I had, and then I realized that. So it was one that I didn't cancel, which was one of the reps who was also a friend of mine, and it was actually her who just looked at me and she goes, Debbie, your daughter has pandas. Go get her tested. And like, thank you. Barb Weiss, because. And the funny thing was, a year earlier, I had been at a conference focusing on autism and anxiety in kids, because that was my focus. And then they started talking about pandas, and I stopped listening, because I'm like, Oh, I don't want to talk about infection. I'm about mental health. And like, what a kick in the face, right? Because really, it's all about brain health and how connected is inflammation, is infection? But I, I honestly didn't, didn't know at the time,

Speaker 3  1:19:45
was this an IgG antibody? You did to find it?

Speaker 4  1:19:50
So with her, we did. We actually, we did. We did a strep test. We actually, we did a strep test, and it came back positive, even though it had been two months after. And we did some testing, but I was, I was in the beside myself phase, so then we put her on antibiotics, and, like, I said, like, it just, just like that. So I did get, we did some testing, but at the time it was, we would have to fly to the states. Really difficult to get a lot of that

Speaker 8  1:20:17
done. I can tell you what I do, I treat pandas and pans, actually, and you're so, right. Pandas has been around since, I mean, for eons. Pandas was, you know, in the 1990s we knew about it. And now there's pans, which is pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric syndrome, which is because, you know, since back in 90s, you know, all just strep was causing the problem, but now all kinds of bugs are doing the same thing. And so even even on my I just did my child psych boards a year or two ago, you know, redid them. And even on the psych boards, child boards, there were three questions on pants, so not even just pandas. And you would not believe how many doctors are still like even now don't even really acknowledge pandas, let alone pans. But you know, the biggest thing is when you have, you know, psychiatry, mental illness, does not happen overnight. That's the biggest thing when you have a child or a person, because now it's our immune systems are for crap. So everybody's, I mean, I have, I even had a 54, year old who developed, basically, it was pans, because he had, he started out with some soft neurologic signs, and then came into the ER, full blown psychotic. And I'm like he, he was a little bit he was 54 he was mentally a little bit low functioning. Maybe was on the spectrum at one point, but he lost. But other than that, you know, he, he was fine, he had maybe a little anxiety. You don't go psychotic overnight. And basically it's a delirium. So you have to the, really, the high, the high index of suspicion, when you have somebody who has, you know, has been fine their whole life, and then instantly, overnight, develop some type of a psychotic or or, actually, it's not even it used to be just OCD, for anybody who doesn't really know pandas, you know pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorder associate with strep. It used to be just strep, so kids would come down with strep, and then within a certain amount of time, like a month or so later, overnight, they would develop this like debilitating OCD. We would treat it for you, treat it for a month with an antibiotic, and it goes away. So it was pretty easy back then, but now it's all kinds of bugs. So you just, you know, you have to have that, you know, index of suspicion. And then the testing that I do, just because nobody else can give me a better test, you know, they argue with me about, well, that test isn't very, you know, accurate. So I do the antibody tests on all the, you know, I check for all the different I have an entire infection panel, because mycoplasma pneumonia, does it? You know, we all know about EBV, Epstein Barr does a lot of you know, triggers a lot of things, but all I mean, Coxsackie, like HHV six is a big one here. I'm in New Jersey HHV six and Coxsackie sweets. Yes, you can do that. Sorry. My son's half naked, but so I just do the antibody tests. And yes, like I said, they're not very specific, but when I have high numbers, my antibodies and I have symptoms, and I treat them with an anti viral, anti bacterial, anti parasitic, whichever. And the numbers come down and the symptoms come down, that means something. And until you give me a better test, that's all I've got. So, you know, I try to use what I can, and, and, and this thing has gotten so bad, I'm seeing, I'm seeing lives literally destroyed by this illness. These illness is, is absolutely

Speaker 4  1:24:25
destroying. And one thing that you mentioned that it doesn't happen overnight, but you get gas lit in the community, so especially when the kids are young. So even my husband was like, Oh yeah, she's she's got anxiety. And I'm like, wow, she's got a little bit of anxiety, like, because he's like, Yeah, I remember when she was two, and you would leave the house and she would cry and cry, and then, like all kids do that, when their moms cry like this is not a panda symptom, but the doctors, the psychiatrist, the psychologist, because we saw them all totally had him believing that she was in the 95th percentile of anxiety. And I, as a person, a practitioner focusing on anxiety, just didn't notice, right, right? And then imagine if she had been seven or six when she was diagnosed, then maybe I would, you know, should be living in my basement to this day, not being able to leave the house on now, every anti psychotic medication, antidepressant out there. And

Speaker 8  1:25:20
now and now the, you know, it's not just the OCD, because in back in the 90s, it was just OCD. But now, I mean, I've even had just insomnia, just like a depression. And I see, I see a lot of people there, they don't follow the book. So there's even, it's so funny, because some people, some doctors, are, you know, think outside the box, but only to a limit, to a certain degree. So I've seen people with all different kinds of symptoms that, again, it's something that starts, you know, pretty suddenly. Again, I say overnight, but, you know, pretty suddenly. And it can be from, you know, it can be all different kinds of symptoms, but if they don't fit in those boxes right, and if they don't fit in the right boxes, and it can't possibly be that, but, yeah, it's, it's pretty scary. Sorry. I just, yeah, sorry about that. That's my that's one of my passions. So Oh,

Speaker 6  1:26:21
Doctor stone, you should probably share that to us in one of the the webinars. Maybe we can have a session for you. We

Bill Clearfield  1:26:29
haven't bothered you in a while. Doctor stone, so the New Year is coming.

Speaker 4  1:26:34
Her new thing is she just became anaphylactic to the cold. And we live in Canada, so maybe, Doctor stone, you can help me figure that one out, what to do. Oh, wow,

Unknown Speaker  1:26:42
that's that sounds. Yeah. That's,

Speaker 6  1:26:48
well, Debbie, in relation to your, I think you mentioned about the brain being, of course, turning burning up with the white matter, right as you turn into, like, with the hot flashes and menopausal so are you promoting more of a ketogenic diet during menopause, or is there a specific diet that you prefer? Yeah, so

Speaker 4  1:27:09
I do find the ketogenic diet really fascinating. If people can handle it and sustain it, I'd find that. I find it's a tall ask for a lot of people women in that phase. So typically, we just do more of a Mediterranean

Speaker 6  1:27:28
ketogenic, right? It's just a little harsh, is that we're saying on them.

Speaker 4  1:27:33
I find that when we look at menopausal women, typically they're coming in in the sandwich generation. They're looking after their parents. They're looking after their kids. Their level of stress is so high that they're not usually. I find that amenable to doing an extreme diet

Speaker 6  1:27:54
like keto. That makes sense. There's a lot of stress going on, menopause and menopause, and now you add diet to that also,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:01
let me see, let me help you

Speaker 4  1:28:03
like, don't get me wrong. We do. We do do like. We do talk about diet, and we are pretty strict about cleaning things up and getting rid of, you know, processed food and complex carbohydrates and and increasing the fat substantially and increasing the protein substantially. But, and I so I'll start with paleo or Mediterranean and see how they do with that. Because I do because, yeah, getting rid of that insulin resistance is usually a top priority,

Speaker 6  1:28:30
right? Well, since you mentioned Mediterranean, which has a lot of omegas to it, here's a practical question, I guess, why do Omega three index when I can just give my patients Omega fish oils. That's

Speaker 4  1:28:43
what I mentioned. I don't ever, I don't really do the test because so I did mention that. I said I put it up here just for completion sake, and if you have a patient who loves it and needs to see it, but I think I've only even talked about it to one or two patients, because I just put them on the Omega three. I say, You know what? It's going to cost you, like, $150 to do the test. It's going to cost you $40 to take the supplement. And I'm going to tell you to take it regardless. So just take it.

Speaker 6  1:29:09
Could you mention about a five grams was your recommendation? Is that we

Speaker 4  1:29:13
did not say anything actually, out loud. So I, depending on where they're at, I think five grams can be great, if you can get them to go that go that high. Sometimes, if they're really in a bad place, I'll say, just take as much as you can. Take it into like your you don't as long as your stomach's not hurting. So and then we can see if we need to add something like cooling in if we get transported into the cell. So I say, like, you know, let me know if your stool gets greasy, but it go up if you if you if your stomach doesn't hurt and you can take that amount, then great. You're

Speaker 6  1:29:44
not worried about bleeding at all when Omegas are involved.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:49
I have not seen it, have you? Not

Speaker 6  1:29:52
really. I mean, I don't go high as five. I my max would be usually at three. But yeah,

Speaker 4  1:29:59
yeah, many more past, like two and a half to three?

Speaker 6  1:30:03
Yeah, it's really more of what the literature had mentioned about AFib going towards that four or five. That's more of the cardiovascular effects. But I again, none of this had happened to my patients, so I can't really vouch for it.

Speaker 4  1:30:19
Yeah. I mean, if somebody's on any kind of blood thinner, then I'm always very cautious about any kind of, you know, any intervention, I'll say to them, you know, any intervention we give you is going to make your blood thinner, but anything healthy is going to do it really. So, yeah. So typically, I'll start people on, you know, two grams, and then we'll sort of maybe go up to three, but I, I sometimes take five grams, right?

Speaker 6  1:30:46
Sure. I mean, again, you have the experience. You've done it. That's, that's, there are your patients are okay, right? So I think some of the questions here about your fantasy, schmancy clinic, you have all these technologies that you you showed up, like your EEG brain scan. How does that work? Like, yes, they're just out of curiosity of a question. So, so

Speaker 4  1:31:11
it's, it's like a cap, and so it's reading different brain waves. So it's called the p3 100. So it provokes signals, so they hear a sound, and then they push a button at that time and they're able, so it looks at the amount of energy that the brain can put out. So it's a great thing to do to get a baseline, especially if then your kid plays rugby or any kind of thing, and we might get a concussion, because we know we send people back to play too early a lot of the time. And so this gives us a definitive way to actually measure what's going on with the root brain, versus just a study, a test. It looks at the theta weights, so we can see your tendency towards ADHD. It looks at your alpha beta balance, so we can see anxiety, depression. And then, even without the scan on, we're having them do those the little testing, so a simple task, then making it more complicated, and we're able to see how what they can store that memory. And again, biggest thing for it is to get a baseline and then use it as a tool to make changes. Is

Speaker 6  1:32:10
there similar to Dr Amon, what he was using? Or this is different?

Speaker 4  1:32:14
So I it's not similar to Dr amons. Like Dr amons is, you know, the cream of the crop that we're getting, like a PET scan, where they're actually being able to see what's going on in different parts of the brain when you're doing different tests. So there was a time where I actually sent patients to Dr Amon that were really difficult to figure out to get the scans done, but it's really expensive, but no Dr amons is, you know, above and beyond that for sure, right?

Speaker 6  1:32:38
What about your nan VI, is that another device that you showed there? Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:32:44
so nano V is like hydrogen. It's it's hydrogenated water, so you're breathing it in. And this is probably one of my favorite devices when it comes to brain health. So what it does, it helps with mitochondrial folding, or protein folding. It helps with mitochondrial function, so decreasing, so not just decreasing oxidative stress, but really helping that whole pathway, the signaling pathway. I had a patient who had a stroke, and after her stroke, she lost the ability to write. And so she read about it. There's only four or five in Ontario. So she came to try it out, and after using it for about four or five times, she could write again. And then people always say, Well, how often do I have to do it? And you know, what's really we never know for sure. She knew, because she would start to lose the ability, then she would come in and she'd be able to do it again. So, you know, she bought her own so haven't seen her that much since then, but I've had patients get more words if they have autism. I've had help with sleep, anxiety, depression. I find it's one of my it's one of my favorite.

Speaker 6  1:33:43
So you inhale this. It's like a nasal.

Speaker 4  1:33:46
I actually have it sitting beside it's eight o'clock. It's it's 930 here. So it's this little device right here. And, yeah, so right now I have it on this, but you can actually use a nasal. Usually, I'll give it to patients with an nasal cannula, so they're breathing it in.

Speaker 6  1:34:03
Okay, gotcha, well, cool stuff. You got there, and I saw the, well, they saw the binaural beats. I think you're about the brain tap. Is that? Is that correct? Yeah. So you're doing this all at the same time with the patient, or this is just one,

Speaker 4  1:34:16
depending on however well they are, and depending on if this is their main focus. So like I talked about the CEO brain where, you know, you can come in and it's a VIP day, and we do all these things, but so I've been using these things. Like even before I was focusing on just the brain. So, you know, I kind of traveled the world saying, you know, why did people go to Germany for a month? Because I did focus on cancer in the beginning. Why did people go? So I went to Germany to learn what they do. And then I brought things back that seemed beneficial. So I initially got the Nano V because it showed a decreased double stranded DNA breaks by 30% in Olympic Olympic athletes because they were creating so many DNA strand DNA breaks. And I was like, Wow, if I can prevent my patients from getting cancer, how awesome would that be? And then, so I wasn't even really focusing on the brain at that time, because this is, oh, like, 15 years ago, 12 years ago, I was focusing on the brain, but not mental decline. It was more mental health. But I had a huge focus on cancer at the time, and that's when I even had the patient who had the stroke, and, you know, I saw the benefits to it, because really, it's one of those things, like red light, you know, like, does it help this? That the next thing? And the answer is always yes, because it's at the mitochondrial like, it's helping with at the mitochondrial level. And so yes, it's going to help with everything.

Speaker 6  1:35:31
Well, I do agree with you. Just in Germany recently, and I also saw these, like fancy gadgets that you're talking about. So you hardly can find some of these in the US, but, yeah, you got some good stuff going on there. And here's a I don't know if you're aware of this one. This isn't probably a question that's something new about Alzheimer dementia therapy. TB, 006, are you feeling familiar with this? No, okay, so I am familiar with this. It's true binding, as we call it, and it's an IV that they give. It's a monoclonal antibody, and it actually binds to galectin Three. And they have this theory that the lectin three, it's known for more cardiovascular disease fame, made famous by Dr Isaac Elias, I think, and now it was actually known to be in cancer, cardiovascular diseases. And now it's going to be one of the bigger a for M is coming up, and they're probably putting this out there, but it's actually going to be lowering down galectin Three in the brain, where all of these top proteins kind of tangle up and accumulate and they produce these the misfolding the misfoldings there. And recent trials has been conducted in like, I think a four week study, who got infusions for this, for patients who had actually mild to severe dementia. And all of these patients improved through MMSE. I think testing, they got a baseline and then after the therapy. So I think this is new, and it was, yeah, I think they were just up to speed with the with the in terms of the the newer therapies, it's a monoclonal antibody, it's synthetic, and it's not a natural therapy, but great talk. And you, I guess, cross out all my questions from the email. Thank you so much. Nice. Thank you

Bill Clearfield  1:37:16
really fab. Can I two questions for you that I have have you. So we've had Ross Pelton on. I don't know if you're familiar with him, but he's been touting postbiotics. Familiar with that at all. And he states that probiotics are not, as if not effective, unless they you have prebiotics with them, and then something called postbiotics. I'm still a little fuzzy about it, but he was very emphatic about that. You have any, any

Speaker 4  1:37:47
So what exactly is a post biotic?

Bill Clearfield  1:37:51
I'm not really sure. So I was hoping you might. Dr Nario, do you have any, any any insight? I got some because he was very emphatic about it, but yeah,

Speaker 6  1:38:04
his lecture about the post bionic, let me just get my memory back in. There

Unknown Speaker  1:38:10
anybody else?

Speaker 3  1:38:11
Yeah? Well, there was something that mentioned at the Rome conference that I took away so they can pasteurize akermansia. And is, apparently it works even better than the live acromans. Yeah, for the benefits, maybe that's what they mean by post like post mortem bacteria.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:31
Somebody asked if they were the metabolites of the microbiome.

Speaker 6  1:38:35
Yes, I understand they're like the butyrate, right? The propionate, so those are the things that actually gets produced after bacteria digests, like, for example, fiber. So, and we do have, again, proven, butyrate does help with with the 4r program. So, yeah, I don't, I don't recall that lecture. Maybe I don't know if I was not listening to doctor.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:00
We might, we might have to re, re Look at that. Okay, so my other question going back to the 10 year window with, with on the, you know, the post menopausal use of hormones. And so I've been doing hormone replacement for 25 you know, plus years, and we pretty much ignored a lot of that noise. You know, if a 70 year old post menopausal female shows up at my in my office with osteoporosis and still having menopausal symptoms, I mean, from I'm going to tell her, no, you know, we're not going to we're not going to treat you. Sorry. Go home. I mean, that doesn't make any sense to me. I mean, I've had 90 year old, you know, women that we've, that we've treated, we go low doses. I mean, we don't go, you know, the full monty. But, I mean, I don't understand the, you know, you know, if you have a cardiac, you know, coronary artery disease. We're going to tell you what. We'll treat you for 10 years. But then after that, sorry, you're on your own. I don't, I don't get it. So if you have any thoughts on that, or, I mean, what would you do? 70 years old, never had hormones. Shows up, osteoporosis, sometimes, still having hot flashes, can't sleep, and, you know, is agitated and irritable all the time. I mean, what do we do? Send her home say, you know, goodbye.

Speaker 4  1:40:32
Oh, me. I mean, a lot of doctors will right, you're on the I definitely had patients at 60. I had one patient at 60, joint issues, memory decline. Mother had dementia at 59 Her doctor said, should think about it at 60. And she suddenly said, No, you're too old now, right? And so, like a lot of doctors do, turn them away. So I put her on hormones, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:55
Yeah. What about at 70?

Speaker 4  1:40:59
You know what I go through the risk benefits with each patient, go through the risk benefits with each patient, and really decide, and at 70, there definitely might be some benefit. So start low, start slow, and then sort of assess,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:12
well, we've learned to do that, you know, with everybody anyway. So Okay, all right,

Speaker 6  1:41:19
80 year olds really, yeah, it's always a yes. I mean, again, it's just really, how, how low you really want to start with these patients. I was surprised about this 80 year old. I thought I was going to be seeing her for something else, but she just came through the door, kick it. Probably kicked it through, through the clinic, and hey, I want my estrogen. I read good things about it. Alright, let's do some testing. And I never deprived this lady of that. And she has a boyfriend, so she needs her that's what she told me.

Speaker 3  1:41:52
I mean, what's one of the leading causes of deaths in the hospital? In these elderly folks, it's it's UTIs, and it's sepsis. And in women, we can regenerate that your genitary tract with intravaginal suppositories of hormones. So I'm 8090 I mean, if they're having these issues, they should be fixed. I

Speaker 4  1:42:11
agree intravaginal is different, because also you could be doing different types of estrogen too. And also, like, how systemic does it go?

Speaker 6  1:42:21
Yeah, I like the intravaginal DHEA. I get a lot of really quick results with that. But, yeah, that's true. All is there definitely anything testosterone can be done? So, so many options, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:34
so Okay, well, I'm glad I'm not the only one out, at least on this call. So anybody else have any comments or questions? If not? Debbie, thank you so much. You're fabulous. It's great hearing about you know all the things that you're doing. I hope you'll join us, if you'll allow us to add you to our email list. We're here every Tuesday night, at five o'clock Pacific, eight o'clock, your time. I know it's it's getting late there, so we'll let you know. Please

Speaker 4  1:43:10
join please add me. That would be fabulous. This was great. Great getting to know you as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:14
We're here. We're here every week and but coming up Christmas Eve, and New Year's Eve is Tuesday night, and I'm taking off. So if anybody wants to run, run, run the program, let me know. If not, it'll be i. I've taken one Tuesday night off. So we've been here since October of 2020, I've had one Tuesday night off. No two. I guess one was a fourth of July and one I was visiting my grandkids. So but other than we've been here, I've been here every Tuesday night at this time, so next week, we have forget his name. Al Sanchez. Is his name? Dr Nario, yeah. So it's Holly. MVV, MVA, yep. So those of you are familiar with it, great. And if those of you who are not, we're going to find it another tool for your toolbox. Okay, so Dr Debbie, that was this was fabulous. Everybody the AMA credits go to the link right there. I put them in every week if we were eligible for being accredited. When you get your email, all the ones, all the way back to April, there was a couple of months where the the accrediting agency was having some issues. But all the ones, there's probably about 15 lectures we've had that have CME credits. So if you need CME credits. It's $30 you get two ama CME credits. I'm still looking into AOA, but you know how we get along, so not too hopeful. I'm gonna have to find somebody else and and fade into the background there. So, so if you're, if you're looking perplexed, dr, dr Dr smers, we got canceled by the AOA. They throw us out, or they throw me out anyway. So we have we arm wrestle with them all the time. So again, thank you so much. Everybody. Have a great holiday. I hope to see you back. We'll be here again next week, same time, same station, and if anybody has anything to present, Dr Hartman, yeah, let us know. And and we'll, we'll be back. And it's great to see anybody. Hey, John, you've been quiet all night.

Speaker 5  1:45:40
How are you? That's because everything's good. I'm getting better, and I'm just excited about all this stuff that we're doing. It's happening,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:48
okay? And Dr Tano, you're still on. Can you give us a brief word? So we, we've, we've started a research team.

Speaker 5  1:45:59
We've been doing the research thing. Dr Tanu is the publisher in the crew, so he does deals with ethical content distribution, and he's also dealing with some really cool stuff with publishing. So we're working closely with him and a couple of guys, Stefan, I think also was going to run over a few things with him, and anyway, we're putting all that stuff in the research, into document, documentary format. So that's why we're doing it, cheap, simple, efficient, fast.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:36
Yeah, I know the we've had some some some inquiries about our videos. So all of our videos are up on our on our website or on the YouTube channel under my name, well half of them on the YouTube channel, some of them we had to pull off, you know, because we're, by the way, we're disinformation YouTube. So I'm proud of it too, proud of.

Speaker 5  1:47:01
It's really it's a great, fast, efficient way of learning, and you can get information fast. It's pretty incredible. And if we put this and you get what we're doing with the research committee, too, is putting together a compendium, and that will be dealing with all the nutraceuticals, and that's going to be a big deal content. So

Bill Clearfield  1:47:24
it'd be great to have it all cataloged. Anybody wants to join? I mean, it's not an exclusive group. If anybody's interested, please get in contact with myself or doctor Burgess or doctor Tanno. They meet Saturday mornings at at noon, Eastern Time,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:42
noon

Bill Clearfield  1:47:44
Eastern and, you know, again, online. So anybody who's interested in that, let me know, or let Doctor Cano know, or Dr Burgess, and we'll, we'll hook you up with them. And you know, everybody's welcome. So, so and so, you know, we're still doing great things, and I can't wait for next year see what next year is going to going to bring So, but next week, we're going to learn about poly MVA. So. Dr Smurfs, thank you so much. I really appreciate it.

Speaker 4  1:48:14
I'll say goodbye, yes. Please add me to the list

Bill Clearfield  1:48:20
down. Dr smirs through Dr zerin and, and I thought that was a great talk. It's really, you know, kind of amazing. Some of the things that she does, she, she, she should hook up with Dr Hartman here, who's also got a lot of cool gadgets. Yeah, and, and our and our and that. Too bad. Dr Siegel isn't on, you know, our veterinarian, because she's got a lot of cool gadgets for pets. Yes, me, I'm just, I'm just a hormone guy. I don't do anything fancy. I just, so it pretty straightforward.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:57
So just basics, you know,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:00
any questions or anything they want to bring up before we leave. If not everybody have a great holiday, you know, stay well. And there's a DR McCullough has a line of pre Pro and post biotics. I got the one that Dr that that Dr Pelton mentioned we have them in the office now that Dr poor is with the two H's, pre and post biotics. So that's the one we've been using. I'm gonna have to go back and re revisit what he said about it. I'm a little fuzzy about it. And you know why this is the greatest thing since sliced bread. I've been, I've been studying with some actually, there's an outfit called functional nutritional diet. Diet that is like, they're, they're, they're dietitians, FDN, and so I've been, I've been attending some of their their issues, and they actually break down specific bacteria, probiotic bacteria, for specific GI and brain issues, so it'll use so Again, that's a little bit too too sophisticated for me, but we'll figure it out. So okay, are you going

Speaker 6  1:50:26
to meet a company called flora in in a 4m they actually personalize deficient strains in your gut and put everything in a capsule. So that's where it's going. Now,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:40
okay, yeah. I mean, 15 years ago I had, I had this bright idea that I was going to do a micro, micro nutrient test and then, and then make a, you know, a supplement specifically for that person. But it got to be like, six to $800 a month. So that was a little bit of in practical, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:00
sounds like my supplement program.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:03
Yeah. Is that what yours goes for six to $800 a million.

Speaker 3  1:51:06
I mean, I take like, all these, like, twice daily. It's a lot of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:12
Does it help your tennis game? Yeah? No,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:14
it does,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:15
yeah. All right, well, and that's what's important.

Speaker 6  1:51:19
Hey, he's putting up his Christmas decor is already, you know, he has energy. No, that's

Unknown Speaker  1:51:23
my wife.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:25
I hope anybody you know, if you're coming to a for him, you know, it's always a good time to, yeah, no, I

Speaker 3  1:51:31
wanted to get you. We should get a program so we can, you can meet up, you know? You know, we always do it like last minute, and it's always confusing with halasa, we should make schedule it, you know.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:41
Okay, I think he's got something, something planned. I heard some rumblings. So are you going to be there?

Speaker 3  1:51:47
Yeah, we'll be there. Me, Logan, Jason will be there. Great. All

Bill Clearfield  1:51:52
right, okay. And Dr Nari, you're going to be there too, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:51:55
Yep, we'll be there. You guys, everybody?

Unknown Speaker  1:51:59
All right, so anybody try to coordinate with them.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:01
Yeah, make, make us. Make yourself known. And maybe we'll go to a couple classes too, I don't know. So see,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:09
come on.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:11
Okay, alright, everybody, have a great night and have a great holiday, and we will see you again next week. Happy

Unknown Speaker  1:52:17
Thanksgiving. Joel,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:19
thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai