Unknown Speaker  00:26
Hey Stefan

Bill Clearfield  00:33
you're muted.

Unknown Speaker  00:37
Hey, Dr. Bill.

Bill Clearfield  00:38
Yeah, I want to come to your your barbecue or whatever, whatever it is that you're running.

Unknown Speaker  00:44
Yeah, it'd be a good time come by this Friday. I mean Saturday.

Bill Clearfield  00:47
All right. I'll get on a plane now.

Unknown Speaker  00:51
Be a blast.

Unknown Speaker  00:52
So all right, well,

Bill Clearfield  00:55
can we be there virtually.

Unknown Speaker  00:59
It's going to be so hot. The laptop would overheat.

Bill Clearfield  01:01
It's been hot here. So it's been 100 degrees every day. So

Unknown Speaker  01:09
I don't know how you do it.

Bill Clearfield  01:10
Even though even though it's supposed to be dry. Well, last week I was in Vegas, so that's even worse. So you know, the VAT osteopathic medical association

Speaker 1  01:25
is there. You still interact with those people? Well,

Bill Clearfield  01:30
I mean, well, Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association. They're there for the most of the hierarchy is or us.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
Oh, it's different. Okay. Yeah, no,

Bill Clearfield  01:40
yeah. I mean, I still need do credits. You know for licensing so so that's why i They're like they're the white bread, medical people. They don't know anything. I just try my stuff out there. And that's my right. So if I got something new, so So, Mr. Doc, Mr. Dr. Pelton, here's what spurred me on to do my own lecture on rapamycin and longevity. So I tried it out at the Nevada osteopathic medical association that they're the they're the real doctors. You know, the guys who don't know anything. They did that and I did mold, mycotoxins so I went on after a gal who talked about chronic fatigue syndrome, and she didn't mention mold at all. In the whole hour, so he had mentioned Lyrica quite a bit but yeah, so but, but that's where I try my stuff out.

Speaker 2  02:47
So biomes the number one thing to detoxify mycotoxins Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:52
they don't know about that kind of stuff. Yeah, it doesn't come from if it doesn't come from Pfizer. It doesn't count. Yeah. Yeah. So so we've been I don't remember how many were on the last time you were on with us Ross. But we've we've acquired a huge big following in the Philippines. And last week, we had we had over 70 on the air. And I've made some some, some friends I got I had a gal she's been on a couple of times. She's got her own podcast. She's one of the biggest influencer one of the top influencers in New Zealand. And she did an interview with me she was on so we're amazing. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. You were on with her to a good lady. And then tomorrow night, I'm doing something with a guy named Brendan something he's in Australia. And, and he does talking with him too. Yeah. He deals mostly with natural paths. So I have a I have a lecture on hormone hormonal manipulation without using hormones. So well herbal remedies and vitamins and things like that. So

Speaker 2  04:05
you know you just mentioned some attendees will be from the Philippines.

Bill Clearfield  04:10
Someone tonight here, Sendak

Speaker 2  04:14
sample products to attendees but I don't think we're going to pay to ship things to the Philippines.

Bill Clearfield  04:21
So Dr. Malaria. Dr. Mueller is on she's she's one of our Filipino friends and Dr. Nereo is on his way with my one of my right hand, man. He's, he's been they're having a international alternative and conference next August 14 to 16th and my my, my sidekick, Dr. Nereo is there's their keynote speaker. He's on his way now. He's said he's in the in the in the LA Airport, you got diverted all over the place, but he'll be on tell me about it. I know. But last time I went to from AMG I ended up in Shreveport, Louisiana overnight and then my credit card got hacked and I paid for somebody's somebody in Mississippi's water bill for over $500

Unknown Speaker  05:14
You're doing a good deed and

Bill Clearfield  05:15
then three and then there were also three three charges to the TIC tock shop which I didn't even know there was no believe so. Yeah.

Speaker 1  05:31
I was gonna ask you, you're gonna go to the A for him this year.

Bill Clearfield  05:34
I'll probably go in December. Yeah. Okay, because you're close. It's easy for you. Yeah, it's only an hour away. So and the

Speaker 2  05:42
RAD fest conference in September in Anaheim.

Bill Clearfield  05:47
Okay, all right. Well, I got most of the time I only go if they're if they're having me speak because I hate paying for them anymore. That's that's kind of the bottom line is I really don't want to pay for pay to go to these conferences so it AMG and Salt Lake he gave me I thought he was going to leave me out this time. So but okay, I got Joel's on. Okay. Stefan, you want to be a co host to here just in case they fall asleep here. Get in here that good to hear that. Ross.

Speaker 2  06:27
I hope I don't have you fall asleep. I'm trying to keep we

Bill Clearfield  06:31
we thought we had a day and a half here today. So there's nothing to do with you. So my night when I when I got up i i accidentally hit the Home app and it froze everything and I couldn't couldn't unfreeze it for half a day and then when you do that, you can't run I couldn't write. I couldn't write prescriptions. I couldn't get into my medical records. All right. How's the weather there? Dr. Quinn, we always get the weather report. He's in Vegas.

Speaker 3  07:07
Oh how many ways can you spell hot

Unknown Speaker  07:13
Okay, so, so brutal.

Speaker 3  07:14
Jeez, man. That's why there's no shirt in case anybody's I don't wear a shirt anymore. It goes we gotta keep it to warm in the house because the bill runs over $600 a month for the bloody stuff. Can you believe that? No. And a house

Speaker 1  07:35
that I built for my office and I've got a sauna and a cold forage and an oxygen chain now he's crazy. Yeah,

Speaker 3  07:43
it really is. And so so we keep it believe it or not in the 80s indoors. Like my dad, if it gets too hot, it says just jump in the pool.

Bill Clearfield  07:56
Okay, Dr. Nereo. You're on your way to the Philippines.

Speaker 4  07:59
Yes, I just passed by Las Vegas. I know what Dr. Quinn was talking about. Was a stopover. We felt that he jumped out and gone to play. Super hot super hot over there.

Speaker 3  08:13
So how long is the flight now? What are you gonna do? Gonna

Speaker 4  08:17
be in LA now and it's going to be 12 hours. So I'll be losing days basically. Yeah. Got my melatonin though. Yeah, 20 milligrams.

Speaker 3  08:33
There you go. Hey, have you heard? Have you heard of the term ra dogging? Was that it's a term they're bantering about for men who go on airplanes, and just sit there. They don't get on their phones. They don't watch movies. They just sit there and just absorb it. Be quiet and maybe look out the window. Raw dogging.

Unknown Speaker  08:58
Say No way.

Unknown Speaker  09:01
I wouldn't suggest you do that for 12 hours though.

Unknown Speaker  09:05
Yeah, I'll be in a coma by then.

Unknown Speaker  09:10
Yeah, that's for sure.

Bill Clearfield  09:11
So while we give you what we usually do been doing Ross's with any any announcements, anybody has been any conferences, any any little little tips and tricks? So Dr. Nereo, and I think Dr. Dr. Malala? Is that her name? Yeah. Laura, you want to tell us about you're going to the Philippines for an alternative medicine. Soiree. Then you're the keynote speaker. Right? You're gonna make us I

Speaker 4  09:43
think, I don't know if they chose the right guy, but I'll be there. I'm on my way. Yes. So it's going to be out maybe hold on. There's some announcements here.

Bill Clearfield  09:56
Okay, so yeah, so whether they whether they picked the right guy or not. They got Dr. Nereo. In the in the

Speaker 3  10:07
so when you had to fly from Reno to Vegas, to

Speaker 4  10:12
pay per view, yeah. We had to connect. That's only what I got. So there could be but it was just the schedule that I had. I had to go to the office today. You still have to work. So But anyway, it's August, August. I think 1415 and 16. You're gonna be having a hearing revolution. It's gonna be speakers from different countries actually. There's a lot of people from Asian majority would be in all of them are actually practicing integrative medicine. So it's going to be almost like a forum as we celebrated here in Vegas. But this one is more of Southeast Asia, I guess. And it's my first time actually. So I'm really, really honored to be joining them over there. And I got all the goodies I've been practicing. So I hope everybody likes it. You have no choice. So you're gonna sit there for hours. Oh, there. Okay. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  11:13
How many have

Speaker 5  11:15
I heard? They're booking you for an interview with the news. Agency. Did you know that? Oh, yes. Work hard here. Ah, they're now fixing or arranging the schedule for you and we do hope that you can make a live interview before you live. You know,

Speaker 4  11:40
of course. Yeah. Anything to help pretty much. Yes.

Unknown Speaker  11:45
Thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  11:47
We're glad to have you Dr. Malaria. Thank you for being on these last few weeks. The other thing I need to let you go let everyone know is I don't know what happened with the CMD. Yeah, Dr. aulassa I've done what I needed to do and the last three or four weeks I just haven't gotten the the links for it. So I haven't been on his Stefan has been working for his group is the beginning them. So I hope we're not not getting a bum's rush.

Speaker 1  12:24
Last night we were there till like 1030 Almost 11pm I had to shut it off. They kept on talking. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  12:30
yeah. But they they were able to get the CME credits so the Lincoln owns that for us. The last three or four weeks he hasn't been hasn't gotten.

Speaker 1  12:39
No tomorrow late. Yeah, last night wasn't CME. They were just talking. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  12:44
Okay, so it's a bit a little after five. And we have a fair crowd will they'll still filter in? I said last week, we had 71 By the way, so which is pretty good. All Yeah, we had 71 last week and the week before that we had I think 50 Some. So it depends on the weather. It depends on the time of year too and and you know, even though we have a good speaker, you know, some time you know, it's vacation time and whatnot. So those of you don't know who we have tonight. This is Ross Pelton and Ross is is really one of the superstars of, you know, our movement really he's been doing this for a a long time, has many interests. He was on with us over about a month ago. We talked about longevity and rapamycin and he really piqued my interest. I actually have Scottson rapamycin and I've been peppering him with questions. About, you know, what's the proper protocols? What, what, you know, what's the what are the combinations, those kinds of things. And, and it's, it's really a fascinating subject. And it's, you know, part of kind of what we do and tonight I think, for us, who's going to talk to us about the microbiome, and but he's got all sorts of unique perspectives on it. So we're gonna let him introduce himself again, and we really appreciate you being here and take it away. Sure.

Speaker 2  14:23
Well, thanks everybody for your interest. Just a little about my background, and I my original career was pharmacy and that turns out to be one of the most repetitive boring careers I can think of typing labels and slapping counting pills and slapping labels on bottles hundreds of times a day. But along the way, I got interested in health and I've been passionate about the science and technology of anti aging and life extension for probably over 40 years now. For the last 12 years, primary professional focus for me has been on the human gut microbiome. So that's what I'm going to focus on tonight. And let me just share my screen here that see hear somebody give me the authority to share the screen here. It's see screens and I want to get down good habit.

Unknown Speaker  15:17
Share

Unknown Speaker  15:21
your

Speaker 2  15:24
make we're making it Okay, so for those of you that weren't on last time I was presented here I talked about rapamycin and there's an image of my book on the left hand part of the screen. I'm just showing images of two other books that I wrote. Back in 1999. I wrote the drug induced nutrient depletion handbook. Second edition came out in 2001. And I spent 20 years doing presentations to pharmacy groups and medical groups and health organizations talking about the drugs that are depleted by the nuclear, excuse me the nutrients that are depleted by the drugs that people take. And so that's the topic of that book. And when I wrote the drug induced nutrient depletion handbook I was astounded to learn that oral contraceptives deplete more nutrients than any other class of drugs. So that motivated me to write the pill problem which teaches women about the side effects from oral contraceptives and helps them learn how to prevent them or overcome them. For those that you that are interested in drug induced nutrient depletions, you can go online and get a free copy of my Quick Reference Guide for drug induced nutrient depletion is by just going to my website, natural pharmacists.net forward slash d i n d which is drug induced nutrient depletions. So topics I want to cover this evening, the human gut microbiome ecosystem. I'm going to talk about a two page paper I wrote titled The oral probiotic dilemma, which really provides the scientific explanation for why orally ingested probiotics don't work. Talk about the importance of broad spectrum post biotic metabolites. Elinor let's use that term and explain it. And I wrote a paper titled The microbiome theory of aging and I think Bill has a link to that that he can supply everybody else with everybody on line with and I really want to spend some time talking about the importance of diet and diversity, the diversity of diet in terms of creating a healthy gut microbiome and this process of fermentation to produce post biotic metabolites. So this little cartoon is kind of cute. Life is the only game in which the object of the game is learning the rules. If we apply this to health, it takes on a pretty significant meaning, because there's some pretty basic fundamental rules of health that people have to learn in order to lead a healthy lifestyle and I know I'm preaching to the choir here, but most of us myself included did not have good teachers and good role models when it comes to health. But the human gut microbiome is certainly one of the most critical health regulators that there is in the human body and people must learn about it in order to lead a healthy lifestyle and so prevent present information deceiving show you that most people are failing miserably at this. So I started with a deeper dive into the gut microbiome. It's important to understand that over 99.9% of the bacteria that reside in your gastrointestinal tract, reside in the colon. So that is really the site of action when we're talking about the gut microbiome. There's also an oral microbiome, and an ocular microbiome and a vaginal microbiome, but the real focus for this evening is on the colon and the gastrointestinal microbiome. It's also important to realize that over 70% of the body's immune cells are located in the gastrointestinal tract. So people have bacterial imbalance and gut inflammation. One of the first things that suffers is your immune system. So I'm sure you all are familiar with dysbiosis. I've just made a slide out of those because a lot of presentations I do in health food stores a lot of the employees don't understand dysbiosis the cause of dysbiosis which is a term umbrella term for bacterial imbalance in the gastrointestinal system. So bad bacteria are the cause. And the reason bad bacteria are bad is because their metabolic processes cause them to secrete substances that are highly inflammatory. And so here's the symptoms of dysbiosis. You're all familiar with those, a healthy gut microbiome but 85 to 90% good bacteria and only 10 to 15% potentially bad bacteria. Everybody has some bacteria that could potentially be bad. But when they only exist in small numbers, and the good bacteria vastly outnumber the bad bacteria. The bad bacteria aren't causing problems. It's when you get bacterial imbalance and there's so many things in the environment that causes toxins in the environment and overuse of antibiotics and so forth. And bad diet. I'll go into all those a little bit deeper, but that's what creates this bacterial imbalance which causes a lot of health problems. So I'm kind of on the leading edge of unraveling the mysteries of the gut microbiome. My paper that I wrote in was published in June of 2019 is titled, post biotic metabolites the new frontier in microbiome science. That's the first time a paper ever appeared in the scientific literature with the term post biotic metabolites in the title. So I'm trying to educate the world about how this gut microbiome and this these post biotic metabolites really work in our system. Second paper I wrote published in integrative medicine January 23. The microbiome theory of aging and that goes into more detail about all the steps that happen when you have bacterial imbalance and I'll talk about those steps in more detail as we go along. But we're understanding is that the job of your probiotic bacteria is to convert components in your food into a diversity of post biotic metabolites. Now, these post biotic metabolites are compounds that influence every single organ system. And so it's important to understand that it's not probiotic bacteria that regulate your health IT the compounds that bacteria create these post biotic metabolites. probiotic bacteria are certainly important, but they have to be able to produce these post biotic metabolites in order to really regulate your health the way they're supposed to. The latest statistics I could get from 2022, Americans spent about $17.4 billion on oral probiotic products. I'm going to try to convince you that most of that is wasted money. And here's why. I wrote a little two page paper titled The oral probiotic dilemma. It's the scientific explanation for why most oral probiotics don't work. There's three parts to the oral probiotic dilemma and the first part is stomach acid, is designed to kill at the frontline of your immune system. Stomach acid is anywhere from 10,000 to 100,000 times stronger acid than the acidity in the small intestine and colon. So most oral probiotics are gonna hit that stomach acid and be decimated. It's true that some probiotics are enteric coated. And there are some spore based probiotics that can survive gastric acidity, this still does not ensure that they're going to be effective and I'll talk about that in my next bullet points here. So dilemma number two is the small intestine also a very hostile environment for bacterial survival. We secrete bile acids and pancreatic digestive enzymes into the small intestine. Their job is to digest food. They'll destroy the cell wall and cell membrane of bacteria if they make it that far. And the third dilemma is, I think one of the most serious sins against mankind, or humankind in the history of the world. People eat crappy diets. And so it's important to understand that dietary fibers and Polyphenols are the two primary food groups for your probiotic bacteria. And they occur primarily in plant based foods. Fruits and vegetables are the primary sources. There's some polyphenols In fact, there's over 8000 polyphenols that had been structurally identified, but in addition to fruits and vegetables, there's some polyphenols and herbs and spices and salmon whole grains but the primary sources of these foods for your probiotic bacteria are fruits and vegetables. So the next two bullet points are a compilation of multiple studies that have been published. 90 to 95% of American children and adults do not meet the RDA. daily recommended allowance for fiber intake. Different studies report from 80 to 91% of Americans falls fall short in every color of phytonutrients consumption. So these are the polyphenols. So in these two bullet points, I hope you grasped that. Almost everybody in the United States is not consuming a diet that supports a healthy gut microbiome.

Speaker 2  24:44
You got anywhere from 100 800 to 1000 species of bacteria in your gastrointestinal system primarily in your colon I'd like to do an analogy between your gut microbiome and the Amazon rainforest, two of the most complex diverse ecosystems on the planet. In the Amazon, you've got 1000s of different species of insects and mammals and birds and reptiles. All those animals require different types of food. The different species of bacteria in your gut microbiome have different DNA. They're like different animals. They require different types of food, different types of fibers, different types of Foley for polyphenols, so it's critical that people ingest a diversity of plant based foods and almost nobody is doing that. So it's not just the quantity of dietary fibers and polyphenols that people aren't ingesting, but it's also the diversity. I tried to get people to understand the importance of eating a little bit of as many different types of fruits and vegetables every day as you can. Every time you eat. you're hosting a very large party, you're feeding 100 trillion guests. So here's the Standard American Diet this burger on the left, people are getting a little lettuce and a little tomato, maybe a little slice of onion. That's not a very wide diversity of polyphenol and dietary fiber containing foods. The image on the right commercial grocery stores, all of those packaged and processed foods. Americans are seriously lacking in the diversity of intake of these dietary fibers and polyphenols. Research published in the journal Nature food reports 73% of the US food supply is ultra processed food. And on average, ultra processed foods are 52% less expensive than healthy alternatives. So that's the story. That's what's really one of the primary reasons why so many people have gut problems, and it morphs into a wide range of systemic health problems. Here's one of my analogies between probiotics and the gut microbiome. I'm comparing it to a manufacturing plant in an automobile processing plant. So in your automobile manufacturing plant, you've got hundreds of workers, but they require 1000s of parts to build vehicles. The analogy in your gut microbiome, your probiotic bacteria are the workers but they have to have a diversity of the dietary fibers and polyphenols to produce the post biotic metabolites. So emphasizing the importance of balance and diversity. And using these analogies, again, in the automobile manufacturing plant, if you got 1000s of new workers coming into the plant, but they only have one skill like they can just put on windshield wipers that really messes up the balance and the diversity of the whole manufacturing plant. Similarly in the Amazon rainforest, if all of a sudden you put millions of new monkeys in the Amazon, that's gonna really mess up the balance and the diversity and ecosystem and it's the same and your human gut microbiome. People taking these high dose probiotics are working against balance and diversity. And Americans tend to think more is better. So this there's competition minds got 50 billion minds got 100 billion minds got 200 billion. These products are not providing the benefit that manufacturers lead them to believe. And many cases they're really working against balance and diversity is one study. I don't have my slide in here this tonight, but there's a study that was published saying high dose probiotics can actually cause your immune system to mount an alarm reaction is not that they're bad bacteria. It's just too much of one or several strains that throws things out of balance. Another analogy here, temperature versus acidity. We all know that temperature is a critical regulator of the environment for the health of plants and animals in humans. The analogy in the gut microbiome, its acidity, that is the critical regulator of the microbiome ecosystem. And the optimal acidity is from 6.2 to 6.8. You're all familiar with the pH scale, zero to 14, seven is neutral, so 6.2 to 6.8 is weakly acidic. So my question is, how do people achieve and how do people maintain this weakly acidic pH in the gastrointestinal ecosystem, which is the optimal pH to promote the growth and proliferation of probiotics? And that suppresses the growth of pathogens. Well, it turns out a lot of these post biotic metabolites are weakly acidic compounds, your short chain fatty acids prokaryotic acidic butyric acids, organic acid, nucleic acids, amino acids, fulvic acids. If you eat a diverse diet, your bacteria will produce these weakly acidic compounds and you'll have a healthy microbiome ecosystem. But again, I emphasize most people are not eating the diet that allows this to happen. Let's just summarizes some of the things I've already said 1000s of animals in the Amazon 1000s of species of bacteria and your gut microbiome. Consuming high dose probiotics doesn't fix a damaged gut microbiome ecosystem. And it's important to realize the foundation of a healthy ecosystem, whether it's the Amazon rainforest, the coral reefs in the ocean, the gut microbiome in your colon. Food is the basis of a healthy ecosystem. Food allows the animals or the bacteria to thrive and survive and develop and then in the gut microbiome, the diversity of bacteria can create the diversity of post biotic metabolites that are the master regulators of your health. Now I'm going to shift gears and talk about a manufacturing process. That was created in Japan using natural foods and pure spring water. And it's a multi year fermentation system to produce a broad spectrum of post biotic metabolites. So in the system, those are 80 gallon fermentation vats. Sterile manufacturing facility in southern Japan, they start out with 12 strains of probiotic bacteria that are the starter strains, a multitude of Japanese fruits and vegetables and mushrooms and seaweeds, a diversity of dietary fibers and plant polyphenols. Three year natural fermentation process and at the end of the fermentation process. The product has got over 500 of these post biotic metabolites. There is no other product in the world like this. This is a slide showing the diversity of Japanese fruits and vegetables and mushrooms and seaweeds that are used in that manufacturing process. In the right hand slide image on the slide there, I'm just listing the different strains of starter bacteria that are used in the production process and so in this multi fermentation your fermentation process. First on the image on the right hand slide I've got fermented foods. We all know that fermented foods are healthy types of foods and we all know that they have come at a tangy tart taste that is due to the post biotic metabolites that are created during the fermentation process. So emphasize that the production process in the image of the center of the slide mimics the natural fermentation process that goes on in the colon. So this Japanese production process that I'm talking about, really mimics nature. It takes food anywhere from 24 to 72 hours to pass through the colon before it gets eliminated in the bowel movement. So that's the amount of time your bacteria in your colon have to break down the food and produce these post biotic metabolites. In this multi year fermentation process in the center image, three years is 26,280 hours and the bacteria are provided with a multitude of fruits and vegetables and mushrooms and seaweeds, a diversity of dietary fibers and polyphenols. Over here in the human gut microbiome almost nobody is consuming that diversity of plant based compounds that allows a diversity of post biotic metabolites to be produced. And because of that we have an enormous number of health problems. I'm fond of saying we have an epidemic of epidemics, heart disease, cancer, diabetes, obesity, autism, Alzheimer's disease, inflammatory bowel disease. None of these were epidemics. Was I was in high school back in the 1950s. I think the health of humanity is going down seriously. And I think that this gut microbiome problem is one of the main contributors to bad health.

Speaker 2  34:29
Those in the center image are the 80 gallon fermentation vessels that are using three years of the manufacturing process. There's a second product that undergoes an additional two years of anaerobic fermentation in these mammoth 10,000 gallon, anaerobic fermentation vast, remember, 99.9% of your bacteria reside in your colon, which is an anaerobic environment. So there's two additional years of anaerobic fermentation gives the bacteria that are capable of producing post biotic metabolites in an anaerobic environment. Two additional years to produce those metabolites. So, I emphasize there's two pieces to the puzzle. probiotic bacteria are extremely important, but you have to feed them well or they won't thrive and survive. This is a slide just showing my eight minute YouTube video. You can google ROS salad Bose and watch it, but what I'm teaching people is how to make a salad which is a meal that really support your gut microbiome. My lettuce mix that I buy from my health through grocery store locally here in Ashland, Oregon has got four different types of lettuce in it. And then you can see I've got added vegetables I've got 16 different types of fiber and polyphenol containing foods in my salad buzz.

Bill Clearfield  35:55
It's it's on our email from this week. We're also announcing that you're going to be Oh, and I have I have the video on the left it was click on it.

Unknown Speaker  36:05
Click on the video. It's

Bill Clearfield  36:07
on. It's on the email that we sent out for this week's announcement that you're going to be on. I have I have your salad buzz.

Speaker 2  36:13
Okay, so people will have access to it good. Thank you. So the vegetables I got there are not set in stone different times of the year. There's some different foods available at seasonally different times. So it's just teaching people the concept of how to get a diverse range of these plant based foods in your diet every single day. The secret to this process is that when I finished processing my salad buzz once a week, I squeeze a lemon on it and toss it with the lemon lemon juice lemon juice as Vitamin C antioxidant, so my salad buzz will stay fresh in a Tupperware container. in the refrigerator for up to a week. So this is a tremendous time saver for people because when I make a salad most evenings for my wife and myself, I got two bowls on the counter. I go to this refrigerator. I pull out my lettuce bag. I pull out the Tupperware with a salad beause it's a handful of lettuce, a handful of salad bars, maybe some wild caught salmon or some garbanzo beans for a source of protein, but it takes like two minutes to make my salad for dinner. And you couldn't do anything better to support your gut microbiome. So these are the different categories of post biotic metabolites. different strains of bacteria are capable of producing all of the B vitamins, vitamin K and folic acid. Some of the essential amino acids you know we used to think that we got all of our nutrition from the food we eat. Now we find out that our bacteria are capable of producing a lot of these nutrients for us if you're eating a healthy diet. I talked about the short chain fatty acids they make a number of immune system regulating compounds. This is an important point that is natural antibiotics that are called anti microbial peptides, two different classes of them bacteriocins And defensins. These are short chain amino acids. They're small proteins that different strains of bacteria will produce and they kill pathogens, but they don't harm any of your good bacteria. It's one of the most important parts of your immune system. These natural antibiotics that your probiotic bacteria will make neurotransmitters and everybody knows about the deficiency of serotonin and increasing the risk for depression and the pharmaceutical industry did something that drives me crazy and creating a multibillion dollar year a year. Category out of the Select Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors 95% of the serotonin made in your system is made in your gut by your bacteria. And then there's got brain communication or that gets some of it transferred to your brain and I oxidant cell signaling compounds so we're just starting to learn more and more all the time about these post biotic metabolites. So this is just some of the the primary categories of metabolites that are known to date. And now I'm going to talk about some of the activity of these various post biotic metabolites showing a highly inflamed colon up here on top and a healthy one down on the bottom. So the person up on top here, they would like to have some anti inflammatory activity. And a lot of the post biotic metabolites do have anti inflammatory activity. I mentioned the antimicrobial peptides that will directly kill pathogens. The reason that person has so much inflammation is they have bacterial imbalance and too many bad bacteria producing inflammatory compounds. This person with this inflammatory situation in their colon would also like to accelerate the growth of new epithelial cells. On an average healthy people create an entirely new lining of their gastrointestinal tract every six to 10 days. Scientists estimate that about 10% of our total daily energy expenditure as humans is the energy that goes to producing and renewing epithelial cells in the gastrointestinal tract. butyrate one of the primary short chain fatty acid post biotic metabolites is the primary energy source for renewal of epithelial cells. I talked about the acid base balance. You're going to accelerate healing of the gut. microbiome lining is this intestinal barrier. And when that is inflamed, you get leaky gut and I'll talk about that in a little bit. The immune system is regulated by this detoxifying toxin. Improving gi symptom nothing will improve GI symptoms faster than directly ingesting these post biotic metabolites. We know about essential nutrients, amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins and minerals. These are compounds we can't make. We have to get them from our diet. I'm proposing that we need to rethink this concept of essential nutrients. These bacteria divide derived post biotic metabolites need to be recognized as essential nutrients. We don't make them but our bacteria make them so fatty acids, amino acids, vitamins and minerals come from the diet. The post biotic metabolites come from the diet, but they're produced by your probiotic bacteria. I want to say a couple words about antibiotic resistance. It's a huge global problem and getting worse. Bacteria are among the fastest responding organisms in the world. They double about every 20 minutes. So three times per hour. A bacteria can double. We think about humans, one generation being 20 or 30 years, maybe one to four children. Bacteria double three times per hour. And 24 hours 72 doublings and seven day course of antibiotics 504 doublings. So you can see these bacteria reproduce and multiply so fast. They can develop resistance to antibiotics very quickly. World Health Organization has ranked Antibiotic resistance is a global prices. Get rid of that use me.

Speaker 2  42:50
So I'm going to show a short little video that I hope is motivation to be proactive. I usually do this to non professional audiences, but I thought you might find it interesting also, just it emphasizes how important it is to be proactive to create and maintain a healthy gut microbiome ecosystem. So this short little two minute video was done at Harvard. And if you want to search it and watch this again, I actually I can send the link to bill you search mega plate. So on the right here I'm showing a three inch diameter petri dish with agar, which is the growth medium that they use for bacterial growth. So why am I showing this video, emphasizing that dysbiosis causes a wide range of gut probe problems which are often treated with antibiotics and dysbiosis also causes a weaker immune system, which is going to cause more systemic wide health problems that often get treated with antibiotics. And I'll spend a little bit more time on this in some of the future slides. dysbiosis causes gut inflammation which damages the intestinal lining, which allows lipo polysaccharides to leak into our system. And that is a huge health problem. And I'll talk about that in a minute. So here's the little video. I can get it to play here.

Speaker 6  44:23
So what we ended up building was basically a petri dish, except that it's two feet by four feet. And the way we set it up is that there are nine bands at the base of each of these bands. We put a normal petri dish thick Agere with different amounts of antibiotic on the outside. There's no antibiotic just in from that. There's barely more than this E. coli can survive. Inside of that there's 10 times as much 100 times and then finally the middle band has 1000 times as much antibiotic and then across the top of it, of course and fin Agere that bacteria can move around in the background is black because stars in connect at the bacteria appear as white. First, you see they spread in the area where there's no antibiotic up until the point they can no longer survive. Then a mutant appears on the right. It's resistant to the antibiotic it spreads until it starts to compete with other mutants around it. When these mutants hit the next boundary, they too have to pause and develop new mutations. To make it into 10 times as much antibiotic. Then you see the different mutants, repeat this at 100.

Speaker 6  45:50
And after about 11 days, they finally make it into 1000 times as much antibiotic as the wild type survive. And so we can see by this process of accumulating successive mutations, that bacteria which are normally sensitive to an antibiotic can evolve resistance to extremely high concentrations in a short period of time.

Speaker 2  46:17
So I thought, I think you'll agree that really emphasizes how incredibly important it is to create and maintain a healthy gut microbiome. I'm sure many of you have heard of Alessio Fasano. I hope he wins a Nobel Prize sometime. He actually discovered Zonulin and Zonulin is a compound that is produced when you have gut inflammation and tight junctions between your epithelial cells that one cell layer thick of cells in the GI tract are held together by proteins on the cell surface that kind of act like Velcro. So these proteins on the cell surface and cell surface and your GI tract are what hold your epithelial cells together and create tight junctions. substances are supposed to be able to traverse through cells from your GI tract into systemic circulation, but things are not supposed to go in between the cell. But when you have gut inflammation Zonulin is produced Zonulin destroys the proteins that are your tight junctions, degrading the intestinal tight junctions and allowing lipo polysaccharide to leak from your GI tract into systemic circulation. Now, lipo polysaccharides are some of the most highly inflammatory substances known demand. And in the next three slides, I'm going to go into detail about a really phenomenal study that was conducted and there's the title of the study human model of inflammatory cardio metabolic dysfunction, double blind PLACEBO crossover trial. So this is a study in which people were injected with low dose lipo polysaccharides. One of the important parts of this study designed it was a crossover trial. So in the first part, part A group one got injected with low dose lipid polysaccharides second groups a placebo. These people are in a medical facility for 36 hours with tremendous amount of documentation and observation, all sorts of bloodwork and all sorts of questionnaires, how are you feeling any symptoms and so forth. Then there's a washout period of several weeks, and then they reverse and group two now gets the low dose injection of lipo polysaccharide and the people that got IV lipid polysaccharides. The first time it's not in the placebo group. So here's the outcome 10 Health healthy volunteers 36 hour inpatient visits bloodwork questionnaire. The thing to emphasize here, the lower the dose of lipid polysaccharides was so low, nobody had any symptoms. But when they did the blood work, low dose polysaccharides resulted in a 25 fold increase in tumor necrosis factor alpha, a 100 fold increase in interleukin six these are inflammatory markers, which are telling us that when you have just a little bit of leaky gut, and a little bit of lipo polysaccharide is leaking into your system. So little that people don't have any symptoms. They still have systemic endogenous inflammation that's accelerating biological aging. So it is so critical to get people to understand the importance of this diversity of plant based foods to support a diverse range of post probiotic bacteria. So you get this diversity of post biotic metabolites that regulate your health.

Speaker 2  50:11
This slide I'm asking the question, what happens when you damage the ecosystem in the Amazon rainforest here. If you put the ants in the bird the bees and the butterflies in the monkeys in the snakes back into that damage, Amazon ecosystem, those inhabitants are not going to thrive and survive, and they're not going to cause the trees to regrow. My point here is it's you can't just put the inhabitants back into a damage ecosystem and expect to fix the ecosystem. So in the inflamed gut microbiome, where you have dysbiosis and bacterial imbalance, just taking oral probiotic doesn't fix the problem. Here I'm just making the point on the left that of orally ingested probiotic bacteria do survive transit through the gastric acidity in the small intestine. When they reach the colon. They have to be able to find dietary fibers and polyphenols and start the process of converting them into post biotic metabolites. That all takes time. And I presented slides earlier was summarizing studies that say 80 to 95% of people are ingesting the types of foods that allowed their bacteria to make the post biotic metabolite over on the right hand side of the slide. I'm just showing that when people take this product with high diversity of post biotic metabolites, they immediately start to get anti inflammatory activity. The antimicrobial peptides are killing pathogens. They rebalance the acid base level accelerate the regrowth of healthy cells in the lining of the GI tract. All that starts to happen pretty quickly. And Brian Mayer very famous MD gastroenterologist and microbiome scientists. This is his second book, I made a slide out of a comment that he made in his book, taking the popular and highly advertised shortcut of popping a daily supplement pill containing billions of colony forming units will not do the job. So it's not just me that's promoting this manufacturing process that has a diversity of post biotic metabolite. Here's Emma and Mayer saying these high dose probiotics don't work. I'm going to just quickly review several studies that have been done on these products where there's a high diversity of pro bio or post biotic metabolites. This is the vitamin C knockout study with mice. normal mice live about 24 months, scientists created a strain of mice where they knocked out the gene responsible for producing vitamin C. So the vitamin C knockout mice can't produce vitamin C accelerated free radical, radical damage. They only live on average about six months. So scientists did a study comparing normal mice with a vitamin C knockout mice, and then they gave the vitamin C knockout mice this high potency, diverse post biotic preparation, and instead of getting a deranged microbiome and decline in post biotic metabolites and a significant decline in ATP energy production when they, again they can't produce vitamin C, but they're getting the post biotic metabolites. Same microbiome, normal production of post biotic metabolite actually higher production of ATP than the normal mice. So pretty powerful stuff. When you get these post biotic metabolites. Here's a study on constipation. widespread problem in America approximately 20% of adults 33% of elderly people over 65 have chronic constipation. So this is a study done with female college students who have a long history of constipation. And a control group which are age matched women with no history of constipation, college aged women. And so they took three capsules daily of either the placebo or the product with the 500 Plus post biotic metabolite for two weeks at the end of two weeks. All the women who had a long history of constipation had normal bowel movements. So these post biotic metabolize are used just to treat diarrhea. They can also be used to treat constipation. These products are adaptogens They normalize bowel function. There's the reference for that. This study was done on six long distance runners on a track team in Australia. The men did an intense run. Then they took three capsules per day of the post biotic metabolites and then did a follow up intense run. 8.4% increase in hemoglobin. Now if you know anything about professional sports, doping is illegal. It's illegal to take drugs that increase your hemoglobin level. Here we're showing that if you take these post biotic metabolites and normalize gut function, you'll increase hemoglobin levels increase in vo Tomek so it increases lung function, increasing the lactate threshold so they can exercise intensely for longer periods of time before lactate builds up in the muscles, increasing their cardiac output significantly. When you increase your gut microbiome ecosystem, everything works better. And this is bone density study in Japan, two years ages 20 to 60 the dosage was interesting from three to 10 capsules a day for 24 months. The dosage differences due to the fact that some Japanese individuals are very small, petite people. Some are big, mammoth sumo type wrestlers, so the dosage was based on their size and their weight but look at the results. Here. In two years, all the men and the women had significant increases in bone mineral content and bone mineral density. This was an observational study. So the scientists conducting this study didn't give any mechanisms of action. But my theory is that we know that minerals like calcium and magnesium likes to have to have a slightly acidic condition for absorption. And all those post biotic metabolites are weakly acidic compounds are going to promote the absorption of these minerals that are involved in bone metabolism. And the B vitamins are involved in moment bone metabolism many of your probiotic bacteria are producing those compounds. So that's my theory on this outcome. Here's a study that was published in the Journal of functional foods back in 2022. It was a test of fatigue and with this high dose probiotic product, and they measured fatigue on two different rating scales. And I want to emphasize that only totally healthy people could be participants. No high blood pressure, no obesity, no history of cardiovascular problems, no depression or anxiety totally healthy people. Were the process participants here 12 clinical trial. This is the visual analog scale where once a week for 12 weeks, they just marked an X on the scale, which was their subjective feeling of how fatigue they felt during that week. And the other rating scales that chronic fatigue score 11 questions every single week for 12 weeks. And you see the outcome here. significant reductions in fatigue and both of these rating scales. And again, this is healthy people. So if people with health problems are doing this and rebalance in their gut microbiome with these post biotic metabolites, they'll get a much bigger bang for their buck. Advice following antibiotics. I think people should take these post biotic metabolites during the course of antibiotics but don't have them in the stomach at the same time. Maybe take him a couple of hours after a dose of antibiotics. And then following the course of antibiotics. I strongly recommend that people double or triple the dose of these post biotic metabolites for 10 days to two weeks to accelerate the rebuilding of a healthy gut microbiome. And what age can people take ingesting these post biotic metabolites as soon as a child can comfortably swallow one of the capsules and one thing I emphasize a lot for women that give birth to an infant via C section. Bite this capsule squeezed the paste out rub it around the inside of your infants mouth. You want to help that infant build a healthy gut microbiome. And if he or she was born in a cesarean section birth they did not get exposed to the mother's vaginal microbiome.

Speaker 2  59:03
A number of dentists are starting to recommend that people take one of these capsules with post biotic metabolites and bite it and squeeze the contents out and swish it around in your mouth for about 20 seconds or so. before swallowing it. A lot of dentists are recommending that you do it at bedtime. It supports a healthy oral gut microbiome. And the image on the right here is showing somebody with a nasty abscess in their teeth. One of the people I work with tells a story of a friend of hers who had an abscess like this. It was a holiday weekend she couldn't get to the dentist and Kathy told her bite these capsules squeezed the paste out squirt smear it on your tooth, do it every hour, and the abscess totally screwed up and she never had to go to the dentist. These post biotic metabolites these weakly acidic compounds suppress the growth of the pathogens the antimicrobial peptides kill pathogens, this stuff really works. I did CrossFit for five years. I don't do it anymore. I'm too old. But when I was in CrossFit, one of my buddies had Mersa and the nostril of his nose and his four month old baby daughter and a big patch of Mersa on the back of her right thigh. He was petrified about taking their daughter, his daughter to the hospital and having her blasted with antibiotics. I said Josh, try for a couple of days just squeezing this paste out of this product and smear it on your nose and on your daughter's bed spot on the back. Of her thigh. It all cleared up in four to five days. His nose cleared up in a couple of days and it took a little longer for his daughter's Mersa to clear up. But we can't go publicly and make this claim. But these things really worked as these post biotic metabolites have powerful activities against pathogens. A couple slides in closing here this is a comment that was made in a study published in 2022. The author's stating there's increasing evidence that the health benefits associated from probiotics are typically derived from the metabolites and secreted compounds produced by the live microbes rather than the presence of the live microbes themselves. So it's the post biotic metabolites not the bacteria themselves that are regulating your health. In 2016, Cleveland Clinic did something very interesting for many years, they've been voted as one of the top hospitals in the United States. And they've been the number one cardiac surgery unit in the United States for I think the past decade. So in 2016 Cleveland Clinic got together a panel of over 100 top scientists and physicians and asked them to research to medical literature and look for medical innovations that are likely to be game changers in the near future. They had a list of over 200 medical innovations. They narrowed it down to their top 10 There was a huge conference with over 500 physicians, scientists, journalists, big coverage of this conference or this presentation. And they started at number 10. And when they got to number one, the number one game changer using the gut microbiome to prevent diagnose and treat disease. So this is really a critically important health pro health topics. This is people can get more bang for their buck, getting eating a healthy diet or switching to a healthy diet and taking these post biotics to create and maintain a healthy microbiome than many other things. They spend time on. And one other study from 2021 the author stated is now clear that the depletion of microbial metabolites beneficial to health health is associated with a rapid rise in non communicable chronic diseases. So again, it's a bad gut and intestinal permeability. That's leading to this epidemic of epidemics of health problems. It all goes back to the gut. Hippocrates is credited with the saying all disease begins in the gut. I don't think anybody really heard him say that, but it's the right idea. So, this product is and this production process is fermentation process that produces a broad spectrum and post biotic metabolite. There are some probiotics in it. When it's encapsulated, and some prebiotics from the fermentation product, but the vast majority of this fermentation product is the post biotic metabolites. And just a little history about how this product was created. There's a man by the name of it Shiro Ohira, Japanese man when he was a young man, he was a Buddhist monk lived in the monastery for four years. And when he graduated, he left the monastery enrolled in college, he got a degree in agriculture. And after he graduated, he developed a business and a career as a landscape architect. He became incredibly successful as a landscape architect. He had a global recognition of his Latin his landscape architect career. In 1976, the country of Malaysia invited him to create and design what they call the large freedom park for one of the capital cities in one of the states of Malaysia. Ohira accepted that job and four years later, 1980 he was invited back to the grand opening ceremony, he came back to Malaysia attended the grand opening ceremonies. And he ate some tainted food and got violently ill. He was writhing on the ground nausea and vomiting. There happened to be a shaman. Attending that grand opening ceremony. He sees O'Hara lying on the ground in obvious distress kneels down cradles O'Hara's head in his lap, reaches into his leather satchel and starts the spoon feed. Oh, here are some black syrupy pasty stuff. Oh here is astounded at how quickly he recovers. So we asked some questions finds out this product that the shaman had administered him was created from locally fermented Malaysian fruits and vegetables. That's where O'Hara got first exposed to this concept of fermenting fruits and vegetables. He takes samples of it back to Japan. He plays around for a couple of years. And he gets totally frustrated because he doesn't have the scientific background to study it the way he'd like to so at age 49 with a globally successful collegiate career as a landscape architect, he totally abandoned that career goes back and enrolls in the Ph. D. Micro biology program, gets a PhD in microbiology. And after graduating, it took him 10 years to develop this fermentation system, experimenting with which types of food worked best, which strains of bacteria work best. How long does the fermentation have to be? And so that's the history on how this whole fermentation process got developed. There is no other product in the world like it. This is the number one product in the world for the direct delivery of post biotic metabolites. So these are some of the key benefits that people get when they start taking this fermentation product that has a broad spectrum of post biotic metabolites. Everybody's going to get a healthier gut microbiome. I mentioned that the studies on fatigue. I'll mention one other study that was done we don't go on social media to talk about this study because the animal rights people get all upset with us. But this is a mouse study. It's called the swimming test to fatigue. Some intestine exhaustion, so there's this big swimming tank and they have mice divided into two groups. One group gets Doctor here's the other group gets the placebo. And once a week, for four weeks, they put a single mouse in the tank and it swims until exhaustion. They measure the time they rescue the mice they're treated humanely they don't allow them to drowned. But after four weeks, the mice getting doctoral here probiotic swim two times longer than the placebo controls. If you get your gut microbiome working better, and you digest your nutrients better, you get more energy, more stamina, less fatigue. It really this is one of the things that people really notice when they start taking this fermented product with a bar broadspectrum post biotics and improved intestinal function and better elimination. I mentioned the statistics on how widespread chronic constipation is many people that start taking this are really literally aware of having better elimination,

Speaker 2  1:08:12
more strength, more stamina, more under a stronger immune system. Better pH established, active against pathogens. I mean, all of this happens with these post biotic metabolites. So what we tried to get people to do is just try a 30 count box of this high dose post biotic metabolite and we encourage people to start taking double dose two capsules twice a day for a week. 30 Count box two a day twice a day is 28 capsules, so that'll last for a week. Most people really experience a difference. And for the participants that are on this presentation on this call tonight. Those of you that live in the United States, we're going to send you a gift package that has some of these products in it and we encourage encourage you to try it. Try taking two capsules twice a day and let me know how you feel. So that's the end of my presentation. I appreciate your interest and the opportunity to be with you this evening. I'm happy to respond to questions if there are any

Bill Clearfield  1:09:16
great great as always, Ross, thank you so much. There's questions in the chat. Why don't we look at those first here and they get you What's your opinion on fulvic humic acid products?

Speaker 2  1:09:29
Oh yeah. Okay. It's pretty interesting. Every year, the people that make this fermentation product that I talked about tonight, do a scientific presentation and a different city or city every year in 2017. The scientific meeting was in Vancouver, Canada. And at that meeting, Dr. Munia ki Takahata, who is actually the lead scientist for this company gave a really wonderful and very interesting presentation and he said through an analysis they discovered that the largest single ingredient in this multi year fermentation product are fulvic acids. Now, I had never heard of fulvic acids before so of course I've dove into the research and have learned about them and they are really interesting compounds. There's humic acids and there's fulvic acids fulvic acids are much smaller. And the unique thing about fulvic acids is that they have more binding sites per molecule than any other substance in nature. So one molecule of fulvic acid can bind to 12 to 15 minerals. And because they're nano sized particles, they're easily absorbed across cellular membranes. So they're a major mechanism of transporting minerals into cells. They're primarily produced in nature. Bacteria, break down organic matter in the soil and produce fulvic acids, and then the fulvic acids help transport minerals into the root hairs of growing plants. They don't occur naturally in humans, because there's not enough time. But in this fermentation process that I showed you today, three to five years of fermentation, the bacteria have enough time to break down food substances and produce fulvic acids. So I think that may be one of the main mechanisms for a while this broad spectrum, post biotic metabolite product and from the multi year fermentation process. I think some of the benefits are due to the fact that it contains these fulvic acids which will help absorb minerals into your system.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:01
Okay, great.

Speaker 2  1:12:02
And one other comment about that. bacteria break down organic matter in the soil to produce fulvic acids which are critical regulators of nutrients coming into plants. One of the greatest sins against mankind is the spraying of all these agricultural pesticides, insecticides and herbicides on agricultural crops, which very little of it goes on to the crop, most of it goes into the ground and kills the bacteria. So the bacteria can't break down the organic matter and produce the fulvic acids. And so you get weaker plants and then you have to have more pesticides, and it drives me crazy. And I've said on that rant,

Bill Clearfield  1:12:48
okay. I'm not sure I should even read the next one. It says I'm seeing Dr. Clearfield this week but what do I do about my Candida bowel overgrowth thrush infection in the throat?

Speaker 2  1:13:03
One of the strains of bacteria in this multi year fermentation process. I didn't put in slides on this but it's called Enterococcus faecalis th 10 This is a strain of bacteria that was discovered by O'Hara in Malaysia it he discovered it and the Malaysian fermented food temp a and he studied it for years. And it is one of the most powerful antibiotics that's ever been discovered. And it's a just a probiotic, but they've discovered the reason it's such a powerful probiotic bacteria. It produces a post biotic metabolite called phenol lactic acid. And then there's studies that have been done with a 1% solution to this phenol lactic acid. It kills all sorts of pathogens, it destroys the cell membrane of E. coli and Candida and Mersa and on and on and on. So this is such an important strain of bacteria to that multi year fermentation process that I showed you. They add a specific amount of that particular strain of bacteria to the final batch before they encapsulate it. So my suggestion about Candida if you've got Candida in the mouth, I would chew these capsules and swish it around in your mouth and then swallow it and when it gets into your digestive tract, especially the colon, it's going to fight Candida I'm I don't have any studies. I can't make the claim that this is a treatment for Candida, but we do have cell culture studies that show that that Enterococcus faecalis, th 10 and the phenol lactic acid do suppress the growth of Candida. So that's one recommendation for Candida. Any interaction

Bill Clearfield  1:14:57
any interaction with the you know antifungals that all?

Speaker 2  1:15:01
Yeah, it's also got some anti fungal activity and here's an important point to make too. I mentioned the story of Dr. Hero getting sick and ingesting and getting this and getting well very quickly. A lot of people who get food poisoning, go to Mexico and they ingest bad water and ate bad food for nausea and vomiting. People will take 10 1215 capsules of this bite out and squeezed the contents out so the contents get directly into your stomach. Because the capsule itself is a patented capsule made by the Fuji capsule company in Japan. It stays hard in the acidic environment in the stomach, and then it when it reaches the small intestine, which is a much more alkaline pH environment compared to the gastric acidity. It dissolves and releases the contents in the small intestine. But if you got food poisoning in your gut, you want those contents to get into the stomach. So 1210 1215 capsules, do it. Squeeze the contents out and it's swallow so it gets directly into your gut.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:11
Okay, all right. What is your opinion of oral akkermansia?

Speaker 2  1:16:18
It's got a lot of good studies on it. And one thing I would like to do or like somebody to do I want to know if the benefits for akkermansia are due to the bacteria itself are due to a post biotic metabolite it's producing. I haven't seen any research on that. But most of these bacteria, when they're taken orally, are gonna get killed and not provide much benefit, but I know there's some good research on akkermansia But I'd like to know the mechanism of how it's providing the benefits.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:52
Okay, a couple of comments. I'm not going to mention it but these products are available on some of the supplement, distribute distribution websites, it's in the chat if you want to see it what it is. In the Gerson protocol for cancer five coffee enemas are recommended. Would that have any effect on the microbiome?

Speaker 2  1:17:13
Yeah, that's an interesting question. I actually worked as a consultant for a year with the Gerson organization and living in San Diego made many trips to their clinic down in Mexico, so I'm very familiar with their protocol. When you do coffee enemas, the caffeine gets absorbed through the rectal hem Rodial vein and goes directly to liver dilates the rectal hem Rodial vein and and you dump toxins from the liver very quickly. So it's a very effective method for quickly detoxifying the liver. But you're also going to flush out your microbiome in your rectum and your colon. So I wouldn't do that long term. But for short term, it's very, very effective. They used to recommend that people do liver juices, but I think they've stopped that now because they can't get healthy liver to process and they use the Norwalk juicer. And my problem with that is that you're eliminating all the fiber. And so I know that there's some wonderful results with the Gerson organization and I worked with him for a year and I've seen wonderful results. But my focus is a lot on the gut microbiome and you have to get the fiber as in order to have a healthy gut microbiome. But if you're dying to cancer, you might want to detox your liver. Before you start to focus on your gut microbiome.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:56
These post biotics are seem to be available in the Philippines. Just want to clarify is one weak enough for a patient with leaky gut and brain brain issues.

Speaker 2  1:19:07
Yeah, that's right. They are marketed in the Philippines and nobody really knows the answer to what dose or how long is required, I mean, biochemical individuality and everybody's got a different diet and so we really don't know how long it takes to heal a damaged lining in the intestinal barrier. But we understand the mechanism that's required, which is reducing inflammation, getting rid of the bad bacteria which are causing the inflammation, getting more of these post biotic metabolites, especially butyrate which is the primary energy source to renew those epithelial cells. But in terms of what dose and how long, nobody knows, haven't done those studies.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:59
Is there any effect of these post biotics? When SIBO

Speaker 2  1:20:05
Ah, that's an interesting question. SIBO is a difficult situation is different, different situation. I'm sure most of you know what it is. It's as bacteria from the colon that are have relocated in the distal end of the small intestine. So it's not necessarily a condition that's caused by bad bacteria. It's bacteria that have moved into the neighboring neighborhood or living in the wrong housing development. They're just they're in the wrong physical location in the gastrointestinal tract. And most people with SIBO cannot tolerate probiotics because the bacteria will ferment those foods in the small intestine and create gas and bloating and pain and diarrhea. There's a couple of different therapeutic diets for SIBO. The FODMAP diet, the specific carbohydrate diet, they should only use be used for short periods of time. I would never encourage people to be on those diets for long periods of time. On those diets many foods that are normally thought to be healthy are the people are recommended to avoid them. That's because they're going to cause fermentation. With Dr. With this product that I've talked about tonight, the post biotic metabolites most people can take this product if they have SIBO because it's not delivering probiotic bacteria. Very low levels of probiotic bacteria compared to the commercial products that contain 10s or hundreds of billions of colony forming units. And these post biotic metabolites are acid stable they're not living organisms like bacteria. So they survived transit to the gut and the small intestine and when they reached the colon, they re balanced and reestablished the whole ecosystem. But back to SIBO. My studying of the literature and talking with doctors that treat it, maybe 20% of people with SIBO can cure themselves on the FODMAP or the specific carbohydrate diet. Most people are unsuccessful, and they have to use the antibiotic right Faxon and that clears out the gut, but then they have to really pay attention to rebuilding a healthy gut microbiome. And they have to make some diet and lifestyle changes so they don't get the same condition back again. So they really have to make dietary changes and get into doing my salad bows to get all this diversity of plant based foods in their system and they have to exercise regularly and get physical movement and and so diet and lifestyle changes following the RightFax and protocol are really record required so that the SIBO doesn't come back again. But for people taking this fermentation product I've talked about and recommended this evening. Most people with SIBO can tolerate it but I encourage people with SIBO start out taking one capsule every other day for a couple of days. If you feel fine and don't feel the worsening of your symptoms, start taking one capsule daily. Do that for a couple of days. And if you're okay then go up to the recommended dose which is two capsules daily.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:29
What is what is your opinion on fmt? So is that

Unknown Speaker  1:23:35
FMT, not

Bill Clearfield  1:23:37
sure what that is exactly. fecal transplant.

Speaker 2  1:23:41
Oh, fecal transplants? Yeah. Fecal microbial transplants are astounding. They they've been shown to be probably the fastest way to change really severe intestinal and gut problems. There are now centers that are being certified to take fecal samples from they do screening of donors to make sure it's a healthy donor. And then they process the fecal samples and oftentimes, most of the time they think they are producing they dry out and produce capsules. But a lot of people just homebrew it and got a healthy family member. They'll take a single sample and put it in a blender and use a food baster or something to insert it in the rectum after a bowel movements so there's room in there to insert it. I don't promote that, but I know a lot of people do it. But there's a growing industry of certification for fecal microbial transplant companies that are doing that it's really a quite an astounding procedure. If you I mean, I've seen people go from like 220 pounds down to 150 and 120. Their skin and bones are they're not keeping any body weight. They can't digest food at all fecal microbial transplant overnight. It changes. So it's really quite dramatic.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:14
Dr. San Juan says there's a similar Omex made by Ohira in the Philippine market, but she wonders if it's the same product, is it?

Speaker 2  1:25:24
I'd have to look at him. I don't know. I'd have to have somebody send it to me.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:30
Your opinion on keystone species of the microbiome? Not sure there are

Speaker 2  1:25:35
keystone species. These are species that in relatively small numbers can have very significant metabolic effects. I think this Enterococcus faecalis th Sen that I talked about is certainly a keystone species. There's another strain that I didn't talk about tonight a different topic, but there's a strain of bacteria called Lactobacillus fermentum. Me three it synthesizes glutathione it's the most effective way of boosting glutathione that I know of. Because it this strain of bacteria produces glutathione glutathione is a post biotic metabolite of that particular species of bacteria. So it's my think that might be classified as a keystone strain. I don't think we know enough about these what would should be classified as a keystone strain. But I'm convinced of the concept that there are some strains of bacteria that are incredibly important. And even in lower numbers have significant biological effects.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:48
What is your opinion on drinking food grade hydrogen peroxide

Speaker 2  1:26:55
I started a business years ago marketing 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide. It's got tremendous benefits. I have to be very careful with it because it's terribly caustic. And it's harder and harder to get food grade hydrogen peroxide 35% food grade now I've used it for probably, oh 40 years, maybe long i it early in my career. I lived in Mexico for six years. And I was hospital administrator of an alternative non toxic cancer hospital. And one of the primary protocols is that we did intravenous low dose hydrogen peroxide. Every other day, people were in the infusion room getting an intravenous hydrogen peroxide. So that's what I learned about hydrogen peroxide. I've used it ever since. In the last year I've been unable to find a source of 35% food grade. So I now use 15% Hydrogen Peroxide. I'll put peroxide in a bowl of water and wash all my vegetables and process my vegetables. And sometimes I'll Garga with that there's a little mouse or something, but just have to be very careful with it because the food grade 35% is extremely caustic

Bill Clearfield  1:28:21
this is just I guess a statement SIBO caused by dysfunction of the ileocecal valve

Speaker 2  1:28:27
maybe I don't know, there may be multiple functional dysfunctions. I don't know I I think that's certainly a contributing problem. But I haven't studied it enough to know what's known about the, the true causes. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:44
and then how do you dilute the food? Great 35%

Unknown Speaker  1:28:48
Just with distilled water.

Bill Clearfield  1:28:52
Okay, so like 35 to 15 So it'd be about four parts to six. Yeah, something like Yeah. Okay. That's all the chat questions. Dr. Nereo has some online one or email questions. So are you there? Dr. Nair? Yes.

Speaker 4  1:29:11
Dr. Pathan. Thank you so much for the presentation. So I'm your airport correspondents. You hear announcements here. It's part of my background. That's all right. And I have to comment on your peroxide use because that's something that I'm doing also in our clinic. So I definitely vouch for that in so many ways, not only for GI symptoms, but is systemic infections. Definitely. That's definitely something that we go for. And also now on my personal end, I was just in the IFM conference recently. And there's a company there that actually is now customizing probiotics in relation to what specific strains you need for your system out. Have you heard of this company? And what are your thoughts on this customized and personalized approach to probiotic supplementation?

Speaker 2  1:30:00
I don't I'm not familiar with that. But my general comment is customization of probiotics. Oral probiotics don't work. If the post by adequate and most people taking oral probiotics. They're not going to survive transit through the gastric acid. Most people are not consuming a diverse range. of plant based materials that are the food for the probiotics. So I just don't think a customized probiotic is really going to be very effective.

Speaker 4  1:30:29
I think yeah, I think so they could conduct the specific testing on stool samples of every patient. And they would find and the diversity of these results for different individuals are basically the basis of them choosing specific probiotic strains. That's why the ranges of pricing are different in relation to what they find. So it's just something new and innovative that is out there. And I have heard your theories are also that they sometimes when they reach their gut, they're dead, and it's an immune response that's actually causing to the health benefits of such reactions.

Speaker 2  1:31:03
I appreciate your comments and that's good information. I would I would like to see done is when when the scientists are evaluating these stool samples, and finding which strains of probiotics seem to be associated with better health. The next step in the equation is finding out what sources of dietary fibers and Polyphenols are the most effective food for that strain of bacteria. So that people can consume the right types of food to promote the growth and proliferation of the healthy bacteria that will produce the post biotic metabolites.

Speaker 4  1:31:39
Right that's those are good points. So here's some questions for you and our

Speaker 7  1:31:46
next question, go ahead. Now can we combine pro bad pre bad can the post biotic and what will be the effect?

Speaker 2  1:31:58
Yes, you can combine them but if they're taken orally, the probiotics are probably not going to survive transit through the GI tract, but the prebiotic foods will and the post biotic metabolites will.

Speaker 7  1:32:15
Okay, because I was picking it that could be more potent by doing the three of them rather than one.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:26
I guess I missed that.

Speaker 7  1:32:28
No, I said I was wondering if combining the three of them will be more effective than just doing a post

Speaker 2  1:32:38
Well, diversity of foods is really important and the diversity of post biotic metabolites is really important. A diversity of probiotic bacteria is also really important, but the only way you can get a diversity of probiotic bacteria is by consuming a diverse range of plant based foods that are supplying the diverse range of fibers and polyphenol. taking oral probiotics is not going to really affect your gut microbiome is taking on probiotics doesn't increase or different or cause different types of bacteria to thrive and survive. In your gut microbiome.

Speaker 7  1:33:18
You make a difference between the live ones versus the non live one because I remain in the pro Baddeck. They have one that you refrigerate and the other one that you don't.

Speaker 2  1:33:29
Well that's a good point. There's a lot of research being done. On kills probiotics or heat treated probiotic. And they're finding out that there's health benefits associated with that, but because it's the compounds that the bacteria create, they're in the bacterial cell. So they're kind of post biotics, but they haven't been secreted into the system yet. But when you heat treat, or lyse the bacteria, it releases all these compounds in the cell. And that can have beneficial effects and maybe even some of the compounds in the cell surface have some effects. We don't know that yet. But heat treated. Probes probiotic bacteria are being studied for their health benefits and some people are classifying the compounds in the heat treated bacteria as post biotic metabolites in this and other people are arguing that that shouldn't be a correct classification.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:32
But that's more based probiotics.

Speaker 2  1:34:38
What do you say spore based? We're based probiotics. Yes, spore based probiotics can withstand gastric acidity so they'll pass through the stomach, okay and down the small intestine, but when they reach the colon, they're only going to be effective if they can access a diverse range of polyphenols and dietary fibers because they have to be able to produce post biotic metabolized to provide any health benefits is not the bacteria it's the compounds they create.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:11
Okay, that's the watchword Today children so so

Speaker 4  1:35:20
yes, so you mentioned about the these probiotics or post biotics and I think they were asking I mean the specific product that you're pertaining to should it be with without food? Yes refrigerator this almost like about the intake. I'm later on. I'm sure you're gonna talk about your product but I think they're asking you about this specifically.

Speaker 2  1:35:43
Yeah, good question. But I mentioned earlier that's a patent design capsule that the product is in, so it can be taken anytime full stomach, empty stomach. Breakfast, lunch, dinner in the middle of the night doesn't make any difference. Just get those post biotic metabolites. In on a daily basis to support and maintain a healthy gut microbiome.

Speaker 4  1:36:05
You mentioned a while ago it should be taken at night in one of your slides as it was mentioned here. Why is that?

Speaker 2  1:36:14
No, I don't remember having that on the slide. But I I don't I take my probiotics every morning. The lactobacillus fermentum me three that produces glutathione I take that every evening. And there's no research that tells me that that's a better way to do it. I do my me three bacteria for glutathione production at night because I just figured that the liver does probably more of its detoxification during the rest phase during sleep. So that's why I do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:55
What is your opinion on baking soda?

Unknown Speaker  1:37:00
For what cleaning your mouth keeping

Bill Clearfield  1:37:07
I'm just reading the questions here.

Speaker 2  1:37:10
I think some people use it to brush your teeth with it. We talked about hydrogen peroxide earlier. I used to use a weak solution or hydrogen peroxide to brush my teeth with

Unknown Speaker  1:37:23
what about rectal probiotics?

Speaker 2  1:37:26
Yeah, good point. Rectal probiotics are effective. I mean they're gonna get after you have a bowel movement and grip more space. Doing probiotics rectally will get into the lower end of the colon and be effective and some people will actually take some of the this product that I've spoken about this evening. And insert the capsules rectally. And some women do it vaginally.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:53
So you mentioned about Dr. Gabriel Go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:58
So just a follow up here. How about your opinion on the Budwig diet? You know what that is one Budwig you know, that was Joanna Budwig Yeah, she was a German Minister of Health in the early

Speaker 2  1:38:13
50s. I haven't heard her name for 50 years. I I remember

Bill Clearfield  1:38:20
you have a participant who's lives in Austria and she's she's feeding me these questions.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:28
Yeah, I don't remember her diet.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:32
Yeah. Okay, go ahead. Dr. Neeraj.

Speaker 4  1:38:35
So you mentioned about the prebiotics wanting food to work when it gets to the colon, does it mean that you have to have your your food intake first and then take your probiotics? Is that what you

Unknown Speaker  1:38:48
mean? Oops. Say that again, though.

Speaker 4  1:38:51
So you mentioned you mentioned about when the probiotics get to your colon they need to have food to consume right to create the SCFAs. Yeah, it's asking her that should you now recommend that? Take food first and take probiotics? Is that a better approach?

Speaker 2  1:39:11
I'm not taking I'm not suggesting people take probiotics. If they take food. They're taking the prebiotics. And when those prebiotics get to the colon, the bacteria will use break them down to produce the post biotic metabolites. Did I miss something in your question there?

Speaker 4  1:39:32
No, no, that was a straight up question right there. Yeah. So there's another one here. So eating, so we are creatures of habit. And we eat almost the same thing every day. So what is the drawback of this relations? The gut microbiome?

Speaker 2  1:39:49
Well, I've emphasized how important it is to consume a diversity of plant based foods. And you're right we're creatures of habit and and many people have meat and potatoes and serving a piece or serving a broccoli. That's one vegetable, you know, you need to get 10 or 15 different types of fruits and vegetables every day and almost nobody's doing that. But I emphasize that said earlier and I'll repeat this, I tried to get people to understand the importance of consuming a little bit of as many different types of fruits and vegetables a day as possible. So rather than having one big serving of vegetables, and that this is the beauty of my salad buzz that I showed you, 16 different types of fiber and polyphenol containing vegetables in your salad

Speaker 4  1:40:38
Yep, it does look good. Here's the one. Did you this epic clarifying your statement that you mentioned about there's something bad about that immune response that occurs when probiotics gets into the gut?

Speaker 2  1:40:50
No, what I said is that there's some studies that have been published, documenting that when people take high dose probiotics 50 billion 100,000,000,200 billion. It is so much of one type. It can cause the immune system to mount and alarm reaction. The analogy I use is immigration. Every year the United States lets 1000s of immigrants in that's a good thing. We've been doing it for 200 years. But if they opened the borders, and I know that's a big political problem right now, but if there were no border patrol, and we had 50 or 100 million immigrants come into our country, everything would break down the police department, the fire department the hospital system, the educational system, the grocery stores, system, it everything would be overburdened and diversity and balance would be so all messed up. So the immigration analogy is similar to taking these high dose probiotics where you have massive doses of one or several strains coming in, even if they're good healthy strains of bacteria. It's so much that it throws things out of balance, and it can cause your immune system to mount and alarm reaction.

Speaker 4  1:42:12
Then in relation to the Harvard video that you showed, yeah, I think this question was pertaining to so doctors always recommend complete your seven to 10 days of antibiotics. And if you don't, you're gonna build antibiotic resistance. But in this situation, you showed a video that actually if you take it longer than the create more antibiotic resistance, so what would be the difference in these two cases or of scenarios that you well we just presented? I'm,

Speaker 2  1:42:39
I'm not specifically recommending that people should not take antibiotics when they're called for. What I'm trying to point out with that video is how important it is for people to be proactive. At creating and maintaining a healthy gut microbiome and do everything they can think of to optimize their health so they don't have to take antibiotics. That was the main point of showing that video.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:10
Alright, that's all I got to go. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:15
So when asked if the probiotics would would be more effective than if they were in the gastric stable capsules from Japan that you you

Unknown Speaker  1:43:24
alluded to repeat that bill if they're in one

Bill Clearfield  1:43:27
probe probiotics what would they be? Would they be more effective if they were in these gastric stable capsules that from Japan that you mentioned for, you know, the preparations that you have,

Speaker 2  1:43:40
they'll be more stable but when they get to the colon, they still have to locate dietary fibers and finally for nose and I showed you studies that say an 80 to 95% of people aren't eating anywhere near the diversity of fibers and polyphenols that are required.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:57
Is there a best time to take the the post biotic?

Speaker 2  1:44:01
No anytime day night full stomach empty stomach, just take them regularly? Okay. They

Speaker 7  1:44:07
had the polyphenol supplements. If you were to take that with a probiotic or prebiotic or post Baddeck how would that work?

Unknown Speaker  1:44:19
I missed the first part of your question.

Speaker 7  1:44:22
I said they have the polythene or supplements that they sell in the market right. So if you were to take the any of the probiotic or pass bad with the polyphenols that encapsulated with that work or not.

Speaker 2  1:44:42
It's breaking up a little bit and I'm missing part of your question Bill. Can you repeat that? Might be

Bill Clearfield  1:44:47
I'm like try it. Try it one more time that Catana

Speaker 7  1:44:51
Yeah, I said, you know, they said polyphenol supplements, which supplements polyphenols

Unknown Speaker  1:45:01
Oh policy. No. Okay. Okay. That

Speaker 7  1:45:04
said them in the market. So if these Polyphenols are good, good for the past Baddeck Can we just buy them and use? Yeah, yes. Okay.

Speaker 2  1:45:20
Yes, there are a lot of polyphenols that are being marketed things like quercetin and but but the thing to understand about polyphenols and mentioned there's over 8000 of them that have been structurally identified. Many of them are massively huge molecules. And we don't effectively digest and metabolize many of these polyphenols. So many of them travel all the way through your digestive tract unchanged until they reach the colon and with the dietary fibers, humans do not contain the enzymes that allow us to digest these dietary fibers. So they also pass all the way through your GI tract. But when these polyphenols and dietary fibers reached the colon, they are the food for your probiotic bacteria and different bacteria have different DNA which allows them to digest fibers and polyphenols differently and produce different types of post biotic metabolites. Okay,

Speaker 7  1:46:24
how does the shikimate Taku we contribute may contribute to all of this.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:33
I missed that one. Yeah. So

Speaker 7  1:46:35
how can they be shikimate pathway that some bacteria use aromatic amino acids to produce several things like neurotransmitters? How can they help us in this whole process?

Speaker 2  1:46:54
Well, I'm pologize I'm having trouble with the accent there. You talk something about the pathways?

Speaker 7  1:46:59
Yeah, but my internet is kind of not Well, that's why I'm talking about the shikimate pathway where the bacteria use to change the aromatic amino acid to neurotransmitters and everything else can that contribute to metabolize and bisporus biotics.

Speaker 2  1:47:24
So how do they do that? Right. They have the probiotic bacteria have compounds called ks I'm see a Z as in Zebra y M E 's Ks, M stands for carbohydrate. Forgot the second word carbohydrates appropriate enzymes that are the enzymes that allow the bacteria to metabolize these carbohydrates and break them down into smaller compounds. So different bacteria have different ks IMEs and different compounds that their DNA allows them to produce these enzymes that allow them to digest the carbohydrates and turn them into post biotic metabolites. So it's a whole new area we're starting to learn about but it's the enzymes that bacteria have based on their DNA that allow them to create the enzymes that allow them to digest and metabolize different carbohydrates and create the post biotic metabolites. Thank you. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:32
So it's that that that Minnesota accent from Dr. Tanoto. Does it help to use side methadone, especially with gas caused by drugs?

Speaker 2  1:48:44
So methadone helped to use them ethical and to do what? For gas caused by drugs? Oh, poor gas. Yes. I'm Ethicon is is a good product that helps with gas. There's another product that's I think the best product in the world. I don't have a connection to the company. The company's name is RX vitamins, and the product is called or is named acid block. And it contains two components. It contains DGL deglycyrrhizinated, licorice and alginate sodium alginate. And the when it comes in large wafers and you chew it, it mixes with your saliva and the DGL coats the lining of the esophagus, it turns into kind of a slimy mass and you swallow it and it coats the lining of your esophagus which protects those cells in the lower end of the esophagus, from acid if there is some reflux but the other component, sodium alginate. When it gets into your stomach, it forms millions of tiny little bubbles that float on the surface of the contents of your stomach. And it kind of creates a foamy barrier that prevents things from refluxing. So it's a very, very effective product. Some people that have bad reflux will chew these tablets six or seven or eight times a day. A lot of people with reflux suffer from it more frequently when they lay down at night at bedtime. So they'll do one of these tablets before they lay down going to bed. This is available online. There's a bunch of different companies that market it's called acid block by RX vitamins. And Bill, I'll send you a I've got a, a, an image, a power or actually, I think a Word document that has an image of this product and an image of how it works in this stomach. So I'll just send that to you and you can post it for the other attendees to have access to.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:48
So just just to remind our folks to the glycerin at licorice is also an aromatase inhibitor and it will raise testosterone levels and it will help control estrogen levels that just just as an aside, so just imagine that that just a little bonus. So okay, um saccharomyces boulardii

Speaker 2  1:51:15
good product it's it's not a bacteria it's I think it's a it's strange to use I think, but it's got some very effective it's a lot of people take it and get some benefits from it. And I haven't studied it for a long time, but I know it's has some pretty good therapeutic benefits when people use it.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:38
Yeah, okay. And, again, Teresa in Vienna. Have you have you had any contact or any information on there's a technique called frequency specific microcurrent it seems to help out with GI symptoms. So it's, it's microcurrent you know, apply different microcurrent supply to different areas, to sort of baffling and

Speaker 2  1:52:07
totally new to me, it sounds very interested. Interesting. So I'd love to receive some information about it.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:13
Okay, well, I can I can send that to you. I've actually spoken at their conferences. They draw me in to talk about head injuries. So it's a whole whole thing that I don't personally deal with. But I know about the NS NS medica has an alginate product I guess, in America. It's a medica. Yeah, okay. Okay, that's pretty much all the comments. Anybody else have any other questions? I know you've been on for quite a while Ross yet if you have nobody else has any other comments yet. Could you take a couple of questions about wrapping

Speaker 7  1:52:57
I have a quick I have a quick question. Now how do you know cannot be short passage of the baby through the vaginal canal and proves so much the gut bacteria versus doing C section.

Speaker 2  1:53:21
I missed part of that. So try to try one more time and let me listen closely.

Speaker 7  1:53:28
I'm saying how does the passage of a baby through the vaginal canal actually improved the pro bat the bacterial gut bacteria so much through life?

Speaker 2  1:53:46
I think you're asking about a vaginal birth and how does the baby get exposed to the bacteria and how does that help form a healthy microbiome? Is that the question?

Speaker 7  1:53:56
That's correct. How does that have that short passage? It says time is no longer like hours after hours. It's a really very brief passage, and yet it conveys so much potency.

Speaker 2  1:54:14
So when the when the infant travels down the vaginal canal, it gets covered in mucus. And most of us have seen a baby born and it's got this mucus all over their body and the nurses start wiping them off. But some of that mucus gets in the infant's mouth and they swallow it and it gets into the digestive tract. And that's their first exposure to healthy human bacteria from the mother's vaginal microbiome and that will start to grow and proliferate and is critical for the formation of a healthy microbiome in the infant.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:57
Okay, got it.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:59
Okay. Okay, great. So, do you have like just a couple of minutes? Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:55:06
I feel you got a couple of questions about wrapping my so is there is there is there a

Bill Clearfield  1:55:09
protocol is there elaborate I know that I know the sirolimus lab test. But is there a protocol sort of a general overall protocol that you're

Unknown Speaker  1:55:18
taking rapamycin? Oh,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:20
yeah, you know, somebody comes to you for a longevity evaluation.

Speaker 2  1:55:24
Yeah. Well, I just, again, this is a new frontier. There is not enough research that has been done. But I'd say probably, I'm guessing that 85 to 90% of people who are taking rapamycin are taking five or six milligrams once a week. That's the study that Joe and Manik did with elderly people showing that five milligrams once a week got about a 20% boost to the effectiveness or the function of their immune system. So that's what most people are doing. If you go on the website, rapamycin dot news, there's a lot of people that are putting in comments about trying some different protocols. For about the last six months, I experimented taking 12 milligrams once every two weeks, did blood tests and everything didn't notice much difference. My theory behind that. Is that a little higher dose initially is going to get a little higher activation of autophagy. But again, we really haven't done the studies on this to really fine tune what's the best dose and what's the best frequency of dosing but I really like to emphasize to people how important autophagy is this is the big missing piece that people need to understand. For hundreds of 1000s of years. People evolved, eating probably one meal a day and munching a little bit but if you eat one meal a day, you spend about four hours digesting your food and 20 hours a day with no food intake. So for most of human evolution, people spent most of their time every single day in autophagy. Now people are eating breakfast lunch, dinner in between meals, snacks, dessert, nighttime cocktails. It's totally reversed. These days. People spend almost all their time with mTOR activation and not adequate time in autophagy and autophagy is the process of breaking down your body's old dysfunctional parts and rebuilding with new parts. And the analogy I use is a car with a flat tire. You can't put the new tire on until you take the old tire off but throughout your body. You got enzymes and proteins and lipids in your cellular membranes that are damaged, but they're taking up space and they're not functioning autophagy allows you to start to recycle those and build healthy new cellular membranes and proteins and enzymes and so far so that's why autophagy is so critically important and people need to spend more attention about spending more time without nutrients coming in and a lot of people aren't going to discipline themselves to do intermittent fasting and rapamycin does it for you goes into the cell binds to mTOR partially inhibits it so you can activate autophagy

Bill Clearfield  1:58:36
Could you explain again the the the rationale or the fact that to build muscle you need you need to activate mTOR somehow the rapamycin which inhibits mTOR seems to seems to help with muscle.

Speaker 2  1:58:56
So when rapamycin first became available, a lot of bodybuilders and high end athletes didn't want anything to do with it, because it's inhibiting mTOR an mTOR is the signal for growth. The analogy I use is a Formula One racecar really, really fast. But you can't drive that car fast forever. You'll burn it up. Just like humans, you've got people that are running 100 yard dash or a 440 yard dash. They can run fast for short periods of time, but you have to have down periods of rest and relaxation to rebuild and so this is why autophagy is so important. You want to have act autophagy activated so you can break down old dysfunctional muscles and cellular components and membranes and so forth so that then when M targets activated, you're replacing the old damaged things that have just been broken down and recycled.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:03
Okay that

Speaker 2  2:00:05
you that you never get autophagy and people are limited missing out on the rebuilding of their body and they're accelerating the aging process.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:19
Okay, and six milligram weekly dose, how long before someone would notice a difference?

Speaker 2  2:00:31
That's a great question. And my way of answering that is when you take a dose of vitamin D today, how much different Do you feel tomorrow? Or vitamin C or whatever, you don't feel any different any different? You take it because you understand the science behind it and the most noticeable effect that some people have experienced is weight loss, predominantly visceral abdominal fat that's been reported in animal studies. But on a day to day basis, people aren't going to notice much of anything. But when you start taking rapamycin every single day, day by day, every single cell in your body starts to work better. But it's a slow get gradual process. It's not about quick benefits. It's about the long term process of slowing down the process of biological aging and optimizing your health

Bill Clearfield  2:01:28
so what let's say you've been doing your 12 milligram every other week for you said six months. Did

Speaker 2  2:01:35
that for about six months. I'm back now to the weekly regime again, just going back and forth and one thing is frustrating for me. I used to have a LabCorp phlebotomy station close to my house with just like 10 minutes away. They've gone out of business. So now it's not easy for me to get my blood draws and track things as it was before. Before that I was getting blood draws with every dose and and 20 hours after a dose to see how fast it's absorbed and metabolized and but I can't do that anymore.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:09
Okay. Well, I think I think I'm good.

Speaker 2  2:02:16
I know you're good. Anybody anybody? Interest this evening? And Bill a few. We'll get you the attendance list. We'll get some samples have crossed out all the people that live in the United States.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:27
I will I will get it to you. As soon as I can get it to you. Yeah, no hurry, no hurry. Anybody else have questions? Comments?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:39
Can we contact information?

Speaker 2  2:02:43
My, my website is natural pharmacist.net and my email is Ross Pelton seven zero@gmail.com And I have to just please don't flood me with emails because I get a massive number of emails and and I try to answer them all but if there's 70 of you all sending me two or three emails a week is gonna put me on overload.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:10
Sorry, what was it Ross Pelton.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:12
What

Bill Clearfield  2:03:13
77

Unknown Speaker  2:03:14
Day prospecting seven zero. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:17
I have it in the chat. So,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:19
got it.

Speaker 2  2:03:20
Thank you. Alright, everybody. Thanks very much. Appreciate your interest.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:24
Thank you so much. Again, you know, being as competent and interesting as your we're going to we're going to have to, you know, do the disservice of asking you to return.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:37
I look forward to a bill.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:40
Alright, anybody have any questions? Thank you so much for us. It was it was really my night. Okay, bye bye. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Any? Any any any conferences coming up any any online? things going on? I actually I'm being interviewed by somebody in Australia tomorrow night. I'll let you know how that goes. I'm speaking on non hormonal ways to manipulate hormones because they're they're a group have a natural pass so they don't prescribe. So. I've done it a couple of times before. Dr. Neriah was on his way to the Philippines to be the keynote speaker at their alternative and the medicine Soiree and anybody else have any comments, questions? Anybody? John, what's doing at the with the medical school? You there, John? You're muted.

Speaker 8  2:04:44
Everything's beautiful on these Karason I sure appreciated the talk tonight. Pretty great.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:51
Yeah, okay. Yeah. And, again, bring one friend will double our census. You know, again, we do a pretty well here. Not as good this week as last last week we had 71 on this week we had I think 48 But you know, it's summertime and whatnot. And hopefully, you know, we're slowly expanding our reach. And we've got a couple of other sort of aggregators, Boston bio life, I think it's going to be start advertising for us also. And keep your eye out on world. health.net is a four M's sort of one line magazine. Dr. Hal Lawson had a paper in there last week. I have one going in. I don't know when it is within the next two weeks. And so it so So Ross is going to send I'm going to send it as soon as we're done here. I'm going to send Ross every all of the emails, all of your email contacts and he's promised a sample kit for everybody. So you should you should be able to get that. And with that, Bill Aaron, Scotland's

Unknown Speaker  2:06:13
doctors but it's not until

Bill Clearfield  2:06:18
at the end, I think. Yeah, it's not November, I think so.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:26
I gotcha that way.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:29
So I want those those who've been with regulars with us in the last four weeks you know, tonight we have we learned about post biotics. Last week we had Michael Anthony alien and we had peptides and I got a whole slew of them here. I got the BPC 5150 With KTV I got the cardio net. I got the primetime one. We went shopping and then we had we had the C the C 15 gal on Stephanie. Then Watson with the fatty 15 And then we had who was it that had the iron as far as the iron, so yeah, Sam Sparhawk so I mean, that's gonna last several weeks. I mean, you guys got a holy sideral were the videos off now we can say you guys got a whole a forum, education here in the last four weeks all for nothing. So I hope you all appreciate it. Okay, so if you have anybody that you'd like us to hear, please let us know. And we thank Dr. Nereo because he's been getting some of these great speakers for us.

Speaker 4  2:07:44
And when I get back I have I have more lined up for us. Okay, good because

Bill Clearfield  2:07:49
we have endless Tuesdays to fill out. We're planning on being here for a while. The EO So, and again, I don't know if you noticed in the in the emails I took the CME credit thing out because I don't know what's going on within the last four weeks I haven't been haven't been able to connect with them. So I don't know the other ones should still be good. The ones that are on there. They're on the emails every week. They should be good. You the there's a link for the video and then there's a link to for the CME credit. It's $30 we don't get any of it. So it's $30 for two CME credits, ama category one. I'm trying to get a away too, but you know it is what it is. And then the other thing just to let you know, because I have to renew my my DEA number and there's some sort of eight hours of some sort of pain class that I thought I had it covered because I've been going the last few years state of Nevada has you have to do an opioid thing but that didn't count so I had to do it do it separately. So just just before warned, and I'm going to look into seeing if we can get you know credited for that we you need eight hours total. I'm going to see if we can get credit you know some some some way to get that on here. So you can all get it without having to sort of you know, you know, go out go elsewhere. I don't know if I can but we'll try and if anybody has any contacts anywhere, you know with with any of the the other organizations, please let me know. And again, any any comments, questions, and anybody has anything they'd like to present? Please let me know.

Speaker 4  2:09:49
Some arms and I'm in the Philippines. So we're gonna put them in there.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:53
Please do. And I'm hoping I'm hoping that you know, we have we've made a few contacts in the News, New Zealand and in Australia. And I've actually reached out to the Australia osteopathy society, believe it or not, so I'm waiting to hear back from them. It would be I think I figured it out. It was the tube. It's 2pm. When we started at 5pm Pacific, it's 2pm in Sydney. I think I got that right. So on Wednesday, so that shouldn't be a burden except if they're working. It's the middle of the day. So but like we have Theresa on here, she's in Vienna it's 230 in the morning, when we started so so yeah, it's for a it's 4am in Austria here so so we thank you so much for being on with us. Okay, I anybody else I don't have anything else that Dr. Quinn you got anything for us this week? No,

Speaker 3  2:10:48
we're good. No, you're absolutely nothing. Just thanks for all your efforts. And that was a great presentation.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:53
Yeah, I said you know, the last few weeks I mean, we've been hitting it out of the ballpark. Yeah and and

Speaker 3  2:11:00
unbelievable. Unbelievable. Such cutting edge new stuff and it's just unbelievably great.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:09
Okay, and we're gonna keep it up. And, and that's it. So I've the videos up as soon as I can. I'll get your context to Ross and he's promised a gift pack for a free place. I don't know if he's gonna put a Frisbee in with it, but we'll see. Okay, Dr. Nair, do you have a great time in the Philippines? Okay, report back try to see if they can do a you know, a streaming thing so we can we can watch it

Speaker 4  2:11:42
I know day one will be placed on Facebook Live I think but I think they have recordings. So I'm gonna get some of that and we're gonna do our post conference summaries when I get back also. All right,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:52
so that together with Stefan on that he's good for that. So he's good. On summarizing those things. Okay. Anybody else have anything? Comments, questions? Don't be shy. You know, you can you can speak we don't we only we only bite the participants on Thursday. So so you're all safe tonight. Question?

Speaker 5  2:12:13
Sure. What was the name of that conference in the Philippines with Dr. Neria?

Speaker 4  2:12:21
Oh, it's the healing revolution. Happening August 14 216. Are you going please do if you are there?

Speaker 5  2:12:34
Yeah, no, no. But I'll check it out on Facebook Live.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:40
Okay. All right. You'll, you'll, you'll you'll let me know. So I'll let everybody you know, I'll keep everybody informed. So

Speaker 4  2:12:46
I'll also do the bar. I think it's a QR code for that.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:51
Okay. Yeah. So So 14th through the 16th is next week. It's next Wednesday and Thursday, Thursday and Friday, correct?

Unknown Speaker  2:13:00
Yes, that's correct.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:02
All right. So all I can say is you were missed in the office today. Dr. Nereo. Everybody was asking where you were. So those you don't know Dr. Eric comes to my office on Tuesday. Make sure to make sure I'm doing doing what needs to be done for our patients

Speaker 4  2:13:17
here. Tell them we're gonna bring them their goodies when I get back. We'll do okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:23
All right. Anybody else John? My condolences to Silvia for her sister passed away. Sorry. You'll you'll send our condolences. It's, it's John's John's spouse. And other than that, thanks again for you know, everybody for great information. Great. Great. Participation. And we'll be here next week.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:49
Thank you. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai