Bill Clearfield  00:36
Hi, there. There you go. How you doing? Good? Okay, I really appreciate

Speaker 1  00:43
Sure. Of course, of course, I have a PowerPoint, if you want me to just do that,

Bill Clearfield  00:48
we could, we could do a mix, but whatever, whatever you're up to doing,

Speaker 1  00:54
yeah, I like the interaction. I really like the interaction. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  00:58
you'll, you'll find out there'll be there. They'll ask lots of questions and whatnot. So

Speaker 1  01:04
okay, so let's you and me do 30 to 4030 to 40 minutes and leave some Q and A time. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  01:13
all right. And the there's a list, just let you know that we have a big contingent from the Philippines. So I don't know if you, you know your company goes there. Can you know it's they have a whole sort of different perspective on things than we do. So

Unknown Speaker  01:34
yeah, yeah, sure.

Bill Clearfield  01:37
And, and today, I was on a webinar, a seminar. It was live in London. I was just online one of our, one of our regulars, he probably won't be on with us tonight, because he there. And they're about, in the integrative medicine world, there are there. It's about 2000 and the year 2005 there. Yeah. I mean, they're really, you know, we complain about a lot of stuff, but I mean, they are, you know, just light years behind. And I did, I did a menopause lecture or seminar with in London also, and they are really behind. So,

Speaker 1  02:20
yeah, hormones there, b, h, R T, there is, is just horrible, horrible, horrible,

Bill Clearfield  02:27
not It's not great. They tell me they can't, they can't get pregnant alone, or D, H, E, A, that's kind of it's illegal. That's what they told me. I said, Here you get at the dollar store.

Unknown Speaker  02:40
This is unbelievable. And,

Bill Clearfield  02:43
yeah, so you know, every time we hear you hear a lot of complaints that we can't do this and we can't do that. Just have to kind of look elsewhere say maybe it's not so bad. True. True, true. So folks filter in, usually right around five, and then they'll come in, usually up to a half hour afterwards. So okay, and

Speaker 2  03:07
where are you from? I'm from West Virginia.

Speaker 1  03:10
Hello there. I'm from New I'm from New Jersey and Florida,

Speaker 2  03:15
Florida too. Yeah, a lot of guys doing good anti aging stuff in Florida.

Speaker 1  03:19
Yes, there is, there are. There are a lot of people down there that need it. So that's where the contingency is.

Speaker 2  03:29
No, we need it. We need it here too. It's, uh, underserved, true. Where are you from? West Virginia. West Virginia. I'm, uh, Bill clearfield's partner on the East Coast. Oh, wonderful, wonderful. Wonderful. I've been working with him for years, with this group and watching it grow. It's amazing.

Speaker 1  03:47
Good Bill's a good guy. He's a smart man. Oh, Lord have mercy.

Speaker 2  03:54
I'm I'm just the goofball that tries to see things stick together for a while. That's okay, but I never expected this group to grow to such a level. That's wonderful.

Bill Clearfield  04:06
You're still here. That's, that's the, that's the, that's the amazing part, right? We're still here, you know, we've been, we've been, we've been ostracized and canceled and kicked out and, you know, called all sorts of names. So,

Speaker 2  04:22
oh boy, yeah, it's gotten really heavy sometimes. So a lot of people have died. A lot of people have been killed. So we try, we try, not to get too heavy, but Bill and I have been played with a little bit just because we tried to be honest about vaccines, and it really got rough.

Unknown Speaker  04:39
Yeah, I'll bet,

Speaker 1  04:43
I'll bet I tried to stay out of that, that political discussion, yeah, because New Jersey is not very tolerant, so I definitely just stayed out of that discussion.

Speaker 2  04:56
Well, one of our mentors is Dr Peter McCulloch, and he's lectured for us, I think, three times. Bill,

Bill Clearfield  05:04
yeah, we had him live. That's, that's, that's why. That's when the AOA kicked us out. We had him live in Las Vegas. We had him live, and it was pretty wild. We had to get up a bodyguard and everything. So, you know, he is right. Dr de Silva, yeah, of course, of course, yeah, we need to get a we had a higher we had, we had the bodyguards in the in the in the crowd, you know, incognito, and also, so, yeah, hey, I'm not

Speaker 2  05:35
trying to make it negative, but, man, we've been through some rough stuff, yeah, and when we just did our East Coast thing, we had Kathy O'Brien as our guest speaker. Do you know her? Yes, yes. Okay, so she was with us here a couple of weeks ago, and she's wonderful. And we've had another gentleman, Dr Tano, who you'll probably meet. He's a wonderful, smart guy who's trying to start a teaching hospital in Africa.

Unknown Speaker  06:06
Oh, nice. And he's

Bill Clearfield  06:08
too smart for us.

Speaker 2  06:10
Actually, he's out of our big grade for sure. He's smart. He's a publisher, and he can make movies, write books, he can he's just absolutely extraordinary. And he is also a researcher, and he did a lot of finance, plus he has done the anti aging. And like Bill said, he's out of our league. Yeah, he's wonderful guy. And Melvin is our new Melvin is our new hero, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  06:38
yeah. So one of our doctor one of one of our mottos, Dr de Silva, is, if you haven't made it to quack, watch at least once that you haven't lived Wait You're not trying hard enough.

Unknown Speaker  06:52
Yeah. True, true. True, true.

Bill Clearfield  06:58
Okay, let me so dr Nario is our resident scholar here, and he's going to regale us before we start. We always start with him telling us what he learned this week from Andrew Weil.

Unknown Speaker  07:17
So start now.

Bill Clearfield  07:20
We got about two or three minutes. So, so, so, how's it going? There?

Speaker 3  07:29
Pretty good. It's it. I was about to contact Doctor Gerber for the I think he's going to be on on this call too, to remind him. But was it a consensus that every society will bring in seven. Is that Is that what you're thinking,

Bill Clearfield  07:47
well, we're hoping. Did I do that, I didn't do that.

Unknown Speaker  07:55
Hey, I did. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  07:57
All right. Okay, so. in the in the academic, integrative

Unknown Speaker  08:04
man, this is cool,

Speaker 3  08:08
alright. So, so while working, well, actually, you kind of influenced my tip of the day today. So while working with doctor bill recently, I noticed he's been reaching for grape seed extract. So that's why I asked you last night about it more often, especially for cholesterol control. The that caught my attention, because in my own training, we've been covering botanicals, and grape seed extract keeps coming up. It's no coincidence, I guess. So grape seed extract, or GSE, as we call it, is one of the most dynamic and research backed supplements we have for cardiovascular health. But here's the surprising part, it's strongest and most consistently proven benefit other than cholesterol, it's actually blood pressure. So the clinical strength backing this up? Well, let me just hear two key studies here, first in 2016 meta analysis in again, phytotherapy research analyzed 16 randomized control trials. GSE reduced systolic blood pressure by about five millimeter mercury, systolic and diastolic by two millimeter mercury, with the greatest effect in pre hypertensive or hypertensive individuals, the effective dose just one to 300 milligrams per day. In another study, 2009 double blind RCT, published in metabolism, looked at patients with metabolic syndrome, they were given 150 or 300 milligrams of GSC daily. Both groups saw significant drops in blood pressure, and the higher dose worked even better, a classic dose dependent response. Within just four, four weeks, vascular tone improved and blood flow increased, measured by flow mediated dilatation. So me mechanism in a nutshell, how it works. It enhances nitric oxide production and duration and reduces oxidized LDL, protecting the arteries. It also inhibits ace the ACE enzyme, just like a natural ace inhibitor. So that makes it an elegant, affordable alternative to expensive nitric oxide boosters based on on beets or even there are supplements out there that has arginine or citrulline. And remember, many people don't convert these Well anyway, due to low in the field, nos or Enos, as we call them, a final takeaway, grape seed extract relaxes your blood vessels, helps nitric oxide last longer, and protects arteries from oxidative stress, all without the side effects of most medications. That's your Andrew, well, tip of the day or the week.

Bill Clearfield  10:51
What about, you know, you always hear about grapefruit, you know, interacting with medications, drugs, those kinds

Speaker 3  10:59
of things, is it? Yeah. So that's actually connected to the cyber from p4 50 again, I don't know if that is that you were saying, if you're going to take great seed extract, is that just have the same effect? Is that what your question is? That's a good question. I'm not sure. So I'm going to research on that. I'll report on that for you.

Speaker 1  11:19
The answer to that question is no, there's no interaction p4 50 system and grape seed extract at all. Completely different than grapefruit.

Bill Clearfield  11:33
You see John. You see John? I told you we it was okay to invite him. Yeah. Okay. So, Dr narya, we, I'm going to, I'm going to introduce our our guest tonight. And can you folks in as they come in? Yes, so, so everybody this is, it is my great pleasure to for you to meet Dr Derek de Silva. Dr de Silva is one of the the Giants in anti aging medicine, and he's been my mentor for many, many years. He is a fabulous internist. He's 37 years of clinical experience, and he's again, a giant in Anti Aging and Longevity medicine. He's internationally recognized expert in the field of optimal aging, longevity and bio identical, hormone replacement. He is a associate staff member at Raritan Bay Medical Center. He's on the board of directors of the American University of the School of Medicine in Aruba. He's a place planning chairman at age management Medical Group, past president of the American nutraceutical society, a recipient of the Alan Mintz Award for Excellence in clinical age management medicine, best doctor of the Year award in New Jersey and New York by Castle Connolly for the past 20 consecutive years. He's an ammg Lecturer in AMG Driving Academy, guest lecturer. He's formulated over 350 dietary supplements. He's been on TV, radio and more impressively, he's probably the best dressed physician I've ever met. And I keep bugging him for years now to take, to take the clothes shopping with him, because he's always this is dressed down tonight, today, yes, yes, he is. Dr de Silva, is truly a giant, and we are really blessed to have him.

Speaker 1  13:34
And thank you very much. Dr clinfield, that was very kind.

Bill Clearfield  13:40
Well, you know, I have to be nice to work.

Speaker 1  13:41
Yes, what could I? Can I just make a comment on what we just heard from Dr Nario, you know, the the world of of grape seed extract. And, by the way, going back, probably, goodness gracious, 30 years, I was with Dr Andrew Weil, I was with Mark Blumenthal, and I was with one other person. I don't remember who that was, but there were four of us. We were having dinner, and Dr Weil said, you know, I'm going to start a program at University of Arizona in integrative medicine. And Mark Blumenthal, who was the head of the American botanical Council he still is, and myself, we said, that is fantastic. How are you going to get that through to become a fellowship program? He said, we're going to do it. And I was part, I was part of the first group that helped him through that piece with Mark Blumenthal. So it's, it's, it's been a real pleasure to see people like yourself, and there's a couple of other physicians here in my area, in New Jersey that are that have graduated from there. But you know the pro anthocyanidins, the almeric proanthocyanidins, which are in pine bark extract, are also extremely potent. And when you talk about cholesterol, you talk about endothelial function, you talk about oxidative stress and reducing oxidative damage. There's so much with regard to grape seed. And the other thing is that I think a lot of people don't pay attention to is grape skin. The thicker the skin of the grape. This is why red grapes are much have much more oxidative, have more of an oxidative effect. Anti oxidative effect is because the red grape skins are usually thicker than the green grapes. The thicker the skin, the more potent the proanthocyanidins, the more potent the antioxidative effect, because when the skin gets thick, what that means is, is that they've had a very difficult growing season, so it makes them much more resilient, if you will. But the whole world of grapes and grape skin and grape seed is just fascinating to me, and it's interesting that you talked about that tonight.

Speaker 3  16:24
So thank you for Dr de Silva, just to add to that, so you're actually talking about the property called OPCs, or oligomeric proanthocyanidins, and this is a powerful antioxidant, actually a compound 20 to 50 times more potent than vitamin C or E when it comes to free radical neutralization. So there are only two on the on the tier that's very high. On this one is grape seed extract, and the other one is Pycnogenol. So there are the ones like resveratrol, pine bark, as you said, berries are just secondary to that. So that's one of the specialties of grape seed

Speaker 1  16:59
extracts, exactly the parent to say, and is excellent, excellent, excellent. Yes, totally agree. Totally agree. So Bill, I guess we're talking about mitochondrial function and or dysfunction.

Bill Clearfield  17:11
So let's start at the beginning. We hear a lot about the mitochondrial dysfunction as the cause of aging, what is, what is mitochondrial dysfunction? We all know that the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell. We learned that in eighth

Speaker 1  17:26
grade or something, yeah. And I think most of us learned that in fourth grade, so,

Bill Clearfield  17:31
yes, yeah. Well, I was, I was a slow learner, so I went to public school, you know?

Speaker 1  17:39
So here's here's what's really interesting to me this month. This is my absolute favorite, favorite read that I get every month, and it's Scientific American. And if you look at the lead article here, it's probably upside down for you, but it's called the sunshine cure. It's the lead article in this magazine, and they talk about the various roles of the Sun plays. You know, we all talk about and hear about vitamin D. But if you, if you go back in history into the 1930s and 1920s before the whole world of antibiotics came about, where did people go that had tuberculosis? They were put into something called solariums. They were exposed to the sun, and the results were amazing. This article reviewed the role of the Sun in in multiple sclerosis. And it was a very, very interesting article when it comes to the sunshine and autoimmune dysfunction, autoimmune diseases. The other article in here, and I don't know if you can see this, but it says, your mitochondrial your mitochondrial health. That was also in this in this Magazine this month, and it's called the social lives of mitochondria. I never knew that mitochondria had a social life bill and and it was remarkable to read this article. I'm telling you. I've read this twice already, and every time I read it, I see something new. But you know, you asked me the question about mitochondria. I think we need to go back to, I don't know if you remember, or if you were at the conference that we did at ammg, where Dr Hayflick was there. Were you there at that conference? So, the Hayflick and I introduced him, you know, I introduced him at our conference. The Hayflick principle says that cells have a finite amount of divisions, and after those divisions, the cell runs out of energy, and they and it dies. So that is the Hey flick principle we today have disproven that idea, because we can now re energize cells. We have bought us mitochondrial biogenetic agents. We have other agents that we can redo, re energize the mitochondria with so going back to Dr Hayflick and to where we are today, Dr Clearfield is is night and day. I mean, it's just amazing how much we've learned about mitochondria, mitochondrial dysfunction and the role plays in aging.

Unknown Speaker  21:07
So where do we begin?

Speaker 1  21:10
I think we begin by saying there are so many different theories when it comes to aging, right? There are telomeres, there's oxidative damage, there is a loss of cellular energy. There is loss of just energy in general. I think where we begin is, how do we and how do we start to think about the aging process, and how do we start to think about the energy that is needed for these for these cells to continue living? So what's also very interesting is, is that our our brains, and when we talk about the energy up here, if you will, our brains occupy about 20% of our body mass, excuse me, 2% of our body mass, but 20% of our brain is dependent on energy. So what about cognitive dysfunction? What about cognitive decline coming up at AMG in November, I put I've put together an entire day. I don't know if you know this Dr Clearfield, but I've put together an entire day on early cognitive decline. And I've put together some really, really good speakers, and it's going to be a whole day on that. And part of that is going to one of the one of the lectures presentations, is going to be on cellular dysfunction and the role that cellular that loss of energy, if you will, and cellular dysfunction in the person with early cognitive decline. So where do we start? I think we start by saying we can fix this. You know, we have peptides today. We have exosomes that we can use. We have plasma exchange to get the toxins out. We have mitochondria biogenetic agents like PQ, Q. We have cellular energy agents like Coenzyme Q, 10, you know, carnitine, magnesium D, ribose. So all of these are what I approach my patients with, and saying, we have some solutions for you, but you got to get in here, and you have to let us work with you. And I know that's what you do. I've heard you speak 100 times at ammg, and by the way, an amazing speaker when it comes to hormones and everything else there. So that's where I think this needs to go, is even in the menopausal woman and the andropausal male. You know that 5055, year old woman, and that's 5560 year old man who's men, who's andropausal and woman who's menopausal, what are they lacking? Their biggest complaint is, I'm out of gas. There's no more fuel in the tank. I can't make the spark work. So that's where I think we need to begin, is to give people hope.

Bill Clearfield  24:38
Okay, well, so, you know, we sort of come, come about that if you take the 55 year old male or the 55 year old female, we've come, looked at it in a hormone, you know, deficiency state. But from what I'm hearing, you know, with mitochondrial re, re reassessment, we should be able to avoid, you know, the downsides of hormones, if necessary, and go a different route. Well,

Speaker 1  25:13
I don't know that I would, I don't know that I would say, no hormones. You know, I would say, let's make the hormones work better. Let's give the hormones the the tools, the pieces to build the puzzle. Because I think that for me, hormones for me and we've spoken together, are a critical part of aging. I don't think personally that you can age optimally. Now, there's exceptions to every rule that you can age optimally without some kind of hormonal help. So, and let's go back a little bit more. How does How is estrogen made? And I've heard you say this, how is estrogen made? We need B vitamins. How? What about the role of magnesium? What about the role of iodine? So I think that all of these pieces fit into the hormone piece also, and it definitely fits into the cellular energy piece. There's no question about it.

Bill Clearfield  26:33
Yeah, no, I wasn't suggesting that, you know, to eliminate hormones altogether. That's, you know, that's my right.

Speaker 1  26:40
That's where I live. I thought you were trying to trick me, actually, but

Bill Clearfield  26:46
not yet. No, yeah, it's still early. Gonna wait about a half hour, then we'll trip, once you're comfortable and, you know, everybody's asked you some questions and what, then we'll trip, right? So, um, so where did this? Where did this idea that, okay, it's now, you know, a mitochondrial dysfunction is, is the aging, is the key to aging. You know, everybody's wants the one thing that's going to going to tip the scale. And this, this idea seems to have taken hold. And, you know, it hasn't been bypassed yet by whatever is coming next.

Speaker 1  27:24
Yeah, I think that. I really think that as we age, and I love to use the analogy, because I work with Mercedes Benz. I work with the drivers at the high performance with high performance drivers at the AMG Driving Academy. I love cars. I love driving very fast cars. It's one of my one of the things I really enjoy doing. And I tell them all the time, you know, you are driving a car that has 620 horsepower. It's a it's a twin turbo v8 and if you are going to put kerosene in that engine, you are not going to get the performance that you actually deserve out of that engine. What do you have to do? You have to put in high performance gasoline, 9394 octane gasoline. And that is what I think, for all of you that are on this call, that is what I think that we need to get through to our patients. We have to clean up the oxidative stress. We have to get your insulin level down. We have to get your hemoglobin a 1c down. You know, 5.6 5.7 doesn't cut it. You know, we have to make sure that you are optimized all the way across the board. And how do we do that? The way we do that is through mitochondrial energy. So what is it I think, as soon as we say mitochondria, what's the first thing that all of you think about? The first thing that all of you think about when I say mitochondria and mitochondrial energy is CO Q, 10, right? Cellular energy, nutrient that we all know about, that we all hear about. But you know what the problem is, is that there are four groups of drugs that deplete the body of Coenzyme Q 10, and most of you and most of the physicians that I speak with in our space, in our integrative medicine space, only know of one. You only know of one class of drugs that depletes the body in of CO Q 10. And what is that? The statins folks, we've got three other huge categories of drugs that deplete the body of Coenzyme Q 10 and and one of two of them, the very drugs we use for people with cardiac dysfunction are the very drugs that deplete your body of CO Q 10. So we all know about statins. Number two are beta blockers. The beta blockers deplete the body big time of Coenzyme Q 10. So who takes beta blockers hypertensives and who else people with cardiac dysfunction. You've status post MI, you you've had a stent, you've had a bypass. What are you going to get put on? You are going to get put on a beta blocker. What else are you going to get? You're going to get a statin. So now you've got two drugs that are supposed to increase your longevity that are now depleting your body of the one cellular energy, nutrient that your body needs in order to function properly. So let me finish the other two and then I'll bring come back to another thought. So we've got statins, we've got beta blockers. What if you're diabetic? Most, if not all, of the oral hypoglycemics deplete the body of Coenzyme Q 10, so now you've got cardiovascular disease, you're diabetic, you're put on a statin, you're on a oral hypoglycemic, and what else now you've got three drugs that are depleting your body of Coenzyme Q 10. And folks, I'm telling you this right now, most of you start, most of our patients start with a coenzyme Q 10 deficiency, and then we add the drugs, and it gets even worse. And what's the fourth one? The fourth one are the SSRIs. The SSRIs the antidepressants, also deplete the body of Coenzyme Q 10. So when you're caring for these patients, when you see these patients, look at their drugs, look at the prescription medicines that they're on, and make note to make sure that the B vitamins are not being depleted, coenzyme Q 10 is not being depleted, magnesium is not being depleted, calcium is not being depleted, etc, etc, etc. This is the problem. I have another whole presentation on how prescription medicines accelerate the aging process, because every single prescription medicine we take depletes the body of Coenzyme Q 10. And somebody is asking, Which oral hypoglycemic folks we can go back to the glyburides we can go back to most, if not all, of the oral hypoglycemics will deplete the body of CO Q 10. And also, here's the other thing, diabetics have mitochondrial cellular dysfunction, like you have no idea, the cellular dysfunction in diabetics is remarkable. I was just at a conference. I spoke two weeks ago at a conference on diabetes, and I spoke about endothelial dysfunction and Bill Dr Clearfield, I'd love to do a presentation on endothelial dysfunction and the endothelial hypo endothelial glycocalyx for your group. At some point, I know you've heard me sound good to you. I'm sorry.

Bill Clearfield  34:13
September 23 sound good for you. We can arrange that. We can arrange it right

Speaker 1  34:19
now we can arrange that. But seriously, the amount of mitochondrial dysfunction in the diabetics, cellular dysfunction is remarkable. So I was in the Middle East with a group of pretty amazing international internationally known physicians. I was in the car with a gentleman. We were all going to an event, and I was in the car with a gentleman from Hopkins, from Johns. Not, excuse me. Excuse me. Not Hopkins the Mayo Clinic. And he said to me, Derek, but we have made such progress in cardiovascular disease. He was one of the world leaders in cardiovascular disease. I don't want to mention any names, because we were in a pretty it was a very interesting group. And he said to me, but we have changed. We've improved morbidity and mortality over the over, you know, five years post, you know, infarct or procedure. I said, Okay, I get that, but what happens in year 6789, and 10. And he looked at me and said, What do you mean? I said, because in year 6789, and 10, your statistics on morbidity and mortality when it comes to cardiovascular disease after these drugs is negligible. And I said to him, why do you think that is? And he said, We don't know. I said to him, I know the reason that happens is because for five years, the drugs do very well. They do very well. After five years, the drugs continue to do well. But what's missing is that the nutrient depletion at the end of the five years, usually three to five years starts to catch up. Morbidity and mortality start to go up. Why? Because of the depletion of nutrients, and you haven't repeated them, CO, Q, 10 Things like the B vitamins, P, Q, Q, you know all of these, carnitine, magnesium, all of these nutrients are depleted from these groups of drugs, because, think about it, let's say you've had bypass surgery. Let's say you've had a stent. What are you going on? You're going on a statin, a blade of blocker, an ACE inhibitor, right, a blood thinner. Every single one of these folks depletes the body of a various group of nutrients. So at now, at in year 6789, and 10, those nutrients are completely devoid I was involved in a study in Canada about 25 years ago, because in Canada, if you need a cardiac transplant, you're on the list for five, 610, years. What they did with these people was they took myocardial biopsies, and I have this data. They did these myocardial biopsies, and what they showed was, if you were kill up, one, kill up, two, kill up, three or kill up four, heart failure, a class four is an ejection fracture of less than 20% and you know, it goes down accordingly. The greater the lower your your ejection fraction, the greater the deficiency of nutrients was. So as the ejection fraction went down, the depletion of nutrients went up. And this was these data were from myocardial biopsies, so we know we knew 25 years ago that cellular dysfunction in a congestive heart failure patient. A lot of it has to do with mitochondrial dysfunction and cellular energy and cellular dysfunction. So there's so many pieces to this. And now we've gone into the whole longevity space, the whole, I don't like the word anti aging, you know, but we're going into this space, and I think we must get engaged with the use of cellular energy nutrients.

Speaker 3  39:28
Just to add to your you mentioned CHF already, so one of the culprits, also lowering down co Q 10 would be thiazide diuretics. So that's another one. That's another special mention on your list,

Speaker 1  39:42
thiazide diuretics are great if you need them. But I also think that thiazide diuretics are way overused, you know. And typical example, right is, and I see this all the time, all the time, and it makes me absolutely bonkers. Patient will come in, they go to the doctor and their legs are swelling. The physician never asks the right questions, is it? And they don't separate. Is this arterial is this arterial insufficiency, or is this venous insufficiency because swelling of the legs at the end of the day? But when you wake up in the morning, your legs are completely fine. At the end of the day, your legs are swollen. That's not an indication to give you a diuretic. The end you've got venous insufficiency. The indication the treatment there is is to put a pair of support stockings on and use some horse chestnut extract and butcher's broom, because horse chestnut extract and Bucha broom have the same effect on the vasculature, to strengthen that vasculature, to improve the the valves as stockings. So the two together are remarkable. So they don't ask the right questions, and they put them on a drug. And what does the body get depleted of of course, potassium, magnesium, calcium, and again, opening up a whole cascade of other problems, because these are, again cellular energy, nutrients that we must have in order for those cells to work and function the way they should. So, yes, great point. Great point. Go ahead, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  41:47
coenzyme Q 10 versus something like such as

Unknown Speaker  41:50
Ubiquinol.

Speaker 1  41:52
You know what? I think that I worked with Coenzyme Q 10. It's one of the first things I really started to work with. Again, 35 years ago. I've been doing this for almost 40 years, and 35 years ago, it was all about you, you know, ubiquinone. I think, I think the whole idea of, is it a reduced form of Coenzyme Q 10 that is a little bit more bioavailable, maybe? Maybe. But I think that was also a big marketing thing that happened many years ago. So for me, coenzyme Q 10 is Coenzyme Q 10. You know, you may need to take a little bit of a higher dose, but the bottom line is, take it. Take it absolutely. I personally, I take about 500 milligrams a day of Coenzyme Q 10.

Bill Clearfield  42:45
I see the remember somewhere in my training it was the dose was 100 milligrams, sort of as a base, and then 100 milligrams for every risk factor,

Unknown Speaker  42:53
exactly,

Bill Clearfield  42:55
exactly,

Speaker 1  42:56
right, exactly. So, 100 milligrams as a base if you're over the age of 50, if you're on a statin, another 100 milligrams. In fact, if you're on a statin, I would double that. I would say, you know, 100 milligrams plus 200 milligrams. I would even say 300 milligrams. If you're a diabetic, another 100 milligrams. If you're hypertensive, another 100 milligrams. So, you know, personally, I take about five, 600 milligrams a day. I travel a lot. I'm on an airplane almost every week. I see patients in New Jersey and in Florida. So when I travel, the amount of oxidative stress I'm under Bill is tremendous. And that is, that is something I use. This is a great question. So Carol is asking, Can I Can you use Vitamin K instead of CO Q 10? What a great question. All right, that opens up another whole bowl of bowl of chickens there for me. Okay, so I love that question. The answer to your question, Carol, is no no, because Coenzyme Q test vitamin K, and I'm speaking about vitamin k2 and I want to see from the people that are listening and watching here, where's vitamin k2 made in the body. And Dr Clearfield, you're not allowed to say this, because you, I know you know this, but for anybody that's listening or watching, put it in the chat, where is vitamin k2? Made in the body, and what is how many forms of vitamin K are there? So let's see if so very good. So Melvin said the gut vitamin k2 is made in the gut. So let's go back to that. What does vitamin k2 do? What vitamin k2 does, and this is why it is so important. With vitamin D, vitamin k2. Is the gatekeeper. It's the policeman. It directs calcium and vitamin D where to go. It activates two proteins. It activates osteocalcin, and it activates matrix GLA protein, okay, if you take vitamin D or calcium alone, vitamin D and calcium don't know where to go it. They don't know what to do. I put together a product 15 years ago with vitamin A, vitamin D and vitamin k2 Why did I use that? This is 15 years ago, because I knew the mechanism of what vitamin K does. So the treatment of choice, by the way, in Japan for osteoporosis, is vitamin k2 either MK four or MK seven. There was a study that was done probably now 10 years ago, and that was reported in the British Medical Journal, and what it said was we need to stop using calcium, because calcium produces atherogenic plaque, and calcium increases your risk of heart disease. And you know what? Folks, they were right. They were right. The problem with that study was that calcium comes in seven different forms, citrate, gluconate, lactate, malate, aspartate, microcrystalline, hydroxyapatite and carbonate. All right, they used calcium carbonate, which is the worst form of calcium to use, and they didn't use vitamin k2 so the calcium, where did it go? It arbitrarily deposited in the vasculature within the body. Why? Because vitamin k2 wasn't there to activate matrix GLA protein. Because activating matrix GLA protein sends calcium and vitamin D into the medial layers of the vasculature. If this is a cross section of a blood vessel, you have the externa, the media and the interna, and this is the lumen down here. What happens is, if you don't have vitamin k2 the calcium will deposit in the intimal layers. But if you have vitamin k2 it activates matrix GLA protein, and where does it deposit in the medial layers, and increases the flexibility of the vasculature itself. So Cohen's and Q 10 and vitamin k2 are two completely different things. They both have cardiac benefits, but the mechanism of what they do and how they work is completely different.

Bill Clearfield  48:20
There's the vitamin k2 vitamin MK four, MK seven.

Speaker 1  48:28
So vitamin K comes in three forms, vitamin k1 vitamin k2 and vitamin k3 vitamin k3 is toxic. Nobody uses it. It's it's poisonous. So nobody, nobody does that. K1 is from phylloquinone. It is from plants, green leafy vegetables. K2 is Menaquinone. So m, k7 means the M stands for Menaquinone, which is vitamin K. 2k is for vitamin K, and the number seven is the number of isoprene side chains on the molecule. And k4 has four isoprene side chains on the molecule vitamin k7 has seven isoprene side chains on that molecule. That's where the name and the numbers when it comes to vitamin K come from. Okay, again, two completely different things on how they work.

Unknown Speaker  49:38
Then PQ. Go

Unknown Speaker  49:41
ahead. Go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  49:42
Go ahead. What do you

Unknown Speaker  49:44
have? Somebody else? No,

Unknown Speaker  49:46
no, no, go ahead. Bill,

Bill Clearfield  49:56
question, I can't hear it either. Mary, we can't hear the question. Can't hear you. Doctor, Mary,

Unknown Speaker  50:05
procedure, I don't think she's asking a question. It's just her mic is

Unknown Speaker  50:11
on. Oh, okay,

Bill Clearfield  50:12
if she What about PQQ, when add on to coenzyme? Qt,

Speaker 1  50:19
absolutely. So. PQQ stands for pyronoquinone. I had the pleasure about 1516, years ago now introducing PQQ to the US. I did the first presentation of PQQ. In fact, I went to Japan, and I worked with a company there that introduced p q q at Expo West in Anaheim, California, and I did the first lecture in the US on p p q, q. And there's different forms, again, of P Q, Q, and I like one particular form, but anyway, P Q Q was one of the first mitochondrial biogenetic agents. It was one of the first agents that was able to rebuild the mitochondria. So what does that mean? What that means is is that we are now able to take the engine out of the car, and we're able to now put a new engine in. So we have a patent on p q q and Coenzyme Q 10, the use of those two together. And I said to the to that group, look, we're going to rebuild this engine with the p q, q, what about the fuel? What about the gasoline for the engine? That's where the Coenzyme Q 10 comes in. So one of the best forms, one of the best sources of PQ, Q is fermented. Is a fermented form of, Oh, my God, goodness, I'm drawing a blank on that fermented soy. Fermented soy, I don't know if you've ever had fermented soy. It's Nano, but boy, it's not pleasant. Have you ever had fermented soy, um,

Bill Clearfield  52:22
dr, Clearfield, not, uh, not intentionally.

Speaker 1  52:25
No stones, don't it is Nano, exactly. And Steve that it is absolutely just, it is horrible. So here I am in Japan. Okay, I'm in Japan, and this was something that they ate. So look, when you're in another country, if somebody asks if you want something, you can't be rude, right? So you eat it. I'm telling you, I put that in my mouth, and I really thought it was going to blow my cookies. It was really, really bad. I don't know how I swallowed it, but I did. So fermented soy over in Japan and in the Far East is something that they use all the time. So p q, q, by the way, it's one of the best sources of fermented soy. Is one of the best sources of p q q is wonderful when it comes to cellular energy. So let me just go over a couple of other cellular energy, nutrients. We've got co Q 10, we've got NAD and NADH. NADH. NAD and NADH are called the redox couple. What does that mean? What that means is, is that if one of them needs an electron, it will donate. It. If one of them has to have one, it will donate and it will receive. That's why it's called the redox couple. So I really like Coenzyme Q 10. I really like NADH I really like alpha lipoic acid. A lot of people don't think about alpha lipoic acid as a mitochondrial as a cellular energy nutrient, but it is in diabetes. Again, patients that have neuropathy, the neuropathy patients, what do we treat them with 300 milligrams of Alpha Lipoic Acid three times a day. All right, it is wonderful for diabetic neuropathy. The next thing is methylated B 12, methylated folate, vitamin b1 and vitamin b6 I also really like so I said Coenzyme Q, 10, NADH, N, acetyl cysteine. N, acetyl cysteine is not necessarily a mitochondrial agent. What it is the way I think of N acetyl cysteine is that it is a cleaner, if you will. What is the dose for b1, and b6, 100 milligrams of vitamin b1, 100 milligrams of vitamin b1, for neuropathy, same thing. What I would suggest you, let me finish my thought, and I'll come back to that. So what I do is, whenever I see patients that have any kind of cellular energy dysfunction, what they also have is an issue with their liver, right? They're not detoxifying, they're not cleansing, they're not getting rid of the garbage, if you will, as well as they should. This is why I really like to use glutathione. I really like to use NAD, excuse me, in acetyl cysteine, because you have to make sure that you're cleaning and getting rid of the junk. This is also where intermittent fasting comes in. What does intermittent fasting do? Intermittent fasting activates AMPK. We all know that AMPK, when it comes to longevity and aging and cellular dysfunction is one of the best things that you can do. So what does activating and PK do? Activating AMPK cellularly, what your body will do is that your body will use its own glucose that is within the fat versus using glucose that you've eaten. So what are you going to do? You're going to lose weight, and the body likes that molecule better. It goes through less of a filtration, distillation, etc, the body loves that molecule. The brain really likes that and uses it better. It burns stored fat, that is that your body has, and it really is a longevity factor. But what else does it do? It activates your sirtulins, it activates Fox O and it activates P 53 now p 53 is a tumor suppressor gene. Fox O is a, is, is, is, is, is another molecule that activates all kinds of cellular function, and then the sirtuins we all know that have to do with autophagy, with cellular cleaning. So just by activating AMPK, you get this whole other plethora of things that are also activated by things like fasting, all right? And again, anything that has to do with cellular cleaning, cellular dysfunction, what's going to happen once you clean it, you got to re energize it, and that's where all these nutrients come in, by the way. Where do you get your Where do you get your Where do you get your mitochondrial volume from,

Unknown Speaker  58:27
Mom or Dad? What

Speaker 1  58:33
do you think? Well, it's a 5050, guess, right? The mitochondrial volume, your mitochondrial energy, comes from your mother. It comes from your mother. So it's the, it's the, it's the X chromosome that really gives you all of that good stuff. It gives you all of that good juice, if you will. Any questions, folks?

Bill Clearfield  58:58
All right, so it sounds, sounds plausible until I, you know, I'm sitting here and I got my patient in front of me, and they want to know. We want to know. Okay, I'm going to recommend Coenzyme Q 10 and alpha lipoic acid and methylated B vitamins prove it. How do we measure it?

Speaker 1  59:20
Very interesting question. There is now a test. There's now a test that you can actually measure mitochondrial volume and mitochondrial function. So I'm involved in a project right now that was a that was a great question, because in the past, we've not been able to quantitatively measure it. It was all very subjective, right? There was no objective way to do it. There's now a test that you can measure mitochondrial function and mitochondrial volume. So that is, and again, this is, this is this brings me to another, another issue here. Bill, when you take CO Q, 10, do you feel anything? No, typically you don't. If you take p, q, do you feel anything? No, the people that feel something are the people that have their gas tank is empty. The car is not even running. You put a little bit of fuel in and the gas, then the car now starts to run. Most of us, I think, in this group. And you know, there's quite a few people on here. Now, most of these people in this group are on various amounts of nutrients. But what's happening here is that our tanks are at least half full, so taking something else and putting another quarter tank of gasoline in, you don't really feel it. It's the people who are really, really deficient are the ones that really feel it. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:01:27
you know, there is a way to measure it, though I always find the one, the ones that are the most sort of amenable are they came in depleted, we repleted them, and then, you know, we don't see them for a year, and they come back, and they're, they're a train wreck again. And they said, You know, I didn't, I didn't realize. I use vitamin D as an example. You don't feel anything with D until it's been adequate, and then you're feeling good. And then all then, if you let it, let it slide again, and now they're down at 18 or 20, um, that's when they'll feel it. That's when that's when you'll know that

Speaker 1  1:02:02
see a difference Exactly, exactly, exactly. So let me go through some of these comments here. Calcium carbonate is chalk. You're absolutely right. Steve, calcium carbonate it. I don't even know why we use it. I mean, it's just all I will say is this, every single one of you uses calcium differently. Dr Clearfield, may need calcium citrate. I may need calcium gluconate. Steve, you may need calcium, you know, microcrystal Hydroxyapatite. So we all use it differently. And there are people who need carbonate, so that's why it's still there. But it's the worst form of that. And I went over the doses for neuropathy, 100 milligrams of thymine is really the way to go. A patient today said she had intractable vomiting after one tablet of 1000 cans of Berberine. I assume that's what that means, is Berberine. Look, Berberine has a very similar effect to the GLP ones. So when you're using Berberine, I would not suggest you ever start with 1000 milligrams of Berberine. That is way too much. That is way too much. So be careful when you use Berberine, because it has a GLP one like effect. William Davis, wheat bill, he states not to use NAC long term, and depletes the gut mucin layer. He mentions mucomish treatments for those with excess mucus, Exactly So, n acetyl cysteine. Dr Davis here or no or Steve N acetyl cysteine. What do we use an N acetyl cysteine for? We use N acetyl cysteine, what in the emergency room? Mucomist For people with what? Tylenol on overdoses, right? So, yes, this is where I think that effect of breaking up the mucus is great. This lady went to the emergency room. How much vitamin k2 do you recommend? Here's what I would say to you about vitamin k2 Chia when you're using vitamin D. The ratio of vitamin D to vitamin k2 needs to be a 10 to one ratio. So it's a 10 to one ratio. So if you're taking 5000 IU of vitamin D, you need to have if you're using 500 Mike, excuse me, if you're using 5000 IU of vitamin D, you need to have 500 micrograms of vitamin k2 alright. Vitamin k2 has no known toxicity. And I'll say that again. Vitamin k2 has no known toxicity. And I did a whole presentation on vitamin K at the last ammg, and that was one of the slides that I put up. Dihydro Berberine has less gastric irritation. True, true. Dihydro Berberine, if you're going to take Berberine, it should be dihydro Berberine because it has much less side effects. And there is an ingredient which is forgetting the brand name on that, but it's the type of Berberine that dihydro Berberine that I always use. I use concentrated K check it out. Okay, as long as you have good levels of Eks, yeah, no problem with NAC. I agree. Kenton, theonate, magnesium. I assume you're talking about magnesium, theonate. I like it. What is the dose we should start with? 500 I don't know what that referring to, what? What about Coumadin? There's a great question. That's a great question. So Dr Clearfield is the cardiologist down the street from me. Dr Clearfield calls me and says, Dr de Silva, do you realize that your patient, that our mutual patient, is on a blood thinner. You know, they've had bypass surgery, they're on they've got stents, their atrial fibrillation. Nobody uses Coumadin today. You know, very few people use Coumadin. I mean, I do primary care, so I see this. But what do you tell what do I tell Dr Clearfield, when he says, Why are you giving this patient of ours vitamin K? Well, what do you tell them? And this is a real this is a real thing. This is going to happen. What I tell them is this, you're talking about vitamin k1 you're talking about phylloquinone, which is from green leafy vegetables, which will supposedly clot your blood. Vitamin k2 and I asked this question for a reason, vitamin k2 is made in the gut. It has no effect on clotting. If it did, we would all be dying of blood clots because it's made in the gut, so no effect on that at all. What about the metallic valves? I don't see any issue without valvular disease and Vitamin K. Antiques can be used in Coumadin for metallic valves that that is really up to the cardiologist and yourself, but that's

Unknown Speaker  1:07:47
where we are.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:50
Any questions?

Bill Clearfield  1:07:53
Dr Nario, you have any questions from online?

Speaker 3  1:07:57
Yep, we have some good ones here, but uh, great lecture. Dr de Silva, thank you. Stirred some some heads here. So we got some questions here. And, oh, I think there was one on the in the chat box that you didn't see, Mito Q versus Koki. Tim,

Bill Clearfield  1:08:18
yeah, until after the video's off.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:20
Yeah, that's right. Skip that on purpose.

Speaker 3  1:08:22
Yeah, gotcha, gotcha. Alright. So I think this was pertaining to the, again, the question of their you, Dr Bill, asked about the direct assessment of, I guess, mitochondrial function. What in your practice, as you said, During primary care, what is your as we know and what we have in our arsenal are in direct testing of mitochondrial dysfunction. What are your favorites?

Speaker 1  1:08:49
Well, there's, there's, there's only one or two specific ways to test mitochondrial function. And this is brand new, by the way, this is out of a lab in California. I don't want to mention because I know this is a CME program. I can mention it afterwards, and I'll have to look up the name of the test. But it's a very specific test that looks at how well and what you've done right? Is, has what you've done impacted mitochondrial function? Because if it hasn't, then you're wasting your money. So this one test is specifically available for that, and I'll, again, I'll be happy to present that, you know, give that to you

Speaker 3  1:09:37
later, right? I think they're pertaining to more of I mean, for me, in my practice, you're, you're, if you know a patient's diabetic, if your patient's already, like in hypercholesterolemia, those are already indirect signs for you that mitochondrial dysfunction is already ongoing with this patient. I don't think you need a direct mitochondrial test for that, but I think that's what the question was. Again, I'm just

Speaker 1  1:10:00
assuming. Oh, okay, okay, so it's also the group of drugs that I mentioned, right, right? The statins, the oral hypoglycemics, the SSRIs and the beta blockers. The way I assess mitochondrial function is it look, if you're aging, and I'll use an arbitrary number, if you're born with 1000 mitochondria, by the time you're 60, that mitochondrial number is probably down to 20. You're lucky if it's 20. So what I'm why? And the question is, why? It's because we are aging. We are losing energy, cellular energy becomes one of the most important things that we can do to optimize the aging process. Make sure you just keep filling the tank. You gotta keep filling the tank in order to make

Speaker 3  1:10:55
the car run right, right. So you mentioned about, I think, fasting, so those are probably non supplemental strategies of improving mitochondrial biogenesis. There's a question here about cold exposure. What are

Speaker 1  1:11:10
your thoughts on that yes, yes, yes, yes. So what are some of the other ways to improve mitochondrial function? Yes, fasting. You know, look, I know the benefits of cold plunges, but I was born six degrees, seven degrees above the equator in Sri Lanka. You are not going to get this Sri Lankan to jump into a cold water thing. It's not happening. It's not happening, okay? But yes, there's a there's a role there. Altitude, altitude, hyperbaric oxygen is another way to improve mitochondrial function. But you know what? You know what the number one way to improve mitochondrial function is diet, besides diet, exercise, exercise, when you exercise. Here's what happens when you exercise. What happens is your body and when you get to that point. I mean, I play a lot of tennis, so I've been playing tennis since I was 11 years old. So I've been doing this playing tennis a long time. When I play tennis, and there's a point, by the way, there's a study that was done that showed that people who play racket sports have the best live the longest and have the best function. Why? Because it's an intermittent on and off. And in fact, at the US Open last year in New York on the court. On the side of the court, there was a big, round emblem, and it said, play racket sports. Studies show that playing Racquet Sports improves longevity, and there was a study that was done. That's why that was there. So what happens is, when you get to the point that you are exhausted, when you're tired, what your body now does is to say, okay, when the next time you get to that spot, we're going to be ready for you. So what does it do? It builds and resets the mitochondria. This is why energy endurance training is so wonderful for mitochondrial function. So exercise getting yourself to that point where, Oh God, I can't breathe, is you stop, your body resets, and it remembers that when you get there, next time, we're going to have enough energy,

Speaker 3  1:13:46
right? Well, I have to rethink my sports now, because I'm sitting on my couch watching Netflix thinking that it's a sport that would increase my mitochondria. So no, that's not going to work. So another one, another good one. Have you heard of Alpha Lipoic Acid leading to hypothyroidism or effects of thyroid functions? No,

Speaker 1  1:14:12
no, no, because alpha lipoic acid leading to thyroid dysfunction makes absolutely no sense to me. Here's why. Alpha Lipoic Acid, as I said before, is a cellular energy nutrient. What do hypothyroid patients have? They have metabolic dysfunction secondary to loss of energy. What are they missing? They're missing iodine, they're missing selenium, they're missing zinc, they're missing all of these critical nutrients that are cellular energy, nutrients. So I cannot see that happening no way in alpha, in hypothyroidism. If somebody has a paper on that, let me read it, because I can pick that thing apart and tell you

Speaker 3  1:15:01
true or false. So some other lecturers in a forum actually, where I do lectures, and they have mentioned about, I think that's where the question came from. They mentioned about anything more than 600 milligrams per day, but again, as the disclaimer of the lecture would be, these are really chronic states of high doses of alpha lipoic acid. And again, there might be other compounding factors here that comes into play. But again, I do agree with you that alpha lipovic is just a is this a potent antioxidant? Right? It's water and fat soluble, and there's just so many benefits that brings to the table. So, yes,

Speaker 1  1:15:44
look, 100 milligrams, three times a day is not going to hurt anybody, okay, right? That is a basic, standard dose that I don't think is going to hurt anybody,

Unknown Speaker  1:15:53
right?

Speaker 4  1:15:54
I also see sometimes. I also see sometimes R, R, the steps,

Speaker 1  1:16:00
the R isomer, correct. You're absolutely right that. That's a caveat that I forgot to mention. There are two different isomers of of Alpha Lipoic Acid, the R isomer, the the dex the R the levorotori and the dexrotatory component. So the R is much more physiologically bioactive than the D. And if you're looking for ethylipoic acid, it needs to be the R isomer, correct.

Speaker 4  1:16:29
And then I just want to mention, at one lecture, we were told about anti factor, which are some kind of lipids for the mitochondria, again, to repair the mitochondria.

Speaker 1  1:16:42
Yeah, yeah. NT factor was was put together to enhance the effect the, what's the what's the word? I'm thinking here it was. It was put together to potentiate the effect of a lot of these cellular energy nutrients. Yes, yes, yes.

Speaker 3  1:17:10
Any more questions, yeah, about injectable co Q 10 versus oral co Q 10 in your experience? Is there a difference, or does it matter? Skill Q 10

Speaker 1  1:17:21
anyway? Well, first of all, coenzyme Q 10 has what is called an orphan drug indication. There are children that are born with mitochondrial cytopathies. These children, once they get into their teenage years, cannot function without injectable CO, Q, 10, okay, that is, as I said before, is an it has an orphan drug status for very specific indication, what is called a mitochondrial cytopathy, as far as a normal person that does not have a mitochondrial cytopathy injectable, no, I don't think so. I would much rather go with an oral form of Coenzyme Q 10,

Speaker 3  1:18:17
right, right? And it is out there. There are preparations of such. But again, yeah, you you want to go for the non invasive. I mean, compliance alone will just assure you of, yeah, giving it orally. But again, you're talking to men. Don't make them take it two, three times. Forget about, I think this is the icing on the cake for you. Here's a question, Dr de Silva, if you had just one mitochondrial intervention to recommend for someone over 6060, what would that be? So that's a personal question, I guess for you. Okay, if I had one your favorite, maybe exercise, all right?

Speaker 1  1:18:57
Exercise, because there's because, here's the thing, what's the downside of exercise? The downside of exercise are the super athletes, right? The crazy, the people that run a marathon every day for 30 days. That's nuts. All right? I've run two marathons, so I know what it's like to run a marathon. I've done distance running. I've run 1000 miles in three months, but that was 1000 miles in three months. We were doing 20 miles plus miles a day. That was also when I was when I was younger, like I'm 68 right now. I'm not going to do that now. I'll kill myself. So when it comes to the intervention of what is best for you, for your body that has the greatest effect, it would be exercise. If I had one agent to take, if I had one cellular energy agent to take, which was a pill? It would be co Q, 10, no question.

Speaker 3  1:20:06
Well, I guess that answers their curiosity. So it seems like they want to know your secret. So from the age of 68 doing it like this, and yeah, don't overdo it. We still had it from

Bill Clearfield  1:20:18
you for the newest lecture. How did you adapt from Sri Lanka to Edison, New Jersey? I mean, what that's we

Speaker 1  1:20:27
actually came. We actually came from. We went. We left Sri Lanka in 1967 and came to the US. We actually came into the Philadelphia area. And I grew up in the Philadelphia archdiocese. I went to a Catholic all boys, Catholic High School, and then Bishop Egan, Bishop Eagan

Bill Clearfield  1:20:49
high school. I went to Northeast High

Speaker 1  1:20:52
you guys had a you guys had a good you had a good public school team. We had a good football team. Yeah, we won the great football team. Yep. But, and then from there, I did my residency in New Jersey, and that's how I stayed in in the area,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:05
okay, all right. Well, I meant, like, you know, climate

Speaker 1  1:21:09
adjustment. Oh, that was not fun. The first time I saw snow I was 10 years old. That was very interesting. So let me answer. I like some of these questions. Somebody saying, here, Steve, are you saying that ala prevents the conversion of t4, to two? I didn't say that. I don't know if it was somebody else, Anna or Anna saying ala prevents the conversion of t4 to t3 I hope you're not talking about alpha linoleic acid. A lot of people confuse alpha lipoic acid, which is ala with alpha linoleic acid. Now, the linoleic acid may prevent the conversion of t4 to t3 but alpha lipoic acid, and I will look this up, but I have never seen that dose of CO Q 10, we recommended, I think we talked about that, any specific kind of exercise, aerobic exercise. So tennis. Tennis is perfect example of you're running and stopping you're running and stopping you're running and stopping you're you're letting your body reset and retool. For me, that's one of the best ways to do it.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:24
See what else you get, sufficient vitamin K from, from naturally? I don't think so, because here's the problem, cod liver

Speaker 1  1:22:34
oil. No, no, no, the liver of the cod fish. That's where, that's what cod liver oil is, right? It's the liver of the cod fish. Not the best way to get Vitamin K, not at all. No, yeah. In Parkinson's disease, they recommend 3000 milligrams of Coenzyme Q 10. It's actually 2000 milligrams of Coenzyme Q 10. That study was published about 15 years ago in in neurology, many, many moons ago, post biotic support, mitochondrial function, Ala. How about NAD? Helps with chronic fatigue syndrome. I agree. NAD is, great. I don't have any problem with that. If you saw that on Tiktok, yeah, NAD is a great cellular energy. New Tiktok is a great journal, by the way. You know lots of research data on Tiktok.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:36
Speaking of NAD, have you had much experience it with the IV form. I have not all right, because we've seen that said that a lot of our patients are very sensitive to it, particularly they get the palpitations if it's run too quickly. So

Speaker 1  1:23:54
right NAD, if you're going to use, I used NAD as an injectable, and my pressure went up, my heart rate went up, and I took too much and it scared the daylights out of me, so be very careful with using NAD IV or even sub q, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:24:14
and there's some mention in here about plasmalogen precursors. We had a talk a couple years ago from Dr Gooden, though, and I think we need to have him back too. So any other questions,

Speaker 3  1:24:30
I think you're going to turn it off right. There's a question about a brand here.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:35
Okay, all right. Well, thank you, Dr de Silva, this was really fabulous. And please have Greg and Rick. You know, we've been trying for years for the game to help sponsor us so we can we can grow together. So thank you so much

Speaker 1  1:24:48
for being here, my pleasure. Thank you very much for the invitation, and to all of you that spent time with us this evening. Thank you and many blessings.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:55
All right. Videos off now you can talk great. You tell your company and your supplement line and all, Oh, we're free. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:25:05
now, thank you. Now I can do that. Okay, so, as I said, before I have, I've been working in the field of vitamins and supplements for almost 40 years, and about about 30 years ago, I put together a whole line of supplements because I never knew what was out there was really working. So about 12 years ago, 1112, years ago now, my both of my sons came to me and said, Dad, we're going to take over your vitamin business, and we're going to rebrand, brand it, we're going to relabel it, and we're going to start selling to doctors. Because I was only selling it to my patients, you know, I wanted something for my patients that I could use and and I knew my brand I could trust, and that's what they did. So now, for those of you that are interested, and I appreciate Dr Clearfield allowing me to do this is very kind of you. The company is called Common Sense supplements on if you want to look it up, it's CS, which stands for common sense CS supplements.com if you go to the site, you will see it's not fancy. There's no crazy stuff on there, because this is something we have to be very careful with I'm very aware of compliance and what to say, not to say, but if you would like any of the supplements, in fact, all of the ingredients I talked about, we have a product by the name of cell energy. I put the cell energy product together because I started to see in COVID patients this huge cellular dysfunction. And we know what is long COVID folks. Long COVID is mitochondrial dysfunction. Is loss of cellular energy. So what I said was, I'm going to put a product together for my long COVID patients. What do I have in it? Coenzyme Q, 10, NADH and acetyl cysteine, Alpha Lipoic Acid, methylated B, 12, methylated folate, b1, and b6, that's what's in there, and it's in full dose. So it's not 10 milligrams of Coenzyme Q 10, it's 100 milligrams of Coenzyme Q 10. It's all full dose. And I'll tell you what. I take it every day, my patients, anybody with diabetes, vascular disease, COVID, over the age of 50 or 55 every single one of them are on the cell energy product. We also have the vitamin D. I have the vitamin D in the right ratio. So it's, it's Vitamin A, Vitamin D and vitamin k2 vitamin A. Why it you acts as a transport. And a lot of times the vitamin D and K can't get in, and vitamin A is a wonderful transport to get it in. The vitamin D is 5000 IU, and the vitamin k2 is 500 micrograms. All right, there's a whole host of other products on there. We have a thyroid supplement, we have a cholesterol supplement, we have a diabetes supplement, and then we have the regular stuff, but a lot of stuff. What I have, the probiotic that we have the capsule is acid stable, so the acid in the stomach can't destroy it, and it's very highly viable. So any of you that have any questions, feel free. You can register. You can go to the homepage and upper right hand corner, it just says, register. Once you set up your registration, my sons will send you an email that says you now have access to the back office, and you can buy these products wholesale, and you can retail them to your to your patients. If you start to do that, when you start to do that, I will be happy to do trainings for you and your staff on these specific products, as to what to say, how to sell them, and what to expect as far as results go. So CS supplements.com CS stands for common sense, but the website is just CS supplements.com and Bill, can I give out my phone number? Absolutely okay. So if you have any questions, you can text me, I'm on WhatsApp. Also, if you're out of the country, 908-256-5560

Speaker 1  1:29:56
or you can have Dr Clearfield. He has it if you need it, 90825655 82565560, thank you so much for allowing me to do that. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:07
Are you in full script? Doctor da

Speaker 1  1:30:08
Silva, I am not. I'm not. The reason I'm not is because you know you can't pass off savings. You know we want to give you know, when you do full script, you have to give them 10% I'd rather give you the 10% than giving them 10% and we're not on Amazon. You can't find this anywhere. We're not online. This is only strictly through doctors and through the website. And if you want to go to the website, if you want to send your patients to the website. They put in your code. You get credited for that when they purchase product.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:50
We can find we'll find you next, the next ammg in the vendors aisle,

Speaker 1  1:30:55
right? We'll be there. We're always there.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:00
Yeah, okay, all right. Anybody else have any comments or questions? You know, here's one of our supplement. You know, gurus also, besides mitochondrial, you know, excellence. So,

Speaker 3  1:31:19
so, so, dr, Bill, the Mito the mitoch question, yeah, Siobhan was our presenter, presenter for mitoch.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:27
Yeah. I didn't mean to cut you off. Dr, Mitchell, it's just that with the with the CMEs, you know, we have to watch our cues and watch our watch our P's and Q's, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:31:37
yeah. Very, very, up, thanks.

Speaker 1  1:31:41
Let me just look something up, right up here, because I know Mito Q. I think the Mito Q is,

Speaker 1  1:31:57
yeah, the mitoch is a, I want to look at the label on this.

Speaker 3  1:32:04
Where's the label? It's a, it's a modified, I know, CO, Q, 10, that's what. And it actually have, it has, actually an accumulation designated to the mitochondria inside of the mitochondria. It's mitochonal, right? Yes, yep. That's right,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:23
yeah. Look,

Speaker 4  1:32:25
it's from pomegranate. It's from where meto pure. Meto pure from

Speaker 3  1:32:31
pomegranate. Oh, this is my Tokyo. Oh, my Tokyo.

Speaker 1  1:32:35
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Again, look, anything that has to do with mitochondrial function. I think people are trying. People know that Coenzyme Q 10 is important, right? This is where the Ubiquinol and the ubiquinone thing came in. Now, what they're trying to say is, okay, we're taking it another step further. If this makes it more bio available. I don't have a problem with it, folks. Okay, just know what you're getting into again, I'm looking at this just very briefly. I've seen it, I've heard about it. Never really looked into it, but it looks fine. I don't have anything bad to say about it, not at all.

Speaker 3  1:33:17
I use it a lot, so I'm a big user of Mito Q, and that's why, even with the protocol of Dr Houston and the integrative cardio cardiology fellowship in frm, he specifically says that when you use Mito Q, you have to make sure you're still using co Q 10, because CO Q 10 is a general antioxidant and supports all the ATP needs of all The tissues in the body with Mito Q. It's really organ specific. That's why they have Mito Q, heart. They have Mito Q, I I think eyes. So they have all of these different ones, and that's why they work together. It's just that, of course, mitoch needs. You just have lower doses for it versus co Q. 10s are in the hundreds of mitoch. I think Max would be 20 milligrams. So it's really a delivery system that they develop with that technology. And I don't know Siobhan. Is that correct? I think Siobhan is here.

Speaker 5  1:34:10
Yeah, I think that's very correct. So there are some things co Q 10 can do, and then there are other things that I think mighto Q is better at, in terms of, you know, acting as a mitochondrial antioxidants. So I think they can both play roles in things like addressing cardiovascular health and diabetes. So, yeah, I was just interested if you had had any kind of experience with it, with

Unknown Speaker  1:34:33
your patients. But it sounds like I'm sorry, I'm not. I like to take stuff myself. You know, before I

Speaker 4  1:34:40
I would like to ask a question. Like the question is like, at age 60, if we have only 20 mitochondria in the cells, I also so how we can increase, if we do exercise, we can restore it back to 1000 or just 200

Speaker 1  1:35:00
Yes, yes. So the question is, if, if the amount and the volume of Coenzyme Q 10 by age 60 has diminished, how do we now rebuild it? The way we rebuild it is what are called mitochondrial biogenetic agents, right? Which is P, Q, Q, coenzyme Q, 10 exercise, hyperbaric oxygen, high altitudes, cold plunges. These are all things that we can do to rebuild, because every time you do these activities, what you're doing is you're essentially regenerating your youth. And the way you're regenerating Your youth is by rebuilding what is missing, and that's where the mitochondria come in. But you can do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:02
I don't know, my youth, we had Tasty Cakes every night for dessert

Unknown Speaker  1:36:06
building. That's a Philadelphia thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:09
That's a Philadelphia thing. That is,

Speaker 4  1:36:14
I have some patients that have high hematocrit and also sometimes hemoglobin is high to like a 17 and 52 hematocrit for a man and I did the jack two mutation, and they were, they didn't come positive for polycythemia, and I think he has sleep apnea. Is sleep apnea the same as high altitude, because it's hypoxia. I know that sleep apnea gives memory problem pulmonary hypertension, but it's some kind of hypoxia during sleep. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:36:53
that's very interesting. That's very interesting observation. So, you know, we talk about, and Dr Clearfield, I've heard him say this also, that there's a there's a big difference between polycythemia and hemochromatosis, right? And again, people that live at high altitudes, what did they have? They have polycythemia, yes. So. And again, I guess in sleep apnea, you would you could probably have the same thing, yeah,

Speaker 4  1:37:26
but Dr David brennason said sleep apnea, it's very bad for

Speaker 1  1:37:31
memory, it's horrible. Sleep apnea is one of the worst things that you can do to your body. You can hypertension, atrial fibrillation, cardiovascular disease, stroke, you name it. Sleep apnea is one of the worst things that you can do it's horrible, horrible, but it's not the way to, you know it, you've got to fix sleep apnea, by the way, if you have a patient that comes in on more than. That's the

Unknown Speaker  1:37:58
first thing you need

Speaker 1  1:38:02
to Okay, all right. Dr Clearfield,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:05
I got to get out of here. Okay. One last thing, okay. Thank you so much. I mean, we really appreciate it. I've been trying to get in touch with you because Greg had told me about your neurological program. I don't know if you know that we I sent you a note that we've been doing some training. Come with it. Come in

Speaker 3  1:38:24
here. Look, come here. Look, come with me. You.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:31
Uh, Dr Lewis, please

Unknown Speaker  1:38:34
mute your phone.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:37
Yeah, thank

Bill Clearfield  1:38:38
you, John, go ahead, dog. So we've been doing transcranial magnetic stimulation here, and so I don't know if that was anything that you might want to include in your in your your neurological program. I'll get in touch with you later. So I

Unknown Speaker  1:38:50
did send you a message.

Speaker 6  1:38:51
Send me an email. I'll look at that again. Bill,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:55
okay, all right, thank you so thank you so much. This was really great. And please tell those guys we've been telling them for years. You know, we do this every week since 2020 Okay? And you know, AMG is twice a year. And I kept saying, you know he could have, you know the you know, you know they have you

Unknown Speaker  1:39:15
talk to them. I know the answer. I know.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:18
Alright next week. Just to let you know, next week, we have Dr Shallenberger, he's going to be talking to us about ozone, and that'll be next week, and after that, we were supposed to have to I have Dr Quinn again. So I have, I have July 1 open. So if nobody's, if I can't, can't find anybody, we're going to have to lean on Doctor narrow, I guess, like we always do. So, okay, so, but, but thank you a lot. Doctor de Silva, this was really fabulous, and we really appreciate it. And you know, I know everybody here is you know, is appreciative of the fact of your time and and your and your knowledge and and they won't hold it against you that you grew up in Philadelphia like I did. Thanks. Thank you so much. Okay, thanks, thank you. Okay, anybody else have any any comments or

Speaker 4  1:40:14
questions? Yes. My next question was, you said that you will tell us of recording about how to test the mitochondria.

Speaker 1  1:40:26
I will have to get, I will have to get you the name of that test. I gave you my phone number, text me and I'll get you the name of the test.

Speaker 4  1:40:34
Okay, with they were talking about organic acid test. And I think this

Bill Clearfield  1:40:42
is completely different. This is completely different. Yeah, it's not like, it's not like these biological aging tests, is it? You know, no, that's nothing like that, right?

Speaker 1  1:40:52
Yeah. This is very specific for mitochondria. Okay, all right, folks, thanks. Good

Bill Clearfield  1:40:56
night. Thank you so much. Thank you. Alright, thank you. Okay. Anybody else have any comments or questions So Stefan and I were on with the alternative medicine and Integrative Health Group in London. I was home. I was glad I was home, because they that was not, not, not the, not the greatest of any I think he left early. He it was, it was mainly, he said, mainly. He said voodoo and folks selling was basically it. So I'm glad I didn't

Unknown Speaker  1:41:33
go all the way to London for there goes that next

Bill Clearfield  1:41:35
invitation, huh? Yeah, there goes that. And so, so there's that, and I am going to have my five minutes of fame at the androgen society with Dr Morgan teller on now I'm on July 10, at 10, at 11:20am for exactly five minutes they gave me so

Unknown Speaker  1:41:57
this we practice.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:01
So excited about this opportunity, yeah, we went Dr nary, and I went over the over what I'm going to speak about. So I got exactly three minutes to talk and two minutes for questions and answers and that it's supposed to be on testosterone for women. Clinical applications of testosterone for women. Now this is after three hours of lectures on testosterone for women, and so I've tried to figure out what I'm going to say in five minutes that will will will be

Speaker 3  1:42:34
of use, of use to them. So you got this, you've trained more than man and Pacquiao for this fight. So, yeah. I mean, we did this so many times.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:42
Yeah, so, but, you know, after three hours of it from and you know, these folks are all from Yale and Harvard, and, you know, these are the active editions. I mean, what am I going to what am I going to say them? So I pulled out some of my, some of my accolades from from the either medical charts or or, you know what I got from physicians like I pulled out I've, I know, I've shown some of you the ones that were the endocrinologist who said that one, there was quote on in capital letters, no indications for testosterone, for women in it for any reason, and there were no peer reviewed studies. So I pulled out 236 peer reviewed studies, and I have them listed, and then I have, I actually pulled out a new list of 100 that have been published since 2010 to present so and then the the other one was the gynecologist who gave us three years worth of things to do before prescribing testosterone for females. And so I pulled that one out too, so we'll let them know what goes on in the real world. And the one with the endocrinologist who called me, quote, a shaman and a disgrace to my degree. So, so, so that's why 10th and 11th in San Francisco, if you want to come to the androgen society, I think they're, I think they're very, they're very serious about this. So somebody's got to inject a little levity. So, so we'll do that. No worry, yeah, we'll show them. Let's see. Let's say Dr Gundry says, oh, MCT oil increases, mitochondria, yeah. And anything else? Uh, yeah, Andrew's a question. And yeah, this is an androgen society, and that they talk about androgens, so any, anything and everything called, called Andrew, you look it up androgen

Speaker 3  1:44:44
society, that's yeah. So he's stepping into uncharted territories here. That's why he's trying to get

Bill Clearfield  1:44:49
a good impression. I'm trying. I'm trying to get our rag tag group, you know, in with the in with the active edition. So we'll either we'll either be in, in like Flint, or they'll never, we'll never hear from them again. So so I have a, I have a, should I say, pull up the slideshow that the cover slide. There is anybody interested? I mean, let me, let me pull that up here for you and see what you think.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:21
By the way, that's a good news got for

Bill Clearfield  1:45:23
aos i am, oh yeah, I've been pulling around with the logos too, just for just, just because. So, you guys, you

Speaker 2  1:45:35
like the last one? Yeah, yeah, I thought it was good.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:41
Okay, I'm not. I think this is it here. Yeah, so here's my cover. So, and as you can see here, my five minutes of fame right there. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:00
and the movie

Bill Clearfield  1:46:01
movie intro, yeah, it's kind of a movie intro here. So, and you know, here's your relevant disclosures. They got nothing on me. I got some myths and facts female testosterone biosynthesis. So a couple of myths and facts here and benefits. I actually have them, peer reviewed, cardiovascular health, breast cancer, health, vasomotor health attenuates inflammatory cytokines, physical symptoms, chronic fatigue, of deficiency, chronic fatigue, muscle weakness, bone loss, thin thinning, skin, vaginal atrophy, vaginal dryness, memory loss, cognitive function, apathy, diminished libido, diminished sexual function. Here are the references for that. This is menopausal Marie. She's depressed. She has Hashimotos, thyroiditis, and she's got low testosterone levels. Here is her testosterone levels, 1.3 free, 19 total, and sure we want 30 to 40. Here's our Hashimotos here. This is what we did for her. We did all this stuff. We gave her just one milligram per day, one day, and we went in. It's eight weeks. We went from 19 to 32 which is therapeutic. The HTA went from 77 to 152 and her EP ratios are now balanced. Here. Everything is better. This was the patient chart that I got back from the endocrinologist says everything is everything is good. Here's the gynec is what the gynecologist said to do, vasomotor symptoms, uh, lifestyle changes, dysperunia, uh, low dose vaginal estrogen and lubricants, incontinence, pelvic floor exercises, pelvic thing, uh, medication, treatment and therapy, depression and anxiety. I think I went over five five minutes already, didn't I psychotherapy, relationship give you a hook, relationship, conflicts, counseling, sex therapy, medications, SSRIs and psycho pharmacy. Here's the chart I had the pleasure of seeing what's her name, any questions call here, her main issue was malaise and fatigue. Apparently, all I ordered was vitamins and minerals. If you go back, I think I ordered one vitamin and vitamin D and zinc were the two mineral vitamin and mineral I ordered so and here, here's the here's the bottom line. Dr Clearfield is a shaman playing on the placebo effect, as, my opinion, is a shame. This is a patient chart, by the way, he's a do and disgraces the degree we reviewed. There's no peer reviewed literature supporting the use of androgens in women for any reason. And so here are 100 peer reviewed charts that references that don't exist, and five top landmark ones. And that's the end. I guess it's my five minutes. But I put in another 131 just for good measure, just in case the 100, the first 100, weren't enough. And so there's 236, total, and that's it. That's my five minutes of fame.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:17
What do you think you win? All right,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:21
so that's it. You don't have to pay the $500 to go to the engine society. That's

Unknown Speaker  1:49:28
it. That's it in a nutshell.

Speaker 3  1:49:29
Thank you. I don't think they have enough time to throw tomatoes at you, so five minutes is

Bill Clearfield  1:49:36
just so what you don't know is that at the end of August in Pittston, Pennsylvania, which is halfway between Wilkes Barre and Scranton, where I lived for 30 years, there's a big it's a tomato Festival, and on Saturday mornings, they hand out their two teams. They split and split into two teams, and they stand across the road from each other, and you throw tomatoes, and you get you get dressed in a in a helmet and a smock, and we throw tomatoes at each other so we can get some of

Speaker 3  1:50:02
the tomatoes. You got your dose through Reggie, your lifetime dose. Somebody

Bill Clearfield  1:50:10
asked how to join the Android society. Go to androgensociety.com, and they'll be happy to have you. So this was first time I got invited there to do anything, and now you've seen it, so I don't know, yay, nay, thumbs up, thumbs down. I mean, what? What am I supposed to do in five minutes after they've had three hours of lectures on the using the testosterone.

Speaker 3  1:50:36
I don't want else to tell you're icing on the cake. How about that? Except

Bill Clearfield  1:50:40
the best for last, best for last, or they had an extra five minutes. They had to fill in some I'll take the first one. Yeah, John, any any fallout from the from the

Speaker 2  1:50:53
from before. 100% good. And you had mentioned having another meeting with our

Bill Clearfield  1:51:00
crowd sometime. We're gonna, we're gonna, kind of put that together. And somebody's asking about the name of that. Look up androgens, the androgen society and look under events.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:17
There it

Unknown Speaker  1:51:20
goes. I lost it.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:27
Okay, androgen society, events, No, I'm talking, yeah, go ahead, John. And there it is,

Speaker 2  1:51:36
okay, right there. Kind of about you were saying doing something with the Nevada State Medical Association,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:41
yeah, yeah. So yeah. Somebody asked about the androgen Society meeting. How to find it. Here it is. I'm sorry, Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association, us and the Nevada homeopathic crew, Dr Gerber and Dr Nario and Dr Fung their crew. I'm going to put it, try and put it all together, and we're going to, I'm going to shoot for the middle of November, so we have five months to put it together. We'll find a venue, we'll get some speakers, and we'll, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:20
do it upright.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:22
Alright, okay, okay, here's the androgen society, if you want androgen society, and just look for events. And there it is, thank you. Thank you, doctor, there you go. Yeah, it'd be nice to see you there. So anyway, like I said, next week, Dr Shallenberger, he, you know, he's, he's, you know, Mr. Ozu and I was at his conference at the at the beginning of May and and they, there, they, there are people also, you know, they they're like minded, like us. And we had a really nice time there, and we made some really great contacts. So make sure you're on next week, and we'll be here same time, same station, and then after that, I'm booging out to go visit my grand grandchildren. I'm taking the red eye right after we're done here next Tuesday. So if Dr Shallenberger goes too long, I might have to leave a little early. So that's a, that's a that's a warning. That's a heads up. Dr Nario, got you covered. Okay, all right, I'll have the videos up as soon as I can. It's on our website. Is aosrd.org aosrd.org/webinars okay, it's also one YouTube channel that's Clearfield Medical Group on

Unknown Speaker  1:53:44
YouTube.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:50
Sorry, I took that one myself and the CME credits, let me, let me copy that again, one more time

Unknown Speaker  1:54:01
for you. Here it is,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:06
and it's $50 I know the price went up. We don't get anything for any of it. So Don't yell at me. Yell at Dr alasa, and here's that, and there's that, there's the link there. Okay, so I'm a little bit behind when I'm doing the weekly newsletter to get the the emails up, the email, the link up for the for the CME credits, but I'll try and catch up this week. So alrighty, anything else? Anybody else? Thank you. How are things? How things in your end? Carol,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:49
I know you're there.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:51
Yeah, I'm here. Very good, yeah. How's Quicksilver?

Speaker 7  1:54:54
They're, they're, they're doing well, um, coming, coming soon are going to be peptides and sublingual peptides. Have you seen the copper GHK, and they have, they're going to have BPC, no. Carol, yeah, I'm a consultant to them, particularly

Speaker 3  1:55:17
with the hormones. With Chris trade,

Speaker 7  1:55:21
yep, I'm gonna have a neural pregnant alone, coming out soon, with pregnant alone and ginkgo. Now some other herbs. He loves throwing together a

Bill Clearfield  1:55:36
bunch of herbs with stuff. Oh yeah, we, we like, we used your GHK, we've had some pretty good success with it, with um, toenail fungus,

Speaker 7  1:55:45
believe it or not, really just just paint

Bill Clearfield  1:55:50
it on the toenail, painted on the toenails. I mean, you know, four to five days it takes it

Speaker 3  1:55:55
right away. So, oh, here's an Andrew wild tip tea tree oil. You can use that for fungal fungus in

Bill Clearfield  1:56:02
the nails. Yeah, we knew that one years ago. Did you come

Speaker 7  1:56:09
up? That's a hard one. And they're combining VPC with TB 500 and KVP one with that combo. And I don't know what else is coming. So actually, it's very nice in that sublingual formula.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:29
Okay, they're venturing into the peptides. So it's going to get more expensive.

Speaker 7  1:56:32
Is that what it is? No it's not going to be it's going to be less expensive than injectable and good absorption. I told Chris years ago to get into this, because of all the FDA attacking with with pharmacies, they said you have an opening, because these are natural substances. So if you would have like, a line of peptides with your nano emulsion base, you should be able to do that just fine. And it's true. I see Jay camp Campbell's got some stuff. Yeah, peptide strips. Did

Bill Clearfield  1:57:17
you see that? What is that? Yeah, I haven't talked to him in a while, so, so I haven't recovered from the last, our last talk. That was a lot of stuff, yeah, let's just say he's, he's, he's, uh, he's not, he's not. He's not shy about this. His opinion. He apparently it was after the video was, was shut off, and he lambasted. He was, he was saying not nice things to one of and she was actually one of my students. Was Kylie. She was very upset. I don't think she's been on since, actually,

Speaker 3  1:57:59
the topic was that good. That's probably what it is. It's all intellectual conversation

Bill Clearfield  1:58:03
after after that topic, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:07
she was done. So,

Speaker 3  1:58:12
alright, okay, oh, Carol, since you're hanging out with Chris shade, maybe you can invite him over. He could be one of

Unknown Speaker  1:58:18
our peeps here too.

Speaker 1  1:58:20
Be happy to All right. All right.

Speaker 4  1:58:25
Carol, Dr Clearfield, you said two weeks ago you treat tinitas With

Unknown Speaker  1:58:30
what

Unknown Speaker  1:58:34
the 90s? Yeah, that it's a doctor that has denied

Unknown Speaker  1:58:36
us. And yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:41
yeah, we've been doing a combination of things. So we're doing the transcranial magnetic stimulation. We did it every day. We did anywhere from 18 to 25 minutes the system sets, depending on this, on the patient's sensitivity, about 18 to 25 minutes. We did it five days a week for three weeks, we did battle. You know what battlefield acupuncture is? There's a little tiny gold needles. We put them in the outer part of the ear, on both sides. If you don't know, I can do a talk on that here one night. I can show you how to I can. I can at least give you the the P's and Q's if you know what that is, if you don't like I can we, can we can show I can show you, you really need a little hands on, but we can show you. I can show you you know where the points are and why we use them, and that would be a good thing to do at our in

Unknown Speaker  1:59:35
November. John,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:38
you know a demo we use. I've been using Dr Gordon's neuro protective mushrooms. So it's, it's the six big mushrooms. I think I remember them all. I know it's Lion's Mane, Rishi, Chaga, those are three. Yeah, the mushrooms of combination,

Speaker 6  2:00:01
my talkie, shitake, cortisone. Yeah,

Speaker 7  2:00:07
you got that. We see an association with insulin resistance and tinnitus.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:11
Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So that. And then I've been using the BPC, TB, 500 injectable, and I've been injecting it in in the acupuncture points around the ear that are tender. And I'm finding there's a TMJ point on the on the trapezius that the acupuncture point that you find by if you put your your thumb in the patient's ear and let your fingers drop to the trapezius, one of those points on the trapezius will be tender, and that's where I'll inject. So I do those four things. And so far, I mean, we have a limited number of patients. We we had five, six patients. We've had four of them complete the three weeks, all of the all of those four had anywhere from on a scale of one to 10. They all started out on daily between it was an average of 7.8 to 9.2 and on the and that was pretty much on a daily basis. They now have approximately three days a week where they're down to about a one 1.5 to a 2.5 and the worst day on the worst patient, it was, was a 6.5 and it seems to do with atmospheric pressure. So that's four out of the 611. Is still in just, actually, just got started this week, and one dropped out and said it wasn't helping her. So I don't know how you how you quantify that? I mean, it's a limited sample,

Speaker 3  2:01:56
but that's what we're doing. You're gonna write a paper about this

Unknown Speaker  2:01:59
eventually,

Speaker 4  2:02:02
and what is the underlying mechanism for the teen eaters? I heard some studies. They said that it's associated

Unknown Speaker  2:02:10
with dementia, but

Bill Clearfield  2:02:14
all of them dementia, them, dementia would be, you know, down the road from, you know, you know, an end product from this. So it's usually, you know, vascular, you know, insufficiency and or head trauma. Those are, those are probably the two, two main etiologies. And with by far, the ones that we've seen are all, you know, vascular insufficiency and, and they failed everything else so, and, and, quite frankly, at least in this area, the only thing they're really offered anymore is hearing aid. That's what they're that's what they're offered, that that's the treatment. So, so they've all had, they've at one point or another, they've all had meclizine. They've all had what's the posterior pituitary tumor? It's a not too posterior pituitary, not oxytocin the other one. Yeah, they've all had Desmo Preston. They've all had and and they've had other, you know, they've been other places, you know, a lot of them so, so they were all failures when they got here. We have, at the moment, four good cases, one bad case, and one pending, so we'll see how it goes.

Speaker 4  2:03:36
So BPC also creates new blood vessels. BPC, they said, causes angiogenesis, and it's anti inflammatory. It's good for dementia. They said it's one of the best peptides.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:51
You know, it's not one of the brain peptides. It's, it's a potent anti inflammatory. I mean, that's my understanding of it. You know, the brain peptides would be cerebral license. So Lankans and C max, and I think we were using an acetylated C max, but they're hard to get now, and they're really expensive, you know, they were part of the FDA, you know, you're not allowed to use this because it worked for against COVID. So they got thrown out. You know, we had had BPC in our when we were doing our semi glutite formulas for the counter, the side effects from the, you know, the GLP ones, and they made us take take it, take that out, also

Speaker 3  2:04:39
pertaining to the ability of BPC to cross the blood brain barrier. So it does have that ability TBI, I think, was also something that BPC is being used on. So, yeah, there's probably some indirect actions of BPC Petronella, you're

Speaker 4  2:04:52
right, and also with to clean the arteries from atherosclerosis. There were some studies with about 1000 people with nattokinase, about 10,200 units, plus aspirin plus k2 they said that it removed atherosclerosis about in a proportion of about 85 99% they said it can clean the arteries. The enzymes, the nattokinase.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:23
Well, that's, that's Dr McCullough. Is what spike protein protocol there, nattokinase, I think bromelain and curcumin. I

Unknown Speaker  2:05:38
think that's what's the

Speaker 4  2:05:41
so they, there was a study, and if you put on the internet, nattokinase, 10,200 or 400 units, and then plus k2 and aspirin to remove atherosclerosis. They said that after three or four months, when the patients took it, it cleaned the it cleans the arteries and removes atherosclerosis in a proportion of 85 to 99% something like that, very high. And nattokinase, Dr Peter mccarlo, he's using only 2000 units. And I heard that it saved up to 8000 80,000 units, somebody said. And then Dr Anna Maria mihaljah, she gives to the patients about 20,000 units. Is she talking a video on ramble that I watch her, so it's a big difference. I also give to somebody took it and they took about the 4000 units, about they took about three of them a day, about 10,000 units, much higher dose.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:05
Well, I think that Dr McCullough is 5000 units, twice a day, or 5000 whatever

Speaker 4  2:07:10
that when he because I bought the supplements from Duck and Peter moncal. It's only 2000 it was before, but I

Unknown Speaker  2:07:18
one year ago,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:22
it was nattokinase, aspirin.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:23
What was the third thing? K2

Speaker 4  2:07:25
k2 and aspirin. They give this and it removes, yeah. And then I saw patients in the in Chinese stores, they have natto. They call it Japanese Natto, because I went there. And so I went to see a patient in Queens one time, and she looks so young. She was so like, she looked different than the patients of her age. And while I was talking to her, she was using Natto, which has bacillus subtilis, and they have natto in it's even very cheap. They have many it's like yogurt, like small yogurt, achividia, but they have natto and it's, it's, she was using that every day eating, but it tastes very good. Dr da Silva, he said, it doesn't take taste good, but it

Unknown Speaker  2:08:23
tastes good. It has

Speaker 4  2:08:28
in all the Chinese store they have, like, if you ask Japanese NATO, do you have it, they you can get it, and it's not expensive, maybe $3 you get a lot of them then. So, yeah, so that might be important for our thinking immunity. Bacillus subtilis, they said it's very important for immunity and for to clean the artery

Unknown Speaker  2:08:54
atherosclerosis.

Speaker 3  2:08:58
Yeah, it's the one that's the spore probiotics. Now it's all bacillus subtilis based so but yeah, I

Speaker 4  2:09:06
heard good things about it, and I know doctor I was one time in a webinar with Doctor

Unknown Speaker  2:09:13
from Duke

Speaker 4  2:09:15
Dale Bredesen. And he had Dr Dave Bredesen, he said he takes for the cholesterol, picogenol, 100 milligrams, and then he takes nattokinase. He said he takes natokines up, I think 2000 units, or not a high dose, like 2000 units, it's about 100 milligrams, because it comes units or

Unknown Speaker  2:09:44
milligrams. Yeah, he's the Alzheimer's specialist.

Speaker 4  2:09:52
Yeah, he offers also a course how to reverse cognitive decline, and he talks about he does training for doctors, and one of the doctors who comes for the conferences with anti aging medicine, he's Dr Nielsen. He he took his course, and so he does a record course, and it's about how to reverse cognitive decline. And

Unknown Speaker  2:10:23
you can be, I think, an approved practitioner when

Speaker 4  2:10:25
you do the training. Oh, yeah, yeah, somehow you can treat patients that get in touch with him. And he also came up with some supplements, about $300 a month. I think it's that you they need. People can buy his supplements also and try to

Bill Clearfield  2:10:42
help with this. Alrighty, great. Alright. So I put a little, just a little, you know, highlight of

Unknown Speaker  2:10:52
each thing there so?

Bill Clearfield  2:10:54
Doctor Clearfield, yes.

Speaker 6  2:10:56
Doctor Gerber, hi, hi, great show. What was the tote? This is terribly important, but the toenail fungus stuff was G H,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:05
F, G H, K, dash CU, copper,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:11
g h, k, dash

Bill Clearfield  2:11:12
U, copper. See you, it's dash

Unknown Speaker  2:11:16
CU, which is copper,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:19
and you use the one from Quicksilver

Bill Clearfield  2:11:20
for it. I use the one Quicksilver, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:25
that topical or sublingual.

Speaker 7  2:11:29
It's it's meant to be sublingual, or that's how it's labeled, but you can use it topically,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:35
nice. I think he gave it to me, actually the last time we

Unknown Speaker  2:11:43
were together, that's a great pearl.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:47
Yeah. So yeah, it works like a charm. Thanks. Then they go back, they go back, they go back and eat their candy, and then the fungus comes back, and we get to use it again, but it clears

Unknown Speaker  2:12:03
it. Clears it up, real nice,

Bill Clearfield  2:12:04
a lot cheaper than the laser lady next to who's next door. You know, doing laser, laser for fungus is

Speaker 2  2:12:11
toenail focus. So

Speaker 4  2:12:15
anyway, anybody else? Yeah, there is an NIH, effective management of atherosclerosis progress and hyperlipidemia with nattokinase, a clinical study with 1062 participants. And here they took it's published in NIH that they took it and 10,800 fu per day, and then the results of it. But I remember I used to see because I used to tell the patients, take nattokinase, take this. I was telling them to try this, and one time I saw something on YouTube, a doctor was saying that they don't have large study because they were not approved. But there was a study done about 1000

Speaker 7  2:13:12
people. You have the PMDD number on that for the study. Yeah,

Speaker 4  2:13:18
are you looking at it? Okay, just one second not to kinase with aspirin.

Speaker 4  2:13:28
So even if you okay, do

Speaker 4  2:13:39
uh, it is frontier in cardiovascular medicine. This was front cardiovascular medicine, 2022 August, 22 and then just one second. So it says DOI, and it's 10, 3389, slash. But if you put on Google, because this is how I bring it, brought it up. If you put on Google, natokines, 10,200 units with plus aspirin and k2

Bill Clearfield  2:14:18
it, it brings up the study. Okay, okay, I'm looking at a study here looks, looking for the dose. Here, you're, you're right about Dr Bucha only uses 2000 units twice a day so.

Speaker 4  2:14:39
And there is somebody that comes also, maybe lumbrokinase may

Unknown Speaker  2:14:44
be good too.

Speaker 4  2:14:46
Yeah, I've seen that also, and I heard that I spoke one time with a nutritionist, and she said they are very good. Enzymes are very good, also for cancer, okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  2:15:05
this article that I'm looking at for nit kinase for atherosclerosis, is 400 milligrams a day I'm looking at once. It's in NIH from 1920 18.

Speaker 4  2:15:18
So, yeah, milligrams. And then they use units, the conversion, I'm not sure, right, how many units? It's 100 milligrams.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:26
Yeah. So they said nattokinase is any other atherosclero sclerotic lipid lowering, reduces high blood pressure, degrades fiber directly, and neuroprotective and antiplatelet and anticoagulant. That's the effects.

Speaker 4  2:15:43
Okay, the conclusion of the study. In summary, our data from this largest clinical study involving 1062 participants such as the nattokinase or the daily dose of 10,800 Fu, which is higher than the recommended dose of 2000 Fu, is significantly effective in The management of atherosclerosis progression and

Bill Clearfield  2:16:08
hyperlipidemia.

Speaker 4  2:16:11
But and we also demonstrate that other factors, including lifestyle and CO use of vitamin k2 and aspirin, would contribute positively to the clinical outcome. But there was another article that I used to read, and it says that it removes that Oscar roses, it opened up the blood vessel. And I saw also Dr country talking one time. I heard him talking that. He said that before he he was a cardiologist, and he never knew that you can clean your arteries, but he had a patient with obstructed arteries, and he told him that he has to do, to put stands and all this, and then he he came back after a while, and he died. I don't know what he did, but he came back and he his obstruction improved in the Coronavirus.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:11
Yeah. Alright, so I got a, I got a bottle of nattokinase from ortho molecular. It's got 100 milligrams, or 2000 units, 60 pills. So I don't know if you can see where I'm holding it up. So we need five of those a day to so we gotta kind of concentrated

Speaker 4  2:17:34
one than that. I had, like my son, he took two moderna, and the school requested they do blood work. And he had increased creatinine 1.3 GFR decreased to 89 and then he was also drinking some mineral water. So I start giving him probiotics and not to kinase, but they told him to take high dose, like, like, I bought Luma nutrition, which was 4000 and they took three a day. I told them, but I heard that they even take, took four a day. He and his girlfriend also, they took it, and his kidney function improved, but I also give him stem region. And then after 10 days, it went down to creatinine, went down to one point, 22 and then after a month, he repeated, and it was about 90 and 0.9 so he took stem region, curcumin for inflammation, probiotics, nitric oxide. Nitric o said it's very good for the CKD, and also an acetyl system. It's very good for security. It's published, okay, so I give him 2400

Unknown Speaker  2:18:58
of NAC. All

Bill Clearfield  2:19:01
right, somebody put a link for the that article there in the chat. There

Speaker 6  2:19:08
nothing. Okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:13
get this lecture series

Speaker 6  2:19:15
together, right? You betcha. Quick comment. Since, if we were talking a little bit about arteriosclerosis, for those of us that have been chelating physicians for a long time, I started in 1976 it's interesting that the FDA just took off disodium EDTA as being a lawful commodity in the in the marketplace. Calcium, bdta is still allowed, but not disodium. And I haven't heard any rationale for that at all, but I think for us old key letters, it's pretty sad,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:54
yeah, well, same reason that BPC was taking it, you know that they hit too. So, right. So, alright, okay, everybody again next week, same time, same station. Dr Shallenberger will be this with us, and I hope you enjoy tonight. Dr Silva's superstar. He's a great guy, and he's a snappy dresser, too. So

Unknown Speaker  2:20:19
okay, thanks guys. So now that we're sharing,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:23
thank you all, and we will, I'll have the video up as soon as I can, on the on the website, and we will, you know, and we'll get the everything. everything else together that you need. Okay. All right. Good night everybody. Take care,

Unknown Speaker  2:20:39
John.

Unknown Speaker  2:20:40
Yeah man, thank you. Can I

Unknown Speaker  2:20:42
thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai