Bill Clearfield  00:24
Hey, there, hello. Were you on with halasa last night? I heard it was wild.

Speaker 1  00:31
Yeah, it was pretty wild. So I'm sorry

Bill Clearfield  00:35
I missed it. So they said, shell sent me a video. Maybe I'll watch it. So

Speaker 1  00:42
he was a, you know, a lot, so typical. I mean, you've been there before, you kind of know the deal.

Bill Clearfield  00:47
Yeah, they were getting into gender dysphoria and things like that.

Speaker 1  00:52
Yeah, yeah. I got him to admit that estrogen dominance makes the gay and that the transgender is haram.

Bill Clearfield  01:03
Okay, all right, well, I'm sure that went over big. So what are you up to? Anything exciting? I

Speaker 1  01:14
just working hard. So busy.

Bill Clearfield  01:19
You playing tennis at all? I am.

Speaker 1  01:21
I'm actually competing in a professional tournament next weekend here in Vero Beach. Nice. Yeah. So I've been training very hard and doing playing better. You know, I ran growth hormone for about eight months because Terry Hertog, you know, convinced me to do so, and I got too heavy. I went up to from 176 178 I went to 192 pounds. Okay? And I couldn't move on the court. I was losing to people I didn't lose to before. I'm like, Alright, this is something's gotta give here. So I stopped the growth hormone. I was injecting three units, and I went cold turkey. Now I'm back down to 181 I'm moving way better.

Bill Clearfield  02:03
All right, well, were you feeling stronger with it, or, Oh

Speaker 1  02:05
yeah, yeah, no, I was the biggest I'd ever been. Like, my muscle size was huge. People were like, Oh my God, you look huge. I look massive. I was strong. I was lifting heavy.

Bill Clearfield  02:19
Yeah, so, all right, but too heavy, huh?

Speaker 1  02:23
Too heavy. Not great for tennis. You know, I'm carrying around 10 more pounds on the tennis court trying to compete at the highest level. Especially, guess these kids, you know, they're like, 17 years old, and maybe they're 135 pounds, soaking wet, and I gotta hit against them and beat them in, you know, two hours in the Florida sun. It's not good carrying around 10 extra pounds. Well, you

Bill Clearfield  02:44
should be used to the Florida Sun by now. No, you never get

Unknown Speaker  02:47
used to it. I was there

Bill Clearfield  02:51
in june two years ago. I went to a wedding. I was there in March. It was really nice. And then it was there in June, and it was so hot you Could you step outside, and it's like walking into a wall of heat. And across the street from where I was staying, there were people outside playing tennis like it was nothing. I guess you kind of get used to it. I mean, I could barely breathe. I

Speaker 1  03:14
could barely breathe when I visited Arizona not too long ago. It was so hot at night, even I couldn't believe it.

Bill Clearfield  03:21
Yeah? Well, you come to come to Vegas in July, you know, we, we run that conference. You talked on zoom in South Lake a couple weeks ago. Yeah, in July. He has it in Vegas. It's 114 at midnight, yeah,

Speaker 1  03:39
he asked me to come to that one. I'm like, why don't you have it, like, somewhere nicer? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:46
so, like, Well, I mean that hot in Florida at that time of year too, isn't it? You got humidity. We

Speaker 1  03:53
never get above 100 rarely, especially here on the beach side, it just doesn't happen.

Bill Clearfield  04:01
Okay? So I'm seeing a couple of names. I don't I don't recognize there. Did you invite some friends? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:10
I got invited by John. Oh, there's Christy.

Bill Clearfield  04:16
All are welcome. So even

Speaker 2  04:20
though she the group where I identified myself as art, science and theology, I don't know. Do I fit here?

Bill Clearfield  04:28
I didn't quite hear you. What did you say? Oh, I said

Speaker 2  04:30
I came from another meeting that that John told us about, and I don't I guess this is it, because Christie's here too. I do art, science and theology. Is place for me.

Bill Clearfield  04:46
Well, we're going to be talking about peptides. So Stick, stick around, and you can always just say goodbye, you know, just hang up if you don't like it. Okay? It didn't cost anything, right? So yep, so sure then you are

Speaker 2  05:06
who me? Yeah, I'm Janet Brown, and I'm in Virginia, and welcome.

Unknown Speaker  05:15
We're happy to have you.

Unknown Speaker  05:18
Okay, we usually

Bill Clearfield  05:19
get started right around little after five. It's Dr Nario, where are you? You're there. Okay, let's make you the co host. Okay,

Speaker 1  05:34
sure. Are you gonna make me co host too? I'm gonna try to record it on my end,

Bill Clearfield  05:40
and I gotta be nice to you tonight. It's so out of character, you know? So how's okay? So Sarah is here. Sarah is my nurse now. She's my my injector. You you have your Logan. I have Sarah, but I'm not married to her. She's married to somebody else, so,

Unknown Speaker  06:05
oh, you have new staff in the office.

Bill Clearfield  06:07
Yeah? Mm, hmm, yeah. She does vein injections, sclerothera, Oh,

Unknown Speaker  06:16
scleros. She does some Botox

Bill Clearfield  06:19
and stuff, too nice.

Unknown Speaker  06:21
Yeah, yeah. Tomorrow

Bill Clearfield  06:23
night, we're doing a thing over at the at the sage and soul. We're doing an open house for patients with, with Cora,

Unknown Speaker  06:30
hmm, I heard you. Are

Bill Clearfield  06:32
you in in town? Are you in Arizona,

Speaker 3  06:36
in town? And we'll be going there march again. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  06:39
so you said they're they're bothering you. They're giving you a bother.

Unknown Speaker  06:46
They're making me work. How about that? Oh,

Bill Clearfield  06:48
well, you know, that's what you got. That's what school is, right?

Speaker 3  06:52
I know, like books, read your books, recitation and all those good things.

Bill Clearfield  06:58
So, so for some reason, I decided to spend some money, and I'm taking the IFM introductory course, which is kind of interesting. It's, yeah, I'm taking the IFM introductory course, and I don't know, I guess I had 15 minutes a day to spare, and so you pick up little nuggets here and there.

Unknown Speaker  07:24
So worth it.

Bill Clearfield  07:26
You know, there's some things that are it's mostly a review stuff that it, you know, learned 10 years ago and forgot

Speaker 3  07:36
it's your post. It you just described it posted there. Everything

Speaker 4  07:39
is review for Bill, yeah, everything is review. Hey. And by the way, our meditation crowd from the local university, a couple are joining us tonight, so Janet here, and Chrissy is here, and this is part of our meditation crowd. And,

Bill Clearfield  08:01
yeah, Janet asked if, if this was the right place for her. I said, Absolutely,

Unknown Speaker  08:06
and it is. I

Bill Clearfield  08:07
didn't know you would send her otherwise I would have told her something different.

Speaker 4  08:12
You'll be good. You'll be getting more. We gotta agree

Bill Clearfield  08:15
here. You don't take it personally. Janet, John and I sort of go back and forth to just, you know, just for the heck of it. So,

Speaker 4  08:23
yeah, we're kind of old, yeah, mature,

Bill Clearfield  08:27
sure. We don't say oh, we say mature, yeah, sure, yeah. Thank you very

Unknown Speaker  08:31
much. I say aging hippie.

Bill Clearfield  08:35
There's that. Dr Siegel's here too. So, Dr Smith, so,

Speaker 4  08:43
so we do, we do our Saturday research thing here with Marie and her farm and some other things, probably with the university. Well, our meditation crew is a mindfulness crew, and it's a program that's been started at the our local university or my old university. So there's a lot of interested in this type of thing, like meditation. Who are we and how can we get along? And there's a lot of cohabitation here with health. How can we be healthy, too?

Bill Clearfield  09:16
Okay, great. Okay, well, let's see. It's a little after five. Should we get started, or do we need some reports? So what's the report from the DR Nari? What's the report from Dr Weil and the integrative medicine world, the academic integrative medicine, those Dr Nari is taking the integrative what do they call it the alternative

Speaker 3  09:41
integrative fellowship, integrative medicine fellowship in University of Arizona. So we're so our topic this week was serving the underserved. So we're basically doing so many practical things. So one, one gem that I got from our lesson would be Knox gelatin. I don't know if you heard of that before, so it's something to use for cooking. And if you look at it, you're showing

Bill Clearfield  10:10
your age. John, I'm sure you know what KNOX gelatin is from a long

Unknown Speaker  10:16
time ago.

Speaker 3  10:18
Yes, yes, right. So they're saying, if you have issues spending money with glucosamine. So this is now something that you can do. It's not glucosamine, but the components of NOx gelatin are really more amino acids, like lysine, protein, hydroxyproline, all for hair, skin and nails. And the thing here is we are actually they're recommending 10 to 15 grams per day, or one to 1.5 packets of NOx gelatin daily, if you can't afford to buy your glucosamine. So that's basically $1 per day, if you kind of compute that. And it's actually best mixed with the hot water, coffee, tea or smoothie for better absorption, and best taken with vitamin C. It helps with collagen synthesis. And again, these are your collagen peptides, if you remember, if by like vital PEP, yes, what is this? Vital Proteins? Those are pretty expensive collagen products, but if you want yourself to kind of get more of a cheaper approach for gelatin, for collagen replacement, there's a way to go. And the studies had shown around eight to 12 weeks use of this would be good enough for, again, collagen repair. So that's one of the things that, I guess, practical tips for the underserved that kind of stuck out for me. All

Bill Clearfield  11:37
i All I remember is, if my parents were having a bad week we couldn't afford jello for for dessert, we would get Knox gelatin, and they would, my mother would cook it up and put it in the refrigerator so it looked like jello and coloring.

Speaker 3  11:51
Steve, now you know she's she's really up for your best interest, because this is actually a healthy product. I didn't even know about it.

Bill Clearfield  11:58
Well, what you didn't grow up in Philadelphia in 1962 you wouldn't know.

Unknown Speaker  12:04
No, that's a little too far.

Bill Clearfield  12:08
Those of us with with the silvered hair, know about docs gelatin. This is nothing,

Speaker 2  12:15
but I'm glad to know think about not having all the sugar that's in Jell. O,

Speaker 3  12:23
right. Well, that's a good Kayla had a good observation here, so she's saying that glucosamine is cheaper. So as I mentioned to you, this is actually best used with glucosamine, because glucosamines are actually for cartilage maintenance, and gelatin is for collagen support. So again, when you talk about, I'm, I think I'm comparing this to Vital Proteins, the product that they're selling, how much expensive that collagen peptide product is, if you want, really to be just so be affordable about it. This is something that you can definitely

Speaker 4  12:58
use. 20 years ago, it was three things for anything orthopedics or pain, and that was a glucosamine, chondroitin and MSM. That was kind of the mainstay for everybody for a while, long while.

Speaker 3  13:14
Yeah, and that's still available out there. It's emu blue. I don't know if you're you know that that's in Walmart. It's in a cream form, and that's also MSM that you can actually apply in on inflammation. So it's a cheap product.

Bill Clearfield  13:29
Okay, alright, okay. Thank you. Thank you for the thank thank you for the the update. We've always, always excited to hear about the what's going academic world. So

Speaker 3  13:46
okay, I don't know if that's super academic, but okay, Mister

Bill Clearfield  13:50
Doctor Hartman, front and center. So those of you tonight, we're going to have Stefan Hartman, who's probably one of the, one of the smartest guys I've come across since we started on this journey here next to you, John, of course. So tonight, Stefan is going to be talking about some peptides, particularly thymosa Alpha One and thymogen. And he's going to talk about some of the mechanisms of action and applications. Stefan is a certified physician assistant, the CEO of iron direct primary care. And he integrates anti aging medicine, regenerative medicine, directly into primary care. He's got a fantastic facility at his place. He's got a working gym. He can explain a little bit about some of that to us. And he's, he's, he's all over everything. He's our Mr. Iodine guy, and he's also a professional tennis player, so we gotta keep him in shape. Okay, so Stefan, I'm going to let you take it from there.

Speaker 1  14:58
Alright, thank you, Dr Clearfield, let's get started on this very exciting subject of the thymosin, Alpha One and thymotion. But we're primarily going to be focusing on the thymus and alpha one, because, as we'll find out, most of the literature is on that peptide. So why are we interested in this peptide? Because we're having a big epidemic of immunological problems and cancers. And this peptide is, you know, a natural peptide found in the human body. It's pretty easy to apply. There's relatively no known toxicities found with this product and and we could potentially find it even from natural sources that we could eat. So the thymus, it involutes As we age. This was identified back in Roman times. The surgeon Galen, he found that the children had thymus it was larger and that the older population had lower thymosis. So this was well known back then. Here's a demonstration. An image of the two has found you can see it on X ray imaging. If you do a pediatric X ray, you'll be like, what is that? Well, that's a thymus. And then you really don't see it on X ray imaging in older age. Let's look at some animal studies first, before we go to human studies, what happens if a young mammal has the thymus removed? Well, in short, they die. They need it because it helps their developing immune system and it helps them fight off all the illnesses that they're exposed to at a very young age. So there's a couple mechanisms behind this. The lack of thymus derived T lymphocytes results in severe symptoms of immune deficiency, and this makes them susceptible to common viruses. And we have other parts of our immune system, but even though other cells of the immune system, such as B lymphocytes and natural killer cells and monocytes and Mac fridges are still present in the body, animals still lose the ability to recognize and defend against pathogenic microorganisms and cancer cells. And I think that's one of the most powerful parts that we're going to learn about. For thymosin Alpha One is it helps your body identify the problem and attack it. And that seems to be, in my practice, the big problem that patients have is their immune system just isn't fighting off things like they should. So let's talk about the current known uses, and there's even FDA approval for this medicine or drug. In FDA cases, it's a peptide chain. There's a couple peptides that the thymus produces, but we're going to focus on this lecture on thymosin alpha one. It's known. Brand name that is idaxin, as approved in 2006 to treat hepatitis BC and and it helps in in chemotherapy. It's 28 amino acid lung chain of peptide. It was first isolated from bovine thymus gland back in 1977 recent studies have used it for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, C, HIV, cytomegalovirus, invasive fungal infections, and it's used as an adjunct in chemotherapy. The pharmacodynamics, the it stimulates the T cell production and maturation. Mechanism of action. Let's talk a little bit about that. In vivo, administration of thymosin alpha one to animals immunosuppressed by chemotherapy, tumor burden or irradiation showed that thymosin Alpha One protects against cytotoxic damage to bone marrow, tumor progression and opportunistic infections, thereby increasing survival, time and number of survivals thymosin Alpha One has been interpreted as either influences on either differentiation of pluripotent stem cells to thymocytes, or activation of thymocytes into activated T cells. Absorption is readily absorbed after an injection and achieves peak levels in the blood after about two hours. There's no known toxicity, even when animals have been overdosed with this product about 800 times the clinical dose, still no adverse effects found in animal studies, and there's been no real human adverse effects found in studies either. Now I've actually eaten this before. This is called thymus, and you can get this I've eaten bison thymus before. It's this little, Fatty, little substance, and I just ate it raw because I really didn't know how else to eat it. And I started chewing on it, and I could never actually chew it, so I just swallowed the thing. And I did this because, from the Chinese proverb, eat the organ you want to heal, and I wanted to improve my immune system at the time, where organ meats are extremely beneficial a thymus, beside the potential peptides that you could acquire from eating it raw is a good source of protein B, 12, pantothenic acid, phosphorus and selenium, and a surprisingly good source of vitamin C, where typical animal meats don't have vitamin C. But the reason I didn't cook it is because when you heat a peptide, you denature it, and you could potentially eliminate any benefit you might consume otherwise by eating a raw bison thymus. So I was hoping to acquire all the peptides of the thymus by eating this. Let's look at some of the broad applications and studies that have been done over the years on thymosin alpha one, hepatitis C served as mono therapy to to help, you know, treat these patients. That's probably the one. Is the known uses for this, the biggest if it is B sepsis significantly decreased mortality due to multiple organ failure. HIV infection enhances the function and increases the number of CD four cells, decreases viral load and influences thymic T cell output. Pseudomonas infection significantly decreases the infection rates with white blood cell counts and C reactive protein mold toxicity activate the production of th, two cytokines, stimulating phagocytic activity so the body can go out and take care of the disease. In cancer and chemotherapy. There's a lot of studies on this and how it just it's not like a standalone therapy, but it works synergistically with chemotherapies, both to protect the body's own cells, but to also help the chemotherapy even work better. And then immune deficiency diseases. So immune deficiency, it stimulates ILT receptor expressions, stimulating the signaling pathways and initiates the production of immune related cytokines, improving the functioning of the immune system without causing side effects. And in auto immune diseases and experimental animal models of MS multiple sclerosis, ta one has shown effectiveness in promoting myelin repair and providing neuronal protection in pediatric patient with Crohn's disease achieve clinical remission, and then there's also some use in boosting vaccine efficacy. So thalamus and Alpha One is a biological response modifier ta one is therefore expected to have clinical benefits and disorders where immune responses are impaired or ineffective. These disorders include acute and chronic infections in cancers. Ta one has been shown to restore immune functions and help to reduce the mortality in patients with severe sepsis. So a big problem in ICU is even though you can get the patient through the acute infection because of the experience, they can often die afterwards, and they don't thrive after a sepsis event. Thiamousin Alpha One also helps modify a hyperactive immune response, and so it was studied in the pandemic for SARS COVID, two by the Chinese and others. And there was varying is a bit controversial in that pandemic. It was it never gotten to the prime time, and the medicine was actually suppressed, and you couldn't actually put on your website that you could use thymosin Alpha. One other is you'd have the FDA knocking on your door. So this was a suppressed medicine and wasn't didn't really get broad recognition. But there's a lot of mechanisms for why it was helpful for the cytokine storm. The thing was, in alpha one, without overstimulation of cytokine production is well tolerated as good side effect profile, ta, one for melanoma. So objective response rate, we have to first characterize what this means is a key endpoint in cancer clinical trials, in measuring the percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatments. So complete response where all signs of cancer disappeared, or posture response where there is a measurable reduction the size of the cancer, but not a complete disappearance. So taking that into consideration, a European multi center study 571 patients with stage four melanoma, where thymosin Alpha One was administered along with a chemotherapy drug, the study found that the highest objective response rate were in groups receiving thymosin alpha one at 3.2 milligrams. An additional study in Italy, thymosin alpha one combined with chemotherapies led to 50% objective response, rate and duration of response 13.5 months. So that's significantly higher than historical control. So these people did better, and they survived longer when you use famous alpha one with chemotherapies,

Speaker 1  24:54
ta one in small cell lung cancers. Ta, one improve the immune system in non small cell lung cancer patients post radiation therapy. So ta one is administered bi weekly or daily for 14 days following and followed by bi weekly maintenance. This treatment regimen led to a significant improvements in relapse free survival and overall survival without any associated toxicity. Another trial, Gastro, 1043, investigative one's efficacy in combination with concurrent chemo, radiation therapy for localized, non small cell lung cancer, weekly families. NF, one administration significantly reduced the incidence a grade greater than two radiation pneumonitis and severe lymphopenia, which means suppression of the immune system. Let's look at thymosin alpha one for liver cancer. 468 patients between May 2010 and April 2016 those treated with thymosin alpha one after surgery for a single Hepatitis B virus related cancer showed significant improvements. Another study, patients receiving the most enough one had better disease free survival and overall survival when they use them with enough one. So it improves the prognosis of these patients with even with curative surgery. Thymosta one in breast cancer, ta one was found to reverse the m2 polarization of these macrophages would typically promote tumor growth through il 10 production during Eph rosecytosis, a process involving the clearance of apoptotic cells. So ca one. Temasek, one helps clear the dead cells, reduces il 10 and enhances the function of CD four and CD 8t cells, ta one with chemotherapy drug epirubis, that this combination therapy could suppress tumor growth. So there's thing that T one's mechanism action breast cancer involves modulating immune response to enhance the chemotherapy effectiveness. So let's explain more of the mechanism action for you know if Dr Halas is in the chat. So we have to go back to pathophysiology 101 class, and we have to remember what a dendritic cell is. So this purple cell here in the middle represents a dendritic cell. And what thymosin alpha one does is it teaches these dendritic cells to recognize pathogens and cancers, and so it puts the dendritic cell then takes these and then presents it to the T cells and says, Hey, this is a cancer cell. This is an Epstein Barr Virus. You need to take care of this and get rid of this. And so it helps that process. It teaches the immune system what to do a little bit better. And so a lot of these patients with the chronic illness and the chronic the cancer, the big question is, why aren't they clearing this like another person? Because we develop cancer cells every day. We're exposed to viruses every day. And there's a whole group of patients that just don't clear this stuff, and they have chronic disease from it. So the thymosin alpha one, it retrains your dendritic cells and your immune system to do what they should be doing in the first place. So the TA one, it accelerates dendritic cell maturation, so it enhances this process. Okay, uh, let's see. This was in COVID 19 infection and in thymosin alpha one. We talked a little bit about this, so how some of these studies maybe didn't get prime time and maybe were suppressed. Now there's an oral version of this peptide. It's called thymogen. Doesn't have as much extensive research as thymosin alpha one, mostly some studies in Russia with thymogen and but it has a similar benefits. Um, there are some that are extracted from calf thymus, but they're typically done synthetically. They're synthetic peptides. This is the molecule, but thymogen Alpha One is a synthetic formulation. It's not a calf extract. That's kind of clear. So this is kind of the few studies done on this thing in St Petersburg. What did they show here that the thymic peptides, epitalamin peptide, by regular disease in 266 elderly and older persons for 66 to eight years, the bio regulators were applied first two years of observation that obtained results convincingly showed the ability of the bio regulators to normalize the basic functions of the human organism, such as the cardiovascular, the endocrine, the immune, the nervous, the homeostasis and the metabolism. When they use this in Russia, it reduced the incidence of respiratory diseases, so infections, ischemic heart disease, hypertension, disease, osteoarthrosis, osteoporosis compared to the controls. So again, at some of the Russian studies, a lot of the Russians are doing these peptide therapies out there. Here's some slides from Kent Holtorf. He shared these with me. We talk about in chronic disease prevention and management group with halasa a lot about this immune polarization. This, this th 17, the th one, the T regs, where the immune system goes in one way and doesn't know how to deal with the chemical exposures, the pathogens and the cancers where we deal with every day. And this leads to an exhaustion, an exhaustion of the mitochondria, the hormones, and so these peptides, they can potentially re establish the body's ability to target these pathogens were exposed to every day, as I alluded to previously, the dendritic dendritic cell presentation. The thing was enough, one improves the body's ability to recognize pathogens and clear them. So if we can re establish the immune function, then the patient with the chronic illness, the chronic fatigue, the perpetual exhaustion, they may do better. So better immune health means better overall health and increased longevity, the toxins, the stress of age, the chronic infections trigger major immune dysfunction, which results in th one track and th two, th 17 shift. We're going to talk about some case theories, because I've been using this products over the past three years, so you can see some real life presentations, and kind of put this in the human perspective, rather than just the scientific studies. This is a 46 year old female who's done three rounds of thymosin alpha one with me, and she requests to go back on the peptide reporting she feels more balanced having it, especially before my women's cycle does the peptide helps me with my immune system as well? And obviously it does, because she says, I believe it's helping me. Slowly, I notice more when I'm not on it. I feel like I need another round. But yes, for me, it seems I'm not as moving, emotional, sensitive while taking the peptide. I always find these feedbacks interesting, because this patient maybe didn't understand this peptide very well, didn't do a lot of research on it, took it and then reported to me that it even helped her immune system, even though she didn't even understand that it's supposed to help the immune system. That was the intended effect. This is a 61 year old male. He had ground glass opacities post COVID. He had long COVID, and they cleared up after two rounds of thymosin alpha one. I don't have the CT reports, but this was what the patient reported to me. This is a 59 year old female. She had chronic asthma, six attacks a day. She was on montelukas budes Tonight, albuterol, but these were not working. She's having asthma text again after having gone off the thymosin alpha one. So the most in alpha one, it improved her her tolerance for asthma. But when she went off, it the asthma came back. So it didn't seem to last. We did a lot of things for her, and in the end, you know, she felt fantastic. She says she felt like a super one on thymosin alpha one. When she ran out of it, she would get a lot of asthma attacks. She was exposed to volatile chemicals. She had a new home build, and we thought, okay, there's no mold. Possibly. What's going on here? The volatile chemicals from the new home build was triggering her to have asthma. So when she got a better air conduction system in the house, and she got all this the fumes out. She no longer had the asthma, so that's what was going on there. So 49 year old female with chronic fatigue, water eyes, no taste, long COVID, thymozam Alpha One has made a great difference for the next few days. When she does an injection, the water eyes and itchiness improves. She knows this. It wears off at days three, and she doesn't feel as good on it. She has more energy. She wakes up with energy often. She feels that she's tired more easily. So this duration is typical. So when I dose thy most, not for one, we do a 1.5 milligram injection subcutaneous, and it seems to last every three days. So that's the dosing protocol that we used based off our experience here and some of the studies, the studies will show maybe once a week. Some will do it every day. Some will do it twice a week.

Speaker 1  34:30
This is a patient, a 40 year old, chronically with a URI upper respiratory infection every month. She gets sick again and again, congested, headache, long time exposure in a water damaged building, so she has multiple exposure. She's doing a long renovation. She's using oral thiamogen products. She says, When she finished the bottle of the peptide, it really helped her immune system. She felt amazing. Do I have to keep taking it? And I was like, Tell me more. I mean, you know, we need to find out how much you need this. She says, not her Sure, 100% of the thymogen all by itself. I'm in strength training. I'm doing a lot of things, doing carnivore, but she would get these URIs every month, but the thymogen helped to go away the next day. The congestions, they finally went away after she had them for months, and she's decreased headache frequency as well. So all these things, recurrent illnesses, headaches, weird symptoms. This is kind of classic for someone with a mold and a mycotoxin, and especially where I live in Florida, this is a very common problem I deal with. This is a 59 year old female. She's a diabetic type two insulin of 30, so she has high insulin levels. So this is insulin resistance, two weeks of an upper respiratory infection. It was not improving with two rounds of antibiotics and prednisone, she still come to my office, persistent, cough, fatigue, headache, earring, Misery. I did it. She says she did a second injection of NAD, noticed a little bit more energy, and then she did the thymosin injection, and she said it really helped her shortness of breath. As another patient, I'm just finishing up a month of the thymosin Alpha One peptides, I definitely seen improvements in my pots, like symptoms, and I'm able to stand or walk for longer periods of time than when I started. I still feel like I could improve more, so I was wondering if I'm able to do another month. So this is a patient mold exposure, again, biotoxin illness. She had high TGF beta one levels greater than 4800 indicating biotoxin exposure. She has fatigue, anxiety, palpitations. She had previously been diagnosed by a conventional cardiologist with pot syndrome, and so I put her on the thymol center alpha one. She says she has a huge improvement in her pot symptoms. She's also doing carnivore diet. So we always do conjunction we always do dietary changes for folks as well. And she feels very good doing that. This is a patient. I just saw her in the sauna today. She's dealt with chronic EBV for many years, and she says she feels very good with a protocol. She's doing cold plunging helps her chronic pain she has done she has great energy now, and she's done a couple cycles of thymosis now for one, and she feels like it's helped her a lot with her chronic EBV. She also seems to suffer with a spike shedding phenomena where she's around a lot of people who are shedding spike, maybe they've been vaccinated. She feels pretty bad from this, and she felt very bad about a month ago after traveling, she gave herself a shot of thymosin, and felt fully recovered by the next day, which is typically unusual for her, where it usually puts her down for some time. She's also been using a methylene blue blood occasion seems to help too. This is a 62 year old male. He's uh, injured with a wild type, the COVID. He's had long COVID fatigue, pretty debilitated. Now, this guy is interesting because he's responded to any mitochondrial therapy I've given him. So whether that's methylene blue, five, immuno, one, MQ, IV, NAD, even though he didn't tolerate it very well. He felt fantastic. Over the next couple of weeks, I gave him thymogen, and he also felt pretty good doing oral thymogen. This is his lymphocyte map while taking thymosin Alpha ones. He's done injections and oral and he's attributed them to a positive impact on his energy and exercise tolerance with his treatment. So this is the lymphocyte map on thymus and alpha one. Unfortunately, I didn't have it before. Now he does have elevated total T helper cells, which is something we could theoretically expect by taking thymosin Alpha One is th, one th, two ratio is elevated. Is th, 17 is low, so I will see high th, 17 in patients who have chronic respiratory and sinus epithelial cell dysfunction where they're exposed to mold mycotoxins. Th, 17 is up regulated when they have the molten mycotoxins. This guy really didn't have a super high amount of that, especially on the lower end. His regulatory cells were actually surprisingly good. So you know, typically when I see these patients, they have dysregulated regulatory cells. So when it's low and suppressed, they have autoimmune syndromes. This guy is in the middle, which I actually didn't expect, seeing, knowing his case. So maybe it could have something to do with the thymosin Alpha One. His natural killer cells are elevated. This is something that you can also expect with thymosin alpha one. It increases your natural killer responsibility to fight off illnesses. This is his array of 12. And so we always look at the pathogens associated with this. And this guy, it matched up exactly with his symptoms. He was having a chronic issue with bloating every time he would eat anything that has maybe a fermentation capability, whether it's a carbohydrate or it's a fermented vegetable, he would have a bloated indigestion from this. So you can see he has very high candidate albicans overgrowth or over over antibody response to this is IgG test. So he's high IgG to Canada, meaning he's dealing with a lot of Candida. His immune system is trying to fight off Candida. And so I actually ended up putting him on a itroconazo. He's on day 15 of it, and he's feeling very good after attempting to treat this. And this is another patient asking, Can I do another order of thy motion? I'm like, do I get still? I'm always asking people, like, why you want to order it? You want to keep taking it? And I always ask for a report. She says, Yes, I'm doing well. I'm able to get up at 450 to 5am that's way too early. I mean, I'm not a morning person. I'm alert and have strength. I haven't felt this well for eight years, I don't need 120 milligram twice daily of NP thyroid any longer. I take about 60 milligrams. Now I don't nap for a few hours a day or four hours a day, sorry, but for only 30 minutes, and sometimes not at all. I do better with taking thymogen Twice a day rather than once. I even lost 10 pounds the past two months, still doing carnivore with a little keto. Pretty cool, right? So here's the two. In comparison, we've talked about both. I'd say thymosin Alpha One is the most researched. I think it's still more efficacious injectables. Thymotion is an oral version that can be acquired. It's a little bit easier to take. Seems to help some people a lot, even comparatively to the injectable thymosin alpha one. Again, if you're going to go for the most data driven one, it's thymosin alpha one. It's even FDA approved. The oral one is this Russian peptide that's now been popularized in the US both, in my opinion, could work just depends on the patient and what their preferences are. And that is all I have for you guys. I'll put a link in the chat if you guys want to order some of these peptides, the at least the the oral ones. I do have an affiliate code for that, and I them. And then for the doctors, I know we can, we can get you all accounts we have. I have one of my reps here in the chat, at least she was here. You can, she'll, she can reach out to you guys and get you guys accounts to prescribe these injectable peptides. You uh, there's Jillian there. Yeah, reach out to Jillian, any providers that want to prescribe these things. She'll help you out.

Unknown Speaker  42:53
Thanks a lot. Stephan, yeah,

Speaker 1  42:58
have you used these peptides? John, uh, teeny bit. I think it could help you.

Speaker 4  43:07
I just got sent this today, wound up sitting on my desk. Anyway, it's VPC, 1570,

Speaker 1  43:19
that's I have a lecture on that Thursday with another group that's a whole nother kind of groups.

Unknown Speaker  43:23
Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  43:26
So any other questions? I've

Speaker 4  43:28
been wanting to do it for two years. I just haven't been able to afford it, and I got to work out a deal with Jay Campbell

Unknown Speaker  43:37
and Jake camel, okay, yeah,

Speaker 4  43:40
I'm a believer. I just haven't started yet. And it used to be real simple. 20 years ago, we had growth hormone. So we wanted to get somebody's body put back together. We can give them growth hormone. And then the government got a little tight on that.

Speaker 1  43:53
I mean, I got sources for that. You can still be a growth hormone. I was telling them Clearfield, before we hopped on this call, I did, I did growth hormone for about eight months. This is an experiment, and I went from 178 pounds to 192 pounds, and it was great. I mean, I looked great, and, you know, I was recovering fast, but I couldn't move on the tennis court. I couldn't compete at 192 pounds, so I cut it out. And I've dropped 1011, pounds down now, about 181 and I'm moving so much better on the tennis court.

Speaker 3  44:27
So Stephan, what is, you know, the thymus extracts. So these are the families that you just discussed. There's one called thymulin. So there's thymos and alpha one, thymulin and thymogen. So actually, these are one of the email questions, too. So where does thymulin get into this picture, this whole family,

Speaker 1  44:51
you know, it's one of those peptides that's produced naturally from the thyroid, the from the thymus gland. I didn't have a lot of time to learn about thymulin from one of the slides. You know, it's similar to T cell differentiation. Helps with inflammation, anti pro inflammatory infect, activation of NK cells, but not much. Do you know of any sources to actually utilize that? Or is that just

Speaker 3  45:16
Yeah, so I've been using, I was using that also before the peptide. What debacle happened? So thymulin is actually so this, this little families of thymus extracts. The most basic one, or the mother of all, is thymus and alpha one. So thymosin, alpha one, as you said, is now even being utilized with pharmaceutical companies as a DAX in so they're trying to get the hepatitis HIV patients on that. And that's basically T cell regulation, B cell regulation, NK cell regulation. And as you mentioned a while ago, the oral one, which is thymogen, which is orally made and synthetically made, actually is the kind of the weakest of all the families of thymus extracts, and in the middle of everybody would be thymulin. So thymollin, you're right, is something that's produced naturally by the thymus gland. And the one that claimed the claim to fame of thymulin, it actually has a better anti inflammatory effect compared to ta one and thymogen, for the reason that it can lower cytokines better, and also it affects the neuro inflammation pathology of any anybody has having neuro inflammation. So it's really more of the cytokine, I guess, suppression that it does, compared to the TA one in thymogen. So, I mean, that's my terms of my experience using it. So, oh yeah, and the Jillian says she carries that too, so definitely we can connect with her. Here's a question for you on the chat. So they're asking you about the Bison, and they're asking, is it sold and packaged cold ice? Does it need to be refrigerated. I live in Canada, and would which US ship to Canada in terms of border address answer to that, I

Speaker 1  47:12
don't know where they ship to I got that famous bison from North Star bison. It's an online company, and they ship it on ice. Yeah, it's frozen. Sounds

Speaker 3  47:20
like you're doing Fear Factor stuff here. So was that good? Did you dip it in soy sauce or something?

Speaker 1  47:26
You know, I tried, but the you just chew it, and it just never stops chewing. So I just, like, I chopped it up and swallowed the thing.

Speaker 3  47:33
All right, okay, so for the now, for the week of heart, um, another question, would this be effective to take when diagnosed with squamous cell cancer? Area removed by incision? So that's

Speaker 1  47:49
for Renee. Yeah. I mean, it's being studied in melanoma, and you know that's it's used in conjunction with both excisional therapies and chemotherapies and radiation, and it just seems to help the body target the tumor cells a little bit better and just get rid of them, as the body should be doing. So when these tumors, these cancers, develop, what is going on? That's the big question. Why are these happening in some people? And in some people, it's not, and it comes back to your body's ability to detox these things, and the thymus is one of the small parts, or one of the bigger parts, I say, but it's in this whole detox process, in the Body Talk process, we have the glutathione, we have NAD, we have the vitamins, we have the diet, and then we have the thymus, and it's a huge part of the detoxification process,

Speaker 3  48:37
right? And I agree with what you're saying, that it can be applicable to any type of cancer. Though the studies about ta one really focuses more on nine small cell lung cancer, hepatic cellular carcinoma and even malignant melanoma, and also a chemotherapeutic adjunct if you're going through chemotherapy. But in my experience, I do give it regardless of whatever cancer they do have. So it is helpful is, yeah, well, I think this is for, I think they're asking if this is Doctor Kent. So I think it is. You kind of showed the slide there, and what is your dosing from Kayla for thymosin alpha one,

Speaker 1  49:21
I do 1.5 milligram subcutaneous every three days. Alright,

Speaker 3  49:27
okay, so Kayla, that's this dosing and well, what about for for Magda, what about thymogen dosing?

Speaker 1  49:38
Yeah, you can take it one or twice daily. You know, from those cases, I've learned about this product. There's not a whole lot of studies on it. You play it by ear,

Speaker 3  49:46
right? And with again, this is best taken on an empty stomach. I have used the product that you're using, and they're saying also that I think the one that you're using, actually, they added a bio regulator to it to enhance the effects of that. I just don't remember what the bio regulator is, but that's why that is definitely a good product, and you'll see from the prize also, yeah, but bio

Speaker 1  50:15
regulator is called LIS blue and IPA two,

Speaker 3  50:19
right? And I think that's what Dr Ken was. Kent was talking that his product is definitely different from the one you can get in the market, right? And then Eric, what parameter on the CBC do you follow absolute lymphocytes, WBC, or both?

Speaker 1  50:37
Yeah. CBC is useful screening tool, when it's you have a high white blood cell count, then that you got to look at the differential. And sometimes you can get a hint from the differential. If the Neutrophils are super high, and classically, that might be a bacterial infection. If the lymphocytes are very high, you know that could be a viral infection. If the eosinophils are high, that could be allergies, or that could be even parasites. But if you really want to know, we order the Cyrex lymphocyte map and then the array 12 at our practice to look at the whole pattern and the stealth infections at the same time. Right? I

Speaker 3  51:14
think Eric wants to clarify that in relation to your the administration of simonston Alpha One. What parameters do you use? Because you showed a while ago, your a subset panel, right?

Unknown Speaker  51:31
Yeah, yeah. I was

Speaker 3  51:33
lymphocyte app, yes, from Yeah. So that's, I think so Eric. I think it's a different company. This is not the quest or lab for the one that he showed and then Tatiana. What are the potential drawbacks of using this product? Who cannot use it?

Speaker 1  51:51
Well, the studies have not found any potential drawbacks. There hasn't been any no side effects. There's no toxicity to this drug. Only drawback is it's kind of expensive,

Speaker 3  52:01
right? Yes, I agree with that. The studies with ta one, really, it's very safe. Even there were studies that it was given to what we call the compensated liver disease, even end stage renal diseases, even on dialysis, and even Primary Immunodeficiencies, these were pretty safe given these products, and to talk to cap that off, there's actually a transient increase in alt. When you use ta one, it can even elevate twice the number of Alt, but it will actually even go down as this transient effect takes place. The thing here, though, it's also injectable. You have to remember that whenever you inject something, redness, swelling, rash, those things you need to observe and the safety. Again, I get this a lot about ta one in pediatrics, nursing, women, pregnant, definitely not established yet. So that's something that I think we should not advocate for, now until further studies, right? And then, what lab from city? What lab do you use for lab testing?

Speaker 1  53:10
Well, as I said, you start with the basics, the CBC and the differential. And then afterwards, if you want to, if you have any concerns, you order the lymphocyte map and the stealth infection panels out there,

Speaker 3  53:24
right? Yeah. So there's so many, I think this is, this is a good company. This is from Doctor. What isn't he said he's a foreign doctor for your one.

Speaker 1  53:33
Oh, yeah, that, yeah, there's a Yeah, lab

Speaker 3  53:37
tests in that company, though, does so but, yeah, there's more of what he has. I know right, it's in the tip of your tongue is a

Speaker 1  53:47
good shotgun approach if you don't know what stealth infection they're dealing with, if the unit can kind of scatter and kind of see what else might be activated.

Speaker 3  53:55
Dr Joseph in halasa, I think, likes this test Kent sharing that William seeds uses ta one at a dose of 400 milligrams per day every morning for three months. Any comments on that like micrograms or micrograms? Micrograms,

Unknown Speaker  54:17
every day,

Unknown Speaker  54:19
every day.

Speaker 1  54:22
And don't know if you get any benefit from that. I mean, the studies show minimum I found, is 1.5 milligrams, but most use higher dose, like 3.4 milligrams for like melanomas and sepsis,

Speaker 3  54:33
right? And, yeah, on literature also can 1.5 is the recommendation sub q, even every third day. So, I mean, as I as you could see, anybody can play around with this protocol, but on the studies of TA one, it's every third day and then for two weeks, and even for viral infections in three months or longer, for complicated immune problems. So, but I think the different protocols that I saw their their post but there are cases, in acute cases I would agree with, with the daily dosing. In terms of this is

Speaker 5  55:11
he does use this in combination with the number of other peptides pre and post surgery. So maybe that's the difference, because we're not we're using it in injury recovery.

Speaker 3  55:29
That makes sense. Yeah, because he likes to mix and match, that's what I remember. So

Speaker 5  55:34
Okay, thank you very much for that. Yeah, you're welcome.

Speaker 3  55:38
And here's uh, Tony saying it's Cyrex. So that, I think that is, that, is it? Yes, Cyrix labs, Cyrex. That's right. I

Speaker 1  55:48
put in here the chat, the the circulating concentration of thymus and alpha one, it varies. So in children it's higher, and then in adults, it's lower. And it does range in diseases. So I think it depends what you're trying to treat. I mean, if a healthy person, you probably have good thymus and alpha one levels in your blood. If you're diseased, you have cancer, you have autoimmune you probably don't have as much in the first place. This may be why someone is not able to regulate their immune system. Why are they having bad response to EBV or cancers? It's probably because they're very low and so it's dependent on the person you probably want to give a higher dose to someone who needs more regulation of their immune system,

Speaker 3  56:29
right? And that's why I when I mentioned to you about the these three families of thymus gland extracts, I actually have, like, a little protocol for them. So I mean, it's pretty easy to remember, for thymogen, it's the oral one, it's a it's a general immune support, like, for example, respiratory infections, you got the flu, and then the middle one I just mentioned a while ago, which is thymulin. I use that for chronic inflammation. So what are a Lupus? And you have to remember with thymullin Also, this is a zinc dependent immunity response, so you really have to check your zinc RPC before using thymulin, because it depletes your zinc. So that's why you need to give zinc. And that's another standout detail for thymulin versus thymogen and thymosin alpha one, because you don't have to do that for the other ones. And then for thymosin alpha one. That's your biggest gun, for example, for viral and cancer support. So, I mean, those are just easy ways and how to remember as a guide for how to use these thymus extracts. Yeah, and that's definitely, again, more of clinical experience rather than really, more not medically literature, assisted for Tatiana, talking about melanoma, what that already excised on two occasions in a present time, not detected? Are any benefits using it preventative and for how long?

Speaker 1  57:57
Yeah, it's a good question. So why does melanoma happen in the first place? You know, I don't think it's always from sunlight, you know, because I have no patients who have it in the uvula on the bottom of their foot. Why does melanoma happen? And it may be due to immune system dysregulation. So language and thymosin, it can prevent it. Maybe it can help prevent other things. I mean, what else can happen if melanoma is happening,

Speaker 3  58:24
right? Well, again, to be honest with you, one of the trickier cancers that I've encountered is melanoma. When you thought you treated it, and then suddenly there's something going on in the brain after a few years, it's melanoma, it's right there. That's why. Again, I do agree with preventative measures for for melanoma, which includes ta one and all of these other famous land extracts. So again, this could be something. There's no such protocol to really guide you through this, but I would suggest definitely making thymosin alpha one as part of your regular scheduled regimen for this patient. I mean, do it in pulsing like every month, for example. But really, there's no specific protocols for it. Unfortunately, maybe in the future there will be one. I

Speaker 1  59:17
mean, I think this is a potentially great preventative medicine. We only use it, of course, in diseases. That's where you can see the benefit. I only use in patients who have chronic fatigue and can't fight off infections and so forth. So I see the benefit, but as a preventative to prevent getting sick. I mean, I may have one or two patients who use it preventatively when they know they might be exposed to someone and they know they can't fight it off, so they'll use it like that. Alright?

Speaker 3  59:41
Well, as we all know, we're always exposed to stress, and that's a big immuno depressant, right there. So I mean enhancing your NK cells, enhancing T cell function. I mean, who doesn't need that every day? It even has antioxidant, anti aging properties when you talk about thymogen Again, the the beauty of this, really, you won't, won't go wrong about overdosing on helping the immune system, because every day, we're just bombarded with all of these immune suppressants, and we just didn't even know about it, right, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:00:14
Yeah, so back in the early COVID days, you know, when it first reared its ugly head, I something jogged my memory about, you know, the type of virus it was. There were two similar type outbreaks in the early 2000s one in Morocco, and another one, I think, in Europe, and thymosa Alpha. One was, was, actually, was used as as a preventative and as as a treatment. And it was quite successful in the places that they used it. And of course, then we got shut down because, you know, you couldn't, couldn't have nice things before that. So that doctor, Kathleen O'Neill Smith, you know, those of us who know her, she was a big advocate of using thymosa Alpha One and thymosa Beta four, together with in sequence, one month on, one month off. For she had a number of hair loss patients, and she did quite well injecting it into the scalp. So it was, it was pretty interesting. So we did it a couple times. We had some success, and then we had trouble getting it so, but, you know, it's kind of back on board again. So, so, so there's a number of uses you know, that are not really for illness, and, like you said, for prevention. So Well,

Speaker 3  1:01:38
if you think how unfair this is, as mentioned by Stefan, Russia and Europe, is you. They're using this really, like there's no tomorrow, and now we're just having a hard I mean, I know, I think ta one got back on track again with us. I think that's what I heard last correct me if I'm wrong, Julian, but there was, yeah, there was a moment that we can't get this and time you Lynn, I think she has it, but that's also not something available left and right. Faimu, Jin, if you can avoid avail of that, it's a little pricey too. So again, accessibility is sometimes an issue.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:15
Okay, so, yeah, so it does have quite a few, you know, quite, quite good properties. And I remember, because I done a thing on it a long time ago. The, the, what is it? The, what is it, where? The, yeah, how much you give them the to kill 50% of the population. I mean, it was like, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:39
treat those two treatment.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:41
Yeah, it was, it was, it was like, basically, you could, you could give barrels of it, and then it wouldn't kill the, you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:50
right, right. It's, really, is pretty

Bill Clearfield  1:02:52
safe, you know, just, you know, don't, don't, don't rub it on the ground before you inject it. I guess that would be the,

Unknown Speaker  1:03:00
oh, they're LD 50, according to Steve,

Bill Clearfield  1:03:02
that's my old timers, disease rearing its head there those things. They're

Unknown Speaker  1:03:08
helping you out. They're helping they are helping

Bill Clearfield  1:03:10
me out. Well, that's, that's, you know, that's the kids you know, like you. So Tatiana

Speaker 3  1:03:17
has more questions. Some patients with, Okay, same patient with two occasions of melanoma had papillary thyroid cancer, small nodule status post partial thyroidectomy, 42 year old, female, overall, pretty healthy. So what's your recommendation on that Stephan,

Speaker 1  1:03:39
papillary thyroid cancer, small analogy. That's a pretty rare one,

Speaker 3  1:03:44
yep. Well, I mean, it's, yeah, it's, it's still, I think I'm looking at this as more of a maintenance. It's just, like, pretty healthy. I just don't know when the cancer was, how it was treated, but basically, I'll stick with, if it was my patient, I would do this like, I do it in pulses, like monthly, with a 1.5 milligram, and I could do it like in a in a week's duration, and then just stop it for for three weeks, and then again, just redo it again, over and over again for a month. I mean, that's my take. Of course, you probably have a different

Speaker 1  1:04:25
Yeah, I can't say I've come across this particular cancer very much. I don't have much of opinion on this. You want to know why this happened in the first place? That's always my first question, like, why do these things happen? You just take a look at the diet, you have a look at their stealth infections, you look there nutrient deficiencies. I mean, when I hear thyroid cancers, I always think of iodine deficiencies, Selenium deficiencies, these things. And when you optimize the basics of the nutrients, you can maybe, you know, prevent more of these problems from happening. Well,

Speaker 3  1:04:56
one thing about this case, she probably won the lottery in a bad way. It's hard to get two cancers in one system. I mean, I've been, I've been seeing cancer, but rarely would you see them going into one person. So there, there's definitely something that needs to be assessed with this patient. Yeah, your array panels should be done on this the the immune system needs to be assessed a little bit more.

Speaker 1  1:05:26
Yeah, exactly. Very good. Well, I think that's all we have for tonight. I'm giving another lecture on Thursday on the Wolverine protocol to the body healthcare. That's Avery Jackson's group, so I'll be over there.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:43
Okay, you're just everywhere, huh? I'm

Speaker 1  1:05:46
everywhere. I got a lot of demands, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:05:49
and let's see, it's m Jones at Great Lakes.

Speaker 1  1:05:55
Echo, yeah, I think they provide your CMEs,

Bill Clearfield  1:06:00
oh, there. Yes, you meet people. Okay, okay, great. Okay, terrific. Okay, any, any sort of summary there, Stefan,

Speaker 1  1:06:11
yeah, there's essentially, I love thymosin alpha one. I have a very low threshold to prescribe it, because it's so safe. I've never seen a problem with it. And it really is useful for that difficult patient. When you have that complex chronic fatigue, stealth infection and mycotoxin, biotoxin, cancer patient, they'll perk up with some thymosin alpha one, pretty much to a T. I mean, rarely, with some exception, someone takes doesn't notice a change. Typically, they'll feel something, especially if they've been struggling for a long time. You give them a little bit of immune support. They per cup,

Bill Clearfield  1:06:46
okay? You put a link up in there for integrative peptides, don't they usually have mostly oral, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:06:55
that's only orally. And then if patients and providers can make an account with that. But if you're a provider, you contact Jillian. She put her information there in the chat, and she can get you the the better pharmaceutical grade injectables.

Speaker 3  1:07:10
So did you? Did you see them in a firm? They're starting to build this injectable side of the practice, of their practice, so I mean our practice, or their company, so I don't know how in fruition. Now, that is, as we speak, but that was from Kent holthorf, and I spoke to him over there. He's saying he's going to launch injectable parts of this now, so I don't know where that is now,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:34
wow. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:36
alright. Well, we have the CME still on, so we'll, oh yeah, sure. Talk about companies later. So what about the cost for this stuff? You know, a vial,

Speaker 1  1:07:49
yeah, probably 1510, milligram vial, probably about 170 bucks,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:56
180 bucks. Yeah, all right, all right. Does it come in the oral form?

Speaker 1  1:08:01
Yeah, oral form is equivalent cost, maybe a little bit cheaper if you get a wholesale

Bill Clearfield  1:08:09
okay. Okay, great, alright, so, and any, any other comments, questions? Dr Quinn left. So is Doctor Doctor tannow around. Tell us about the research group. Let's see he's on here, so wake him up.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:34
We did meet on Saturday, and it went beautifully.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:36
How about, how about, what are you up to? John?

Speaker 4  1:08:39
I'm trying to catch up with these other guys, but they're 10 miles ahead of me. Robert Quinn's one of the hardest workers in the world, and so is Dr tan. Oh, and you know that Dr heat Dimitri is involved with some major medical discoveries, and all three of those guys are working together, so it's fun just being around them.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:02
Okay? Tell them to make us proud. Okay. Are they are okay? Alright. I hope you're feeling better. John, yeah. Okay, okay. Anybody else have any comments? We have Doctor Quinn next week, he's going to be talking to us about some I had pain stuff written down because he wasn't sure. But we're going to be talking about a popular, popular uses for cannabis and medical treatment. So that's next week. Alright? And Stefan, terrific, you know, thank you. And succinct, and to the point,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:38
right? I try, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:41
so I guess we're going to anybody else have any comments or questions, so

Speaker 1  1:09:49
your recording limit? Yeah, that's it. One hour. That's all you guys get. We gotta make these short and sweet, these lectures. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:56
Debbie's going, alright, alright. So, yeah, we hit the recording limit. So we'll, we'll say good night. Great job. Stefan, as always, everybody, anybody has any, any meetings they're going to, or any, any tips or clinical pearls, you know, we're always happy to hear them. And with that, otherwise, we'll say good night and and good hockey. I guess I don't know there was something like that, all right. So Good night, everybody. Take care, and we'll see you again next week. Stefan, thank you so much for being with us as always. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:30
sure thing. Okay. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai