Unknown Speaker  00:42
Hey, Dr coriel, Ariel,

Unknown Speaker  00:50
hello, hello. How are you doing?

Unknown Speaker  00:52
Very good

Bill Clearfield  00:55
to make you to co host.

Unknown Speaker  01:00
So how'd it go today? We were slow.

Speaker 1  01:04
We were pretty well. We're catching up from Germany, so they're all here, even with

Bill Clearfield  01:11
all I did was pellets today.

Unknown Speaker  01:13
Hey, that's enough.

Bill Clearfield  01:15
We did five.

Unknown Speaker  01:16
That's a lot of work already.

Bill Clearfield  01:18
I did five pellets today. That's all we did.

Speaker 1  01:21
That's fine. Pellets. Pellets are good. I wish the Philippines could have had pellets. They don't have pellets over there, you know. No, they don't. They. They had it previously. But I think the supplier just stopped there. There was one pharmacy who could do it, but they had some questions about sterility. So they were, they were wishing they could have it there. Also,

Bill Clearfield  01:45
we can't buy it from an Isaiah and ship it over there.

Speaker 1  01:51
Sure we can try that. Hey, I got a, I got a call from diagnostic solutions. You know them,

Unknown Speaker  02:01
I think so, yeah. Gi map,

Speaker 1  02:04
yeah. Gi map, right, yeah. So they're, I'm setting up with them a webinar, and they want to present their new test that they're about to push out there, which is, they have a new organic acid test that's relating to their connected to their

Bill Clearfield  02:22
GI map? Yeah. So I hope that's complicated as the as the Genova one, because the Genova one takes two hours to interpret.

Speaker 1  02:32
Well, you order more GI maps because it's cheaper, right? I noticed that

Bill Clearfield  02:38
I it's a little less it's a little less clunky. It's not, it's not as pretty. You know, the test report is much prettier for for Genova.

Unknown Speaker  02:50
Well, yeah,

Speaker 1  02:52
again, it's just more expensive that people come Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  02:58
it's $100 more. Yeah,

Speaker 1  03:00
it is. But of course, the accuracy, I don't know about the accuracy, it's a kind of it look like

Bill Clearfield  03:06
brother just, just, does it look like big brother just joined us here, that stern look there and look like you're a George Orwell novel there, Fred,

Speaker 2  03:18
yeah, the lights above me, Milky Way, or whatever it is, yeah, uh huh,

Bill Clearfield  03:24
right. That's, that's, they're like, big, big brothers watching you.

Speaker 2  03:29
No, it's a background is all black because it's dark now at this time of the day, versus, like, you know. So those are my upper windows in the living room. So,

Bill Clearfield  03:42
anyway, so, so why did, why did they call you? Call who you? They called you diagnostic solutions out of Oh no, because

Speaker 1  03:53
I met them in in a conference, and I gave them the notice that we do these webinars. So it's something that

Bill Clearfield  04:03
they're interested in. Oh, so they want to be on. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  04:07
They're getting some, I guess some, what do you call this? They have educational speakers, the PhDs, the NDS that they have on their team, and they're going to get it on with us. I told them, we're so we're booked already up to

Bill Clearfield  04:24
January. We can book them next gen for next January, for january 2026, we got endless Tuesdays to book.

Speaker 1  04:32
I know I told them that it's next year because they were thinking that they could do it by December. I told them, No, we're already full. We already and december

Bill Clearfield  04:40
24, and 31st or two, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, and I'm taking off. So you guys want

Unknown Speaker  04:47
to do it? You can.

Bill Clearfield  04:48
I'm taking No, that's right. I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to take two weeks off.

Speaker 3  04:58
That sounds great, Doc. I've got to refer a couple speakers to you. I keep forgetting. Okay, let me know

Bill Clearfield  05:08
we can't keep relying on Dr Nario for finding the speakers. You're muted. Dr Nario, you're muted.

Speaker 1  05:22
Today, in another conference that he was in.

Unknown Speaker  05:29
Oh, the, which, which one of those today,

Unknown Speaker  05:34
the,

Speaker 1  05:36
the the heart attack clinic, oh, yeah,

Speaker 3  05:39
calroy Doctor, she's pretty good, yeah, the thing that I'm really happy starting to see now is reversal of intimal thickening and stuff, but I want to see it on a CPTA with an AI analysis before and after treatment,

Unknown Speaker  06:03
are you talking about the clearly test?

Unknown Speaker  06:06
Yeah, clearly is, is, to my knowledge, the best, the best one, the best software, I think,

Speaker 1  06:18
yeah, they're using AI in relation to finding these cardiovascular Yeah,

Speaker 3  06:24
that's how they stratify the the once you have over 100 calcium score, you don't know what the hell it means, and the only way you're going to know is by evaluating it. Now they can differentiate between severe, moderate and no risky plaque.

Speaker 1  06:45
That's true. And you know, they're using AI for cancer, also screening whole body MRI, it's called renewable and they're one

Speaker 3  06:53
I'm not familiar with yet. I heard something about it, but, but I, I don't know anything about

Speaker 1  07:01
it. It's coming up, but they're they're starting to spread the word already. I'm trying to get them for for us to have in the show, but that's their claim to fame. They're going to do a whole body scan on you to screen for the tiniest cancer as early as possible, to get intervened on. So AI is taking over, as you can see, just

Bill Clearfield  07:23
like, just like in Star Trek, huh? You're gonna, you're gonna wind you down, it'll tell you what's wrong with you, and then wind you back up, and then you're cured, right? Isn't that what they had on Star Trek?

Unknown Speaker  07:34
Parent, I didn't saw that episode, but maybe

Speaker 3  07:38
I'm not a Trekkie. Sorry. I missed I missed them all.

Bill Clearfield  07:45
So back in the day, my son liked that

Speaker 3  07:47
a lot, so, but at 94 years old, Captain Kirk has still got it together. I saw him on an interview with Meyer. Bill Meyer,

Bill Clearfield  08:01
yeah, well, he said, back in the day, my son knew everything he spoke, Klingon, you know, there's a whole somebody came up. Oh, my God, he knew what he knew when Captain Kirk was born in the year 2250, oh, yeah, among other among, among other things. So yeah, so, so. Doctor, she is with us. Thank you for being with us. Doctor, she I pleasure. We're happy to have you here.

Unknown Speaker  08:32
Thank you. And

Bill Clearfield  08:34
we usually get started a little little bit after five, and we have folks who straggle in sometimes quite late, actually, so we'll let them in when you know, as that as you go along, I know you've done these before. I've heard I've heard you on, on some other podcasts, and you were at ammg Correct. Yes, I was, yeah, so was I. But if you didn't stay till Sunday, they always put me on last, always the last speaker.

Speaker 4  09:08
I was going to stay on Sunday, but then I got a new flight

Bill Clearfield  09:15
out. Yeah, I know the two thirds of the crowd leaves by Sunday morning. So, so I've done the I've been the last speaker there for like, six or seven years in a row. So I make, I make a joke about

Unknown Speaker  09:31
it. You must be special.

Bill Clearfield  09:34
Well, it was. I said that either they saved the best for last or one of the conferences we ran, I miscalculated, and I was in credit CME credit hours short. So I had to jump in there and do one right at the end to make sure, make to even everything up. So, so it was one of those two things. So either that, or, you know, my son was in theater for 20 years, and you always want to leave them, have them leaving the leaving the the the theater, singing the singing the theme song. So maybe it's, maybe it's that so

Unknown Speaker  10:15
dr Shea is going to talk about our favorite protein cloth, though.

Bill Clearfield  10:22
Yeah, actually, actually brought that up. And somebody brought that up at ammg, too. And it wasn't you dr, she was, it was,

Speaker 4  10:28
yeah, I did. And I think there was another speaker, yeah, and he brought it up, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  10:37
yeah. So,

Unknown Speaker  10:40
Vince cloth though,

Bill Clearfield  10:41
Vince cloth though. Remember Vince cloth though? we should be testing, because they are, you know, frankly, made a large number of biomarkers that can

Unknown Speaker  10:51
potentially be tested and used.

Bill Clearfield  10:56
So what? What are the potential utilities of biomarkers. Why? Why do we want to have a biomarkers? Why we want to test them so the first purpose is to identify abnormalities or deficiencies and and then we also want to define the optimum range which is different from a normal range in a conventional medical setting,

Unknown Speaker  11:24
and most

Bill Clearfield  11:28
doctors talk about normal range. The normal range is not necessarily optimal. I think you know being you know functional medicine or integrative medicine doctors, you, you, you, you better appreciate that. And you know well, in the business of optimized human physiology and and we want to bring all the parameters to the optimum range instead of what's called a normal range. And biomarkers can also be used to evaluate the efficacy

Speaker 4  12:10
of innovations. That's a very important application, and very often, even nowadays, it's very hard to know whether a treatment or intervention is actually doing any good, especially when you're talking about longevity or wellness programs. So biomarkers can be used to help us to evaluate It's been an incredible journey.

Bill Clearfield  12:42
Okay? So you're going to tell us all about it, correct?

Speaker 4  12:45
I'm going to tell you about what I'm thinking, what I have been thinking in the last four or five years. And you know, a little bit of you know my philosophy on how we can what I want to do for my own life and and what I can do to help others to achieve longer and healthier life. And so

Bill Clearfield  13:21
before you begin? Are you going to discuss rapamycin at all? Is that part of your

Speaker 4  13:26
I'm not going to talk about NOPA, my son, and I know no.

Bill Clearfield  13:33
The reason I ask is because in the last week, there have been several reports out that have been rather negative about it, and I don't know if you've seen it, seen those so big research group has actually abandoned it, and we've had some lectures on it. We've had Ross Pelton on a couple of times, and actually gave, gave some that's what a talk I gave at ammg was about it. So I was wondering if, if you had seen any of that.

Unknown Speaker  13:59
So I have seen, I have seen the reports come in, and Brian Johnson has announced the case decision to stop taking off my scene. And, man, I, I don't think that should have too much influence on people's decision. Personally, I have always been very cautious about

Speaker 4  14:24
rapamycin, but I don't have any specific data from my my group. So without without the data, I usually try not to express too much opinion. I have my I have my concerns, but, you know, I don't know much better than anyone, anyone else.

Bill Clearfield  14:48
Okay, okay, I'm just, that was just a, you know, sort of a, sort of a segue. So I'm going to give you the floor, and anybody has any comments or questions, put it in the chat. We'll go over them at the end and just introduce yourself one time, a little bit, yeah, and we'll take it away.

Speaker 4  15:11
I will share my slides first. You

Speaker 1  15:22
doctor, she with a lot of NAD questions. He he does a good presentation on that. Yeah, so

Unknown Speaker  15:28
can you see my slides

Bill Clearfield  15:31
now? Yes, we see them. All right, all right.

Speaker 4  15:37
Let me get go to the beginning.

Bill Clearfield  15:49
Is that you playing tennis.

Unknown Speaker  15:50
That's, uh, that's my hope.

Bill Clearfield  15:52
Okay, cellular in essence. And a lot of how old? How old is that? That young man, that young man is 102 well, we lost, we lost your slides. Alright, let

Speaker 5  16:09
me 102

Bill Clearfield  16:14
so he's got a couple of weeks on Dr Quinn, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  16:17
So, barely, barely, barely,

Speaker 4  16:25
shouldn't have duplicated my snide let me stop the sharing and come back again.

Unknown Speaker  16:37
What can you see my slides again?

Bill Clearfield  16:39
Yes, we do.

Unknown Speaker  16:40
are the eight categories that I focus on. Obviously, they are artists that can be very important. Another one that I think it's very

Speaker 4  16:52
important but no one can really test, is autophagy. And what I would love to get a autophagy essay in place, but I have been trying. I'll continue to try, and they are other biomarkers that can be very important as well, but this is enough to get started, so I'll go through some of these biomarkers and tell you what what we're trying to do. So the first one is quality inflammation. I don't need to tell you too much about them. You. You know how important it is. And the only couple points I want to mention here is, yeah, career was focused on childhood disease, especially type one diabetes. I have one of the largest research programs that have ever been tempted, and we screened over 500,000 newborn babies, and identified over 10,000 high risk babies that we monitored for over 20 years, and we started everything about these children for very long period of time, and we were able to identify develop a new screening strategies and war, soup, potentially.

Speaker 4  18:32
the types of information and the sources of information can really help us to identify the issues with with the patients. So you know, being able to to test a large number of inflammatory and biomarkers will become more and more important in in clinical medicine. And I to illustrate the importance of inflammation in aging. And we can look at this. This chart on the left, as you can see, individuals who have higher, high sensitivity, CRP, and the survival Probability is increased by over 10% just by having a slightly innovative CRP, a three milligram per liter is actually not very high. We, we we see about, you know, 20 to 30% of individuals having CRP levels greater than three milligrams per liter. And this in the so called, you know, healthy, healthy population. So inflammation is quite widespread in in even so called healthy individuals, and obviously in patients, many of them, a very high percentage of them have models. Need to highly innovative CRP levels, so getting in from inflammation under control is a very important, important tool for for anti aging clinics. Now, with the CR with CRP, you really want to know the levels as much as possible. And conventionally, CRP, greater than one milligram per liter is considered at higher risk for cardiovascular disease. But what we do know now is those individuals who have less than point five milligram per liter of CRP have a much lower war cause mortality many individuals who have around one milligram per liter of CRP. So the lower CRP you have, the better survival you have. So you really want to bring down the CRP levels, you know, as close to zero as possible. And that's that's important point for me to say. Now, then I want to quickly run through some some other biomarkers to show, to highlight how the conventional tests you can do, how need can be used for, for longevity medicine and glycation, obviously, is about is a diabetes biomarker. Glycation can be measured by by a few biomarkers, and the most popular one is hemoglobin, a 1c another one less known is called the GSP, or glycated serum protein. And here you are looking at the heart ratio of H B, A 1c in a diabetic population in on the top graph, and obviously, H B, A 1c is associated with world cause mortality. But even in healthy individuals who don't have diabetes, and a 1c levels is also associated with war cause mortality. So you really want to get a 1c levels into the optimum range, which is in the middle. If it's too low, it's not good. Obviously too high is not good. And here is another very routine biomarker that people may or may not pay much attention uric acid. Now, uric acid actually has a very major impact on world cause mortality, if you uric acid level is greater than nine and the life expectancy is decreased by 10 years. And so you know, all these conventional biomarkers can be very important longevity and biomarkers to consider, and we need modern name routinely. And so here is survival curve for for for acid, and you can also look at the ratio of UIC acid over HB, A, 1c and in ratio improves the death prediction little better than you acid, but just by measuring Your acid and HBO and see you can see the world called maternity difference, how big the difference is between individuals who have who are in the optimal level versus the ones that are have high elevating the UIC acid and ALP is another one and conventional biomarker, and it has a major impact on world cause mortality as well. Vitamin D, and again, is very important. And all doctors, ethnic, functional medicine doctors and integrative medicine doctors know to keep the importance of vitamin D and but perhaps fewer know how important the vitamin D level is, and on this graph, as you can see, how big a difference on the survivability of individuals with different levels of vitamin D, and the differences astonishing. That's almost a 50% difference between individuals with optimum vitamin D levels. And actually, I don't consider 30 nanogram per ml optimum. You really have to get your vitamin D levels to above 50 nanogram per 50 international units. And so unfortunately, you know, 70, 80% of Americans are still deficient in vitamin D. I mean, this is a very simple, very cheap intervention that everyone should be able to get on and increase their longevity by years. You know, they are a lot of simple actions one can take to increase life expectancy and and health span now. So those are the conventional bond markets that are important for for for longevity. Now, let's, you know, talk a little more about the newer biomarkers, and that had really will become even more important as we get more scientific evidence. Now, cellular senescence, I talk a little bit about them, and this is becoming extremely important in anti aging medicine. Now, what are, what are sensing the cells, senescent cells? Well, sales are programmed to die, but some of these cells that are programmed to die refuse to die, and they are not. They don't they don't function normally anymore, but they refuse to die. They sit near and don't carry out normal function. But this secret large numbers of what's called SASP, or senescence, so seen protein and this suspic proteins and other molecules can have a major negative impact on normal cells around them, but they can also be secreted into the bloodstream and travel to other sides of the body and cause The harm. And so senescence is one of the most important characteristics of aging, and so senescence is increased with age, and aging also promote senescence. So this is a two way street and and and senescence can have a major impact on mitochondrial function, and it can also have impact on DNA function can have a impact on another very important molecule called NAD are spending a little more time on that later on. So senescence is is something that we needed to pay much more attention so they are, unfortunately, no great ways to measure senescence. Yet, currently, there are two different assets available. The first one is analysis of T cell populations in the blood. You basically measure the proportion of naive T cells in the circulation, as you can see on this slide, and the naive T cell proportion actually goes down with age, and this is considered as indication of immune senescence. Now immune senescence, obviously is important, but it only measures senescence in the immune compartment. The second biomarker for senescence is a nice room enzyme called beta galecto site side days, sometimes I call it beta gal for sure. Now, beta gal is a nice result enzyme that's relatively specific to senescence, and so beta gut levels are increased in a number of disease conditions, and you can see the data in large cervical Cancer population that we studied for five years ago, and on the right side, you can see high levels of senescence actually

Speaker 4  31:31
have a major impact on how cervical cancer patient responded to chemotherapy and their overall survival. The bottom line is, the higher senescence the patient has, and the less response the patient has to chemotherapy and the patients, and the shorter the survival of the patient. So you really, I believe that this data indicate that you can reduce the senescence in cancer patients to improve cancer treatment. And this is something that I actually was going to conduct some clinical trials before I left my academic position. If I can get some resources, I'm going to study in this question a little more. I think then really has a great potential in cancer treatment, and also in some other disease settings now, so I'll talk a little bit about the closer and because it's becoming very hard, and almost every meeting I go and someone is talking about now what, what's closer and closer is supporting this primarily secreted by the kidney, and it's also secreted by by brain cells a little bit, but most coastal is secreted in in the kidney and and also has a number of functions, and it has a major impact on the function of many different organs, obviously, kidney, heart and you can have an impact on diabetes, cancer and COVID, but I think closer becomes very hot now, because is related to longevity and and the protein is actually named after the Greek goddess and who determines how many years that we have. So that's how important it is now. So they are a number of factors that can decrease closer levels, and this is three here on the right. The first one is oxidative stress and inflammation, and the third one is psychological stress and depression. These are only three. What we have found recently is causal levels are highly responsive to disease and the physiological conditions of the person. I can give you my own personal experience so but my coastal level was usually in the middle of the optimum range that we define. And about three months ago, I got COVID, and I mentioned my I measure all my biomarkers was the time, especially when I become sick. What I found is my close never dropped from six, two point 8.8. Is really, really, really bad, and we don't want to never to go much below five later known, you know, one. So we what we are finding, what we have found is extremely low levels, or associated with cancer and cold post COVID syndromes, obviously kidney diseases, and also Alzheimer's disease and and they are also a number of other diseases that we find the closer efficiencies. And what's really interesting is that how fast the coastal level can change, that was not expected. And it's almost important that behave, that behaves like like CRP. And as you know, CRP changes very fast to infections, surgeries and other physiological or pathological conditions. And I believe closer will be a great tool that we can measure and identify pathological and the physiological abnormalities that that's happening in in the individual. So that was really surprising finding. I think that will make a closer highly useful for clinical medicine. Unfortunately, I, you know, I didn't know that this group is so interesting closer. Otherwise, I would have included some some data science, or I obviously the next question is, you know, how you can increase the coastal level? And there are a number of suggested solutions, and there are some supplements that are suggested as well. They are gene therapy programs in place, and there are companies that are producing the close supporting to for injections. And what I have found is the gene therapy program may may work pretty well, but it's going to be hard for it to become mainstream treatment mortality because of the cost and other issues. So we really have to find other pharmacological solutions, and many some, some clinics and companies are working on that, and we, I have been working on that as well. I still we have something, but we don't have a greater solution yet. For the time being, what we have found is, if you can improve the health condition of the patient. You can actually improve closer level. And so if you identify health issues and low closer levels, and if you improve their conditions and their closer levels are likely going to go up. And obviously, if you can increase closer, you will probably speed up the recovery, especially if you increase close to level, you can reduce the inflammation, because many of the cytokines are controlled by the coastal protein. So while at the very beginning of exploring the application of closure, and this is the area that I believe we'll see a lot of progress in the coming years. All right. So for the remaining talk, I want to focus on mitochondria dysfunction, and I want to start by talking about a byproduct of the mitochondria, as you know, free in radicals react reactive oxygen species are produced in the mitochondrial byproduct. And this free radicals can damage various molecules, DNA on a nippies, you know, membranes. And what I want to tell you is oxidative stress is very common in America and much, much more common than in Europeans. You know, over 70% of Americans have high oxidative stress that we can measure very reliably, very accurately. If you look at the Europeans, and it's only about, you know, 10%

Speaker 4  41:10
so next, there's something that we do in America that's causing high oxidative stress, and the likely risk factors are lifestyle, especially food source. So again, oxidative stress is a major contributor to various diseases, including cancer, as you can see on this graph, and oxidative stress is increasing cervical cancer patients, and high oxidative stress is associated with poor survival in cervical cancer patients, and we have similar data on many other different diseases, so we need to pay much more attention to oxidative stress, even more than inflammation. Although everyone talks about inflammation, very few people talks about oxidative stress, every time I have a chance, I want to bring your attention to oxidative stress, which is so common in this country. And if we can get it under control, we're going to improve people's health dramatically. Oxidative stress is associated with all cause mortality. I'm not going to bother you with the details, because I really want to give some time to talk about the LED molecule and you will know NAD and I called the super node of knife, and that's because NAD, as a co enzyme, is essential to the function of over 500 enzymes in in our cells, the most important function of NAD, as you know, is the production of ATP in the mitochondria. Now we, with each glucose molecule, we produce about 3638 ATP. Only two ATPs are produced outside of the middle country that don't really require the help of NAD. The vast majority, 95% of ATP is produced in the middle country and then requires the involvement of NAD, obviously, if you don't have enough NAD, your mother country is not going to function in the optimal way. So that's why NAD. That's the number one reason why NAD is so important. But there are 500 other reasons why nd is important. So unfortunately, energy levels decline with age, and that's coming in on what was really surprising to me to find out in the last few years is that how fast only the level never decline, how early it never decline? Isn't really if you look at the very young individuals, teenagers on the first bar, about 20, 25% of teenagers are already sub optimal or deficient in energy levels. And then, if you look at the individual in their in their prime time, 20 to 30 years old and 25 only, about 25% of them have optimum energy levels. Then when you go to the group in their 50s, 60s, and their energy levels is less than half of what you see in in the teenage years. So this in a sharp decline in the late 20s, early 30s is actually associated with the decline of our physiology and our physical abilities, which no pick around the 30 years of age. So the only decline is probably responsible for a lot of the decline that we see as we age. The good news is that they are many potential ways that we can get the energy levels increase. I not prefer to use the word optimize. And so without getting into too much of the details and you, you can give people the energy molecules near ports and cons, you can give people the building blocks or the precursors that the sales can use to make NAD or you can try to inhibit the consumption or decrease the consumption of The NAD molecule. And finally, you can increase the enzymes. That make energy. So these are the four major uh approaches that one might consider to increase or optimize energy levels, and that um people are arguing about what works the best. They are debates and network continue, but I can tell you that we have looked at the war on these different approaches. I'll show you some data very quickly. The first data point I want to show you is the clinical trial that was done with NMN formulation with four different ingredients. It's a CME. I'm not going to tell you. You know who, who support on this is. And now, if you look at this clinical trial on the left you have, we have two baseline measurements, and average is about 28 micromona, and that's actually on on the higher side, then other groups that have been studied after two weeks of N supplement. Supplementation, on average, the energy levels increase by a little over 100% in the next two weeks. It continues to go up a little bit, but not much. You really only need about two weeks, actually, in many individuals, less than two weeks, to get an energy level peak at net concentration. All right, so there they are, very efficient ways of getting NAD increase. Now let's look at some other Oh, I, I don't have the other data here, but what I it looks like, but we can discuss it after the presentation. There are other ways, and they don't work as well as the only the precursors, which is NMN or in R. Now the one point that that I really want to make here is only the is so important that if you get any the Optimize your art treatment may work much, much better than otherwise they can. I want, I want to explain this slide to you on the left is a study on what's on the impact of NAD on anti inflammation, anti inflammation treatment. If you look at the group that have a higher energy level, about 80% of these participants responded to anti inflammation treatment and 20% of them did not respond. Then on the right side, if you look at NAD no group, only about 30% of the participants responded to anti inflammation treatment and 70% did not okay. So what the data argued to me is, if you have a good identity level and you you treat them for inflammation, your protocol would work better. The same is true for to reduce oxidative stress the data are shown on the right panel wall, almost the mirror image of the inflammation treatment. So we have similar data on multiple other treatment protocols. And the bottom line is, if the energy levels are optimized and your art treatment protocols can potentially work more effectively. So that, to me, you really want to consider getting the energy optimized for all your patients and so, Alright, so

Speaker 4  51:05
now here is, is a heat map, a color code map of individuals by biomarkers. Now if you see in red and orange and the yellow. These colors mean that the biomarkers are abnormal or deficient, and red is the most deficient. It follows the emergency color code, okay, red, orange, yellow and and and why White is optimal. So what I'm trying to tell you here, what, well, what I'm trying to tell you is, everyone is different. Everyone has a different set of issues. And in order to treat the patient more effectively, you want to know what are the top issues that are going to I don't want to use the word kill, but actually it is because if I'm talking about non derivative, I want To identify the factors that are going to kill myself. Kill me first. If I can take the top three issues away from that patient, I can likely give them, you know, 1520, or even 2030, years of extra life. So you really want to prioritize what actions that each patient should take, and with comprehensive biomarker testing, you are able to identify the main issues. And I think a holistic approach is really how we can get the best outcome. And, you know, I know that every doctor is specialized in the in their own specialty. They have their own expertise. I think that's perfectly fine and but, but if our program is to increase lifespan and health span, you know, which is what I'm interested in, the holistic approach, a comprehensive approach is really necessary. And the only way that we can, we can have a highly effective program is through personalization, precision and prioritization and so on. So I'll give you a couple of three, I think, three examples. And that that we have seen. And the first one now, this is a gentleman in his middle 70s. The guy is super rich, okay, he sold his company for $500 million and has plenty of money, and he was even involved in the health business. And when we did here, when we tested him, what we found the number one issue was his GSP, the glycation reporting was going through the roof, higher than anyone that I have ever seen. So he has been having diabetes, I am sure, for long, long time, and he was not paying attention. And his doctor didn't pay attention. So and you know, after our test, and we send him to to to his doctor and and we are getting him, we're getting his diabetes treating, and how many years we can, we can potentially give this guy, I think it's not difficult to ask that, well, if he does what he should do now and we potentially give him, you know, another 1520, years of healthy life then otherwise. So that was a very simple, simple situation. Now on, this patient is much more complicated. So after the test, we identified a number of issues here. I'm listing the top five issues here. The first one is extremely high oxidative stress, as indicated by Rm. The first one, you can see how how high it is, red. The second one is severely deficiency. In NAD and the third one is inflammation, as indicated by CRP, and he was high, has high, tried to destroy increased LDL and some metabolic issues, and also extremely deficient in vitamin D, all right? Well, this simple issues that can be fixed and how much needs, how much the impact of these deficiencies have on this person is, is huge. We have solutions to fake all these, what I call sub health issues, and you can, if we can fix them, which we can and we should be able to prevent major diseases years down to know. All right, so this is another individual and retired health executive, and we test the number of biomarkers in our in our panel. And so the two major deficiencies, we identify problems we identify is number one, energy deficiency that we were able to correct very quickly after a few weeks. And then another major one is his clothes was extremely deficient, less than one and he is actually the cancer survivor, and some cancer survivor cancer patients, and also cancer survivors have extremely deficient, closer levels, and is something that we were able to To improve over time. So this, we improve this, this sub health issues, and we were able to improve his liver function. And another major improvement that we got was his muscle mass was increased significantly, as indicated by creating kinase and also by creating levels, and also by muscle mass, skin so and with this few simple things, what, what he got was increased energy, reduce The fatigue and increase the muscle mass mass. And he his aches and pains were gone, and he's starting competitive and recycling at age of 78 so, you know, they are very simple fixes that we can have if we can identify the issues. That's what I'm trying to emphasize. Okay, so you know, we can help individuals in their later stages for life, and we can also help very young individuals to increase their performance, like this young lady who drink the number 16 in 2023 in 100 meter sprint. And we work with her in 2024 and she moved up from number 16 to the top three in 100 meter competition in the US. And we can also help individuals engaged in endurance and Ted is a very interesting guy, and he was the first one to know his boat from California to Hawaii about five, six years ago. Then he had a heart attack. Unfortunately, when he was planning to

Speaker 4  1:00:06
go from Hawaii to Australia, and he had to delay that trip. And with, you know, partner with our help, and he was able to accomplish the mission as a first person to know about from Hawaii to Australia about three months ago, and now, how about a super ethnic like box boxing champion? So Sina, using his he would be perfect, right, but not necessarily. And they may be performing at their peak, but they are underlying, potentially underlying, issues that can cause problems years in the future. What we found with him is severe deficiency in NAD and less than 20 micron in red, color you can see here. So after only 15 days, we were able to bring his level from 18.1 to 64.9 and that's really going to give him not help, not only now, but for his health years or even decades down to know. So the physical appearance of health may not necessarily mean that you don't have underlying sub health issues, that if you can pay attention to get them corrected and will give you much better health years decades down the road, that's the point I want to make. I every time I want to talk about myself a little bit obviously, because I don't preach anything that I I don't do myself and and I have benefited tremendously from the programs that the program that I have developed, and the program is actually developed with with me as the first guinea pig, and I got so many benefits, including, you know, I my asthma is gone, my sciatica is gone. But what I like the most is my tennis game improved by at least 25 years. So I'm I'm about 25 years closer to being able to play tennis at 100 that's what I like the most. My my final I think it's my final slide. And I want to emphasize how you can use biomarker testing to optimize. And this is example, energy optimization. And this young lady, she was 68 years old when we started working with her, and she was extremely deficient in NAD and then we we did not have a good product at net time. And so we're experimenting with very supporters on the market, and nothing really worked very well until we find another one that got her way over the optimal range, and we had to titrate her dosage down to bring her level to the optimum. So testing is really important, not only, many products may not work, but some products may work too well and bring never to to a harmful range that needed to be, bring a board back. So the only way that you can do it in a very precise way, is through testing, before and after intervention that this is a key point to keep in mind. So this is my final slide, and I want to live with you with nine walls. The first one is tau, T, A, O, and that's the Italy process. And also, I want to live with you with eight words. Let's start with P proactive, predictive, preventive, precision, personalization, parallel, which holistic prioritization and persistence. And as doctors, you understand what this mean, and I want to emphasize, especially with lay person, how important it is to be proactive, preemptive, and it's never too early and too late to start a longevity program. My seven year old daughter already started her program and and also, it has to be really persistent to get the best outcome. And with this? This nine words, I want to thank you for listening to me, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:32
Thank you. Dr, she I got a bill. I got about a million questions, but we'll Can we start with the ones that are in the chat first boy, how difficult is it to get close, though, levels.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:47
Get it,

Speaker 4  1:05:49
get it measured or get get it, get it increase

Bill Clearfield  1:05:56
either. I mean, I wouldn't even, where do you order it? Okay? So,

Speaker 4  1:06:02
so we there are two, there are two laboratories in the US that can measure closer level. And I'm not, since that was still in the same e portion, I guess what I'm not gonna say.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:19
I think we're I think we're okay to mention them. We're not endorsing anybody. We're just just information.

Speaker 4  1:06:24
Okay, so, so the first lab is based in San Diego, and the the offer closer test is, is a relatively expensive test and and the second one is from infinity, and closer level is testing as a part of panel. So these are the only two laboratories that I know that can offer a clinical test for closer levels. Now, when

Bill Clearfield  1:07:02
you get a chance, can you just type that in the in the chat so that we can, yeah, we say the names.

Speaker 4  1:07:12
Yeah, I'm, I'm not sure of the name of the San Diego net, but I can, I can find out for you. Nate on and close those years, coastal years, okay, okay, it's for 600 Yeah, it's infinity. That that's, that's the other name that I can contest for, for closer level now, in terms of how to get a closer increase. And they are, they are, that is the company that does gene therapy. Is called by bio viva. Bio viva, he has, is a California based company, and they offer gene therapy protocol to for council, and I can put it in the chat bio Weaver. And I don't know how much the I don't know how much in the charge, and I know to see a CEO. I mean, if you are interested. I mean, I can, I can, I can find out later on. And they are also potentially some supplements that can make me help. But how? Isn't a single supplement that can really increase coastal level, for sure. And my overall suggestion is, you want to treat you, you want to improve the overall health of the patient. And there are also some closer protein product on the market. I frankly, I doubt, I doubt, lately work, because the closer proteins that are people are trying are produced in bacteria. Now bacteria cannot glycosidate the proteins, and I think glycogenation of closure is important for its function, so I'm not sure any closure protein on the market actually works. And at least I don't have any data to indicate that it may work. And then I think the only wide spreader solution is to treat the treat the symptoms and reduce inflammation, reduce oxidative stress, and getting them to healthier stay. I mean, I tell you, my closer went down from five point something 2.8 and I was able to get it back up to to a little over six now, and I didn't take anything that's specifically designed to increase closer, because I don't know how, but I was just taking care of the issues associated with COVID. I was able to bring back up. So this is a area that was still experimenting. I'll be happy to work with everyone who's interested in this. Let's, let's work together to come up with better protocols. And unfortunately, I don't have a I don't have a greater solution for you. Unlike any I know how to do it with closer. I don't know yet.

Speaker 1  1:11:03
Doctor she I was doing a podcast about it, and actually was surprised about prescription medicines raising cloth levels, such as ARBs for hypertension and also stands. Yeah, I

Speaker 4  1:11:18
know, I know that's, that's, that's talking about in the near twitch. I don't, I don't have any evidence to indicate one way or another, and it will be, I suppose we should do a study that's, let's try. If it works, great if that, if it doesn't, I don't know I, I have, I have a suspicion, if you want, but

Speaker 1  1:11:51
Well, one thing, another one that I saw was high phosphate. Diets are actually detrimental for your clothes, though, levels, meaning it was pertaining to specific processed food. So as we all know, we're exposed to processed food every day with the American diet, and that's why it has a big correlation. When you mentioned about the kidney producing cloth, though, and as you would know, with the chronic kidney disease, patients phosphate, low phosphate diets are are being promoted. And that's pretty interesting for me, because as you, as you could see, you could do any anti aging modality, exercise, diet, but this was pretty specific about Clotho levels. A low phosphate diet will increase your your Clotho levels.

Speaker 4  1:12:38
Well, I again, many, many suggestions I have. I have multiple clinics, and they are trying to come up with a closer protocol. No one has succeeded. At least the ones who, who have been working with me, have not succeeded yet. You know, if you were someone who want to try any protocol, let's work together. You know, I'm open minded. I want to find a solution, and what I'm telling you is I do not have any validated solution, even though, you know, I got my my close never you know, went down, I was able to get it up. But as we work with quite a number of individuals, the most efficient way to get closer up is to improve the person's health. That that's something I know. I'm pretty confident, but I don't I cannot pinpoint to anything specific that I can tell you, you take a knees, what you do needs your clothes will likely go up. I don't, I don't have that evidence. I think, I think we could deal with this.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:54
You know what I mean? Dr anario, straight out. You know, you Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:14:03
you gotta beat Doctor Joseph and Doctor halassa to the punch on this.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:07
There we go.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:09
Um, there's a question about g6 PD deficiency and being able to process NAD right

Unknown Speaker  1:14:16
with vitamin C. Correct.

Speaker 4  1:14:20
Yeah, net has been talked about, and I do not have any data on that. And I think there's a question that we probably discuss on the Dr Hanas group as well, and I don't have data again, if you have, if you have the patient that's, let's get some data.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:45
Okay, is there any other amino acids to support the pyruvate pathway, like D, ribose, D

Speaker 4  1:14:52
in ribose, and we actually have Dean ribose in the in the formulation that I talk about that we have the best outcome, and so dy both is certainly, I think it's important for increasing energy levels and many other functions as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:18
What tests are you using to measure NAD

Speaker 4  1:15:21
it's enzymatic chemical reaction, and it can be done with the dried blood spot and finger plate. What

Bill Clearfield  1:15:39
about those little saliva strips that the, usually, the it comes with,

Speaker 4  1:15:43
we, we, we are not imagining nitric oxide. I

Bill Clearfield  1:15:47
think I'm getting them.

Speaker 4  1:15:48
That's nice nitric. That's nitric. You can imagine nitric oxide with survivor. And you mentioning a getting a test can be done with tonight with, actually, chicken swap, not a survivor. And we, we met ding a with with blood, and there is Ding a in the survival but never, we don't know how to interpret the data from survival is, is not in the 70 coordinate with cellular NAD.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:27
Okay, that's all I have. Dr Nario, you have some email?

Speaker 1  1:16:34
Yeah. So yes, as I told you, Dr, she would bring in all the NAD questions here. So well this, I think this is a big debate already out there. Maybe we can take your thoughts on this. Which is the better precursor to increase NAD nicotine, nicotinamide, riboside, nicotinamide, mononucleotide, niacin. What is your take on that? What?

Speaker 4  1:16:58
So now the best, the best precursors are, and they are comparable in elevating energy levels that I know there's a there's a debate, between and are, but I think those debates are really not based on actual data. We have a lot of data so both NMN and can increase energy levels. We We, if you give the same give a comparable dosage, and in modernity, and they're making increased level meeting levels in a very similar way. Now, personally, I prefer over nr a little bit for two reasons. The first one is NMN. N is one step precursor to NAD, and nr is a two step precursor. Now imagine that someone is deficient in the enzyme that converts nr to NMN, which is nR kinase k, if you are nr K deficient, and you wouldn't be able to use nr what I don't know is what the proportion of the population is deficient in nr K, and I don't know, but there is a possibility. The second reason that I personally prefer is that both have their own biological functions. And biological function for seem to be need to more important, and we, we seem to get a little better functional benefits from but in terms of elevating NAD, which both should be fine. Now niacin, I think we had a discussion on niacin. Niacin is very effective in elevating energy levels in some individuals and and but if you take high levels of niacin, you can get an energy level to the harmful level. And so every if you are putting your patients on niacin for whatever reason, you should check the energy level because it may be in harmful range, if not, if, if niacin increases NAD to too high level, you are going to increase the nicotinamide metabolize two py and four py, which have been shown recently to increase vascular inflammation and cardiovascular risk. So and also, to my knowledge, that niacin can reduce cholesterol, but it does not really provide cardiovascular protection, probably because of the increase in of NAD and NAD metabolites and vascular inflammation, that would be my guess.

Speaker 1  1:20:45
So to that question, there was another question here, so you can actually OD on NAD overdose. I get it's bad. High doses are bad for you. Is that what you're saying? Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:20:59
high doses is is bad for you, because you're increasing the nicotinamide terminal metabolites. So you do not based on what we have, you do not want to get any levels higher than 100 micromonna Based on our our test and you want to, you want to get a level between 40 and 100 micromolar, ideally between 50 and 75 micromolar. With with niacin levels can go to about 150 micromolar. And also we'll have some limited data indicating that niacin intake can be associated with increased pace of aging on the AB genetic clock. We don't have a lot of data, but very limited data, but there is a potential. So

Speaker 1  1:22:02
just want to clarify this so you cannot reach these toxic levels with nr and NMN. It's only 30 okay. You can also you

Speaker 4  1:22:11
can. So for about 5% of the individuals taking 1000 milligrams in MN and they can go near Ned can go beyond the 100 micro model by only about 5% and and with now, what's really interesting is people on high doses of niacin, they can have very high levels of NAD, but they don't seem to get The benefit of NAD. They actually they are doing poorly. So I, my personal opinion is we want to be extremely careful with high doses of niacin, because it doesn't seem to provide a lot of health benefits and the highest potentially harmful effect, if not monitored carefully. I I don't see any reason to take a high dose of a niacin.

Speaker 1  1:23:07
To that effect, which administration method would you prefer? Oral, IV, intra, muscular for for NAD well, so

Speaker 4  1:23:16
any NAD IV does not increase interest on the NAD at all. The NAD you put in through IV is degrading by 50% every six hours. So the half life of NAD is six hours by 24 hours, you got nothing left, almost nothing left in the blood. And so you really does not increase energy levels in the cells, but extra cellular energy can provide some temporal benefits, because they are nd receptors on neuronal cells and the immune cells. So the temporal effect of NAD IV come from extra cellular NAD, not intracellular NAD. But if you look at the functions of anything that everyone talks about is primarily through intracellular NAD, not extracellular NAD. Even though extracellular energy is important, I'm not saying it's not important. So you you do not you for, for anyone who does, nd IV, my recommendation is you want to also give them energy precursors are after IV, so you can get the intracellular energy optimized as well. Now intra muscular or subcutaneous energy injection actually can increase energy levels, although very few people can get their energy optimized, because the amount and the frequency that you inject are not sufficient to get energy levels high enough. And the choice is, you know, you have a very simple and cheap, non invasive way of all Ned precursors that work very well versus expensive, invasive energy injection and that does not optimize NAD. That's a personal, personal choice. I mean, I think the choice is very, very obvious for me, but I wouldn't tell anyone to water to do what is unclean to me is whether people can get extra benefit from sub queue or intra muscular need injection that or because don't don't give. I think that's still something that we can potentially study. And I my, my guess is probably not, but you never know, because you're injecting into the muscle and you may get some, some additional benefits that work, because don't, it's a positive is a unlikely possibility that's Not really compared. I'm open, I'm open to that. You know that? You know question.

Speaker 1  1:26:47
So basically, po oral, is kind of your your better option,

Speaker 4  1:26:52
or is the is a better option? Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:26:55
okay, all right. I think these are questions from your slides about testing panels, they're asking if the difference between just getting a plain CRP versus an HS CRP, yeah, also be indicative of longevity, yeah.

Speaker 4  1:27:14
So, so CRP. CRP is used when in a very acute situations, because the CRP never goes so high, and you don't, you don't need a high sensitivity CRP test, right? So in for surgery, if you, if someone's having surgery, you would take a, you would do a CRP test, not a high sensitivity test. If it's a infection, you probably would order a CRP test, but for COVID conditions, the CRP level is elevating, but not elevating that much. If you order a CRP, you would not be able to detect the difference. So you have to order a high sensitivity CRP you are measuring the same protein is you know how sensitive is assay? Can you detect minor changes, and the high sensitivity CRP assay detects minor changes, and the CRP assay detects very high levels of changes. So it depends on, it depends on the situation.

Speaker 1  1:28:27
This one, I think you mentioned during your presentation that you want your hemolym, a 1c in the middle, not too high, not too low, right? Why not? Why not low on a 1c whenever you go to your doctor, of course, they will always pat your back, saying, Good job on the low hemoglobin a one seat. So why is this detrimental

Speaker 4  1:28:47
you? You You saw the you saw the chart. That's the data. So almost every single bio marker with a few exceptions. The CRP is one exception. If you plot the wall cause mortality on the y and the levels on the x axis, you have a U shape curve, and somewhere in the middle, point is a sweet spot. If it's too high, you have higher war cause mortality, and with too low, you also have high wall cause mortality. That's that's the warmest University to accept information. The other one, and these are the only two that I I know you don't want any innovative information, and so why? Extremely no HBA, 1c would be, would be bad. That's a very good question. I did not really think about it. I'll have to get back to you, sure. So another, I mean, but the possibility is you have, you have a defect in glycosidation. That would be this water I would I can come up now, because I actually talked about this with another, another doctor today. So so we, yeah, we're talking about young, very one year old baby girl who has a premature aging and and she actually has had extremely low levels of GSP, now, extremely low levels of GSP is associated with cancer and now with pre mature aging. And the only possibility I can really think about is when now in cancer patients is different, because many cancer patients are low in albumin. So if your albumin levels are low, your GSP levels can be low. I think that's why we see lower levels with GSP in cancer patients. But with this premature aging girl, her GSP is low, and everyone says, No. Now I think that's the indication of glyco nation defect, or glycation defect. Glycation different, you know, maybe, maybe harmful as well.

Speaker 1  1:31:38
I don't know that that's the only thing I can come up with. At least we have theories, scientific theories, right? So one of the bigger longevity markers out there is telomere length. You didn't mention that in your presentation. Is that significant?

Speaker 4  1:31:53
Yeah. So I did not mention China lens for a number of reasons, and the first one is measurement of tnomial lens has been very difficult, and technology is improving now. And that's the first reason. The second reason is we do not have effective way or actionable way of increasing tinomous lens. And the third reason is tinomous lens is primarily determined by genetic factors, not by modifiable factors. And so even though having longer tinomous lens is is good for for longevity, no doubt about it. But on the other hand, there's very little we can do now to increase kilometer lens. There is a product. I'm not going to mention the name of the company, because I actually know who the founder and I will have some kind of a relationship and that net, that supplement is promoting kilometer length, increasing supplement i i studied the data, I offered to re analyze their data, but I have not received the data yet. I have, I have some special ways of looking at the data to I wanted to see what I can let me to put it this way, I was not impressed by the by the publication. I wanted to re examine the data to see whether I can come up with better evidence that the product can increase genome lens in a subset of individuals. And I was trying to find a way to, you know, to dive into the details a little more, to see what they can find any evidence because I was not impressed by the by the publication. If the product works, you know, we we want to know in what subset with the population the product works right? I'm worried about the personalization precision. If it can help with 10% of the population, I'm fine with it. I don't need it to work for everyone. We're never going to find the product that works for, you know, everyone. And if we can solve the problem for 10% of the population with one product, that's great. We'll find another product for the other 10% and, you know, with a few products, we will help more and more people. I have no problem with that approach, but you have to be able to know who you can help, and at least find a way to to tell people you are getting the benefit, but the other person is not getting the benefit. If you get the benefit, you continue. If you don't, you stop. It has to be decisions have to be made based on data, either before and or after actions. That's what I'm trying to, you know, preach, right? And this product

Speaker 1  1:35:17
is pretty expensive, and I think the heart of the product is extracts, so but anyway, another one would be, you mentioned about your clients that are professional athletes. Is any D use legal and professional sports if

Speaker 4  1:35:33
I, if I should have been, if nobody said it's not, is not an equal and also, I simply because energy is already part of your your your cellular composition, there's no way they are going to know what you're you're taking energy product or not, right? Because you're part of your body, it's a natural, naturally occurring substance in your own body. And I even they, even they want to out know an idea, I don't see how they can, they can implement it. Then I

Speaker 1  1:36:12
think the question was based on water policies. So these are the anti doping societies that checks athletes for doping. I think that's where this question is stemming from.

Speaker 4  1:36:24
I, well, I, to my knowledge, they are not testing led and what's in the you know, I'm, I'm the first company that can test energy levels, and I think 95% of the people come to me for immediate testing, and I'm pretty sure and they are not testing for immediate right? Okay, a lot of the football players are taking amn supplements anyways,

Speaker 1  1:36:56
right? So again, check the policies. If the one who asked this question, there is a Wada, a mandible out there that you can look into. I think this comes into a more personal question for you. You mentioned about your daughter, yeah, that you actually started her on a longevity plan. So the question was, I think more specifically, how young Can you start somebody on NAD and I guess your daughter what longevity plan she's on.

Speaker 4  1:37:23
So for for individuals younger than 20, i i would not recommend any supplementation unless they are testing and are deficient or sub optimal. So, so we supplement our, our now eight year old daughter, because she, she was a sub optimal and our four year old was not sub optimal. So we don't supplement her, although she fights with her older sister to have a seat from time to time, that's okay and we, I think, in is so safe and is safe for for children, I have no problem to give men to my four year old as actually she, she took some when She was three year old from time to time, and if she is deficient, I wouldn't have any problem to give her an MN, we have some children as young as two years old with Autism who take the product and get, get good benefits. And I think you know pregnant during pregnant, before pregnancy, during pregnancy and after, after. You know delivery women should supplement with any specialty. And mean people should supplement all the time, but especially during those time periods. And one thing that that OBGYN doctors don't pay attention to is how high the oxidative stress goes up during pregnancy. I believe that's probably related to many of the postpartum issues, and we can deal with that with some simple, simple supplementation. And that, you know, it's a it's a much bigger, bigger issue that I can take on, because people are very careful during pregnancy. I understand them, but these supplements are so safe, and I really think they should become part of the prenatal care, and that's going to take decades for if, for us to make any, any changes. I I feel I feel bad. I feel bad about it because we can, we can help so many people with so safe protocols, but we're not going to. I mean, that's, I

Speaker 1  1:40:23
think one of the bigger lessons that I got from you is taking any D can be too I mean, can be too much. You definitely want to check levels, because I have a patient who's taking NAD orally and also injectable. You've been doing IVs. And as you mentioned, the metabolites of NAD can be harmful to the cardiovascular system eventually. So I think that's a lesson for me that I hope gets through our audience. Also, that's all for me. Roger bill,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:51
two quick questions. One, what's, what do you consider a low level of hemoglobin? A, 1c,

Speaker 4  1:40:57
no, net was, let me bring the slides up, I think it's below 4.2 I believe,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:12
because I've seen it, you know, in our the labs we have here, it'll just say less than 4.2 Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:41:19
yeah. Is alright. So in in the in the normal population, the in risk starts increasing, I would say about 4.7 maybe five, five. I mean, I would support 4.7 or somewhere near, for the diabetic is five, 5.5 point 5.6 maybe 5.2 somewhere near.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:59
Okay, all right, there's a comment or a question is, hasn't the FDA banned NMN,

Speaker 4  1:42:06
the the FDA did not ban mm, but the they send out a notice to to name and production companies and telling them that name and should not be used as a diet with supplement. But the FDA is not enforcing this regulation, and there's also lawsuit filed by the MPA natural product Association, and we don't know what's going to what's going to happen. I, most of us in the field, believe that there's no way the FDA can ban mm as a dietary supplement because millions of people are using it in the United States and getting greater getting greater results. Hopefully, if k, I don't know your politics, I'm not a politician. I'm not in any camp of politics. Hopefully, if k, will reverse the FDA decision. I mean, the FDA has been reversing their decision previously, for example, on on the sea, NDC was NDC was in the same situation about three years ago, and the FDA sent out the notice, and later on, they were forced to issue non enforcement notification, if you want. We believe the same

Bill Clearfield  1:43:52
peptides in the same situation too, in

Speaker 4  1:43:55
the same situation. And you know, I hopefully, I don't know. I mean, you know the we will have some major changes on the on the FDA

Unknown Speaker  1:44:09
side, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:12
somebody asked about dosages on NMN, yeah.

Speaker 4  1:44:16
So you, you want to start with 1000 milligrams of NMN and about 75% of the population will get to optimal energy levels. About 25% need more than 1000 milligrams, and probably 1500 milligrams daily, but 5% need less than 1000 milligrams, so you have to test it to dose them out and what's near a proper dosage?

Bill Clearfield  1:44:52
Okay, okay, that's that's everything here, just one last question going all the way back to the beginning on your simple markers, we used to get fractionated, ldhs, LDH 12345, and we don't see that as a biomarker.

Speaker 4  1:45:11
I do, I do test the LDH in in in our in our panel, and because I think it's a good means a good, good market for a number of things, but especially in the in the biohack community, I I want to make sure that they are not getting damages and and also not People are taking, taking the creating in creating now, creating can increase, creating kinase CK. Now, when I see the high CK level, I want to know what is due to muscle damage or is just increased muscle mass, so LDH will help me to to do a letter in or out. And also, another related point is, if you, if someone's taking creating, the Creatinine level may go up, and many, many doctors and even nephrologist would get a free cloud and because they see increased creatinine and they think the kidney function is is compromised, which is absolutely not right interpretation, good creating would increase muscle mass and increase the muscle mass, muscle will increase Creatinine level, and you cannot use creatinine to properly evaluate the kidney function anymore, so you want to use the study in C maybe Bang and ACR and other kidney biomarkers in those situations.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:02
What about GFR?

Speaker 4  1:47:04
Can you use GFR? You can use the GFR, but very few people measure GFR because it's difficult. And so most people use EGFR will estimate the GFR. And this most people use the Creatinine to estimate the GFR. And so now we are, we are actually using both creatinine and the C, starting C to estimate the GFR, because of the creating issue. You don't know how many, how many, how many? Doctor call me Hey, you know I got higher creatinine. I mean, as did you measure the other biomarkers in the system? See, and bonus this, oh, it's normal. You know, that's, that's what I would expect creating, is increasing muscle mass. You are going to get more creatinine in in some individuals, not everyone, but some.

Benoit Tano  1:48:00
I have a quick question, if you give niacin, pure niacin, does that help with a kidney function?

Speaker 4  1:48:10
I don't know what the niacin helps kidney function. I don't know the answer,

Benoit Tano  1:48:17
okay, because I heard that it's possible people who have who are having kidney failure, if they give them a pure niacin, the one the flush one, not the non flush one, yeah, actually, but do much better.

Speaker 4  1:48:29
I do not, I do not know the answer. Sorry.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:36
How long do you supplement before checking NAD levels?

Speaker 4  1:48:39
We recommend the three to four weeks after supplementation.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:47
Okay, great. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Well, we, we can't. Thank you enough. Doctor, doctor, she, it's been a great night, and we, I think we all learned a lot. I'm going to shut the video off now so you have any anything you can say you want to talk freely. You can put in your company's products and things like that in the chat or talk about them. And it's been two hours. I think we're gonna, we're gonna wrap it up here quickly, yes,

Speaker 4  1:49:23
yeah. I mean, what I want to say is, you know, we I starting this company to help doctors and and consumers, and we try to provide the tools, especially testing tools and and we are, we focus on innovative biomarkers, and if you we have a number of biomarkers that we can test now. But what we what we are special is our ability to work with you on anything that you consider important and interesting, and we can work together to move the field forward. And we also have pipeline of supplements that are highly effective, and we don't put out anything that's not, that's not, you know, highly effective. And even what's really surprising to me when I got into this field is i is, a lot of the products on the market, unfortunately, don't really work well enough. So we are we're trying to change the situation and and we want to, you know, data to back up any actions, and not just at the population level. And we want to be able to demonstrate benefits or lack of benefits from each each individual. So that's, that's our specialty. And we, I look at it as a scientific project instead of a commercial program, if you want. So I, I look forward to work with anyone who you know, who want to take a scientific approach and and and offer better patient care outcome, and I'm here and I can put my my email in the chat.

Speaker 1  1:52:00
Yeah, it's good to know that you're doing clothes, though, and NAD testing. So if anybody's interesting on the providers here, dr, she can actually do that for us.

Speaker 4  1:52:09
Yeah. And also, I want to emphasize oxidative stress. Everyone should check the oxidative stress and also senescence. These are the four big ones. NAD closer, oxidative stress and

Unknown Speaker  1:52:27
inflammation, senescence

Speaker 4  1:52:29
and inflammation, five, five big ones. And we have, you know, we have a unique set of biomarks in these five big areas. And so, yeah, you have my phone numbers and my email address, and I be happy to discuss with you and give you more details on how that works,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:55
what would be an estimated cost for a panel like that that you just mentioned it

Speaker 4  1:53:01
we have a provider panel, and this panel is 650

Speaker 1  1:53:10
Okay. Dr, Shi, you got some requests already to come back to talk about clothes, though. So you got some fans already. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:17
I can come back and talk about the clothes. So

Bill Clearfield  1:53:20
sure we'll get you after the first of the year. Dr Shi, that sounds

Speaker 4  1:53:25
good, and yeah, I'll get to I'll get the closer data together.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:30
Okay, thank you all so much. Everybody was on tonight. Dr xi, this was great. We'll send you the contact information, and hopefully, I know some of the videos have have not been rendering, so hopefully it's working tonight. I tested it. That's why the new, newer ones. The last two weeks, I've just been an issue with it so and again, Dr sheet was on last minute. We were actually supposed to have Stephen Hartman tonight, but he's in Barcelona, or someplace like that, I don't know. So, so we'll see you again next week. And just a little heads up, Christmas and New Year's Eve are Tuesday nights at the end of December, and I'm taking off so, so we're going to have two weeks off. I haven't had two weeks off in four years, so we're going to take two weeks off and listen. It's somebody else wants to run this show. Let me know, and I'll be happy to hand it over. But so thank you so much, doctor. She I'm sure we're going to be hearing from you'll be hearing from us, and we'll be hearing from you again. And are you? Are you have any conferences that you're speaking at,

Speaker 4  1:54:41
speaking at the eight, 4am in December. Oh, nice.

Benoit Tano  1:54:45
Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:54:46
I'll be speaking on Saturday afternoon, and then Sunday night, I'm going to the red COVID. Have you heard the bio, bio hack yourself movie premiere? No, yeah, yeah, that's that's going to be a three, I think, three parts of biohacking movie that's making big, big news. And I was a part of the the group, and there's going to be a red carpet celebration Sunday night after a 4am Oh, nice. Okay, that's going to be fun.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:24
Alright, terrific. It should be fun. And we'll see you. We'll see you there at a 4m so, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:32
great, yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:34
I'll be there. Doctor Nario knows going to be there. Doctor queen, you're going to be there.

Speaker 2  1:55:38
Oh yeah, most assuredly Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:41
and, and anybody else you know make yourself known. Yeah, let's get together. We usually like to get together. It's the one or two times a year we actually get to see each other in person and, and we usually have a pretty good time there. So I don't know how much we learn. Doctor Patel wasn't too impressed with the oyster, but I don't know how much we learned, but at least we get to see each other instead of just looking on a screen here. So So okay, we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, 8pm Eastern, 5pm Pacific. And anybody. I always like what I always ask, bring one friend, and we'll double our senses so and we'll, we'll send you the the contact information when we get it ready, doctor, she and thank again, thank you. Thank you enough for especially it was last minute, so we'll see you all again next week. Alright? And thank you. Okay, night, everybody. Oh, one last thing, if you're interested in the research group, that's on Saturday morning, and I was able to fob that off on Doctor Benoit. So get me your contact, and I'll get it to him, or get it to him and and we'll if you want, if you want to be part of that. And so, and now Good night.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:01
Thank you.

Benoit Tano  1:57:03
Bye bye. CooL.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai