Bill Clearfield  00:03
Let's get together. Yeah, yeah, oh, I'm

Speaker 1  00:07
sorry. Your evidence, waiter, I didn't do way I did it.

Bill Clearfield  00:11
Okay, let me just, just put it over at the those. No, no. These are these. Go to the to the cleaning people. What I do is I fold them up, I put Julie's cleaners and put it on the top of the desk fair after you leave, and then, and then they, they take that's this is they get paid. This is their you.

Bill Clearfield  00:45
Leave this on top of your desk when they when they come tonight, they come and get it. Got it.

Bill Clearfield  01:23
Oh, there you go. Did you see the last part of my thing? I said, if you need a smooch, come on over. Hey. Yeah, I know we get that. I need vitamin D also, yeah, 5000 and then couple. And you actually need a couple of things, but I gotta, I got, I'm signed in here, so I gotta admit these folks, Okay, nice. Are you done for the day?

Unknown Speaker  01:56
Probably

Bill Clearfield  01:58
no, you'll do X tonight. But you know, I got to get little things for my trip, because, you know, I'm only going to do a carry on. And if I take the big, I take the big shampoo or something, or, you know, the toothpaste, they keep it. So do I? Okay? Yeah, say hello to Stefan. Hey, how you doing? Look, who's here. Who's that? Your best. Oh, hey, your best. Your best cheerleader here.

Speaker 1  02:37
How are you all? How's your family?

Speaker 2  02:41
Great, excellent. We are gearing up to go to Italy next week for the conference.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
Wonderful. We're all going.

Unknown Speaker  02:51
Where in Italy will you be bologna? Bologna.

Unknown Speaker  02:54
All right.

Bill Clearfield  02:56
What are you talking about?

Speaker 2  02:59
I'm giving the brain optimization lecture. Oh, okay, in Italian, in

Bill Clearfield  03:06
Italian, Wow, that's impressive. Very nice. All right,

Unknown Speaker  03:11
good to see you.

Unknown Speaker  03:13
Give my Give my regards to your wife,

Speaker 2  03:15
Logan, I will. Name's Logan, yeah. Okay, all right. How's the tennis going? I've been training real hard. Are you playing over there? When you go, yeah, I play. I played twice today. I played once in the morning. I played once in the afternoon. Yesterday, I'm playing tomorrow morning, because I got a tournament this weekend, so I'm training

Bill Clearfield  03:42
pretty hard. When do you when do you have time for doctoring in between all the dentists

Speaker 2  03:46
I only had to see, like three patients or two patients today? Okay, don't work too hard. That has been pretty light schedule. Everybody's optimized. All the hormones are stable.

Bill Clearfield  03:58
That's the problem. If you, if you fix them, then, then they don't need you anymore.

Speaker 2  04:04
Well, that's why we have the direct primary care model. It works, and they pay every month, whether I see them or not. So when everybody's stabilized, everybody's happy. I mean, it's smooth sailing from there.

Bill Clearfield  04:18
Okay, okay, and there's Doctor Kent. So, yeah,

Speaker 2  04:26
you're muted. We'll get he's going to give us a show tonight, right?

Bill Clearfield  04:31
Going to give us a show. He said it was short. So I'm leaving for Clearwater on Friday

Unknown Speaker  04:39
or Thursday, okay?

Bill Clearfield  04:40
And I'm doing the effects of vitamin C on hormone optimization. So if Kent's only goes a half hour, I'm going to, I'm going to give you what I'm doing on on Friday. So,

Speaker 2  04:53
so Clearwater is that for vacation.

Bill Clearfield  04:56
Now that's for that Leone Leo's sharer, she does vitamin C. You know, the whole world revolves around vitamin C, according to this

Speaker 2  05:08
person. So okay, and so you go there for a conference. Forget, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:12
yeah. She's got a vitamin C conference for 1600 bucks for two days. You kidding me? Well, I'm not paying it.

Speaker 2  05:19
You know, the Italian conference is super cheap. It was only like 200 euros. Obviously, they gave me tickets, but I tried to get one of my Italian doctor friends to go to it, and he's like, it's too expensive. I can't go. I'm like, 200 bucks for a two day functional medicine conference. Yeah, do you know what

Bill Clearfield  05:35
you're coming out to ours? Right?

Speaker 2  05:38
Reno? No, I'm not going out to Reno. After all this, he would love Reno. It's hard to compare Italy to Reno. All

Speaker 3  05:50
right, I'm seeing if this is gonna work real quick here. Okay. Share.

Bill Clearfield  06:05
You got zoom workspace app? There you go.

Speaker 3  06:12
You got it so that's showing glycocalyx for generating agents.

Bill Clearfield  06:18
Yep, that's what we got cool.

Speaker 3  06:27
I also have a document that I'm going to share with you. I'll email it to you bill, and everyone can have access to it. It's an executable Word doc that has a lot of references in it, you can go straight to these study and I didn't realize all the things that this substance actually there's over 1300 studies as of 2023 so there's a bunch more. I just and, well, anyway, we'll get started when you're ready. Do we have Dr Nario? Yeah, he's gonna give us our words of wisdom, yeah, of course.

Bill Clearfield  07:18
It's a, it's, you know, it's a rite of passage here.

Unknown Speaker  07:22
Let me stop sharing.

Bill Clearfield  07:27
Well, if we send you two bucks for your for, you know, 25 cents for your for, you know it's worth you have to take that slide out where it says you're not getting paid. You know, you know that expression. I'll give you my two cents worth.

Unknown Speaker  07:44
Okay, I will,

Unknown Speaker  07:49
all right.

Bill Clearfield  07:51
And how so, how we doing? Dr Nario, how are we doing with the conferences moving along? Yeah,

Speaker 4  07:57
so we got another sponsor that wants to sneak in there. So now we're log jamming. We're we're getting too many sponsors. How we're going

Bill Clearfield  08:06
to do that? Well, we're going to do breakfast ones, okay. Oh, okay. So 750 well, they can have 738 o'clock in the morning for a non CME breakfast before we well,

Unknown Speaker  08:17
I got 1000 coming in, all right? Well,

Bill Clearfield  08:20
then make it 1000 we're not going

Speaker 4  08:24
to get the Continental. Then we're going to get the more expensive

Bill Clearfield  08:28
Well, Thursday was it Friday? Friday is the more expensive breakfast, right? So make sure you come Friday. We got the more expensive breakfast on Friday,

Speaker 4  08:37
yes, but yeah, it's another pharmacy. So I don't know if you locked in college already.

Bill Clearfield  08:43
So I'm pretty sure they're coming. I just didn't get get a chance to get back to Dawn tonight. So

Speaker 4  08:51
Right? Because this one is for sure about to pay. They're already paying. They can't get in. I can't

Bill Clearfield  08:55
get you know why they can't get in? That was, we blocked that out because that one's already taken, that's why. And he just forgot to take it off the the thing it should be off by the time we're done here, I have him rearranging.

Speaker 4  09:11
I gave Kevin the number so he can call them directly, so he can begin the system straight up. And did you tell everybody the band that we're going to have?

Bill Clearfield  09:19
Did we get the room? Is that settled?

Speaker 4  09:22
I sent them the details, but from the looks of it, they're just going to give me the price on how much it would be, all right, so, but they already know the band is playing, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  09:33
So we got so Friday night. As you know, those of you have been to our Sora ways before, we don't just, do you know we'll get, we'll give you some cheap wine that you get from, you know, it's now three Buck Chuck and and make you traits among the sponsors. You know, you know the vendors. So, you know, we like to do stuff. So Friday night we have tea and keys, which is a very popular 60s and 70s band, and they'll be playing for us. We're going to have dinner on Friday night, December 5, and our very own doctor, Fong, sings with them also, and he's actually pretty good for, you know, a doctor anyway, but singing,

Speaker 4  10:21
he's multi talented. Yeah, yeah. Phrase it that way,

Bill Clearfield  10:26
yeah. So, yeah, you know. So, you know, he's, he works on, he's usually seeing patients at this time. So he's not on for the Bruce has been the sort of the face of osteopathic medicine for ever since I got to, got to Nevada, and he's been the president of Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association. He's been a big help to me, and he's been a big help to us. He's also, what is he? He's the president. Is he the president of the homeopathic board? Yeah. So, yeah,

Speaker 4  10:57
he's all, he's all over the place. He's doing everything that guy's amazing.

Bill Clearfield  11:02
Yeah, he's got eight kids of that too. I call he's got eight kids, and I call him on a Friday night, and he calls me back. He's he leaves me a message, sorry, I'm in Bible study. Call me back at 11. So how the hell do you have time for Bible study with eight kids and working full

Speaker 4  11:19
time? That's why he needs to go to Bible study. He needs divine intervention.

Bill Clearfield  11:26
Think it's a little too late.

Speaker 4  11:29
I don't know about that, but he's doing it. The man's amazing.

Bill Clearfield  11:32
Yeah? So, so those of you, you'll get to meet him, those of you don't know him here, he'll be here. He'll be one of our moderators.

Unknown Speaker  11:42
Yeah, the host with the most,

Bill Clearfield  11:44
the host with the most so. So the agenda is set Friday night. We have entertainment. We have breakfast at 730 every morning. And we have, we have, really have more sponsors than we can handle, and so we're going to put them in on the ones that are coming now on Friday morning from 738 for non CME, what we need Are attendees. Pa Hartman, at least online. We need attendees and Dr Sulak, good to see you. It's been a long time.

Unknown Speaker  12:27
Good to see you, too. Bill, good to see you. Hey.

Bill Clearfield  12:30
Good to see you. We haven't we haven't had you on in a long time. What are you What are you doing on December 9, Tuesday night? Can we

Speaker 5  12:41
have you on November 9, Tuesday night, December 9. December 9. Let's find out. I'll probably be here in the clinic just like I am tonight. I've got a I got a webinar scheduled at Eight with you guys.

Bill Clearfield  12:56
There you go. You got it all right?

Speaker 5  13:00
Is that as an attendee or a presenter? You're asking, you're the presenter. I'm the presenter. All right, I better come up with the topic. Thank you. I'll find a good one. I think you

Speaker 3  13:11
have a few. Man, you have some great ones.

Unknown Speaker  13:14
Dustin, okay, we'll

Bill Clearfield  13:18
do it. So, in case you don't know what we're talking about, we're getting the gang back together live December, 4 to sixth in Reno. It's a bit of an impromptu. Those of you don't that don't know it's a bit of an impromptu, but we're doing a live and online conference. The real impetus for it was the Nevada board of homeopathic members need CME credits by the end of the year, so that was the real, real impetus for it. But we have a pretty good lineup, and we have, let me talk for a minute. Dr Nari, I'm going to get the

Speaker 4  13:57
website you want me to for the week.

Bill Clearfield  14:01
Now, let me, let me, let me do this, and then we'll do the web of the week here. So

Speaker 4  14:08
well the star speakers, shallenberg, Dr Shallenberger. We got Thomas Levy. We got Sahar Sweden. Here are

Bill Clearfield  14:17
a superstar. So we got, oh, there sahars with Dan. Those of you know her, you know, she's a pharmacist. She's like the number two gal at a 4m and she speaks on many topics. Felice Gersh, you know, we've had her on here. We've had her live, you know, in Vegas and in Reno. And if you follow her on Instagram, every Thursday night. She's doing a real Dr shalen burgers, you know, the ozone, ozone king. And then Thomas Levy, he's coming up from medi Mede, Colombia, like this. I guess that's where he's, he's based. And he's, he's, you know, sort of the do all and be all. We had him in Las Vegas, also, our last live one. So these are, these are our sort of keynote speakers. You would pay a lot of money to see each one of them in, you know, in, you know, live for what they do. And so our conference is 20 ama CME credits, and it's it's online. It'll be online. It'll be live. It is the Congress of medical excellence.com. There's the here's the homepage, here. And if you haven't gotten an announcement, let me know you should have, I've been putting it in the in the weekly email also. And the venue is the element. So it's a small hotel. I mean, it's only hold 60, you know, in the rooms. Like I said, you know, this was kind of an impromptu one. Usually it takes me eight to 12 months to put a conference together, and we did this in about, what, six weeks. So it's a small hotel. There's not, it's not a casino. There's no smoke here. It's, it's not, you know, elegant, but it's, it's clean, and it's, you know, it'll serve our purpose. And you know, one of the, one of the, one of the things is that, you know, we haven't been together in person unless we've been to other venues in in a long time. So I don't know what else to tell you. Here's the agenda. So Thursday is research day. So you know, our group has, we have a research wing, and they'll be presenting some of their findings. That'll be on Thursday. Friday is homeopathy day that Dr Gerber's group, and we have Dr levy is going to speak for three hours for us on healing by healing disease, by reversing the pathology. And then Friday or Saturday is going to be integrative medicine, and I'm going to do a fun one. I hope I'm going to talk about my Oh, my God, nearly 50 years as an anti aging physician, and I'm going to go through decade by decade, from the 70s up to the present, the innovation, the things that I that have helped me in my practice, and the innovations that I've I've put forth. I did this once before. It was really fun to put together. And those of you don't know I was actually worked at one of the original Pritikin clinics, and that's in the 70s, if you know who Nathan Pritikin was. So that's kind of where I started. And I went all the way to, you know, we're doing regenerative stuff now so, and we kind of look down on what we did back in the 70s, with no fat, 10% fat diets. So, so I hopefully that'll be a fun one. Dr Nario is going to be talking about laboratory issues, and we even going to have Marlene Siegel, our integrative veterinarian, who does all sorts of neat stuff that we can't do as people doctors, she can do as a, as a, as a fur baby doctor. So we've had her here, on here on Wednesday nights also. So if you, if you need, if you need contact, please, you know, get in touch with me. Dr Nario, you know, put it in the chat, and we'll let with that. Dr Nario, why don't you give us? We can start with our tip of the week, and I'll take over the the Admissions here.

Speaker 4  18:41
So alright, so again, thanks for joining us. Everybody. Today, we're diving into chelation therapy, the magnet that we always hear about in detox medicine. So think of it as sending a cleaning crew into your bloodstream, except this crew studied chemistry at Harvard, and we got the heavy hitters, EDTA, DMPS, DMSA. So fantastic at pulling out lead, mercury and arsenic, but they can also strip good minerals, which is why natural chelators are the more balanced cleanup team. So the ones that I can recommend in terms of the natural ways and how to do this is modified citrus pectin. So that's number one. This is the general sponge from citrus peel, and it binds toxic metals in the gut and prevents reabsorption. So Elias et al 2006 so saw volunteers taking MCP showed increased urinary excretion of lead, mercury and arsenic, with no side effects. Dosing would be five grams three times a day, just like you're running a gentle filter through your system, so steady, safe and effective. The second one that we always know about is chlorella, so single cell green algae that behaves like a biosponge. It grabs metals like cadmium mercury, while nourishing the body with chlorophyll and amino acids. ClearOS et al, 2003 saw chlorella enhance cadmium elimination specifically and protected the liver tissue from oxidative stress. While doing this, dosing would be three to 10 grams per day, so just make sure you get a clean source. So there's so many contaminants out there in terms of algae, so just just be watchful and know where you're getting it from number three, alpha lipoic acid, and this is the universal antioxidant and key later that works in both fat and water soluble it causes the blood brain barrier. So that's why it's perfect for removing toxins in their brain, and especially for the neural tissue. Hacker et al of 1995 ala restored antioxidant status and improved metal induced oxidative stress. In animal models, those thing would be 300 to 600 milligrams per day. It's small, fast and efficient, basically the chelation equivalent of a Tesla. So glutathione and NAC and the final, this is the final recommendation that I want. And these are, these are my favorites, actually. So your body's internal detox to well, and the NAC boost glutathione levels because it's the precursor so which binds metals like mercury and cadmium. From excretion, Laura et al, 2009 NAC and glutathione enhanced Mercury elimination and reduce oxidative damage in exposed subjects. Dosing for glutathione, 500 to 1000 milligrams per day, ideally IV, but sure oral, there's also liposomal forms, the more absorbable ones, and for NAC, 600 to 1200 milligrams per day together, they act like a two person hazmat crew for your cells. So whether you're using pharmaceuticals like EDTA, DMSA, under supervision, make sure it's under supervision and relying on natural chelators, on ongoing support, the goal is the same, reduce toxic metal burden safely so dangerous options, MCP, florella, ALA and glutathione, which offers a gentle, sustainable approach to keeping the body's biochemistry clean and balanced. Remember, good detox isn't about doing more. It's about doing it smarter. That's our tip of the day. Cool.

Bill Clearfield  22:02
Okay, so today's tonight. We have Kent Crowley, and those of you have been with us, Kent's no stranger to any of us. He's been a great friend and a good colleague for a long time. He's going to be talking to us about the glycocalyx and cardiovascular health, and you touch on hypertension to Kent. So Kent's a diplomat of the American Academy of anti aging medicine. He received his doctorate of pharmacy from the UCSF in 1983 he had completed his residency at Kaiser Permanente in Los Angeles. In 42 years of practice, he's worked in all areas of pharmacy, including primary research, pediatrics, child development. He's run clinical studies in involving several development several drugs. He has two patents in neuropathic pain and two patents on buccal delivery systems incorporating cannabis. He completed a fellowship in functional genomic, metabolic and nutritional medicine in 2011 he's currently the Chief Medical Officer for Farm to pharma in Reno, Nevada, palliative care consultants in Moreno Valley, California, and President of Crowley consultants in Temecula, California. He's an expert in lifestyle medicine, he works with patients and physicians to optimize perpetual health, the use of evidence based nutraceuticals, including plasmalogens, bioidentical hormones, cannabis, he optimizes the microbiome, cellular metabolism. Uses genomics and addresses excursions from health to disease and symptom management and so with that, which is quite a lot, I'm going to give you Doctor Kent. Kent told me, before you start, that this might be a little bit shorter than than usual. So if it is and but you know, if we have enough time, I am going to clear order Florida. I'm speaking at the vitamin C symposium. I'm talking about vitamin C and its effect on hormones. So I'll fill that in. If we have a little little time left over that will twist the Dustin's arm to come up with something in five minutes. Otherwise, okay. All right, Ken, go ahead. Sorry. Go

Speaker 3  24:23
for it. Thank you for inviting me to share a tool that I've been using clinically since January of 2021, it was introduced to me by Mark Houston, someone that I'm sure you're all familiar with. I also want to mention that this presentation was provided to me by the science department at Cal Roy for physician educational purposes. Why isn't it working? There we go. I don't have any affiliation with any company regarding the Talk or any of the product or actives that are in this talk learning objectives, evaluate the evidence for every patient to need vascular support, describe the critical importance of the endothelial glycocalyx, and do an overview of research on remnant sulfate from monostroma natidium, which is a gycocalyx regenerating compound. So why are we worried about vascular support? Cardiovascular disease continues to be the leading cause of death globally in the US, number one cause of death. Advances have slowed, and cardiovascular mortality is no longer falling like it was earlier. Current therapies aren't evenly applied and often have low compliance. Costs continue to skyrocket for individuals and the healthcare system. We'll see how Trump affects that, and covid 19 actually worsened a lot of these metrics.

Speaker 5  26:15
Hey, Ken, sorry to interrupt, I think for the presentation you're sharing this presenter screen that has the slides really small. It probably be better for the video if you switch it to like the

Unknown Speaker  26:29
full screen, if you it's not showing the right

Speaker 5  26:31
one, no, it's showing like the preview of the next slide and the treatment notes. I mean, the slide notes, the presentation notes.

Speaker 3  26:40
So stop, share, start, share. It's showing me on the screen desktop too. Let's see if this one works. Now. What are you Yeah, that looks better. Thanks. I wish someone would have told me that at the start, how do we what? How do we? Well, you're all familiar with the endothelium and the critical role of oxidative stress in cardiovascular conditions. We've got 60,000 miles of blood vessels and at least a trillion endothelial cells. This is important. This is an important area to focus on as part of the cardiovascular cascade, and how we know endothelial dysfunction is downstream. As technology has evolved, we've been able to see more details and information about blood vessels. This is a close up of blood vessels, and you can see there's a gap between the blood vessel and the flowing blood. What creates that gap, what we've what we've learned, is that the endothelium has a micro, thin inner lining called the endothelial glycocalyx. It's a protective inner lining made up of glycoproteins. It was only very recently imaged, which you can see here as a thin, hairy protrusion on the inside of the endothelium. You cannot have a healthy endothelium without a healthy EGX so the endothelial glycocalyx damage always precedes endothelial damage. So what does the healthy glycocalyx do? It's an intelligent gatekeeper the vascular systems. Bouncer. It helps store and dock. It's a storage, storage and docking area for antioxidants. It's a protective barrier to keep blood flowing smoothly, and it responds to increased blood flow by triggering nitric oxide release. It maintains vascular homeostasis and regulates vascular permeability and fluid balance, primarily mediated through the endothelial glycocalyx, we often think of the vasculature as just a tube, but it's actually a highly functional and dynamic structure which is both resilient and malleable and we can affect it. Lifestyle modifications are medic are mediated through the endothelial glycocalyx, and glycosylation and blood pressure control through the range renin angiotensin system. Let's take a look at some therapies that can impact the endothelial glycocalyx. All of these agents help prevent the EGX injury or help repair it by many different mechanisms. Hydrocortisone, for instance, blocks inflammatory mediators like TNF alpha. Doxycycline blocks matrix metalloproteinases, or the MMPs that degrade the EGX conversely, certain glycocalyx specific supplements aim to provide the building blocks like polysaccharides and amino sugars to strengthen that glycocalyx directly, which then supports healthy nitric oxide function. So what damages the glycocalyx? Everything that already puts you on alert for either cardiovascular disease or chronic illness, seems to damage the endothelial, glycocalyx. This list highlights just how hard it is to avoid damaging it in everyday life that traditional risk factors, hormone imbalances, chronic inflammation, functional risk factors and pathogens. Infections, they all influence the endothelial glycocalyx, so that damage has a profound effect throughout the body. This is a quick summary that demonstrates the first casualty in the vascular system, which is the endothelial glycocalyx. After the endothelial glycocalyx is compromised, endothelial function is impaired and nitric oxide production is reduced, resulting in that widespread damage. Importantly, the glycocalyx diminishes with age, at the same time that oxidative stress increases and Enos can become uncoupled, which leads to a vicious cycle of decreased nitric oxide and increasing oxidative stress in individuals with dysfunctional mitochondria or chronic inflammation. This can happen earlier and be more severe. One common risk factor is poor blood sugar control. A number of studies evaluating the endothelial glycocalyx and endothelial function use hyperglycemia challenges. In this example, hyperglycemia significantly decreased endothelial glycocalyx volume impaired endothelial function and it altered thrombotic activity.

Speaker 3  33:43
The endothelial cell inflammation is directly responsible for various cardiovascular diseases that we're all familiar with, hypertension, atherosclerosis, aging, stroke, you can see the list there. With endothelial dysfunction, also generating more inflammation, creating a vicious cycle of chronic inflammation and vascular damage. Until or unless we intervene, inflammation also damages the vessels in many ways, starting with the EGX, then in the endothelium, with the inflammasome activation and NF, Kappa Beta signaling, you get monocyte adhesion and macrophage differentiation that then followed by the initiation of coagulation and inflammatory inflammatory cytokine release, thus sending the inflammatory message to other tissues surrounding it, using genetic and chemical tools to probe functions of the s 1p receptor, one, which is also Known as the endothelial differentiation gene. One, this group elucidated cellular and signaling mechanisms that are important in initiating cytokine storm, the s1, p1, receptor is expressed on endothelial cells and lymphocytes within lung tissue, the s1, p1, agonism suppresses cytokines and innate immune cell recruitment in wild and lymphocyte deficient mice, Thus identifying endothelial cells as central regulators of cytokine storm. Their data reveal immune cell infiltration and cytokine production as distinct events that are both orchestrated by the endothelial cells. So what can we do about it? Damage to the endothelial glycocalyx precedes endothelial damage. If the endothelium is damaged, the glycocalyx is already impaired. We all know the importance of glycemic control, a nutrient rich diet, helps reduce the oxidative stress that damages the glycocalyx, as does reducing toxins and stress and keeping up with constant movement to keep blood flowing normally. Remnant sulfate has been identified as a therapeutic opportunity in several studies. So let's take a closer look at some of the science, and you'll have a huge set of references that you can look at this substance actually is amazing. Researchers developed a micro fluidic chip with living human endothelial glycolic cells to test what compounds harmed or regenerated the end those endothelial glycocalyx cells, they used a wide variety of marine based polysaccharides that included flu coidions From brown seaweed and ramnin sulfate from green seaweed. When they were testing it, they were using, again, a high glucose challenge. So researchers invented an innovated micro fluetic Chip testing platform mimicking real world conditions, this allowed them to prove that remnant sulfate from monostroma natidium had the desired combination of powerful and Safe protection and restoration of living human endothelial glycocalyx cells. The extract was proven to be able to restore those living endothelial glycocalyx cells up to 103% after a glycemic challenge. This study demonstrates the power of remnant sulfate to support the endothelial glycocalyx and condition mimicking the real in the real world.

Speaker 3  39:13
So RAM and sulfates known functions include antiviral, anticoagulant, anti tumor activities. It inhibits helironidase activity and is anti hyperchloster REMIC effects. It decreases blood sugar and it helps with weight control. Remnant sulfate inhibits endothelial cell inflammation, tissue factor and von Willebrand factor are both secreted in response to inflammation. TF contributes to thrombus formation, and VW, f increases platelet aggregation, remnant sulfate in the setting of LPs induced endothelial cell inflammation decreases both markers in this small study, an n of the total of 12 each control and test group, N of six, these six week old mice were fed a normal diet, with the test group being supplemented with Ram and sulfate at a 250 milligram per kilo body weight dose for 11 weeks and then sacrificed. This study showed that remnant sulfate significantly improved insulin resistance and decreased fasting blood glucose. Clinton significantly lowered fasting total cholesterol and significantly lowered homeostatic model, the homeostatic model of insulin resistance. This cellular study showed that remnant sulfate inhibited endothelial cell inflammation, induced clotting activation while reducing inflammation, inflammatory markers, inhibiting both thrombin activation and release of von Willebrand factor when those cells were exposed to either LPS or T TNF alpha,

Speaker 3  41:45
how does the endothelial glycocalyx support change outcomes? Here's an additional study showing that in healthy human adults, the remnant sulfate has beneficial effects on glucose levels. That's positive feed that's a positive feed forward cycle protecting the glycocalyx and vascular health.

Speaker 3  42:20
Neuropathy is one of those conditions for which we have few tools, and yet it's quite common, especially in type two diabetics. In a small pilot study of type two diabetics with peripheral neuropathy, lower extremity neuropathy was significantly improved by the addition of a remnant sulfate supplement to ongoing care. The single change, that single change improved both small nerve conduction and subjective scores from the participants. The largest improvement we're seeing in the first month.

Speaker 3  43:13
This is a study of six patients case studies that were followed in that cardiovascular integrative program, which was successfully managing the cardiovascular system systems and symptoms and risk factors while keeping Various biomarkers under control. However, they continued to exhibit carotid plaque with no improvement. They used a novel dietary supplement that targets endothelial glycocalyx regeneration and that was added to the personalized intervention programs that they were currently on. The supplement contains a proprietary extract of RAM and sulfate from the green seaweed monostroma natidium. The six participants consumed the supplement daily, and their plaque burden was measured after six months using the same C, i, m, t technology. In every case, the total plaque burden was reduced with an average reduction in the six patients of 5.55 millimeters, which is statistically significant, significant reductions in maximum carotid plaque thickness were also observed at the end of the six months. The study suggests that remnant sulfate from monostroma natidium may provide a safe and effective intervention for reducing atherosclerotic plaque and should be evaluated as an adjunct therapy for prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease, even though the endothelial glycocalyx is very fragile and vulnerable to a whole bunch of different insults. The good news is that is also incredibly resilient, because it can regenerate relatively quickly, especially if given the proper support and building blocks. The endothelial glycocalyx is both fragile and resilient, like the microbiome, and there is a direct connection between the two. With the right support, it can be healed, but it is subject to constant insults, improving improving lifestyle, reducing inflammation, controlling blood pressure and glucose regulation is all beneficial. When I put a patient that's hypertensive on medication, on the supplement, I typically see a blood pressure drop on average diastolic of 11 points with nitric oxide. So key takeaways the endothelial glycocalyx damage precedes endothelial dysfunction. The EGX is intricately related to nitric oxide production, Ram and sulfate from monostrom. And the tidium is a powerful and safe glycocalyx support compound, and RS protects and supports the endothelial glycocalyx. It protects against blood sugar fluctuations, has promising pilot studies for peripheral neuropathy, stubborn plaque, hypertension and a number of other conditions. And like I said, I have a reference word document that I'd like to share with everyone. There's over 13 study

Unknown Speaker  47:30
what is this? I know. What is

Unknown Speaker  47:33
this again?

Unknown Speaker  47:34
Oh, that's when

Speaker 5  47:35
you make a picture with your with your camera on your iPhone.

Unknown Speaker  47:40
No shell you got to hit mute.

Speaker 3  47:47
That I'd like to share with everyone. I'll share it with Dr Bill, and you can send it out as well as the article on the case studies. It's really a good read. I was expecting to get more updated information from a talk that Mark Houston had given, talking about, at a five year point, cardiova, hardening of the arteries. Are talking specifically about plaque and calcium being essentially removed with therapy, at least on one case that Mark Houston has worked on. So I am finding it successful in my clinical practice. And so I thought it was valuable, you know, to share with everybody else. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  48:47
All right, terrific. So, so where do we get this stuff?

Unknown Speaker  48:52
Are we not recording now we are

Bill Clearfield  48:56
we can? Okay, we'll get that later. Okay, alright. Anybody have any questions? I was

Speaker 1  49:04
just going to say, thank you. I actually have a glyco check at my office that gives the micro vascular health score, and I learned about this by Dr Mark and by Han to help develop it. And you know, during covid, I could tell who had had how many boosters or not. And, you know, just plain rich fiber looked totally different, and the growth factor was less. So after repairing the end of, you know, the endothelium and the endocales, or blackocalyx, excuse me, the quality was better. So the work was better in the esthetic element. So just wanted to give it ura, thank you. It's nice to know somebody else on the scene.

Speaker 3  49:40
Yeah, I've seen that clinically as well.

Speaker 4  49:46
Okay, so to add to Ken, so with this product that you're saying, so this has been studied again, a frame has been doing a lot of extensive study on this that the product you're mentioning. It takes almost three months to see the results. So this so it's taken bid so twice today, and that's measured by Dr Houston, arterial elasticity had improved 89% after the continuous intake of this specific supplement. So that's why this is something that works well with other supplements, also another branded one, I think, the nitric oxide booster that you just mentioned. So one of the questions here in the email is, what other supplements do you suggest to add to your the product that you mentioned so it can actually be maximized or we can see more benefits from it?

Speaker 3  50:37
Well, I always test a patient and look at their nitric oxide level by a very simple saliva test using a, you know, like a dipstick. Takes 1015, seconds to run. It's color coded, and you look at the threshold from deficient to, you know, a high level. So I always use nitric oxide in combination with arterial cell.

Unknown Speaker  51:13
Oops. Okay, all right, is I really tried hard.

Unknown Speaker  51:20
We have a black machine somewhere,

Speaker 6  51:30
MK seven. Vitamin k2 is MK seven in addition.

Speaker 3  51:35
I mean, those are, I mean, that's the basic you're you're always looking at optimizing vitamin D always include K, k2 even though all the data supporting K, or The vitamin k2 is is MK four, mostly from Japan. MK seven has a longer half life, and it's less expensive and it's easier to to acquire, and that's why most of the supplement companies use MK seven instead of MK four. Thank you.

Speaker 4  52:20
So you can definitely add your fish oil also omegas and resveratrol, quercetin. So there's an actual anti aging protocol that doctor Houston had created in relation to and now he he actually had mentioned about C, i, m, t, and you did mention about that too. So by using this combination of both these two products, the CIMT levels or plaques have actually subsided. So there, and you mentioned about

Speaker 3  52:53
reversing plaque. It is reversing calcium deposition, right, right? This is a remarkable product. It's, I haven't had anyone not be able to tolerate it. When I have a patient that's had a cabbage or stents, or, you know, significant cardiovascular disease, I put them on two capsules bid and keep them there for, you know, three to six months, depending on their resources, and then drop them down to one bid. And I would expect to be using it for life, until I do a CCT corner or a cardiac CT and geography with AI analysis and see you know whether those risky plaques have gone away, right? But I also use plasmalogens more frequently now, most of these patients are deficient in their plot and their fatty acids. They have lipid dysregulation. They've been beat to death with statins having I'm seeing common numbers down below 150 I have patients below 100 it's it's absolutely crazy. All of the data that's been published show that the ideal total cholesterol should be between 220 and 240 anything going down below 220 actually has a greater increase in all cause mortality, then going higher, which has a less steep curve for all cause mortality. So, you know, I, I, I run a pro job scan on them. I work on their microbiome. I, you know, it's just take their food sensitivities. Use a KBM, a kbmo test, which is a finger stick test that they can do at home, has a gut barrier panel. You're looking at both innate in humoral IgG and C 3d, sensitivities and I GA, or Yeah, IgA, one and two. And so you can identify LPs and their gut barrier panel, whether there's a Zonulin or occluded, including antibodies, and you can help them change their lifestyle based on how their immune system is reacting, right? The whole goal is to lower inflammation and improve their health span, right?

Speaker 4  56:02
Well, one of the drawbacks of this, as you said, was the cost. So as you will see when you find out how much this is and it's worth it, I'm telling you, but I see a lot of patients fall off the the the grid, just because as you go further, it gets costly. But the thing is, there are some imitators out there about making this same claim about their seaweeds, but this is the only one that actually has gone through studies, so one

Speaker 3  56:30
that's done all the studies right. They're in in research. They have used 99 plus percent pure remnant sulfate. So in many of the 1300 studies or more now that have been published on Rs, they're using a pure extract from the tidium from the the the green seaweed, the one cell seaweed that is found mainly in Asia. I mean, it's one of a high consumption seaweed that's, that's in Korea, Japan, China, you know it's, it's part of their diet, right, right, but the the the patented or the trademarked formula that's used in the product that we're talking about, it is included with other phytonutrients and herbs to improve the overall benefit, and that is what has been studied in many of the human studies.

Speaker 4  57:52
So she is asking, what CIMT? So it's carroted into a medial thickness, correct? So that's, it's an ultrasound on your neck. They're gonna it's almost like a carotid ultrasound in kbmo test. We got to put the bleep machine on. You can't give in. Oh, sorry, but they're asking, I don't know if we can answer that. So

Bill Clearfield  58:15
you can do it generically. So, I mean, what

Unknown Speaker  58:18
is it? No, that's a brand.

Speaker 3  58:21
I know it's a brand, but, but what you know, I mean, again, there's, there's two brands of soap, you know, there's two good companies that provide sound IgG food sensitivity testing. One only does IgG and one does IgG, one through four, IgA, one and two, and they balance the IgG with the complement system, so it actually reduces the false positives that could plague standard IgG food sensitivity testing. So that's the C 3d, component. There's only one company because they, I believe, the patent that process to test Zonulin antibodies, which hang around for about seven days, versus Zonulin, which can go up and down all day long. And whenever you take a blood sample, it's that spot in time that you're looking at instead of what's happened over the last week.

Bill Clearfield  59:48
Okay, what about compared to so, so couple of standard lab tests, LP, PLA and Myeloperoxidase.

Speaker 3  59:58
Those are, I, I mean, you can those are fine. Those are, those are part of what a lot of people monitor their cardiovascular patients with.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:14
Is it any correlation with the with the, you know what you're talking about, with the glycocalyx, or not,

Speaker 3  1:00:22
there is, let me, I don't know why my screen is like it is one second.

Speaker 4  1:00:34
So, yeah, I think what you're mentioning doctor bill is in the cardiac X or the cardiac IQ of quest. So that's definitely something that has been suggested to be test done with a full cardiac panel, along with your NMR, lipo profile, so the particle sizing, and also ADMA, SDMA. So those are part of the assessment of your for example, nitric oxide levels, right? Anthroprinogen, homocysteine levels,

Bill Clearfield  1:01:07
my understanding is LP PLA is signifies atherosclerotic plaque. Plaque, yeah, that's about to rupture. Myeloperoscodase. When it's positive, when it's high, suggests plaque

Speaker 4  1:01:24
rupture, right? Because that's actually excreted by your white cells or the neutrophils. They're about to release that plaque and it's attacking it through the immunologic, I guess, attack that they're doing. So yes, that's great. There. There you go.

Speaker 3  1:01:38
So this is in the six case study, part of the markers that they were measuring.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:47
But there's my two right here, and then these two down here, right there's the two I just mentioned.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:55
Yes, absolutely. It's just a

Speaker 4  1:02:00
little pricey when you do these things, but it's definitely worth it, especially if you have a cardiac patient. So the obvious strokes, heart attacks, I would definitely do this without hesitation, and think even some of these are covered by insurance.

Speaker 3  1:02:13
Well, yeah, they they are. And when I'm working with patients, I I'm fortunate to have 85% of my patient base affluent, so I I'm, you know, I'll take on a family referral or a friend referral that doesn't have any money and help them out as best as I can. But because of the the clientele that I have, I I'm able to run all kinds of testing on these people and and so it's they're able to do, you know, the premium programs of taking supplements that optimize, you know, everything I'm I'm using, you know, snip testing. Now there's a platform out there. Are we still recording? So I can't say the

Bill Clearfield  1:03:23
platform we're still recording. You want me to unrequist, unrecord?

Speaker 3  1:03:27
Yeah, why don't we do that? Thank you so much, Doctor.

Bill Clearfield  1:03:31
That's fascinating, as always.

Speaker 3  1:03:33
All right, go from Intel equity, yeah, Intel x DNA is, oh, that's

Speaker 4  1:03:42
sponsor right there. Well, I'm telling

Bill Clearfield  1:03:45
they will be at our conference this.

Speaker 3  1:03:50
This is a game changer, if you are really wanting to impact, you know, challenging cases. I'm doing the testing on babies. I want the the parents to know the risks those kids have right from the start. And the beauty of what Dr Sharon has created is you don't have to know all the data, because of their closed system and AI support, they have identified, out of the 4500 snips that we know, there's only they're only working with about 20% of them, I think, and looking at things that are at least 20% or less, that have solid evidence base to to to do something about they can explain it in great detail, if You want to look at it and they give lifestyle supplement, pharmaceutical interventions that are all evidence based. It takes a while to get the handle on their software, but it is. It's amazing. I've I've got some really complex ASD kids that no testing has been done. They're 12 years old and no DNA testing has been done. And one of these kids just, is just full of hetero and homozygous SNPs that are, you know, down in the point nine to 2.5%

Unknown Speaker  1:05:47
of the population. I mean, this girl's screwed. And for instance, you know

Bill Clearfield  1:05:54
she's What do you do with that kind of information?

Speaker 3  1:05:58
What you do is you look at the things that you can help circumvent some of the challenges. They've got an on off switch for inflammation, TNF alpha, and once it's turned on environmentally, they don't have a way to turn it off. So NF, kappa, beta, and that whole inflammatory cascade just inflames this kid. And if you're not doing something to facilitate that physiology, to lower that inflammation, then they're going to continue to get worse and worse this particular child that I'm thinking about is set up for addiction. She's got all the bad snips, so at 12 years old, she still hasn't been exposed to an opiate. So the parents now have the ability to understand she's at risk for any of these exposures, and they can make a rational decision, is this really worth the risk? Do I start educating my child now that you know, for you genetically. You don't want to be partying with your friends when you get older because you've got this genetic risk. I don't know, but there I again. I'm really getting into this stuff, and I've only got a few patients that I dove in deep, and I'm still learning,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:43
but you really get into some moral and ethical dilemmas there with with that kind of information too, right? You know, just because you can do it, should you do it?

Unknown Speaker  1:07:55
The well, they ask,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:59
okay, well, that's a different you know, I guess that's a different story.

Speaker 6  1:08:04
So may I add something Sure, there's a woman named Sterling Hill. She's at MTHFR support.org she's dying for patients. She was one of my mentors in genes. She can look at 1500 genes, and she comes up with whatever the snips are that you can do something about. She has a plethora of knowledge, and she's dying for patients right now, MTHFR support.org, Sterling Hill, and she has, you take your DNA from ancestry.com you know, the the raw data, and you run it through her gene testing. And then she, you got all those snips. And then you have, you need someone to interpret all those steps, and then she can do that, and she does it at a very reasonable price. She's not a physician, and her rates are very good, and she's starving to death. Anyway, I just wanted to let you guys know, thank you for listening.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:21
Do you mind putting her information in the chat?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:24
Sterling Hill, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:27
thank you. Sounds like we need her for December 23 Yes. Next opening, where the 30th? Yeah.

Speaker 3  1:09:40
The testing I can share it with you guys if you want to see

Bill Clearfield  1:09:44
it. Yeah, we're off. You can do anything. You can say,

Speaker 4  1:09:52
just for our practitioners to know, I think you're a practitioner pricing, right?

Speaker 3  1:09:55
This is practitioner pricing, so let me share the screen. So these reports here come as combinations, or, Oh, here we go. They have them as combinations. So this executive is the medical overview and cognitive and memory. If you go down, you can see what the medical overview includes, what they look at, the fundamentals. And then you know, if you had a kid with ASD and pandas, you would want to do the mental wellness and the ASD panda report down here on the bottom. And this is a report that I've done on two kids. And let me tell you, it is, it is amazing, the information that you are able to work with in the reports that in the and the depth of dive that you have at your fingertips, which makes a non you know expert able to do something clinically relevant and keep and take care of that patient easily. That's why I find this so valuable. And I've been playing around in this space with Dr Stewart and GX sciences since, I think 2016 or 17.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:37
Yeah, I've used, I use that one. I've used that for, I use that for hair restoration. Is the GX sciences, genetic

Speaker 3  1:11:46
talents. Background, they bought them and the supplement company, I think, disbanded, that was out there in Texas, but just shows you.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:03
So the by the way, November 18, we're going to have Doctor Houseman Cohen on again. We've had a run once just a couple weeks ago. So she's coming back. Is she?

Speaker 3  1:12:15
Does she work with Doctor Sharon that founded the company that's her, Oh, that is Dr Sharon.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:25
Sharon, she's, uh, yeah, she'll be on November 18, so don't miss it. Yeah, that's awesome.

Speaker 5  1:12:33
Hence, can I ask about the glycocalyx approach? Sure, I got a couple questions. I mean, the first one, if there's anyone for whom you would not recommend, you know any cautions or contraindications with that treatment,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:47
not to my knowledge. So

Speaker 4  1:12:49
the the one that I got from the company actually is more of sensitivity to seaweed, so they're saying iodine, but really, it's really just a disclaimer for them, just to be on the safer side of things. And the other one is if you actually get an allergic response when you get it by just by itself, right? And the common side effect of this is gi, gi irritation. But other than that, really, there's no, no contradictions. It's like a free for all. You can do it with anything.

Speaker 5  1:13:20
Yes. Would, would you expect to see a change on the less expensive and more common CT calcium score?

Speaker 3  1:13:30
You would, it takes years, but you will see a change. I mean, Mark Houston is saying that he's gotten people down to zero.

Speaker 5  1:13:43
Okay, that's interesting. And so without the glyco check test, I mean, you know, just based on history and maybe blood markers, you know. And of course, cost is an issue, but it's like, who shouldn't be on this one? Anyone with a family history of cardiovascular disease, anyone with any, you know,

Speaker 3  1:14:03
significant score, even anyone that is just doing bad lifestyle stuff, but wants to help balance it, you know, so interesting. I want the drinks a lot. You drink a glass of wine, you're gonna damage your glycocalyx, right?

Speaker 5  1:14:23
And it's so interesting Ken, because so my older brother, who is not a very healthy eater, he's, you know, has some weight problems, and, you know, not very healthy lifestyle, you know, he, he takes this stuff, you know. And I'm thinking like, why are you spending so much money on this supplement when you should be devoting this, you know, you're kind of energetic resources to a healthier lifestyle, like, go to the gym, don't buy arterial cell. But now you're kind of making his point, you know, like

Speaker 3  1:14:51
I'm telling you that I give it to people and they don't want to change their lifestyle until they start seeing some, you know, benefit, and it may take me a while, because they're family friends, and so I can't just Go screw yourself. I I help them and and they've many of them stop drinking. Many of it's remarkable what people will do once they recognize how bad they they felt because of their lifestyle.

Speaker 1  1:15:30
We actually had people that were short of breath after covid, loss of taste and smell that came back after being on the product. If you think about it too, when people are taking all these supplements, it's kind of pointless until they have their their you know, obviously, if your roots aren't working, what's the point? So get the roots working first. Thank you so much for this lecture, by the way.

Speaker 5  1:15:49
Thanks. Yeah. Thank you. And then another question, would you ever start someone on just the arterial still without the vasquenax product, or do you always use them together?

Speaker 3  1:15:58
I actually don't use the vasinox product. I use approved medical solutions, nitric oxide. It's less money and it I mean, I had patients, cardiovascular patients, that add ed on vasinox. I switched them to a lesser expensive product, which is a potassium nitrate arugula source, so there's no oxalate associated with it, and they were telling me that they were getting an erection again. So I don't use that calorie product anymore. I use approved medical solutions AMS, so it saves the patient money. And I haven't had a problem with anyone on it. I think, don't you use it?

Bill Clearfield  1:16:55
Bill, yeah, of course, yeah, we'll use them together.

Speaker 5  1:16:59
What you know, what I read about the vasnax product is it's supposed to have a longer duration of action, right? But maybe, well, I'm in the pudding, your patients noticing,

Speaker 3  1:17:12
if someone's been taking it a month and they missed two days, they'll still test above threshold.

Speaker 4  1:17:19
So the one that maybe, if you just want to, if you want a justification for vascin ox is because, again, there are studies done by Dr Houston in relation to literature. So you actually have an objective parameter to see how vasconox works, well, even with arterial cells. So he even has a protocol now for calcium scores combining both. But again, as Kent mentioned, as a patient, verbalizes benefit. That's what you need. I mean, numbers are

Speaker 3  1:17:51
not, yeah, that was anecdotal, and it was on a couple of like guys and so everyone likes to save money and and I'm testing the patients. I have them routinely test themselves, and the stuff lasts.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:10
So I'm a little bit old school. And, you know, I was, I was actually taught by the Steven Sinatra with his, you know,

Speaker 3  1:18:17
oh, I remember, right? Is that stuff before from Sinatra?

Bill Clearfield  1:18:23
Yeah, is that? Is that? Is that old hat?

Speaker 3  1:18:26
Now, I don't recommend that approach. Okay, so, just so giving l arginine can be problematic, and some in and people with certain snip I thought

Bill Clearfield  1:18:41
wasn't l arginine, it was

Unknown Speaker  1:18:44
magnesium oil, I think cocaine. It

Bill Clearfield  1:18:46
was magnesium glycinate, D, ribose, acetyl L, carnitine.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:52
Oh, yeah, that one, yeah, I haven't used it in a long time. Okay, low dose vitamin E.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:03
Also, are you using? Was part of the protocol?

Bill Clearfield  1:19:08
That was Steven Sinatra's protocol. Yes, since we're off, I can tell you this research, research, national, international, the yellow the ones with the yellow label,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:22
they have a nutritional research, nutritional

Bill Clearfield  1:19:24
nutrition. They have a they have a powder that has all three of just doesn't have the coins and Q 10 in it. So, yeah, kind of makes it easy. So, but you don't know about any kind of comparisons, or

Speaker 3  1:19:36
I don't have any, I've been, haven't used that in ages.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:39
Can add that into the

Unknown Speaker  1:19:43
it's it's already challenging with this.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:46
So how much? So? How much is it the nitric oxide and arterial cell? How much would that

Speaker 3  1:19:51
be? Okay, here's a cost savings piece of info, if you buy direct from calroy, in a case, quantity of arterial cell, then you pay $49 a bottle instead of $59 a bottle

Unknown Speaker  1:20:15
as a practitioner, right?

Speaker 3  1:20:17
As a practitioner? Yeah, the wholesale pricing, right? Nitric oxide. And there, I haven't bought their nitric oxide, but they do the same.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:27
I don't have I use the same one you do, but I don't remember what the price is off the top of my head.

Speaker 3  1:20:32
So, well, AMS is down in the 24 range, and 1000 ox is what in the high 20s or low 30s?

Bill Clearfield  1:20:42
Yeah, so retail would be about 152

Speaker 3  1:20:47
I well, I sell the arterial cell between $70 for my poor patients and $85 for my wealthy patients. And the nitric oxide, everyone pays 40 bucks.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:03
Okay, so, so what was it on I 85

Speaker 3  1:21:06
either 110 or 8125 okay, a month, which isn't bad, no, not, not with the bang for the buck that you're getting. I mean, it's amazing.

Speaker 4  1:21:20
An interesting fact from Cowboy, because I the Asher was trying to sell this product to me, and I told him that we have a huge IV practice. So what he said that? So, you know, these patients who are hard pokes, You're damaging their glycocalyx over and over again as you insert those needles in there. So what they're saying you You better get this product and you give this to these people to repair their glycocalyx again, because you will produce an inflammatory response if that doesn't heal fast and and that's why that's another weird it's not your usual use that you just

Speaker 3  1:21:54
mentioned, but no, but it's Yeah, yeah. Anything that's going to mess that thing up is going to put a person at risk, especially if they're already challenged with autoimmune or some other chronic, couple chronic conditions that you're trying to address. But I once I put people on it, they stay on it. It's I haven't seen anyone drop off.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:26
So have you, have you or anybody done any, you know, testing or experimenting for some of the other things that we do with looking at the glycocalyx, you know, what's the effect of testosterone on it? What's the effect of progesterone on it? What's the effect of growth hormone.

Speaker 4  1:22:42
Dr Bill, we have an opening on December. I think you're going to be a good candidate to speak about that. Well, the books,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:55
I don't know nothing about birth.

Unknown Speaker  1:23:00
What would be the effect of ozone and IV vitamin C?

Bill Clearfield  1:23:06
Well, you're telling, if you're doing it, doing IV ozone, and you're telling us the glycocalyx is damaged from putting the IV in exactly, you

Speaker 3  1:23:14
know, it's I the debt. The glycocalyx gets damaged sometimes hourly, with lifestyle impact. And so what you're trying to do is build up a resilience so that the repair happens quick. It's It's remarkable how quick the glycocalyx can be, not only damaged, but then come back, you know, to full function. It's, it's remarkable. So that's

Bill Clearfield  1:23:59
okay, all right. I mean, I have nothing to add to that. So,

Speaker 4  1:24:06
well, the one thing that I can add is, I think I introduced this to our one of our tips of the week, there's a prescription version for the glycocalyx. It's cell odexide, yeah. So it's not available in the US. It's only in Europe, Asia or Latin America. So that's why other countries are utilizing this, but we're not,

Speaker 3  1:24:27
unfortunately, I and I don't know, I saw that slide, but there wasn't enough data behind it, so I didn't include it. But there is, I don't know why the FDA is preventing its access here.

Speaker 4  1:24:45
They're trying to figure out how much money they're going to make first before they get in there.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:51
Maybe such a shame,

Speaker 4  1:24:55
but other countries are doing this, so they already have grasped the importance of the glycocalyx.

Speaker 3  1:25:01
Yep. I mean, they're using it for deep vein and Arterial thrombosis.

Speaker 4  1:25:06
So, yep, we'll get there later. What?

Bill Clearfield  1:25:12
What about, you know, doctor, klatz is favorite. The cyclodextrin is any comparison with that, or any

Unknown Speaker  1:25:18
I don't have any experience with it, Doc,

Speaker 4  1:25:26
can we buy from them? They're asking, yeah, I think you can Petronella. You can open an account with calroy. Oh, no, no, silly Dexter. Is a prescription.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:35
So try India, try India mart.com, you can get anything. I got 1015 milligram ivermectin for 155 bucks. They said it was ivermectin. I don't know. The pills came and they were just white. I don't think there was anything to tell you the truth.

Speaker 7  1:25:59
I heard, I heard about the cardiologist in Minnesota. She was with us in a different group, and she was, she was saying that I want to do the glyco glyco check. She said that in the future, she wants to do her business to be glyco check.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:17
Yeah, so glyco check, because it comes from where Dr Collins

Speaker 1  1:26:22
with Dr Han, I have his contact. I'm actually this week, I'm going to be in Palm Beach with him. They asked me to work at their booth with them, because I believe in it so much. I honestly feel like it saved my life. You guys, not the device, but the product. I couldn't breathe after covid, and it was incredible, just the difference of transition, of how I felt I got off, long story short, I put my text in the chat, and I can, if that helps, sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:07
Okay. Did you get you all? Get the for the CME credits, if you want them for tonight. Did you get the link? I'll find it again. Yeah, it showed up on the channel. Okay, all right, find it again for you, or put put it in again. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions?

Speaker 3  1:27:37
I'm sending you the email, by the way. Dr Bill, okay with that document?

Bill Clearfield  1:27:43
Terrific. Okay, so here's for the CME credits again. Can we? Well, it's 617 I mean, I think that's pretty good. I don't know if anybody my vitamin C lecture is probably at least 45 minutes. I don't know if anybody wants to stay. If you want that, you know, I mean, I'm good. If you want, want me to go, go through it. If not, we can, you know, call it a night. Video tape will be available. Yes, usually takes me 24 hours to sort of get it ready, and it'll be up on YouTube and all also on our aosrd.org that works, okay, so you can go there most. Most of the webinars are recorded that we record, are there? The ones that are missing are either banned, banned, right? Mostly banned everyone video kind of, kind of, kind of messes up. And, you know, only give us 15 or 20 minutes, and I need more time than that to justify the two, two ama credit hours. So, so if there's a couple missing, that's what it is. If it's mostly a product, you know, that's a brand product and whatnot, then we can't, we can't really get the AMA credits for that. But as long as it wasn't banned the, you know, you know, keywords, or covid, ivermectin, stuff like that. Those all get banned. Cannabis that seems to, seems to not, not be allowed anymore, at least on YouTube, for some reason. I don't know why, but because we had, we had them on for a long time. We had a couple of Dustin's on for a really long time. And then we got, I got the, you know, I got the fickle Finger of Fate from the YouTube 22 year olds who run that, run the show there. So, so I try, try to just put them on our website instead of doing YouTube for those. But most of them are there. The the email you get every week, there's the links for the videos, and with the CME credits, also, they're good for for a year. So I take them off as because we've been doing the CME credits for more than a year. So so they're good for a year. So we're October 25 or whatever. Today is the 21st so October 22 from last year to now, they're still good. So I mean, I mean, it's $50 for two credits. It's a little pricey for two credits, if we were doing 20 credits. But if you need the credits, they're there. It's easy to do. You just watch the video. Do the do the credit thing. They don't print you out certificate right, right then and there. So, and they are valid, so they are good. So just, just again, to reiterate, the conference is November rather December, December 4, December 4 to December 6, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The reason it's that day instead of Sunday is the I guess there's an event, you know, it's Christmas time and there's an event in Reno. And I couldn't find one place that had a Sunday for us that was acceptable. So So Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Dr Nario has been incredibly helpful. And our IT people have been fabulous, too. I used to have to do all this work myself, and I pretty much are just giving orders now and delegating. So this, it's been compared to the other ones that we've had, other live shows that we've had. This has been a real breeze. And, you know, we have a real good lineup of speakers again. And you know people that you know, you'll travel to conferences to, you know, to see and besides our own, you know, Dr Tano and Dr Dimitri. If you don't know Peter Dimitri, he'll be doing heavy metal detoxification. Dr Shallenberger, you know, the the the ozone guy of ozone got Dr halasa, who's a father figure in his own right. Homeopathy day, if you don't know anything about homeopathy, we're going to get get a really good overview. And it's if you're not interested in it, that's fine, but it's really something that you learn something about it and keep it in your back pocket, because I use, I mean, I don't consider myself a homeopathic physician, even though I have a degree, but I use about 30 or 40 remedies, and there was very helpful as an adjunct, we're going to hear about telomeres from Dr Bill Andrews, Dr Felice Gersh is going to be speaking about brain issues and hormones. Chris Kelly, we've had her on here, and she was my landlord when I first moved to Reno, my first office. She's now the raid on Czarina of the University of Nevada, Reno. So she'll hit you over the head with that. We have integrative dentist, we have an integrative psychiatrist and an integrative veterinarian. So a broad spectrum of things. And I do not have, if you remember the live conferences that we've had before, I did not get Monica Jane, who's the the relationship guru. We'll just call her that. So if we have time, we will try to do a couple of round tables with, with, you know, a few of our speakers, if we have, you know, if we have, you know, if there's, if there's some time left over at the end of the day, or before or after lunch, there's anything that you want, please let me know. I'm hoping, if we're, if we do well, I'm hoping that, you know, we'll, we'll make it. We'll make at least one, one or maybe two conferences a year for our group. And you know, it doesn't have to be in Reno. It's easier for me to be me and Dr Neri to be in Reno, traditionally, our pre our predecessor, the American Osteopathic Society of rheumatic diseases, always met in Reno for over 50 years. The impetus for that was that they all the guys from the East Coast went skiing. So, so that's actually how it all started. It was the family practice of sort of division of rheumatic diseases when it was started in 1972 and it went all the way to 2022 when I decided to try to expand our reach and bring in integrative medicine and the AOA cut our head off, so and so, such is life. So we continued. We've been doing these Wednesday or Tuesday night conferences for five years now. October 10, I think 2020, was our first one. It was during covid. And so we've been doing it for over five years now. Most of the content is on the on the website. And if I find someone that can sort of collate it for me, maybe we'll, we'll get some summaries and turn it into, you know, little PDFs and booklets and stuff too, also. So anybody wants to volunteer, let me know. Doctor Nari, you got anything?

Speaker 4  1:35:36
No, just looking forward to this. Oh, we're we have an ongoing a 4m class, biotin hormone for women. And I'm going to be teaching on December and last in Vegas, so module five. If somebody's taking the fellowship, sign up and I'll see you there.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:55
Okay, anybody else appearing anywhere?

Speaker 1  1:36:01
I'll be in what's it called aims this weekend in Palm Beach.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:07
You're this weekend in Palm Beach, yes, or

Speaker 1  1:36:11
Friday through Monday. If anybody wants to hop off, you know, to go and just text me or call me.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:16
I'm going to be in Clearwater Florida this weekend, and I'm going to be doing like I said, vitamin C's effects on hormones, and this is a vitamin C conference. So if you and everything you want to know about vitamin C and what we're afraid to ask too much about vitamin C. And I also be November 12, the 16th. I'll be in Salt Lake City for the age management Medical Group, and I'm going to be doing, you guys already heard this. I'm going to be doing a laboratory of functional medicine, and I'm going to be doing part one. So you've already heard you've heard it, you if you've been heard, heard it. So we're going to be doing part one, which will be serum testing the microbiome, SIBO mucosal barrier. And well wellness, metabolic wellness profile. So that's part one. Part two will be urine testing for hormones and saliva testing for hormones. And not just general, but we're going to get into its, you know, into specifics for each and I forget what else is on there. So, but that's part one. That's November 12 to November 12 to I'm going to, I want to put it in the chat. November 12 to 16 Salt Lake City, ammg, and it's age mid.org anybody else wants to put their Okay? Dr Collins, you got your Boston bio life? Okay? And the vitamin C conferences in Clearwater Florida. I don't, I don't remember off the top of my head what their website is. But if you send me an email,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:13
I'll think

Bill Clearfield  1:38:14
it's, it's, I don't know it's, yeah, it's something like that. It's nice scenario. Take over. I'll find it. Go ahead.

Speaker 4  1:38:21
Okay, yeah, so I guess we definitely just want to extend our even though we're all promoting our speaking engagements. The the Reno event is something that we would like to promote to you guys. So we would like to see you in person. Hopefully you can make it so we can connect and also talk in real life. And then, of course, we have digital if you can't make it, and for our licensees, for the homeopathic board, we will actually be, yeah, this is actually going to be one of our events so that we can renew our licenses here. So that's why that's a special shout out for for our crew, and we're going to make sure we're going to be running after you in terms of invites. So we're going to get some emails from us, and hopefully some, some

Bill Clearfield  1:39:08
we're going to annoy you endlessly till you say, All right, I'm going to show up. Yeah, at least be online.

Speaker 4  1:39:16
Jody, we'll see you if you can come in.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:19
I hope so.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:20
Fun. BCI, ci.org, is there's the vitamin C conference. Okay, so there it is.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:32
Thank you all for everything.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:34
Thank you, yes, yes. And we're going to send, what we're going to do is send Dr Nario out to break your legs if you don't show up, Joey, you still on Joel's? Sir, is Joel still on? You know, he's my enforcer, so I sure am. Okay. All right. You know, you see this. They call him the beard of knowledge. If you don't know, those of you don't know,

Speaker 8  1:40:00
got a question for you, yeah, when is the latest towards signing up for the conference?

Bill Clearfield  1:40:08
We have an early bird going up, up until November 15, and then after that, the conference starts December 4 at 8am December 4 at 7:59am, 759, a

Speaker 8  1:40:23
Yeah, I get it. I just, I hope that airlines get sorted out. Oh, yeah, okay, well, there's, I'm coming from Ohio, and yeah, I know, you know,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:35
yeah, okay, so I'm going to Florida on Thursday, so I'm going to have an issue. I don't have a TV and I don't, I don't watch the news, so I don't really know what's

Unknown Speaker  1:40:41
going on. Yeah, alright. Well, just curious,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:45
yeah, yeah. Love to see you, Adam, yeah. Alright.

Speaker 8  1:40:49
Well, I hope to make it okay. The biggest problem is the world's largest radiology Society meeting is in Chicago, starting maybe that Sunday after Thanksgiving, and it goes the whole week. So probably, uh, 30 or 40% all the radiologists in North America will be

Bill Clearfield  1:41:09
there. You're gonna have more fun here than you're going to be well, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:41:13
I got to work it out to be able to leave, because the call schedule and all that kind of thing. I mean, it's huge. Couple 100,000 people there.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:23
It's some we're going to get there someday, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:41:28
Well, they don't have the band that we have, so that's right.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:33
And then I don't know, should I? Should I? Should I look into the murder mystery dinner like we used we did before. Is that something? Those of you that were there, you know, we know how much fun we had, and everybody has to interact with each other, if you if you get into it and start doing the the, you know, looking at the clues. So the second one, I was the murderer, by the way, that's had to figure it out. I was actually in the show. So those of you remember

Unknown Speaker  1:41:59
who were there, see

Speaker 4  1:42:01
a lot of activities in store for everyone.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:04
Yeah, at the very least you're right across the street from the Reno town hall where they got the food from all over the world. It's right across the street. So I don't know if that's an incentive, and those of you like go Skiing. Skiing is 45 minutes away in Lake Tahoe, December. We should have snow by then. So, so yeah, and if you haven't been to Reno, you know, it's not a bad place. It's better than Wilkes Barre, PA, I'll give you that. So, okay, everybody, thank you so much. I'll get the videos up, and as quickly as I can Kent, I'll get you the participant list if you want to reach out to them. And thank you so much for being with us. Thank you for your time and effort. Next week, we have Chris Miletus, you know, the naturopath. We've had him on a couple of times, and he does a lot of homeopathic stuff, I think. So I don't have a topic yet for him. So, but we'll, we'll have him one. He's a good one, and he's a good one. And Doctor Collins, I got you tentatively for November 4, so just think she's gone, and this time we're not going to miss you. So, okay. Oh, somebody asked the source for the ivermectin India mart.com,

Unknown Speaker  1:43:20
oh, they should pay you for that.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:24
Be forewarned that when you India, sorry, that's spelled wrong

Speaker 4  1:43:30
India mark, you get a lot of sugar pills there, right? Well, I don't know. I

Bill Clearfield  1:43:34
can't, I can't vouch for the purity and what's in it, but you'll get a good price,

Speaker 4  1:43:41
and you're gonna get non stop texting too your phone.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:47
You'll get an inquiry. What is it you're interested in? If you put like ivermectin in within the next within an hour, you'll you'll be you'll have five or six vendors texting you, emailing you, within 24 hours. It's a non stop onslaught, and it doesn't stop for at least four to six weeks. So just before warrant,

Unknown Speaker  1:44:12
okay, you're making them,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:13
but each one tries awful, tries to top the one before. So yeah, so, so, be forewarned. You can get them for from college pharmacy, you know, you know, legitimate source. That's where I get my real you know that what I know it was real from, I mean, I got it the India March stuff with during covid. Because when you know when it was, you know, illegal to even mention it by name.

Speaker 3  1:44:42
So what does college charge for a dose of, um, you've got someone on 60 milligrams?

Bill Clearfield  1:44:49
Well, I don't know about six I got, I got 15 milligram pills. I got 270 of them for $360 so maybe, like $1.10 or dollar 20 a piece. Okay,

Speaker 7  1:45:06
I'm by, I bought mine from second smarter in the class.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:12
That was the background one, don't worry about from.

Speaker 7  1:45:15
I bought a lot of vendors all and from second smarter in the world. He has a sub stack from, I think he's Canadian, also with Dr Marcus. They are also selling at the end of the sub stack, we can order from there.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:29
Can you type in the chat the name? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:39
All right, so this Yeah, this is early for us.

Speaker 4  1:45:44
We better get some kickbacks from these pharmacies that we're promoting. It's a free advertising for them.

Speaker 3  1:45:58
Yeah, we should ask for support for our 503, C,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:03
we should and second smartest in the world Sub stack.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:13
Who's the first smartest

Bill Clearfield  1:46:16
you guys?

Unknown Speaker  1:46:21
So do but

Unknown Speaker  1:46:23
my pain, but my thing that it's

Bill Clearfield  1:46:36
second smartest guy in the world.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:38
Oh yeah, second smarter guy. But, does so he he calls them a pet at the

Speaker 7  1:46:49
in the front of the world, it's Pat Martin patazol. That is for benda's All,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:58
listen, sub stack,

Speaker 7  1:47:00
okay, and he sells them with 12 milligram tablet. And it was good, like, I mean, because I think there are 100 tablets in a box, and this 12 milligram tablet, and it's about $60 and he also, many times he has discounts

Speaker 3  1:47:18
12 milligram tablet for $50 for 100

Speaker 7  1:47:23
Yeah, something like that, yeah, I know that I bought. I have a lot of them, because I bought for everyone in my family. They have in case, I read on, I read on Twitter, and three years ago, that they pop they posted there that for the covid to take it from acting and at emission, the sweet, warm mood. And today, Dr Peter McConnell published in focal point about how important are the results of the spike protein titer lab core, they do it. He has publication and sub called focal point. It's rated like tap sub stack.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:21
We can order that now in lab for you today.

Speaker 7  1:48:24
Yeah, I saw it today. Just forwarded to because I forward to my children so I can spread the word about it, so they know how they can what else they can do about it. So it is Dr William Marcus. He also has sub stack where, every day he published treatments, like today, it was irremedi and Mendez old testimonial, 51 years old. The Toronto man with glioblastoma reports after six months. Has two more shrink. He treats all the cancer, any stage with the silver meccandazole or Albendazole. And focal point today was Dr Peter, also Gordon medical had a conference, a very good conference, about

Unknown Speaker  1:49:23
the peptides. Oh, yeah, I heard of Boyden,

Speaker 7  1:49:26
and I have to look, because I have I get a lot of mail I get, I have to look to see what is, or I can forward later.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:40
Yeah, thank you for the information.

Speaker 7  1:49:43
Okay, just so I do not know if you know that. It's a conference which is called Health Alliance, and they are number one in healthcare business, and they had over the weekend, they have a conference, and it was $67 virtual to attend, yeah, and what happened? Doing better than us? Yeah, they are very good to market and everything. So there was somebody in the break that was was talking, and he said that he did weight loss, and he made $8 million with weight loss medication. I think only this peptides were weight loss, but the most important it's, how do you do that? To know how to do the business so and then he said, I did hormones, but I did only seven to 8% of that income that he was able to make with weight loss, but was still significant. I mean, because, yeah, so they have funerals, they have. And Robert Rowe, Robert, Robert, love, I think it's his name that he's a neuroscientist. He's always on tick tock. He says, I'm Robert, Robert, and I'm a neuroscientist. And he, he got, like so many like subscribers, and one, he posted one video, and he shared how he makes the video and how he gets people and he gets views like five, 1.5 millions on one clip. And but so it was three days, and I had speakers, one after one speaker after one speaker after one speaker. I know Dr ace was there, and he was talking about ASEA water. I know some people, they don't think it's too much of it, but he has very good results. And he shows there in his clinic, people that cannot walk. He makes them help them walk, because he said that it speeds the reaction of the enzymes and also prevents misfolding of the proteins which causes disease. And they were talking about the hallmarks of aging, and they went over all hallmarks of aging, and they said that they have a program in longevity, and this program, it's they, they have information from the leaders, like from the one that Are front runners in longevity. But pretty much, I think they have the same thing that we all know. I mean, telomere elongation, mitochondrial dysfunction, but hallmarks of aging are beside this two, three that I said, maybe another seven, misfolding of proteins and senescence and, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:04
you're attending a lot of conferences. Petronella,

Speaker 7  1:53:07
so I saw a forum they posted also they have folk song they got it's very important with the fox. So because it prevents the senescence with the senescence of the Suns Fox before, yeah, I mean, I try. I mean, if I have a conference, I cannot not do because I feel like, Oh, I'm missing out. I mean, you know, you have to know,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:32
don't miss out on December.

Speaker 7  1:53:35
I really wanted to go to Switzerland. There it's a conference now, next week in Switzerland

Bill Clearfield  1:53:41
and Switzerland, instead of come to Reno, what's the matter with I'm

Speaker 7  1:53:44
coming to Reno, but I have to, I was looking now to buy the ticket, like on the

Bill Clearfield  1:53:50
Doctor Quinn would do that.

Speaker 7  1:53:53
In Switzerland, they have a big conference, and Doctor Horwath with the anti aging clock, he's coming there and who is coming there. So they have something global, apheresis. So they have something about plasmapheresis. I thought maybe they have some machines, or maybe they have some classes about doing plasmapheresis. Then they have so, so so they have about neurodegeneration. It's a for m. If you look a for M or global longevity Summit, it's a global summit. The 52 countries are coming there.

Speaker 4  1:54:34
Oh yeah, I saw that. Yep, a for M is I want

Speaker 7  1:54:38
us to go so much. But I cannot go. I cannot go because I am not able to go. And I asked, I even wanted some to ask somebody, because to delegate like I wanted

Bill Clearfield  1:54:51
to come to Reno. You can't go to Switzerland. You can come to Reno.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:55
Yeah, but

Bill Clearfield  1:54:59
you know, it's the Switzerland, of Nevada.

Speaker 7  1:55:05
And I want to say Dr, also Dr Christian rapport. He has a conference. I don't know if you know about so Christian rapport, he has a conference there, I think November, in November, somewhere in November. But he has with the stem stem region. STEM region. It's also very good. He says that Dr Christian Dapo says that he uses five herbs, and he releases our own stem cells. And we don't get depleted on the stem cells, because they divide and they get released. And he can release, we can release every day, 10 million additional stem cells. And with intense protocol, we can release 30 millions a day. And with this protocol that he has, and he says that Parkinson's disease, can reverse by 60% with STEM region, intense protocol for six months. Interesting. He talked about this at the conference. When I went with Health Alliance, had two conference in a year, and they have speakers. And, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:56:23
okay, great. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:26
Doctor queen, you got anything? Is he still here? Doctor queen, you got anything for us, for the from the research group?

Speaker 7  1:56:33
But Doctor days from Health Alliance, he's there. He wants to come to speak like about ASEA water, if you, if you,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:45
Dr, Cano, maybe, yeah, I'm here. Okay, what's going on?

Speaker 9  1:56:53
As far as a research group? Well, we spend most of the time talking about how we're going to coordinate what we're doing on Thursday to make sure it kind of flows, also taking off on your suggestion about the apothecary, quite possibly getting into intake type of forms. Dr Tanno has got a phenomenal one that we're looking at adopting for that it's a questionnaire by him, and it's on his website. They also, there was some talk about the fact that Dr Tanner and Dr James, and I don't know all the details, are involved in a Brazil project with indigenous medicine. And they, there's a strong invitation there for them to participate. It's a, I would guess it's an integrative type of thing. But they really want them because they are are doing indigenous type medicine, and that, that's one of the keys, I think, for the practitioners out of Brazil. Dr glavinovich is, I believe it's his sister in law, is an MD there, and is going to be coming up here and doing some practicing, I think, in Dallas, Texas, and possibly in Las Vegas, so that that's, that's kind of about what, what we were doing.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:11
Sounds like she needs to get here in December, come to Reno

Speaker 9  1:58:15
Yeah, oh, yeah, yeah. We talked about that, yeah. I think I know she's coming in November, but maybe December too. We'll find out. All right.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:23
Well, alright, alrighty, those of you that are still on, you getting a hint here,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:30
you're hammering it in there.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:31
We're flogging our own products here. You know, not supposed to do that, but the video has been off for quite a while.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:37
So see, we have a signee, petronel is coming, yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:42
And make sure you it worked. Stay at the hotel, because we're responsible for 30 night, 30 nights of of cost. So, and it's you stay. So make sure you stay at the hotel. Don't go, don't go to the pepper Mills five blocks down and across the street. And it is, it can't be cold in December in Reno so

Speaker 7  1:59:02
I was at pepper mill one time when I took a class with, actually,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:07
on therapy. Well, yeah, so, so the hotels, you know, it's a small one, I mean, it's a Marriott. It is clean. It's not, you know, it's not a, you know, dive, but it's, you know, it's nothing ornate, you know, fancy, but there's no smoke for Doctor Burgess, and you know, you'll be able to park there with without too much trouble, also, if you're driving, and it's a 10 Minute, not even a 10 Minute, Uber ride from the airport, wow, close by. Yeah. Okay, alright, I'm good. How about the rest of you? Thank you so much. Thank you. Dr Crowley, if you're still on or if you've had enough, okay again next week. Dr, Chris melidas, will be with us again, and I'll let you know what the topic is soon as I find out. So okay, good night everybody. Thank you all for being here again. Please call a friend you know, and please, if you're you know, if you want to share or you know the conference information, we can send you a email with links to it and send it to your email. Folks, please let me know, and we'll and we'll get that to you. And we're only six weeks away, so we're, you know, it's starting to get down to

Speaker 4  2:00:28
crunch time. They can post something on social media that we can provide materials for awesome.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:33
We'll do that. Yeah, we're getting there. So, okay, all right. Thank you so much, everybody. We'll talk to you soon. Bye, bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai