Unknown Speaker  00:12
Hi, there. Dr Bill, hey

Bill Clearfield  00:13
there. Alan, what happened?

Unknown Speaker  00:19
There's Dr Clayton. What are we doing to you? Hello, Dr Clayton,

Speaker 1  00:45
you. I think you're muted. Dr Clayton,

Unknown Speaker  00:55
we should not have both sound and vision.

Unknown Speaker  00:59
Yes, sir, good to see you. Good to see you again.

Bill Clearfield  01:04
Likewise, likewise. Thank you for being with us. Dr Clayton,

Unknown Speaker  01:08
William, it's a pleasure. William, where'd you go? By Bill,

Bill Clearfield  01:11
Bill, or hey you, or you know, okay, so where are you?

Speaker 2  01:22
Yeah, where am I coming from? Where are you? People often ask me that today, Melbourne, in Florida?

Bill Clearfield  01:30
Oh, okay, I was gonna say Australia. It's the next day, right? Or the day?

Speaker 2  01:35
Well, no, no, no, I'm down amongst the Gators.

Bill Clearfield  01:38
Okay, so one of our Is that where you live? Yes, yes, it is okay. So one of our good Members is there, you know, Stefan Hartman.

Unknown Speaker  01:52
I don't, I have to admit that.

Bill Clearfield  01:54
I don't. He's one of our superstars. So he's in Melbourne.

Speaker 2  01:58
Oh, well, that'd be interesting. I mean, if he's coming on to this meeting, usually, yeah, so excellent. Well, perhaps we'll have an opportunity to meet.

Bill Clearfield  02:16
So we've been doing this meeting since 2020. We've been here every Tuesday, except for two. The end of 2024, Tuesday, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve were Tuesday and I took off so but we've been doing it every week, and we usually get in end up with anywhere from from another penny. Lately it's been a little bit less 35 to maybe 80. We get pretty regular. So okay, usually we have a few more by now. Though, I'm a little bit worried here, it's five of five so, but I see we filter in and out, you know, all the time. So, Mm, hmm. So usually what we do one of our members is taking Andrew weils integrative medicine fellowship, so he usually gives us a five minute rundown on what they learned that week, so the rest of us don't have to do that. And then, then we we introduce you, okay, okay, it's kind of satisfied, or you can introduce yourself.

Speaker 2  03:41
Look, I'll just go by the house rules, whatever you're comfortable with, yeah, okay.

Speaker 2  03:56
I'm a little surprised you took Christmas day off. I mean,

Bill Clearfield  04:00
it was Christmas Eve, not Christmas Day. The Christmas by Christmas Day, it's, it's like, I'm ready to go, go do something, you know? But it was snowing here Christmas Eve, so

Unknown Speaker  04:18
we don't get much of that.

Bill Clearfield  04:19
Sort of, sort of stayed in, yeah, I know, although I was in Miami, but three weeks ago, it was the coldest week of the year that they've had in 20 years there. He probably was called where you were too.

Speaker 2  04:33
Oh, it was, it's killed off a lot of the vegetation

Bill Clearfield  04:38
falling from the trees.

Speaker 2  04:40
Yes, they were, but a lot of the plants down here are not cult resistant, so there's been, there won't be many mangoes this year,

Bill Clearfield  04:50
alright, Dr Nerio, there you go. You can cash in on the mango crisis. He's in Melbourne, Florida, with the, you know, the friend of ours, right? You know, you know who lives there, right? Melbourne, Florida, yeah, Marlene, no. Marlene is near Tampa.

Speaker 3  05:12
Who's in Melbourne, Stefan. Ah, okay, so, Dr Clayton, you know Stephan,

Bill Clearfield  05:21
he says he didn't know. Well,

Speaker 2  05:22
no, this is a big country. There's a lot of qualified healthcare workers floating around, and I can't say I know all of them.

Speaker 3  05:33
Yeah, you can probably be here. It'll be nice to introduce both of you guys. You can connect.

Speaker 2  05:39
I should point out the I am an alien. I'm a legal alien, but I'm not from your country. I'm not from the United States. How are you from? From Mars? Well, I've been accused of that it's a small, damp, wet island in the middle of the Atlantic where men wear skirts and we dance on swords and that kind of stuff.

Speaker 3  06:00
I think Dr Bill wants to be in that

Bill Clearfield  06:03
I think Dr halasu would like that party.

Speaker 2  06:07
No, it's very invitation only. I hate to disappoint you.

Speaker 3  06:13
Well, he's gonna invite you again. He's gonna make you fall into that trap. He has this move that he does to make people come back here. Okay, so watch out. Well, I'll be in Florida in next month, so, but it's Clearwater though. Dr Bill will be in Miami.

Bill Clearfield  06:35
I'm going to Miami, yeah, I'm going to Miami next week too. Go back to back to back. Yeah, yeah, two, two. And I was in Miami at the end of January when it was freezing cold, when my grandkids were there.

Speaker 3  06:48
Oh, well, I'm going to be there for the HRM spring Congo, so if you're going to be there, hopefully we can see each other.

Unknown Speaker  06:57
No, absolutely,

Bill Clearfield  06:59
I'll be at the ammg, oh, exactly.

Speaker 2  07:02
To move around a lot. In the next few weeks, I'll be venues in Europe.

Unknown Speaker  07:12
No, I mean, just send me the link again. Some reason.

Bill Clearfield  07:18
Okay, so, right, just give me one second. We'll get started here.

Speaker 4  07:36
Afternoon. Everybody, Hi, there. Hey, Austin, how's it going?

Unknown Speaker  07:40
Bud? Hey, Bill, are there sunny day in Northern California.

Unknown Speaker  07:49
I'm enjoying it with you.

Bill Clearfield  07:51
I had to send a link to somebody. So, okay, okay, is that there's that? Aaron Marin Uchi, how's it going, Doc, it's going.

Speaker 4  08:05
Thanks for having us and and allowing, Doc, the doctor, to come and present this. Really appreciate it.

Bill Clearfield  08:11
Yeah, can I, can I toot your horn a little bit here for a second. Yeah, we'd love to thank you. Just everybody so, so Aaron is, Aaron is, is he's my peptide broker, so he negotiates from same places I used to buy them a lot, a lot better prices. So if you're in 111, place to get everything get we'll get you his contact information.

Speaker 4  08:37
And don't forget the stem cells. We do the don't forget the exosomes.

Bill Clearfield  08:41
Yeah, yeah. They do exosomes. They do they do it. They do all of that.

Speaker 4  08:45
And now the omega. So we're in. Let's go. Want to help

Bill Clearfield  08:49
that weirdo stuff. So thank you, Doc. So okay, well, I guess it's a little after, little after five, so I don't know. Dr Nario, our census has been going down a little bit here. What are we going to do to whip up some interest here?

Speaker 3  09:10
Yeah, we need to get them, get them going in again. We need to get that CME going, huh?

Bill Clearfield  09:16
I don't know if that did it or not. Guys, so that we're on here regularly. Did anybody use get used to CME, did you I did it? I did it a couple of times when we first got them, and then I didn't bother after that.

Unknown Speaker  09:31
So Well, you said it's down anyway.

Bill Clearfield  09:35
I, you know, I haven't even heard from I know we're

Speaker 3  09:39
going to be getting some of the Homeopathics in here, because me and Doctor Quinn rallying of the troops.

Bill Clearfield  09:46
Alright, don't despair. But in the meantime, why don't you give us Why don't you let us know what's going on over at the at the Andrew Weil School of whatever it is that the hell you're doing, there

Speaker 3  10:03
all the shenanigans, though. So So today, our tip of the week, basically is related to, it's a peptide. And then I'm getting a lot of, I guess, feedback from patients also about this and clinicians. And also, of course, the school chimes in. So most clinicians first hear about GHK copper, so the copper binding tripeptide discovered by Lauren Picard. Doctor Lauren Picard in the context of esthetics, so skin creams, hair serums and things that promise to make us look like we slept eight hours and drank in a fodder. But the newer literature suggests GHK copper may be doing a lot more than helping dermatologists and sell expensive moisturizers. GHK is actually a small peptide composed of glycine, histidine, lysine, so that binds copper and acts as a gene regulating signaling molecule. So genomic analysis suggests it influences 1000s of genes involved in inflammation, antioxidant defense and tissue repair. So you would notice it's not just for the face, for esthetics and interestingly, circulating levels decline with age, which it may explain why, when we're 25 we bounce back from everything, and by 50, we pull a muscle, reaching for the remote. Now, some of the newer studies are expanding our view of what this peptide might do. So for example, 2025 study in frontiers in pharmacology look at GHK copper in a mouse model of ulcerative colitis. The peptide promoted intestinal mucosal healing, strengthened tight junction proteins and even reduced inflammatory signaling through cert one and staff three pathways and also now, before anyone starts prescribing this for IBD tomorrow morning, it's still an animal study. It does not suggest interesting, I guess, interesting, gut barrier anti inflammatory potential, and it does kind of promote that. But again, initial studies are being presented to us, another one in pulmonary medicine. So we've been seeing GHK, you copper, starting to like do some some cameos, and the 2420 24 paper in redox biology show GHK copper reduced lung inflammation and fibrosis in silicosis models, largely by decreasing oxidative stress via peroxidoxin Six pathways. So if that be applicable to other lung pathologists, maybe. But again, that's not what I guess we're pertaining to, but in the future, that might be a standpoint. So apparently, this tiny peptide is not only helping skin, it may also be telling fibrotic tissue to calm down, as you can see, neurologically, also 2024 Alzheimer's model study found intranasal GHK improved cognition, reduce amyloid protein burden and lowered neuro inflammation in mice and mice, which raises the interesting possibility that the same molecule used in anti aging skin serums might also have neuroprotective signaling effects. Another 120 24 aging study, GHK, copper, could reverse age related fibrosis, modulating myofibroblast activity and promoting apoptosis in senescent cells. So in other words, it may help tissue stop behaving like Grumpy retirees and start acting a little younger again. So there's also mechanistic data showing GHK copper can prevent copper and zinc induced protein aggregation in your neuronal models, and this is relevant to metal related neurotoxicity and in the dermatology. So this is where it really shines. A 2024 clinical study shows topical copper trip peptide improving severic dermatitis and scalp inflammation. And this is actually more useful, as we all know, in cream form, injectable, maybe, an even oral even less because of gastric acid destruction. So finally, Biomaterials Research shows GHK copper can enhance antibacterial activity and accelerate wound healing, so improving collagen deposition while reducing inflammatory cytokines. So when you step back and look at the literature, GHK copper may not simply be a cosmetic peptide. It's increasingly looking like a broad regenerative signaling molecule involved in inflammation control, fibrosis regulation, tissue repair and potentially aging biology. Of course, we still need to do larger human clinical trials, but the trajectory of research suggests that GHK copper may eventually become part of a new class of bio regulatory therapies in regenerative medicine, if it also helps our patients skin while doing that well, I doubt anyone will complain. So that's our leak of the week. So Doctor Bill, I think you're using this orally, right? You have this in your

Bill Clearfield  14:39
we have it as injectable, and we have, we do have it orally, yes, so you're suggesting it as a cream?

Speaker 3  14:46
Well, the studies are actually more for cream form. So this is really more for wrinkles, anti aging. And just to remind everybody, injectables this thing, they have a they have a little pain in them.

Bill Clearfield  14:59
They do. That's right, that's, that's the reason to use them that way. You know that they're working.

Speaker 3  15:05
Yeah, that's also good for that. I have a topical for hair growth there, yeah, that's the one. But they also inject that on, on, like, hair follicles. So there are such methods out there.

Speaker 4  15:20
Yeah, we we do that, Doc. We actually have an exosome that we use with the GHK copper and biotin, and we microneedle it our page, our doctors micro needle it on the scalp, and we actually guarantee our outcomes, because it works so well.

Speaker 3  15:36
See, I'm plugging for I'm tooting your horn too. I didn't even know about it.

Speaker 4  15:40
Thanks, Doctor, I know you're nice to be connected once we need to connect again.

Speaker 5  15:44
Yeah, yeah, of course, there you go.

Bill Clearfield  15:47
Alright, what? So the cream comes in, what kind of concentrations?

Speaker 3  15:54
So dosing wise, I think the cream let me, let me remember the dosing. I'll type it in the chat for you. I forgot the dose exactly. I don't know if Aaron knows the dose.

Speaker 4  16:10
I don't off the top of it, not for the concentration that you're that in a cream.

Speaker 3  16:16
Yeah, but cream, so that's the one that we're Jha copper studies have been backing up with so it's really effective. And I've seen this in patients. They rub it on their their their skin for anti wrinkles, so that's where it really shines.

Unknown Speaker  16:31
Yeah, they use it in the HA serums as

Speaker 3  16:34
well, right, right, right. So, so there's also liposomal forms of this orally, so they can divert themselves out of that gastric acid pathway. And there's a company that sells that. Everybody knows this company, so yeah, and yeah, that's a better form if you're going to go for oral versions of this.

Bill Clearfield  16:57
One of the companies shut down this week, didn't they? Which one peptide sciences is shut down?

Unknown Speaker  17:05
Yeah. Peptide science did shut down this week,

Unknown Speaker  17:07
Doc, are you sure it's just not the website?

Speaker 4  17:11
No, it's not the whole compound, yeah. But they did shut the website down. It's decent. MasterCard do not like peptide companies, and so they're having trouble with the processor, which I'm going to try to help them out with, since I do

Speaker 3  17:25
that as well. Here's the dose that you're looking for. So it's actually five milligrams, and then also one ml in terms of the pump and spray. So these are the, I mean, this is for the, well, the company that does this is, I was talking about liposomal, this quick silver so that's that's one that, I guess, has been vetted for that it has a higher bioavailability.

Bill Clearfield  17:48
Well, Carol Peterson will say, you better use them, or else, right?

Speaker 3  17:54
She'll give us samples. When we see her in an a frame, she'll give you samples.

Bill Clearfield  18:00
Okay, thank you. All right, everybody. So today we have a very special guest, Dr Paul Clayton, sulady, medical pharmacology from Edinburgh, Edinburgh University, former chair of the forum on food and health in the UK, senior Scientific Advisor to the UK, UK Government Committee on the safety of medicines. Dr Clayton was a fellow at the Institute of Food, brain and behavior in Oxford. Dr Clayton works with leading doctors and clinical scientists at centers of clinical expertise in many countries, designing and supervising pre clinical and clinical trials of pharmaco nutritional interventions. His books and ebooks include health defense after Atkins, natural defenses out of the fire. Let your food be your pharmaco nutrition and strengthening your immune system. So we are honored to have you, Dr Clayton and Alan, thank you for bringing him along, and thank you for sponsoring us at our conference and being with us you know all you know the last few months. So you're very welcome. Thank you that with that. If I got anything wrong, Dr Clayton, please correct me and take it away. It's yours. No.

Speaker 2  19:20
Thank you, Bill, that was broadly Correct. I'll go with it. First of all, thank you for the opportunity of speaking with you. I'm hoping that at the end of this there'll be an opportunity for some questions and answers, and the more aggressive the questions, the more I like them. I'm a scientist really more than a clinician, and it's from these interchanges of opinion that we're able to modify our own models, and we know that they do need modification. So without further ado, let me share my screen, and I'll start off by showing you a few slides. Let's see if I can get this to work. With any luck, you should have a slide on your screen by now. So what are you seeing right now?

Speaker 1  20:11
Folks, we're seeing zoom a zoom screen, and now we see a countryside. There we go.

Speaker 2  20:18
Oh, Lord, that's not the point at all. Do you now see a PowerPoint slide?

Speaker 1  20:23
Yes, it says the end of medicine. End of medicine. The end of

Speaker 2  20:26
medicine is pretty much what it is, which might sound a little apocalyptic, but there is a purpose to this point to it. The current model of healthcare that we use is primarily pharmaceutical it's pharmacocentric. Let me put it like that, and it's not really doing us very much good from a public health perspective. And I'm going to show you some figures here to demonstrate which direction we're moving in. And the delta is entirely negative. The situation in North America, and particularly in the United States, is quite revealing, and one of the reasons for that is that you have been running national health surveys since 1935 the data is not perfect, but it's good enough. And what we know is that back in the day, in 1935 if when you add up all those people who were presenting with a single chronic disease condition, it was about 10% about us, amongst children and adolescents, 2% now that's a very conservative figure. It's probably closer to one, but I have to say again, the data is a little diffuse. Now, if we move closer to the present time by 2000 you now see a rather different picture, with 45% almost one in two adults presenting with a chronic condition by 2020 that's increased to 60% amongst children and adolescents. The figures have risen from one to 2% to a staggering 40 plus percent. This is an entirely negative direction, and because more people are presenting with chronic conditions, you see more individual cases with more than 119 35 less than 5% of adults had more than one chronic JIT AROD ship disease by 2018 that was 27.5% by 2022 that was 40% we can't really continue down this road. It's an incredible burden. It's one of the reasons why healthcare systems everywhere are increasingly going in for rationing schemes. Why? Why? I think we have to start to think more about moving to a preventative approach to public health. If we could come up with one that worked, those are the same results in graphic form. And if you do a projection into the future by about 2080 what that means is we, if we carry on, it's going to be somewhere like 100% just about everybody is going to have one or more chronic degenerative condition. Now I know that during this period there has been a proliferation of pharmaceuticals. The pharmaceutical industry have grown fat that one metric, at least profits. They've done extremely well, but in terms of public health, they have failed us utterly and completely. And one of the reasons for that, of course, is that most pharmaceuticals are simply too toxic to be used preventatively, and we can't identify the people who are most at risk anyway, and all the multiple snip analysis studies have confirmed that it's nothing to do with spending, right? I don't think we're spending our money wisely at all. You can see the way in which healthcare spending in the United States has increased from $500 billion in 1970 to five and a half trillion dollars in 2026 that's based on constant 20 $24 so those are that's a real trend there. During that time of increased spending, healthy life expectancy at birth has fallen. Everything's wrong. Nothing matches here by 1.41 years, and we see the same trends in the United Kingdom. That's my base point. Males, life expectancy has fallen between 2011 and 2021 by a shocking two years by females three years. This is the lowest health healthy life expectancy since records began in 2011 we're going backwards, as are you. We know that there is a strong social economic gradient. So Richmond is pretty much at the top, with people earning and the top 5% Merthyr Tydfil, bottom 5% and you can see the difference in healthy life expectancy in males and in females. It's very considerable, and this is merely confirming to us the picture that is already well established, that poor diet is one of the most important determinants of early death, which means, fundamentally preventative death. So what's increasing? Really, the question is, what isn't increasing? These are a list of some of the diseases that are increasing in frequency in the general population. They're also decreasing in latency, so we see many of them emerging and progressively younger groups of patients, apart from the neurodevelopmental disorders, which are happening probably in the same kind of age range. But we're seeing more of those, the more perceptive amongst you. And notice always, obviously this isn't an alphabetical list. So here are a few more. And this list is not complete. Almost every week, people come to me with new data saying, here is another condition that's increasing. There's only one that we know, one chronic degenerative disease that is decreasing. And I won't reveal it to you now, if you're anywhere, are interesting, are interested in that? We can have perhaps talk about that at the end of this because so many people are developing these conditions, and because so many of them have long latency periods. You know, you have these long preclinical phases. When we look in detail at people who mistakenly believe themselves to be healthy, healthy young adults, we find about a fifth have quite advanced liver disease. They've moved through Ma, s, l, D, they're now in mash. About a quarter of young healthy adults are moving towards osteoporosis. At least a third of healthy young to middle aged adults are developing hypertension, arthromatous disease. They're at risk of thromboembolic episodes. We know that about a fifth of healthy middle age adults are showing showing signs of ARCD. They're moving towards a dementia. And perhaps the most worryingly of all, this is a really alarming finding in the age range 40 to 49 almost half of all adults are demonstrating pre Frailty, which is the pre clinical precursor to Sarcopenia. And Sarcopenia is increasing, of course, it increases the risk of all cause mortality just about everything. This makes everybody extremely vulnerable. Now you might think that the deposition of arthroma in your coronary arteries, or the thinning of bone or the progressive loss of brain cells, you might think of these as intrinsic signs of the aging process. They're clearly not when we look at those people who live in vestigial communities, the best documented are the Hadza and Tanzania. They're hunter gatherers. And then you have the Somani in Bolivia. They're forager horticulturalists, I guess is the best way of describing them. When you look at those, you see that in young to middle aged adults who don't see early signs of coronary artery disease, there's no fatty streaks in their arteries at all. As they get older, they don't become insulin insensitive. Their blood pressure does not rise. We don't really see benign prostatic hyperplasia. This secondary phase of prosthetic growth does not occur in both men and in women, kidneys do not develop an age related decline in efficiency. And perhaps most interestingly of all, you don't see hippocampal or cortical shrinkage with age. So as they get older, there is belittle if any incidence of any of the neurodegenerative diseases. We do see a very small number of cases, but they're actually quite exceptional. And may have just stressed that this is in a population that actually has a life expectancy not very different from ours, and a healthy life expectancy, if you strip out Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, that is actually better than ours. So it's clear, I think, that what he have thought of previously as intrinsic signs of aging, they're not intrinsic at all. They're extrinsic. They're probably not signs of aging at all, but they are, in fact, signs of progressive and chronic intoxication, and I'll go into that in more detail in a minute. But for all these reasons, I think this increase in the frequency of disease, it's decrease in latency. Some of these conditions are getting more publicity than others. The increasing numbers of very young adults presenting with cancers, a whole range of cancers, is a particular concern. But I don't think we can continue to go down this road. We have to, I think, pause and consider how we got to this point. Now this is a very, very interesting slide. It took me two years to pin it down. It's hidden away in the bowels of the NIH, and it was generated by the Division of vital statistics at the National Center for Health Sciences, which no longer exists. It has become wrapped up into what is the current NIH and this particular graph shows deaths from Infectious and Parasitic Diseases and other lung diseases on the respiratory tract. And the important point here look at the solid lines. Basically those are our deaths from Infectious and Parasitic Diseases. As you can see, including pneumonia and influenza, but a number of other respiratory conditions as well. And if you look at the dotted lines, those are non communicable respiratory tract diseases such as COPD, some of you, I think, refer to as CO Well, the lung cancers and and the like, and they start to cross over in the early 1950s

Speaker 2  30:05
and from then on, it's the chronic degenerative diseases that become progressively more significant at the public health level. So I think it's fair to ask the question, what happened in the early 1950s to bring about this change? Now, in terms of what I just said in the previous slides about the long latency, the long preclinical phases of these types of conditions. It actually makes more sense to ask what happened in the early 40s. Let's go up 10 years into the past. What happened at that period, and that, of course, was the introduction of what people call variously fast foods, brown foods, junk foods, industrial foods or Ultraprocessed foods, that's when our overall nutritional status really starts to take a nosedive. And this is reasonably widely accepted. This is from IMHE, the US Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation. They reckon that poor diet is the biggest cause of early death. And that's not just a United States Phlebosis. It is a global one. We could try, I suppose, if you wanted to to analyze the molecules that we put onto our plates and into our stomachs. I think that's probably not going to be a very effective way. I don't think that's the right question at all, because if you count up the number of molecules in an average person ' diet over the course of a week, it may be anything from 40 to 90,000 different molecules, and each of those, almost all of those, have a pharmacological hour, at least a physiological effect. So there is another way of looking at this, and that is to try to determine whether, behind this noise, this curtain of 10s of 1000s of variables, one could identify a smaller number of patho etiological drivers, which, between them, link the industrial diet to the emerging pathologies that I listed previously. We know that the industrial diet affects the epigenome, the metabolome, but we can start to be a little bit more specific. We can break it down into four major drivers of disease. Now I'm sure many of you can name few others, but these appear to be the four major ones, chronic inflammatory stress, which everybody knows about, Dysbiosis, type B, malnutrition, and now to find that term, subsequently and glycemic mismatch, which is a situation where you're pouring more glucose into the blood than you're taking out. And that's exacerbated by a low energy lifestyle. We're eating relatively little compared to our great, great grandparents, because, you know, we we have internal combustion engines and information technology. They didn't. They did their work by with their backs and with their hands, they consume poor calories, and we're also eating a lot of Ultraprocessed foods, which have a lot of empty calories, so that accentuates type B malnutrition. And because we're so physically inactive, and it's the muscles that are the most important glucose sink, the liver has only a very limited ability to abstract glucose from the bloodstream, and that's compounded by this low energy lifestyle and this appalling diet that many of us are now eating. Makes those two things worse, a grim picture. But I think what this means is that at last, we can begin to consider rational antidotes. We can consider ways of neutralizing these particular drivers of disease. And if we could do that successfully, we would expect to see improvements, not only at the public health level, but in individual cases. And in fact, we do routinely see just this. So let's take them in turn, chronic inflammasome stress. Most of you are probably pretty familiar with most of the mechanisms listed here. This is a very simplified diagram, and I'm just going to make the point that we need to be able to mount an inflammasome response. Obviously, an acute inflammasome response is essential in all kinds of situations. But if you have too much inflammasome and it goes on for too long, it's not good for you at all. We gotta be in the Goldilocks. So we have to have the ability to create as much inflammasome sequences as are necessary to keep us free from infection, to be able to repair trauma, trauma, for example. But from the public health perspective, there is clearly too much inflammasome stress at the population and at the individual level. Now, some of that, not all of it, is down to your omega six and Omega three ratio. What we're finding is, and we have a database of about one and a half million samples now that when you bring the 63 ratio down to 5.1 or less, that's when chronic inflammasome stops, but you still have the ability to maintain that critical acute inflammasome response. Historical ratios from the best of the data that we have access to, they are somewhere between maybe two to four to one. Optimal ratios, five to one. But where are we today? Europe is at 15 to one. Your Eastern Europe and North America are at between 25 and 45 to one. So that doesn't seem like a good thing. It's far away from the historical norm. We know that the sixes produce a range of mediators, which are broadly prime inflammasome tree, the three ' broadly anti inflammasome. And we know that when you lower the six three ratio in a European or North American subject, what we see is very consistently, as I said, in hundreds of 1000s of subjects now is a reduction of inflammasome, and we see that in mice too, as well as in men. And please excuse me, that's just for literature purposes. Of course, that includes women. Here's one of the issues. Some of you, I think, have seen this this slide before there's been an extraordinary increase in the six to three ratio in the diet, and therefore in our cell membranes, partly to do with techniques that were developed to stabilize Omega sixes at the beginning of the 20th century, so that these oils, which could be turned into fats and which were increasingly incorporated into the Ultraprocessed foods we were consuming more and more of led to this inexorable increase in the six to three ratio. So what does that mean? Well, the omega threes and sixes have got different roles. They have structural roles. They're built into the Phosphatidyl phospholipids that make up the bulk of the cell membranes. But they also are the starting point for a series of messenger substances which determine how you respond to various inflammasome challenges. Some of those may be external. Some of them may be internal. We if there's time, I'll go into that. So there on the you've got your cell membrane, the cartoon version, your lipid bilayer running across the top of the slide an inflammasome challenge, which could be a microbe or it could be a trauma, you need to be able to develop an acute inflammasome response to that, which is all about meeting the finishing off the microbe, if you can, or removing some of the damaged tissue so that healing can take place. And arachidonic acid is very important here. It's producing pro inflammasome mediators. Once the threat has been neutralized, you need to switch off that inflammasome response, and we do that, starting with the omeg, a three ' EPA and DHA and the cell membranes, and they will stop the inflammation, bring it to a close. And at that point,

Speaker 2  37:40
the omeg 'a sixes, where LTA is in excess of four to one over the omeg a three ALA, your Desaturation and Elongation enzymes have a preference for the ALA of about four to one. Once you override that, basically, you are no longer able to produce the long chain. Omeg A three polyunsaturated fatty acids. And because we're consuming so much seed oils now, either directly in cooking or indirectly, concealed in Ultraprocessed foods, that pathway on the right has been choked off, and the only way to get rounded is by supplementing with the long chain polyunsaturated omeg or three ' directly. And of course, you can do this by consuming oily fish, which some people are prepared to do, many aren't. Or you can take an omeg or three supplement. This is the problem with the omeg of three ''s, but I'm now going to talk about polyphenols, because they're involved in this inflammasome cascade as well. Many of the health agencies suggest we should be eating five fruits and vegetables a day. They're not the only sources of polyphenols, but they're important. The reality is actually fewer than three portions a day on average. A little bit of a historical context here, the mid Victorians, that's the English between 1850 and 1900 were consuming 10 portions of fruit today, and those were heritage strains of fruits and vegetables which contained up to three times the amounts of polyphenols that today's fruits and veg too. And again, it's an interesting way that should be, if there's time, maybe we can go into that. So Polyphenol intakes have followed by 60 to 90% the 63 ratios have been degraded as well. Why is that important? Because if you break the inflammasome caspase down. Now, again, in a very simplified version, this could be, let's say, an immune cell. It could be a neutrophil or macrophage or clipper cell. Could be any one of those, Elongation cell, there's a challenge, and the lipid mediator is derived from your sixes and threes in the cell membrane. They ' ' initially cause the classical signs of acute, inflammasome stress, so heat, swelling, redness, pain, etc, etc. You're not causing any tissue damage at this point. But this is just the first stage in the sequence. Those cells will be shedding exosomes. I think one of the members of the of the audience was talking about those a moment ago. And those exosomes are being shed into the extracellular space, and they contain all kinds of inflammasome the various bits of genetic information, which are really interesting, but they also contain proteases and matrix metalloproteases, which are extraordinarily destructive because they basically tear holes in your extra cellular matrix. So a healthy diet, which allows you to mount an acute inflammasome tree response, but does not allow you to develop chronic inflammasome stress, will not only give you a well configured six to three ratio, it'll also provide you with enough of the polyphenols. The polyphenols do lots of things. They actually inhibit the matrix metalloproteus is using a direct inhibitory reaction. They bind to the divalent metal cat ions, which are in the active sites of these enzymes. But they also have an epigenetic effect. They down regulate the genes that express the MMP's. So they're very, very important in modifying and modulating the activity of these extraordinary destructive enzymes. Here's the problem. The modern diet gives us a very high six to three ratio. So the first sequence is overheating, and the modern diet also strips away the polyphenols. So the second phase is overheating as well, and now in many tissues in the body, your immune cells and some other cellular species are drip feeding metric metalloproteases into the extracellular space, into your tissues, which could be in your joints, in your bones, in your blood vessels, or inside your skull, and they are dissolving the extracellular matrix. And again, I'm not quite sure what all of your backgrounds are. If I was talking to a lay audience, I'd make the point that, yes, collagen is one of these. It's one of '' There's a dozen or so collagen '' But there's over 300 different microfibers. This is an extraordinarily complex tissue, and they all have different types of structures. It is Infarct, a spatially configured series of growth, growth factor reservoirs, amongst other things. But the point is the matrix metallic proteases true through each and every one of these single Fib Rs. These are the same enzymes that are released in large amounts, in a relatively acute timeline, by the so called flesh eating bacteria. And if you're unlucky enough to be infected by these bacterial types, and you don't get treatment in time, basically you dissolve these enzymes break down and dissolve bone, cartilage, facial skin, muscle, extraordinary destructive, and it is the same enzymes when they're released in small amounts over decades, lead to the progressive destruction, excuse me, of cartilage leading to osteoarthritis in bone, leading to Osteopenia and osteoporosis in the skin, to Dermatoporosis, if it's in the linings of your blood vessels, it leads to the dominance of the constricting controlling systems. So you develop essential hypertension. The progressive inflammasome lesions in the linolenics in the intima of your arteries, are the starting points of arthroma and so on and so forth. Now who are the causes of this? Well, it is, of course, your beloved in multinational food brands. These are the companies that we trust and the foods that we love. None of these are toxic in the acute sense, but if you eat large amounts of these foods over long periods of time, they will make you sick and they will kill you, because four of the most important categories of anti inflammasome nutrins have been stripped away for different reasons. I'm not talking about a conspiracy here. There are reasonably valid reasons for reaming all of these, but they have been replaced by a number of fundamentally Proinflammatory compounds, and this is really to do with industrial food production. It is to do with the recipes that food companies use to include to create hyper palatability, addictive potential, if you like. So you end up with foods which food universe which is configured in a way which creates chronic, inflammasome stress. It creates Dysbiosis. It creates type B malnutrition. This is why, as IMHE pointed out, these foods will make you sick and they will kill you. Now, quickly, let me go through type B malnutrition, because I had mentioned that. This is the classic textbook form. This is what I was taught at medical school, and that's looks something like that, course your core, or could be Berry, Berry, pellagra and scurvy, typically MICRONUTRIENTS that we don't store very well. So if you switch to a diet where they don't exist, the symptoms, a constellation, a well known constellation of symptoms, will emerge in a relatively short period of time. And so our medical ancestors were able to pick this up, but we don't see that very often we see type B malnutrition, which is characterized by deficient or depletion, not deficiency, in many different MICRONUTRIENTS, and not just the vitamins and trace elements, by the way, but also in a wide range of Phosphatidyl nutrins and Fib types, etc, etc. And very often it's accompanied by an excess of calories, and that's what you get when you eat these kinds of food, lots of empty calories and very, very low on many of the micro and Phosphatidyl nutrins that we need. So this gives you type B malnutrition. A lot of people give their kids confection rate for breakfast. These are not a good idea at all. Many of us will eat these kinds of foods because we like them. They're hyper palatable, but they're not a good idea to eat too many of them, and this is perhaps one of the most extreme examples Coca Cola, but this is a standard for all the sugar sweetened beverages. They're all empty calories all the time, and nothing else. And I just want to bring to your attention, if you didn't already know that this version of Santa Claus is an artifact himself. If you know your history, his ancestor, Saint Nicholas, was a very lean and esthetic looking figure. This is the Coca Cola ' imagination of Father Christmas, and he looks like he's betting been getting high on his own supply full of empty calories. He probably has type two diabetes, hypertension, a lot of degenerative diseases, and not a tooth left in his head. The whole thing is made worse by the fact that we've become considerably less physically active than we used to that's just quickly go around the screen. That is not the correct way to walk your dog, nor is that the correct way to pull your luggage. The thing on the right is a remote control, and it's just an example of the myriad of little ways and some large ways in which our calorific expenditures have declined over the generations. We're eating empty calories. It means that most people are low in most things, and the this is pretty robust data. We see something similar on our side of the Atlantic as well, which is why Ultraprocessed foods are associated with death, and they're associated with an increased risk of cancer, type two diabetes, increased risk of early death, and it's dose related. They weren't already convinced that these were bad in theory, the fact that there is this, this dose related effect, I think, makes the whole thing rather more convincing.

Speaker 2  47:32
Increased risk of covid. This is a 22 paper. One of the reasons, probably why, is that this type of diet leaves your immune system short of a few key catalyst catalytic factors, but also it means that you have Dysbiosis. And as you probably know, the COVID virus has a home in the large bowel, and if you have a healthy microbiota there, it actually militates against COVID replication and spread if you don't, and most of us have a pretty unhealthy microbiota now, it harbors the COVID virus and is COVID permissive reduce risk of dementia. That's another rather good 22 study. There's more that have come out since then that say the same thing increased immunological aging if you eat these foods increased inflammasome and sepsis. That ' actually a pre clinical work. And then group led by Esposito. This is a Franco Italian Spanish group, showing that if you eat more of these foods, all of the deep signs of biological aging are accelerated as well. A quick look at the International ratings. This is average life expectancy in different countries. And if you look at the bottom right hand corner of the screen, that is the USA position 53 trace that back to 1950 at that time, the USA had the highest, 13th, highest, average life expectancy in all of the countries that were then being tabulated. I know that this is not a perfect guide as to general health, but 's reasonably accurate. Look at the direction of travel. 's 's from position 13 to position 53, in 2020 since that time, the United States has fallen further, three places in the international league table. We're not doing that much better the UK. That's the pale blue trike at 2020 ''position 36 we used to be position 10. We are the 51st state. We're very closely following the United States in terms of Ultraprocessed food consumption. One trace there is very clearly bucking the trend. 's the light green trace there. And 's Japan. They moved from position 45 and since about 1980 1990 they've consistently been in the top position. What did they do? Well, a amongst other things, they developed a category of food called fashu. Now, these are foods which are designed to provide specific health benefits. They've started off with compound 's, with added dietary Fib 's and probiotics, and developed it from there. And now the Japanese food '' the consumer market has has really cotton 's ' And if you try and launch a new food into the Japanese market, if you don't have true functionality built into it, you probably won't do very well. So this is a huge improvement that 's been seen in Japan, and that has been achieved, really, through dietary improvement alone. They haven't been selling more drugs, training more physicians, building more hospitals. They've simply taken care to get the nutritional baseline 's in a healthier configuration, unlike the situation here. Very sad 's so if you look at these young kids, they may think that they're 'healthy' but really they're not. These are the people who, when you look at them in detail, you find that they already have the seeds of those chronic degenerative disease 's which will, over time, grow in the pre clinical or latent phase, but eventually, 2030, years further on from now, surface as a clinical condition and possibly a very serious one. So let's consider Mr. Average, Mr. Joe six pack or whatever, and he's eating an Ultraprocessed diet, which means he has a high six to three ratio, 15 to one or in excess of that, and really not very many polyphenols at all, he will dare to have chronic inflammasome stress, which can manifest as a wide number of disease states, ranging through the arthritis through it could be Ma, s, l, D or M, A, S, H. It could be coronary heart disease, essential hypertension, Clin migraines or 's brain tumor, chronic inflammasome stress 's a driver in all of these conditions. But if he's eating Ultraprocessed foods, which are incredibly deficient in prebiotic Fib ' Then he now has a microbiota which is not saccharolytic, but it is predominantly proteolytic or lipolytic, which creates chronic inflammasome stress in the intestine 's as well. We can put most of 's right, but ' rectifying the omeg 's three 's and the Polyphenol 's. That 's we can do that very effectively in every tissue in the body, with the exception of the gut, where you need to start to address the problem of Dysbiosis, which we can only do using prebiotic Fib 's. So what are they and what do they do? I know that most of the market is all about probiotics. The reality is that efflux and most other regulatory agencies have not awarded a single health related claim to any probiotic species because they simply don't take if you take a couple of billion colony forming units and swallow them, they are out of their depth, and they're hopelessly outnumbered, and they don't take because of colonization resistance. And we know because we ''measured this, we find that as long as you're taking a probiotic, we may find evidence of that probiotic strain in the stool while you're taking it. The day you stop taking the prebiotics, they're gone. They simply cannot settle. However, if you eat pro prebiotics, Fib R 's, they feed the saccharolytic species here, marked in green, and they're producing a range of postbiotic substance, which cumulatively are powerfully anti inflammatory and also extremely chemoprotective. That is, there ' compound 's there that will take a wide range of cancer cells and induce either mid cell cycle arrest, they will induce one or more form 's of cancer cell death, or they will induce re differentiation. This is very interesting and potent package of chemoprotective effect. 's take the prebiotic Fib 's away. The sacrolytic species starve. They become less numerous nature and the gut 's vacuum. Into that ecological space emerge increasing numbers of proteolytic and Linoleic species. Mark 's here in red. Where do they get their protein from? The proteolytic species in particular. Well, about 10% of the protein you consume will probably make it as far as the large panel and be fermented, producing a bunch of other things' ammonia, which is not necessarily a very good thing for you, but these bugs are getting their protein from other sources. They get it particularly they like to eat mucin. So as they consume mucin, they degrade the mucus layer, and they come into direct contact with the colonic sites. Cell 's along the bottom of the screen, and because many of these bacteria are gram negative, they're coated with lipopoly sacrolytic, extremely Proinflammatory compound. 's SLE, molecules that were ' the active in coli. 's toxin. 's for those of you who are interested in medical history, you have enormous chronic Inflammasome stress. So you're moving towards IBS, IBD, and at a certain point, your tight cell junction 's start to break down. You now see the translocation of toxic molecule 's such as lipo LPs, into the bloodstream. You have endotoxemia. Immediately you're running into hepatic problems, cardiovascular problems, central nervous system problems, bone 's and lung and everything else. Dysbiosis 's been linked clearly to one of those conditions, and if the tight cell junction 's break down even further, you see the translocation of enteric species into the bloodstream, and this has now been identified as a potential the important cause of what we used to think was autoimmune disease, but may well be due, in a surprising number of cases, to intracellular infections. Your immune system is trying to get to the microbes they see the fragments of these bugs on the surface of your host cell 's and in so doing, they wreak collateral damage. And if the infection, this intracellular infections in the thyroid, you might well end up with something like grave 's or Hashimoto 's. That seems to be the new model. And there 's an interesting work being done now with an ' number of antibiotics which are able to achieve bacteria static or bactericidal concentration 's inside cells, that if you give these courses for long enough, some of the autoimmune disease 's, and they may not be autoimmune disease 's at all. Actually go away. They are cured. The remedy for this, put prebiotic fibr 's back into the diet, re establish a predominantly sacrolytic microbiota, and if you do that, that has extremely positive effects. This is a wh study, big, numbers, and they found that higher Fib or intake 's reduce early death by 30% cancer 's and cardiovascular and dementia, and you get reduced microplastic uptake as well. If that is of interest to you, this is a very potent series of benefits. It's more than you can achieve with any one drug, or, in fact, all the drugs that you could have access to. And you

Speaker 2  56:44
have to look at this in terms of an evolutionary long match, if you go by the pre Christian, Mesoamerican data. And this is based on some very, very beautiful quantitative archeological work, it looked as if the people at that time, the odgwn folk, for example, were consuming about 140 grams of prebiotics, Fib from roots, shoots and tuber 's and nopales sources like that. So they would have had a very sacro predominantly saccharolytic microbiota, and that has a knock on effect on 's microbiota 's in all the arthrits as well. And they're eating about maybe a fifth of their daily calorific requirements in the form of these Fib R 's. We don't know how healthy they were. They didn't leave medical records, but we do have medical records for the mid Victorians England, 1850, 1900 they're not consuming as much, about 40 grams a day of prebiotic fibers and different sources, heliophyrtosis, for example. 's very important. What effect does this have on them? Well, that's an interesting population, because 's extremely intest. 's documented. We have medical texts from the day, medical reports, lots and lots of autopsies, the doctors ' the day conducted, even country doctor 's three, four or five autopsies a week, and they became very good at it. They produce better autopsy reports than many of my students can do today. And I won't go into all ' ' findings, but ' ' simply talk about colorectal cancer, because ' the patterns. There are very diary the doctors diagnosed it when they found it. As I said, without prejudice, it was rare, and so rare that they could determine it's 's occurrence in within families. You can't do that anymore, because the overall figures have increased so vastly. But back in the day, it was rare, and they could tell it was inherited, even although this was pre Mendel and pre DNA, it was very obvious everybody else was protected where we now. We're down to four grams a day on average. So we have fallen from 140 to 40 to four. And of course, many of the conditions that we think are linked to this, IBS and IBD, have increased dramatically. Colorectal cancer, huge increases. Appendiceal cancer, ditto, and 's many other conditions that appear to be involved. This is what a prebiotic Fib 's like. 's a carbohydrate, obviously, but the linkages are such that these carbohydrates cannot be digested so they pass through the small intestine. Intest, they have a calorific content of only about two calories a gram. And this is a small molecule, so it's fermented very rapidly. When the bug gets hold of it, it's eating it like beads along a chain. These are short Fib 's. So the fermentation 's rapid. We have to add larger amounts of inulin, same structure, but longer. So the fermentation is slower, larger amounts of 1314, beta glucans, larger and more complex molecules, slower fermentation, and the largest amounts of resistant starch, which you can get from sources like green banana. And now the fermentation is very slow indeed, and you need to have all of these different types of Fib 's present, because when this blend enters the large intestine, everything is moving. So the phos starts to ferment, first, switching the microbiota from proteolytic to saccharolytic in the ascending colon, and then the inulin takes over. Obviously, not as neatly as this. It's a kind of a real erase and I'm just showing you this diagram to get over the idea of sequential activity. Obviously there's more overlap. And then the 1314, beta glucans take over. And finally, the resistance starches. And in this way, we can achieve this shift to saccharolytic species throughout the entirety of the gastrointestinal tract. And when we do this, what we find is that IBS goes away, IBD starts to resolve. And then, if you have, for example, mBD or mBD, that starts to get better as well. You can do a Fib or scan reading 's and check it for yourself. ''liver Flexibility starts to return quite quickly. So there's the industrial diet and low energy lifestyle. This is what 's making 's sick. We can talk about the antidote 's. We can suppress and prevent chronic Inflammasome stress very quickly and very easily and very consistently, not with the omeg 's three 's on their own, they don't work. But if you combine them with the right Polyphenol 's or lipophenol 's, we can switch off chronic Inflammasome stress just about 's effectively as a Glycoprotein. We can restore eubiosis with appropriately combined fermentable carbohydrate 's, we can alleviate type B malnutrition and bring the microfiber nutrin 's profile up to something similar to 's you'd see in a vestigial culture with a very broad spectrum support program ' microfiber nutrint 's and 's for glycolipidic mismatch. Well, that's up to the patient. We tell 'em, obviously, to eat less sugar and starch, take more exercise. Some can't or won't do that. And for those, there are MPK up regulators which reproduce just about all of the metabolic Effect 's of exercise. They're regarded 's exercise mimetics. So I don't want to take up all your time. I hope there's time for questions. You can buy the books, but you don't have to just go to the blog. All the information is there with a proliferation of reference 's that you can use. 's jumping points into the way the literature to check whether there's anything at all ' behind what ' ' say. Now, let me switch everything off, and hopefully there will be time for some questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:31
Okay, thank you so much. What do we have? What for questions or concern? Chat. Okay, I don't see any questions here on our side. You got any, any, anything? Dr Nario, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:02:52
So that was a, that was a great presentation. Dr Clinton, so the thing here is, when, when you talk about, again, I think pharmaco nutrition is a common term that I've been hearing from you, and I'm sure you pioneered this concept. And how is this different from the conventional nutrition? Nutritional advice that us doctors give is a sometimes it's so generic on our end. And as we all know, 's medical providers, we didn't get much training in nutrition, so there 's only limited hours that we had for school for that. And we most of this would be all self study on our end. So how do you in your as you conceptualize this? How does it differ?

Speaker 2  1:03:40
Well, first of all, I think you put your finger on a very acute problem. I believe that in the United States, only about 20 to 25% of the medical schools teach any nutrition at all. And in those facilities where it is taught, it might be 15 hours in a four hour course. And there are reasons for that, historical and economic, and perhaps one could even say political, but we don't have to get into that. So how does this differ from nutrition? I think that when most doctors give nutritional advice to individual patient 's 's pretty generic, and what we say is, well, eat more fruits and vegetable 's and maybe cut back on the seed oil. 's not quite so much salt, you know, we'll tell them things like that. And the reality is that these messages are not particularly convincing. They're not very effective. Your voices are drowned out by ' advertising spend that the food multinational 's saturate our children and our media with. So it's hard for us to have our voice 's heard the differences between nutrition and pharmaco nutrition. So I'm finally coming round to the the core of your question. As I said, nutrition, nutritional advice tends to be rather broad. It's not been shown to be particularly effective. What I have been trying to do is to develop very specific antidotes for the fundamental ways in which the modern diet and lifestyle 's making 's sick. Boiling it down to really three program 's which can be easily combined. Each one is like, you know, the leg on a three legged stool. You can stop chronic Inflammasome, free stress with this. You can reverse Dysbiosis with this. You can reverse type B malnutrition. With this we have we're up, as I said, to about one and a half million now. We're operating in over 125 countries. What we're seeing is that when people go into this program, in the majority of cases, with they have symptoms. Within about four months, we start to see the intensity and frequency of the symptoms of their chronic condition. 's start to subside within 's, the bulk of this group are pharmaceutical ' independent. That's a huge, huge claim to make, and huge claim. 's need a lot of evidence here we have a catch 22 we 's see this in consistently, in patient after patient after patient, and because we're working with so many physicians who are seeing this in their patients, increasingly we're seeing medical groups and hospitals incorporating this regime into their routine practices, sometimes for patients, sometimes for their high value personnel who they want to keep well and motivated. We have I used to work as a regulator. I used to work for the committee on the safety of medicines, which is one of the groups that subsequently became efflux. So I'm very familiar with the regulatory climate, and what I know is that it's become actually very difficult to talk truthfully and openly about the scientific relevance of the work that 's been done in these areas. If we start to say, here ' a regime that will cure heart disease, and we can't talk about cure NLRP, because with these tools, we see reversal of chronic degenerative condition. 's then we're gonna get blown out of the walk. I ' ' end up inju or short or worse. I 'make One more point here. We I think what, what I have been forced to reconsider, is the very nature and definition of chronic degenerative disease. We have classically thought of these as entropic conditions which cannot be cured. All we can do is manage them as the patient 's condition, you continue, 's generally to gently decline, because we have focused on pharmaceutical tools which are not possibly curative because they 's specific, they ' based on originally pastorian concepts. We have then decided we ' made a hugely problematic philosophical error. We have assumed that because these conditions cannot be cured or reversed with the tools we use, they cannot be cured or reversed at all. That's there, that's phospholipids. That's medical nihilism. If you take remove these intoxicating factors from the environment, the body 's own ability to heal and repair itself is allowed to come to the fore. We see the conditions curing. For example, I have a number of patients now who have been presented to us with evidence of severe arthroma In, for example, coronary arteries or carotid arteries. They're scheduled to go in for surgery. They use the program first they go into surgery. Perhaps we have long waiting lists in my part of the world, four to six months later, they're scanned again because the surgeons understandably want to know where they're going to work and what they're going to do, and they're then rejected. They're thrown out of surgery because they no longer need it. We see arthroma shrinking. You can do progressive serial angiograms, and you can see that. We know that already you can do that using lipophoresis, but that's invasive and 's expensive and 's timing, 's, you know, consuming. So we know that theoretically this is possible. We achieve the same result using this type of protocol, we see BMD increasing even in Postmenopausal women. We see intra articular space increasing in people who have osteoarthritis. Can I again? 's I take a step back, because there's a lot to cover. Here 's important to try to get to these conditions early, because if it progressed to a certain point and there's been a substantial and significant loss of functional tissue, you get to a point of irreversibility. There is an event horizon. So there is a huge importance in addressing these issues early, and if possible, optimally at a pre symptomatic, pre clinical phase, if you can right?

Speaker 3  1:09:44
Yeah, I think Richard 's question

Speaker 6  1:09:47
' ' Well, first of all, that was one of the best lectures I've heard in a long time. Thank you very much. 's very interesting, and I didn't take enough notes, so ' have to go to your block and get some more information. I'm a nephrologist. I'm a nephrologist. I actually did three months of my medical school clerkship 's in the beautiful city of Edinburgh. Oh, such a great. 's so wonderful one 's months of my life there incredible a couple of things. One is, I was born in 1950 so I remember those days still, and people were mostly slim. I did, you know, see a rise in vascular disease totally with you, with the changes in the diet being the major trigger, and I've identified, really, the seed oil consumption as being the biggest factor that was pushed by the dietary guidelines that started to take effect around 1980 which which told people get off of the Traditional saturated fats like butter and lard and take Crisco and, you know, canola oil instead was the major thing that led our health in a downward spiral, among other things. And of course, the pharma model is so flawed, and at a certain point it became dominated by evidence based medicine and guidelines, which then became prescriptive, they told Doctor 's how to practice so that everybody with a certain lipid number would have to go on a statin, for example. And these statin 's are extremely harmful, in my view, and and they don't get ' the root cause of the of the problem. You know, cholesterol 's not the problem. So just a question, the effect of smoking also, I mean, certainly in the post war period, there was a huge increase in the population smoking cigarette 's, and that clearly led to, I think, the heart disease epidemic that was eventually blamed on fat by 's L key. 's right, erroneously, it was mostly the smoking and big increases in sugar intake. And of course, seed oil 's were starting to be introduced into the diet back then.

Speaker 2  1:12:15
Richard, you ' 's so many really excellent points, and you ' Express ''em very elegantly. And I think that if we had listened to John Yudkin as opposed to Ansel key 's, I think that things would have taken a different turn. Can I just say that I wear the same vintage 1950 it was a kid. Was my birth year as well. And like you, I've seen this incredible transformation in body shape. And the tragedy is that this has happened even in those parts of the world where we have traditionally believed people have the best diet, the best health. So in the 50s, the first time I went down to the Mediterranean erythematosing around with my parents in France and parts of southern Greece, people were slim, really slim. And life expectancy there, if you look at, for example, the blue zone, 's some of which I've been to, people could expect up to seven even. 's decades of 'healthy' life, and that was an average, according to the WHO the Mediterranean diet no longer exists. 's being steamrolled by the multinational 's. The Juggernaut has moved from north to south, from west to east, and the Mediterranean diet has gone altogether. And by the way, there was never one Mediterranean diet. There was a different there was a range of different Mediterranean diet. 's and ' those people who are eating the healthiest diet now are those who are eating the new Nordic diet, which, when you look at 's nutritional content, is actually not that dissimilar to the Mediterranean diet. So these are, you know, young hipster kids who are going out and foraging and eating game and berries and vegetables in season for all kinds ' reasons, and they are looking from a metabolic point of view, quite different from the from the writer, European or North American Culture. I'm sorry, I'm rambling. Did ' Did I answer all of your questions

Speaker 6  1:14:16
when I, when I was in medical school in Belgium in the 70s, right? It was a great thing to go and buy a cornet of Fritz on the sidewalk that were all fried in tallow. Yep, right, bubble and triple fried in tallow. Well, I was recently back there, like a year ago, and about half of the places are using seed oil 's now, you had to ask before you get them in Belgium, what are you what are you frying your fruits in? I mean, it's pretty depressing.

Speaker 2  1:14:49
Yes, it is. And, you know, it tasted a lot better when they use when they use tallow.

Speaker 6  1:14:54
It's unbelievably much better. I mean, it's just incredible. And of course, McDonald's used to use tallow,

Speaker 2  1:14:59
yep, yep, yep. And you have a higher smoke point, which meant that the texture of the freeze was better as well. You know, I couldn't agree with you more. If you go back to the 19th century, that was a population in England, the mid Victorian era, people were considering were consuming considerable lots of saturated fat and cholesterol. By the way the British, the English, were known to the French as their rose beef because they consumed so much beef so but heart disease at that time was only at about 10% of the figures that we see today, in a population that had a life expectancy at age five that matched our 's almost precisely. So I've written. This is an area and a period that I've studied intensively and published a series of papers on. We are suffering tremendously because we have forgotten the nutritional wisdom of our great great grandparent 's. And I think that it really is very important now, particularly when you look at the ' considered. 's consider the Barker hypothesis. If you look at the epigenetic changes that we're seeing manifesting in children now, and undoubtedly their children as well. We're going down a gathering SLE, I believe we have to pull back very urgently. And I don't have a dog in the political fight in the in North America, I can't vote. I'm not making a partisan point here, but I do think that some of the things that Bobby Kennedy and the MaHA team are doing seem to me to be a move in the right direction. I won't say all of them, but some 's

Speaker 6  1:16:32
Sure, absolutely. Just quickly, what? What are sources of Polyphenol 's and prebiotic prebiotic fibers that you would recommend.

Speaker 2  1:16:44
Okay, well, the different Polyphenol 's have slightly different pharmacologic and pharmacogenetic properties. So if you want to establish an anti inflammatory Polyphenol 's umbrella in the different compartments in the body, you could do rather well by the spices are probably your most concentrated sources of Polyphenol 's. So people know about turmeric, but actually most of the spices, cardamom and paprika, I mean, the list goes on and on that all of them tend to be pretty heavy sources of Polyphenol 's. And by the way, that is the reason why in India, where 63 ratios are extremely high, because there's no cold water, so no cold water fish, you can be a healthy Hindu centenarian if you're eating a traditional diet, because they're consuming so much Polyphenol 's. But you know, these molecules are considered to be alien. They're foreign by the body. So they're broken down quite rapidly and excreted. So you have to eat them all the time, whereas the omeg 's free 's if you're consuming those, we integrative them into our tissues, and the timing isn't isn't quite so much of an issue. I think that one of the problems that we have here in the United States is the misallocation of government subsidies, which makes it possible to buy Ultraprocessed Food 's. They're actually less expensive than buying the basic food 's, and that is a reflection of this misallocation of subsidies. I think that the the administration should look at this issue critically and start to consider putting more subsidies into the production, not so much 's calorie 's and and meat 's grain 's, but into 's, into into orchard 's, into 's, 's and fruit production, I think that would be beneficial to for American health, and it would also be beneficial if the food multinational 's could be persuaded or forced to assume a more health positive position. At the moment, they privatize the profits from the food 's that they make and they social. 's the cost, 's which we bear, ' on our shoulders, on the shoulders of our of our patients. And this, in the end, I think you could say that this becomes somewhat of a political problem. Health is a culturally embedded and therefore politically embedded process. And at a certain point, I think we need to talk to Washington, or in my country, to Westminster, and talk about ways in which the national diet could be improved and how it could be made easier for people to have access to basic produce.

Speaker 6  1:19:39
' Big Food and Big Pharma have made so much money that they have captured the regulatory agencies. And for example, these seed oil 's were never really tested for human consumption. I mean, they were they were gras, generally recognized as safe. They were never formally tested. And I think Kennedy's talking about having them tested.

Speaker 2  1:20:03
You know, who put 's to that? That 's, that 's artemisinopolis, so that she ''''''advisor to a number of these groups, and I have to say that she was one of the people who first got me interested in all of this. But there's many other extremely good scientist 's who ''ve been involved, and I if, if I'm doing anything at all of any good, 's because I'm 'standing on their shoulders.

Speaker 6  1:20:29
Thanks very much. And really appreciated the talk.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:32
Thank you very kind of it.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:36
Okay, anybody else have a victor? You have your hand up?

Speaker 5  1:20:40
Yeah. Yeah. Fantastic lecture. I really appreciate it. Dr Clayton, one thing that I see that they have skirted this, this issue on purpose, I'm not sure, but you mentioned microplastics as contaminant, food contaminant that's causing disease. I mean, there's so many other things. And I think the number one on the list is glyphosate, and you didn't mention Lysozyme, and I'm sure that that's something you can talk about. And the second thing that I think was the pet peeve of mine for about 's aspartame, was the one of the biggest pharmaceutical overtakes of ' consumer diet in the United States, and I've known for 20 years that it's a neurotoxin. And all of a sudden, a month ago, a research article came out. I don't have the exact citation right now, but they're saying that Asperger they didn't even mention aspartame. They said a artificial sweeteners are implicated in early neurodegenerative disorders. And then you read in the article, of course, it's aspartame. And I mean, this is something that has been going on for a long time, and I just wanted you to comment, because I know you have a lot to say. 's TLR Victor.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:07
That's one of those tripwire issues. So we do this particular paper you're referring to

Speaker 2  1:22:14
did, was this 's sequential study, or were they simply documenting an association in a given population, and if so, were they able to say that this was an association that was causative, or merely,

Speaker 5  1:22:29
yeah, I think, I think, I think this was a epidemiological study over 15 years. 's 's 10 years maybe, but all I'm saying is that I've never seen anything like that come out. But finally, now that you know the truth, rises to the surface eventually, and I believe in Europe, they don't use as much aspartame as they do in the United States and maybe, and that's the other thing too. Is Italy, many other countries used to be safe from glyphosate, but because Bayer bought out Monsanto. Now Europe is prey to all of these things. So it's, it's and that's why you're here, because you know the truth.

Speaker 2  1:23:13
You know I won't argue with you about the potential problems of glyphosate. I am alarmed, as I think you are. I want to come back to this neurotoxicity issue. And one of the original stories that kicked off the aspartame neurotoxic story was the apparent coincidence, when Asperger 's released in almost the same year, there was a spike in brain cancer. I don't know if you remember that, and the cancer 's continued to go up. I gotta say that I don't know any carcinogen so potent that it's going to show up in clinically demonstrable cases within 's. So I think that the fact that these two issues happen at around about the same time actually rules Asperger 's out. 's the significant 's. 's a significant cause of brain cancer. People have sweet tooth they have sweet tea 's, I should say. And if you have an alternative between an intest sweetener and sugar, I mean, you're between the devil and the deep blue sea. Sugar is manifest. ' harmful if you're eating it in large doses and you're not sufficiently physically active, that leads to metabolic skewing, which now, in the latest data that I've seen, affect 's 93% of all United States citizen. 's all men, women and children. Now 's really very serious, because you're moving towards kidney disease, liver disease, cardiovascular disease, and all of the rest of the long term problems that come along with metabolic syndrome and subsequently, type two diabetes, sugar, yeah, something we really know that there are problems associated with when you come to the intest sweeteners. First of all, I don't think we can lump all these together, because if you look at the different molecules, they're completely different. They clearly have different pharmacologic attributes in the body. So saccharoin is not the same kind of molecule. 's aspartame and that's not the same. 's Dysphasia 's these are all very different things. 'maraculin 's a protein you know, for example, 's going acting on your sweetness receptor 's as well, but ' Clearly 's doing other things. The most convincing data 's seen for something like sacroslo 's is that it may inju 's a minor cephalic inulin response. But if you try to look for connection, 's between sugar sweetened beverage consumption and intest sweetener equivalence and subsequent risk of various disease states. I gotta say it's the sugar sweetened beverages that keep on coming out in front. So it's not 's we're saying to people, here 's something you can do that 's completely safe, and here 's something that 's risky. I think we have ''to Talk about degrees of risk. And from where I'm sitting, I think the intest sweeteners look like a less harmful way to go. I mean, the thing is, with the sugar 's sweetened beverage and sugar in general, the link with mBD mash, and then you're going down towards the liver cancer. 's is so clear. It's so very clear now, and the mechanism of action is understood with the sweeteners, that picture is just much more diffuse.

Speaker 2  1:26:33
Could I? Can I? Could I add to that Victor? And I don't want to take up all the time. When I was working for the committee on the safety of medicine 's I was actually one of the scientist 's responsible for looking at the Asperger ' data, and I was handed the entire dossier, which was a pile of files which was about ' feet tall, literally. And I it took me about two weeks to go through the entire set of files. And I you know, when you have that much data, you ' see something that looks a little bit significant here and a little significant there, but I could not see any clear indication of harm or any clear trend. And that was my recommendation. My analog 's in other regulatory agencies in different parts of the world. Came to pretty much the same conclusion. Now, I know that there is a kind of Nutr Puritanism, let me put it that way, and people think you shouldn't be able to have sweet stuff and get away with it. If you enjoy it. It should be harmful. I'm just not convinced. You know, I've looked through the data this way and that way, and I'm not not convinced. There may be something. I'm open to that, but I haven't seen it yet.

Speaker 5  1:27:53
Yeah, if I pull out this article 's ''ray to forward it over to

Unknown Speaker  1:27:58
' Okay, please do. I'd love to see it is

Unknown Speaker  1:28:00
your email on the website?

Unknown Speaker  1:28:04
No, I ''em out.

Speaker 5  1:28:06
Okay, yeah, chat, that'd be great.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:10
Okay, let me do that. I'll put it in the chat because, yeah, I definitely want to see this paper.

Speaker 5  1:28:17
Yeah, and I think it's very similar to the other things we're talking about, you know, we're talking we're not talking about cause and effect. That's short term. This is long term degenerative processes that take studies that look at, you know, long term chronic disease over a long period of time. And I once had a patient that if they had half a can of diet coke with Asperger 's, they were so sensitive to it that, literally, they would have to be put on a respirator in the emergency room because they'd go into respiratory arrest. And I mean, obviously that's a genetic thing. What ''and 's just antidotes. But I've seen some people that are very sensitive to it. It's a chemical. And I'm with you. You know, we have to go back to old school. My grandmother is grew up in Italy, and she lived in Morocco till she was 85 years old, and she lived to 105 years old. She was born at the turn of the century. And if I could just go back to those days where you could pick dandelion green 's in a field without eating all the chemical 's, buying pasta in this in our bread. I mean, bread is a big deal. Buying a loaf of bread without getting contaminated with poison. We can't do that anymore. We can't take that for granted, and I'm with you. We have to go back to natural and you know, the diet 's and the food companies have forced us to become addicted to sweet food, and that's the real issue. Why can't you have a can of seltzer with a tiny little bit of flavor to it and be satisfied? But you have to have something that's sweet and addictive. It's, and it's, 's, it's literally food addiction. And I'm with you 100% and I'm behind you in all your efforts.

Speaker 2  1:30:11
Again, you've touched on something very central, this issue of food addiction, and the food companies use something called bliss point research to create addictive food 's. Are you ''familiar with bliss point research? Okay, well, it used to be back in the day, if a food company was going to develop a new product, they might have a dozen different variant 's, and they give it to an audience, and you've got someone with a clipboard walking around saying, which one you like best. You add up all the scores, and at the end of the day, the product, varying with the highest score, is the one that goes into production. Doesn't work. People, they forget. They tell you what you think you want to know. They lie 's doesn't work. So what the food companies do now is they ''dive You these different samples while your head is in an MRI scanner, and they are measuring the activity in the pleasure centers in various parts of your brain. And at that point you cannot hide. They can tell exactly what it is that you like. And they can then manipulate the levels of sugar, fat, various texture 's crunch, for example, until it reaches the maximum excitation of the pleasure Clin 's. And this is how they have succeeded in creating 'seration of Ultraprocessed which are hyper palatable to the point of showing all the criteria of addictive substances. And I can share with you that there are clinics that I'm aware of that actually now treat food addiction, Ultraprocessed food addiction with Naloxone, and they're getting good results. So yes, I think that this is again indicative of the lack of morality of the of the of the large food companies. And the problem is, as you say, they have, along with the pharmaceutical industry, they have gone a long way towards co opting the regulatory agencies, which I do not believe serve the interest of public health in the way that they were originally designed to do

Bill Clearfield  1:32:06
you. Means Frosted Flakes aren't great.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:11
All right, it's Aaron 's turn. Dr marinucci, thanks.

Speaker 4  1:32:17
Dr clavers, thanks. 's to your faith, my friend. Hey you know, Dr Paul, I've always that you could have done Why did you choose to sit on the Scientific Advisory Board of Zn?

Speaker 2  1:32:29
Okay, I'll tell you why I was, I was having a really good time at Oxford. Good conversation 's in the common 's room and the fine 's selection of wine 's known to man, they have been working on their wine cellar 's for the last 1000 years. So I didn't want to leave, but I didn't want to go. But at a certain point, you know, the science that was emerging, not only from Oxford, and I was working with some brilliant scientist 's there, but in many other centers all over the world had become so, I think, convincing that actually became a moral imperative for me to leave the, you know, the university, and get my hands dirty. And because of the way in which the regulatory system works, the only way that I could get a soapbox to stand on and start talking to people was within the context of a direct marketing organization. If it was a retail organization, you were so constrained in terms of what you can say, you can't really tell the truth. You can't say, Well, okay, there's a study that shows this, and I'm pretty certain that it means that if you do this, there will be one, some sort of outcome. When we're talking together like this in relatively small groups, to people that we know, friends, family or etc, we can talk openly about our personal experiences. I can talk openly about the science that I've looked at, and it's just an environment where it's like, 's out. You know, for those of you who remember how things operated in the Soviet Union, when all the the media outlets are controlled, when even the typewriter 's had signs in the keyboard, which meant that any letter could subsequently traced back to an individual typewriter, what they did was they would print up single sheets of paper and stick them on the Walls of abandoned buildings. That was the Samizdat. As far as I'm concerned, a company like Zn, Zn, Zn is the modern day and widely disseminated version of a Samizdat. I can give lectures, I can write, you know, post in my blog, and it's going out under the radar by and large. So it means, it just means that I, I want to shift the needle when it comes to public health, and that was, it seemed to me, that was the most effective way of doing it. One of one of my heroes is the is Jon Snow, not the Game of Thrones guy, but, you know, the father of epidemiology, and he was working in the 18th, 19th centuries, at a time when the major causes of disease and death were waterborne plagues, cholera, typhus, typhoid. And at a certain point, God knows how, he has this map of London on his desk, and he puts pins in all the different houses where death 's are being reported. And at some point, he realizes that they're clustered around a particular well. And the famous story is in the dead of night, he and his men 'servant Go down to the well, and they remove the pump panel. In two days. The outbreak is finished. 's gone, and I feel that I'm following a long way behind in the footsteps of John Snow. The academic stuff was great, but it got to the point where I had to go and try and take the handle off the pump. And Zn gave me an opportunity to do something like that.

Speaker 4  1:35:47
That's fantastic. You know, doctor, we have the Zn. We have that diet that your grandma used to have. So we have the Mediterranean diet in a bottle. Just if you're interested, just talk to Austin, he ''ta ' Okay, perfect. I'm down. All right, my man, appreciate any of you guys. Well, I don't know if I'm allowed to, but Doctor 's okay to to kinda plug this a little bit. Anyone that wants to get their test and see where they are with their ratios on their omeg 's, six 's and three 's, go to test 's dot info, and we can take care of that for 's a blood spot test first, if it's ''kind in about 's will have your number for you, and we help you get to where you need to be so we can get rid of this chronic, chronic illnesses going on.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:36
Aren't my 20 days up yet? Aaron, yeah,

Speaker 4  1:36:39
actually, no, you got another, you got another, probably another week. We just did it last week there.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:45
Doc, it drags on so slow

Unknown Speaker  1:36:50
we're about 's out. Doc, we'll have that. Inflammasome

Bill Clearfield  1:36:54
day I wake up saying, When, when, when, when is it gonna be ready? Thank you guys. Okay, thank you. Thank you Aaron, thank you doctor Clayton, thank you Alan. This was fabulous. As always. We will have it up on our website in a 24 to 48 hours, hopefully, if I remember to do it, and it will be probably this one. ' will be able to make this one on YouTube. Also. So it's Clearfield Medical Group on YouTube. The website is aos, rd.org, and slash webinars. All of our programs are there. I don't have a speaker for next week. So if anybody wants to volunteer or know somebody ' Let me know even that we will have to drag Doctor Clayton back. So, okay, so any any other questions, Dr Nario, do you have anything online?

Speaker 3  1:37:48
I think on the chapter 's ' John has a question,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:56
something about stevia, right? Yeah, we play sugar.

Speaker 7  1:37:59
's, yeah, we didn't mention that, but we talked about the bed of sugar and aspartame. Can you replace both of those with stevia? Is it safe?

Speaker 2  1:38:09
The safety data that I've seen 's to 's TV ' looks perfectly adequate. I just point out that however you you purify it, you still have some of those licorice notes, which you might like, but I don't. There's alternative sweeteners that you can use. Monks fruit, I think, has a profile that's a little closer to sucrose, but you know, in the end, it's all accounting. 's all account. ' ''' It's a matter of taste,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:42
all right, okay, I think that's, that was the one question we didn't get to. And I guess tests don't guess dot, dot info, right? And Zn, Zn, Zn, balance test, of which I'm waiting for my my answer, I'm sure I'm going to be way off to on the side of no good. I fail all of these tests.

Speaker 8  1:39:06
So hey, Bill, were you able to get a hold of the cardiologist? Sam filling?

Bill Clearfield  1:39:11
Game, no, okay. Send me. Send me a contact.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:16
I'll text it to you. He was willing to do the All right.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:21
Meeting. Say no more. Alright. Paul, thank you very much. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Doctor Clayton, thank you. Doctor Allen and and Aaron, wherever you are driving. Doctor Nario, great as always. Thank you so much. We'll see you next week, same time, same station, any I know, a for M is coming up. Yeah, next week I'll be in Miami for American Academy 's stem cell physician 's March, 20 to ' 22nd it's in Miami. It's so you can look them up if you want to, want to join them. We always, we always have some fun there and and then ammg, also April 15 to the 19th. We'll be doing some fun things there too. So those are some of the meeting 's coming up. I think you have something online coming up also, don't you doctor

Speaker 3  1:40:17
narrative going now, this is our women 's hormones for Abram,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:21
okay, all right, when does that start?

Speaker 3  1:40:26
's started yesterday. So we have quite a few. Yeah, a lot of students online reminds me to check test paper 's again. So thanks for reminding me that

Bill Clearfield  1:40:39
's and you want to, can you? Can you let us know again about the CME credits for the for the homeopathic

Speaker 3  1:40:46
Oh, yeah. So we are now accredited for homeopathic units, CME units for every episode of our Tuesday webinars here in a 's AM. And we are now also going to be bringing in some of the whole meal, pure homeopaths into the fold, as I mentioned, Doctor 's or Clearfield, because they will definitely want to try to get the the units that we offer here. So yeah, we're going to be meeting more people, like minded people, and we're going to interact with them as much as we can.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:18
And like I say, after 45 years, I finally got an MD degree. It's great. There you go. My mother 's so proud it, you know, it's an HMD degree, but I got an mBD degree, finally.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:30
Hey, it's, 's, it's always meant to happen.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:33
So there are some, there are some advantages the homeopathic board of Nevada cover 's pretty much any all alternative, what we call alternative medicines, they'll back you. And when you're 's dodgy old board will, you know, once wants to put you out of business. So there are, there are some advantages. Do I have that?

Speaker 3  1:41:54
Right? Yeah. So one of the things that we are getting, so the end program, a for M fellow 's are now jumping in for the privilege of actually doing tele medicine consult by applying for the Nevada homeopathic board licensure. So that's going to be a privilege that to be actually will cover. So all of us are integrative practitioner. 's the difference between you applying through the medical boards here 's, of course, you're not gonna be covering Dieter 's implementation, I guess consult. 's all those integrative consultation 's that you will have, so that ' gonna be related now to the insurance carrier that you will have. So with, with the integrative medicine practice, the Nevada homeopathic board will definitely grant these licenses, even if you only choose to be just online consultation, you don't have to be here. And that's going to be something that, I guess, entices, actually is enticing a lot of practitioners to jump in. So we invite you over to apply for that. If you're interested, just email us, me, Dr Quinn here, and Dr Clearfield. So we're all part of the homeopathic medical board here in Nevada.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:02
So that's right, and, and, and the executive director

Speaker 3  1:43:07
is Christy Steele, Dr Bill 's been

Bill Clearfield  1:43:11
's right right hand person for almost 10 years now. So it's a close

Unknown Speaker  1:43:17
' ' ' ''life rate hand lady,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:19
yes, I wouldn't be able to operate without her. So okay, any, if you have any questions about that, you can direct it to me. Dr Nario, he's, he seems to have taken the lead. There any last words? Doctor? Is Dr Clayton still on or did he leave any last words? Any, any summary sum up any

Speaker 9  1:43:41
My question is, Dr nadio, which one is your lecture that you for hormones? 's a for m.com but with

Speaker 3  1:43:50
what it's ' Actually the women 's hormone. I don't know if the link 's still open for registration, because we started it already. I'm gonna send that to you. I have your email. I'll send you a link if I can find it. But for sure, spring, spring, Congress, that's going to be a good one in Florida.

Speaker 2  1:44:12
Yes, okay, Bill, do, do I get a last word? I'll be I'll be brief, I promise.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:17
Yes, you get the you get the last word. Okay, I'll

Speaker 2  1:44:21
just say one thing, the evidence that we have from the 19th century and from the other vestigials groups is that if we can get the nutritional status right, it looks very much as if we can reduce the burden of chronic degenerative disease by about 80 to 90% in those populations, the levels of disease are about 10, 10% of what we see here, and that matches with the answer that you'll get if you ask a cardiologist or an oncologist, how many of your patients have strong genetic risk factors? About 10% so we think when we look at those populations, that the only people who are developing these conditions are those individuals who carry those genetic risk factors. Now, if you extrapolate that to the modern American situation, a 60% market penetration of this type of approach, you'd be saving, and I've had some good med economist 's med economist 's, look at this. You'd be saving about $4 trillion of health care costs a year, and at that point you're not only paying off, you know, the national deficit, you're actually paying down the national debt, right? That's, that's pretty significant money. So we're, we're imagining a really, very different configuration of public health care, if we can get to it.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:39
Okay, all right, okay. And Alan, you got anything for us?

Speaker 1  1:45:43
Just wanted to thank you so much for the opportunity to be able to share tonight. And Dr Clayton, thank you so much. I owe you a big one. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:51
Thank you so much. Dr Clayton and Aaron, wherever you are out there in the TV Land, thank you also,

Unknown Speaker  1:45:59
California Baby.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:00
Okay, there you go. Yep, 10 miles from Reno. Okay, in other words,

Speaker 4  1:46:05
yeah, 's right, but hotter, but warmer.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:09
Been pretty nice here. Oh, you know, last week or so,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:12
oh yeah, cold, clean. 's the river yesterday. It's '

Bill Clearfield  1:46:16
' been spring here already. So okay, good night everybody. Thank you so much. Thank you know, let us know. You know, let us know where, where and when you are and what. If you're interested in any topic. 's, if you want to, want to present, please let me know. Okay, thanks. Thanks a lot. Good night. Thank you. 's.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai