Unknown Speaker  00:48
Hey, Doc, how are you

Bill Clearfield  00:49
good? How are you

Speaker 1  00:54
I know what a great time we had.

Bill Clearfield  00:59
Yeah, you made it back. Okay. Can

Unknown Speaker  01:03
you hear me? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:05
I hear you. Okay. You got home, okay, and we'll

Speaker 1  01:08
Oh yeah, my gosh. We didn't get home until close to midnight last night, and then I was up till three in the morning just I had a few things I had to get done before my seven o'clock meeting, so I had about three hours of sleep.

Bill Clearfield  01:25
Okay, well, we'll, we'll, we'll, we'll take notes, in case you fall asleep here,

Speaker 1  01:32
it was a brutal day today at work, too. Oh, my God. So I'm good. I couldn't do it like multiple times in a row, but this wasn't too bad. I have to fly to Arizona with Thursday so so I like, I unpack, wash laundry, tomorrow's busy day of podcast and stuff, and then fly back out Thursday for another it's like more political conference. Oh, okay. Well, okay, somebody asked me to do it, and good for you, yeah, so it's this guy does me a lot of really positive things, and he asked me if I would be in his booth for him. And I said, Okay, I'll do it.

Bill Clearfield  02:18
Okay, that's a lot of running around, though, isn't it? Yeah,

Speaker 1  02:21
I don't normally do that much. I got quite a few trips next year, but this would be my last one for this year. So not too bad.

Bill Clearfield  02:35
Not too Dr Nario, I think I muted you by accident there. When I tried this, she'll be

Unknown Speaker  02:40
do the cases. That's okay.

Bill Clearfield  02:45
I did it now. I now, I muted our speaker.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
That's not okay. You're beating me.

Bill Clearfield  02:52
You're beating me to letting the people in. That's what it is. And then what happens is the next, the one below, it keeps popping up, so

Speaker 2  02:59
it's like a whack a mole game. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  03:05
So everyone recovered from the weekend here, I left half the stuff I collected in the in the in the in the in the rooms at the hotel, because I had no place to put them.

Speaker 1  03:25
The case dedicated to nothing but the the joyful things I brought home,

Unknown Speaker  03:32
they wasted a lot of paper, that's for sure. They do,

Bill Clearfield  03:35
yeah, and, you know, they gear up for that, and then in three days, it's over. So I know some of those, some of the vendors there those huge displays they put up for three days.

Unknown Speaker  03:47
So the cost is ridiculous.

Bill Clearfield  03:49
I think they charge like $50,000 or more for, you know, like the those big ones, you never got more than we never got more than 1500 on any of our vendors. But

Speaker 2  04:02
you should have asked strive pharmacy, how much they paid for theirs. I

Bill Clearfield  04:07
want to know how much they paid for dinner.

Unknown Speaker  04:10
It was good

Bill Clearfield  04:13
dinner, though, wow. The second night, the second night there was how many people were there, like 35 there at least.

Unknown Speaker  04:21
Oh, bummer. I missed it. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:23
you missed it. We went twice, twice, paid for dinner, so I sent him a couple of prescriptions yesterday and today that I don't usually do

Unknown Speaker  04:32
some prescriptions today too.

Bill Clearfield  04:35
I don't. Is that wrong?

Unknown Speaker  04:39
No, that's a nice thing to do.

Bill Clearfield  04:42
Yeah, that's not considered a kickback, is it?

Speaker 1  04:46
Because they didn't ask for it. So you're good. Well,

Bill Clearfield  04:50
you know, I mean, what are they? They had these huge, two huge dinners for I mean, it wasn't, wasn't out of the goodness of their heart,

Unknown Speaker  05:00
yeah, so it worked. Didn't

Speaker 2  05:03
it good? Mary, did you guys have a booth in a frame?

Speaker 3  05:10
No, we decided not to. It's conferences are new for us. So this year, we went to plmi and Whis and next year, we haven't decided what conferences we're going to

Unknown Speaker  05:27
yet. Yeah, you guys are you guys?

Bill Clearfield  05:30
700 vendors were there, so, oh, wow, it's easy to get lost.

Speaker 3  05:38
Well, I know that there were definitely people interested, because we got a list of emails of people that want more information, so someone was talking about us. Yeah, that's good.

Speaker 2  05:50
You should set up your booth near Dutch. Yes, yes. Doctor Bill, have you seen their test? It's No, I

Bill Clearfield  06:01
haven't, so I'm anxious to see it.

Speaker 2  06:05
It's like a cycle MAP test, but you can do it like in a very cheap, cheaper way.

Bill Clearfield  06:14
I can't, I told you before, I can't think who. I can't think who it is. She's a family doctor, but she does this. She's done these kinds of things. She did, she did a couple of she did a couple of conferences for us. Her husband's a gastroenterologist, a do gastroenterologist, and like, this is my old timers disease. I can't think of her name, but she did something with it sounded similar to this. So Dr Halas on the phone. Everybody carry on. Yes, hey, Okay, we're good. Okay, you heard that. I'm on, I'm on talking to everybody. All right, thank you. Great. He's, he's a Wheeler Dealer. That guy

Unknown Speaker  07:16
is. He still there. He's still in Vegas. I don't

Bill Clearfield  07:19
know where he is he? He hangs out with Doctor Joseph

Unknown Speaker  07:26
and mom.

Bill Clearfield  07:28
She was cool. She, she's a cute little lady, wasn't she? Mom, yeah, she's a she was pretty cool

Speaker 4  07:37
firecracker. Yeah, sure was. I was out on the floor, and I ran into her, is there? She's, they're working these booth people hard. I mean, she was quizzing them on their stuff. It was funny.

Bill Clearfield  07:51
So she's, in case, you know, Doctor Joseph's mother. She's, what, 80 years old, yeah, like, what, 8486 Yeah. And she's all of what, five feet tall, maybe she's so short, yeah, but she is, she was, she was a firecracker. She was great, amazing.

Speaker 4  08:10
I mean, she, I heard she was much younger. She, I don't know, I think, no, she was younger 80s. Yeah. Will No, she's 8080, plus 80.

Bill Clearfield  08:27
I'll find out

Unknown Speaker  08:29
she's not 60, she's 80. We

Bill Clearfield  08:31
have, we have this lady, Tatiana warsiac. I recruited her from a 4m so welcome. I got her. I got her. Thank you. Thank you for coming. We're happy to have you.

Speaker 5  08:50
Thank you so much for letting me be here. I'm actually driving from the gym. Alright,

Bill Clearfield  08:56
don't get an accident. Yes, I'll

Unknown Speaker  08:58
be like on the Bluetooth.

Bill Clearfield  09:01
This is what I do. You know when? When Hawass thing on Monday night I'm at the gym?

Speaker 5  09:07
Yeah. So yes, keep us, keep us going, both men in life. That's what I believe. Mm, hmm,

Bill Clearfield  09:14
okay. Well, it's a little after five. Doctor, Doctor Nario, you keep clicking them in and rosemary, you ready to go? I'm ready.

Speaker 2  09:26
Oh, rosemary, before you start, dr, Bill, thought you were 16 years old.

Bill Clearfield  09:31
Take the pictures online that are, I know you're you're just wearing the glasses to look older, right?

Speaker 3  09:39
They're actually blue light glasses, since I look at screens all day long. So

Bill Clearfield  09:43
okay, well, they make you look older than my other pictures. Yeah. So, so when I was an OB GYN resident, we had two, two hospitals. One was in North Philadelphia, which is sort of equivalent to South Central LA or average age patient was about 16, and the other one was in Cherry Hill, New Jersey, which was sort of the Beverly Hills of Philadelphia. So when I was at our main hospital, nobody ever said anything to me. When I went over to Cherry Hill, they'd say, we don't want you. We want the doctor. You're a kid. I grew a beard. There you go. So I shaved it off when it turned white. So there's Dr Quinn. He's, he survived the festivities. Also, I made it. I made it. He made it. And, you know, we got to we were honored, because Dr Quinn was actually wearing a shirt. So those of you that are Dr Quinn's usually not wearing a shirt. So,

Bill Clearfield  10:45
dr, dr Claudia. We got to meet her in person. It was really fun seeing everybody in person. Because, you know, usually we're only looking at screens. So maybe one of these days we'll get ourselves together and do a live conference, you know, on our own again, like we used to. So, so great. That'll be, that'll be a, that'll be a, a reach, a stretch. So, so today we have wrote Doctor rosemary, McKenzie, and she's going to show us something that I it's some sort of device. Is that what it is? And our title is How hormone monitors are changing the way providers care for women. So we see lots of women, and you look a lot more mature than in this picture here.

Speaker 2  11:44
You know what a pokemon ball is? Yeah, it looks like that.

Bill Clearfield  11:50
Okay. Okay. So objectives, we're going to learn, how about the clinical settings where hormone tracking through urinary metabolites is beneficial. We're going to learn urinary metabolites correlate with serum levels, and we're going to be able to identify potential issues by reviewing chart examples. And so what happened to your bio here? It's not in here. Got lost. So I'm going to let you introduce yourself. So usually, oh, here it is. Okay. So rosemary. Mackenzie is an experienced natural family planning, planning expert, trained in both the Marquette method and symptom thermal method. She's got 10 years of experience. She works extensively optimizing women's journey through life. Those with regular and irregular cycles, postpartum amenorrhea, chemo induced menopause, perimenopause, and assist them in tracking their hormone levels of promotes overall health. She works at the women's health and fertility care clinic, where she focused on restorative reproductive health using napro technology and FEM practices. We actually had lectures on that. So she educates health care providers to effectively integrate hormone monitoring into their practices, offering guidance through webinars, case reports and one on one consultations, ensuring that providers are confident in implementing ongoing remote hormone monitoring. So a lot of us are hormone centric people here. So we're I give you the doctor, rosemary, McKenzie, and take it away, yes.

Speaker 3  13:30
And so the only correction I have for you is I'm not actually a doctor, but otherwise, everything else was correct in what you said about me. So I'll go ahead and get started with how hormone monitors are changing the way providers care for women. So I do have to give some disclosures. So I do work for a hormone monitoring company, but I'm not going to talk about any product specific information, and we're going to deliver this information objective, unbiased way, solely for educational purposes. So when is hormone tracking helpful in clinical settings? So we'll go ahead and talk about some settings right now, then we'll go into the research and come back around to case studies. So historically, hormone tracking was mainly looked out for if someone was trying to get pregnant. So are they ovulating or not? Was what hormone tracking was for but we know hormone tracking is important for many different clinical situations. So every woman who has ovaries with fluctuating hormones, it's important to their overall well being and health. So if we think about women who have maybe known or suspected hormonal abnormalities, or thinking PCOS, endometriosis, or maybe it's PMS, PMDD, we can be looking for that underlying hormone pattern to see what is happening. Is it a normal pattern or not? There's a big shift in women transitioning off of birth control, looking for more natural ways, and, of course, supporting their natural fluctuating hormones. So for those women who are transitioning off of birth control, hormone monitoring can be helpful to see where is that return of coordinated hormones? Are they returning in a normal fashion or not? And then, of course, situational times like after a woman has had a baby or after a miscarriage, we're looking again for that return of hormones into a coordinated fashion. Other situations, is maybe a woman who's had a surgical hysterectomy, but retained her ovaries, and so she has fluctuated hormones. She may still be ovulating, but she no longer has a menstrual bleed to track, same with if she's had a uterine ablation. So those times when I like to say we kind of lost our main landmark or light posts that we're usually looking for is that bleed, but the woman likely is still having fluctuating hormones that we can be in tracking. So historically, blood work was seen as the golden standard, and so let's talk about why urinary hormones can be used for tracking women's hormones. So urinary hormones are a reflection of the previous serum levels. So this is a study that you can see that was done in 2015 looking at urinary hormones compared to serum, and there is good correlation. They are, of course, a slight delay, because the urine metabolites are breakdown of that hormone that was in the serum. You can see here in the middle graph, this is the progesterone, top left is LH and the bottom right is the estrogen. And so urine metabolite of estrogen that's typically tracked is E, 3g so you can see this next study that was done looking at specifically. It is a small patient size, but this was using an at home monitor that was tracking urinary metabolites. So this patient was four patients were getting their serum levels drawn and urine metabolites at home throughout the cycle. And we can see here that the conclusion from this study was the area under the curve algorithm that they used for the e2 and progesterone, so serum and then the urine metabolites of E 3g, and PDG, were able to find the transition between the follicular phase into the luteal phase. So finding ovulation and seeing those two phases, when we look at why it's important to track hormones, we want to see that full hormone pattern versus just a blood test as a snapshot in time. And so it tells us what the woman's hormones are right now, but what were they six hours ago yesterday? What are they tomorrow? So if we use an at home urine test, it's a much more user friendly and really more comprehensive, because we're seeing again, that full hormone pattern, not just one simple snapshot in time. Many patients, for various reasons, don't want to get their blood drawn every day or even every other day and not, maybe not even once it cycled. So this is a much more user friendly way to get patients to have continuous data that you can use for your treatment. So when we're looking at a normal urinary metabolite pattern, what we'd expect to see is this black line is the E, 3g or the rising estrogen leading to an ovulation? So you can see that nice, big, robust hill. It then declines around ovulation, and then has a second rise. We want to see coordination between LH and FSH. So these should surge together in a coordinated fashion to trigger ovulation, and then we should see a rise of progesterone afterwards, or the air metabolite of PDG, to confirm it was an ovulatory event. As you can imagine, there's a lot of things that can go wrong. So there can be a mismatch of the hormones, or they can be unbalanced, uncoordinated, some too high, too low. And so that's what we want to be able to see in an ongoing fashion. So we can, with urinary metabolites, track them cycle after cycle, so you can see how a patient is responding maybe to some of the interventions you're doing. So maybe you identified in their PCOS cycles, for example, that they have too high of estrogen in their luteal phase. So you begin treating that, and you can see, am I making progress? So historically, with patients with PCs, typically what we are doing to monitor them was, are their cycles becoming more regular? So were they? You know, they historically were 40 to 60 days. Now they're getting more like 30 to 40. But as you can imagine, that takes a long time to see if you're making the progress you want to see, because you just wait until the next period comes. Yeah. Comes, or you might be doing blood work, but again, you're probably not doing that on an every cycle basis, so maybe after three cycles of data. So when you're doing hormone monitoring in the urinary metabolites, you can see then, have they made any progress in this particular cycle? So an example I'll give is a provider who had a patient testing, and they could see right away that their estrogen levels were really high. So they did an investigation in her lifestyle and found that she was eating a vegan diet with high amounts of soy, and so they adjusted what she was eating, and within three weeks, they could see a change in her urinary metabolite. So some things you can see immediate change. Others, of course, take longer to have that positive change that you want to see. But by remote monitoring, it like this, you can see if they're responding positively or negatively. So we find that patients who are testing at home, they see the results. Think of it kind of like a continuous glucometer. When they eat something, they check their level, they see it spike their blood sugar. It's that immediate feedback to them. Same way when they're testing their urinary metabolites at home, they're able to see okay, so when I follow these interventions and recommendations from my provider, my results are looking better. And then when I fall off the bandwagon and stop doing what I'm supposed to my results become worse again. So it can be two ways. It can be positive reinforcement or even negative reinforcement. So there are several researchers universities that are doing studies on tracking urinary hormones. So you can see here, for example, John Hopkins, University of Melbourne, University of British Columbia and more. And again, this is really closing the gender gap, because we are able to see, for example, how athletes respond to different interventions in their follicular versus their luteal phase. And we know, for example, that the hormones are, in a sense, ever fluctuating, and so it's very hard to do studies without putting this into the equation. And historically, it was very hard to account for the fluctuating hormones, but now we have the ability to track it easily at home, in a way that can make the research studies even more valuable and provide even more data that can be replicated and and, you know, seeing interventions and seeing how patients respond. So there are some studies going on right now about urinary hormones. This one is, this is the pilot that you can look up and read about, but the published study is supposed to be done about May. This researcher is doing a 50 patient three cycles, each analysis of women using urinary hormones. They are tracking their temperature to getting their blood work done, and serial ultrasounds as well. So again, taking those two golden standards of the ultrasounds and serum and using these urinary metabolites to really create a foundation that this can be used for many different things, such as PCOS, studies, athletes, irregular cycles, perimenopause. And so this data is going to be very valuable. We see some already published studies. So this is a study done out of the University of Toronto, and this is women were wearing a and I think it was a 49 participant. It was supposed to be 50, but one dropped out. So 49 participants wearing a Fitbit, they were wearing a continuous glucometer and doing at home urinary hormone metabolite tracking, and you can see a very distinct shift in the glucose values from when the woman was follicular phase versus luteal phase. So again, just showing how every part of a woman's life is different based on how her hormones are and what phase of the cycle she is in.

Speaker 3  23:28
Many times we think of hormone levels from fertility stands. So I think we can't ignore this. We know that there's a lot of fertility challenges. So women who are using a standalone urinary metabolite, such as only tracking LH, it's written as Op, K so ovulation predictor kits, we know that that really does not create the full picture of the hormones. It's tracking one out of the potential four that could be tracked. So just LH does not give us the full hormone pattern, like estrogen, LH, progesterone and FSH, many times there's a barrier because of the cost of blood testing or the time it takes them to get to their blood test, the commute time, time off of work. And of course, it's only a snapshot in time, and we know that the heavy interventions such as IUI and IVF are very costly, and so that's also a barrier to patients. Infertility rates we know are increasing so more and more couples are struggling to conceive, and of course, that has a negative impact on their work situation and impacting other areas of their lives. So there was a pilot done with participants who all qualified to be IVF candidates because they had been trying to conceive for more than one year. Their median age was 34 and they had various diagnoses, so PCOS, dementia, ovarian reserve, endometriosis, hypothalamic amenorrhea are just a few. They had a intake visit with their provider, and then they began hormone monitoring at home. 44% of the participants got pregnant after two months of working with their provider. And if we compare that to other public success rates, we'll call it so patients with PCOS typically have a conception rate around 2025 to 30% if we look at IUI pregnancy rates, it's around 20% and IVF is at 47 and so if we look for hormone tracking after two months, it has a a huge impact on the success rate. And working with a provider, of course, even is just as important. They also found that the patients were very engaged and compliant throughout their treatment, so they were looking forward to a provider looking at their data with them. So I think that holds true for any data that a patient is collecting, whether it's their blood work, their continuous glucometer data, their urinary metabolites, anything that a patient is tracking when they have a provider, then who will look into it, look at it, help them interpret it, and help them make interventions. Are much more compliant with their treatment and book their follow up appointments. So these are just a couple of examples of those patients in that clinic. So on the left you can see patient number one had hypothalamic amenorrhea. And so you can see, just to give you a quick tour of the tracking here, along the bottom is the day of the month, and then the cycle day, and then the data points. The black is the urine metabolite of estrogen, so the E 3g, turquoise is LH. But even without me teaching you that, you can tell that this is not a good scenario. These hormones are not good. They are flatlined. So over the course of treatment with their provider, you can see the before treatment is May, and then their conception cycle here is September. So over the course of months working with their provider, they did end up conceiving on an ovulation induction cycle, but just the drast difference in the hormone patterns is, in and of itself, amazing. Then the patient on the right is a diminished ovarian reserve, complicated by obesity, luteal phase defect and hypothyroidism. This patient was not as consistent with her testing, but even so, you can see that these hormones are not coordinated. We don't see evidence of an LHR trigger and ovulation and changes in progesterone. And then you can see, again, over the course of time, working with the provider, they did Metabolic Nutrition, trulicity, Clomid, HCG, trigger shot and progesterone, and this is her conception cycle. So overall, with this pilot, they found again that 44% of the participants conceived after two months working with the provider. And overall, the patients were very pleased with again, the this pilot and being able to see their data. And in the end, by the 77% of those trying to conceive ended up successfully ovulating. So again, we know that the end goal of conception is important, but getting women to have regular ovulatory cycles is important too. So I think that 77% stands out to me as well. Okay, so let's do a deep dive into how do we interpret hormone patterns. So first weekend, look at, are the hormones coordinated? Do they make sense? Are they balanced? And so again, to give a quick tour, black lines are estrogen metabolites, E, 3g, L, H is the trigger to ovulate, and then the P, G is the rise of progesterone after ovulation. So there's really three questions you can ask yourself, and that's what the next slides are. So are the hormones coordinated? So if we look at this top picture, we see that nice rise of estrogen, it declines and then rises again, whereas in the bottom picture we see there's not really a pattern that makes sense. So the estrogen is not leading up to an LH surge. And so this woman, although she's having bleeding episodes, she, from this data, is not having ovulation. So it's withdrawal bleeds or breakthrough bleeding. And we can see that, you know, a bleeding in of itself, is something we can track, and it is important to track, but it does not mean that the hormones are balanced. We then, of course, can look to see are the hormones within normal reference ranges, and so the urine metabolite values are different than serum. And so, of course, if you're very used to looking at serum levels, this will be kind of like a learning foreign language at first. They may not be very easy to interpret over time, this will become easier. So when you're looking at are they within the reference ranges you're looking to see, are the majority of the data points fitting within the typical curve that we see? So this example on the right is, of course, an abnormal where we see the estrogen or E, 3g is not only high, but it is very fluctuating as well. Of course, we can use the cycle length. So as a woman having a regular cycle that fits between the typical 25 to 35 days, and it should be within a small range. So the variation from one cycle to the next should usually be three days or less. So women might say my cycle is typically 25 to 28 days, or 31 to 33 days. What we don't want to see is someone who's having a cycle that sometimes 25 sometimes 35 and everywhere in between. So although it technically fits within that range of 25 to 35 there's too much variation. Then we can look at each hormone level of one at a time. So this is a LH value. So we know, again, the purpose of LH is to trigger the overage release the egg. So this is an analysis done on 1624 self reported conception cycles. And this is, again, the urine metabolite of tracking in the urine LH. And so we see here that for the bulk of users, we have this very clear rise in LH that goes up and down. Of course, there are some outliers that are in this lighter blue. So there's two questions you can ask yourself when you're looking at is LH normal? So does LH follow a low pattern throughout the whole cycle, except for one to three days. So that means that their spike of LH should occur over one to maybe three days. So this top picture is that pattern that we expect to see here in cycle day 12, whereas these bottom two pictures are two problematic LH patterns. So the bottom left is a patient who has chronically or baseline high LH. So in this pattern, which sometimes we can see with PCOS or other hormone abnormalities, this is desensitizing the ovary. The ovary should get exposed to a high amount of LH ones that triggers it each cycle. So when we have this baseline high Lh is going to make the ovary less responsive when it's supposed to be releasing the egg. And then the example on the right is a very large LH surge. So if you count it out, you could argue that it's five to eight days long, depending on how low you want the LH to go. So this is a very abnormal type of LH it did trigger the ovary at some point within these five days, because her progesterone did go up afterwards. But this is not ideal, and this is not what we want to see in someone who's achieving optimal health. So the three common LH curves that we want to see is either just a traditional spike that goes up, comes down, it may go up, come down a little bit, and then back up, so like a biphasic or it may be more of a plateau where it goes up, stays elevated, for another data point, and then comes down again. We want to see this over the course of one to three days. So Lh is actually the easiest of the four hormones to track. We're moving into one of the most difficult, which is estrogen. So when we're tracking estrogen to urine metabolites, E, 3g, is one of the urinary metabolites, and this is what this graph is going to be depicting. So again, we're back to that 1624

Speaker 3  33:18
self reported conception cycles. We see there is a mean and median line, and then the bulk of users is in the dark gray, and we fade out into the outliers. So with this information in mind, we can ask ourselves three questions with the estrogen pattern, does estrogen rise leading to the LH surge and then decline? So a normal example would be this nice rise here, when there's a lack of rising estrogen, this would make us concerned about follicular development. So are we maturing an egg? Is there uterine lining thickening? This woman still having an ovulatory event right now? But this may not continue if this is not addressed. So this pattern could represent someone who has suppressive or restrictive eating so low calories, lack of dietary fiber and fats. This could be someone who is or exercising, but something is completely suppressing the estrogen and so again, this is not going to be ideal if it's not fixed. The next thing we can look at is, does estrogen decline and have a second rise? So after the ovulatory event, estrogen should take kind of the back seat. Progesterone should become the dominant hormone, but there still should be some estrogen in response to that corpus luteum formation. So when we see no estrogen at all, this is making us concerned that, did the woman ovulate at all? Did she release the egg? So of course, we can look at progesterone, so we can help correlate those together, but when we see more of like an inconclusive pattern like this one, then it makes us concerned that the woman again, have such a poor egg quality that the corpus luteum is very sub optimal. Or is this representing a luteinized, unruptured follicle or a partial rupture? What has happened that these, again, hormones are not ideal, and finally, with estrogen, it should be a, as I like to call, large hill, and then a small hill. So in that pattern, big estrogen, then small estrogen, when it is similar to each other in the follicular and the luteal or reverse such as this bottom example. This is a hormone abnormality. So you're if you've identified an issue with the estrogen, it's lacking in the follicular and it's too much in the luteal. So a mismatch here. Many of these patients have symptoms. So they can have heavy periods, they can have PMS symptoms, but they will usually have something that's pointing you towards this. But I like to say this is a good example where a single blood test would not identify the we'll say how big this problem is. You might find that on one day the estrogen is too high, but you don't know that every day it is high. Or if you're doing another type of test, test, like a duct complete, for example, that's typically timed seven days after ovulation, that particular day that might not be their highest estrogen, and it also, again, is not reflecting the full luteal phase. So continuous testing like this can really identify problems. This patient, in particular, she had very high prolactin levels outside of pregnancy, outside of breastfeeding, and so with her provider, she was able to begin treatment to manage that, lowering the estrogen level of getting it to be much more balanced. And the exciting news is this patient was able to do that work while she was engaged. She then got married. Within three cycles, was able to conceive. So I think that's one of the reasons why I'm so passionate about this data, is we can do a lot of work in preparation for conception or to really improve people's quality of life, because this patient did have PMS, symptoms and heavy periods. Next, we move into progesterone patterns, or PDG, the urine metabolite. So again, same 1600 patients looking at the mean and median line, and we see this nice bell curve of progesterone. Now these patients have conceived. So if you start looking at about, you know, 11 to 13 days after their LH surge, most in a non conception cycle, their progesterone would be dropping. But these patients have conceived. So in the progesterone pattern, we want to see, do we have a good amount of progesterone? So is it within the reference range, and is it higher than estrogen? So a quick way to do an assessment on that estrogen versus progesterone, is progesterone should be much bigger on the graph than estrogen when they are nearly on top of each other. That is a problem. It's either too high of estrogen, too low progesterone, or sometimes you can have both, where they're actually in a reverse pattern. So again, a quick assessment of progesterone. You can do is, is it a nice, big bell curve? Is it higher than estrogen? And of course, you can go back to this picture here and look within the reference ranges. We also know that progesterone is what helps create that luteal phase, because of the corpus luteum formation once a follicle has ruptured and released the egg. And so a normal luteal phase length should be between 11 and 16 days. Implantation tends to for most women, happen at about seven to 10 days after ovulation. So when you calculate a luteal phase that's less than 11 days, it does put the woman at risk for early miscarriages and failed implantation. And again, if we have this lack of progesterone, these patients typically are experiencing symptoms. For an example of this picture here, this estrogen is too high, this progesterone is not ideal. So again, this patient may be experiencing PMS, symptoms, heavy periods, or do healthy sleeping or something happening in her luteal phase. FSH, is, we'll say, the last hormone to the party. It's one. It's becoming really popular now to be tracked in urinary metabolites, but there is less information on it, so you'll see here. This analysis is only on about 300 patients. So if we're looking at conception cycles, there's, of course, more an ideal levels of FSH. FSH can be very helpful to track in, of course, situations outside of trying to conceive. Be helpful for perimenopausal patients. So tracking that transition and as well as hormone abnormalities such as peace to us. And I'll show you a chart example of that right here. When we are looking for an ovulatory event, we should see nice alleged FSH surge together when we're missing that FSH, it does point us in the direction of this may be a failed ovulation. So this woman is trying to ovulate, but it does not respond. And I'll show you this woman's full chart in a moment. So the first thing you can look at with FSH is, do you see LH and FSH surging together? Next we can assess the ovarian function at the beginning of the cycle, looking at that FSH. So we expect a small change in FSH to recruit the next follicle. But when we have really high FSH levels, that can indicate diminished ovarian reserve or perimenopause, and we can use that in conjunction with the rest of the data to really see where these women are. Of course, if we see FSH and an ongoing elevated pattern, this really points us to either perimenopause or a big problem so ovarian insufficiency or diminished ovarian reserve. Again, problems like that. We can also see it with other situations that are more rare, such as women who are on chemotherapy or drugs that are causing these elevated levels. So what I'd like to show you is now case studies. So this is a patient with PCOS and irregular cycles. She does happen to be trying to conceive, but that doesn't really you know, this could be just a woman trying to manage her PCOS. So she's been trying to conceive for over a year. She has known that she's had PCOS since age 18. She's now 26 she reports history of irregular cycles varying between 31 to 52 days. About a year ago, she got her cycles more regulated, but they're back to irregular again.

Speaker 3  41:30
So in her first cycle that she was tracking, we can see, in general, her hormones don't look too bad. And what I mean by that is she has, you know, rising estrogen, it does decline, per se. It does have an LH surge, FSH surge. She does have changing progesterone, but she has what I consider a warning sign that something is not going well, and that is her estrogen is not perfectly timed with or coordinated with the LH surge. It doesn't reach its climax at the right time, and then it declines, but it does not stay lower than her follicular so she does have that kind of reverse pattern that we talked about. So this is, again, what I consider a warning sign, and in this patient's case, unfortunately, it got worse instead of getting better, and she moved into this cycle. So this patient did have a long cycle, but this is there's much more going on here under the surface than just a long cycle. She had what looked like a coordinated, normal pattern towards ovulation. She had rising estrogen, an LH surge, but unfortunately, her body did not respond to this LH surge or this trigger. So this represents a non ovulatory LH surge, where the body is trying to ovulate and fails, and then it tries again. So we have a secondary rise of estrogen, and then we get a second LH surge. And this is the event that actually triggered ovulation, and I know that because her progesterone then went up. So if we think about this from a clinician standpoint, you have a patient tracking to again, try to manage her PCOS, and you say to them, I want you to do blood work or do a Dutch complete seven days after ovulation, she would have found this LH surge, counted out the days and done the blood test. The results would have come back, and it would have said she didn't ovulate. Her progesterone would be low. The dust, complete, may not be very useful data either, because it's not actually her luteal phase, when, in actuality, the timing of that test should have been way back here about cycle day, you know, 37 instead. So the timing of this test would have been off from a patient situation, if we think about her, you know, trying to manage her PCOS, she's trying to conceive, she would have thought she ovulated here, likely time to intercourse. Well, around that attempt at ovulation, if she would have stopped testing and just waited and then taken a pregnancy test, she would have been very frustrated when the test was negative, but she also was not getting a period, that would be very confusing to a patient, when, in actuality, when she's testing with this amount of detail, we can see clearly what happened is kind of like a stutter step, and still not ideal. This patient could have conceived. We're not saying that she couldn't she could have conceived here, but it's, again, not optimized, not ideal. Okay? Next case study is a patient with regular cycles, but overall the hormone levels are low. So if we think about how patients can progress through time, obviously hormones fluctuate and their situations change. So this patient was actively trying to avoid a pregnancy after having a baby, and then now she's trying to conceive again. And so she has one pregnancy, one baby. Baby was born December of 21 her BMI, you can see, is 33.6 she does report being heavier than what she was before, and she is still actively breastfeeding, but she has had 10 cycles since her cycles return. So she's, you know, two years postpartum. She's had plenty of cycles that are all regular, but she reported being concerned about her hormone data changing. And so I want to show you what her hormone data did look like at first. So this is October, and you can see that it looks pretty good. Estrogens rising declines, has a second hill. She does have changes in her progesterone her progesterone levels overall are low and not ideal, but she this looks pretty good. Then she started being concerned about her data, and this is what it flipped to. So we can see now she has minimal estrogen changes leading to her LH surge, her levels after ovulation are even worse than what they were before, and so we can see a distinct change in her data from October to now June. So this would prompt you, if the patient came to you and said, I'm concerned about my hormone levels not being ideal, or they've changed something like that, this really would show us that there is work to be done if we're trying to optimize this woman's hormone, especially if she's about to try to conceive. So this might weren't, again, an investigation to find out, is she now maybe really restrictive eating or removed all the fat from her diet because she's trying to lose some of that baby weight, because her BMI is 33.5 so really figuring out, you know what is happening in her situation, and may help you to treat her faster. Some other situations that you might find is overall low hormones. So this is an example where, again, many of these are trying to conceive examples, but this could be just the one who's trying to optimize her hormones, and we see overall very low ongoing, low estrogen and low progesterone. And so again, this woman is likely not feeling well, especially in that luteal phase when we're supposed to see nice, big, robust progesterone, and she does not have it. This is, again, that warning sign of that too high of estrogen in that luteal phase, and this is showing that sub optimal ovulation, where we're seeing, again, too short of a luteal phase progesterone is not really ideal. It did shoot up. So if you did your blood work right here, again seven days after ovulation, this blood test right here might look like her progesterone looks just fine, but in actuality, it really is only one day that it was in ideal ranges. The rest of the data points are really too low. So what I like to spend the rest of our time is looking at the transition into perimenopause and how hormone tracking can be very helpful for this time frame. We know there are many women in this time frame, and they can be in perimenopause for, you know, two years, four years, six years, 10 years, and often they are experiencing symptoms that they come to a provider for. So if we look at, for example, the revised drug criteria that's, you know, a published article that you can look at, looking to stage a woman throughout her transition. I love and hate the straw criteria, because I like how it's standardized, but it's not specific enough to truly help women to see, you know, where they are within their transition. So, for example, we see that the blood work that you might do, it says FSH is variable in early transition, then it might be high, but then it goes back to variable. And so it can be difficult to see which phase are they really in with just FSH values. For an example, you can, of course, look at the woman's cycle changes, but those two data points are really all that's currently given on the struct criteria. If we look at it, you know another way we can see that the wound may start to see slight cycle changes, but we can see normal to variable FSH. Then we look in the next phase again, variable FSH, cycles variable, they're sounding very similar to each other, and then we finally get to high FSH, and then the woman stops having her period. So there's not really enough data currently to help women in this perimenopausal transition. So there is a graph here from Dr Stephanie Hayes, and this graph that she created is also on another webinar of PMI, if you're wanting to listen to it in more detail. But she really shows how the FSH on its own is really not enough. Tracking estradiol is as very important as well. But again, estradiol in blood, if, unless you're doing every cycle, may not be showing you everything that you want, so that your neuro metabolites are very helpful. So if you think about a woman who's transitioning, she's in her fertile years, the values are within normal range. Then we start moving into early perimenopause, and we see the FSH levels might be trending a little higher, the estrogen might be trending a little higher, but then we start getting this suppression of the FSH because of very high estrogen levels, and so you may not see the FSH high, or they may not be helping you to see that they're now, you know, transitioning further and further, until you finally get to the phase where the FSH is rising significantly and the estrogen starts to decline. But what's helpful to understand here is you might catch a patient that just comes to you, and you test and you don't know if they're in this phase over here, where the FSH is slightly elevated, the estrogen is kind of middle of the road, or are they at this crossroads? So it's very helpful to have additional data. So if we look at again, urinary metabolites, we can see here, this is a 42 female. She has irregular cycles, and she's on her way into transitioning to menopause. So what we can see here is she has ongoing elevated FSH levels that sees the gold color here, and she's tracking it, you know, every few days, and then started to space it out. You You can see she's actually on cycle day 311 when this chart ends. So she is two months away from the clinical diagnosis of menopause if she does not get another period. But the ongoing data actually helps us to see the dysfunction, the normal physiological dysfunction that's starting to happen, high FSH, her LH, is no longer trigger an ovulation coordinated is just ongoing elevated, and she has low estrogen.

Speaker 3  51:20
But we can see uh. Now this is a biologically older woman. She actually has much different hormone patterns. So this is where I'm trying to prove the point of just looking at one blood test will not tell you everything about what's happening on the hormonal level. So you see this one again, biologically older. She's 49 but her pattern is much different. She has this high fluctuating estrogen and not coordinated. We're not seeing an LH surge. We're not seeing changes in progesterone. So a patient that has this high fluctuating estrogen, she may be having significant symptoms, or someone with very low estrogen may be having significant symptoms. And so I suspect how you're going to treat those patterns are going to be different based on what you're seeing. We also know women as they age, especially throughout that perimenopausal transition. You can see here the negative three stage, negative two mix, negative one plus one, their progesterone levels are dropping. So it's one of the first hormones that we see that significant decline in. And so many of these women can benefit from progesterone supplementation, and I'm not going to tell you which way to do it, but I'll just show you that the hormone tracking can actually show you that sign that they have that really low progesterone levels. So here's an example where the woman had a very late LH surge, and then you see her progesterone levels start to change. So if you see these levels cycle after cycle with low progesterone a short luteal phase, this is someone who might benefit from what I like to call a cooperative HRT, where the progesterone is given after the LH surge to support her natural process of ovulating. So I know many clinicians do like cyclical progesterone or daily progesterone, but really timing it up after ovulatory events is going to support the process that's already occurring. And we know women in perimenopause can have an ovulatory event and then an an ovulator event and go back and forth. And so helping them to time up their HRT can make it to be even more effective and help the patient to feel even better, versus just jumping right to, let's say daily or even the time like cycle day 15 through 28 something like that. If the woman is still having events triggering ovulation, it'd be much better to time it up. This is another example of that low progesterone. So this woman's 52 she is still having coordinated hormones, and we see this time and time and again. You can't only look at the biological age. This woman has changing estrogen towards ovulation and LH surge, and then her progesterone changes. But this progesterone is very weak. It's very low and a short luteal phase. And again, this is an example of a woman that would likely benefit from a timed progesterone supplementation. Once a woman gets into a pattern that is no longer coordinated. So this woman here, she's 50. It's having an ambulatory event, you know, it's no longer coordinated with anything. Now, this might be where the patient benefits from more of a daily dosing. Or you could, of course, try the cyclical 15 days start on Secondly, 15 through 28 something like that. But until the woman gets to where she's no longer having her own coordination, these women may do better with the cooperative HRT. And of course, we see many different things that can happen in the perimenopausal transition. So more studies need to happen to see Are there patterns that keep recurring now that we have this much detail on women's hormones, in these urinary metabolites, we'll really be able to, again, get more research done, really see what's helping women in the best way. And really, I'm excited to be a part of this, because we are seeing just so many providers actively engage wanting to see this data, and are doing amazing work for these patients. And this is just an example of same age as some of the patients we already seen, but again, this is a much different pattern. She has overall estrogen levels that are no longer coordinated, but also not high. She's more of a low pattern. So you may want to treat this differently, so that is the end of the content. Love to take anyone's questions. I should have asked if you wanted to interrupt during but I'll take anybody's questions now. I

Unknown Speaker  56:03
All right, go ahead morning.

Speaker 1  56:06
So for somebody up in my age bracket, sad and deep, okay, and so, obviously, I'm not cycling any longer. How do you have testing for, you know, like seeing whether or not there's issues and any intervention,

Speaker 3  56:30
sure. So you're saying is you're tracking urinary metabolites of hormones helpful with someone who is fully established as postmenopausal. Am I understanding correctly? Yes. So currently, that's where there's the least amount of data. So currently, what I see happening is women who are within two years of their official diagnosis of menopause. So if we think up to three years past the last period, that's where I see it being used. There are some clinicians who are, I would say, are experimenting to see, you know, this woman has symptoms that are not really explained. Are they having exposures to something that's affecting their hormone values in another way? So if we think about, you know, high amounts of adipose tissue or exposures things like that. But again, it's the least amount of information currently is available on that category. Some would argue, can it be used to see, like, am I achieving what I want with my HRT? So I'll just explain that, because I'm sure people have questions there currently urinary metabolites cannot be used to calculate backwards, like a serum level. And so you can't look at someone's urinary metabolite and say, Okay, well, that's 20, so then their serum progesterone must be 30. And so that's what I wanted to achieve. So it's much more of a symptom management and then seeing have I achieved the change in the data that I wanted. So let me just show you an example. So let's say it's a patient with the hormones that look like this, and so you begin your interventions. And you know, I see a lot of providers doing lifestyle modifications, supplements, and then starting, for example, this woman may get put on a daily progesterone so if a patient's taking oral, vaginal, injectable progesterone, those will cause the serum levels to significantly increase, which then cause the urinary metabolites to max out at the top of the scale, usually at 30. So the progesterone would be maxed out. But what you would be looking for is not the high progesterone. What you'd be looking for is, am I balancing out this estrogen in the way that I want so topical, like an estradiol patch or progesterone creams, anything that's absorbed through the skin, we see only a slight change in the urinary metabolism, or, sorry, a slight change in the serum, which then only causes a slight change in the urinary metabolites. And so you can track women's underlying pattern even while they're on, let's say an Estro patch or a progesterone cream, something like that. Thank you,

Speaker 2  59:06
Rosemary. Is it accurate to say that this is a more, I guess, intricate way of doing cycle mapping, because in cycle mapping, I think you only sample like 11 times in a month, but this one, as you could see, and that's also another question. So for every day, this patient will be getting a sample daily, and I'm sure there will be, I mean, in relation to costing, you will be dispensing a a wand, I think that's what you're you're using, yep, right? A wand

Speaker 3  59:39
per test. And so they collect a first morning urine sample, they dip a wand, and then they insert it into the machine to read it. So it's an at home test. The cost for like three months of monitoring nearly every day runs about the same as one cycle mapping, and so you can get three months of data compared to just one. And as you mentioned, the benefit is, not only that you get more data points, because you can space these out. So you know, a patient could choose to test, let's say every other day, to reduce the cost, but with the let's say you were talking about like a cycle mapping of some kind, the patients don't really get to choose what day they're testing. It's already set up for them ahead of time, and they're told when to test. They dip and then they may,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:28
yeah, oh, you got muted. It was

Bill Clearfield  1:00:31
Mary. That was me again.

Speaker 3  1:00:37
Oh, you did okay. Can you hear me again? Yeah. Okay, so for a like a cycle mapping that a patient mails their samples, and then they wait for the results. You're not seeing in real time, and the patient's not getting to choose what day they're testing. So let's say a patient has a abnormal cycle in PCOS, you wouldn't know that as they're testing, then you mail it in, then you wait for the results to come back with this because you can see it in real time. You can see the progression, and you can see, oh, we need to test more often, or we can test less often. So it's much more user friendly and provider friendly than a cycle mapping. It doesn't so it replaces cycle mapping very well. What it does not replace is, if you're looking for something more specific that obviously this is not available for, like, if you need testosterone, or the, of course, any of the androgens that's not available currently. Or if you're looking for like, metabolic pathways, so someone's cortisol, their adrenal function, and things like that, that you might need additional testing. But yes, this replaces cycle mapping very well.

Speaker 2  1:01:43
So you don't request for like, the whole day most, most you're showing this for demo purposes, right? It's not like every day we instruct. I mean, I do get the instruction of trying to catch ovulation. Maybe that's something that you will do in succession, but, yeah, it's not something that's a standard for clinicians to do for their patients

Speaker 3  1:02:04
so they can a clinician could tell the patient, I want you to test every other day, or I want you to do every three days. And then you can decide with that amount of information, so maybe you do every every other day for three weeks on a per menopausal patient, you're like, Okay, your pattern has not changed over the last three weeks, I can see what's been happening, and that's plenty of data. And so some clinicians will have the patient then begin an intervention, and they may continue to test during the intervention, or they pause testing and then they bring it back out if now there's a change. So I see that be done with they put them on a type of HRT the patient's doing well, they stopped testing. Now we're six months down the road, a year down the road, the patient says, My symptoms are back. You know what? Why is this happening? They get testing again. They see, oh, wow. Like the complete change. Maybe the her hormones looked something like, we'll say, like this one, and now they look like, flat lined, you know completely different pattern, and so it can help to explain why the patient's not responding as well as they used to.

Speaker 2  1:03:09
What cases do you recommend that they do successive monitoring, other than ovulation, trying to catch ovulation? Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:03:19
so if you have a known abnormalities. So like someone with that reverse pattern of estrogen, for example, we want to keep testing until we get that balanced. Once we get them to an optimized state, then they may go on like that for years and be fine until a situation changes. Now they're postpartum or now they're perimenopausal, and then they can begin testing again. So situations like that, where you're watching to see an improvement, or if you have someone who, again, is in a change situation. And of course, those actively trying to conceive or are testing from cycle to cycle, go

Speaker 2  1:03:56
ahead. Dr Bill, I have some I'm going to dig up the email question.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:00
You know, it's, I try to keep things simple, and this seems to make things more complicated.

Speaker 3  1:04:07
Yes, I, I will, I will challenge you on that. It's simpler because they can do the testing at home. It makes it more complicated because it makes it personalized, which we know this is, this is what a patient obviously wants and deserves. And so we're able to take this data and really personalize what they are doing. So of course, I'm not telling you how to treat someone's, let's say, high fluctuating estrogen, but you'd be able to see is what I'm recommending actually doing the changes I want. And if they're not, then we need to modify it. And, you know, it's another I like to say that we're taking the patient from like a 2d now we're to like a three or a 4d the way that we're looking at their hormones.

Speaker 5  1:04:53
I have a question. I think I have a perfect candidate for that, but I see what you think. I just saw a lady today who came to see me as a primary doctor. She's 28 years old. She used to be on birth control that she stopped in in February, and ever since February, she never, she haven't gotten her period back. I did briefly see her labs. This that she done in May, there were conventional labs, not urinary metabolites. So estrogen was, I think was like total estrogen was like 86 testosterone was 43 I think progesterone was 1.1 but I haven't She haven't had any testing done since she had went to see her gynecologist. They said, Okay, just wait a little bit see what happens. She has terrible acne. So it's obviously she needs more than just wait a little bit. So I think that this is actually very interesting. It was a perfect timing. So it is perfect timing. So what are your thoughts on that? Yeah, I

Speaker 3  1:06:00
think she would be a perfect candidate, because she can, you know, begin to test immediately. You can start an intervention with her to try to manage the abnormalities in her hormones that you already know, and then you can watch as it progresses. I would say it's not normal for her not to have a return of her cycles in 10 months, right?

Speaker 5  1:06:20
Yeah, she has no other issues. Like, there's no diabetes, no cholesterol. Like, she's overall pretty healthy lady. Never had any miscarriages or pregnancies. So And

Speaker 3  1:06:31
do you know what she started the birth control for? Sometimes that can be a very helpful cue, unless they only took it for contraceptives, but if they took it for heavy, painful periods, irregular cycles, I

Speaker 5  1:06:43
believe it was only for contraceptives. And I think she was told that she has polycystic ovarian syndrome, that's

Speaker 3  1:06:50
what I suspected based on what you had shared. So for her, she is in a current very unmanaged PCs picture, where she is in complete amenorrhea for now 10 months, and so it's probably going to be, you know, quite a lot of work to manage that, but we don't know how resistant of a form she has until we start any types of interventions. But what will be really nice for you to see is, again, I've actually seen women who are in that amenorrhea state, and then as we start treating them sometimes, they can go from, let me see, if I have a good example here, they will be like, flat lined, so, you know, something like this. But even worse, flat lined, then they can go into, actually, like, really high estrogen that's trying to be coordinated with something, but the LH hasn't caught on yet. So you can actually watch as like, the pieces start to come together. So you start seeing, like, four.

Speaker 5  1:07:44
Also, the FL was 4.4 so kind of, like, not really consistent, yeah, yeah. And you can really say, or you say it was random, random testing, so it's just

Speaker 3  1:07:55
random, yeah. So she's, I mean, we know a lot of problems with her data, just based on what you shared with me. So it'd be very interesting to get her testing, but she would be a candidate to do like the every other day testing, because we don't know how many weeks or months it's gonna take her to then have a coordinated hormone pattern to trigger ovulation, then have high progesterone. But she would be a perfect candidate to get started. So

Speaker 5  1:08:22
I'll, I'll just need some advice how to get her a test and I which would be the best one. I don't know if you can do it or during this conversation, or we can talk about

Speaker 3  1:08:33
it. Yeah, as soon as the educational piece is over, we can discuss it. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:40
Okay, just for everyone's information, the link for the cat, for the credits is in the chat, okay, and that'll be on on the next they're they're always on the emails also, okay, so that you get every week. So sorry to interrupt those, man. Yeah, no problem. All right. So let me see if I have this straight. This is a machine, right? I call some place and I order this machine, and it comes, or do I have them in the in my office? And I say, Here, do this? How to walk me? Because I'm old.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:14
Imagine doctor bill is having men seat menstruation.

Speaker 3  1:09:17
Yeah, he needs a track. So, a patient can actually purchase this themselves. It is an FDA cleared device that does not have to be prescribed, written or ordered for the patient. They can buy it themselves. They go on the website, they buy it, they buy the analyzer, which is a one time purchase, and then they buy ones. And the wands are a one like one wand does one mornings test, so first morning urine, and it can track up to three metabolites at once. So estrogen, LA, 10, progesterone, are all in one test. So one wand three hormones if they want. FSH, it's a separate wand currently, and so the patient gets it in the mail, they can start testing immediately. They don't have to wait till like the start of the next cycle or a certain phase of the cycle. They just start testing immediately. The only days they are not advised to test is while they're on their heavy days of their bleeding their period. Otherwise, they start testing. They can see the data graphed out for them in the app, and then the provider has access to a HIPAA compliant dashboard where they can see the data in real time. So maybe I was seeing this patient in I was about to have a visit with her. I could pull open the data, view it all, and I'd even see this morning's results, and then I could review that with the patient during their visit, and of course, be looking at it at any point that I need to be checking in. Is that clear? So

Bill Clearfield  1:10:47
would you do this whole thing before you would advise somebody on anything? Or do you, would you go through and you know, as it's going on after 14 days, you see that the progesterone is not moving at all.

Speaker 3  1:11:00
Yeah. So it really depends on what I'm looking for. So sometimes there can be, you know, only a week's worth of data, and it's enough to say this is a problem, whereas someone else, I need a baseline. So what's really great about this is you can actually have a patient be testing before you see them. So you know, many providers have a time period before they see their patient. So maybe they book a point with you in three weeks. Well, on their registration form, they say they have long, irregular cycles, or they have what seems like hormonal acne, or, you know, they say something that triggers, oh, I'm going to want hormone testing on them. They can already start testing. You can before you even see them for a visit. You can recommend go to get this testing done. I'll see you in three weeks, and then we can look at the data then, so we can be obtaining very valuable data even before their visit.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:51
Okay, all right. So can you walk us through this? So this one that you have on the screen here. So what do we do? What do we do with this? I mean, yeah, so what are you doing?

Speaker 3  1:12:04
Carol, where are you? There's a lot of things that we can do with this, so I'm not going to tell you exactly how to treat the patient while telling I'll tell you that this is someone who I'd want to know. What is her exercise? What is her diet, what is her lifestyle? What? What is her sleeping patterns? Does she have high cortisol? Does she have that's, you know, robbing her body of her hormones. If we do all this workup and we find that there's really, will say, No problem area, then this may be simply representing lowering hormones of perimenopause. So this patient may be having an earlier transition, but she's actively trying to conceive. So if she wants to conceive, then we're going to have to boost her hormones up. And there's lots of different ways that we could do that, but now, you know what we have to do. We don't see a problem that we have to fix first. We now are just going to be targeting and improving the hormones themselves. So I've seen providers do things like post peak progesterone. So they're taking bio identical progesterone. This patient may need things like DHEA down the road, ovulation induction. You know, there's lots of interventions that we could do, but this data is telling us that we have to do a deep dive to figure out if there's a cause of low hormones. If there's not, then we can start trying to target and just boosting these hormones so she can conceive.

Speaker 2  1:13:25
That's actually what I wanted to do with this patient. I mean, just looking at the the spike, the LH here, and then there's, you don't get that progesterone increase that you're seeing. So is it safe to say that you start your oral progesterone? Let's say on day 13,

Speaker 3  1:13:41
moving forward on which day, sorry, on

Speaker 2  1:13:45
day 1313, or 14, you can start your or progesterone already moving forward to increase that progesterone level. I mean is that? Is that a good intervention for this case? I

Speaker 3  1:13:58
would actually argue, no, I would start it on cycle day, if she's having her trigger here on cycle day 1819, a time. That's

Speaker 2  1:14:07
the one I want to see. I thought I was reading at the bottom 13. Sorry,

Speaker 3  1:14:10
the date September 13. Yeah. So I would start it on September, like 16, once the LH search has happened and then her progesterone is on her own, should be rising, because the process of ovulation has occurred, and now we'd be supporting what her body's already doing. So yes, she would be a perfect candidate for a bio identical progesterone starting about three days after her LH search.

Speaker 2  1:14:38
Yeah, because in a clinical practice, we kind of just blindly do this. As you can see. Now, you have an actual, exact approach when you're going to introduce that progesterone and helping this patient to if you want to make her ovulate or have a good amount of progesterone the luteal phase. Yes, so, but yeah. Anyway, I actually saw this test, and what attracted me to this was actually more of the pricing. Because when I do, I'm always so tempted to do cycle mapping on patients, especially with irregular periods, and just trying to find out what's going on with them. But if you compare the price, maybe later on, you'll discuss that, that a cycle map is very expensive compared to the amount that you will, I guess, spend on the ones here to just get a good idea of how the cycle would look like, versus the urine metabolites, though you would notice that it's not offering us the same results of What, let's say, a common urinary metabolism, metabolism test would would provide like, two Oh H, 408, 16, oh H is not here, but still, this is something of a guy that clinically still has bearing

Speaker 3  1:15:55
yes and again. It can help you to then decide, like, I want to do more of those tests, or I need to do more of those tests, or you can wait. So I think not only does it replace the cycle mapping, but then it helps you to be, you know, the expensive test that you do want to do, you can make it be more effective and accurate and useful for you.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:19
Can you do you have a testosterone wand here

Speaker 3  1:16:21
too? Unfortunately, not. But we are asking for feedback. If that's something that you would want. We want to know how often would you want testosterone checked? You know, urinary metabolites, the benefit to them, as you can do them very often. But would you want testosterone more than once a cycle, multiple times, just, you know, here and there. What would be your request for that?

Bill Clearfield  1:16:48
I don't know. Does it? Does it does testosterone cycle.

Speaker 3  1:16:55
So that is, you know, if a patient like PCOS, would you want it more often because you suspect a problem with their testosterone. Can

Bill Clearfield  1:17:07
you go back to the PCOS slide? Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:17:09
the which one I actually showed lots. But do you mean the one

Bill Clearfield  1:17:16
show me where nobody's touched it yet and they just show up, and

Speaker 3  1:17:19
this is the one where they have the non ovulatory LH surge, but this is her pre cycle. But I will tell you that we actually have found multiple variations of PCOS. So we all knew that, you know, there's multiple presentations of PCOS, but even the hormonal data themselves, we've seen some patients with PCOS have really high estrogen. Some have really suppressed, and then, you know, they, takes them 30 days, and then they finally have an estrogen rise. And then some, we see this pattern here where it's this reversed. And so even that is something super fascinating that, again, we've never had this much detail on someone's hormones with PCOS to even be able to identify that.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:04
Okay, so

Bill Clearfield  1:18:07
go ahead, doctor, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:18:09
I'm curious, because you're saying that the patient can actually buy this themselves, but from the sound of it, they need interpretation from a provider, so why not just make it exclusively be distributed by provider and some let's not subject these patients to misinterpretations if they going to try to interpret it on their own.

Speaker 3  1:18:34
Sure. So the Well, should we stop the recording so I can talk about some specifics.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:42
Yeah, okay, yeah, we can do that. Okay, hang on, all right. Well, thank you so much, and it's been great. Yes, thank

Unknown Speaker  1:18:48
you. And I do see a request for DHEA too.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:52
You're, you're, you're on, you're, we're off, we're off, off recording.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:59
You can, okay,

Speaker 3  1:19:01
yes, yes, yes. Okay, so I wanted to show you some give me one second here. Well, we actually, if you're okay, I'll go in order of what I plan to talk about, and then I'll answer anyone's questions. So for anyone in this session who would like to track hormones. If this is something that you do and want a sample, we are willing to offer you a sample. If you scan the QR code and book a meeting with our team, we'll send you a sample, which is the analyzer in a pack of wants. Once you scan the QR code and sign up, we'll also give you access to the provider dashboard, the patient discount code in our library of resources. I saw someone in the chat ask if this is UVA, this is Mira, and Mira uses the it's the only solution on the market that actually uses immunofluorescent technology, which is what laboratories use. So any other solution on the market, such as the competitors, of which, again, they're not direct to competitors, but UVA and neato prove clear blue LH test strip. They're all using nano gold technology, and we use immuno fluorescent, which does have an increased cost, but it's less than so for three months of data. For example, it is about $330 to get the analyzer in three boxes of ones. So for one specialized test that you may be doing currently, you can get three months of data, and that's if they're testing nearly every day. So that's 20 tests per cycle. So they don't test during their period, so they're testing during the other days. But you can easily reduce that cost down even more. If you have them testing in an every other day pattern, or have them test for a few cycles, take a break and then pick it back up, you can have this be much cheaper. Many providers have their patients test, for example, every other day in the luteal phase, because at that point, we've already found the trigger to ovulate. We now know what phase they're in. Now we just want to see that coordination between the two hormones, estrogen and progesterone, and so you can see the bulk of data you want to see, even within every other day pattern. So I'll just quick show you an example of that. Give me one second. So back up to this woman here. So let's say she was skipping some of her tests. So every other day here she's skipping, I would still be able to see she has low progesterone. I would still be able to see that that amount, with that amount of tests, there's a problem there. So that's an example of how you can reduce the cost for a patient. So again, to summarize this slide, if anyone is interested in learning more specific information from me and my team, you can scan the QR code sign up to get a sample. That sample can be used on your patient. It can be used on yourself, a staff member at your office, whoever wants to test this out, though, we will send you the analyzer and a pack of ones. We'll check in with you to make sure you've received the sample, make sure you don't have any questions. And then we also will ask you if you want any of our partnership options, which is how you can get this cheaper for your patient. So someone was asking me, why don't we just have providers get this? We do have options for that, if you'd like. So the patient discount code is where you just simply tell your patient, I think you should test Mira. Here's the discount code. They go buy it. You can just have just simply the discount code. Or if you want to make commission on that, you're welcome to sign up for our affiliate partnership. You receive up to 17% commission based on the purchase price. You can also order for your patient, so if you want to do it like more similar to another test, where you just you go on the website, you buy it for them. You can do drop shipping, or you can buy in bulk and have some in your office. And for any of those options, we are running a promotion until the end of the year with higher discount codes for the holidays. So that is how you get the device, and the different partnership options, questions about those things specifically,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:10
it's very exciting, for sure, I'm ordering one.

Speaker 3  1:23:15
And so for you, if you want that sample that we send you, you can choose to give it to that patient that you were discussing,

Speaker 5  1:23:21
okay, that I think that's that will be, that will be my best spent,

Speaker 3  1:23:26
yes, yes. And then my team can walk you through how to use the dashboard, how to view the data, and all those things.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:35
That was the question. I mean, do you have some backup there so that when I get you know this grand now, what do I do with it? What

Speaker 3  1:23:47
do I do with all this information? Yes, so I'll go ahead and show you our provider website. This is where, once you meet with us, we give you access to this website, but you're welcome to have it right now if you'd like. So there's a page about becoming a partner. There's the use cases. So this explains if you're using it for infertility care or perimenopause hormone imbalances or fertility tracking. We also have a resource tab with that research in it, the interpretation Guide, which I went over a lot of that today, frequently asked questions. And then we have a contact support button. So if you're stuck on something like how to sign up for affiliate or your discount code, something like that, my partner Silva can help you. You can book a meeting with her with this link or email her. And then, if it's educational or clinical based, then you can again email me or book a meeting with me. We offer these complimentary at any point in your, you know, in, we'll say integrative, into your practice transition. So I'll put that right in the chat that website. Okay,

Speaker 2  1:24:52
I think a lot of infertility practices really will benefit from this. This is definitely going to kind of guide them through it. I'm not, I don't know my 50 year old who wants to get pregnant, but I'm talking about the younger ones who probably wants to catch it at the right time, right?

Speaker 3  1:25:08
Yeah. I mean, fertility was our first and main use case, and it has really, you know, someone mentioned, why don't we only have providers? Have this our direct to consumer. 95% of them are actively trying to conceive, and so for them, Tammy intercourse correctly, seeing if they are ovulating. The our founder that created this, she was frustrated by the process of really being blinded to her own data. She didn't know, you know, what was happening with her blood tests, and that was the only option at that point. And so she really wanted patients to be able to track their own data. So she developed this ability to track your inner hormones in your home. Wow. And I did, for those who are still here and listening and already know they want to have a sample, I did put the straight form that you can go and fill out just to receive the sample. It'll be the fastest. So fill out the in the chat box, there's a form. Click on it, fill out the form to receive the sample that way. By tomorrow, my team will already email you your dashboard and discount codes, so you'll have them immediately. For those who are ready to get started right away, will the ones expire? The ones do have a shelf life. They expire in in the US, we do ship internationally. So the US, because the distribution center gets, we'll say, used faster. It's 12 months internationally, we hover more like 10 months.

Speaker 2  1:26:35
Oh, good. We have some Filipino practitioners in the Philippines, so you send that out to them as well. Yes,

Speaker 3  1:26:42
we ship pretty much everywhere except some remote countries in Africa. So that can be drop shipping, or that can be the patient ordering themselves.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:55
Dr Leonard has his hand up. Is that? Oh, yes,

Speaker 6  1:27:00
rosemary, that was a very good presentation. Thank you. I'm a novice to this whole sphere, but this group has talked about estrogen dot dominance, and I was wondering the estrogen that you're actually measuring is that specific to the ovaries? Is Is there a com fusion about where the estrogen is coming from?

Speaker 3  1:27:29
Sure. So it is the breakdown of e2 or the serum estradiol. It's e 3g, so if I go back to some of those studies, let me scroll backwards here. Can it be coming from another area? I'm not the best expert on that, but what we can see is, if you go to third party studies that are doing this based on using it to find ovulation, that you do see it correlates very well. Let me just scroll all the way back and again. There's a whole research guide that you can look at in more detail, but right here. So if we look at how they correlate to the serum level, and this one probably shows it even better. So if you look at a serum estradiol level and then you look at the urine metabolites, they do correlate very well. Of course, we have some outliers, so that's where, you know, it gets really fun as a clinician, of if you have a patient who's an outlier, then you have to figure out where it's coming from. And it gets even more complicated. You know, the unfortunately, the more toxins that we get exposed to, and the more Estro estrogens and those sort of things. What I'm kind of, yeah, I knew that's where you're headed.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:45
Thank you very much. Yeah, so it does get

Speaker 3  1:28:47
more complicated. But as you can see, the current studies do show that this is a good reflection of their their estradiol. But if you get a lot of outliers, and you may have to investigate more to figure out, you know, where is this coming from?

Speaker 2  1:29:01
Appreciate that's part of the Yeah. Part of the question also is you're kind of mentioning E, 3g, is I was saying it's almost similar to serum but I'm assuming progesterone and also L, H levels are pretty close to serum levels. Is that? Yes, yes.

Speaker 3  1:29:18
So this graph you if you look up this study, it'd probably be much easier to read. I can't, unfortunately, zoom in anymore, but you can see this one is LH, then this one is the e2 and e3 and then this one is the progesterone in order that direction.

Speaker 2  1:29:39
Well as one of the I'm trying to read their questions here that since you mentioned LH, is there a use for us men here, of course, LH would be trying to figure out COVID HCG, is that something that has been tested or done, not

Speaker 3  1:29:55
to my knowledge, so I would have to go in deep dive into The literature to see if someone has done LH in in men and what they found. But I can't speak to it right now, unfortunately.

Speaker 2  1:30:08
So no only women, no men, only women, yes, yeah, we can't get samples yet. Then for us, you

Speaker 3  1:30:14
can order a sample and use it on a patient or a family member or friend or something like that and or, I mean, you're welcome to test and be an experiment, but I just don't have any reference ranges or anything like that for you. All right. You know,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:27
Dr halassa wants us measuring the estrone levels and progesterone levels when all men. So,

Speaker 3  1:30:33
yes, yes, yep. I, I am not saying that it will not be useful. We just currently don't have any data on it. Got it.

Speaker 2  1:30:44
What about you comparing this to salivary so, you know, this big debate about, oh yeah, serum, now you're getting yourself into this whole mess, yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:30:56
into the web. Yeah. Where

Speaker 2  1:30:59
do you know? I guess, compare yourself to this salivary I guess

Speaker 3  1:31:03
so we have not ourselves done direct comparisons against us in salvatory. We really have gone more to again, the gold standard of blood and ultrasounds. And we really see the value in it being a third party study. So it just happened to be that Marquette University is has a national family planning program where they're looking to they currently use clear blue to avoid a pregnancy, and, of course, help to achieve a pregnancy. But their researchers have been keeping an eye on all these new technologies of urinary metabolites, so they've investigated UVA provenito And us, and they did have the best outcomes with us, and so they have opted to begin that 50 participant study that is completely third party from us. Of course, is going to benefit us a lot, but it's not ours to take claim to, but once it's published, it is going to be against the gold standard of blood and ultrasounds.

Speaker 2  1:32:02
Uh, whatever. So you know that we can't use, or, I don't know if you heard of the salivary test being the standard of you can actually be base your dosing of hormones through that, but with this new technology of yours through the urine, which also they say you can, should not base dosing of hormones through urine, right? But this one. Can you do that? So

Speaker 3  1:32:23
I have heard that. I mean, to be honest, I heard conflicting advice from you can't use blood, you can't use your nerve tablets, and you can't use serum to do your dosing on I've heard arguments of all of them. And so where we stand is we're not using our device to say that you've reached like a therapeutic level of your interventions, but instead, you're able to track what they're depends on what you have them on. You can track the underlying pattern, and you can see how they're responding and if they're responding the way you want or not. And then, of course, tweaking of the dose, we would say, is still based more on did you get the outcome you wanted? So maybe you're trying to lower their estrogen. Did you achieve that or not, and tweak it based on that. So I would love, actually, maybe after this session, if you have some good resources that you could share about the how you use the results of saliva to do your dosing, I have not been able to find a good place where I can find really good data to look at. So if you want to share that back with me, that would be great.

Speaker 2  1:33:27
Dr Bill, did you know what happened in Ephraim? There was a slug off between doctor zava And oh no, was the owner of Dutch?

Bill Clearfield  1:33:37
Yeah. I was, no. I was, was that in your in your peptide thing, or,

Speaker 2  1:33:42
yeah, so we were in the modules, we're in the back, and then suddenly all these people coming out from the reproductive hormone session were just talking about, like, what is happening there? Is it just because salva is just saying that? Oh, he was one of the our employees, and now he created his own company with our stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:03
He's own zrt, correct? Isn't that? So, yeah.

Speaker 2  1:34:06
So they kind of clashed horns in that and kind of shocked all these newbies who's taking the modules and but again, this is the

Bill Clearfield  1:34:16
they thought they were escaping all the turmoil by coming over to, you know, to us to the dark side right now, if they show them this, you'll really be in this. And

Speaker 2  1:34:28
that's module one. That's where all the newbies go. I don't know about this is for me. No, I

Bill Clearfield  1:34:33
kept meeting that the same guy at lunch. He's a he's 75 years old. He's an OP he's been an ophthalmologist for his whole life, and now he's decided he can't operate anymore. So he's now learning this. And he was module one, so he was, oh my god, wow. 75 years old, starting over again. So I got his I got his contact. I should, I should send him a message and see what he's what he has to say. So, no, I didn't hear that. So, so, but, but here's, here's a question, how I know you mentioned the Dutch test at the beginning. So how do that coordinate with this? Yeah, so we one, a one shot deal, right? That's a, that's a 111, off. Well,

Speaker 3  1:35:18
Dutch does a cycle mapping, and I think zrt does, and so does someone else. But all the problems with the other cycle mapping is, from my understanding, at least Dutch does not index it to ovulation, and so they don't move the graph based on when the woman had ovulated. And so, for example, we ran into an issue. We actually did a head to head comparison of our device in a Dutch cycle map at the same time, and the woman ovulated on day 10, and the Dutch only had one value before her ovulation. It was on day nine, and so it did not show the cycle map of the hormone because it was already too far into the cycle by time it got started. But again, we've done a head to head comparison, and our values are in line with their results as well. So those who already use Dutch, our results do correlate well. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:11
and can I answer your question, sir, how does it correlate with serum tests? Have you done that?

Speaker 3  1:36:16
So that's actually the slide that I'm currently showing. Is that our urinary and metabolites directly compared to serum. So this, again, it's only a four part, four participant study, but the 50 participant will be out, you know, in six months, so it'll be really exciting. So

Bill Clearfield  1:36:34
explain to me, explain to us again, what we're looking at,

Speaker 3  1:36:37
yeah, so all the way to the left is the different participants. LH, so you can see, so like this one. And I admit it's very hard to see, but the solid lines are the blood and then the faded lines are the urine metabolites. And so correlation is very good. This one again, so we're moving to the right now. We're into the estrogen and E, 3g, and then further to the right is the progesterone in blood and the urinary metabolites of PDG.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:11
It's pretty good, alright, when you're when you have somebody say, on, on, you know, hormone replacement, sometimes I've seen especially in the like the the cycle mapping, sure it's hit a solid line right across the top. You know, if they're on estrogen and whatnot. So, yes, yes.

Speaker 3  1:37:33
So you will see, if you put someone on oral, vaginal, injectable progesterone, you will get that, what we call the ceiling effect. So if you want some, we do have this protocol on perimenopause. You're welcome to look at more detail if you'd like. But we do write out, like our limitations. So we talk about how the serum is urinary travels do correlate well, but they're a reflection of you can't compare head to head. Then we list out, if you have someone on oral, vaginal, injectable progesterone, it will significantly raise serum and then make the urinary metabolites appear to be at the ceiling effect. If you have someone on more of a topical so patches, creams, oils, then they only slightly increase the serum, only slightly increase the urine metabolite. So I'll just show you quickly, if you all have time, a product or a case study that's been created by a provider. So we, of course, talk to providers internationally. So not everyone has access to a bio identical hormones as easily, and some countries, for example, can't even get their hands on DHEA or other things. So we as the hormone monitoring company are not advocating for a certain way to treat the patient. We just showcase in these case studies what a provider has done. So this is a 50 female in perimenopause, and she came to her provider complaining of heavy periods, breast tenderness, losing your hair, decline in mood and also a really crisis state, anxiety, depression, suicide. So her first data is very interesting. This is one of the 50 year olds where we see that, you know, she's still having coordination at this point, but she's having this really low progesterone. So she is one that, again, would benefit from that dosing of progesterone right after ovulation. But this is not where she stayed. She actually moved into this one with this high, fluctuating estrogen, and the patient and the provider found that when her estrogen was high and fluctuating, that's when she was feeling the worst. So the provider labeled this as estrogen dominance and an operatory cycle. They began doing lifestyle modification supplements, transdermal progesterone. So the transdermal when we look at her follow up data, her progesterone levels are not ceiling effect, because, again, the transdermal so only slight change. But what both the patient and the provider were happy about is they were able to better manage her estrogen, so the patient felt better. The provider was more satisfied with less of this fluctuation, like this one, and now she's more in a stable state. Full transparency, I've also seen providers look at this data and they say, I'm going to put this patient on a transdermal project, or, sorry, transdermal estradiol patch, to try to minimize the ebbs and flows. So I've seen this same chart become treated almost opposite of each other. And I'm not saying one is better than the other, but what it does do is show you what is, what is happening. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:33
okay, so transdermals will not be picked up.

Speaker 3  1:40:37
Correct? The transdermals will not be picked up. And so there's pros and cons to that you won't see it. So if a patient has a pattern that looks like this, and they're on the patch, you would still see their body is having fluctuations. So if you maybe, when they came to you, they looked like this, and you're like, great, they're doing well, but now they're feeling bad, and you get them testing, and maybe they've now moved into more of this one. And so this is where, again, it might help you to see, okay, well, I've already done X, Y and Z. They're not responding how I want. What should I do next?

Speaker 2  1:41:13
So a lot of the clinical correlation also, yes, what's that? Supplement? Mirror Ray. Are you familiar with that?

Unknown Speaker  1:41:27
This? This providers out of the UK your mushroom

Bill Clearfield  1:41:32
mushrooms, so don't they lower estrogen.

Speaker 2  1:41:36
Possibly to look it up. Yeah. So will you, will this be? Will this if you put pellets in, we'll break the machine I'm trying.

Speaker 3  1:41:48
I actually we have no data on pellets as of right now, no one has said they put this patient on pellets, and we have not done our own internal study, so I actually don't know what will happen with pellets?

Unknown Speaker  1:42:02
Oh, Dr Bill, you can start it. Yep,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:04
wait. We'll, we can. We'll take care of that.

Speaker 3  1:42:08
Tell us what happened. Ideally, we bought a before pellets, and then during,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:14
we can accommodate that. So we only did five of them today, so

Speaker 3  1:42:23
So I looked up that supplement, and it looks like it doesn't say outright that it's a it Looks like it is a mushroom, but it's saying, has the highest concentration of the bioactive bio molecules of that type of mushroom, and it contains natural vitamin C. And I don't know what else that was, my quick Google of that one.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:56
Okay, yep, Reishi Mushrooms, that controls estrogen, from what I remember. So, okay, well, more toys, Dr Nario, more questions from the on the emails.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:16
Oh no, I got it all done.

Speaker 3  1:43:20
And so if you do want, in case there's multiple physicians in a group here, we typically will send one device per provider, unless you're in a group setting, and we send the max is two devices per office, because the devices themselves, you can actually erase the memory and pass it on to someone else. So if your office really does have, you know, 10 providers, and you want to pass them around and try it out. The device itself is connected by an email while it's in use, and then when you disconnect from the app, then it can be passed on to someone else. So you're welcome to do that. So if you guys want to fill out the form to have a sample sent to Dr Bill, we can do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:59
Okay, no, I work alone because I don't get along with any money. Scenario shows up every once in a while, just so I have some company here. But other than that, it's, you know, that that that's, that's it. We I've tried for over the years, but it's never taken so, sure, sure. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? So we were not going to be here the next two weeks because it's Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve and I'm taking off. So if anybody wants to run, the run, the run the group, you're more than welcome to do it. Rosemary. Thank you so much. It's been a pleasure and quite quite eye opening. We're back on January 7. I'll send out notices, and, you know, notice and whatnot, and we're going to have a Laura pole, who is going to teach us about integrative culinary oncology. Did I get that right? Doctor Nario, yeah, or is it integrative oncology? So I'm not sure exactly what that is, but we'll find out.

Speaker 2  1:45:13
Oh, she cooks cancer patients. So there you go.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:17
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:18
so that'll be something, something different. The week after that, we're going to have somebody from thorn is going to talk to us about metabolic testing. On January 21 we have Doctor Dennis is returning, you know, he's one of our mold guys. We've had him on before. And on January 28 we're going to have the poly MVA, which we missed. I think it was last week or the week before, we kind of, kind of missed, missed out on that in February, I have somebody who's going to be talking to us about red light therapy, and we have a special treat on on February 4. I can't really pronounce her name. She's a PhD, she's she's at the University of Paris. She just, just got her PhD, and she's going to be talking to us about cell biology. She's my, my lady friend's step daughter, and just got her PhD. She's 32 years old, and she said she she doesn't want to do a video because, because it's, it'll be 230 in the morning when we go on where she is. So, so that that should be actually quite, quite interesting. So that's what's coming up. Everybody that we saw at a forum, it was great seeing you in person. Dr halass, of course, you know was, was the ring leader there, and we have to thank strive pharmacy, because they fed us nicely for a couple nights in a row, and if anybody's got any, any any thoughts about what went on there. And so wrap up. That's, that's, we'd like to hear that. And if you're presenting anywhere, please let us know. And we'll, we'll, you know, send that on to the group. And anything else? Doctor Nari, you got anything for

Speaker 2  1:47:05
us? Yeah, there's some good looking people on the pictures on the chat board. So they posted some pictures there

Bill Clearfield  1:47:16
on the chat Yeah, so

Speaker 2  1:47:18
Stefan kind of placed it in there. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:21
you have to click the links. Is that it? Oh,

Speaker 2  1:47:25
no, he just attached it there. So some of the attendees in a for m, they're all there. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:33
mine's mine's not coming up blank, so, oh,

Speaker 2  1:47:35
you probably because you got cut off, but it's there. There's some pictures there that he posted. So okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:43
just I'd

Speaker 1  1:47:45
like to make an announcement. There's a Isla is having their annual conference in San Diego. I have to get the exact dates. I think it's in March. But for anybody interested in photodynamic therapy and photobiomodulation, it's a fabulous three day event with hands on clinics too.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:06
Okay, great. I have Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association in South Lake Tahoe. Is on January 16 and 17th. I'm going to be talking about the microbiome. And so if you want to go skiing, they set it up very nicely. It's they have classes from 630 to 9:30am and then you go skiing till four o'clock, and then they come back and have classes again. And then Dr fungal will sing some karaoke for us also. And if you want something really out outlandish, on March 25 to 27th in Pittsburgh, the American Academy of Medical acupuncture, and I'm going to be doing a workshop on endocrinology, of hormone manipulation using acupuncture techniques. So that was those of you know that I, I been an acupuncture since 1991 and I finally put the two together. So and one other thing, I got an I got a, I don't know what's going to come out anything, but I got an invitation to from IFM to send them some abstracts for talks at the end of May. So I sent them two which I'm not sure exactly how I got that, but so, you know, I guess you if you make enough noise, something will happen. So it becomes famous. Did you have anything to do with it.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:40
I don't

Bill Clearfield  1:49:43
know. I've taken one online, two online classes with them, and that's about it. Do that. So okay, so anybody else have anything they would like to add? We'll, we'll miss you. We'll have have a great holiday season, whatever holidays you celebrate. And if you don't celebrate holidays, have just just, you know, take some time off, or a little bit of time off, and, you know, appreciate your family, appreciate what, you know, what we have together. And hopefully next year we're going to have some really great, some really great. Con more content, doctor, where's yak we're gonna, we're gonna tap you to to give us a talk. Okay. So, okay. Thank

Speaker 5  1:50:30
you for accepting the family I'm already learning. So

Bill Clearfield  1:50:36
okay, and Dr Siegel, it was really nice, nice running into you in person, and so those of you don't know, Diego is our integrative veterinarian, so she gets to do all she gets to do all this great stuff, and no one tells her you can't do it, because it's

Speaker 5  1:50:57
my best. Parents were veterinarians. But yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:02
so we're, yeah, she does, you tell her, she does hyperbaric oxygen, and she does do ozone therapy with with the pets

Speaker 1  1:51:12
too. Oh, absolutely. Ozone photodynamic therapy, lasers, frequency vibration and getting ready to do several things with peptides and exosomes. Wow, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:27
we had, we had to go to medical school. And of course, there's our good friend, Jay Campbell, who doesn't have any degrees, and he does all of this stuff anyway. So I'm not so sure how he does it, but he does it, so, okay, Doctor Quinn, you got anything from or? Doctor Tanno, you got anything from the sees? Doctor Tanno, stolen. Yeah, he's stolen anything from the research group,

Speaker 7  1:51:54
not quite we, as we met in Vegas, really didn't come to anything that we need to report here, so we will have the meeting this Saturday and then continue the progress we're making.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:10
Okay, anybody who wants to be part of the meeting is, are they welcome? Or do you do they have to, you know, you know, go through some rituals.

Speaker 7  1:52:22
That is Dr Burgess and Quinn's and Dr Ben's decision. I think, I guess

Bill Clearfield  1:52:30
I haven't heard, I haven't heard about Dr Burgess in the last couple of days. Have you heard anything Dr Quinn?

Unknown Speaker  1:52:36
You know, I thought I saw his name in the participants. Did I yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:43
that's, I'm sorry,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:44
I didn't see it. Okay, good, all right. And the other one is Joel, our, you know, our good friend, Joel, he's in the hospital, too.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:51
Oh, what's, what's up? Uh, well,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:54
you know, he's got a little bit of a substance abuse problem, so he's, he's went, went a little bit over the over the edge. So he's, he's on rehab, so, oh, poor guy. Well, we need to hear Yeah. So, yeah, you know, you know he's, he's my right hand man, and you know he's a good guy. So he sure

Unknown Speaker  1:53:15
is, he he's, he's super Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:19
okay, so it's gone, right? So we're, they're off, Diddy Joel and Dr Burgess, right? Yeah, yeah, you're gonna have, you're gonna have to grow your beard a little longer than, jeez,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:32
I'll leave that to Tano.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:36
So, Dr Tano, I almost didn't recognize somebody who's new hairdo. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:40
yeah, I want to go bored, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:53:44
The best haircut. It's a cool

Speaker 8  1:53:46
look, man. No. On the Saturday thing, I encourage anybody, if they, if they want to jump on and listen and kind of get a feel for what's going on, what we're all about, that's fine.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:58
You don't happen to have the link with you. I have it in my thing. I'll put it. Anybody wants to get in touch with me. It's

Unknown Speaker  1:54:05
town. Dr, town, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:54:07
I give him the link. So I will put the link in against if some people are interested, we have a zoom link. It's always the same, just like Dr Clearfield, and we can have it to you if you send us a message or anything like that, or send a message to Dr pearfield, and I will get it and we send you the link. So Saturday afternoon, 12pm eastern time, that's when we meet. Oh,

Speaker 9  1:54:38
that's awesome. Sharing you want a doctor? Doctor Burgess update,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:43
yeah, left the

Speaker 9  1:54:45
hospital of Thursday night, thank God, and we took care of him here at my home for a few days, and then he's back at his place. So doing better, but it's, it's touch and go. He it's really hard, so

Unknown Speaker  1:55:01
where it is. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:55:02
doing pretty good today.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:06
Okay, that's great. Somebody said he was on for a little bit. So there's the CME credit link. Just hit that and you know, they'll ask you for a credit card for $30 and you get two ama category one credits, and especially if you need them, you know, the end of the year, and all of the, all the ones that are accredited. When you get the email each week, I have, I have it on there, I have the link for the video, and then the link that gets you to me credit. So if you need CME credits, I mean, it's 15 bucks a piece. It's not, not too bad.

Speaker 8  1:55:42
Yeah. Okay, real quick. Marie, can I ask is, Is Dr Burgess taking the stuff that I sent him? Yes,

Speaker 9  1:55:51
he is. I haven't had a report on whether he thinks it's helping or not. Also still on some meds from the hospital, not, maybe not as much for pain, but he gets tired really fast, and that's been a problem. So we have had him walking around with a pretend Walker wheelchair thing, but they didn't have him out of bed at all at the hospital, so he could barely use his legs, which really upset his doctor. I got to meet Dr Figgy, the one who's helping him with the school over there, and that's why he was at that hospital, which is, I didn't know that, so she's the one that got him in that hospital, but she wasn't alerted that he was even there, so she didn't get to see him until his last day. She gave us a lot of good information on how to treat him and everything so and she's just you wait. I hope you guys get to meet her. She's just amazing, really amazing.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:52
Okay, um, so are we allowed to answer queen, what you sent him? The video's off. So it's Oh yeah, yeah. Deniability here.

Speaker 8  1:57:01
Yeah, I did. I sent him that powerful pain product, or kind of suitable pain product. It's got a little bit of cannabiroids in there, curcumin, pea, you know, MSM, phenylalanine, and all of that kind of stuff to help, obviously, with the pain. But then also, you know, he's been on the heavy narcs, and there's a way to, you know, make sure that you're coming down okay, and you're cutting that down, because I'm sure they send them home with something. But if, you know, if we can cut that down and even get to the point to eliminate that, then we're good. Yeah,

Speaker 9  1:57:33
he's not so dependent on it, on the pain meds anymore. So that's good. You know that Gabapentin shot really? I don't know what motivated him to do that, but then they wrote it on all his charts. Highly allergic. Do not give so he won't get it again.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:52
So let's just good, okay, all right. All right. I think Dr Quinn, that sounds like a lecture for you. Where are you on February 25 if you could tell us about

Speaker 8  1:58:07
options? Yeah, no, I can do that as as you know, we've had some people talk about the endocannabinoid system and all that kind of stuff. And what, you know, the lectures are fabulous that they're that they're giving. I just take it a step further into some of the, the treatments that that can be done, some of the, the information, you know, like, also, you know, from, from oh gosh, Dustin Sulak and others who have, who have come up with some some studies and some treatment stuff. Yeah, I can do that. Hopefully by that time, we'll have our study going. I think I told you I don't want to take up time here, but I think I told you we're doing a head to head study for pain with Tylenol and codeine, half grain for post op orthopedic.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:56
You told me that somewhere along the line, maybe

Unknown Speaker  1:59:02
it, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:04
so we were jabbering about a lot of things. So yeah,

Speaker 8  1:59:07
yeah, I'll put together something I definitely

Bill Clearfield  1:59:10
got you for February 25

Speaker 8  1:59:12
Okay, Okay. Sounds good. Sounds right, good.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:16
We have, we have Dr Borja. We have endless Tuesdays to fill up. So okay,

Speaker 5  1:59:21
we'll, we'll look forward to it. I'll let you alright. So

Bill Clearfield  1:59:25
does anybody Where's Doctor Nario? He's still on there. Does anybody have any thoughts on what we saw tonight? As far as you know, the usefulness of this, this device at all. I wish Carol was still on because, you know, she's our pros pro here

Speaker 2  1:59:46
that I see it useful for, are basically more of the irregular patients that we have. And I actually do a lot of cycle mapping, it just takes a long time before the results gets back to us. And when you do cycle mapping, is really the standard day 14 to 25 is being a little bit more specific. And you I have the regular patients that I just give that type of instruction to start progesterone on them, but this one, you can really now have a specific duration of days that you can prescribe your your specific progesterone or management, even whatever you want to do. And also the price of Dutch, when you look at the cycle mapping, this is definitely going to be cheaper when you put a head to head match of the cycle mapping with Dutch or even the other companies. So it's, it's the more cost effective choice. And again, this is something new that's definitely worth trying. And he's, she's giving out for free. I mean, maybe a set. So there definitely does, always a plus for new products.

Speaker 7  2:00:57
Okay, I really think it's interesting. But these days and fertility is not only women. So how do you coordinate this with the men to see what is going on with them, so then they can optimize their fertility together? That's my question. But I didn't ask that. So I

Speaker 2  2:01:22
think he she answered that question that it's not studied yet in men, right, but definitely worth looking at. Yes, yeah,

Speaker 8  2:01:32
yeah, that's what I mean, doing testosterone, right? But

Bill Clearfield  2:01:39
I guess she said, if they get bombarded enough with it, they would, but you would think they would have that already, you know. And I mean, that's should be pretty standard now,

Speaker 8  2:01:45
but yeah, and she did mention one little sentence about issues, you know, with with toxins or something, which always piques my interest there. So if someone gets all of this wonderful data, assuming good patient compliance with all of this and reading machine and doing all that right, and someone wants to protect the practitioner is going to treat them. What do we do about other circumstances that are affecting the hormones? And it's not you might not get the results that you want? I don't know what to do.

Speaker 7  2:02:21
Yeah, I don't think she answered that question well, because environmental estrogens is, you know, estrogens and all of that, she did not get into that. Somebody asked the question, but she did not really answer that one. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  2:02:34
yeah, the, you know, it's almost like it's too much information, and I don't, wouldn't know what to do with it if I had it, that's that seems to

Speaker 8  2:02:42
me. So if you had it, Dr Bill would, would you use that as a guide for treatment? I mean, based on all your experience, you know how to do? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:02:52
like Dr Dario said, I mean, we sort of guess at the, you know, at the time, you know, we know where it's supposed to be. I guess this tells you more exactly, you know, for each individual person. So I can see it for that. But I mean, what personally I, you know, I find, you know, a lot of times when we have a lot of the issues that we're dealing with is there's a lot of testosterone that's that's disrupted and and thyroid issue also in, you know, and, and you need to, need to, you know, coordinate those also,

Speaker 5  2:03:29
I see it very helpful with athletes. I take care of a lot of athletes, like, help them to recover after whatever they do in bodybuilding, in in like a professional sports and I see a lot of women going through that amenorrhea stage, or irregular period stage, when they were so deprived and nutrition wise and having excess exercise to get them back on track.

Speaker 8  2:03:58
So Dr Borja, would that? Would that help in women who are body builders, as you say, that that become in I

Speaker 5  2:04:06
think it would definitely do. I think, yeah, I think it would helpful. That's actually a very would be very helpful, because I see a lot of that when they have they don't have periods for eight months, six months, eight months after they're done,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:19
right, right, right. And

Speaker 5  2:04:22
it creates a lot of trauma. It creates a lot of trauma and stress and mental problems. So if I think, if I could see, if I address those issues, they could help them to recover,

Speaker 8  2:04:32
yeah, wouldn't it be interesting to do like, almost like a before and an after, as before, right? Yes, before somebody started, and then during, and then maybe after a lot of lifting,

Speaker 5  2:04:45
because a lot of them don't really do, I mean, I have athletes that do it for life. Those are smaller portions. Most of them, they would do it for some period of time and and, yeah, they're competing. And a lot of times, those patients who they would be affected the most, who would who don't balance it really well, they'll just go into these competitions and all the way, and then they suffer the consequences. I really would love to see, to see that. I think that would be very helpful.

Speaker 2  2:05:18
What I like with what she said was it's actually was empowering the patient to actually get a hold of their own ovulation. So I did understand the point that she was saying that it can be attained, not through a provider, but they can buy it for their for themselves. Because if you're right, you need to time those things. You cannot wait for a provider's appointment to actually tell you when sexual activity should happen. So I definitely got an understanding of that. And as I, as I saw the value of this test, it's really for ovulation. You want to catch the right timing to actually get pregnant. So that's why. Again, this is something on the rise, and I have seen the UVA before, the machine that was mentioned a while ago. So these machines are starting to trend lately, and that's one of the reasons why we we invited her over, so our providers here on the call should always be updated about the uprising of these new devices, so we won't be late in terms of catching up with technology. So right now we're trying to figure out where to put it, but eventually it'll find its place. And that's usually how Dutch started, that's how Genova started, and all of these ERT companies, but, but I'm sure it's going to be if it's not going to be this brand, there's going to be something out there. There'll be an upgrade of this also, you

Unknown Speaker  2:06:47
you're muted. Dr, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:51
all right, well, I'm confused. Yeah, I, you know, my great internet connection clicked off a few times tonight. So, yeah, I'm not really sure what to do with this thing. We'll see. We'll see how it goes. So got you, you young guys, you know, I'm all set in my ways, right? We did this way back in, you know, in aught nine, and that's that, you know, it was good enough. Now

Speaker 8  2:07:26
you're the story. You just, you just wave your hand over somebody

Bill Clearfield  2:07:29
about 1909, not 2009, oh god. So one of the one of the one of the abstracts I sent to I fm, I don't know if they'll like it or not. Was my 50 years as an anti aging physician, and the the the breakthroughs that per decade that that influenced it influenced my practice. So, so I don't know if that would be of an interest at all. I don't anybody here would be interested in that.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:59
Oh, yeah, that's Yeah, yeah. So

Bill Clearfield  2:08:03
those of you over a certain age may have remembered Nathan Pritikin. Oh, yeah, pretty good, right, yeah. So when I was a medical student, I actually spent a month there it is in Santa Monica, the hotel that he had rented. And my job was to get the guys that it was only men get them out of bed and make them walk, and we had to make them walk longer than the day before. That was that was the goal. So those of you don't know, the Pritikin was the first. It was one of the early pioneers of the low, flat, low fat diet to help reverse heart disease. He was not a doctor. He was an engineer. He had a heart attack when he was 43 and they told him to stay in bed. Wow, that's crazy. For six weeks, he had to stay in bed for six weeks. And they said, nuts to that. Yeah. So, so, I mean, there, if you go online, there's, they still have. There's the predicting plan and a predicting clinic. And also that was, I did that in 1976 oh, wow, yeah. So I go through each decade, I picked out three or four things that, you know, because I'm doing something different every couple of years, because I get bored. So, so I don't know if that would that's interest, or anybody here would be of interest, but I talk about Botox, we talk about acupuncture, we talk about NAD we talk about tele telomeres. You know, you know that one time those, those were all strange terms.

Speaker 8  2:09:34
Do you still practice using all of those things? I mean, obviously things that you've improved, but you still keep well,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:42
we've sort of modified the less than 10% fat diet that that didn't quite work. Yeah, something's right, but he didn't quite have it all. So, yeah, no, that didn't, that didn't quite work out. And it was pretty it was, it was pretty awful. You know, I wouldn't need it. You'd go, if you got up late at night. There were guys. There was always guys, because it was right on Santa Monica Pier. So there was lots of, you know, like, you know, board walked, you know, the places they could sneak out to, to go get a hot dog, yeah, so, so, so that, that was that so. So everybody have a have a great holiday season, and we will be back in three weeks. So we're taking off new Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, and we will be back better than ever. And anybody has anything that you want to, want to present to the group Doctor Boise act, since you're new, yeah, twist your arm. And no, and it's nice to you. It was nice meeting you there, by the way. Thank you. Thank you. It was nice meeting you there. And I hope, I hope you. We all learned something, and we'll take it at that. Anybody else have anything to add? Doctor Nario. Doctor Quinn,

Speaker 8  2:11:05
I don't know. Happy holidays. I'm good. Yes, happy holidays. Everybody else

Bill Clearfield  2:11:09
left. Doctor Tano, and those of you that are mute, super Bruce, um, always nice having you on and Marie take care of Doctor. Doctor Burgess for us and the folks in the Philippines. God, blessed that you're with us and bring one friend so we can double our census. Okay. Okay. Goodnight everybody, I will set get the Vanir up, you know where it is.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:33
Tonight, happy holidays, everybody.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai