Unknown Speaker  00:23
Oops, there I am.

Unknown Speaker  00:32
Can you Hear me?

Speaker 1  00:41
We still get it. Oh, yeah, I can still hear you. I'll hear it from your your thing, rather than here.

Bill Clearfield  00:50
How are things that? Ranchera there, Miss Dr Jeanette,

Speaker 2  01:01
sorry about that. I haven't been there in a while. I've been too busy, okay, and not having enough time having fun, but it's always there. Yep, have you thought at all about actually using it for, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:21
I'm starting, starting to think about it. But they were more expensive the food than where we were and they were, they were we didn't make any money. We lost some money. Here it was the IT guy kind of hit us with Bill I wasn't expecting. So I gotta, gotta rethink the I think we overfed everybody,

Unknown Speaker  01:49
or undercharge them, is what I keep saying.

Bill Clearfield  01:51
Well, there was that. But you know, the home Ait pass were giving me grief. I know you told me that it was, it was too expensive for them. You know, the ones who showed up, we spent $240 on food, on for every person who showed up, and we charged them, what? 299 oh, wow, you know. Then we had the IT guys. And you know, you know, you know, we had the hotel to pay and all of that. So yeah. And, quite frankly, the prices, the last time I ran a conference, the prices have just about doubled on everything. Oh, so

Speaker 2  02:29
it'd be nice it has a little more space.

Bill Clearfield  02:33
Well, I was anticipating about that size of group, so it was actually not, not too bad, you know, for that.

Speaker 2  02:41
So to go with the old one, or the ranchera,

Unknown Speaker  02:47
well, ranchera has more space.

Speaker 2  02:49
It's got better space. I think, well, yeah, you know, but I mean, it's just the way it's shaped, like we're all being squeezed down that corridor. And I felt like the people who came,

Bill Clearfield  03:03
yeah, I know. The other thing we got to think about is, if you get our town people, where are we going to put them in? And we got to get them there,

Speaker 2  03:10
I wonder if there's another option. I mean, don't feel any obligation to go to rantera Well.

Bill Clearfield  03:16
I mean, you know, we've done them at the pepper mill before, but they want 30, basically 9090, nights of, you know, 30 rooms guaranteed, three for three nights a piece at 279, a night. So, you know, that's a lot of money, guaranteed. Yeah, so that was the pepper mill. These people wanted 10 nights. They said we only got gave them five, and they didn't care. But we got more than that because they blocked out the room a month before. I told them not to tell they. I called them and told them that they said they wouldn't, and then, if you went on their website, it was actually cheaper than $15 a night, cheaper than if, then, then our special rate.

Speaker 2  03:59
So that's not cool, but there's got to be other options. I wonder if there's something new in town like that, that development that's just like east of the pepper mill, you know, by the theater. I don't know this town well enough, only been here a couple years, but there's a new area that has a lot of really nice condos, and then there's big cinema there. There's probably, that's where we were, okay, maybe, yeah, maybe we're talking about the same place. You're talking about shields,

Bill Clearfield  04:33
no, he said a pepper mill. But we're, you know, we used to be Park Lane Mall. That's where we were, okay, yeah, I see that's the theater. Yeah, yeah, the theater is there. And, you know, right? So, I mean we, you know, I mean we, the turnout was okay. We didn't charge enough, especially for the, the in house people, like I said, we had a rate for them and for the for the homeopaths, and they, they were whining and complaining about it, so I

Speaker 2  05:09
lowered it. Yeah, well, hopefully you've learned your lesson. Yeah. Well, I mean, you're the one who's left holding the bag when it doesn't work out. So, I mean, the prices are the prices. And, like, as you said, the prices are crazy. Well, the

Bill Clearfield  05:24
IT guy hit me with a bill. I wasn't, I wasn't expecting. I mean, I knew it would be, you know, I knew I owed him something, but it was twice as much as I was expecting. So, so that was one, like I said, the prices of the food was and then the hotel hit charges to 25% gratuity fee too, on top of everything else, yeah,

Speaker 2  05:47
that's more than ranchera manchero is 20% which is what a lot of places charge for large groups. You know, they just put a 20% gratuity. But 25 that's a lot, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  06:02
So okay, like I said I hadn't done one in a while, so the prices were, yeah, way higher than I was used to, and I done them at the pepper mill before. So do people like it there? Yeah? They're happy there, yeah, yeah. You know, it's a nice place, and the food was pretty good, and they the it. People didn't. They don't. They only charged me $50 a day for the IT work. So yeah, that's good

Unknown Speaker  06:31
for me. Hi

Speaker 3  06:33
guys. I'm sorry. I'm just want to, I don't see myself, so I didn't. I want to make sure I didn't mean we see you. You okay, great. Okay, to interrupt. I was like, okay, that's okay. Yeah, conversation. You're on. You're on. I want to be able to set up my slides so, but I get my daughter's going to help me. So whenever you guys, I want to say,

Bill Clearfield  06:55
well, it's about five of Dr Nario here in the center is going to give us his tip of the week. Oh, once we get started, perfect. And then, and after that, you know when you're ready? Okay, that's great.

Speaker 3  07:09
My daughter is going to help me with the slides, and then, and then I just wanted to say hello, and I wasn't sure if I was in or not, but now I know that I am. You're in. Okay, wonderful. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  07:23
Once you're in, you cannot come out.

Speaker 2  07:25
Yeah, what you went is Hotel California, right?

Speaker 3  07:31
Alright, I'm going to meet myself and let you guys continue. I I think Dr Franz is coming from Dubai.

Unknown Speaker  07:41
Oh, Dubai?

Unknown Speaker  07:43
From Dubai?

Speaker 3  07:45
I think so. But I think he's in China right now. So because he has a it's one of the products that I work with, too. So he's, he's very he's a lot, he's a world of knowledge. He's been with this company. It's his company for 30 years. So it's um that he he does a lot of work in Dubai with all those guys over there. They love all this stuff. They want to live forever. So here he is. There's France, right there.

Speaker 4  08:17
You just mentioned Dubai. Yeah, there's a big group of doctors actually inviting me and asking me to make a team for them to lecture about anti aging medicine. So basically, what a for M brings to the table they want over there. So you're right. There's a lot of resources there, and they have it. They have the infrastructure. They just need people. They need knowledge. That's what they that's what they're clamoring for.

Speaker 2  08:45
I thought a 4m had something in Dubai,

Speaker 4  08:48
they do, but the problem there is a for M can only stretch themselves to so much that they still want to focus on the US, and they have even, I think, Taiwan or Thailand. So they're slowly inching their way globally. But again, the hands are we need more hands for that. So maybe Jan, if you're volunteering to stretch out a little bit more, is that what you're saying? Can sign you up.

Speaker 2  09:17
Me, I'm not volunteering my time. Not yet. I've got a major remodel going on in my house, which, once that's all done, I'll be a lot more interested in remodeling something else.

Unknown Speaker  09:33
Always remodeling. That's a good thing. We're always,

Unknown Speaker  09:36
I am always remodeling something. But right now, I wouldn't want to be in Dubai.

Speaker 4  09:44
Well before it gets hot. I think it gets scorching hot over there. Well, it's the war. Oh, well, true that. But though, the weather wise, I'm not a big fan of the weather. I heard like gets so extreme over there.

Speaker 2  09:57
Yeah, I used to live in Houston. I lived there for 24 years. So I had a lot of girlfriends who had connections to the energy I mean, Houston is the energy capital of the US, right? So a lot of my girlfriends had husbands or they worked in the energy field. So some of them went and lived in Dubai. So yeah, I got the inside scoop on a bunch of things. So you got the scoop? Yeah, I got invited over there too. And I just, I don't know, it's a little scary to go over there. Oh, did you go? I didn't go, No, I don't know I was,

Bill Clearfield  10:34
I was there in 2012 Yeah, it was a little scary, yeah, because there's big, big posters of the Amir on the major, major intersections, looking down on everyone. And I swear it was like Scooby Doo there were eyes behind there watching, at least that's the way I felt. I don't know, for Cerna,

Speaker 2  10:55
yeah, yeah. I mean, if, I guess, if I went with a group of people that'd be different, because it'd be safe in the group. But I know she kept telling me she was felt completely safe. But she also had a husband who lived there, so something happened, like he owns her, right? So he pulled her out of whatever bad situation. You know, as a single woman, it's a little scarier, I think, go ahead and go. We never know. Maybe I know I will.

Speaker 4  11:28
I think they still do whipping when, yeah, when a criminal gets caught, I've heard, I'm not sure if they

Unknown Speaker  11:36
still whip women. Is that what you said? No,

Speaker 4  11:38
no. Like for criminals like the bad doers. They put them in public places and start whipping them like crazy,

Unknown Speaker  11:49
or that over here, actually.

Bill Clearfield  11:56
Yeah, I didn't see, I didn't see any of that. So I was there in December. It was pretty nice, actually. Yeah, that

Unknown Speaker  12:04
would be the good time of year to go.

Speaker 4  12:07
But you were on a wild goose chase, right?

Bill Clearfield  12:11
Yeah, it was after a guy stole a lot of money from me. I ended up working there for a while, though,

Speaker 2  12:19
you ended up working there for a while? Yeah, I was working there for a while, so a couple weeks. So how do you do that with your license?

Unknown Speaker  12:30
I don't know. Nobody asked.

Unknown Speaker  12:33
It works. Hey, I

Bill Clearfield  12:35
went to Kenya. I was in Kenya for nine months. Nobody asked about a license there either.

Speaker 4  12:41
They were just thankful that you're there. Actually, they were happy I was there,

Bill Clearfield  12:44
and they couldn't understand what I would, you know, consternation when we had a they had a so, so, so the life expectancy there for a male at that time, this was in 2007 I think was, if I remember, was 46 and for a female, was 53 and they had a guy there. He was in heart failure. He was about 50, and the intern said to me, Well, we give him the diuretics for three days, and he clears up. And then when we stop it, he gets, you know, he goes back into it. So why are you stopping it? He says, well, because they get neuropathy. And I said, Well, you got to give him potassium. And he said, we don't have it. Oh, wow, they don't have potassium.

Unknown Speaker  13:28
I think that's pretty cheap. No.

Bill Clearfield  13:31
Well, we was at the Suva District Hospital, which was 160 kilometers west of Nairobi. You pick up the electric line at the at Lake Victoria, and then make another go, another go, another 140 or 50 kilometers south to the end of the electric line, and there's a a block building. It was a cinder block building with a tin roof. That was the hospital. Wow, yeah. One day, a guy, this thing is and all sorts of characters wander around there, you know, like they, they work there. They get paid a little bit, I guess so, one day, this kind of guy's working out. Remember, I was living in Northeast Pennsylvania at the times, guys were wearing a University of scrantons t shirt, funny, which is like, Where the hell did he get that from?

Speaker 2  14:20
Russia, really long time ago, and they with a group of nurses, and they advised us to bring things like that, any kind of T shirt that has anything American on it, like that was a huge gift for them. So that's why they had universal,

Bill Clearfield  14:35
sure, no, Mary, Mary Ellen's the one she knows. She knows all about Northeast Pennsylvania. So, so, so he says to me, he said to me, where do you think when you when you give money or give, you know, clothes and stuff to Goodwill and charities and stuff, when he says, Where do you think

Unknown Speaker  14:55
it ends up? The Appalachians,

Bill Clearfield  14:58
halfway around the world, and some you know, some, you know, in the African, African forest was beside warrior country there. Well, so, yeah, so, so what we did with them, so you might find this interesting. So what we did is, so they didn't have potassium, they didn't have any they didn't have any beta blockers. They didn't have any digitalis, but they did have an internet connection. And I was looking I looked up and in the forest, there grows foxglove. Oh, wow, that's cool. Fox glove, those of you don't know is the is the is the root of digitalis. That's what it comes from. So we said, well, what now? What? Okay, so there's foxglove in the forest. I showed a picture just to someone. Oh yeah. Remember, they speak King's English to oh yes, man the we have plenty of that. So they called the medicine man from the village. And this guy was about six foot three. He showed up in full war paint a machete all the way up to his shoulder, and his face was all painted. And he's speaking King's English. So which is, at first, is a little, is a little shocking, but after, after the air a while, you kind of get you start talking that way too. So I showed him the picture, and he disappeared, and he came back in about an hour with a big bag of Roots and twigs and and I said, Well, what do we do with it now? So he cleared off the desk. It was a wood desk. He dumped out all the, all the, all the Roots and twigs. He took his machete out and just started chopping. The whole room was filled with like, you know, the foxglove dust. So we're all going to die from, you know, digitalis. So we chopped it up into his fine powder, wow. And we didn't have any capsules or anything, so we just put it in some water and gave it to him to drink. And it actually worked. Wow. When you go to those places, when you go to a place like that, you have to be very innovative. You know, one of my trainings was Chinese tongue and pulse diagnosis. Well, let me tell you that there, I used it quite extensively. They didn't have they had an x ray machine, but it was cobalt, and it wasn't shielded. And I told them, you're not turning that thing on around me, that's for sure, right? They also had a culture counter for, you know, for blood for, like, a blood chemistry, but it didn't work. It was broken, and they told me that the technician would be around in three months to fix it. Nine months later, when I left my replacement and they introduced my replacement to me, they told them that the technician is going to be around in three months to fix that, that blood, you know, the culture machine, so it's probably still not working. They did have every Ait. If there was a new Ait drug that had come out yesterday. They would have it two days over there that they had penicillin, potassium digitalis. Forget it that they don't have to

Unknown Speaker  18:09
go pick some mold out of the forest.

Bill Clearfield  18:11
Well, yeah. Well, they did. They learned quite a bit about, you know, the native herbal medicine, because that's what they use. And the grandmothers there? No, you know, they know how to take care of things. They had this big black slurry stuff they used, and that that's what they used to ward off malaria, right? The only ones who got malaria there were the ones that didn't listen to this, didn't listen to their grandmothers and listen to us Western doctors, those people got malaria. Wow. Hello. And with that doctor, Naria, with that, what's our tip of the week?

Unknown Speaker  18:49
Alright, so should I

Unknown Speaker  18:50
start? Or is that, or is that the tip of the week?

Speaker 4  18:53
Well, that could be, but okay, let me start. So I'll start with so this is, again, something that came through, it's now clinically evident. MK seven, seven. Have you heard of this? Dr Bill,

Unknown Speaker  19:06
yeah, I use it all the time.

Speaker 4  19:08
No, you're using 677, so this is, yes, I did hear about seven, seven, right? So, yeah, let me tell you about this. So it's called Ait a Morin because it's increasing, again, increasingly mentioned in the same breath as mk 677, in what alpoletti called the clinical setting of the internet. So MK seven, seven is a ghrelin receptor agonist developed as a growth hormone secretagog mechanistically, it stimulates the ghsr one, basically the ghrelin receptor, increasing pulsatile growth hormone release. So it's often suggested to produce similar anabolic effects with fewer appetite and edema related side effects compared to mk 677 so basically, this is the cousin, the quiet cousin of 677 However, and this is important, clinical development was limited. There are no robust long term human outcome trials, no aging data, minimal safety. So this is available in our friend's website. So you know what I'm talking about. So while it's marketed as a cleaner alternative at this point, it's more marketing narrative than evidence based. So it's, yes, it's widely available in what I call the wild west of peptide websites, which brings us to mk 677, Aita Moran, where we actually have human data and where this whole story begins. So MK, 677, for the ones who don't know, is that oral, non peptide adrenaline receptor agonist. It's a not. It's not a peptide. It increases growth hormone, IGF one, IGF BP three. So unlike exogenous HGH, it preserves physiologically pulsatility, although baseline growth hormone tone rises Half Life, 24 hours. So once daily dosing produces relative stable IGF, one elevation. So in short, it's not oral HDH, it's more likely pressing the pituitary doorbell every day and hoping it doesn't get annoyed human studies that we can provide for you one first one is NASA, animals of Internal Medicine, 2008 randomized RCT, two year trial and healthy older adults, finding sustained IGF, one elevation for again, bringing it to youthful Ait ranges, increasing in fat, free mass almost 1.66 kilograms, and no significant improvement in strength and Functional Performance, and increases fasting glucose, increased incidence of impaired glucose tolerance. So these are the negatives of the study. Conclusion, clear anabolic signaling, modest functional payoff and measurable metabolic cost. In other words, more lean mass, but no necessary again, not necessarily more push ups. Number two study, Murphy at odgwondo Clinical Endocrinology, demonstrated a robust growth hormone and IGF one elevation in adults with growth hormone deficiency. These are really pathologic cases. So mechanistically, it absolutely works. The endocrine access responds beautifully. Metabolism has some options, side effects of MK, 677, across trials and reports, increasing appetite, often significant. Again, weight gain, peripheral edema, transient paresthesia, increasing fasting glucose, reduced insulin sensitivity, occasional mild blood pressure increases, and again, mechanistically predictable. So when you chronically stimulate GH or hormone and IGF, one insulin signaling pays the price. It's not a bug, it's physiology and consistent findings that this is not a free lunch again, as you could see, but even though it makes you want to eat more, is when I make you like, make eat a bigger meal. So increases appetite. Those are the side effects. And I mean, you could eat a horse type of appetite, increase body weight, increase fasting glucose, increase insulin resistant markers, chronic growth hormone antagonizes insulin at the hepatic and peripheral level. So while lean mass increases, metabolic resilience may decline, particularly relevant in pre diabetics, metabolic syndrome oncology patients strong family history of insulin resistance. So be cautious about these people when you use mk 677, and if your patient already has 14 ways to become insulin resistant, this may not be the 15th one that they would need. So MK, 677, is not simply oral. HGH is a chronic ghrelin agonist that elevates IGF. One improves nitrogen balance, increased lean mass, enhances slow wave sleep even but this does not consistently improve strength or performance. May worsen insulin sensitivity has no long term cardiovascular oncologic or longevity outcome data yet. So mk 777, downplays these side effects for better tolerance and effects, but again, that's mostly marketing most substance in terms of the studies. So for us integrative physicians, the question isn't whether it increases growth hormone signals, it clearly does. The question is, in which phenotype does that anabolic trade off makes physiological sense, and in which patient, does it accelerate the very metabolic and proliferative risks we are trying to reduce? Because sometimes in medicine, just because we can amplify growth doesn't mean we should. So this is your tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  23:59
What about so this always, this comes up a lot. What about the answer patients using these, these substances?

Speaker 4  24:08
Yes. So on studies, it's on recommendations. Again, not. This is not FDA approved. Both mk 677, and 777, are still research only. And no, because of the increase in IGF. Again, I want to, want to say no, but it's basically, be cautious about it. But for me, if I'm using it, I'm not going to put that on a cancer patient, right?

Bill Clearfield  24:29
So, but you know, Terry Hertog always shows these slides where the patients would get with the highest quartile IGF one growth hormone levels have the lowest

Speaker 4  24:39
cancer rates, right? So you have to remember where Tarot hair talks practicing.

Bill Clearfield  24:45
But still, I mean, it shouldn't be any different. I believe

Speaker 4  24:49
you, because when I so remember, I was seeing cancer patients in the foresight Cancer Center, we have a graph where you see that had the higher the IGF level of a person is, and even growth hormone, it's a cross graph, the lower the chances of cancer happening. So that's why the theory behind IGF one and growth hormone levels is being debated now, but again, recent, again, current standing is, of course, if you, if you love your license, you definitely don't want to do it, but I do believe what you're saying, and even in her talk, because I've seen that graph in terms of that study.

Unknown Speaker  25:29
All right, well, are they both oral?

Speaker 4  25:33
Both oral? Yes, those are, those are rural. But I think Dr Bill, you could agree with the increased appetite. I have a lot of patients who are odgwing for food when they do this,

Bill Clearfield  25:44
yeah, well, if you remember the original injectable peptides, but we use semirelin, and then we use the growth hormone, GH, RP, two and six. I think I can't remember which one was 1111, increased appetite, one increased nausea. So you say, take, take your pick. So that was the ghrelin pathway that was before the CJC 1295, I don't know if you were around then that might

Unknown Speaker  26:17
have been before you. CJC is

Unknown Speaker  26:19
the one that I might have been before your

Unknown Speaker  26:21
time. Yeah, nope, I haven't used that. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  26:24
So I love when, you know, almost every day, somebody's coming in asking me if I know anything about any of these peptides that they're talking about in the gym, right? You know, all these great, great, so, so, so I've been using peptides since 2005 and probably even before that's, that's, that's the earliest I can remember using so well, you know what you're doing. Well, they always have to be ahead of the curve, so I have to think of something new. So, so, all right, are you ready? Dear, you're up. First of all, we need to unmute you first. That's number one.

Unknown Speaker  27:04
There we go. Okay, perfect.

Bill Clearfield  27:07
Okay. Would you like an introduction,

Speaker 3  27:10
sure, and let me just get let me just figure out I gotta get my notes up too. My daughter just went to the bathroom. She was waiting. So hold on. Let me just see if I can figure this out.

Bill Clearfield  27:18
Alright. Well, if you have your notes on your, on your on your desktop, and when you hit, if you hit share there, there's a green button down at the bottom. Okay, it's a share with an arrow up. Hit that, and that should take you, take you right to your slides.

Speaker 3  27:30
Okay, I'm just trying to figure out I have all these screens up here.

Bill Clearfield  27:35
Apologies. More so Can Can you? So even though I went with a Greek lady for quite a while, I still have trouble with your last name.

Speaker 3  27:49
Put a z where the Ait is, and then you can pronounce it phonetically. Okay, so Margarita Cerna, is that correct? Excellent. That's perfect. Okay, yeah, that's perfect too. I just I have to get my

Bill Clearfield  28:03
my Miss. Miss X has 40 years of groundbreaking experience in the marine and boating industry. She's established herself as a leader of innovation and excellence, as a visionary and accomplished leader. She has guided her company to significant success, earning a reputation as a bold risk taker and trails blazer. At least 30 years ago, Margarita ventured into the world of anti aging and bio hacking, driven by her passion for enhancing health and well being, her expertise has made her a respected figure in this fast growing industry. She combines her vast college with a with a dedication to approving the lives of others. She's a proud mother with a talented daughter who's going to have her bring up her slides, and there we go. Does he get it? We got it. Think it says audience window, enter full screen mode. There you go. It worked economic regulation. It says, right,

Speaker 3  29:01
yep, okay, all right, okay. Do you see it in full screen?

Unknown Speaker  29:07
It's sort of compressed.

Speaker 3  29:09
Okay, so we have to share it. Do we have to like this? Yeah? I think if you open, open, yeah, there you go. Sugar. Okay, we need one more.

Bill Clearfield  29:18
I think, I think you got it now. There you go. So, okay, so I met, where I met you, Marguerite, I met you in at a 4m right at the in Las Vegas, with the, of course, Dr halaso. You know who was doing what Dr halasa does. So, so, yeah, so I think we're going to find this quite interesting, and when you're ready,

Speaker 3  29:47
take it away. Okay, I just, I don't know what's going on, but I had my little guide to show me where to move the screens, but I can't figure that out, so hopefully I'll be able to move my screen so I want to, alright, yeah, usually it's at the bottom there, the bottom left. Yeah, I just, for some reason, it's not showing that. So let me see if I can, I can do it with this touch screen. Okay, okay, okay, alright, ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much for joining me today and this opportunity. So I'm going to talk about frequency sound and Autonomic regulations. It's I'm really passionate about this topic, so I've always trusted rhythm as a young entrepreneur in a male dominated industry, navigating pressure, payroll, responsibility and constantly proving myself. There were days that felt heavy, and when I had a tough day. I didn't numb it. I moved in it. I danced, I sang, mostly when no one could hear me. While some people were reaching for a drink, I was reaching for rhythm, for release, because even then, before I understood the science, my body knew something powerful. Stress needed movement, not suppression. What I didn't understand then was that I was regulating my Autonomic nervous system, and tonight we're going to explore three things, how frequency and sound influence Autonomic regulation, what that means physiologically, and how merging tools from mindfulness to frequencies to PEMF and water based therapies may support that terrain. Oh, just try to move my screen. The Autonomic nervous system is constantly scanning for safety. Sympathetic activation mobilizes us, heart rate increases, catecholamines surge, cortisol rises, myocardial cardial oxygen demand increases, inflammatory pathways activate, Parasympathetic activation restores us. Heart rate slows digestion, improves infla, inflammation decreases. Vagal, tone increases, sleep deepens. Health is not constant, calm. Health is flexibility. Rigidity is pathology. Flexibility is resistance. Sound is mechanical vibration. Vibration influences Breath. Breath influences Vagal tone. Vagal tone influences heart rate variability. HRV influences overall resilience. These physics interacting with physiology. This is physics, excuse me. So years ago, I was here in Connecticut, my father, my brother and my dad were in Florida, and my dad was home alone. I spoke to him that morning. He was frustrated over a cell phone company that would not release his number. He he said he was going to lie down for a minute, and that was the last time I spoke to him. I was holding my new more baby. Dad is gone. My brother came home, and my mom had called him. She found my dad lying there, she said he had a small smile on his face. He must have passed peacefully. I fell to my knees. My father was supposed to get on a plane the next day to spend the winter with me for the first time over 20 years. Instead, I was nursing my child, who had her own medical challenges, packing up my family and writing the eulogy for my father's funeral. There was no preparation for that kind of stuff. Stress does not knock gently. It floods, and when it floods, physiologically, we see acute sympathetic surge, elevated cortisol, reduced Vagal tone endothelial stress and increase cardiovascular strain.

Speaker 3  34:15
So my father and brother worked side by side. They were inseparable. Apologies here, because I needed to move this my father. When my father died, something changed in my brother's and my brother's heart. He held it. He was proud he was the provider. Now. He was managing diabetes, heart disease and financial stress, just like my dad, he had neuropathy in his legs due to diabetes, and there was a period of time where walking became difficult, but with focused Circulatory Support and frequency based interventions, he was able to improve his neuropathy significantly, and he regained his sensation enough to be riding his bike with his son. Excuse me, I'm so sorry these slides are definitely not organized. This is a picture of my dad, my brother. Grief remained unspoken at 41 he had his first heart attack. At 55 he has he had a second, and that was it. He left behind his eight year old son and only child, gifted, sensitive and his his father was his best friend.

Speaker 3  35:51
We talk about glucose, we talk about lipids, we talk about genetics. We do not talk enough about prolonged sympathetic dominance, chronic stress becomes terrain. This is not to blame. It's about awareness. It's about supporting the Autonomic environment in which disease develops.

Speaker 3  36:22
After my brother passed, my mom could not sleep. Every time she closed her eyes she saw him, her physician recommended sedatives, but sedation was not the same as regulation. Sedation suppresses regulation restores. I used a PMF device gently down her chest to cover her heart and lungs and stomach, supporting circulation and Autonomic tone. This, this, these organs hold grief. The fascia tightens, breathing restricts. One evening, we paired the PMF with structured sound frequencies and vibro acoustics. Within minutes, her breathing deepened, her shoulders softened, her nervous system shifted, and for the first time since his passing, she slept through the night. I gave her a little speaker to take home and use by her bedside. She loves it so much, she travels with it. And if you knew my mother, that's a miracle in itself. Sleep has improved. Her baseline has improved. When Parasympathetic tone improves, sleep architecture improves. When sleep improves, inflammation decreases. We cannot remove grief, but we can support the body that carries it. So I want to try an exercise with you guys. It's called brahmari, and it's about making a tone inside your inside your body. And if you guys are willing to try this, it would be wonderful. You can put your hands on your ears, if you want to close your ears, and what you're going to do is take a big inhale and then breathe out like with a buzzing like a B, and that vibration will go into the brain, and you'll see how your body relaxes. We actually use this with children, teenagers. They love it helps them relax, and it's something that people could just take home and just have a moment. I mean, it's not sometimes people have difficulty meditating, but making sounds can actually help relax the body so much more easily. So I'm just going to share this, and if you guys are want to try it, it will only take a couple of minutes. So I'm going to say to inhale, take a deep breath and close your lips, or you can just hum. We're

Speaker 3  39:00
going to do it five times, and I don't know if you just want to listen to me, but if not, it would be great if we can all try it. So let's inhale. I'm

Unknown Speaker  39:23
all right, am I the only one doing this

Unknown Speaker  39:34
well and two more times?

Unknown Speaker  39:42
Hmm?

Speaker 3  39:54
After a session like that, you can feel a difference in your body. Your body will relax to the vibration. It shifts into a Parasympathetic state. Dr Tanvigandhi just released a medical paper called pediatrics and mindfulness based sound therapy for adolescents and mental health. Her findings was Parasympathetic, sorry. Parasympathetic activation reduced cortisol, improve sleep, improve focus, improved emotional regulation. My goodness.

Speaker 3  40:41
In in 113 year old case, structured sound therapy improved anxiety and sleep and over and over two months time. Most importantly, the patient gained agency. She learned she could shift her nervous system. Summer. So here you can see my mom. I mean, my mom is 81 and here i She was 80 on the top picture with my brother and my my daughter. And you can see she still has a light inside her. And I truly believe that the practices that she's integrative has helped her achieve so much in life at this age, even with all this loss. So another type of therapy that I got involved with recently is a water based therapy with sound. This also helps with the Parasympathetic state. Just relax the body. When the body is in warm water and it's floating, all the organs float, and so the body can deeply relax. Our body is about 60% water, and sound travels more efficiently in water than air. When rhythmic oscillation is introduced into water, we're introducing organized, mechanical input into a fluid system. So while people are floating, we're actually integrating sound into the water. In my work with children, including autistic children, I partnered with a company called angel fish, and they're a therapeutic water company supporting Nitro. Oh, sorry, Neurodivergent children, let me show you over here in the water, gravity unloads, the spine decompresses. Fascial tension decreases. Breath deepens, naturally and when we combine floating Watsu style oscillation, craniosacral work in the water and gently and gentle frequencies integration, we create a Parasympathetic, dominant environment. So with these children here that were autistic, I witnessed children who struggle with eye contact relaxed enough to look directly into, you know, their therapist eyes, which was phenomenal within minutes. And this picture on the right is my little godson, oops, and he is somebody after his dad passed away, just could not really sit still so easily because he was so close to his father. But when I got him into like the sound bath in the water, he just totally transformed.

Speaker 3  43:39
Excuse me, this is my daughter, and I She's She was 16 here, and she herself also got certified in this modality of floating therapy with water. And you can see this music actually is in the water, and everybody is floating, and when your head's in the water, you can hear the sounds and the frequencies go into the brain. So it's like binaural beats, and then the sound travels like five times faster, into the water, into the body. There's really nothing like this out there.

Speaker 3  44:39
So So buoyancy reduces the load. And when you are working with people in the water, like my daughter was working with people that were almost six, five, we had one gentleman there, and she could float him just like he weighed, you know, 20 pounds. And you know, when she got back from this therapy, she actually integrative this with her friends, which was phenomenal to see children help other children. I mean, you know, she's not a kid, but it's still really phenomenal experience. So hydrostatic pressure improves, venous return. Buoyancy reduces load. When Vagal tone improves regulation, improves this fluid dynamics and Fascial interaction with the Autonomic physiology. So circulation is life. So I want to talk to you about one of my favorite PEMF devices, and Franz ZOC is here today. So later on, if you have any questions, this is company that's been around for 30 years, and it's called The Sedona. They have very luxurious products as well. As you know, all their products are luxurious, but they have simpler products for home use if you have not a lot of space, or even for you know, your offices, and then they have beautiful chairs that are equipped with the same frequencies and technology. So the Sedona system has been clinically used for over 30 years and the manufacture. It was manufactured in Austria. It's a pulse electromagnetic field system designed to support cellular function and circulation. As we know cell cellular activity is electromag electrochemical membrane potential influences ion exchange. I am exchange influences ATP production. ATP availability influences our tissue repair. Traditional PEMF systems deliver pulse magnetic fields to support these processes, Sedona, integrative variable magnetic fields with acoustic modulation influenced by the Russians bio bioelectric magnetic research. So this is their newest phase. They have three different phases of the Sedona. And the Russians have put the sound in there a few years ago. But Franz can confirm all that stuff, if you guys would like to know, the clinical intention is to is supportive modulation of circulation, cellular signaling environment, cellular cellular signaling environments and Autonomic balance. For a practical standpoint, clinicians observe improved microcirculation, improve tissue oxygenation, reduce inflammatory load, improved Autonomic regulation. In addition to clinical systems, Sedona also manufactures beautiful design wellness land lounges and PEMF mass therapeutic pillows and home use products that integrative the same technology in more accessible formats. For those who are curious, I have them listed on my Margarita wellness website, and I can share the QR code at the end if you would like to see so if you have any questions for Dr Franci is here, and I will you know you can be available after the presentation. Let me just show you a video that We have. So this is the donor I'm

Unknown Speaker  49:07
and there you go. And here we go, the other one down in here. I

Speaker 3  49:58
thank and that is a beautiful piece of equipment. Whoops, so I own a lot of different devices, PEMF devices and tools for recovery, because I've had a lot of ups and downs with my family passing and challenges with my daughter and her health, and I always felt like recovery was one of the most important things for me, recovery, performance, brain health, clarity, and sometimes I don't have time to just get away and reboot my system, so I've integrative things into a daily routine for myself. And you know, sometimes I can pick up a little speaker and play some music with frequencies. Every day, I use a PEMF device religiously. And when I was at a forum this past year, I came across another doctor who's out of Hawaii, and he introduced me to this very unique product that I've never seen anything like this before in my life. And it's called the LYFE vessel, and it integrative sound and light and sacred geometry. And you get inside this, this hexagon, and you're completely immersed, like all the EMFs are blocked out. And this experience there's, I've never experienced anything like this. So the LYFE Fascial, it creates a controlled sensory field. It reduces interference, plus predictable, predictable multisensory input supports the Parasympathetic, sympathetic dominance, deep Parasympathetic, deep Parasympathetic States support improved HRV, reduce muscle tone, improve sleep onset, digestive regulation. And I'm going to show you a brief video. So I want you to observe the posture, the breathing and your own physiology. So let me just show you this. Actually, when I tried this at a forum, I literally had to sit down for about 10 minutes. It took me to another place I see where that video is. Here we go.

Speaker 5  52:47
The light vessel is a regeneration technology engineered to support healing at the deep cellular level. The Chamber combines specialized materials, therapeutic light and precision tuned frequencies, creating an environment where the body can remove physical and emotional blocks and regenerate at the cellular level, presented at the A for an innovative medicine exhibition in Las Vegas. It is already present in United States, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Italy, where doctors, physiotherapists and most of us have witnessed a shift in their practices, being able to help up to 30 patients per day, moving from traditional treatments to LYFE therapy, the Life vessel invented on the shores of Hawaii and 100% Made in Italy, come to see us and live the Dolce LYFE.

Speaker 3  53:54
So I spoke with Dr Martinez today, and I asked him how much this thing weighed, and he told me 2000 pounds. So each of those panels are 180 pounds, and they're layered with different materials to create this vibration that goes into the body with the sound that is in the vessel. And then there's also PEMF in there. I mean, you know, people aren't necessarily going to have these in their homes on everybody, but it's really important to know that we have options out there that can enhance our already incredible medical opportunities with Doctors like you. So energy is not the goal. Regulation is sound. Does not require belief. It meets the body where it already lives in a world of caring, stress and loss, frequency offers regulation the body is always listening. What are we teaching it to hold so I have one more slide here, and this was an experience that really opened up my eyes 10 years ago. Oh, my God, this is my friend's dog. And you know, this happened after my father passed away, beamer on him. I introduced, I was introduced to this device that basically took this dog that could barely walk, and in three days, he was running around like a puppy. This was literally and my friends didn't even know how to use this device, but I knew this dog since the dog was one and, you know, my dad had died, and I thought to myself, wow, they actually kept this dog alive for over a year after they found this device. It was, and he lived till he was almost 15 years old as a white lab that's already extraordinarily old, but he had cancer and hip dysplasia. And you know, animals have no placebo effect. So if you haven't tried to integrative or experience any of these devices, I really recommend to, you know, to take a look at it. If anybody wants to explore more information, I have a ton of resources. And you know, like I said, Franz is here today, and he can answer any questions about the Sedona. He's been working for 30 years with all types of patients. I have these three way text messages between him and, you know, whoever else has purchased the devices, and he gives personal guidance and supports their health. So thank you so much. Does anyone Yeah? Does anyone have any questions, or is there any takeaways that you'd like to share?

Bill Clearfield  56:59
Yeah, anybody have any any comments or questions? Yeah, I just

Speaker 2  57:02
have a question. What is PEMF? Stand for? It's pulse,

Speaker 3  57:06
electromagnetic frequency. Thanks. I'm sorry about the slides. My team put those together, and it really did not coordinate with my I was like, Oh, my God, you did fine. Thanks, William.

Bill Clearfield  57:23
What can you go? Can you give us sort of a short list of indications

Speaker 3  57:31
for every type of thing? I mean, goodness, it's like I've seen so, so many things I've seen. Well, I have a horse device that I actually gift to rescue barns, and I don't have any slides for this, but, you know, I've seen Lame horses walk again. You know, sometimes we don't even know what's going on in the body. You know, things live in our Fascial and we everything is connected in our body. So when you're using something that's systemic, we address everything, versus if we're targeting something so and also when you have improved a circulation, when you put other things in the body, now it's going to go to the areas where circulation naturally slows down due to stress. So I think that, you know, I mean from pain to neuropathy to just, I mean, we have mental and physical stress, I would say depression, anxiety. You know, you saw like in the pool with these children that were autistic, integrating sound also works with the subconscious mind, not just the conscious mind, because, you know, we have a mental component to every physical component that's going on with our lives, and so if we can address everything holistically that way, that's going to give us much More of a successful experience with whatever we're doing to shift, you know, we have to create new neural pathways, you know, in order for our minds to think differently. And we can go and try doing it consciously, but, you know, we're not going to be able to do that consciously. We have to actually do things subconsciously. And if we're doing daily detoxing, we're going to be holistically healthier. So when you're introducing things like frequencies, you are going to be naturally detoxing on a daily basis.

Speaker 1  59:34
There's a question about, How much is the LYFE Fascial,

Speaker 3  59:38
the LYFE LYFE vest, I think, is about 110,000 um, you know, it's, there's only a few around I think in America, I think there's some going into California, and I think there might be going something going into Texas. I mean, I just got off the phone with Dr Martinez. Most of them are in Europe and in Hawaii, he has a center in Hawaii actually has people come and do these immersions there. I did tell him that people might be interested in trying this. So I can definitely let you guys know when he is doing his next event. I may introduce him. I am going to definitely introduce him to Dr Kiana Shaw. He actually has a toothbrush. Do you guys know dr Shaw? Anybody know dr Cerna Shaw? He's a biological dentist, and he's combining dentistry and medicine together. He's out of California on Sundays. If anybody's interested in connecting, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:00:41
get, get me his contact. We could, maybe we can get him one. Yeah, and

Speaker 3  1:00:44
if you want to have Dr Martinez, like he has a toothbrush that helps with frequencies as well. I mean, he's super genius. He's actually making a stem cell tank, a tank, actually, not a water tank with frequencies and sound where you can put submerse your body in there, and he has frequencies that will help with stem cells absorption. But you're going to put the stem cells in the tank, and then your body can physically absorb the stem

Unknown Speaker  1:01:13
cells, you know, let Stefan know about that one. Yeah, I know that's his. That's his. That's right up his alley.

Speaker 3  1:01:20
Yeah, he loves that stuff. I know it's all and so does. Dr James. He loves that stuff too. I was talking to him last night, but, but he, you know, we have different like, I guess, you know, the Sedona is also a very incredible device. It's tissue specific. Dr James owns one of those as well. He's also experience experimenting with sound. He has one of my tables that, you know, I I let him use, and sort of, he's been integrating that. He's trying to find the frequencies for different diseases. But they are tons of resources. I mean, you know, like I said, Does anybody have any questions for Dr Franz?

Bill Clearfield  1:02:08
There's a question about, when doing the humming exercise with our voice, after we take a deep breath and cover our ears, what frequency are we humming?

Speaker 3  1:02:17
Well, the voice is one of our most powerful healing sounds. It, it. Voice is unbelievable, and our own voice is super healing too, but it's a vibration in the voice. So when I was exploring sound healing, I actually didn't even know that I was doing it, but I was about it was about 30 years ago when I went to the carpalu Center for Health and dr, dr, Jeff McDowell had us do with these yoga poses, and we were in these yoga poses and and breathing and making these sounds for the vibration of the chakras, and I had the most profound detox experience in his class, in a weekend going through these layers. And I really couldn't believe it, but he was talking about, and this is so early on, but that was my own voice. So when we can have targeted, you know, frequencies, because we everything, all our cells have different frequencies. And so when we can do tissue specific healing, so the Sedona is very is programmable. There's not a lot of programmable devices out there, and it has all the different waves, so you can target the wave plus the frequency, and that combination is incredible. And and vibration as well. They have a whole experience. I think that it's really the future of medicine. I mean, they've been using ultrasound to, you know, move stem cells in the body target a direction, but when you actually can get the frequency that you need, that's going to open up a whole new world to answer

Speaker 4  1:04:11
that question. So when they're asking about what frequency, so you have to remember the vagus nerve is again, the key to the Parasympathetic control, humming, chanting or listening to frequencies around 10 hertz. This is what we call the Alpha Theta border, and like gargling sounds, can activate it directly. So this is the concept behind you. Also hear about this Viber acoustic beds. So I think that's the one that you just saw there. And even bone conducting audio, so the ones that they put on the back of the head. So these are the basic concepts of how these these machines work. So getting to that around 10 hertz. So basically, the lower the hertz, the better stimulus that you actually give to your vagus nerve. And there are different ranges for for Hertz, for example, around four to eight. These are the theta states. This is the one that's actually used through the binaural beats. And then 0.5 to four. I guess this is remember for brainwave interest, more and more of the deep recovery, and then four to eight, more of creative and stress release. So alpha even focuses on on calmness. So really, the lower the the hurts and the specific range in terms of what you want to achieve, you definitely want to use that in that specific case.

Speaker 3  1:05:32
Yeah, the lower it's it's the lower hertz is more. There's a lot more things that it covers, but sometimes you do need more powerful like building bone, you know that's, I mean, the Sedona goes up. Dr Franz, are you still there? Yes, I'm here. I don't know. Can you hear me? Yeah. Can you tell them about the Sedona and, like, you know, and explain to them the because there it goes, up to 15,000 hertz. Am I correct?

Speaker 6  1:06:05
Yeah, sorry to interrupt. Anyway, I'm listening. So coming back to the question, what's the frequency of the human voice? I've been working for 35 years now in this field, and work with a lot of university professors out in Europe. So what I remember, they told me, the human voice is around, from a male is around 85 to 150 hertz, and from females, it's 165 to around 180 Hertz. Yeah. So just to tell you what I heard from my European guys, if it's okay with you, in a few minutes, I would like to explain you PEMF, the technology past electromagnetic therapy, if it is okay, yes, go right ahead. Okay. So what it does? Basically, it accelerates your blood circulation. It's increasing the oxygen supply within the cell, which is the most important thing, because, as Margarita said, we are 60% water and the rest of the body cells. Then also what it does, it's enhancing our metabolism. It's opening up all our lymphatic blockages. It cleans our arteries, our veins and also our colonic system, which is very important. Yeah. So the secret of the two secrets of PEMF is the following, as we know, the red blood cells are carrying the oxygen so under the influence of wrong diet, no exercise, and especially Wi Fi. The last 2025, years, our red blood cells are clotting. So if they stuck together, they cannot make the way through the capillaries to our regular cells. So what we do is we break up this so called Rouleau effect. Yeah, so now the red bulk blood cells are one by one. They can make their way through the capillaries to all our cells. But now the second thing is a damaged cell is blocked, mostly nothing goes in and out and eventually dies. So what we do is now, with PEMF positive electromagnetic field therapy, we are balancing the ion concentration on the cell membrane, the positive and negative natural calcium. So now the sodium potassium pump is working properly, nutrients and especially oxygen into the cells and waste products will be removed. So this means the first minute we are on the PEMF device, we are starting a detox, tremendous detox, but also we support the body for self healing process, because the oxygen partial pressure in the cell goes up to 800% the cell splits. So we talk about Cerna rejuvenation. So this is basically the secret of PEMF. And the theme of today is frequencies. Because we work with frequencies, we have a frequency range from one hertz to 15,000 hertz, which sounds a lot, but what we do is with the frequency. With lower frequency, we do vasodilation. So this means we open up all the blockages. And with the higher frequencies, we do Watsu constriction. Why do we need it? Because, for example, I have a knee injury or swollen Ait or something. I never would put something warm on it. Of course, I put ice on it there. So I use higher frequency for vasoconstris here. So basically, this is, in a few minutes, the technology about PEMF, and again, coming back to the frequencies, all our organs have different frequencies. We talk about brain frequency, you know, the deep sleep stage. If we talk about sleep, it's a major issue in the Western world, because we're surrounded by cell phone tower routers, cell phone towers and Wi Fi routers, and they mess up with our brain. So what we do is with the PEMF, we also can align our brain frequencies to bring them, for example, in the theater stage when we need the deep sleep, or in the with the Schumann frequency, we bring them into the relaxation stage, meditation stage, or with the 25 hertz, which we also have, we bring them in the awakening stage, where 25 hertz is actually the brain frequency, where our brain is actually absorbing most of the information. So as you guys said already, it's on this planet. It's everything about energy and frequency. That's what it is. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:28
Okay, all right, what about we've heard some criticisms about it being a placebo effect.

Speaker 6  1:10:39
Placebo Effect, well, sorry, interrupt placebo effect. Criticism. I tell people, if they have had constant pain for two, three months, chronic pain, yeah, and we use the PEMF device, and all the sudden, or within a few sessions, their pain disappears. And as long as the pain is gone, I don't care if it's a placebo or not, but we know the healing effect of PEMF and this Margarita mentioned before. We also have been working on animals horses, and that work with high end research horses resources. And for example, at research horse, it doesn't run clean if there's a pain, yeah. So we had great success. So animals don't have placebo effect. Yeah. If humans have it, and it's to their benefit that their pain is all of a sudden gone, it's good for them, yeah, so as long as we activate something in the body, is

Bill Clearfield  1:11:34
there any, any, any, any danger in damaging hearing or balance?

Speaker 6  1:11:39
No, no, no. I mean, we have three contraindications. We have cardio pacemakers, we have pregnancy and we have epilepsy, where we don't use it. But otherwise, side effects. Side effects can be if we start out with a too strong of an intensity, yeah, or higher, too high frequency. We could have healing crisis, which is, actually, it's not, it feels bad, yeah. But actually, for example, we work with a lot of Lyme disease patients, and they were always afraid, oh, my God, I use frequencies, and I have a herxhelmer reaction. The nice thing is, the audio wise, we can adjust the intensity so we can go from one Gauss up to 100 colors, and also the frequency. We can go from one to 15,000 hertz. We can even go in the decimals with the frequencies, which is very important in magnetic field therapy. For example, the frequency, the Schumann frequency, is not seven, it's not Ait, it's 7.83 Hertz. Yeah. It varies now in the last few years. Yeah, but yeah. So it's important, of course, and we guide the people, as Margarita mentioned before, we guide the people what kind of preset programs you have, preset programs they should use for certain situations.

Speaker 4  1:12:55
I just for our audience who's kind of trying to catch up with Dr Frans term of Schumann resonance. So it's a set of extremely low frequency electromagnetic waves generated excited by lightning discharges in the cavity of the between the earth surface and the ionosphere. So it's often described as the Earth's heartbeat, or natural electromagnetic frequency, again, with primary fundamental frequency of as you mentioned, 7.83 hertz, and it has found to be beneficial for sleep, stress reduction, relaxation, cognitive function. So just to kind of get our audience caught up with the Schumann Resonance, thank you.

Speaker 3  1:13:31
I mean, France, you have a booklet that is so valuable. You know, with everything, all these different conditions, and you know

Speaker 6  1:13:42
exactly, so basically, we have an indication booklet. And the question, and a lot of people, I mean, is this a military machine? I tell them, No, but I asked a lot of doctors, and that I I was actually exhibiting at the A form I started 20 years ago, and all these doctors came Okay, so what is it good for that? Told them, okay, so it's cell related. So it's good for arthritis, for Alzheimer for Parkinson, for neuropathy, name it, yeah. And then they asked me, Is it a miracle machine? I said, No, it's not a miracle machine. But if you can name me one disease which is not cell related, it's, please tell me. And you know what? In China and in Russia, they call all these diseases, ODS, it means oxygen deficiency syndrome. Of course, in the western world we have like arthritis and fibromyalgia, it's inflammation. What is inflammation? Inflammation is lack of oxygen. And lack of oxygen leads to inflammation to pain, sorry, and also to diseases, yeah. So it's all oxygen deficiency within the cell.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:49
So how long would, how long would a session last?

Speaker 6  1:14:54
The sessions are normally 30 minutes, yeah. So if people sometimes they have stress, as long as they use it 1520, minutes, but 30 minutes is ideal, and you don't need to use it more than 30 minutes because your body got the energy or the energy which it needs. And the effect of this 30 minute session, it lasts up to 1015, hours. So when they do conferences, for example, and we tell people, you might sleep better till they 90% of them come back and they confirm, oh my god, I slept much better. Is it really the PEMF here? Because it's still the frequency, it's still working in your body. And we also tell them, mostly they get up from our mat and now we have this launch, and they say, oh my god, it feels really bad at 10, 20% pain relief within 30 minutes, and we tell them that it's working better by the by the hours. And most of the people who do the sessions in the morning at conferences, for example, the A for m. I mean, some of you guys know how big the area is, they come back at the end of that, they say, You know what? It's even better. Now the pain is even less, and my legs don't kill me because I'm not tired from walking around. Simply, why? Because we have that good blood circulation going on.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:08
Any any results with neurodegenerative diseases?

Speaker 6  1:16:11
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, definitely, yes, very good results. I mean, two of my famous cases. Personally, we work with a lot of sales reps. One young gentleman in San Francisco, he was like 35 he came in in the wheelchair with his wife, a hairdresser. He had his fist like this and slightly shaking, and that we have this pillow applicator. So I gave him the pillow applicator, put in his lap. He put his hand on and I was explaining to them what magnetic field therapy is doing. So within 15 minutes, or 20 minutes, socializing with him and his wife, his wife, actually, his wife, started almost crying. She said, Oh my God, what's happening. And she said, what's happening? And she said, Okay, look at my husband. He's opening up his face. Yeah. And the second case I had, very dramatic. It was at the yoga at Arizona or New Mexico, this yoga event, source, care, whatever it's called, 2000 yoga gurus worldwide. So we were in the middle of a desert, and they brought one guy. He was around 70, in the wheelchair, also stiff, and he was shaking like Helen, you know, two people that put him on the mat. And you know, after like around 2025, minutes, not only he stopped shaking, but also he opened up his fist and he straightened out his legs so the muscles were relaxing already. So these were my two most. For me, most, most, most amazing cases. Of course, it's these are cases which are not happening every day, because usually it's a long time, uh, process, yeah, because we don't expect miracles, and they never promise miracles, so it's always and, you know, diseases don't come from one day to the other. They they building up. Yeah, there's not always heart and heart attack or No, all of a sudden, stroke, it's building up in our body. And the same thing is, you know pain, you know we know the court. We don't give we know, like cortisone shot, yeah? So you know the pain level. It comes down, yeah, sometimes you have a bad day, it goes up again, but never to the high level. And then it comes down. But it goes like very fast, and because the more we detox, the more oxygen we get in all our cells, you know, the lower the inflammation. And if the inflammation goes down, yeah, of course the pain is going that way.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:29
Yeah. Okay, so how often? How often would you do this? 30 minutes.

Speaker 6  1:18:34
I do it once a day, because, as Margarita said, we have a device. I started out in 1991 with hospitals in Europe, in Austria, Germany, university clinics, doctors offices. And then after like, a year or two, more and more people came and said, Okay, do you have a home device? Because we don't want to go to the clinic every day. Plus it's a family device. And then we created the nice mat for the family use. It's like a yoga mat and a little pillow, and the control unit nice and portable. And so, yes, so I use it half a day, every day. Leave me if I'm traveling now, I go to clinic, I go to private clients. I do my sessions for 35 years. I don't want to miss it. I'm not almost 70. I travel around the planet. I'm now in Hong Kong. I'm going to China tomorrow, then to Bali the day after. So I never had, like, similar I haven't been sick for 35 years. I, you know, never got covid. That's another thing we should you guys should talk about it once, about the vaccination stuff, anyway. So this is, yeah, we did.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:40
That's why, that's why we're banned all over the place. Yeah, the AOA threw us out. YouTube threw us out everybody, yeah, I know.

Speaker 6  1:19:55
I mean, thank God. I mean, there are some of us who got lucky and denied the vaccination, but even we knew what, because Margarita mentioned artists. Yeah. I mean, we in Europe, we have known where artist is coming from, yeah. But, you know, Nobody's allowed to mention it, because the pharma industry will shut us all down there. So it's with a lot of other things, yeah, but it's, that's a talk for another time, you know. So anyway, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:21
can you give us a hint? Yeah, can I give you what a hint you said? You know where it's coming from. Give us a hint.

Speaker 6  1:20:32
Well, we know Ait is coming from vaccinations. I mean, you know, I work with a lot of doctors, and a lot of doctors became my friends now, yeah, because they love our product, and they open up, yeah. And I give it for example. One example, my cousin's son. He was a young, one of the youngest doctors in Austria, immediately hired in London by a cancer research company. And I talked to him once a year, once every other year, and I call him as a whole girl, that's his name. Did you find anything the cure for cancer? He said, you know, Uncle France, you know, I said, you know, don't have to tell me, not yet, but you know, we got another 2 million pounds fundings, yeah, we know. I mean cancer. I mean, I don't know who's listening now here, so it's another thing. Yeah, we don't want to talk about it officially, yeah, but I talk about freely, because I'm not in us. So anyway, I used to live in the US in Florida for 10 years, so I was very careful when I mentioned cancer. But yeah, we also have a lot of success with that, and people only come to us, to us when they have stage four, and chemo and radiation didn't work. And I mean, either lows. We have a lot of cases with that, so yeah, anyway, but we got to keep it Be careful, where we talk, how we talk, yes about this, yeah. But anyway, so these doctors coming back to that, they tell me actually how many shots babies in the first two to three days get before they leave the hospital, you wouldn't believe it. It's unreal, yeah. I mean, it's all the money making. So these are, these are the one of the biggest reasons for autism, for example, as of many other diseases when we grow they are,

Speaker 3  1:22:18
yeah, the heavy metals, right? The heavy metals and the vaccines.

Speaker 6  1:22:23
That's a good word. That good that you mentioned heavy metals. One thing we cannot do with with PEMF, with magnetic field therapy, we cannot get rid of heavy metals in our body. But what we do is we use binders like chlorella, Cerna, light, yeah. And these binders, you know, they bind the heavy metals and then we flush it out with PEMF, yeah. So the combination, you know, chlorella zeolite, yeah, with the perfect combination to get rid or, you know, chelations therapy, yeah, we worked with a lot of chelation therapy clinics in the US. These therapy centers had like 2022 chairs. We came in with the meds and this so, yes, in combination with that, we get rid of heavy metals. And heavy metals is the situation with heavy metals is very dangerous. People are not aware of it, yeah, but we are surrounded by heavy metals. We breathe it in, we eat it like when we have, like, fast food or whatever so. And these are the most toxic thing. And coming back to the vaccination, what was covid? I mean, the shots graphene oxide. I mean, I'm sure you all aware about it. I mean, that's why we have no young kids. I played professional football when a soccer when I was young. And now soccer plays at the age of 2223 25 they, you know, fall down at the soccer field, heart attack, sudden death or stroke. Yeah, so. And, you know, when we saw the first videos from Wuhan, yeah, and people walking on the street, falling down, you don't fall down from a virus infection. You're falling down from a heart attack or stroke. Yeah. So that's what Autonomic are causing, yeah, and that's the problem, yeah. So, and that's why they actually block the red blood cells even more. Yeah, they clot them even more. And of course, if you do that, you have an oxygen deficiency in the in the brain cells, for example, and then you know, or you know, it blocks your arteries and veins and you have heart attacks,

Unknown Speaker  1:24:28
and the PEMF goes through the blood brain barrier, correct?

Speaker 7  1:24:31
Yes. Okay, well, can I say something? Sure, okay, well, there's lots of wonderful PEMF machines from Europe. Europe is way ahead of us, and machines come from Germany, from Austria, and the most sophisticated one was called sequence, and that was Ait liebov invention. And I ended up and I gave to Dr Dayton, actually, we gave them Ait liebov original machine, except it's very complicated and sophisticated to learn because in addition to frequencies, they work with different waveforms and, you know, big learning curve. But nonetheless, what Margarita was talking about was yoga therapy and healing. And my teacher, Dr Mishra, he said, Sanskrit is the science of vibration. And what I did is they uploaded into the chat his fundamentals of Yoga Book, and that could give people good understanding to begin on. So what's being done is wonderful. I mean, I sleep every night with Schumann with his resonance, okay? And I use a simple machine called an earth pulse, but it'll do the job, right? Yeah, you know, your machine is much more sophisticated, and you know a lot more about the therapies, because you actually work with people. So I think the work is really terrific, and everybody should learn about it. And what amazes me is why the audience here doesn't know that much about PEMF. Something has been escaping them. Yeah, something is lacking and missing. And I think Margarita is doing wonderful work. And you know, what you're doing is very good too. So the more we learn, and the more people are helped, I think the better it is.

Speaker 6  1:26:33
Well, the good thing is, when you talked about the also the waveforms, it's correct. So when we started in 1991 we started with the pure sine wave, yeah, which is a birth magnetic wave here. So then few couple years later, German doctor said, Oh no, no, you have to have the rectangular wave, yeah, which is origin from a sine wave. Then you can have the rectangular wave. We said, okay, no problem. We started it. We researched it, and we build it in our machine. Another couple years later, a Swiss professor said, no, no, you have to have the sawtooth waveform. Okay, we build it in so now what we have in our device, we have, you can choose from sine wave, rectangular wave or sawtooth waveform. And these are all the in preset programs. But to be honest to you, the sine wave, as I mentioned, is the one which your body knows to deal with, because it's the earth magnetic field. Yeah, the rectangular one is a little bit more aggressive, and the saw tooth is very aggressive. Yeah, you can use it at athletes or acute young people who have acute injuries. God forbid you use a sawtooth waveform for with a patient who, for example, has Lyme disease. Yeah, it's herx, Ait chimp pure. And then the patient would say, oh, no, I don't want to do it anymore because I got so much pain from that. Yeah. Well, you have a

Unknown Speaker  1:27:52
bad experience, right?

Speaker 6  1:27:54
Yeah, so, and that's why we prefer we have it in but we have these preset programs. And when you mentioned, okay, it's very sophisticated. Yes, it is. But what we do is we don't only selling these devices. I mean, people are purchasing it. We don't sell. We inform, we educate people, and they make up their mind if they want to purchase it or not. Yeah, we're not like this, multi level, level companies. Are two companies in the US, very famous. We don't push people to buy we say, Okay, this is what PEMF is doing, and that's why I never mentioned my the company of my product, but the name of my product, it's PEMF. I'm talking about PEMF only. What we do is we inform and educate, and then people make up their mind, and once they decide to purchase one, we work with them. This means, on the weekly basis, we asked him, okay, what are we dealing with? Is this arthritis? Is it osteoporosis? Is it Alzheimer? Parkins? So is it a sensitive thing, or how old are you? How is your physically,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:53
you support them very well.

Speaker 3  1:28:55
Yeah, he's excellent. Franz has been always there. I mean, if he doesn't respond immediately, he responds within an hour, like I've never, within the day, so supportive. You're so and he has, he has five children, so I think two of them are in your company,

Speaker 6  1:29:15
France, three, three of them work in my company.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:17
Yes, not turlish, yeah, yeah,

Speaker 6  1:29:22
exactly German anyway. So once they get the device, we tell them, Okay, start out for one week with this, this program, yeah, it's easy. You turn it on, select the program number, and press start and lay down. So after one week, they come back with their reaction, and depending on their reaction, I give them the next program, it's either me or my kids or some of my top guys out on the field. Yeah. So why do we want that? We don't want we want fast results. Because the faster results they see on themselves, the faster they like to talk. And word of mouth spreads around. And we have never advertised in 34 years only. Last year, my kids started with Instagram and word of mouth took me to 46 countries worldwide. Yeah. So that's what we do. We work with them, and then we work with them on the weekly basis, yeah. And they always can within days. They can also send a WhatsApp. They say, France, by the way, I got dizzy after two three sessions, which is sometimes normal, because you get easy for two reasons, all of a sudden, less oxygen in the brain, or all of a sudden, improved oxygen level in the brain, yeah, in the brain, yeah, which is important, because by the time we age, the oxygen level in the brain goes down. And that's why we get demands, Alzheimer Parkinson's, yeah, memory loss, so we increase the oxygen level in the other brain cells. And so yes, we guide people, yeah. And then after months or two, I mean, doesn't even take this long, when their chronic problems are gone, we give them the maintenance program. We tell them, Okay, in the morning, you use like programs, which like activating your body with like frequency of 25 hertz, or eight to 70 hertz for the metabolism. And in the evening, we always use programs which have frequencies from one up to three hertz, not more than that, because then we bring the brain frequencies down. And people have a good night's sleep here. And it's not like people, young people, especially now, they sleep nine or 10 hours, and they wake up in the morning tired. They're all not rested. We need to get the one and a half to two hours in the deep sleep stage. Yeah, so that's the only stage in our body where our body's resting and healing, yeah? And that's the most important thing, yeah. And I sleep four or five hours. I never get tired, you know? As I said, No jet lag, yeah. So that's what we do with our clients. Yeah, no patience. I never say patience. That's what we do with our clients. We guide them and tell them, Okay, how to use the product properly.

Speaker 7  1:31:51
So you help them with a lifelong benefit at the end of the day. PEMF, you help your clients with a lifelong benefit at the end of the day.

Speaker 6  1:32:02
Yes, and I tell you something, I've been building up so many good relationships. I mean, I have clients. My oldest one is now 96 in in Colorado, where we started, like when he was 82 he couldn't get out of bed. He had arthritis. He had low back pain. Now, when he calls me and he leaves me a message, I call back, and then, you know, he doesn't have a cell phone. He has a landline. He's old fashioned, so when he his wife picks up, she's 80 something, and I call, where's Lyle? That's his name, LYFE. Oh, this idiot. He's doing the lawn again, or shuffling the snow. Yeah. I mean, he got active and active now, yeah, so, and, you know, he's happy to hear my voice, and I'm happy that people are getting happier, because it's, you know, the it's not the money. Of course, we all like the money, but I play professional soccer, when I see results like that, and especially, we mentioned cancer before that, we save lives. Yeah, that's not scoring one goal, it's three goals. Yeah. So in this way, I'm very competitive. This fulfills my life, yeah? And I think Margarita knows I told you the story. My youngest cancer patients was three years old after chemo and radiation, now she's 14 years old. Perfect. Yeah. So this actually fulfills my life. And as you said, Yeah. And to work. And one more thing that many 1000s of clients over all these 35 years we have, they're all positive people, and we know the energies, yeah. So we don't get people who like negative energy. This, this mostly positive thinking, yeah. And now what's happening is a lot of people, and as I mentioned before, when they decide to purchase our product, we ask them, okay, what we're going to deal with? And tell me the problem we have. A lot of people now are telling us, You know what? No, no, I'm okay, but I want to use it preventive. I want to stay in the healthy stage. Yeah? So we not only get rid of problems, yeah, or diseases, we also can stay away of it, yeah? And I have one thing word. One thing is nice, okay, if you think wellness is expensive, try illness. Yeah? So that's what, that's the motto. And even I think Einstein said, okay, the future of medicine is a medicine. The frequencies,

Speaker 7  1:34:21
yeah, you add quality of LYFE to longevity.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:26
Definitely, definitely, yes. Good. So anyway, thank you so much for your time. I hope I

Speaker 1  1:34:32
didn't see too much. Thank you. No, no, thank you. I know it's 630 in the morning where you are also right. No, no, I'm

Speaker 6  1:34:40
in Hong Kong at the moment. It's already 1020 1030 Marguerite said you were the questions you can ask me now, if not, you know, contact Margarita. And so we're asking, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:34:55
he actually, he lives in Dubai. Right? Redefines, you live in Dubai?

Speaker 6  1:34:59
Yes, at the beginning of your cast. I was listening to some people about talking to Dubai. I came the first to Dubai in 1999 I saw a lot of changes. Four years ago, I moved there permanent. I mean, if I move the permanent between six months I'm there where I'm based, but the rest of the time I travel. It's a very safe seat. It's a beautiful city. I wouldn't live there, actually, if it wouldn't be for the business, because Dubai, health wise, it's a worst city to live. It's first of all, the traffic, the air, and also the radiation, because their Wi Fi is the strongest they want to have people now, got Ait G in the habitable they turn it on up, up, up here, so, but otherwise, it's a very safe city. It's clean, you know, no crimes, no nothing, little burglaries, maybe. But otherwise, yes, yeah. And of course, in the summer I spent, the last two summers, I didn't even leave, I couldn't for business, because all these spa directors and clean directors, they only had time for us when they're not busy in the summertime. It's an air conditioned country city. And I used to live in napers, Florida for 10 years. Trust me, in summer, in napers, Florida, when it gets humid, it's humid. Yeah? So Ait hot, yeah. So you get used to me?

Speaker 7  1:36:21
Yeah, Dubai is kind of chaotic this week, though.

Speaker 6  1:36:25
Yeah, I'm my son is there now, my son and my daughter, they're currently there. They say, you know, people don't care. They go to work. LYFE goes on. They hear the things, the explosions in the air. Yeah, of course, everyone is a little bit scared now, yeah, but they still think it's, you know? They still think positive. And LYFE goes on, well, hopefully, hopefully.

Speaker 6  1:36:54
Yeah, exactly, yeah. Anyway, so let's, let's thank you all for the best. So, I mean, we don't live in a nice world anymore. I mean, I mean, I'm almost 70, and when I grew up, oh my God, it was like, but now, you know, it's all about money and greed and power. It's, you know, in controlling the people, they want to digitize the money in Europe. I don't know what's happened us. So, you know, they want to steal your freedom. Yeah, it's, it's another, another good world anymore, so we have to do the best out of it, especially starting with our health, which I tell most people. But again,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:34
you got a question. Wait before you go. He's got a question. How do we buy your product?

Speaker 6  1:37:39
Contact Margarita, so she will give you all the information.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:43
Okay, yeah, you can

Speaker 3  1:37:44
go my website has a link. I have France. I think we still have the same link right on my website. Put your website in the chat there, sure, definitely.

Speaker 6  1:37:55
I mean, I can give them a let me see, it's

Speaker 3  1:37:58
Margarita wellness.com, it's really easy, actually, Margarita, and it's right on my site. Whoops, yeah, we have you guys can also contact me. Here's myself.

Speaker 6  1:38:14
We have different products. We have three different mats, and so they range from 5900 to 7900 to 7900 but I got in the lucky situation living in Dubai, and one of my best friends is from Russia. I mean, he's from Ukraine, but his wife is from Russia, and he's, like, I would say, a scientist. He has the best tools in his house, you know, from all this Russia. He works with the best scientists in Russia. And few years ago, he bought Macedon Ait, and he sent it to these Russian guys. And these two Russian guys to the magnetic frequency, they added on the genetic sound frequency, acoustic frequency, so which means our cells are not only reacting now, but also communicating with each other, yeah? And that's, that's a big change. And, you know, we upgraded all the products here, because it's a software upgrade, and all my doctors and clinics, they saw dramatic changes, faster results, basically. So that's another thing, yeah. So as I said, we have different mats, and then that now we also have the launch, which you might see on the website for Margarita. I built this because all over these years, a lot of people said, France, we love your mat, but we don't have the time to lay down for half an hour every day. But I knew, I know everyone has time to watch TV half an hour a day, yeah, or be on his phone, however, on the laptop or read a book, yeah? So finally, last year, I created this launch chair with a company. It's an Italian patent where we have withdrawing positions and also the Microvibration built in, yeah, and it's with 200 hertz Microvibration. And this feels wonderful, yeah, and yeah, it's a little bit more expensive. But, you know, clinics, they all the clinics come to me now they said, Oh, the math is expensive. And now they're asking, Okay, when can you deliver the launch? Yeah, so it's a total different feeling. But again, you know, we have the financing available in the US. But anyway, if you have these questions, Margarita will also answer them, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:40:26
And you know you have is a wonderful warranty as well. I have to say, his products are so durable. I was very, very impressed with the quality. And I've never really had any issues at all. I mean, there you could run a truck over them.

Speaker 6  1:40:40
Practical quality is important for us, because we don't want to make money by servicing them and repairing them. Now, for us, is important. People have something in their home, and you know, it's a device which You have for the next 2010, 2030, years. Yeah, my oldest device in the US is one doctor in in 1000 Mexico. And you know, he never wants to upgrade. He says, France, your machine still runs great. Seven, eight people a day. They come in. Perfect, perfect, perfect. Yeah, because I always tell him about the upgrades we had with the with the frequent and not with the extent, with more frequency now, because, in the beginning with one to 10,000 hertz, now we can go in one to 15,000 hertz. Why did we go up a little bit? Because, and this was like a few years before covid came for viral and bacterial infections. And covid, actually, for us, was like booming business, because all the doctors who work with you know, they ordered our meds for their plans, because the most of my doctors we work with, they're not vaccinated yet. But unfortunately, a lot of their patients that were had to get vaccinated to do their job go to business or fly or travel. So yes, so we also can take care of these things with the high frequencies.

Speaker 1  1:41:58
Yeah, okay. Okay. Well, thank you so much, both of you for being with us, for

Speaker 6  1:42:09
giving me some time to talk and explain, explain the technology.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:12
Yeah, anytime. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you, Margarita. Don't and don't be a stranger.

Speaker 3  1:42:17
I won't, I won't I. I definitely want to this is wonderful. What a wonderful group you have here. And we've

Bill Clearfield  1:42:24
been here since 2020 and we're here every Tuesday at 5pm same station.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:31
Well, I'm so grateful. And

Unknown Speaker  1:42:33
same link, same station,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:35
all right, same bad time, same bad channel.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:37
It's 5pm la time. Yes. Okay, okay, everybody, anybody else have any comments or questions, think we answered just about everything here, and so we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, Dr Naria will have his Tip of the Week for us, and,

Speaker 4  1:42:59
oh, just to plug Spring Fest in West Palm Beach, the April, 10 to 12. So that's our a frame spring Congress and March, 9 to 22, women's hormones. It's an online course. So all a frame activities.

Speaker 3  1:43:20
Okay, too. They, they put it on my Greek Easter, a foreign this year,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:26
Greek Easter. Okay, interesting. Well, Ait, well, I'll give you, I'll give you two myself, that we're all going to be March 20 to the 22nd in Miami with the American Academy of stem cell physicians, oh, and April 15 to 19th, also at the REL National Golf Club in Miami, with age, age management, medical group. So, so lots, lots of, lots of educational stuff coming up, but we're here every week anyway to fill in the blanks. So, okay, all right, everybody. Thank you all so much. We'll see you again next week. And anybody have any any

Speaker 3  1:44:07
questions here, usually, how many minutes do you need for each treatment? How often video we I would think we answered the ball. Okay, great.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:18
There was one question about the using it and using your device in conjunction with hyperbaric oxygen.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:26
Stack that, right? Yeah.

Speaker 6  1:44:30
So basically, all our clinics, and all especially the cancer clinics, what they do is, we know PEMF is not the only solution, and I'm not the guy who says, Okay, you only need this and nothing else. No, we need everything, yeah, important, also infrared hyperbaric chamber. You know, good nutrition. So what all the clinics do now? They start off the PEMF to open up everything, yeah? And then the next one is hyperbaric chamber, the next one is infrared sauna, yeah, and the last one, especially cancer clinics, if necessary, light chemo. But they don't do it anymore. Yeah. So when they do anything, and now what's booming in Europe especially, and yeah, also in the US, but Europe is booming now. They order our shares all these clinics with IV therapy. Of course, what you get into your body, it needs to go into your cells, yeah? So, of course, they do it in combination at the same time on our last year, yeah, so definitely, before you do anything, start with PEMF to get your body open, or you do it at the same time, yeah, okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:36
all right, any closing thoughts there? Margarita,

Speaker 3  1:45:39
I mean, there's definitely stacking modalities. You could probably even take a red light panel and just hover it over the Sedona and do your skin as well. You know it's it's quite an end to an IV if you want to save some time.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:55
Alrighty, okay. Thank you all so much. We'll see you again next week, same time, same station. I'll send you the video when it's ready. I'm going to have to do some editing there to you know, because we talked about vaccines, I'll get another strike from YouTube. That's that's certainty. So okay, so thank you all so much. Any any last comments questions?

Speaker 3  1:46:19
I mean, anyone could reach out to me if they want to text me or call me. I'm a great phone person, but I left my email in there, and then, of course, you can go to my website,

Speaker 1  1:46:29
and I know how to get in touch with you too. Yeah, of course. Thank you. Okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:35
so thank you all Dr Nario, Dr France, Dr France, Dr Margarita. Thank you so much for everything, everybody that's here, and we'll see you again next week, same time, same station. Good night.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:48
Thank you. Later. Bye, bye. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai