Bill Clearfield  04:20
How do You dare do John boy,

Unknown Speaker  04:46
yeah, man, I'm with you all the way. How

Bill Clearfield  04:49
you doing? Okay? It looks like we settled on December 3 to the sixth in Reno,

Unknown Speaker  04:59
with the Nevada Noma,

Bill Clearfield  05:01
yeah, with Noma and the Nevada so it'd be December 4, fifth and sixth. Thursday, Friday, Saturday. We kind of got squeezed a little bit for time with some of the, you know, bigger conferences going on when we had to do it before the end of the year for the Nevada homeopaths to get their credits. So so we're going to a smaller venue. It's across the street from the pepper mill. There's no casinos, there's no smoke, and we got it for $400 a day, and then we'll get the it only holds 60, though, so we'll have to do one. Hopefully we'll get some online stuff,

Speaker 1  05:53
lot of stuff happening with our research group and Dr Tano. So while you and Melvin have been blazing trails with homeopathy. We've done a book on homeo puncture, which is, yeah, okay, so, and it's a lot more than that. There's a lot of information tucked in there, and similar to some of the stuff you're doing. So hopefully you say December, 3, fourth, fifth, fourth, fifth, sixth, fourth, fifth, sixth, okay, try to remember that. Yeah. Now that I'm up and moving around a little bit, I would love to have a face to face meeting for the first time in five years.

Bill Clearfield  06:38
Well, when did we do our last one? It was 2020 or 2021?

Unknown Speaker  06:44
I don't know, is that when the CDC came in,

Bill Clearfield  06:48
CDC came in in 2018

Speaker 1  06:51
Wow, yeah, we were two years ahead of being attacked for vaccines. So,

Bill Clearfield  06:56
right, yeah, we're way ahead. We were way ahead on the attack for vaccines.

Unknown Speaker  07:01
Yeah, we were,

Bill Clearfield  07:04
so we were seven years, seven years ahead of the curve there.

Speaker 1  07:09
So we still speak the truth. I like it. So some of our guys are just real energy balls. They're very intelligent, seeking answers and doing things. Dr Quinn, have you had many discussions with him

Bill Clearfield  07:28
from time to time? Yeah, yeah. Well, he's

Speaker 1  07:31
absolutely remarkable, remarkable, remarkable and kind and respectful to everybody, but super intelligent. So, and he's been kind

Bill Clearfield  07:44
and respectful to everybody. We certainly can't have that in our group.

Speaker 1  07:48
Well, he does a good job. He can't help it. And so anyway, he's taken over the lead of the research committee, and he for all for all the right reasons. He wants to know answers what works, what doesn't work, the same way you reference 1000 different things. So it's about time we put our money where our mouth is and find out. Hi, John Dr Neustadt, hello, hello. Good evening.

Bill Clearfield  08:18
Thank you for coming again, John. We

Speaker 2  08:20
always like having you My pleasure. It's an honor that I was invited. I really appreciate the opportunity.

Bill Clearfield  08:26
So usually we get started a few minutes months, a few minutes after five. I don't know if the last time we were on with Dr Nario has been taking the integrative medicine fellowship from Dr Weil in our university of Arizona. So he always gives us a tip of the week, so

Unknown Speaker  08:48
or the leak of the week. You want me to give it out now?

Bill Clearfield  08:57
Hang on, let me see. I guess we're recording, yeah, well, it's not quite five yet, so wait another minute or two. All right, sure. Yeah, okay, and okay, so make it a good one this week.

Unknown Speaker  09:15
Yeah, you're hitting up the bar high, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  09:17
Well, you know, I'm still stuck on the bicycle seat. That was your first one.

Unknown Speaker  09:23
That should have been my finale.

Speaker 1  09:26
That's a great title leak of the week. That's very good. The

Speaker 3  09:30
leak of the Yeah, well, that's the prostate issue kind of reinforces that. Well,

Bill Clearfield  09:41
well, there you go. Okay, okay, so we're getting our crew in now,

Speaker 3  09:47
so we're looking at December, right? That's what the year kind of Yeah, December 4, fifth and sixth, yeah, just kind of heads up everyone I

Bill Clearfield  09:56
mentioned it just briefly. So, so yeah. So we need to get, we need to get credits for the for the homeo homeopath homeopaths, by the end of the year,

Unknown Speaker  10:12
I think that's where Gerber is going to come in, right.

Bill Clearfield  10:15
Yeah. So Doctor Gerber is going to come in, and Doctor Fong is going to bring Noma in also. So hopefully we'll have, you know, enough to fill the room, and we'll do it online, like we've done before. Charge less

Unknown Speaker  10:38
online, part

Bill Clearfield  10:39
do, part online. Yeah, in person, if we have some speakers online, we did. We've done that before, yeah, so we've done it previously at the pepper mill in Reno, which is, you know, one of the nicer casinos, and Dr Burgess doesn't like it because they're, you know, they do smoke there.

Speaker 1  10:58
Hey, I'm easy. I'm not complaining about anything. But now that you're mentioning we're going to do Reno online, man, I'm getting lazy already. I'm gonna hook

Bill Clearfield  11:07
up on No, not. We're not. We're not. We're not broadcasting to West Virginia or Hawaii. So wherever the hell you are, you're gonna have to show up here. I'd like to,

Speaker 1  11:20
yeah, this whole homeopathy thing is turning into just something major. And when we're talking about, you know, giving references and resources and teaching this kind of stuff, I mentioned Dr Nario, and you are the guys, man, you're the two top guys for the whole country. What's going to

Bill Clearfield  11:44
be well, we, we have, we have another fight coming up, by the way, I don't know if you've noticed that the FDA has now decided that within 12 months, they're going to ban the natural thyroid preparation, so the NP, thyroid and armor are going to be banned

Speaker 3  12:02
When? When is this? Look it up.

Bill Clearfield  12:05
They were going to ban it right immediately, but they postponed it for 12 months, so they already got rid of nature throw it, which was, you know, my favorite.

Unknown Speaker  12:19
So, how can you stock up?

Bill Clearfield  12:23
So, well, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to petition up in the remember what happened the last time we did that? We got, we got thrown out of the AOA, so, so we're not back in, so they can't throw us out again. But, you know, we got involved with the suing the governor of Nevada, because when that was with ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine, and I was, you know, at the time, the director of the American Osteopathic Society of rheumatic diseases. So I kept getting calls from reporters about hydroxychloroquine. I said, you know, it's only been around for 50 years, and this is widely used, but now, now, of course, it's no good. So yes, NP, thyroid and and the farmer are slated to be withdrawn from the market within 12 months.

Unknown Speaker  13:25
Petition the signatures again,

Bill Clearfield  13:27
yeah, so there are a couple of petitions out there already. I think we should probably get one of our own. Get get put it get put it together and start circulating it, you know, it's, you know, those are some of my, my Mainstays. And, you know, I see a lot of autoimmune thyroid issues, and the natural desiccated thyroids are much better, in my opinion, anyway, then they just, you know, levothyroxine. So levothyroxine had a recall when it was one of the, one of the generic brands this week. Also,

Unknown Speaker  14:12
armor thyroid is going to be knocked out.

Bill Clearfield  14:16
Armor thyroid and NP thyroid, the two natural desiccated thyroids,

Unknown Speaker  14:21
WP, that's still okay, right? I

Bill Clearfield  14:24
don't think you can get that one, but

Unknown Speaker  14:27
has that gone now? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  14:29
And, you know, like I said, the Major throid was my favorite because it had, you know, not just the t3 and the t4 but it had calcitonin and magnesium in it also. So and for those of you out there in TV land, what is one of the side effects of you know, dangers of long term thyroid treatment, recording cardiac Well, besides that, osteoporosis, what over osteoporosis, right?

Speaker 2  15:03
Yeah, only if it's too if it's iatrogenically induced with too high of a dose of thyroid.

Bill Clearfield  15:11
Well, well, the issue is that, you know, the thyroid makes calcitonin, which turns into calcium, and we're using levothyroxine, and that's it. You know, the thyroid makes t1, t2, t3, t4, calcitonin and magnesium. You don't, you don't replace the calcitonin. What do you think's going to happen? So over time,

Speaker 2  15:38
the my review of the research shows you know, my understanding is that the only risk with osteoporosis and thyroid is when there's a hyper thyroid condition, not with thyroid medication itself. Perhaps I missed that in the literature, but I've not seen

Bill Clearfield  15:55
that. No, that's actually, that's actually one of the one of the one of the one of the one of the complaints about the desiccated thyroid, right? But it happens process, yeah, well, that, well again, naturethroid had calcitonin in it, and so it, you know, stimulated whatever you had left to make calcium, yeah, and levothyroxine, you know, the endocrinologist, you know, baby doesn't have any of that stuff, and so they're there, you know, they that's one of the side effects of side effects of levothyroxine, is osteoporosis, if you use it for a long enough period of time. Well, if you don't replace the calcium, anything's going to happen. I mean, makes sense, right?

Speaker 2  16:46
Yep, well, well, theoretically again, but I've not seen that in the in the research, so I don't have enough information to conclude that. I'll see where I can find see if I have it in mind. I mean, there isn't if someone has a youth iron here, here

Bill Clearfield  16:59
I am arguing with, with the with the with the bone guy here.

Speaker 2  17:04
I mean, I always want to learn new things. If there's something I missed, I definitely want to understand that. But if there is a, you know, if you're even if the TSH is normal, you know, if you have a euthyroid, hypothyroid, you know, condition that is also a risk for osteoporosis. So, you know, there are different different situations and that occur, but I just have not seen it with the medication in the research, unless it's it's okay, yeah, you're getting too much Well,

Bill Clearfield  17:37
like I said, I could stand corrected, but I seem to remember that from long I mean, that's nothing new. That's from long ago. Yeah. So okay, so before we start, John, so our guest is John Neustadt, and he's been on with us before, and he's very interested in bones, bone structure. But before we start, we always like to have Dr Nario, our resident student here give us a little tip of the week from the University of Arizona's integrative medicine conference. So take it away. Dr Nario,

Speaker 3  18:12
all right. So again, another light bulb moment for me while I was doing my studies. So many patients use adaptogen blends without really knowing what's inside. And also practitioners, sometimes it feels like they're ordering a mystery smoothie. They don't know what's in it, but it must be healthy because it's green. As practitioners, we can also fall into the same habit of recommending brands instead of thinking about each adaptogens unique function. So the result, we forget the strengths of each herb, and patients might be paying extra for a blend when a single herb would do the job. So today, we'll look at three top adaptogens from the perspective of their energy profile, so stimulating or calming, so we can better match the right one to the right patient. So adaptogens work by interacting with the HPA axis, as we all know, balancing cortisol. If cortisol is too high, they bring it down. If it's too low, they help it be brought back up. So like a personal trainer for your adrenal glands, but without the yelling, of course. So top three adaptogens that so I scoured the market, and these are the top ones that were being sold and being used by clinicians. So ashwagandha always want to try to remember this is the calming restorer. So it's with Ania somnifera. It's a Zen master of adaptogens, calming and grounding, making it ideal for those wired but tired patients who are basically running on fumes and anxiety. Well, I was previously told that ashwagandha was very stimulating. Clearly, someone was thinking of maybe espresso. The literature actually shows it's about a stimulating as a warm bath. So it's calming, it improves sleep quality, even so. Just caution and just to prove that it's a calming adaptogen, avoid high doses in hyperthyroidism or even with sedatives. So unless you want your patients sleeping through the next three appointments, of course, you definitely want to remember this. So this makes ashwagandha perfect for anxiety, insomnia and burnout and fatigue and even agitation. So basically, anyone who feels like a hamster on a broken wheel, recommend a dose 300 to 600 milligrams per day, and standardized root extract and supporting this chill pill effect, solving out 2019 conducted a randomized RCT placebo controlled trial and stress healthy adults given the national gone to extract of 125 to 300 milligrams B ID, so sleep quality improved significantly. Finally, something that works better than force counting sheep. The second one is Rhodiola. So always remember this as the mental Energizer. So Rhodiola rosea. This is the Goldilocks of adaptogen, stimulating at lower doses and balancing at moderate dosing. But be careful in time with the timing and dose, though, because it has caused jitteriness if taken too late in the day or in high doses. It works by enhancing the mitochondria. Think of it as rocket fuel for your brain. But take too much and you might be awake at 3am fixing your spice rack. So this makes it particularly effective for mental fatigue and brain fog. Think of this as your go to for patients who needs cognitive clarity and mental stamina without a jittery crash of their fourth cup of coffee. So recommended dose is 200 to 400 milligrams per day, standardized to 3% Roosevelt and 1% solid. And lastly, Siberian Ginseng. So this is the stamina builder, and this is the one that's the marathon runner of adaptogens. It provides steady, long term energy support without over stimulation. Think slow release motivation instead of expresso shots, it supports adrenal function, enhances physical performance and endurance in athletes, and AIDS recovery for chronic illness. And basically it's for patients who wants to feel like they have an energy reserve tank instead of running on empty. Recommended dose 300 to 1200 milligrams per day of standardized extract. And research supports this, because the benefits includes a study of 20 trained male endurance athletes who receives eight weeks of Siberian Ginseng expect extract versus placebo, and the findings showed increased vo two Max and improved endurance time to exhaustion, so proving that even elite athletes can benefit from a little herbal coaching. So overall, ashwagandha calms and restores. Rhodiola sharpens and energizes and Siberian saying build stamina over time. So choose the right adaptogen, depending on whether your patient's stress shows up as anxious burnout, mental fatigue or low physical endurance. Matching the herb the distress pattern is where integrative medicine truly shines, and where we prove we're not just throwing expensive herbs at problems, hoping something sticks. So that's our tip or leak of the week.

Bill Clearfield  22:47
Okay, thank you. A lot of the companies have, like a as a core rhodiola, ashwagandha and Cordyceps, and then they all put something else on it, you know, to make it on, you know, unique, um, do the Aside from the core? Does it really matter?

Speaker 3  23:07
Well, those ones, for example, we always going to get told that don't give ashwagandha later during the day because it's so over stimulating. But as you can see, there's some misconceptions out there. But for me, it's a cheat sheet already. I'll just give them a blend. I don't care what the adaptogens do, so sometimes we forget that. And this is just a little reminder that these specific ones should be taken care, cared of, and be noticed by the practitioner.

Bill Clearfield  23:33
Well, didn't you just say we we should look at the specific ones, and now you now you told me you didn't care what they are. No,

Speaker 3  23:39
no, that's my which is it, right? So I don't recommend that, because I'm just cheating if I give you like ortho molecular product, right? So, but of course, this saves money for the patient too. If you give all these blends, it's more expensive, but if you have one specific target, you can use the specific herb instead,

Bill Clearfield  23:57
right? Well, you know, it depends on what's on sale that week too. All right, okay. So, so we've, we've decided on a on a date for to meet for the first time in many, many moons, in Reno on December 4 to the sixth. We're going to meet at the element hotel. It's a non, non Casino Hotel, and we're going to be we'll put the program together. You're all welcome, and anybody who is interested in presenting. We're also going to have an online component, so we've done it that that way before. We're pretty confident we'll be able to get CME credits. We also have, those of you in Nevada, if you have need homeopathic CME credits, that you'll be credited for that. And so as as this develops, we'll, we'll, we'll get, we'll get the we'll get it together as quickly as we can. But for now, since he's been waiting so patiently, we have as returning Doctor John Neustadt, and John's been with us before. John is the president of the nutritional biochemistry incorporated the supplement company NBI. He started NBI in 2006 when he couldn't find any products with the doses of nutrients shown in the clinical trials that work that he needs for his patients. He has numerous US FDA orphan drug designations for potential treatments of rare diseases. He hosts the delivering health podcast. Is a member of the bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation corporate advisory roundtable, and is treasurer of the California natural doctors naturopathic doctors Association. He's authored four books, including the one over his right shoulder, and dozens of articles on osteoporosis. 100 published research reviews this Elsevier, I guess, pronounced him as one of the top 10 cited authors in the world for his work and his fracture proof your bones a comprehensive guide to osteoporosis is something that I've dog eared because I use it almost on a daily basis. So today, John's going to talk about the gut bone interaction, and um, John, thank you again for being with us as always. It's always a pleasure. And take it away. John, you're muted and you're muted.

Speaker 2  26:34
Well, I gave my whole talk in that few seconds. Okay, sorry, guys, all right, just saying thank you for the gracious introduction. It's always nice to be back here. Let me go ahead and share my my screen, and away we'll go. So this is an on this. There are lots of, you know, integrative ways in which I think about bone health and osteoporosis. The gut bone connection is one of those connections that, unfortunately is too often missed in clinical practice. And I hope at the end of this presentation, you'll come away with, at the very least, an understanding that there are probably many of your patients who are not being screened for bone loss, osteoporosis and fracture risk, who should be, and this will open up those conversations and opportunities to to help them and protect them. These are my disclosures, as was already already mentioned, so I don't need to belabor that. And why do patients need to be protected? Well? Because osteoporosis is absolutely deadly if you are a woman 65 years or older, and you fracture a hip, there's up to a 36% chance that you're going to be dead within a year. There are different studies that have been done. The most commonly cited figure is 20% but it goes all the way up to 60% even at that 20% it is greater than the five year mortality from from breast cancer, when all stages, uh, seer stages, are combined, if you survive the first 90 days, the risk for mortality goes down. However, you know, if you are a woman, you know, with osteoporosis, or rather, with breast cancer, and you end up in the hospital with a fracture, there's an 83% higher risk that you're going to die compared to a woman with breast cancer who hasn't fractured. And every 30 seconds, somewhere, someone in the world is breaking a bone due to osteoporosis. Globally, it's a health issue that is second only to cardiovascular disease in its in its impact. Now for men, the risk of mortality is often cited as being double, about double that for women, if a man with osteoporosis breaks a hip, the risk for dying is higher. And the thought with that is because the comorbidities as men age tend to be there tend to be more comorbidities and also more severe which predisposes them to to dying. Someone with osteoporosis and liver cirrhosis, going through a hip arthroplasty has a 60% mortality risk and an 80% morbidity risk. And I mentioned the breast cancer mortality with with patients who fracture as well, and in patients with GI conditions, there are, you know, there are two things to be, I think, conscious of within the Osteoporosis world. And one is bone density, or bone loss. That is the most often cited marker that is being treated. You know, people come in with a bone density test, or they get one done, and their DEXA score shows a low T score, and that is the most common diagnostic criteria for osteopenia and osteoporosis. But that's a surrogate marker. It's just a number on a test, and the real risk is breaking a bone. A bone density test only predicts 44% of women with osteoporosis who will fracture, and only 21% of men. So looking at bone density is is, I think, an important thing to do, but I don't think it should be over emphasized in terms of terms of its clinical utility, and if that's all people are looking at and just treating that number on the test, instead of thinking more holistically and treating the patient in front of them to fully reduce their fracture risk, I believe they're missing a good opportunity, or the best opportunities, to help their patients. And you can see here that in the general public, in the US adults 50 years or older this top row, I like summary tables like this, that adults 50 years and older. For women, about 20% of osteoporosis and any bone loss. We're talking about 43% for men, about 4.4% well, how does that compare in patients with different diseases? You can see with celiac disease, there's not really fracture data that's been published, but celiac disease, up to 60% have low bone mineral density. For acid reflux, Gerd taking a proton pump inhibitor, the absolute odd risk, the absolute odds ratio for hip fracture with long term PPI therapy, and that's talking months and years, 350% 3.49 compared to somebody not on a ppi. And I'm going to review that data a little bit here with the medications. One medication that's not on here that I think is important to understand are the SSRIs and SNRIs. A lot of patients are on those. About 24% of women over 60 are on a antidepressant medication, and SSRIs are the most common category of those, a lot of patients with obviously, you know, chronic gi conditions, other chronic diseases where depression is a common comorbidity, are often put on antidepressants as well. Well. Now we know that somebody on an SSRI for one to five years. For anyone taking it for that long, we expect that for every 19 patients taking an SSRI, one will fracture. There are serotonin receptors on bone, and they activate osteoclasts. So the problem is, you artificially raise serotonin, you're messing with that delicate balance and homeostasis of bone physiology, and it results in bone destruction and increased fracture risk for IBD patients without surgical intervention, the relative risk for hip fracture is 41% elevated risk for ulcerative colitis patients and 68% for Crohn's disease. But that, depending on the research goes all the way up to 278% or 2.78 and on down the line, IBS liver disease, post gastrectomy for peptic ulcers, post gastrectomy for stomach cancer. Let me see if I get a little laser pointer here. Somehow, there it is. And uh, here we go. So Postgres to me for stomach cancer, primary Bill area, cholangitis, short bowel syndrome, all increasing the risk. So if, if bone loss is not on your radar, likely, even if they've come to you and they have a GI doc who is, who is their primary care doc for these issues, they likely have not been screened for osteoporosis. So what are the mechanisms for what I call, you know, enteropathic osteoporosis? I hope that'll become an official diagnosis, but it's currently not medications. I mentioned the SSRIs, SNRIs, PPIs, glucocorticoids, a term was coined in 2018 called immunoprosis. It's that chronic immune activation, chronic inflammatory cytokines, which directly affect bone gut and bone immune signaling interactions that includes hyper permeable gut and having particles inflammatory cytokines and particles going through and entering the circulation. Nutritional deficiencies, quite common in many of these conditions. And then microbial, you know, dysbiosis, and then hormones and hormone like molecules and that endocrine bone connection, it was celiac disease, disease. Importantly, osteoporosis can be the only presentation of celiac disease. They may not have the neurological manifestations or mood disorder or paresthesias. They may not have any GI symptoms. Osteoporosis can be the only symptom of celiac disease. So if I go through my workup and you know, I've ruled out all the common stuff, and it still seems to be a mystery, then I'll consider a celiac disease. And want to, want to look for that. And the primary mechanisms are pro inflammatory cytokines, calcium absorption, osteoclast activation. And then, of course, other micronutrient deficiencies are quite important in this picture, as they are with all diseases, iron, folic acid, b6, vitamin D, copper and zinc, all documented insufficiencies and celiac disease patients. And in fact, in the process with bone loss, you know, starts quite a while before probably somebody is diagnosed with celiac at diagnosis, low bone mineral density in newly diagnosed patients 15 to 35 years old, you know, up to 60% already have low bone mineral density, and up to 35% already have osteoporosis. So if you have a celiac patient who has not been screened for bone loss and osteoporosis, I highly recommend it. Fortunately, in young patients, when they are go on a gluten free diet, and they improve their their health. They get this treated properly. The bone mineral density does improve. There is is likely to return to normal, but there's just a lack of data for older age groups,

Speaker 2  35:58
primary biliary cholangitis. How to treat this in terms of of treatments and bone loss is not well established. And we see that over and over, the vast majority for the medications and osteoporosis have been conducted on post menopausal women with osteoporosis. And it leaves all these other secondary causes of osteoporosis, of which there are many. You know, obviously the one the diseases I'm talking about are included in that, but you have cancer treatment induced osteoporosis, male osteoporosis. There's just a lack of clinical trial data with the medications in terms of whether or not they're effective at reducing fracture risk. And an interesting aside about those medications is that, back to the bone density story, the change in bone mineral density that all the Osteoporosis medications create, the improvements in bone medication is not an indicator that it's it's actually reducing the fracture risk. So just be aware of that. Again, that surrogate marker is not as useful as most people. Most, you know, people think most marketing campaigns for the medications have us believe as well, and what also most, I think clinical guidelines also are lacking that that nuanced understanding of the research. So as I mentioned, the majority of data on you know, we don't have a lot of data on other conditions besides postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, but the researchers and clinical guidelines will extrapolate from those studies and apply them to different medical situations and conditions, and that's what We have here with primary biliary cholangitis. What we see here is that you know the mechanism of bone loss in primary biliary cholangitis is very different from the mechanism of bone loss in postmenopausal osteoporosis. As well as you know the mechanism of bone loss from proton pump induced osteoporosis and SSRI induced osteoporosis, all very different than post menopausal osteoporosis. So be very careful just prescribing a medication if you are going thinking about doing that, assuming that because it's a it's been approved for postmenopausal osteoporosis, or it's been shown to be helpful in that condition, that it that you can just layer that on to another condition. And in fact, there's a great example with proton pump inhibitors. And I'll get to in a moment where that assumption was was tried and failed. But I'll get to that slide in a little bit, the American Association for the Study of liver disease, that's the most recent data that we have. Or clinical recommendations. They're recommending Fosamax based on the postmenopausal osteoporosis literature, and then screening every two to three years with the bone density test, plus calcium and vitamin D and but a 2020 review article concluded that the bisphosphonates did not demonstrate any improvement in bone mineral density. Let's forget the fact that they didn't actually look at fractures, but didn't come didn't come didn't no improvement in bone mineral density compared to no intervention or placebo. Overall, the quality of the evidence is low. And we see that over and over again, where these clinical guidelines are coming out and the quality of the evidence is low, they're uncertain. The ratio, you know, the benefits and the doubts are uncertain, and yet they're still recommending the drugs, despite that as first line therapy. What we do have is some clinical trials as we go through of some nutrients, MK four, it's a specific form of vitamin k2 for some of these conditions, primary biliary cholangitis is one of them. It was a randomized, controlled clinical trial with 30 patients over 24 months, they were given 45 milligrams daily of MK four, no MK four. They all also received Erso Deoxycholic acid, 600 milligrams a day. And the primary outcomes were bone mineral density changes. And what we see is that at 12 months, the treatment group improved uh, statistically significant improvement in bone mineral density compared to the placebo group or the no intervention group, and at 24 months, still significantly higher bone mineral density in the group of patients taking the MK four compared to the no intervention group, post gastrectomy for stomach cancer, what we see is that osteoporotic fractures occurred a medium of 3.1 years after a gastrectomy. And in a large study, 15% of those fractures were multi site fractures, and you're talking primarily also in the elderly and chemotherapeutic patients. So like I mentioned before, comorbidities increase the risk of mortality. Well, they also can increase in different situations. If there have been other treatments that have happened, like chemotherapy patients, they can have their you get an increased risk and fractures as well. And obviously, just being older is a non modifiable risk factor for both osteoporosis and fractures, so significantly associated with osteoporosis, you can see here, you know, older age, female, total gastrectomy, and then with fractures, though not not the same. There's not a complete overlap. You know, diabetes, older age, also female, also total gastrectomy, but chemotherapy, so having other comorbidities and history of other treatments, medication treatments as well. So the American gastrointestinal Association, 2003 recommendations. It's the most recent recommendations we have. There's no difference in risk in terms of osteoporosis and terms of acid reducing procedures, no apparent risk and in the absence of gastrectomy. So there's a vago to me, they don't believe there is an increased risk for osteoporosis and fractures, and no difference in the risk and post gastrectomy depending on the procedure type. So total versus partial gastrectomy, any type of procedure increases the risk. And again, they're recommending bone mineral density measurements, calcium or bisphosphonate supplementation after at least 10 years, which is odd for me, since we see here, the median fracture occurrence is three years after gastrectomy, and they're saying, wait for 10 years. So doesn't make sense to me. If anybody has a good explanation, I'd love to hear it. Bariatric surgery patients, we'll see what, GLP ones, how much business is lost for these surgeons, and how, how low these procedures get, the decrease in those procedures over the coming years. But from 2022 in 2022 there are about 280 about 280,000 of those surgeries. The most common was the vertical sleeve gastrectomy, followed by roux en y and then revision surgeries. And what we see is that no matter which type of procedure your gut they end up with a risk of bone loss. So just one year, and not just bone loss, but nutritional deficiencies. One year after bariatric surgery, about 71% of patients had vitamin D deficiency. About 21 and a half had iron deficiency. And you can see the list here. I can tell you the patients that I've had come to me who have had bariatric surgery, not one had been recommended a nutritional support, or had had, you know, serum ferritin tested or routine monitoring of their vitamin D levels. And so, you know, it's been a while since I've worked with patients who've had this, hopefully that's changed, but my experience is that this is a population walking around at risk that is being poorly counseled by their surgeons and needs some additional integrative help to ensure that they are protected and not Just against osteoporosis by ensuring nutritional deficiencies are are corrected. But of course, all the other problems and diseases that occur because of nutritional deficiencies, and what we see though, beyond just the nutritional effects that hormone disruptions occur after bariatric surgery, so leptin decreases, leptin inhibits osteoclasts, so when you have leptin going down, you have an increase in osteoclast activity, and you get increased bone loss. And so elevated, higher leptin is associated with with bone mineral density in human studies, and this is one of the mechanisms explaining why you get bone loss in patients after bariatric surgery, and then peptide yy increases that also is a satiety signal. And when it's reduced, it's reduced in obesity and increases after bariatric surgery, and it's a negative regulator of bone formation. So essentially, as pyyy goes up, bone formation goes down. The clinical guidelines no doubt on the use of antiresorptive agents, specifically for the management of bone loss resulting from bariatric procedures, that includes bisphosphonates and denosumab or any of the other medications. For that matter, you can get a secondary hyperparathyroidism, hypocalcemia, vitamin D insufficiency, and those need to be effectively managed when starting antiresorptive agents or a bariatric procedure. Now, that's interesting. I think they should be effectively managed even without antiresorptive therapy. But that's the 2019, clinical guidelines that were for perioperative nutrition that were released by the American College of endocrinology and the American Association of clinical endocrinologists. I think they're they're missing some big opportunities here to help patients, but this is their this is their conclusion.

Speaker 2  45:51
Irritable bowel disease and bone loss can be the predominant or primary sign of IBD in children and adults. The principal mechanism still not completely understood, but it's a complex network, just like with all of these conditions, with inflammatory cytokines that influence bone destruction and that has been reported also, the etiology includes genetic factors, although that is really a squishy area for me, scientifically, there are so many genetic potential factors at play here. I've never seen any any conclusive evidence that genetic factors are the primary driver in in the in this situation, and in the vast majority of, or I would say, all bone loss in adults, obviously in young children, that can be a bigger driver. But in adults, I've yet to see any compelling information that for except for maybe a very small minority of patients, that it's primarily genetic driven medications are an issue, chronic inflation. I mentioned, sort of mentioned, all of these before IBD, bone loss and fractures, prevalence of osteoporosis, up to 77% odds ratio of fractures, 32% compared to patients without IBD, and just for hip fracture, the most dangerous type of fracture, that's the citation. Those are the numbers that were cited in the summary table towards the beginning of my presentation, 41% relative risk of hip fracture in IBD ulcerative colitis patients and 68% in Crohn's disease patients. Current steroid use is associated with a reversible 35% increase in hip fracture risk. And if somebody is on one or more opioid medications that gives a 67% increased risk. What we do know with the glucocorticoids is, once patients stop taking chronic glucocorticoids, that the bone density can will improve, but we never know if it goes back to its baseline. The other thing to be aware of with with glucocorticoids is that the risk for fractures occurs before bone density loss, bone mineral density will decline on a DEXA scan. And one of the reasons for that is because the glucocorticoids, prednisone, dexamethasone, etc, damage bone collagen, they not only decrease its production, but they the collagen that is there. They make it stiffer and more friable. And it's the collagen in bone that gives bone its ultimate strength. It's one of the explanations why bone mineral density is such a poor predictor of fractures. And so that collagen destruction with with the glucocorticoids, it will increase the risk for fractures before you get a decrease in bone mineral density. It also damages muscle microfibrils, which increases the risk for falls. 95% of fractures occur because somebody falls. So anything we can do to reduce the risk of falling can reduce the risk of fractures. And another sort of aside during my talk is that that importance of falling, of strength, balance stability cannot be underestimated. It is crucially important to focus on that. There was a study that was done that looked at the ability of a bone mineral density test to predict fractures as combined with whether somebody was strong and stable or if they swayed, and they have low split stability, and we're at a higher risk of falls. And what they found is that when fall risk was reduced, when somebody was strong and stable, the ability. Test to predict fractures went down to 5% in women and a little bit lower than that in in men. So be be aware of that when you're thinking holistically, the principal mechanisms behind reduced bone mineral density and IBD patients are still not completely understood. Again, it's a similar picture over and over. Medications, chronic inflammation, nutritional deficiencies. Here are the nutritional deficiencies, common seen in IBD patients. You see the vitamin K, 43.7% of ulcerative colitis patients and 54% of Crohn's disease patients deficient in vitamin K. And just as an aside, because I mentioned MK four already, with respect to bone health, there are two primary vitamin k2, molecules that are commercially available. Vitamin k2 is a category of vitamin k2, molecules called metaquinones, MK four and MK seven are the ones that you're probably familiar with commercially. And MK all forms of vitamin K, including vitamin k1 and MK seven and other menaquinones, they're all converted into MK four in the body. MK seven is produced by gut bacteria, whereas MK four is produced by mammals, including us, through the UB ad one enzyme and MK seven. If you look at the clinical trials with MK seven and all doses that have been studied, it's never been shown to stop or improve bone density. Stop bone loss or improve bone density. In one study, in fact, the women taking the MK seven had faster rate of bone loss at the hip. There are no fracture outcomes data for MK seven. Using MK seven, clinically none MK four. There were 25 clinical trials, repeatedly shown, as I showed you, in the primary Bill area, cholangitis, clinical trial to stop bone loss in different medical caused by different medical conditions, also from medications like glucocorticoids and androgen deprivation therapy and postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, not only to improve bone density consistently, but more importantly, to reduce fractures in by more than 70% in some studies, it's been so well studied that MK four has been approved by the Ministry of Health in Japan in the dose of 45 milligrams per day since about 1995 maybe it was 1996 for osteoporosis and bone pain caused by osteoporosis. So we were talking about the clinical trials. Dr Nori, I'm sorry if I'm pronouncing your name incorrectly. I apologize at the beginning, was talking about the types of adaptogens. Well, similarly, when it comes to different nutrients and vitamins, you know, they do have some overlapping activity the types of vitamin K, like a Venn diagram, but they also have very different activities because they're different they're different molecules, similar with vitamin E. It's a category, you know, the taco trienols and the tocopherols and the different even types of taco triennials, they don't have all the same activity in the body. So the specificity is very important when it comes to clinical trials and wanting to work with nutritional medicine and nutritional approaches with supplementation with patients, those details, I think, are

Unknown Speaker  52:50
crucially important.

Speaker 2  52:54
So treating Gio glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis 2022 guidelines from the American College of Rheumatology, like I mentioned before, you know low certainty all evidence for preventing bone loss was low or very low. The recommendations are not based on clinical trials showing medications prevented fractures, because most studies only evaluated changes in bone density, and most recommendations I had were conditional, uncertain benefits and harm. What we do see for first line therapy they're recommending is oral bisphosphonates like Fosamax. And when you look at the studies on that, the first systematic analysis was published in 2018 and it showed that it increased bone density but did not decrease fractures over any time period, all the way up to 24 months Prolia. First meta analysis was published in 2019 for glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis. Similarly, bone density went up, but it was underpowered to detect fractures. No meta analysis exists for Forteo, but it may be more effective than Fosamax, but just don't know. There are clinical trials of MK four and glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis, 45 milligrams per day. The patients were also taking prednisolone, and they have tapering dose of that over approximately six weeks. And this was a prospective, randomized, 10 week study, and the outcome was bone density, not fractures. But what we did see is that MK four preserved the bone density. There's no significant change in bone density, whereas glucocortic Only group had a significant decrease in lumbar bone mineral density. The second clinical trial patients with different kidney diseases, IgA, nephropathy, minimal change disease, etc. 60 patients were on glucocorticoids. There was a control group that all they had was their they continue the glucocorticoids, some just vitamin D is alpha calcidiel MK four group, a combination of d plus k, and then all patients just took the all patients also took the prednisolone. The result is, what you see is that there's no significant changes in bone mineral density in any other group except for the control group. Control group had a significant decrease in bone mineral density. So just taking the prednisolone alone, what you saw is in the vitamin D plus K group, you had a improvement in bone mineral density, and also in the vitamin K group and also in the vitamin D group. And that's vitamin K as as MK four, and the group D, though Group D was the vitamin D, the group D significantly increased from 9.59 to 10.2 and all other groups. There was no significant changes. So Group D did have significant changes. This is a little bit in serum calcium, not in bone mineral density. So if, even though the serum calcium went up, if it was just with vitamin D alone, if there is vitamin D combined with MENA quinone four, MK four, serum calcium did not increase. Acid blocking medications, not only can they create nutritional deficiencies, but they can also create intestinal dysbiosis. 50% of PPI prescriptions are written for just one condition, GERD. Gerd can be treated very well, frequently, with just some dietary changes, integrative approaches. So if we can avoid even prescribing those for GERD or get people off them, that's a fantastic thing. This is not new information. The FDA sent out its first FDA, its warning letter in 2010 which warned against the PPI induced risk of fractures, and that one of the earliest studies, what came out in 2006 in JAMA, that showed an association of the crude odds ratio, even just after One year of PPI use was 85% higher than patients not taking it. And the adjusted odds ratio, even still, 44% increased risk. Even for H, 2r A, histamine, two receptor antagonists, you still had an increase ratio, absolute odds ratio of hip fracture of 23% and that's something that's actually I think I've seen missed. I've had patients who are on PPIs, who are not my patients, but they're on PPIs, and I pointed out the risk, and that's probably what's causing or contributing to their osteoporosis. And I've had their doctor just want to switch them to an H, 2r, a medication, and if you have to be on one, that does seem to be a safer alternative, but it is not completely safe, and that is patients, often are not counseled about those risks. Like all medications, the longer the duration, the higher the risk, the higher the dose, frequently, the higher the risk as well. So four years of taking PPI use, you got to an odds ratio of 2.17 or 217% increase risk. The PPI induced hip fracture risk was stronger in men than in women, and when it was restricted just to patients with GERD, you've got a three, almost 350% increased risk for for hip fracture. However, in patients with GERD, H 2r A, use was not significantly associated with increased fracture risk. So you can see with this confidence interval, there actually are patients where it is increasing their fracture risk, but overall it was a non significant increase as a group. But be aware of that. You know, H 2r A may be safer alternative, but it is not without risk. What about fall and fracture risk? As I mentioned, 95% of fractures occur because somebody falls. So PPI use was significantly associated with an increased risk of falls compared to volunteers not on PPIs. And patients using a PPI the risk of falling that then resulted in them being hospitalized was significantly greater compared to those not taking proton pump inhibitors as well. In contrast, there was no significant association with the H 2r a medication the otagomet pepsin. So again, H 2r A's appear to be a safer alternative. This is a story of deciding that a medication works in one patient population, so I'm just going to use it in another patient population. And this is a cautionary tale, because bisphosphonates are FDA approved for postmenopausal with women with osteoporosis, doctors started using them for other types of osteoporosis, like PPI induced osteoporosis. Well, they decided to study that, that assumption, the assumption that it would, that would work, and not only did it not work, but it was tragically increasing fracture risk. So meta analysis of four studies, there's increased fracture risk in patients taking the PPIs plus the bisphosphonates, compared to only taking bisphosphonates alone. So those taking a PPI with a bisphosphonate, they had a 52% increase in fracture risk compared to just taking the bisphosphonate by itself, and there was no significant difference in fracture risk from patients taking different types of bisphosphates. Meaning, didn't matter that the type of bisphosphonate, all of them resulted in increasing the fracture risk in these patients. Today, no published clinical studies evaluating the use of PPIs with different other categories of osteoporosis medication. So we don't know, again, the danger of just, you know, taking one mechanism of action or one patient population and and using doing off label prescribing when the mechanism of actions for the underlying disease are totally different. Osteo immunology, so cytokines pro inflammatory or osteoclastogenic. Cytokines, you've got tumor necrosis factor alpha, you know, IL, 1678, etc. Those promote osteoclast differentiation. Not just that there are more osteoclasts around, but they live longer, and so they can do more damage. And essentially, Osteoporosis is a disease of imbalance. You have to have a healthy balance of bone, building osteoblasts and bone destroying osteoclast for healthy bone remodeling. And when that balance is not healthy and you get too much osteoclast activity, of course, you're going to get bone destruction going on. US anti osteoclast genetic cytokines, interferon alpha, interferon beta, interferon gamma, different interleukins, those all down regulate the osteoclast differentiation, and survival and proliferation. And you can see here in this, you know cytokine networks and I irritable bowel disease progression. You've got this homeostasis here on the left, where you have, you know macrophages with il 10, il 18. You know doing different. You know cytokines, and then when you get initiation and progression and T, T helper cell differentiation, more inflammatory cytokines being produced, you've got bone destruction going on, because what happens with, you know, ulcerations, or when there is hyper permeable gut, you're going to get these cytokines entering into the systemic circulation, and they can travel, then to the bone, where they directly affect the bone. You can see here the blood vessel here, and what happens is you get that direct interaction and that network between the gut and bone.

Speaker 2  1:02:34
And you can see here how it affects differentiation. If you just want a nice a nice visual here to help you, you have the mesenchymal stem cell here, and you have il 17 to tumor necrosis factor alpha rankle. And those are all stimulating osteoclast differentiation. And then you have your TLP or one TLP or two cells, interferon gamma, il four, all blocking osteoclast or decreasing osteoclast differentiation. And that got me thinking. Well, you know, if tumor necrosis factor alpha over here on the left is pro osteoclast, what about anti TNF alpha therapy? Could that be a could that help? And so I started looking at the research, and there, lo and behold, some studies out there, clinical trial with infliximab five milligrams per kilogram, and adults with Crohn's disease. They looked at lumbar bone mineral density. It did increase by about 8% compared to controls, no significant difference in the hip bone mineral density. And by the end of the study, though, there was no significant difference between the treatment group compared to the control group in patients taking prednisone. So it didn't, it didn't completely counteract, or did not counteract, the deadly effects on bone that prednisone has. But in a second clinical trial here of patients with Crohn disease taking prednisone, same dose of infliximab, five milligrams per kilogram for a year. You do you did see an increase in bone mineral density of the lumbar spine, in the femoral neck, if it had gone on like the other one to 22 months, would that bone density have decreased again? I don't know, but we are seeing some good clinical improvements in bone density. And as I've mentioned several times, bone density, it's a surrogate marker. If we can improve it, I think we should. It does have some utility in terms of predicting fracture risk, but it definitely should not be the only thing that we are focusing on, gut permeability I've mentioned a few times here. And the intestines control that molecular trafficking, you know, between the lumen and the epithelium, submucosa, through the paracellular space the gut associated lymph tissue, it is the largest immune tissue in the body. And under physiological conditions, you know molecules less than or greater than 15 angstroms do not cross through that intestinal wall. But when you have increased permeability, you have an increased range of molecules, larger molecules can get through there that increases the potential antigenic load entering the epithelium some mucosa, which then activates the systemic pro inflammatory responses, and that's the underlying mechanism, or one of them, by which you get that bone loss occurring, you also get osteoclastogenic cytokines produced by immune cells. So as I mentioned, those interleukins is pro osteoclast interleukins from the intestinal sub epithelial mucosa that then enter this systemic circulation. So any change in gut permeability can elevate levels of osteoclastogenic cytokines and decrease bone density. Microbiome effect. This is an interesting area of ongoing research, which I'm excited about, but today I'm a little over underwhelmed by the not only the research and the studies in terms of whether or not repopulating the gut or with with probiotics, or supplementing with probiotics can actually improve bone health. And I'll review some of those studies here in a moment. And this goes back to, you know, my pet peeve with the dietary supplement industry is these supplement companies are making a lot of claims out there, and you've got to be really careful and ask the right questions to ensure that they've actually been substantiated with clinically relevant or clinically relevant outcomes. And the MK seven is a great example of that. You have companies that are selling MK seven diet containing dietary supplements for bone health, and they talk how it improves under carboxylated osteocalcin or it can help, you know, promote or support bone health or bone physiology. What you'll never see is that, where they say is it actually improves bone density or maintains strong bones, as indicated by fewer fractures in clinical trials, and that's because it's never been shown to do either one. So I think becoming savvy, savvy consumers, becoming, you know, understanding the questions to ask that are most clinically relevant, teaching our patients how to ask those questions is what I'm one of the things I'm very passionate about doing, and I go through that, you know, over and over in my book, questions that people should ask, of supplement companies, of their doctors, because asking the right questions is going to help people make better decision, and it's going to help all of us as clinicians, counsel our patients more effectively. So what we have here is gut microbiota is associated with physiological bone metabolism, again, through inflammatory or with metabolic bone diseases and inflammation. Most of the studies are in mice, and they indicate that the my the gut microbiota, it's the it is a major regulator of bone mass, not just a regulator, but a major regulator. Vitamins derived from the microbes in the gut, those bacteria in the gut are potential regulators of bone matrix quality so the bacteria in the gut, healthy bacteria, will produce vitamins for us. You know, B complex vitamins, also short chain fatty acids like butyrate, propionate, those are all important for bone health as well and modulating inflammation. Microbiome is associated with systemic hormone regulation as well, including IGF one and increase in T cells in the intestinal wall that then migrate to produce increase in rankle, which then affects bone and affects bone by increasing bone breakdown. And that's what denosumab is. It's an anti wrinkle so this is actually looking at alveolar bone and I think that's a common area that's missed in there are our evaluation or people's evaluation of patients is bone health, and asking about, do they have gingivitis? Because alveolar bone loss can be an indicator of more systemic problems going on. And here you just see a nice drawing of how down here, gut microbial dysbiosis can go leak through the gut epithelium. It can get into the circulation, activate these dendritic cells, activated the immune cytokines here, th, 17, TL, 17, which then increase osteoclast precursors via wrinkle and bone breakdown, and also then going to to the bone, and also affecting the alveolar bone here internally as well. And how healthy short chain fatty acids produced by healthy gut bacteria can actually block this process from happening, as well as estrogen, which is anti inflammatory and inhibits osteoclast Another side note, estrogen. When estrogen goes down, estrogen is important for the gut absorption of MK four, Vitamin K all forms. And so when estrogen goes down, you also can get a decrease in MK four vitamin K absorption as another aside the nitrogen containing bisphosphonates, second generation bisphosphonates, like like fosa Max, they block the production of MK four. So I've got, there's all this data out there about MK four, not only improving bone density, being important for bone health, but a lot of other processes in the body, but also reducing fractures and the Fosamax, second generation bisphosphonates, I say, block our own production of the MK four, which I believe just compounds the problem microbial bone effects here. I talked about a lot of this. The challenge is, is looking at these studies is, while there is mounting evidence linking changes in the gut microbiota to the pathophysiology of osteoporosis, the studies are all over the place. So in terms of whether it's a single strain probiotic, multi strain probiotic, the duration of the treatment. And there does seem to be a duration effect as well, and that heterogeneity of studies makes it difficult to identify the correct the most beneficial bacteria in the doses and the duration that can be most helpful for for bone health, gut alveolar alveolar bone access. I talked about this so patients with GI diseases, you can see them all here. They have altered oral microbiomes enrich what are called pathobionts, organisms that can cause harm under circumstances. So here are all the families. Here of those, those bacteria and those contribute, then to periodontitis and alveolar bone loss. So it's not just dysbiosis in the intestines, but also the mouth microbiome is is important as well.

Speaker 2  1:11:53
Talked about this, we do see dysbiosis in patients with osteoporosis, and mounting evidence is linking those changes in the gut microbiota to the pathophysiology of osteoporosis. Talked about this in the last slide. So there's a lack of human studies, so all data below are drawn from my studies. And I just I did a review of the research before you know, today, recently, to see if anything more recently had been published. And I'm just very underwhelmed by the studies and the research and so all of this is still accurate. You know, the what we see is that it prevented alveolar alveolar bone loss. In rats when they were fed, we've had fermented milk containing lactobacillus helveticus, they had higher bone density than in controls. In terms of the rats, when lactobacillus Rudi I was in that increased bone mass by decreasing bone resorption, but only in male mice, not in female mice. Follow up study improve bone density in female mice, but only after surgical stress to induce pro inflammatory state. So you know, what is the the the physiological environment that is going to result in improvement in bone density, or preservation of bone health, or improvement in bone health when you when you prescribe or use a probiotic, and is it low estrogen? Is it when there's inflammation, without inflammation? All these questions, because it's such a multifactorial process, are feeding into this confusion of what might work and when. And another study showed them, lactobacillus seven, 464, 75 prevented bone loss in mice without their ovaries. Lactobacillus fermented soy milk prevented trabecular bone loss just as effectively as bisphos as a lender, Nate Fosamax in and out in an animal study, two controlled studies with 10 week old mice. So one used a single strain lactobacillus, GG, the other multi strain probiotic, both had the same results, both prevented bone loss. Both reduce gut permeability and both reduce systemic inflammation. Both formulas increase bone mass in estrogen replete mice by increasing osteogenesis. So you can you can definitely recommend this, but to say that the case is closed and we know exactly the combination that's going to work in these different situations. I think it's a little premature for that. But the bottom line is, if there is dysbiosis that is there, working to correct that, I think is, is very important, not only for whatever gi condition is there, but also for for bone health. Short chain fatty acids in bones, they affect bone metabolism. The feeding mice, short chain fatty acids in a high fiber diet, increased bone mass, decreased bone loss and improved osteoporosis. That's without providing a probiotic supplementation, just fiber, just the prebiotic, improving the fiber butyrate is, is increase osteogenic osteoblasts, increase osteoblast increase mineralization, increase alkaline phosphatase, increase osteoporterin OPG, which decreases osteoclast activity and decrease osteoclast to Genesis. Propionate, also beneficial for bones, decreases osteoclasts and short chain fatty acids. They reduce the intestinal pH, and then that allows people to improve their calcium absorption. Mediterranean diet and irritable bowel disease. So patients with IBD tend to have less bacterial diversity, lower numbers of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, which contribute to decrease butyrate production. Mediterranean diet, which is primarily a plant forward diet, so lots of fiber, mixture of vitamins and minerals and other plant nutrients, you know, stimulates bifidobacter, lactobacilli, eubacter. You know, you can see them here, all these different beneficial bacteria. And people who adhere to a greater degree to the Mediterranean diet were going to have increased levels of fecal short chain fatty acids, Prevotella and Firmicutes, low adherence associated with TMAO, which is associated with irritable bowel disease. So meta analysis showed that the higher adherence to Mediterranean diet is associated with a 21% decrease hip fracture risk and higher bone mineral density in lumbar spine, whole body and Trochanter in in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, to be clear, where that came from. Here are the components of a Mediterranean diet and their health effects in different gi conditions, so gut homeostasis. You can see all these here for time. I'm not going to belabor the point, but what they all do is they help to repair leaky gut. They help to modulate, improve and decrease inflammation. They increase beneficial short chain fat fatty acids, and decrease opportunistic bacteria. So these are and these are the different ingredients or within the Mediterranean diet, and those effects here in the liver disease, for example, and the different possible mechanisms, protein is something that is commonly overlooked. I think it's having its moment. There's a lot more light being shined on protein. And the need for protein, the US RDA for protein, for bone health and healthy muscle mass and strength is inadequate as we get older. Point eight grams per kilogram body weight per day is not a not enough for people as they age. Bone is a highly protein dependent tissue. There are 180 to 200 different proteins in bone, in addition to collagen, and so making sure that you've got enough bone enough protein is important. There's a European position statement that the amount of protein that somebody consumes, that alone can account for about two to 3% of bone mineral density just the amount of protein. So clinical trials have been done just consuming the US RDA of protein, point eight grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day, resulted in a decrease mid thigh area, muscle area over 14 weeks in the volunteers. And obviously, sarcopenia is a risk factor for falls, which, of course, is the risk factor for fractures. So research suggests minimal protein intake of one to 1.3 grams per body weight per day. Some suggestions go all the way up to two, I like as a minimum, if somebody takes their body weight in pounds, because we don't do kilograms here in the US, and multiplies it by 0.6 that's the floor. That's a minimum amount of protein somebody should be consuming during the day. The other thing to be aware of is the pattern of consumption throughout the day. As people get older, they tend to consume their protein primarily in the latter part of the day, around dinner time. And it's important. The research is showing that it's important to consume it earlier in the day, where you can get more benefits through exercise and getting that protein uptake occurring. So consuming your protein more earlier in the day, not stacking it at night, is a recommendation that I give to patients. Here's that consensus statement. I was actually wrong. I said two to 3% of bone mineral density. It's actually two to 4% of bone mineral density. And they're even saying the current usrda recommendations are ineffective or not enough. And they also do recommend exercise and, you know, calcium and vitamin D protein and all cause mortality, not specifically in GI patient populations, but in general, what we see here is total protein associate is associated with a decrease in all cause mortality and plant protein. There's an inverse dose response between plant protein and all cause mortality, so an increase 3% of from plant proteins was associated with 5% lower risk of all cause mortality. So both plant proteins, by themselves, or just total protein, doesn't seem to matter the source for mortality. However, vegans and vegetarians are at higher risk for osteoporosis than omnivores. Not all studies show that, but most of the studies show that. And the thinking is, is that in the vegans and vegetarian studies, where there is an increased risk of osteoporosis and osteopenia, the the problem with this, the the dietary intakes in those stuff, in those patient populations, is is that they weren't getting enough protein. It's harder to get that higher quantity of protein that's recommended from a vegan and vegetarian diet. It's not impossible, but please just be aware of that. I actually have patients calculate their protein intake over a couple of days, as well as their fiber intake, because I want them to get at least 30 grams of dietary fiber per day without changing anything. So calculate how much total protein, how much total fiber they're getting over a couple of days. And then we calculate, based on their body weight, what's the minimum amount of protein they should be getting. And then a minimum amount of 30 grams of diet, total fiber per day is my general recommendation for everyone, except for in very limited circumstances, but those are the recommendations, and then they transition into eating that way, over 468, weeks, whatever it takes, because it's about developing new dietary habits in eating to sustain and promote health for the rest of their life, not just

Speaker 2  1:21:32
a fad Diet. And so here's a summary. Here osteoporosis. It's under recognized under screen for in gastroenterology, the underlying path of physiological mechanisms and medications. You know, those are the common causes of secondary osteoporosis, and the underlying mechanisms include chronic inflammation, hyper permeable gut, nutritional deficiencies, dysbiosis, and then clinical recommendations. The old you may have heard of it for ours in terms of the intestinal dysbiosis, you know, kill the bad stuff, remove, rebalance the gut microbiome, re inoculate with healthy gut bacteria, and then repair the intestinal whining. Mediterranean diet with ample fiber and protein, identify and supplement with nutrients to correct for deficient for deficiencies and to supplement with those nutrients shown to preserve bone mineral density and reduce fractures and protect against medication induced bone loss by decreasing medication when possible, discontinuing them when possible, or switching to safer ones. If you have any questions after this, there's my direct email. You can also reach me through my website, some lot of articles, and this research is on there

Bill Clearfield  1:22:43
as well. And great as always. Thank you, John. I don't even have there's not even one question in the chat. I think you covered

Speaker 2  1:22:55
it all. I hope that means I did a good job versus people went to

Bill Clearfield  1:22:59
sleep during it. No, I don't think anybody went to sleep. Dr nary, you

Speaker 3  1:23:04
got anything online? Yeah, you suddenly got a chat question there. You want to get that first? Or should I go?

Bill Clearfield  1:23:12
What can you say about the FMT that

Speaker 2  1:23:16
fecal microbial transplant. I think it's an exciting area of research. I think it hasn't been shown yet for osteoporosis, but I do think it's an exciting area to watch.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:27
Okay, is there a risk for fracture effect from SSRIs and the way at s no five, from h5 HTP, the way there are with SSRIs,

Speaker 2  1:23:38
there doesn't, there does not appear to be. And I've taught there's no research with that conclusion. But I've talked to some you know, experts in gastroenterology who are also experts in nutritional medicine, like Eric Yarnell, if you know dr Yarnell at all. And because of the way that the, you know, five HTP is metabolized because of negative feedback loops. He's not concerned of it at all. And I've never seen any research that's problematic. I personally prefer l tryptophan supplementation because the rate limiting step and the conversion of that pathway down to serotonin is the conversion of L tryptophan to five. HTP, so even if there is a theoretical risk of that with five, HTP, that would, that would obviate it through a that negative feedback of that conversion of to five. HTP,

Bill Clearfield  1:24:30
okay. Dr Freeland says I might have missed it. D3, with k2, okay.

Speaker 2  1:24:36
So it yes that that actually is good, and it depends on the type of k2 the research supports MK four plus d3 so there are clinical trials of mk 445, milligrams per day with d3 showing not with fracture outcomes. And the studies are primarily in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, but the the improvement in bone density in the patients taking the 45 milligrams of MK four with d3 was significantly greater than the patients taking MK four alone. In the study that combined MK four with d3 you also that I shared, there was also a greater improvement or preservation of bone density than in the patients taking the MK four or the d3 alone, and you also do not have the increase in serum calcium that occurs with the d3 that

Speaker 3  1:25:27
can occur with d3 alone. I think the I think the hype about MK seven came from the conversation the cardiovascular outcomes because of the matrix GLA protein, so that they would prevent the, I think, the calcification of arteries in relation to to cardiovascular maintenance. So, but now I'm understanding that MK four, if you want to focus on bone health, that's a better form of MK to use, is that correct?

Speaker 2  1:25:57
That is correct. I have a whole presentation, ce talk that I gave on clarifying the vitamin K confusion that reviews of the studies on MK seven and vitamin k1 and MK four for cardiovascular health. And so yes, to answer your question directly, MK four is the nutrient and for the dose of 45 milligrams per day, that is most supported by the research when it for for bone health, when it comes to bone density, but more importantly, fracture outcomes, maintaining bone strength. Now comment on, just briefly, on your what you said about matrix glycoprotein, that's a surrogate marker. And I think it's important for us all to just be very careful of treating surrogate markers, and instead of looking for the clinical outcomes that we're actually trying to prevent or reverse. So what we see in the clinical trials with MK seven and coronary artery calcifications is that there's no consistent benefit. There was only one study, the where, in one study where it was helpful at slowing down coronary artery calcification not reversing it was in patients that already had a coronary artery calcium score above, I think it was above 400 I'd have to check on that but, but they already had coronary artery calcification above a certain threshold, and only in those patients did it slow it down more consistently in different patient populations, and the most, the vast majority of those studies have been conducted in patients with kidney diseases, but more often, what we see, even if there's not an improvement in coronary artery calcifications, is an improvement in pulse wave velocity, that arterial distance ability improves, and you see that there's only there are more studies with MK seven when it comes to Cardiovascular Health. Most of them were negative. So no association with matrix glycoprotein, and the clinical outcomes they were looking at in most of those studies, no association with PIV cat two, for example, a vitamin K dependent protein. And the outcomes in those clinical trials, with the MK four study, they you did still see it in an advancement or progression of coronary artery calcification. But that progression may have been slowed because it was actually at a lower rate than that sort of background expected rate in the general population, but it was a poorly designed study, and I think with the MK seven, and I think those claims that are being made by dietary supplement companies in terms of clinical outcomes are premature, and I don't think the published research supports those, those health claims.

Speaker 3  1:28:45
So by itself, MK four can definitely stand as a standalone for osteoporosis prevention, or is it always needed? Needed to be combined with

Speaker 2  1:28:58
vitamin D. It doesn't always need to be combined with vitamin D. The research with mk 445, milligrams per day showed that by itself, it can be very helpful in improving bone density and maintaining bone strength and but also, what we see with the vitamin D is, vitamin D at a serum concentration of 30 to 44 nanograms per milliliter, is associated with the maximum reduction in hip fracture risk, and you do see synergistic benefits in terms of even greater improvements in bone density When vitamin D is combined with the MK four.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:41
Okay, there's a question about BPC 157, 500 milligrams, twice a day I'm taking that's

Speaker 2  1:29:46
the oral form. I don't know anything about that. I've seen it advertised, but I don't know the research

Bill Clearfield  1:29:51
on it. Yeah, there's, there's some GI, you know, upper GI, calming effects with the BPC. So it's intrinsic factor. I believe it was actually discovered by Pavlov in

Speaker 2  1:30:08
1904 intrinsic factor, which is for, well, it was ocean.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:13
It was, yeah, it was a he didn't know exactly what it was. It wasn't identified till about 10 years after his death, and it wasn't really isolated as BPC 157 till 1993 so the oral form is useful for a GERD upper GI inflammation. The injectable form is more for we use it for joint pain and, you know, localized inflammation. So, yeah,

Speaker 4  1:30:46
I heard for leaky gut, it's also good and decreases inflammation. And it's good for the brain too, for the nerves, and promotes an angiogenesis.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:01
We use some other other peptides for that. It certainly wouldn't hurt.

Speaker 2  1:31:07
I think peptide therapy like FMT is a promising area. I've not seen much research on it, but I think there is one study in this is not peptide theory, but exosomes in rats that showed improvement in bone density. I think that that deal these areas of research are very exciting. I just have not

Bill Clearfield  1:31:28
seen, you know, we've we've human we've used the peptides in our practice for almost 20 years, and we've had very good success with it. And we actually added the BPC to the GLP ones four or five years ago when we first had him compounded, and we started doing the mini doses, and

Speaker 2  1:31:46
we had really great I'm talking just for bone health. I don't you know bone health, right? That's all I'm my comments are very narrowly focused, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:31:54
I don't know. I won't, I won't go off on that tangent. Dr, dr Nario, do you have any any email?

Speaker 3  1:32:00
Yes, yes. So the this is a good question for I mean, I'm curious about it, because DEXA scans as you said, as it sounds like. It doesn't give much credibility to where your real BMD would be. It's almost like late stage, and there. Now we have what we call bone turnover markers through blood. So this would be your CRM, CTX, p1, and P, um, where does, where does this stand in terms of, how do we use this clinically? Because we know that Medicare probably wouldn't pay for your DEXA scans every year, I think every two years, and they have specific, I guess, requirements for you to get it if you defy those every two years, like low body weight, fire, fracture history, smoking. So where do you stand on the recommendation for clinicians in the use of these bone turnover

Speaker 2  1:32:51
markers? So if this group is interested, I do have another talk on CE talk on testing on an osteoporosis testing

Bill Clearfield  1:33:00
and what do you what are you doing in November,

Speaker 2  1:33:04
coming here, coming back here. So here's my take on any of the testing. The greatest value doesn't matter what the test is. In my opinion, the greatest value of any of the tests is to raise awareness and open the conversation, because the major risk factors for fractures in osteoporosis are not directly related to any tests. So there with there are only two bone turnover markers that are recommended by the International was a Society for Clinical Laboratory chemistry, CTX and p1 NP, those. That's it. And there's a lot of challenge when it comes to those bone turnover markers. And there are a lot of them. There's analytical variability. So the coefficient of variation for some of the tests, intra assay can be 1520, plus percent. There's time of year has an effect. So bone turnover is greater in the winter than in the summer. So if you test bone turnover markers in the winter and you compare it to the summer, well they're going to be probably going to be higher, because just natural annual fluctuations. There's diurnal fluctuations, which is why we test it in the morning, fasting. If somebody's had a fracture in the last 12 months, bone turnover markers can be elevated. If they have any systemic sclerosis going on, or systemic connective tissue disorder, then bone turnover markers can be elevated. There are no outcomes data showing that just changing a bone turnover marker reduces fracture risk. What I use them for clinically is more to help patients stay motivated and engaged in their own healthcare. Because, like I said, for me, the best value is whether or not of these tests is to raise awareness for patients. So as you correctly pointed out, Dr Nario that the testing for bone mineral density test is only every, you know, maybe 18 to 24 months, typically. And so those bone turnover, the bone mineral density changes are going to happen over a much longer period of time, whereas the the bone turnover markers will change much quicker. And by the way, you can have the bone the CTX, for example, bone destruction happens much faster than bone creation. So you can have that bone destruction, the CTX increasing over the course of, you know, a few weeks, whereas it's going to take a few months for those bone turnover markers to come down. So you can, you can, or for those bone anabolic markers, like p1 MP, to go up, so you can, so I would test if, really, I give a patient an option, if they want to know, like I can give collagen MK four and vitamin d3 you know, hydrolyzed collagen, those have all been shown to reduce CTX and p1 MP, so we can do that. But you know, then you're looking at other markers, look MK seven will probably bring down CTX, but MK seven does not improve bone density, right? It's never been shown to reduce fractures. So again, we're talking about a surrogate marker. And how much weight do we put into a surrogate marker versus the real clinical outcome? What does the data show in terms of fracture prevention, and it just doesn't support I change one turnover marker, and suddenly I'm getting this magical reduction in fracture. No, it's diet, sleep, exercise, stress reduction, dietary supplementation, getting risk factors are destroying bone, removing them, and then those, those, for me, at least the bone turnover markers in any other testing is just there to help people stay motivated, or that show they're on the right path, because people do want to see something. It does help them having a number on a test, and I understand that, but clinically, they're not as valuable. The research does not set show that they are as valuable as most clinicians with whom I talk claim they are. And I'll give you another example. I've had some clinicians talk about the using the ratio of bone turnover markers to predict whether somebody is a fast bone loser or a slow bone loser, whether they're losing bone quickly or slowly. I had a patient come to me just totally freaked out, completely anxious. They were told that they're they're they're losing bone quickly because of the ratio of their bone turnover markers, that analysis, the research shows, is no better than a flip of a coin it can at telling people whether they're losing bone quickly or slowly, and I think it's doing a disservice to patients and and creating anxiety for something that they really can't control very well, and telling them that they're lose losing bone quickly when, when, literally, it is no more accurate than 5050, of whether they are losing

Speaker 3  1:38:15
bone Fast or not, right? And that's the problem with these testings. There's so many external factors that can determine the outcome of these tests, and even it's almost like HSC or P you have another inflammatory area of your body and you test it, and that also is definitely not going to be accurate. So as you said, yeah, definitely. We definitely need to back it up with studies in fracture risks really going down if we correlate it

Speaker 2  1:38:40
with that. I do like you mentioned. CRP, so I do like, I do think in terms of value of testing like, CRP, you know, just like with PSA for prostate, you know, it's, it's more the Delta, the trend over time that I that I think is more important than any one specific

Speaker 3  1:38:56
test result, right? Here's one. So we're all hormone users here, or aficionados of hormones. So I've always heard of this that estrogen helps with osteoporosis. Can it stand alone in terms of treating osteoporotic patients? Or should it be something preventative, or should it be with base phosphonates without base phosphonates? What is the more effective approach with

Speaker 2  1:39:22
estrogens? So estrogen is FDA approved for the prevention of osteoporosis. The research shows that in perimenopausal women starting hormone replacement therapy, that you can get a 28% overall. It's associated with 28% overall reduction in osteoporotic fractures if they start at 60 years or older. There's no data that it's that it's beneficial. So really, starting at perimenopause seems to be the most beneficial time period. You know, I don't know if studies that have have looked at that sort of nuanced of a question, or tried to answer it, bisphosphonates plus estrogen, without estrogen, and comparing the two, I can tell you as a standalone for the primary prevention of osteoporosis, bisphosphonates do a horrible job. So the vast majority of the studies out there for secondary fracture prevention, for primary fracture prevention, what you see with bisphosphonates is about a 43% relative risk decrease in vertebral fracture risk but but no hip fracture risk reduction. The problem is, is that about 70% of of bisphosphonate users discontinue after a year, 60 70% because it takes, it takes 80 you have to take the medication 80% of the time to get the benefits. So you've got a majority of the patients, or maybe it's like 60% you know, stopping, discontinuing after a year because of the side effects. So the medication possession rate for bisphosphonates is quite low. So the number, when you look at these very contrived clinical trials, and where you know controlled very strict inclusion exclusion criteria, the researchers looked at a series of patients coming into their their medical clinics years ago, and compared those to the inclusion and exclusion criteria of, I think it was four large osteoporosis drug clinical trials, and the vast majority of those patients, very few of them, I should say, would have actually been included in those studies. So the real world application of these bisphosphonates do not correspond to the patient populations that were treated. And what we see in the real world, and there have been some meta analysis have done that looked at the real world. Use of these is that they don't, they don't actually work for the primary prevention of both vertebral and hip fractures. So they're, they're, they're not as useful as I think a lot of people are, you know, expect them to be for secondary prevention, they're better. But if you look at the absolute risk reduction with the bisphosphonate for vertebral fracture, for example, it's about 1.1% the absolute risk reduction. So, you know, take that for

Speaker 3  1:42:13
what it's worth. Yeah. And then also, when in the use of estrogen. I've seen studies that I think more of the backing in literature is related more for we use a lot of creams. I mean, we compound, but really the studies are behind the recommended FDA forms, such as the patch or they have oral estrogen also. So that's why, I think one of the questions here was, what about studies about, yeah, estrogen creams. I think that's what I can contribute to that. But on your end, what can you say about that specific question?

Speaker 2  1:42:45
I don't have a lot to say with respect to bone health and bone density. What I do know is that for hypo Arousal Syndrome, you know, disorder in perimenopausal women, no libido, also women experiencing decreased cognition, decreased mood. There was a four month study that was done using transdermal estradiol, and it did show, I think it was 52% of the women improved in significant, significant improvements in their libido, a little lower percentage in mood and still significant, but a little lower percentage in cognition as well. I don't know of clinical trials with fractures or bone density. Specifically

Speaker 3  1:43:35
with that right. Here's a I

Speaker 2  1:43:38
don't know if we're on hormones, can I just mention male osteoporosis and hormones for a moment? Oh, sure, definitely. We like that. One of the things clinically that I see missed a lot is that men are not being getting their estradiol tested. So it's the testosterone is, you know, converted to estradiol, and it's the estradiol that is primarily responsible for maintaining bone density and bone strength, both in men and in women. So looking at the testosterone as well as the estradiol is important, and then modulating the testosterone so that the it stays in the physiological range, but also to ensure the estradiol is above 20, seems to be the optimal for male

Speaker 3  1:44:29
bone health. I think Dr Bill has, yeah, he had encountered this,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:35
right? We know all about that. We've had a revolution in estrogen, and estrogen, you know, and aromatase, using aromatase inhibitors in the last three, two to three years. And also, Dr nary, you should know, and we do not use oral

Speaker 3  1:44:52
estradiol. Oh, yes, but those are just you mentioned

Bill Clearfield  1:44:58
it. That's one. That's one of those. That's one of those. Almost never, yeah, so,

Speaker 3  1:45:04
okay, um, here's a curious question. So calcium, we always hear about the controversies about it, don't take it, because it's going to be something bad for your arteries. Um, it's okay if you're osteopenic, it's okay for prevention, calcium by itself. Just take it when you have osteoporosis, what's your final take on calcium?

Speaker 2  1:45:26
So I think that it's over supplemented. I think that, and when it is supplemented, I think that it's oftentimes too high of a dose. The current position statement of the bone health and Osteoporosis Foundation and the American College for preventative Cardiology is that calcium up to the limits set by the National Academies of medicine of 2000 to 2500 milligrams per day, should be considered safe. The challenge is that most people are just giving blanket recommendations of 1000 or 1200 milligrams or still, I've even seen 1500 milligrams of calcium as a supplement to their patients, when really we're talking about calcium from all sources. So that total amount of calcium, the US RDA, of 1200 milligrams per day in women and 1000 milligrams per day in men, is from all sources, diet, plus dietary supplements. The average American woman consumes about 800 milligrams of calcium in her diet per day. So the if just the average American woman, if you don't want to take the time to really try and calculate precisely how much calcium she's getting, a dietary supplement with 400 milligrams per day of calcium is considered both safe and would get her into that range of 1200 milligrams per day. Usrda range above that there's no benefit, improved benefit for bone health, but still be nowhere near any toxic range for men, most, the average American man consumes about 1000 milligrams of calcium in his diet per day. So for the average American man, they really don't need calcium as a dietary supplement. Now, the important thing with calcium is that it also needs to be there for the bone benefits with vitamin D. So I never look at calcium alone. I'm always wanting to test vitamin D and then supplement as appropriate.

Speaker 3  1:47:24
You're not. Are you a big fan of the citrate? Like the I am

Speaker 2  1:47:30
citrate? Yes, I calcium. Citrate is my preferred form of calcium because it's it is absorbed in a basic pH, in a more basic pH, hypochlorhydria and an achorhydria are more common with patients as they age, with patients with GI conditions, autoimmune diseases, obviously on acid blocking medications as well. And so with those patients, calcium citrate, you'll get the absorption. But also, if somebody has oxalate kidney stones, it's the citrate form that is the recommended form, which that does not increase the risk of oxalate

Speaker 3  1:48:07
stem formation. So it doesn't matter if it's hydroxyapatite or those higher types of calcium or citrate can definitely get you by. So

Speaker 2  1:48:17
it depends on what we're talking about. So if you're talking about fractures, there is no indication that one form of calcium is superior to another form when it comes to fractures, there's also no indication that one form of calcium is superior to another form when it comes to bone density. So I look more at absorbability, gi tolerance, safety, kidney issues, and that's why you know calcium citrate for me, you know, checks

Speaker 3  1:48:46
all those boxes, right? Okay, so this is my last question on my list. So you mentioned about GLP ones a while ago. So GLP ones has been noted to produce sarcopenia. Are there studies that have also been affecting bone as well? So this is something harder to assess, because sarcopenia, we can assess that through calipers, through observation, even the weight loss. But how about bone? Is that something getting affected by these wonder drugs

Speaker 2  1:49:09
out there? So I looked at that a while ago. It's been a few months the at that time, the research showed no

Unknown Speaker  1:49:15
effect on bone All right, that's good. So that's not part of that weight loss, then so,

Speaker 2  1:49:22
well, so, so commonly, what we see with people with obesity, when they lose weight, they do lose bone density, because they're oftentimes on a Hypo caloric diet, right? And so, but once they stay their bone they stabilize in terms of their caloric intake, and they get to that weight, the bone density tends to go back up. But the GLP ones alone, by themselves, you'll are those causing bone loss? To my knowledge, the current evidence is saying no, but I, you know, I think it's needs to be studied more, but currently, I think is the answers now, well,

Speaker 3  1:50:02
thank you, Dr Ustad, that you got all my questions out of the out of the ballpark here, home

Bill Clearfield  1:50:06
runs. Thank you. Yep, a couple more here. So what about intra nasal calcitonin?

Speaker 2  1:50:11
I like intranasal calcitonin for people with vertebral fractures healing from vertebral fractures. Other than that, you know, maybe as an adjunct, I It's been many years since I've used it, and it's been primarily in that situation of just, you know, healing from a fracture, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:50:32
And then the question about magnesium, boron, zinc and strontium. So

Speaker 2  1:50:37
I go back to the question. So I view all of the every whether it's a drug or dietary supplement, through the lens of, has it been shown to reduce fractures in prospective clinical trials? That's the bottom line. If it hasn't well, has it at least been shown to improve bone density. But as we know, bone density does not equal fracture reduction. There's not a one to one relationship there, or doesn't necessarily equal fracture reduction, magnesium, zinc, copper, boron, none of these have been shown to reduce fractures in clinical trials there as a I think, as the North American menopause society updated position statement on osteoporosis, and they they mentioned magnesium in there, and a study from 1990 and this is where, going back to the primary data, I really encourage people, when They read a review article to pull up the primary studies, because oftentimes the primary studies are misinterpreted and misquoted. And an example of that is this magnesium study from the 1990 that gave magnesium oxide. It was shown to improve bone density, but it's been misquoted as being shown to actually reduce fractures, but it was underpowered to detect fractures. So that's the only study on magnesium as a dietary supplement. Magnesium intake from food has been shown in sudden studies to have an association, and other studies have no association with bone density, and there are no studies looking at fractures as an outcome. So I in the studies with the MK four, we're talking about over 70% reduction in fractures. You know, there's no other magnesium, coppers in any other nutrients given, except for vitamin D and calcium in some of these studies. So that's where I land on, on that with with boron that there, it's interesting, because that boron became popular because of a study that showed that there was increased calcium excretion when boron was was low and but what was missing from that analysis is that happened only when magnesium was also low. So, you know, the all these, you know, treating just based on associations, I think is, is a slippery slope. And you've got a lot of supplement companies that have everything but the kitchen sink, and they're in their in their product because it changes a molecular marker, because there's some association with calcium excretion. Well, calcium excretion in the kidneys does not necessarily equal osteoporosis, and so I look for fracture outcome data. Strontium does have fracture outcome data on it. There are only four nutrients actually that have fracture outcome data in it, in prospective clinical trials, calcium and vitamin D, MK four and strontium, strontium. Every study on strontium was done as strontium on strontium ranol Eight, which is a medication in Europe. There are five or six large clinical trials in Europe on strontium ran late. All but one show that it only prevented vertebral fractures, about the same as an oral bisphosphonate like Fosamax, and there was no hip fracture prevention. Only one of the studies showed hip fracture prevention, so it's questionable whether hip fractures actually prevented. Now in the United States, strontium ranilate is not available. It's available as Strontium Citrate, the dietary supplement. There are no clinical trials, zero clinical trials on Strontium Citrate for efficacy and safety. So what these companies are doing, and we can do the same thing, is, okay, let's assume that the Strontium Citrate is equivalent to the strontium randomly. So we have to just, I think, be very honest of what we know, what we don't know, and what we're assuming. So we're going to assume that the Strontium Citrate is equal to strontium randomly. So what we know is that it definitely can reduce vertebral fracture risk, maybe reduces hip fracture risk, but the majority of the data showed that it doesn't this is in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. But what we also know is that it gives false bone density test results. So Strontium is a mineral and incorporates into the bone, and like calcium and these accurate X rays bounce off the minerals. And that refractive index, that angle at which it bounces off, that's what's detected by the machines. And it does its works its magic, and spits out the T scores and Z scores. And in in Europe, for the because it's a medication, they can correct for that. In the US it, we don't know how to those machines don't do it. Radiologists don't know how to do it. And so the bone density test results are in inaccurate. Now i i, despite the limitations of the bone density test, I do want them to be accurate, the ones I'm looking at, but again, that's not as important as a fracture reduction. So assuming the Strontium Citrate is as effective as strontium ranolate, we're getting about the same fracture reduction as Fosamax. But what about safety? Can a lot of these companies, unfortunately, and I think it's disingenuous, are saying, well, it's just as effective as the strontium ran late, but we're going to say that it's safer without any data. So I think that's disingenuous. What did the Safety Data show for strontium? Ranilly? What the Safety Data show is that for every one fracture that was prevented, it caused a blood clot that can produce a heart attack or a stroke, a DVT, for every one fracture that's prevented is potentially killing somebody else. And so they actually require, you know, or it's recommended, to have, you know, thorough cardiovascular risk screening before prescribing that medication. In Europe, it was taken off the market in some countries for a while, and so. And in the US, you know, people are just taking the Strontium Citrate as a dietary supplement, no screening, no safety data on on that new on that form of strontium and so. And also, because it gets false bone density tests, it's also not as effective as what we've seen with MK four on the combination of MK four, calcium and vitamin D, and for those reasons, I'm just not a fan of strontium. And

Speaker 2  1:57:08
if anybody wants all those studies and summaries, it's in another presentation. I've got, I'm happy to send you those slides. I've got all the citations, I've got all the PDFs. If anybody wants more information, or really about anything that I've said, just, just let me know I'd be happy

Bill Clearfield  1:57:20
to share it. Yeah, we'll, we'll, after we turn off the video, we'll get your website up here. Somebody asked about chondroitin sulfate. I

Speaker 2  1:57:30
don't know of any research on bone health for that. I've never looked either, but I, but I, don't what I can say is there's no fracture studies on it because I have searched PubMed and glucose scholar for nutrients, nutritional medicine, fractures, osteoporosis.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:50
Okay, that's pretty much all I have here. And any final word there. Dr Neustadt,

Speaker 2  1:58:00
look, I think that ultimately it's it's this holistic approach gives superior results. And like I mentioned before, so much of fracture risk is independent of tests, and the tests are important, but it's one small piece of a larger puzzle, and the more we can empower patients to make those changes in their lifestyle and health, and things that have been shown to reduce fractures, the healthier they're going to be, not just in the for bone health, but in all domains. Everything that I've talked about in terms of diet, I didn't even talk about sleep, I didn't talk about exercise, and the research on that, you know, they also reduce the risk for cancer, disease and dementia, and, you know, on and on and on,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:45
right? Okay, um, one last question from me. Um, what went wrong with the bisphosphonates? So back in the day, when they first came out, I was in a, I was in a real, real medical doctor group, you know, the insurance base and and you had certain criteria you had to meet. And one of them was almost as soon as they came out, if you had a perimenal or postmenopausal woman, and you didn't order a DEXA scan and with treat, with the bisphosphonates, you you know you were, you were in the bad category. So, so where did

Speaker 2  1:59:22
they go wrong? So it actually dates back, I think, to the history of osteoporosis and how it's defined. So osteoporosis in the 1940s there was a doctor at, I think it's Massachusetts General Hospital that removed the ovaries from pigeons, and saw the bone become more porous. He termed this less bone in bone. And so that set the stage, and that was through an x ray. So that set the stage for bone density ending up being the diagnostic criteria for osteoporosis. That definition was code of codified, formalized in the 1990s by the World Health Organization as osteopenia being a t score of net minus one to minus 2.5 and osteoporosis of minus 2.5 and lower

Bill Clearfield  2:00:11
and the

Speaker 2  2:00:15
and so it became the focus, not just of diagnosis, but insurance reimbursement. And now with things moving towards health outcomes, types reimbursement, that marker, that bone density, it's even more entrenched in the conventional paradigm of osteoporosis, of changing that, that marker and the bone the bisphosphonates, the assumption was, if we improve bone density, well, we're treating we're treating osteoporosis, we're improving osteoporosis, and we're reducing fracture risk. Well, the bisphosphonates showed that they improve bone density, but then more research started coming out, looking at fractures and fracture risk and showing that, yes, for secondary fractures they can prevent, they're fairly good at preventing secondary fractures, but not not as good for primary fracture prevention. And you know, I think where it went wrong is just this, then you've got this whole medical, legal, Healthcare Association, clinical guidelines, everything based on that foundation of this, that study from the 1940s and that's a very difficult cycle to break.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:34
Yes, another one would be that the testosterone causes prostate cancer. That also came from a report in the 1940s that's another story. That's

Speaker 2  2:01:43
another story, correct or Forteo increases the risk for multiple myeloma. That came from a couple of rat studies where they gave, like, hundreds of times the dose of what any humans ever been. There's a black box warning now on on it, and yet, millions of doses have been given out, and studies have looked at this, and there's no risk in the real life, use of Forteo, of bone cancer, yet there's still a black box warning on it.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:11
Well, we had a black box warning on testosterone for 15 years after those bogus studies, too. They just came. They just came off. Okay, so thank you so much, and great as always. We really appreciate you being with us, and we'll see folks next time. Okay, video is off, so John, you want to give your company, you want to either put it in the chat or your email address, and I'm going to send you everybody's contact that was on tonight. And I have, depending on which, which ones I have your your contacts, obviously. And got a lot of kudos for you there. Thank you. Lot of lot of lot of lot of you know, what, what a you know, great. You know information. You've always, you've always partaken

Speaker 2  2:03:08
to us. So if I, if I may just say, like I got started on this about 20, over 20 years ago, because my mother in law fell with osteoporosis while taking Fosamax. Her bone density had been going up, so I was happy at the time. That's all I knew. Her physician was happy. She was happy, and then she fell and fractured her hip. And I thought, something's wrong with this picture. And in fact, osteoporosis, drug therapy failure, is defined as having two or more fractures. So somebody hasn't even failed drug therapy unless they've had two or more fractures, and so, but she fractured, and I thought something's wrong with this picture, so I really started to dive into the research, and have just haven't stopped. And that's a I had just so everybody knows, like, because I mentioned in the beginning, my company and I have a product for osteoporosis. It was the first clinical trial dose of MK four available in the country. I brought it over from from Japan, 45 milligrams of vitamin d3 and calcium. There are three different versions of that product now, just with different amounts of calcium. My company guarantees that within six months of taking any of our bone support products, bone density will stabilize or improve, but more importantly, it'll maintain strong bones, meaning that if somebody breaks a bone, we'll refund their money for all qualifying purchases between their bone density tests, because we've been dealing with this for pain. Had the products on the market for 20 years, almost 20 years now, and the incredible body of research on MK four and vitamin D and calcium are you in fullscript? Yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:41
it's the NBI product. Is

Speaker 2  2:04:43
that you show? Yeah, the product line is osteo K, osteo K minis and osteo dash MK four. And NBI is the company nutritional biochemistry Incorporated, if you search on fullscript in their catalog, just NBI will pop up. You click on it every all of our products that are in their catalog will show up wholesale accounts direct with us, with quantity discounts

Speaker 3  2:05:05
as well. Where do we get protocols? Just straight from you, we're going to text your cell

Speaker 2  2:05:10
phone and you're going to that's a great question. I'm happy to I don't have them written out. Unfortunately, I am be working on a course, online course that we've now talking should be ready the first quarter, maybe January of next year. We'll have some of those, you know, testing protocols and supplementation protocols and everything lined up, but, but that's a great kick in the butt for me. If you want that, please. You know, send me a request. I'll put something together, and it'll help me make that. I'll create something for you and send it back to you that just

Speaker 3  2:05:49
helped me move this us lazy doctors will benefit from protocols,

Speaker 2  2:05:53
because we can do everything. It's just, I know everybody's super busy. All right,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:00
okay, anything else? Dr Nario, so

Unknown Speaker  2:06:05
no, I got all the questions done

Bill Clearfield  2:06:07
on my end again. Dr Gerber, you weren't on it looks like we're going to do our thing November, rather December, 4 to sixth at the element Hotel. We'll get together with you to coordinate with your group.

Speaker 5  2:06:20
Also, can the doctor show us? Can the doctor show his slide again that hit his email and contact information? Sure.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:29
Here it is in the chat. If you put it, you look in the chat, it's there. I

Speaker 2  2:06:40
over there. Thanks. And if you do want me back in November, you know, talk about testing. Talk about,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:47
yeah, I got you down for November 11. Oh,

Speaker 2  2:06:49
I don't know if I'm in town. All right. Well, we'll work around. Are you going to be at ammg? By the way, I will, yes, I'll see you there, and in Salt Lake, maybe, maybe I get to introduce you again. I'm not speaking this time. I'm just going to be exhibiting, and I'm going to introduce you anyway. Okay, I'll send folks your way. I would love that. I would love that. But, yeah, I'll see you. I'll see you there. And if anybody here is going to be at ammg, please, let's meet in person. I'd love

Bill Clearfield  2:07:17
to say hi. Yep, I'll be there too, November 12 to the 16th and a 4m in December,

Unknown Speaker  2:07:23
Salt Lake City.

Speaker 3  2:07:26
Oh, you brought up a for m. So I wanted to tell the integrative community today that one of our faculty just passed away. So Dr Philomena trendare, who's one of the pioneers of a forum, actually just passed today. I was informed by the faculty members about it. So send your prayers for her. Whoever touched lives her, her knowledge with your lives. Please, please pray for herself. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:54
sorry to hear that. Yeah, she passed from breast cancer. Unfortunately, I know she had some sort of cancer. She'd lost a lot of weight. Yeah,

Speaker 3  2:08:04
we were doing lectures already this past year. She was just doing more online, because she can't be visible in our live lectures. So, but yeah, she was, she was even up to her, and we even wanted to lessen the teaching load for her, but she just wanted to teach up to the end, until she died from complication of

Bill Clearfield  2:08:25
chemotherapy. Yeah. How

Speaker 3  2:08:29
old was she? Oh, that's a good question. Um, I didn't ask for age. Show I'm the junior faculty. I might get kicked out. No kidding, I'm not sure how Doctor Phil Amino is, but she's, she's one of the pioneer faculties because,

Speaker 4  2:08:47
you know, but now, now that it's a doctor Marcus in Canada, and he says he treats all the cancer stage four with my bendazole and irvimacting.

Speaker 3  2:08:59
Oh, that was Dr halasa too, when he was doing her, remember Dr Bill?

Unknown Speaker  2:09:05
I wonder she did not take anything like,

Speaker 3  2:09:10
yeah, she was actually seeing integrative oncologists. And in the end, I think it was just they run the whole Miller on her, and she ended up going towards regular chemotherapy, just because the integrative ones are. I mean, they didn't bring it that far. I guess

Speaker 4  2:09:31
I just want to mention them, because I had a patient with breast cancer. So Turkey Tail. It's very good. Paul Stamets, his mom was with the worst cancer, stage four, the worst that oncologist. So in 20 years, and he gave to his mom Turkey Tail, and the T cells increased four times higher. And then she was she survived, went to complete remission. She took Taxol and another she had triple negative breast cancer, but he talks about her in touch so and how important it is like to add Turkey Tail but the correct amount. And I would take Turkey Tail and micro fix the micro acermansia this one because this is also very good for humans. Yeah? This one. Then I heard enzymes are very important for cancer, enzymes,

Unknown Speaker  2:10:27
digestive enzymes, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:10:32
Dr newstad, had you had us so mesmerized? I forgot to put the CME link in there. So there it is. Now two ama CME credits. It's $50 and there's the link there, and it'll be on next week's email also. I but just I didn't get, I had a little delay with last week's video with Dr Houseman Cohen. I'll have that up this week also. So if you're looking for that one, I had a little bit of an issue with the with the video, but we'll, we'll, we'll get it up. We'll have it by the end of, the end of this week. So okay, and check out Dr, new stats, bone products there as as my original acupuncture teacher would say, good stuff,

Speaker 2  2:11:23
by the way. Sorry, I know I'm going to bring this up because cancer was was raised. I do want to mention MK four, unlike other forms of vitamin K, have been shown to have anti cancer properties. I've done C talks on vitamin K and cancer. The research on vitamin K and types of vitamin K and cancer, they're up to phase two clinical trials on mk 445, up to 135 milligrams per day for AML MDs, hepatocellular carcinoma and one case report of acute promyelocytic leukemia. It's the MK four. The US FDA office of orphan drug development granted me five orphan drug designations for the use of MK four alone or with vitamin D for the potential treatment in all of those diseases. So they reviewed the data submitted from published studies, and they agreed it has the potential to treat these and the average time on ANL with AML and MDs, the average time to response is six weeks. The first markers that seems to improve, the most sensitive is platelets, but it's also been shown to bring down blast counts, kill blast cells without harming healthy cells as well.

Speaker 3  2:12:30
Yeah, and AML is one of the harder ones to treat, so when we see those, you really kind of like, do we do a double take on that. So that's good to hear.

Speaker 4  2:12:41
But to me, I thought that if somebody is in a forum or integrative medicine, should never die of cancer.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:49
I know right, the irony of

Speaker 4  2:12:50
things, but things that we have now, we have also made the glycerine. I mean, ozonated glycerine was injected around the tumor, and the tumor disappear in two weeks in animals,

Speaker 3  2:13:02
I know, and you just do your best. I mean, it's like winning the lottery in a bad way, unfortunately,

Speaker 4  2:13:08
or castor oil packing. It's also good. It makes the tumor shrink ahead.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:16
Yeah, those are good ones. I believe you.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:21
Okay. Dr Bill,

Speaker 3  2:13:25
speakers for our put out an ad for speakers. Go ahead. Oh, okay, well, for our conference, anybody who wants to be part of our conference and be a speaker just, I guess, send your abstract right, as you said, to email, and we'll definitely going to be see, Be seeing you over there to be part of that big shindig that we're

Bill Clearfield  2:13:47
going to be having. It'll be a moderate size Shindig. Here's my email address, but send it to Dr Nario, because he's got nothing

Unknown Speaker  2:13:55
else there. Sure

Bill Clearfield  2:14:04
there's Dr Nerio, oh, I got the thing wrong. It's an underscore, right?

Speaker 3  2:14:10
The underscore? Yeah, I think our research group wants to kind of chime in.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:15
Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:19
um, please do. Dr

Speaker 6  2:14:20
Quinn, yes, yes, yes. Have a lot of stuff here, dog, too.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:25
What's that you

Speaker 6  2:14:27
and your dog? Yeah, yeah, he's talking next, right? He, he's, he's better at than I

Bill Clearfield  2:14:34
am. You see, it's warm in Vegas again, it's

Speaker 6  2:14:37
hot. It's 190 or something. I like that. I can't believe it. No, this was the most fantastic talk. Dr Neustadt, thank you so much. As a a hip replacement person, I'm extremely interested in maintaining the bone health. Okay, so I, I really appreciate everything you said. Now I will say a couple of things. As far as the research group goes, and Dr Burgess alluded to this, we're starting to really take off. We're we've got both talks and books and information videos on various products, homeopathy, type of things. We're going to come up with the top 20 acupuncture points and top 20 remedies for those only to limit it from down from the 180 or whatever that they they teach people, what is it? 365 Yeah, well, Sal wasn't even close. I should ask the dog. We're going to be doing the teaching and treating and education as well. There's going to be a lot of practicing under the the tribes under First Nation medical board. And that leads me to the next thing, which I'm most excited about I had mentioned you guys. We had a talk and a meeting with Ronnie Shino from Shin Laza labs, he can make and will make all difficult to get things. So you talk about strontium Reno late. I'm not sure if I'm saying that right. He, he texted me he can do that. The thyroid products that they're going to get rid of Ronnie and Shin Laza will do that. All of this is going to be under the tribal nation. So we will be able to, with the tribal apothecary, sell, slash, distribute to the various offices, what, whatever is needed. We would like to extend the offer to to to be able to also, I use the term carry more appropriately as recommend products from your company as well. We were setting up with a few companies that we can do that, and this is starting national will go international very quickly, with people like Dr Tano and Dr glavinovich and Dr Dimitri on board. So I'm extremely excited about the fact that we're going to accredit people there is Dr Anthony James's school in Florida now has received a letter from First Nations medical board. He and Dr tanos courses will allow people to become certified tribal healers, and and on it goes. We're really starting to do some great things. But again, I'm extremely excited about difficult to find products that we know work should be available from Ronnie Shino. He's going to be setting up here in Nevada, as I've mentioned. So again, we're excited about this, and we'll we'll bring this up a little bit more

Speaker 2  2:17:38
as we go. Would it be possible I can? I'd love to learn more about that and see if I can participate. May I have your email address for you

Speaker 6  2:17:46
and I can communicate? Yeah, you want me to email you that? Or should I

Speaker 2  2:17:49
just tell you? Or you just pop, if you could pop it in the chat.

Speaker 6  2:17:53
For some reason, my chat is not working, and I don't know why, or you can just tell me. Okay, it's Robert at, I'll say, and then spell it, Kohana, rx.com, that's k, O, H, A n, as in, Nancy, A R, x.com,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:13
okay, and I've got yours, great. And it's in the chat there too.

Speaker 6  2:18:19
Okay, appreciate, yeah, and I don't want to take up time, but, but can I ask one embarrassing question here about this Dr Neustadt, and that is that when we talk about PPIs and different things and reduce fracture risk, is that a retrospective thing where people have had fractures and then they find out that they're on these things? How does that risk evaluation work? Or did

Speaker 2  2:18:45
you cover that? Well, I didn't cover how the study was, the design of the study, but basically they looked at it was a retrospective study looking at osteoporosis and fractures. And you know what ppi? PPI use in them?

Speaker 6  2:19:02
Okay, okay, so they're collecting data from people who've had fractures, and they say, and they're going to tell them through the medical history. I was on ppi, I was this, I

Speaker 2  2:19:11
was that. So let me, let me rephrase this, so that there's one study, their study that is retrospective. I believe the Jama study, actually, I would have to go back. You ask a great question. I don't want to give you incomplete or inaccurate information. I would just ask your permission. If I could go back. Let me pull up the PDFs, look at the study designs for the studies that I cited and others, and I will email you

Speaker 6  2:19:37
that information. Oh, wonderful. Geez, if you have time, I, you know, I, I'm big fan of the data and everything that you, that you presented, and I'm very excited about it, you know, not only for personal use, but others. So I, I'm, I'm all on board with your products and everything.

Speaker 2  2:19:54
I will definitely email you that I'm making a note here.

Speaker 6  2:20:01
Okay, thank you, Dr Clearfield, for allowing me to

Bill Clearfield  2:20:06
speak as always. As long as you're appropriately dressed and I have pants on there, we don't, I

Unknown Speaker  2:20:14
don't really care. I don't

Bill Clearfield  2:20:18
I, Judge, I judge, I judge the climate in Vegas by if Dr Quinn has a shirt on or not. So Stefan is not one tonight. He goes similarly. He's in, yeah, he was shirtless last night. He was in. He's where he's in Florida, yeah. So okay, all right, everybody, thank you so much, and we'll see you again, next time, Same Same time, same station. Dr Newstead, again. Great talk as always, and we hope to see you soon. I'll see you at ammg, definitely. And hope to hear from you sooner. Look forward. Okay, everybody, thank

Unknown Speaker  2:20:59
you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai