Unknown Speaker  00:12
To be easy enough to read. I think I read it 3106055, correct.

Unknown Speaker  00:22
Here's Joel. You know, keep mentioning Joel. There he is.

Speaker 1  00:29
Hey, there. How are you good? How are you doing a while, hasn't it? Yes, I'm looking

Unknown Speaker  00:37
forward to hearing Dr Burgess, though. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  00:41
yeah, you know, he's got quite the, quite, quite the outlook on, on everything. So you're going to come to our conference in December, correct?

Unknown Speaker  00:55
I'm not sure I'm going to make it this time.

Bill Clearfield  00:59
It looks great. It's online, yeah, and 20 credits, and it's online. You can, you can, you can, you know, you can, you can join us that way. Where are you again?

Unknown Speaker  01:14
I'm in Dallas. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  01:19
so, yeah, like I said, you can join us online. We'd love to have you. And thank you. And you know Joel will be there. He's our beard of knowledge here. That's right, yeah, you're coming home finally, huh?

Unknown Speaker  01:34
That's right.

Speaker 2  01:36
November, 23 All right, just before the holiday Yeah, yeah. Let me see. Let me look on calendar. When he came in here, he had no hair, none, zero. I know, right?

Bill Clearfield  01:53
I have a student with me. Nice, yeah, he's from a Kansas College of Osteopathic Medicine. He's been here two days. Your name comes up quite frequently. You know, from

Speaker 2  02:05
that are here as you know, amen. That's good. That's good to hear so,

Speaker 1  02:10
so it's good to put a face to the to the name. Agree.

Unknown Speaker  02:14
Agree. Ken, hi guys. Hey, Doc, Dr.

Bill Clearfield  02:23
Crowley, we online right in December. Yes, were you turning into? Dr Quinn with no shirt on?

Speaker 2  02:33
I just, I think I finally fully tore my right shoulder. It needs a total reverse replacement, and I have just destroyed it today.

Unknown Speaker  02:50
That's not good. No, God, I see my naked friends. Is anybody hearing me? Yeah?

Unknown Speaker  03:01
We hear you. Yeah, good to hear you.

Unknown Speaker  03:07
Likewise. Man.

Unknown Speaker  03:14
Hi, Bill, so how you doing? John,

Speaker 3  03:17
you ready? I was going anxious to see if this shit works. Now what I have, I put all my stuff to make it convenient and fast and easy in a quick time movie, and I can watch it here. Does that mean it shows up on this meeting?

Bill Clearfield  03:32
Movies don't, don't translate too well. I mean, little short ones might. I mean, you can try it, but they don't. They don't really translate all that.

Speaker 3  03:40
Well, alright. Well, how do I get the screen so we can try it?

Bill Clearfield  03:47
You have to hit see at the bottom there it says, There's a green button that says, share.

Speaker 3  03:51
Yeah, okay, you hit that. I did that. And it says, mute website notifications while sharing. Then it has a not now and then it has an allow. God, damn man.

Bill Clearfield  04:09
So it's not going to allow you to share your screen. No, click the Allow.

Speaker 3  04:14
Okay, it's not highlighted. The allow is not highlighted, not now is highlighted, but allow is not. Oh, man, that's what I was afraid. Something stupid would

Unknown Speaker  04:31
happen. It may be in your settings, you'll get it.

Speaker 3  04:35
Oh, man, all right. Bill has an emergency backup for me if I can do it alright from here, but I got the whole thing in films, nice movies and stuff. Alright, let me go and it's in VLC. If you've ever dealt with that.

Unknown Speaker  04:55
Should have known he does this every time.

Speaker 3  05:00
Alright, I can do a straight shot. I was just trying to ease the pain of talking about Nazis and torture, so I did the movies of beautiful angels who came to save Bill Clearfield. My first slide says, this is the angel floating from heaven. She says, oh, Doctor, what happened while she's looking you bill and and the rest of us? I think so anyway, so we'll, we'll cut the comedy and go straight to the mind control and pain. But we have answers for the pain, so that's okay, too. I

Speaker 3  05:44
hmm, share screen. Click on Share Screen. This is not now, never mind. I'll send you some movies. How's that?

Unknown Speaker  05:58
What program are you using? Is it on this?

Speaker 3  06:01
I my video is VLC, my internet is FireWire, and man says, allow Apple zoom us to see your screen. I saying, well as to the Tuesday, Tuesday integrative webinar, oh, my God. Oh, my God, you got it. Well, I clicked something in your face. Got real clear. Listen, yeah, man, you can do whatever it wants.

Unknown Speaker  06:41
Anyway, you send me?

Bill Clearfield  06:43
When did you send me your, your, your, remember what? What day you sent me the that was

Speaker 3  06:49
about a week ago. I think I sent you the necessities. And if I can get this movie going, we're really running cool and fast and quick and easy Anyway, well, I know I'll do it now. I got security and privacy,

Unknown Speaker  07:07
all right, I got I got it in case you need it,

Unknown Speaker  07:11
okay, in case you need it, all right,

Speaker 3  07:15
so I guess there's no way for me showing my movie to you guys, huh?

Speaker 4  07:23
Probably a separate click button, because it's video, not screen, right?

Bill Clearfield  07:29
Is there something I should do because I'm the host?

Speaker 3  07:34
Oh, I don't know. Wish what you give me. How do I make I hit share screen here and you get nothing. I don't think,

Bill Clearfield  07:43
yeah, I mean, you should, you know, we have it so everybody can share the screen, so you should be able to get that

Speaker 3  07:48
all right, we'll go into emergency plan. I have,

Bill Clearfield  07:52
I have your slides up so I can put them up and you just tell me when to move. That's all if needed.

Speaker 1  07:58
Okay, okay, there you go. Is Dr Nario won yet? No,

Speaker 3  08:03
it's a good thing. We had backup for backup for backup for backup. Now we're getting it done.

Unknown Speaker  08:13
Yeah, raw,

Unknown Speaker  08:14
are we going to wait for the leak of the week with

Bill Clearfield  08:17
one Dr Nario is not on yet, so, yeah, um, actually, I hadn't heard from him a few days he he may be away so

Speaker 3  08:28
well, I was hoping everybody to La would laugh when I had the angel descent from heaven to save bill and ask him the question, oh, Doctor, what happened? And that's what this lecture is about. This is what happened over the last 50 years.

Unknown Speaker  08:47
Isn't that my topic?

Speaker 3  08:51
I got 47 years. You got 50. I think we've both been kicking ass for about

Bill Clearfield  08:55
well, so Well, I started medical school in 1975 so that's 50 years, right? Holy cow. Okay, I know what I want to be when I grew up.

Speaker 3  09:06
I was in a hospital having surgery from torture in 1974 actually, so, and then it went straight into, how in the hell you get rid of this pain? And it took me 10 years to find the neural therapist who really did wonders. That's why we're

Speaker 4  09:26
here. So I asked AI how to do it. I asked AI to do it, to share a VLC video on Zoom, open the video in VLC, then click Share Screen, which you did in zoom, make sure to check the share computer sound option and select the VLC window before clicking Share. Make any sense?

Unknown Speaker  09:55
No, but you impressed me. Did

Unknown Speaker  09:59
I know how to use AI?

Speaker 3  10:01
Oh, yeah, that's how we made all these films. You know, it's wonderful for me. It's wonderful, but I know absolutely we are cutting new territory with AI. It is able to read your mind and do things you would never expect. So that's why it's a little strange for me. But anyway, AI is wonderful with the images and movies you can do. We can do all kinds of first class stuff now without even trying too hard. Anyway, what you said to do? I tried and I couldn't

Bill Clearfield  10:32
write a whole book in an hour and a half. Just ask. Dr halaso,

Unknown Speaker  10:38
yeah. Who else we have on here?

Unknown Speaker  10:41
Dr Mario, Dr Nario. Showed up. Finally.

Unknown Speaker  10:43
Well, is Dr Tano on this list

Unknown Speaker  10:46
I didn't see Yeah,

Speaker 3  10:50
because he's our main publisher, and yeah, he can knock one out real quick. The AI blows my mind, folks. I feel like an old granddaddy in a new world. The

Bill Clearfield  11:04
problem was I wrote, you know, I wrote a, like 125 page sort of mini, mini book on the hormones and pain, pain control or psychiatric diseases. And he took it and put it into his AI thing, and it didn't read, didn't sound like me at all, and it came up with its own pro, you know, treatment protocols, nothing that I would do.

Speaker 3  11:31
Yeah, I I'm afraid that a lot of people who make big discoveries that have not been released yet may not ever be released, because once they are filtered through AI, if it's not known information, it will not pick it up. So some of us, you know old timers who are talking about stuff that's never been talked about before, if it gets filtered through a well, that's why you guys did the show on AI bias, right,

Bill Clearfield  12:01
right? The question was, was, were we for the bias or against it?

Speaker 3  12:08
Oh, God, I can see you have misinformation. I've gone back for information I was able to get last year and two years ago, and it's been erased from the internet. Would you wait just two minutes. We're gonna anyway. But

Bill Clearfield  12:22
Dr Nair, Doctor Nair, you're around for you're here for our tip of the week. Just

Speaker 5  12:27
listen, yes, yes, I'm ready. You want to start it?

Bill Clearfield  12:33
Do we need to introduce you? It doesn't, doesn't everybody.

Speaker 5  12:35
I think everybody's so tired of me. You don't have to introduce I told,

Bill Clearfield  12:39
Well, I keep telling him every week that we don't have to go take this class. We're just learning. It through

Speaker 3  12:43
you. Yeah, by the way, I have spent days and days coming up with AI films related to the leak of the week. Oh, nice. And we got to get back to the leak of the week, or we're going to waste my AF films we came up with, right?

Unknown Speaker  13:01
So we don't want to waste that

Speaker 1  13:04
just just a whole list of topics, John and we'll, we'll take it from there. All right, okay, all right, you'll go for

Speaker 5  13:11
it. Alright. So John was talking about this, so the leak of the week was actually request. I mean, the our leak of the week this week is requested one by our viewers, and John included. And I'm noticing that more and more of you are sending in your own topic requests. So keep them coming. I love seeing the engagement, and I'm grateful when people say that they're learning a lot from our segment. So let's hear your ideas. Let's keep the dialog going, and let's keep exploring integrative concepts through the lens of the Andrew Weil fellowship together. So when we talk about GMOs in the US, we're talking about a handful of crops that have quietly taken over the entire food system, and the main reason why they exist is it's not nutrition or health, it's convenience for large scale farming and chemical companies. So let's go through the big ones. So we already know soybeans, right? Almost all soy is GMO. Mostly survived being, I guess, being sprayed with herbicides, and because soy ends up in everything from protein bars to crackers to restaurant oils, you're basically eating soy, unless you live off the land. The concern here isn't the genetics, it's the herbicide load riding along with it, another common one that we know we're in the know of is field corn, corn, GMO corn shows up in corn syrup, corn starch, corn oil. It's in sodas, red sauces, snacks. It has, if it has a barcode, it probably has GMO corn. And again, the issue is the chemical system, herbicide tolerance.

Bill Clearfield  14:42
You Yeah, that's our internet. No, no, we lost him. Usually, it's my internet that goes out.

Unknown Speaker  14:52
So that was him. Yeah, he's gone for

Unknown Speaker  14:57
now. He'll be back. He'll be back.

Bill Clearfield  14:59
Yeah, so Okay, well, in the interim, while we're while we're here, let us talk about the Congress of medical excellence, 5.0 those of you who don't know it's coming up, December 4, the sixth in Reno, we have three days. Day one is our integrative medicine research. Day Day two is homeopathy, and day three is our integrative medicine, sort of principles and practices we have. As you can see the speakers here. You can see me here at a very younger age, Dr Mario. Dr Gerber. Dr Devlin. Here are, you know, sort of superstars so. Dr, Sweden. If you don't know her, she's like the number two speaker at a 4m. You know, we'll, we'll pay a lot of money to go see hear her. Dr Gersh is all over social media. She's our, she's our integrative OBGYN. Dr Shallenberger is sort of the father of ozone therapy and Dr Thomas levy of homeopathy and vitamin C fame. He's coming from media in Colombia to be with us. So those of you that are in Arkansas can make it if he can make it all the way from Medellin, Colombia, and we're not paying him. So. Dr Dimitri is Air Force surgeon, and then he's head of the National Foundation of integrative medicine. He's going to talk about heavy metal toxicity. Dr Siegel is our getaway speaker, and you know, she's a veterinarian. And those of you are, you know, most of us are, you know, medical person, doctors and whatnot. She's been on our podcast here a couple of times. She is just absolutely fascinating, and she gets to do a lot of the things we'd all like to do without a lot of the restrictions we have to put up with. Dr Ullman is a prominent classical homeopath. Bill Andrews is a local here in Reno. He's, he's an inventor. He's, he's put together in a mini different products. He's 50 patents, mostly in cancer research. Dr Tanno, you know, we don't need to really talk more much about him. He's probably the smartest person in our room. He's an He's an economist, he's a physician, you know, he's a publisher. I haven't spoken to him about any topic that he that he can't run rings around me and pretty much everybody else. Dr Burgess, you know, our speaker tonight has been my right hand man for many years. Dr James is from the tribal medicine network, and he talks about the bias. And AI Aaron Wolf is a local homeopath, and he also a classical homeopath. So these are our main speakers. We got Dr Homa Farb, who's a a dentist, an integrative dentist also coming. So we have a really good lineup. And, you know, the agenda, as you know, is Thursday, December 4, and it goes through December 6. We have a number of sponsors that are going to be with us. We have all of the lunches covered. So month or Thursday is solution. Specialty from Las Vegas, they're all going to be giving us about a half hour non CME talk. Sierra pharmacy, the local here in Reno will be sat Friday, and Dawn gallery will be here from college pharmacy in Colorado Springs on Saturday. We're working on, I think David Kahn is going to be here. Those of you have been been with us for a long time know David, he does the PMF therapies, and he's got the what's, what's the stuff that, what's, what is that? It's a fermented, fermented ginseng. He has also and we're working on a number of others. The venue is the element hotel. It's in right in the pretty it's not downtown Reno, but it's, it's in the sort of the revitalized area. It's a brand new hotel. It's not big, it's small. It is a Marriott, though we have a good rate for you, $179 a night and for three nights. And those of you are not familiar with Reno, if you like skiing, Lake Tahoe is not 45 minutes away. And you know we're number two as far as cities in Nevada, if you like, casinos, the pepper Mills across the street, and you know, it's a pretty nice venue. Friday night, we're having a sit down dinner, and we're having tea and keys, and Dr Fong will be entertaining, and we'll, we'll have some other surprises also. It's not that expensive. The you know, the amount, the cost, I mean, we're spending almost those of you that are online, well, if you weren't online, to those of you that are, that are attending, if you're not a physician, we're spending almost as much money on on sort of entertaining and for each person, as you're paying, and that's not counting the CME credits. If you're a homeopath or a homeopathic physician, homeopathic assistant or advanced homeopathic practitioner, we're accredited by the by your boards for 20 CME credits for you, which is what you'll be, will get you your continue your license. And it's been a long time since we've all been together. It's been almost three years since we put we put the band back together. So please attend. You know, these things have gotten a lot more expensive than the last time I put one of these on, and I used, we were at the, you know, in a strip hotel in Vegas, and this, it's all this is costing almost as much, and this is just a, you know, a tiny hotel. And so we put a lot of effort into it. We really need your support. And, you know, please take our take our website here or link, copy it. Send it to all of your your your colleagues, send it to your patients, send it to your email contacts. We're getting, we're getting pretty nice return. We have, we have people coming from Louisiana. We have people coming from New Jersey. We have people coming from Canada and so so Minnesota, Long Island. So the word is out, but we need, we need more, more, more bodies in the seats. So I think Dr Nario, are you back?

Speaker 5  21:59
Yeah. I got my internet's going crazy,

Bill Clearfield  22:03
all right. So usually it's me. So I know Dr Burgess is sort of chomping at the bit here to get going.

Unknown Speaker  22:11
So okay, yeah, let me just

Speaker 3  22:13
I like the way I like the way Melvin cheers information, it's right at my brain's speed, the words make sense and everything else. So it's always enjoyable. Take it away. Dr Nerio, alright,

Speaker 5  22:27
so where I got cut off is, I guess I want to differentiate sugar beets. So about 95% of them are GMO, and most of the granulated sugar in processed foods comes from them. So if the label just says sugar, it's usually GMO beats sugar, unless it specifically says cane, and this crop is another herbicide tolerance system.

Bill Clearfield  22:49
Yeah, there he goes again. I saw it happening there. I don't know if you saw his his lips were moving, and this, the talk wasn't the same. So, like I said, it's usually me.

Unknown Speaker  22:59
So all right, are you

Bill Clearfield  23:04
if he gets fine? If not, we'll, we'll let John get started here.

Speaker 5  23:07
Yeah, so I'll just hear on the phone, so I have my Okay, back up, going back, just saying that when you talk about sugar beets is something that we're different from beef, fruit, nitric oxide supplements that we talked about, and this is something that, again, it's a common mistake that we're thinking that they're also GMO, but because sugar beets are growing bone, so they're GMO, they're sprayed. They're not until nothing a beet like Necros. So beetroot supplements come from barriers, and these are non GA grown for treatment density and actual retained nitrates, antioxidants, beta lanes and,

Unknown Speaker  23:57
okay, he's going for good now, huh?

Unknown Speaker  24:03
I hope that weird audio was him and not me.

Bill Clearfield  24:06
Yeah, I think it's him. Okay. I hear you fine. All right. All right. Do you think you can get your slides up?

Speaker 3  24:13
I'm not even gonna try. I'm just gonna say next, next, next, with you.

Bill Clearfield  24:17
All right, so you want me to get them up? I'll get I'll get your slides up here for

Unknown Speaker  24:21
you, yeah, but I'm doing the screen share.

Unknown Speaker  24:29
Yep, it's just in order sequence. We'll just do one through whatever it is, 100

Bill Clearfield  24:36
this is, this is not the right one, right? This is the one.

Unknown Speaker  24:40
No, that's not the right one, nor,

Unknown Speaker  24:42
all right, that's it. Okay. There we go.

Speaker 3  24:45
You have like, 100 slides. Let me make sure we're doing the right thing. It says 152 okay, we'll cut it short. We'll be fast.

Unknown Speaker  24:55
You're ready. Can everybody see it?

Unknown Speaker  24:57
No, it's only taken up the bottom quarter of the screen.

Bill Clearfield  25:02
Let me see, but you can see this. You can see the slides right.

Speaker 3  25:06
I can see the slide, and it's reduced by about half, probably part of the start, start slide show. That's all right, we got it, if you just want to, if we just go, I don't think I have any about that.

Speaker 1  25:21
How's that? There you go. It's

Speaker 3  25:25
good enough. Okay. Do I have any control? Or am I just, oh, nice that man. Wait till you guys see the movies. It's incredible what AI can do. It's mind blowing. But this is good enough for us to get everything done. Do I have any control? You got it all? Bill, I think I have it all. So, okay, we're going to talk tonight about neural therapy. Most people are becoming more acquainted with it. Now. I was introduced to it in 1984 85, 6789, then they won the Nobel Prize in 1990 I thought at that time, most American doctors would hear about it, especially since it got the Nobel Prize with what's called the patch clamp technique, how you measure intra molecular variances, and that can be products. And in this case, the big discovery was, guess what it was that was healing everybody with injections of lidocaine, including systemic diseases. It was voltage increase, the light occurring lidocaine stabilize the cell membrane and the voltage increased within the cell. Therefore, the cellular communication was enhanced, that, uh, same old thing they discovered. And they discovered this in like 1920 and in the 30s, they did major research. And then a war took over, and we all went to steroids and narcotics, but the Germans were the ones who discovered all of this, but 100 years ago, and the answer is voltage. So all you guys who are dealing with those crazy new things, like Tesla, energetic things, that type of stuff. That's what it's about. But all of this took place 100 years ago, and we're just hearing about it now because it was never translated into English until 1984 that was the first English version, and that's why it took so long for us to learn it. But it's real simple. Real simple. Lidocaine increases voltage. It enhances the cellular communication at a segment. Because neural therapy is segmental therapy. It's an automated regulatory therapy, and we'll go into that because they just got the book out on segmental therapy a year or two ago.

Unknown Speaker  28:04
Next it's the books that we're showing

Speaker 3  28:11
next slide. Oh yeah, look, you you wouldn't have to hear me at all if you just get a couple of these books, and Bill flip through the next books. There you go. Get the atlas of neural therapy the books, they'll show you how to stick, where to stick, and we'll review some of it. But it costs about $100 to get some incredibly fine books, and they title their books according to Hanukkah, right? You do it your own way. You know, use your brain. That's what they want you to do. Here's the new book on segmental therapy. Hold on, wait there bill, you'll notice it says the key to mastering acupuncture, neural therapy and manual therapy for people like myself, I went through the acupuncture, neural therapy, manual therapy, and all of those, according to the Germans, are just proper regulation of autonomic segmental therapy next. And by the way, this new book on segmental therapy, it's a mind blower. If you're a geek, it's got enough to keep you occupied for a while. Next,

Unknown Speaker  29:32
very cute man, did I blow it? I thought we made it like the years.

Speaker 3  29:40
Well, sir, you had 150 slides. There you go. So here's what blew my mind, and next, there you go.

Unknown Speaker  29:52
What am I supposed to be on? John, right

Unknown Speaker  29:54
there, no, not that. Back. One back i

Unknown Speaker  30:03
What is it going on here?

Bill Clearfield  30:05
I have neural therapy to treatment of disease by local anesthetics. That's what I see.

Speaker 3  30:10
Oh, yeah, and what you see? We got a cute little picture of me from 100 years ago. That was this one.

Unknown Speaker  30:21
You gotta bill. There you go.

Speaker 3  30:25
Anyway, we'll, we'll, there you go. Hold it right there. So I read an ad in the American Medical Association Journal of or JAMA, right in the back of a book. It was about three lines, and it says the treatment of systemic diseases, not pain. Didn't even use the word pain the treatment of systemic diseases with local anesthetics. So we use local anesthetics to cure liver disease, heart disease, lung disease. And my impression this was being put on in Canada by Germany, which is all part of a big European Federation and and I figured it was shit or Shinola that these guys really had discovered something if they could do what they were claiming or, you know, just people trying to make some money off some cheap drug anyway. That's how I went to Canada for a few years to learn what the latest and greatest was and the way they operated was. Please bring us your most complicated, difficult, hardest to treat patients. You got the bad boys who have been crushed, that type of stuff. Bring them with you, and we will treat them in the three days you are there. And in the many, many cases they treated, which were completely unsuccessful in the United States, they had 100% success within three days, so that virtually all of the pain was gone and they were back to normal within three days, all through showing us that regulation normalization of the autonomic nervous system, and you do that through voltage, and if that's that's how you do it. They made us look like Boy Scouts. I dealt with the guys who are supposed to be the best with needles in the US, and they blew my mind when I say they made us look like Boy Scouts. There was nobody in the United States doing the death depth, the penetration and the, you know, the dangers that come with it. And they were, and that's what they were doing. So anyway, that's I got involved with it next. I'm an osteopath. That's all that says. Man, these videos are delayed all the Hell

Speaker 6  33:05
yeah, there's, there seems to be about a seven second delay for some reason. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  33:16
it's all opinion.

Speaker 3  33:19
You there, you're okay. It's all opinion. Comes from Dr ward. Remember him from Michigan? Yeah, yeah. And he was our number one doctor our first day of medical school, and he said, It's all opinion. And boy, those are the biggest, most beautiful words I think I ever heard. Listen to everybody, they got opinions and have their reasons for the opinion next and but we have to share. We have to listen to those opinions. And if you do, there's a lot of learning out there. And there are big discoveries now that are coming through, and in one month in Reno, what's going to be happening with this group in Reno's is pretty profound. Some of the announcements have never been announced before, and as Bill said, Dr Tanno, our brain child, will be presenting a new book he published on our discoveries and what's called homeo puncture. So I'll do a little bit of that tonight, because it just makes sense. Combine acupuncture with homeopathy, whatever million ways you have to do it anyway. If you do this, normalize it, you get reduction of pain and reduction of systemic disease. And this automated system is responsible for both. If you have an interference, a blockage, surgical scarring, trauma to tissue, it will block an acupuncture meridian, and it will block recovery. So you can go 20, 3050, years, and it won't recover if you can't get through the scar tissue, if you inject the scar to it's through in a couple of minutes, couple of seconds next but the point is, if it treats pain and systemic disease, we're dealing With the autonomic nervous system. Man, we're on a delay. Lay

Speaker 3  35:26
the slides are problematic. Is the sound skipping? Or can we all hear? No, we hear, fine. Okay, then everything I had to say tonight is relatively simple. I just want to point to the Germans and say that they were the ones that discovered it, advanced it, my God, and then shared it. And when you joined their medical community, yeah, pains and alert system, systemic diseases, when the organs go so you get a warning, you're screwed up. That's pain. And if you don't take care of the pain, the organs will start going as well, keep going. Hey, does anybody out there amongst this? 47 people do neural therapy? I'm wide open

Speaker 7  36:21
until the Sure,

Unknown Speaker  36:27
Hey, I hear Dr Gerber. Are you know about

Speaker 8  36:33
maybe I don't know, since 1989 Yeah, every day, every day, every day, miracles. Oh, oh, my

Speaker 3  36:41
God, thank you. So you know how simple this is and how powerful it is, absolutely, yeah, so we'll go. Part of what we're going to do. The last 50 slides are on research. Unfortunately, my wife is an OB GYN surgeon, and I had to do some research. So we did it, and I'm not going to go through the whole thing with you, but as Dr Gerber can attest, the result of our research, I'll tell you what it is. Now, out of 5000 women, we had 39 met the criteria, and the criteria was an abnormal abdominal surgical scar, either a C section or hysterectomy, vertical or horizontal, and the first and only treatment we gave to that patient was injections, intradermally of That scar. Now, if it's a 20 inch scar, we try to do as much as we could and and the results were so with only the treatment of the injection of the scar, most of the women came out think of 53.4 54.3 I can't remember, 53% of the women had noticeable permanent reduction of pain with only injections of the scar. So if you take a bunch of women and you shoot their scars, most of them, you know, we got about 50 some percent. I think it could be higher, much higher. Most of them said, I feel like a new person. I feel like I'm reborn, right? Dr Gerber, absolutely.

Speaker 8  38:33
And then doing a Franken Heuser on top of that, down at their pelvis is even more impressive.

Speaker 3  38:39
Okay, well, Dr Gerber is being humble. Not that many people go back to 89 with this, but that's when the Germans were trying their best, absolute best, to share their new discoveries with us. They were excited about it, and there wasn't much interest from the United States. I think we had two attendees in one of those years in Canada, from the whole United States. You know, there weren't many. How did you learn Dr Gerber? I

Speaker 8  39:14
learned from Dr Klinghardt in in New Mexico, 1989 nurses. You got to come down and learn this injection technique. It's just magic.

Speaker 3  39:25
Well, further in this slideshow, I have Klinghardt mentioned the people who trained him are the same people I'm talking about. And it's a big concept, yeah, and then he went to Seattle, I think that's where he is now, maybe, yep, yeah, and he was dealing with some really interesting people, because we're going to have to get into electromagnetics at some point. How, what the government has been doing with electromagnetic fields, and what they've been not disclosing. So we have a lot of really important discoveries the government's been working with for 50 plus years, and the public doesn't know anything about this, but that's how long it's been. So it goes back with our government, absolutely, with mind control from electromagnetic fields back in the 90s, Route, 92 but there are other things that the government was closing, if we get into the alien thing that occurred with the treaty in 1950 so I think it was 1954 so A lot of the new technology you see the government will be releasing, probably in a year, and that will deal with zero point energy, Reverse, gravitational, flight, stuff. But anyway, Dr burgers, yeah,

Speaker 9  41:04
the the neural therapy, that neural therapy treatment was considered a pseudoscience in United States. I learned neural therapy when I was a medical student. I went to Medellin, Colombia to learn it. And then when I went to residency training, internship and residency training, and then I went to Stanford, I was forbidden to talk about it. And when I came to Washington, DC, from Stanford, I was forbidden to talk about acupuncture. So it was forbidden during those years to talk about it, you but and now I went to Wikipedia, and Wikipedia still considers is both the theory and practice of neural therapy is a pseudo science and offers and and studies have found not to be of any benefit. But we know that is magical. It works like nothing else I have seen in my life. Yeah, it is amazing. Amazing. It has been suppressed so many years, and now something has to be done, now that JFK is at the health department, because it would benefit so many people, and mainly women after C sections and people with with identify, non identifiable sources in the gums and the teeth that something has to be done about.

Speaker 3  42:57
Well, that's very brave of you to speak. Zd, very

Speaker 9  43:02
brave, but that was history. Was real history.

Speaker 3  43:05
Well, I had to deal with that too. I had to get well or die. The Germans saved my life. And when I tried to share what they did and their Nobel Prizes and everything, you know, I was told to keep my mouth shut, get out of the way. So a lot of the stuff we're dealing with right now, this new disclosure of information is enough to get you killed. I want to be simple about that. I'm an old guy, but I've been on the run for 50 some years, so the kind of things you're talking about Be quiet and don't talk. That all becomes very real. But I like I say, I keep my mouth shut about most things the and the government's probably going to disclose itself in the next year, a lot of these things. But what I'm talking about here is so much common sense. Doctor Gerber, this is about as easy and simple as it gets, right, absolutely.

Speaker 8  44:03
We just love to get rid of headaches in 30 seconds.

Speaker 3  44:06
There you go. So we know how powerful it is, and we know how safe it is, and we're allowed to have brain so, you know, we'll talk about that anyway. Systemic diseases, when things screw up next, even with a seven second delay. I'm glad you guys know about this. You know it's for a long time. There weren't many people talking about it. And if you combine that with acupuncture, Dr Berger, you know the acupuncture you look that up to and it says it's a pseudoscience. There's nothing to it. And if we talk about the new Tesla energies that I have been witness to that can be used for, you know, stimulating acupuncture points and stuff, it's profound. So if they don't like, if they can't get along with neural therapy, manual medicine, the human touch, acupuncture, then you can discuss segmental therapy and get into the details that. And they might back off a little bit, but we are all, a lot of us here. We are clinicians. You know, it's not just talk. We're trying to keep patients alive, and that's what this is about. Next bill, next.

Unknown Speaker  45:35
I have Werner van Braun on.

Speaker 3  45:37
Werner von Braun, where did all this stuff come from? All this neural therapy came from the Germans. Came from the Nazis. They were experts in two different three different things, rocket technology and torture. So this group of guys here are the operation paper clip that the United States Government brought to the United States after World War Two to start a rocket program. And that's Wernher von Braun, 1/3 of the way from the right in the middle, tall, good looking guy, and you can go to the next but these were the specialists in torture and recovery from torture. In other words, how to inflict, how to inflict pain and how to reduce pain. And we got those guys. They came to the US and set up next. They set up our torture research programs, child torture research programs, mind control programs, and that was called Operation Paperclip. That's just reality. And are we moving bill?

Speaker 3  46:59
So the German scientist set up in K Ultra, and if you guys don't know about that, that was the child torture conditioning Pro. That's Wernher von Braun. He's the guy that took us to the moon next, and he gave us warnings too about what's going on right now. So before he died. When I talk about this disclosure of information, before he died, he was begging, please don't take war and conflict into space. That's what he was last words, please watch out. And when it came to how they developed all this rocketty Do you? He said one thing, we had help. And you guys that that meant alien help. And then after that, within 10 years, they had the international treaty with aliens to be quiet about this. That's all real. But anyway, Wernher von Braun, he ran the slave labor camps to make the rockets, but then he came here project MK Ultra. This is all CIA. They did a lot of it. And they said they stopped doing it in 73 but it was still going on. But this was heavy stuff that started with child torture and everything in the 1950s program. Anyway, lot of illegal activities, basically with LSD, hypnosis, sensory deprivation, verbal and sexual abuse and torture next. So anyway, these are the guys who are the master that's why I tried to lighten it up with the videos. Man, this is heavy stuff. And when they brought the study to the United States, I was one who had my back broken in the process. So I had to learn what was going on. Yeah, 44 different colleges and universities, 1000s of children. This wasn't one or 2000s. Of children were being conditioned. And if you hold it on this slide just a second, this is what it's about that and they were turning these children into Manchurian candidates. They get them at 345, by the time they're 1820 they sent him out to kill somebody. That's what it's about. And anyway, the CIA said, and the government said, Can we get control of an individual to the point he will do our bidding against his will, even if he doesn't want to do it? Will he do it, and even if it means he's going to die, even if it's against fundamental laws of nature as self preservation. When you use these techniques and mind control that we'll go over here, you don't even care if you get killed in the process. You just do your duty next. But that was the idea that goes back to 1952 so we're talking about, what, 70 years ago? This is old stuff, but it's all been covered up. You don't hear much about it. Are we still on slow bill?

Unknown Speaker  50:16
Say you,

Speaker 3  50:17
yeah, can we slide it? I Where's this delay come from? It's something brand new. I've never seen before, I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  50:30
Make it come out and try go back again, see if it stops it. Yeah, let's try that.

Unknown Speaker  50:37
So, oh, that's nice,

Unknown Speaker  50:40
yeah, so let's, let's try it again.

Unknown Speaker  50:43
Oh, God.

Bill Clearfield  50:47
All right, you got, you got your screen now?

Speaker 3  50:49
Yeah, okay, here's the question, look at this kid. How does he look? How does he look? Go to the next slide. That's MK Ultra. Y'all remember this boy, Colorado theater, shootings, okay, this nice kid, straight, a good guy, good guy everybody in the world loves. And then he gets MK Ultra, and what does he look like next? And you can see that there's next. Can you see a difference? This is like what we're saying, Dr Gerber and Dr Berger. We see people get well, but the public doesn't see it next.

Unknown Speaker  51:34
I'm a few ahead of you there, John, I don't know.

Speaker 3  51:36
Oh my, okay. I'll talk fast when we go through it, see what happens anyway. The things that could be used to mess a mind up or a body up, or to torture somebody, the opposite techniques can be used to heal somebody. And our goal is to heal people. It's not to do this crazy stuff. I'm sorry about these slides. Anyway, this is what I went through next they teach you. And a secret program within this program, top secret within this program was the torture program. So that's what all the pilots had to go through. But they had special things stop. This is where we need to stop. All you need to know is, if you really want to mess up somebody's mind, get control, make them do what you want. You deal with isolation. Remember covid. Just look at this, see if it reminds you of anything. Ice bit. I isolate anyway, you can have all those things that will mess you up, but then you can take neural therapy and put the people back together. And the one thing, the two things in that list of seven items that you should remember the number one thing that makes people go mad, if you have been witness to people who have gone insane, lack of sleep, sleep deprivation will put you through it, and that's Where so the number one thing that will really make you crack you can get control of somebody completely within 10 days. You can get 90% control in three days anyway, but the government's still doing it. Guantanamo, so what you're seeing there with that, what I was talking about, what I went through seer, that's what they use as a test to use in Guantanamo, and that's where they put the political prisoners. And do a lot of stuff deals with water torture, or what it was called, water boarding, right? And they have another method that's like water bowing, boarding, where they stuff you in a box, into your lungs fill with fluid, and you suffocate, not by the water, but by your lungs filling up. You can't breathe, and you go through the worst pain you could possibly imagine, because your joints start swelling and they tend to be tender. So anyway, next. Now you know why I got happy movies with this thing. So anyway, these are the experts in torture. We know what causes the pain and how to make it normal. And you guys have probably dealt with this, each of you, if you use lidocaine and cortisone, that's, you know, neurologist, orthopedist, if you use lidocaine and sugar, you have the prolo therapist. This is crazy, but anyway, if you use lidocaine loads, neural therapy, prolotherapy, lidocaine sugar, orthopedics, lidocaine and cortisone. And nobody ever thought in America, why don't we just leave out the cortisone and the sugar and see what happens? And that's what the Germans did for 50 years. Well, we are over here debating the issue anyway. We can get through the box. You know what it is anyway? All I was saying, if you've been I went through about 10 years of rough stuff, and the Germans put me back together. They're the most incredible, wonderful people. They really have made discoveries. And they they discovered 1990 This is 35 years ago. They got the Nobel Prize for for realizing voltages involved in the autonomic nervous system, and you can repair it with voltage. But who, other than Dr Gerber, Dr Berger, I don't know who, who learned anyway,

Speaker 10  56:01
Richard, Bruce is, for some reason, in my notes, I tend to geek out. And I'll be buying that book, by the way, but it says I have in my notes, it says four neural clamps at a freezing point heals cells. I don't know where I got that from. Does that have anything to do with any of this?

Speaker 3  56:19
I don't know. Okay, we'll look into it later. Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, but it's interesting. You say that because I noticed some other people coming up and stuff I have never heard of before.

Speaker 10  56:29
Okay, cool. And also, the Germans did the fat stem cell. Sorry, German Germans came up with the fat stem cell for inflammation. Oh, they did.

Speaker 3  56:44
It's fun. If you have a year off, and you can go to Heidelberg, Austria, any of these places, just cruise. That's what I did for a year. I cruised doing that, and I went to the universities and medical meetings to try to find out what's what? Because if I didn't get some answers to what was going on, I wasn't going to live. I was in too much pain. And anyway, it's fun, and this group's fun because we're sharing a lot of information. Keep going

Speaker 10  57:14
for reflex, pathetic dystrophy or crypts. You know that you do spinal block, and so it's interesting because it has to do the lighting. That makes total sense now. I never understood that until now.

Speaker 3  57:26
Yeah, well, at first it was too good to be true, until I witnessed the most difficult pain patients be treated completely thoroughly within a few days. Can we keep going?

Unknown Speaker  57:39
Bill, yep, I have saved by the neuro therapist

Speaker 3  57:43
next anyway. So this is going to be a lousy film, but they can get the slides if they want. Anybody who's watching that wants to get the slides, they can get in touch with me or Bill, sorry.

Unknown Speaker  57:58
Mintz, now is that where you want

Speaker 3  57:59
me? Nah, just keep going. So we have Prolog therapy orthopedics and neural therapy is just doing it without the stuff. And you're supposed to think segmental therapy is what the Germans do. Just keep going, and they divide the body into segments. So you can do a spinal block. You can put needles wherever you want, and but they want, stop, stop. On this one, it's important, though, if you can, because the segmental therapy is what chiropractors study. It's what anybody who does manual medicine studies and you can treat systemic disease, this is how you do it. You hit these different points. That's why I say. Get the book. You hit these points. They'll show you how open the lungs, cure the gallbladder, do all kinds of stuff, and they make it so simple, but not many people are listening. Keep going then. But anyway, that one page we had here was totally dedicated to the segmental therapy. So if you guys want these slides, it will have that listed. But if you get the book, you know, when it makes it this simple, somebody walks in, you want to try to settle the heart down. You hit this gallbladder, unbelievable. Usually results within five minutes. Do you ever do gallbladder? Dr Gerber,

Speaker 8  59:28
lot of lungs, lot of IRRs. It'll get rid of an asthma attack.

Speaker 3  59:35
You know what? The Germans did not know. One thing they did not what, know what an IRR is, so what Dr Gerber is talking about in for spinativist, under the shoulder or at the shoulder blade,

Speaker 8  59:50
respiratory, respiratory reflex, right?

Speaker 3  59:55
And the Germans had never heard about that. Hanukkah had never heard about it. And we were at a conference in Florida. Somebody had an asthma attack. Dr Dan. This is after Dr Honecker sent me out. He said, Do you have any lidocaine and needles? I said, sure. He said, Go get them. And I went to get them. And while I went to get them, one of the attendees had an asthma attack and was turning blue on the table, and I had just explained the IRR to hunnica Two minutes before he sent me out the door, and when I came back, the Mommy and Daddy were over the 16 year old child crying. I thought we killed her, and they said, he said, You're not going to believe it. You went out of here. She had an asthma attack. Drugs didn't work. She was turning blue. And we thought, what do we have to lose? And they shot the infraspinatus, and she came right out of it.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:56
Dr Philibert in New Orleans, the IRR, one of the IRR

Speaker 3  1:01:03
creators. You see the guy I was, I didn't know who I know it works. I just didn't know who figured it out.

Speaker 8  1:01:11
Dr, Bill Barr, yeah. We just do, as she points on the scapulas where it hurts, and just do intradermal blebs and then down to on top of the on top of the scapula, north, south, east, west, you know, on the outer part of the bone, yeah, the front, then the front ones that you've had your previous slides,

Speaker 3  1:01:33
and almost always works, right? Absolutely no. I mean, this is big stuff, but it's simple and cheap, so people aren't listening, alright? So then we'll show you different techniques. If you're doing spheno Palatine, you can do it this way my life, my wife likes to do it. I do it this way, and my wife goes through the palette, and that kind of drives me crazy. But everybody has their own way, and this is what they ask you to do. Do your own way, discover some things. Just understand what's happening. You're restoring voltage next.

Speaker 3  1:02:15
Yeah, and for people that have real pain, you know, real headaches, you know, you have to get a little deep. Sometimes you have to do some things to save their life.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:27
Yeah, that was Harry phillibert, by the way. Thank you for that next.

Speaker 3  1:02:35
So anyway, there are different ways to get to different spots in the body. Understand, you're trying to get a segment. So if you have a scar on a segment, other things within a segment, front, back, side, you know different ways you find. You find out what your easiest way. Now, the Germans never said we have the best they it's just their opinion that they were doing the best that they could. Keep going. Bill, what's happening here? I apologize to everybody that I couldn't get my orthopedics

Unknown Speaker  1:03:19
say what my screen says. Netter is orthopedics.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:24
I'm just telling them books again again.

Speaker 3  1:03:32
How many books? How many books do you have by net or Dr Gerber?

Speaker 8  1:03:36
You know, I don't. I had those earlier ones on segmental and then the the original English version of the 1980 verses of the huniki brothers, and in their show of about 85 places to shoot neural

Speaker 3  1:03:54
and we'll just talk, because we already been here for An hour. So books on orthopedics, pain management. Waldman, the government shut that organization down. It was the largest in the United States. Dr Berger, zd, that organization in the United States with the Academy of pain management, and they were all shut up, told to be quiet. Anyway, you can get these books what you feel, hey, the secret to osteopathy, what you feel is real. And go with the flow, real simple. And there's cling art. He has a different way of seeing things, does he not? Yup, yeah, he does, automatic autonomic reflex therapy. Art, right? And Doctor Kidd, we should mention him too. He, he brought it to Canada. And next, anyway, we'll get to my Maya or our research here in a bit. It's real simple. If you inject the scar in the belly, most women will have a major reduction in pain. And this they the, one of the criteria for our research was they could not have pain in the belly. They weren't complaining about pain in the belly. They're complaining in the back and the neck and the extremities. The scar was on the belly, but they had no pain there. That was one of our rules for the research, and still, most of the women had most of their pain. Pain majorly reduced permanently with only injections of the scars and and the reason for that too is we have a Ren channel. And they're the Germans. We have a Ren channel major highway down the middle. Do channel in the back. So if you have surgery, you know, lumbar surgery, or C section surgery, it'll be blocked and but you can open it up in what, a minute, 10 minutes. And the Germans will say, if you need to repeat it. You know, three, four or five times, go ahead and do it, because it can only repair to the extent of the damage. You know, somebody has been chopped in half. You know, it's different world, and crush injuries tend to be some of the worst injuries. Keep going. Bill, so again, I wanted you guys to know they discovered this in the 20s. The 30s, we're 100 years behind because of its cheap, safe and easy and it works. Not everybody's on your side anyway. Oh, it's an lidocaine is an anti a rhythmic right? So if you have a dysrhythmia, which is creating the pain, everybody knows that lidocaine can be given to start to stop a heart dysrhythmia. Pain is another form of dysrhythmia. Lidocaine stabilizes it, if you have a radio and there you go, if you want to know some of the history of pain, here you go. Start way back. And this is what the Germans did? They went way back, and they were in the 1880s they were exploring and discovering things, and by 1920s 30s, they had figured out a lot. Keep going bill, because I think all we have here is this history, and we can chat if anybody wants to, and we can send you these slides if you want to. I gave you about maybe half the book, but I'm encouraging you to buy the book, because it's worth it. You there? Bill, yep. How come it doesn't change? This is weird. I'm changing it

Bill Clearfield  1:08:25
Transcutaneous, anatomical, specific homeopathy, no needles required. That's what's on my screen

Speaker 3  1:08:30
now. Well, we got teaching theories, experiments, terms and definitions. Man, we're back in 6000 BC, you're dealing with modern stuff, and by the way, yeah, so this is my teacher. That's Anton. Jaya Surya, okay, stop bill, if you can with this. The guy you saw there with the Pope was my teacher, Anton, and he was, and he's and he saw about God. He wrote 120 books, and he saw 3 million patients. So that's how he learned this. He developed stop switching bill. So he Okay, were you going

Speaker 6  1:09:15
backwards? I went back to my screen. Now has the pope in your in your

Speaker 3  1:09:21
Okay, oh, we're seeing it. We're seeing the trash page. Two things are involved with Transcutaneous, anatomically specific homeopathy, right? And that is the formula, the homeopathic formula, the driver that whatever you want to put and the So, that's the formula, and DMSO is the driver I usually use. But anyway, stop there on this stuff. I want people to know what he's a guy who developed homeo puncture, homeopathy and acupuncture. He was also the personal physician to Queen Elizabeth. He's a trip. Anyway, if you saw him see lines of hundreds of people and saw them all get well, you'd be blown away. Anyway, he developed homeo puncture. Other people can take credit for it if they want. But the man who really pushed this was Anton Jaya Surya. All right, yeah, and he's okay. Stop on this. You got five frequently used distal points in homeo puncture. All right, everybody see

Unknown Speaker  1:10:36
that this, we will.

Speaker 3  1:10:40
Man, it keeps changing. Anyway, I gave you a few slides of acupuncture points and homeopathic remedy that is used to treat the problem, and we can't keep them up on screen, but that's okay. We are going to be presenting an entire book in one month in Reno on homeo puncture. And I don't think there's ever been a book written on it, and not many people know about it, but it's just common sense. You're using a driver to put a homeopathic. You choose the homeopathic in an acupuncture point or healing point. It's very simple. You can put it on scars too. Do you ever use DMSO Dr Gerber?

Unknown Speaker  1:11:28
Oh, yes, yep.

Speaker 3  1:11:34
So is that what? Denny, you guys ever put Homeopathics in the DMSO? 5050, I 50.

Speaker 7  1:11:43
Oh, good idea, possibly Wink, wink, man.

Speaker 3  1:11:54
We got a bad connection here. Sorry about that. Anyway, points, if you guys want to know some of this, we can send it to you, but this is how you do it. You hit the acupuncture point with the homeopathic and you get an increased stimulation to the point without having to use the needle, without having to use the syringe. You don't have to make them bleed. You don't have to worry about infection. But how many infections have you seen Dr Berger and Gerber with acupuncture? I've never seen one.

Speaker 3  1:12:42
Talking connected, embryotic development. That's what the segmental therapy is about. Excuse me. Segmental therapy, it's embryo embryologic development. And the reason we can treat the brain and pain and neurologic disorders is because the skin and the nervous system both come from ectoderm. That's kind of the trick. It's kind of cool. And they want you to just know it's regulating therapy. We know what that is.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:22
John, yeah, yeah, we're going to inject an acupuncture point. Say, Li four, yeah, how much you're going to use lidocaine or procaine?

Speaker 3  1:13:33
No, I don't. I don't inject acupuncture points with lidocaine,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:37
all right, so you're going to use procaine?

Speaker 3  1:13:41
No, I never use procaine. I saw more reactions with procaine in a week than I saw with lidocaine in 30 years. So what are you using lidocaine? Lidocaine?

Bill Clearfield  1:13:51
1% okay. How much lidocaine will you ejected into a point

Speaker 3  1:13:58
total body? I like to keep it 10 and lower. If somebody is strong and healthy and they need 20 cc's, they can usually survive 20 CC's. That's for one point or for or for no man, no man. If I hit one point, I really don't do more than five CC's. So if we have somebody with l4, l5, bilateral compression, facet compression, you could put 5c C's 1% Lido at all four points, all four facets, but they're probably a little maybe a little dizzy or lightheaded, maybe, but nobody has passed out, but on procaine man, that's why they develop lidocaine. Procaine was developed 1905 but it has cardiac dysrhythmic qualities, whereas lidocaine 1943 has cardiac stabilization quality. So everybody in 1943 thought it was a miracle. Dennis thought they were blessed by God in 43

Speaker 9  1:15:10
okay, I can make a comment about that. People I heard in the American Academy of stem cell physicians said in a medical conference that lidocaine has a quality of numbing or impairing the function of stem cells while the marking just a induces the the stem cells to work normally.

Speaker 3  1:15:51
Yep, I yeah, I don't use, I haven't heard that, and if it's true, it's great. I don't usually use the Lidocaine with the stem cells not mixed together.

Speaker 9  1:16:05
But most people use the Lidocaine because it's very hard to get the marking,

Speaker 10  1:16:11
because it's cytologic, at least it is our cases when, when I've done it for adipose derived stem cell or mesenchymal it kills the cells like we the, you know, studies, we get back or like the many you know, when they process it and multiply it, we don't get as much live cell. That's awesome about the marketing, though. I'll look into that. Thank you so much.

Speaker 3  1:16:38
Well, do you, or do you use an anesthetic at all journey.

Speaker 10  1:16:42
So we use local to, you know, to aspirate, and then the vibration is our anesthetic, believe it or not, because when it's vibrating the cannula, and, you know, and you're in the right plane, it's actually doesn't hurt.

Speaker 9  1:16:54
Vibration is the best therapy to use, because activates the cell membranes and reduces pain and makes everything more the healing more natural.

Speaker 10  1:17:12
It's funny on my and I'm sorry I have off video with my family, but in my office, I have a vibration plate for every bed, and I give them, you know, I hand them, not a vibrator, but a facial vibration dose needs to help distract the facial nerves. But yes, that's what the cannula is, vibration cannula,

Speaker 3  1:17:35
where I learned two things tonight, Marcaine and vibrations. By the way, one of the slides we went through this just shows some of the stuff you can treat with the neural therapy. But what the reason, I think it's cool, is because bonita, and have any you guys out there done pain management, or any of that, the Bible of pain management is Bonita or Bonica. I don't know how you pronounce his name. He has a two volume set. So he said, so anybody in the United States who's trained in pain management and goes through Bonita will know what he said. He said, In the mid 50s, we had the most advanced golden age of anesthetics, where we were able to have our highest success with the treatment of pain with lidocaine. Okay, he said it was diagnostic. If you hit it and the pain is gone, it's diagnostic, therapeutic, it helps a person get well, and it's prognostic. You can tell if it's going to take them a week to get well, three months to get well, and you can do that while you treat them once or twice. But it was the only treatment that was diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic. That's in the 50s. That's what we had. That's the highest success rate we have or had at that time. And that was a statement made 50 years after the 50s. So, okay. Marc haine, huh, that's a trick

Speaker 9  1:19:23
I was taught that procaine enters the cell and stimulates the ATP to heal itself and acts as a mild numbing agent, very short acting numbing agent, whereas lidocaine numbs the area and has to go to the liver to be broken down, yep.

Speaker 3  1:19:49
And as far as the toxicity, I talked to the people the German neural therapist, who have done what, billions of injections, and they did not see the toxicity, and I did not see the toxicity, so I think, but there are a lot of people who were given the, you know, the idea that they have to use procaine because it's safer than lidocaine, but if you're actually a clinician who does it, and you see 100 times more reactions with the procaine. I just don't buy it, but I need to learn more. But we never, we never solve the problem. And everybody in Germany told me the same thing, they never solved the problem. I

Unknown Speaker  1:20:43
Alright, where are we? John,

Speaker 3  1:20:44
I think we're just about. Well, just if you can flip through the research, let everybody look through the research themselves. I just put that there 50 pages of Geekdom, for those who like to do research. And in the first one, two pages, I tell you what's going on. We inject the scar and their pain goes away. It's as simple as that. But in Germany, they do have reels, you know, rules, pain has to go away for, you know, 24 hours or 20 hours. And anyway, the other thing they use in pain is narcotics, right? I'm from the heroin capital of the United States, Martinsburg, West Virginia. And I just made a joke there that we use narcotics like duct tape. Whatever your problem is, we can make you better with narcotics. So we moved a lot of we're heroin capital the whole country, man. So there wasn't much encouragement to get rid of the drugs. And if you tried to get rid of the drugs in our county, you weren't treated too nicely. Anyway, all these guys, including people in this group, have saved my life. So I appreciate it. That's good. Any questions, any anything we can do it, but the research, what? Look at it on your own, just know we did it. It worked, and it's kind of simple. And I think the idea is no hurdle is too big, so we'll figure it out. That's it. Now we get into research. John Milan was a researcher and my wife, and it just says, if you inject the scar of pain in other places, go away with a 54% success rate, which proved a point. For those who say, Dr Berger, what it's? What do they say it is unproven, or what experimental? Now, Doctor zd, what were you saying? They called it earlier. Well, what the neural therapy they were saying. It doesn't work, pseudoscience, pseudoscience. Thank you.

Speaker 9  1:23:14
It is, it is written, if you look it up in the Wikipedia, it says it is a pseudoscience, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:25
yeah. I stopped believing what they wrote a long time ago.

Speaker 9  1:23:28
I think Wikipedia was reviewed about five years ago, and they get got rid of all holistic and alternative therapies. Yeah, all this, credit, everything, everything, all the herbs, all the natural remedies, all the homeopathy is. Homeopathy is a pseudoscience. So everything that that is natural, that saves the body, keeps keeps the stem cells alive and growing is

Speaker 3  1:24:01
that's why this group is alive. We're supposed to change that.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:07
So, John, what is a treatment session look like

Speaker 3  1:24:11
for me? Yeah, usually I whatever, spend an hour or two with the patient, initially, just finding out what's going on. And then if I use three things, I use stretch, massage, inject, and I can do the acupuncture too. So first of all, I tell the patient to decompress and stretch, give them the exercises, and that takes care of it. And massage machine you can get for about 50 bucks now it does an incredible job off Amazon. And if that still doesn't work, the decompression, the massage doesn't work, medicine doesn't work, then I'll do the injections. And what I've been doing for the last couple of years is use homeopathy and acupuncture, what we call homeo puncture. I mix it and I put that in the acupuncture point, and if, and that's just a drop, a micro drop, on an acupuncture point, and if their pain goes down significantly, I don't inject. I don't need to, because homeo puncture is powerful, and then if they need to, I will inject shallow, maybe two inches, inch and a half at wherever they hurt, especially the scar. And they a rule with German neural therapists, you must inject the scars. If they have surgical scars, you have to do it, and you're required to do that first. So usually I will inject the scar to see if the pain goes away. Half the time it does, most of the time it does, and then if it doesn't, I do the normal American joint injections and spinal injections, and except with me, I used, I didn't want to use these CT scans, so I used a $70,000 ultrasound machine my wife had sitting here for babies and pregnant women. So I had the joy of using ultrasound for a long, long time, and that's a simple and that's a simple way of getting in that way, you can watch where the fluid goes to it's not a still picture, it's fluid. Alright?

Bill Clearfield  1:26:36
So I come into you, I have a partially torn rotator cuff on my left shoulder. What do you what? Let's get to the neural therapy. Since that's the topic tonight, what are you going to do?

Speaker 3  1:26:46
Yeah, you inject all the way along. The prolotherapist would say, shoot more in the tendon right at the end. Thesis, where the muscle and the tendon join, or something like that. But anyway, you you can inject right into it. You can inject, you know, throughout the muscle that's torn or partially torn, and usually I just see good results with that. And if not,

Speaker 6  1:27:13
how long would a session? How long will it last? You repeat it in a week and two?

Speaker 3  1:27:18
Yeah, I would do it in a week. I might see him, three, four.

Speaker 1  1:27:21
Lidocaine will last, what, a couple of hours, right?

Speaker 3  1:27:25
That's wrong. That's where we get, yeah, that's what we got to get clear here. When you inject with the lidocaine, is it a block or an opening? You can get the temporary numbness for maybe a half an hour. But the opening effect, the increased communication within the segment, within the nerve, go to about three to five days. So the effect is three to five days. That's why we wait a week. But we all we have this mindset. It's what do you call it? When you cognitive dissonance. We've been saying, Oh, it only numbs up for a half an hour. Only numbs up for a half an hour. The numbing has nothing to do with it, folks, not a single thing. Well,

Speaker 9  1:28:21
Dr Burgess, can lidocaine be used like a subvertally in an acupuncture point to create this opening for

Speaker 3  1:28:36
pain? Yeah, and in the books, it gives specific instructions on that, but you can, you, you would. It's really nice to be able to do all the fancy needlework, but a lot of this now you can hit that acupuncture point you're talking about, or that area you want to hit with transdermal homeopathy so you don't have to inject. And think about popping their eye when you do it.

Speaker 9  1:29:07
And the transdermal homeopathy is done with homeopathy drops

Unknown Speaker  1:29:12
homeo,

Speaker 9  1:29:14
kind that you put under the tongue, or the kind that you inject,

Speaker 3  1:29:19
you could do either way we could extract from the oral stuff. But you may be familiar with TRA meal, if you do surgery, injection

Speaker 6  1:29:31
meals as a home is an Arnica combination.

Speaker 3  1:29:35
Yeah, it's got 14 Yes, it is. It has Arnica in it and about 13 other things. It's a combination. You can find out what's in it, if

Speaker 9  1:29:45
you want the treadmill that you find at the natural

Speaker 3  1:29:49
markets. No, I only use injectable. I use the highest end. I

Speaker 1  1:29:54
don't think you could get it in the US anymore. I used to use it.

Speaker 3  1:30:00
Anymore. I know that they blocked me from Germany, Italy, Russia and now maybe Greece. So I'm talking with other manufacturers and other smart guys to see if they can manufacture it. So all we all we use forever, was tra meal, which had 14 homeopathic Senate and it was sealed in glass.

Speaker 9  1:30:23
How do you spend that? Told me,

Speaker 3  1:30:26
T, R, A, U, M, E, E, L, it was the good stuff that almost all of us used. But then the government blocked it. I called the FDA and said, How come you blocked this? And they said, the German factory was too dirty. You guys buy that? No. So anyway, it's Yeah,

Speaker 4  1:30:56
I have a quick question here. Since you're not using the Lidocaine as an anesthetic at all. Can you add bicarb so that it's less they get that less, less of a burning sensation?

Speaker 3  1:31:10
You could, you could, but I've never had a problem with the burning sensation, pain or technique, okay, yeah, you're gonna, because you can always slow down, right?

Speaker 4  1:31:20
Yeah, but when you inject the big C section scars, even though the women have quite a bit of numbness there, it burns like crazy if you're not using some bicarb.

Speaker 3  1:31:31
No, we've never had a problem. Okay, yeah, again, again, you can do it slow, you know, just

Bill Clearfield  1:31:38
I'll chime in. I mix it with little bicarb. So thank you. It seems to take the sting out. So, yeah, in acupuncture school, they taught us to, you know, inject the scars. You know, they called it unblocking So, and they use the Lidocaine or procaine. So I'm assuming it's the same thing.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:59
We just use vibration. I says

Unknown Speaker  1:32:03
true. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:04
So for the past 15 years or so, I've been using the acupuncture points for pretty much all of my injections. So I do, like Dr Collins, I do a lot of cosmetic injections in the face, and I use the acupuncture points there. It seems to, if you know where those points are, it seems to create much better coverage with so I can use a lot less product to cover the same areas as recommended by the manufacturers, mainly things like, you know, Botox, or even in the lower face fillers for we're seem to be getting the the the big stem cell exosome practice here in Reno closed recently, and so they're, we're seeing a lot of those people, and I'll use the acupuncture points to inject shoulders and knees. And they seem to work quite, quite nicely. So if you know where those are, it's, it's, I find it quite, quite a bit of a help. As far as ultrasound is concerned, I have a little, little handheld device that was about $2,000 you plug it into your iPad or iPhone, use that as the screen, and I've had ultrasound technicians look at it, and I'm still learning, but it seems to do the job. I can give you the name of it when we're when we're

Speaker 3  1:33:31
off the CME at butter, fire, another one. Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:35
I'm not not mentioning names, because CME clock, so

Speaker 3  1:33:39
I'll be quiet. I'll be quiet. Yeah, yeah. They were wonderful. And I paid 70,000 you can buy what you have for 2000 and it works just as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:48
I paid, actually paid three but that's with lifetime updates. It works great, yeah, so, and they worked very nice, very well. I'm still learning how to use it, but, but I'm getting better at it. So you can, you can watch the, like John said, you can watch the needle, you know, go into the into the joint, you know, where you're at. We got pretty good at it, even without ultrasound, I think, over the years. So, so that's kind of my experience with it, as far as like facial work, I never, say never, but I almost never get even a drop of blood anywhere. Just may be superficial when we inject the face and the acupuncture points i i have since I've done that, I've not had one complication with eye group or anything like that.

Speaker 6  1:34:39
That's your, you know, that's your, your main issues with, with, when you're doing, you know, neuro modulation.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:50
And I've not had any issues with getting needles into, you know, getting products into blood vessels, with, with the fillers too. So the acupuncture points, whoever came up with those, in my mind was, were, you know how they did it? I don't know, but they came up with the, I think you know the to me, it was the answer, because I was having trouble at one point. So that's my two cents on that.

Speaker 3  1:35:16
I'll give you another two cents because I forgot to say it. But there's one absolute role everything you have to you can't be lazy with this if you're going to do it. Germans always aspirate every time before you put in procaine, whatever the mixture is, aspirate first, make sure you're not in a vessel. Obviously, and that's pretty important, with the upper cervical you have to aspirate, or you could be risking their life. You can put them into a seizure for 20 minutes, or knock them out, but if you aspirate, you don't have that problem. Okay.

Speaker 6  1:35:57
Dr Nario has some questions online, yeah.

Speaker 5  1:36:01
So John, that was a great discussion. So I have a some thoughts here, because I do neural therapy as well, and I actually have seen this because, as we know, when you do neural therapy, it's actually unlocking your autonomic nervous system and emotional responses. Actually are some things that I've seen that emotional release also can happen. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:36:29
You get dumb. Say they feel reborn, right?

Speaker 5  1:36:35
So don't be surprised, for you guys out there doing it, that this can definitely happen. So we're not only talking about physical pain job, so even needle and emotional dumping can happen with this. And not only are we going to focus on scars, there are also other things that we can inject, for example, like tonsils that were removed, mental problems that they're working on. So dental injections can also be done with neural therapy. And the one thing that also was mentioned here, that I think was a comment, rather than a question, was procaine was noted to be more stimulatory to the autonomic nervous system versus lidocaine. So I think I've been hearing you discussing with the audience about lidocaine versus protein. So just depends on what your objective,

Speaker 3  1:37:30
right? You can have stimulus. You can have stimulation or normalization. The way I do it, I like normal, and that's why the Lidocaine works. Well, it doesn't over stimulate and create reactions,

Speaker 5  1:37:47
all right. So what are the questions here? Is, in your, in your case, other than other than pain, what other situations or conditions that you use procaine with? That means, sorry, um, neurotherapy with, yeah, either,

Speaker 3  1:38:03
I'm just a pain guy, but I've been around the block a few times. But function, you know, structure. Function, try to normalize the structure so they can walk, so they can paint, so they can drive, so they can have a family. And, yeah.

Speaker 5  1:38:20
Function, okay, yeah. I think that's basic really. I mean, this is really known for pain relief, but as, yeah, there's so many. I mean, even a very stressed individual can actually benefit from neural therapy, just to make sure that they go into this sympathetic phase rather than being in sympathetic so I have seen practitioners use this also as a starter in relation to detoxification. So it can definitely loosen up everything, even before any IV therapy, any acupuncture therapy that you do, it just a good startup to give you that good foundation.

Speaker 3  1:38:56
Well with with our work with the United Nations in Sri Lanka, before they would do acupuncture, as was mentioned, they do neural therapy first. So if there are major scars, they don't want to waste their time. So they believe neural therapy is quite often necessary before you even start the acupuncture. Right?

Speaker 5  1:39:20
Here's a good practical question. If a practitioner wants to start doing neural therapy, let's say tomorrow or next week, what's your safest and most effective entry point and how or what are your suggestions and how they can start with this,

Speaker 3  1:39:32
and how you deal with the spinal stuff? No,

Speaker 5  1:39:36
I mean, just starting the whole practice of doing neural therapy, would you want them to go through a class read your books? Or

Speaker 3  1:39:43
you're all, no, you can read the books, which is always nice, right? You're reviewing that for the rest of your life. But all of you guys are trained. Come on unlimited license and surgery and medicine. That's most of the people we're talking to tonight. So you've had all the training. You really need to not kill somebody, but you have to be a little bit safe, like with the aspirate, and not overdose. So you know, you don't want to give too much. But once you get the concept that this block is not a block but an opening, then it all starts to make sense. You're not blocking it, you're opening it and and that's where we all go wrong, because we think, okay, you get a half an hour of lidocaine numbness, and that's the end of it. That's not it's a five day process.

Speaker 5  1:40:43
All right, you mentioned trameel Here. Somebody's asking if you use pure tromille Or you add something more to true meal. You mentioned about DMSO a while ago.

Speaker 3  1:40:53
Wow. Yeah. I one nice way of doing it if you have real traumaal which we can't get anymore, which is a crying shame, was to mix the injectable traw meal, 5050, with the DMSO. And that's a nice, simple way of doing it, but I've done it with things other than that. I've taken oral formulas, extracted the homeopathic energy from it, added that to the solution. But, and that's been mind blowing. It really has, because very small amounts of oral homeopathics, the pellets, whatever you call those things, granules, you know, you're supposed to take, what, 1020 at a dose, and do that every three hours. I was able to take, I was able to take, like, four to five of those small, small pellets, and extract the energy with the DMSO and the trombial homeopathic and I think it had an added effect I wasn't expecting it, but I'm amazed how you can take a small amount of product and then soak it, solve it, however you're doing it, and then use it. And it's very efficient. You know, you're using about 1/10 maybe 100th as much of product, right?

Speaker 5  1:42:22
So I don't want to make you kind of drool about this, but when I go to the Philippines and I see patients there, I have this convenience of getting trameel and I inject it using neural therapy methods. So that's why our practitioners here on the call were from the Philippines. You guys are very lucky to have that over there. Use it. Use it wisely. Use it as much as you can. And I know the distributor of tremeel over there, so they're just so blessed with this gift that there's no authorities running after them about this

Speaker 3  1:42:57
wonderful trameel for the cost. If you actually produce this stuff, you succus And make it yourself. You can work really, really, really hard, or you can pay a reasonable amount with heal and traw meal and have a perfect solution that has already been researched. So we don't have to do the research, but that, yeah, that's a blessing, right?

Speaker 5  1:43:23
Well, John, thank you so much. That was an awesome talk. Amazing. Thank you. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:29
Okay, so Okay, John, thanks a lot for everything, and we'll see you all next week. Okay? We're off. We're off the clock now. So now you can talk about whatever you want.

Speaker 10  1:43:47
Don't go can you go back to one two things, progressive ultrasound, just the side note, we use that all the time in my office to penetrate product into the skin, or just ultrasound at lower frequencies, it penetrates deeper. But the other thing was, the question I had was, back at the beginning of the lecture, you talked about something about flying, and it sounded like flying backwards, or something about like space, or, I don't know, all I know is I wrote something down to ask you about it, and I squirreled,

Speaker 3  1:44:20
was I talking about a peaceful space? Because when people come into my office, we like to be very nice and kind and non threatening.

Speaker 10  1:44:27
No, no, I hear that completely. I apologize. Have my kids integrative. You're hearing pots and pans, but no, it was something about space travel or,

Speaker 3  1:44:39
Oh, my God, now you're talking about the new discoveries with new energy concepts. Yes, okay, and, man, you're going way back with this stuff. If you happen to look at the PASA Gula abduction book that came out last year. Yes, you're familiar with that. I am. Okay. Well, I was one of the supersonic jet pilots that was chasing that damn thing across jet space in Mississippi at that time.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:19
And we that pilot too. Good Lord, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:45:22
So we were trailing this thing, and I was going about 700 miles per hour, and it took off at about 15,000 miles per hour, and we are talking about the blue orb that abducted those two fishermen in pasagola. So anyway, that's what we were talking about. Wow. But anyway, but that information is being released. The only reason I talk about it now after 50 years, is because they're all kinds of military people who are involved in the recovery of these aircraft, and they're talking, and it's not going to be hidden forever. I guess you know Stephen Greer. He's he's the guy who runs the disclosure project with the media and the military and the top politicians. So he's been trying for 50 years to release this information, and I just had a demonstration of some of the energetic powers we're talking about. Some are using structural items, like pyramids. Other things are using energy like Tesla, and I have been a witness to it, and it's absolutely mind blowing, blowing the one. But I think when I talk about space stuff, that's what I'm talking about. But it was something

Speaker 10  1:46:48
too about, like, all I could think of was flying and backwards, or something like that. I don't remember, like, reversing time, perhaps, or space travel, or I don't know what you had said something.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:58
I have thoughts on it, but I don't know what I was talking about.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:04
I'll contact you later. It's probably me just picking up.

Speaker 9  1:47:08
I have a comment about the Tesla lights? Yeah, there was somebody who was healing people with Tesla lights that was very famous, and a couple of years ago, he disappeared,

Speaker 3  1:47:29
a zd, I gotta tell you, my partner in Canada, they found dead about a year or two ago, and we were, he was the Number One Ibogaine therapist in Canada, and we set up a clinic in the Bahamas. And after that, he said, They're after me. They're following me. Something is really weird. Then he was found dead. So there you go. Zd, there's a lot of it, yeah, and I'm being very careful what I say, because I still haven't

Unknown Speaker  1:48:01
careful with the Tesla lights.

Speaker 3  1:48:05
There was a type of machine, I tell you. And if you sat within this machine, your acupuncture points and meridians lit up. They glowed with like a blue light. Oh my gosh. So you could see the points that blew my mind.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:28
Wow. And where was that?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:30
It's a private inventor.

Speaker 9  1:48:32
Was it? Was it in Canada? Was in the United States.

Speaker 3  1:48:36
The inventor was in Canada, and then they moved recently to

Speaker 10  1:48:40
Georgia. Does it start

Speaker 3  1:48:43
with an R, and these are, like, you know, completely unselfish, you know, scientists, and they're getting all these results. And now, what do we do with it? Because it's major stuff. If you can actually see the acupuncture points and people light up. That's just tremendous.

Speaker 10  1:49:10
Yes, Jeanette on the messaging, that's what I was.

Speaker 1  1:49:16
Okay, okay, um, hmm,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:23
okay, John, well, thank you for everything again, conference. We need you. We need you to participate. We need you in our in our in our group. We need you online. We need you. We especially need you in house. So please register now if you can. And here is the link, Congress of medical excellence.com go to registration. We've cleaned up the registration so it's much less uniform, and it goes all the way from physicians to students and lay people and anywhere in between. We have rates for spouses. We have rates for online. And if you want to be a sponsor, that would be a help too. So we're about three weeks away. I'm headed to ammg tomorrow for their semi annual swearway there in Salt Lake City. I don't know if anybody else is going, I'm going to be speaking about the laboratory of functional medicine on Sunday, and then we'll be geared up for our for our conference. Please send our link, and you should have some emails that we've sent you earlier. Please forward them to your colleagues, to your friends, to your you know, your cat, whoever, and but because we need your help, we need you know, you know our, our impetus here is to it was just we started out getting the homeopathic community in Nevada their credits. We expanded it somewhat. And it's, it's going to be a great show that I know and so, but we need, we need you here. So please come that that that would be number one. If you can't make it here, then please sign up online. And it's, I mean, online, it's $249 for 20 CME credits. I mean, you're not going to get that any place else. So, so please do next week we have Sharon Houseman Cohen's returning from intelli DNA X, integrative DNA, whatever, however they say it, she's going to give us a follow up to the to the class she gave in the summer. And I think after that, I have Stefan Hartman and his mom are supposed to speak to us. I don't remember how I remember what that was Stefan Orn. I don't remember what that was exactly, but something about his mom, so I'll get that clarified.

Speaker 5  1:52:21
She's getting, like, low dose steroids, I think a poster girl for the treatments of Stefan.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:31
Okay, alright. So,

Speaker 3  1:52:34
hey, let me ask a question, a question, did you get a hold of Gino Melvin?

Speaker 5  1:52:39
Yes, I'm already talking with them. So we got it all clarified, and we're getting the sponsorship from them. I just need to know what specific time I think Dr Bill and I will be talking about that.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:53
Okay, thank you. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:55
all right, everybody. Thank you so much. Good night. If you're going to be in Salt Lake City, you know, let me know. And, and then next month, a 4m and, but before a for m, we're going to have our the biggest little conference in the universe. And, you know, so

Unknown Speaker  1:53:13
it's better than a for m.

Speaker 10  1:53:16
What's a for him? I'm kidding, I'm kidding, I'm kidding. I know what it

Bill Clearfield  1:53:19
is. But, yeah, yeah. You remember Dr Patel was there? Was it two years ago? And she said, I'm not coming back to this. It's too frenetic. I can't learn anything. Was that two years ago or last year?

Unknown Speaker  1:53:32
Two years ago? She was not there.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:36
Yeah, yeah. She was overwhelmed.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:42
Like, it, I guess.

Speaker 10  1:53:44
Yeah, telling you guys, Tuesday nights are my new favorite night of the week.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:50
So much. Thank you next week, and thank you for last week, by the way, that was terrific.

Speaker 10  1:53:55
Oh, and I have the links from the VA that my my virtual assistant, not that it's been, by the way, to those that served our country. Thank you so much, including Mr. John, Dr John, speaking of vas, but the virtual assistant I have is helping me put a little web link for our group so that I can have selective lectures and things that you guys can just have access to and not the public. So that's great.

Speaker 3  1:54:18
And by the way, I'm putting the full talk tonight, the movies and angels and everything on YouTube. You'll be notified. All you do is click on it and you can see everything we did tonight and more.

Speaker 7  1:54:29
Okay, fantastic. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:32
We have everything on on our website, aosrd.org and it's also on YouTube on my I have it under my name, so it's Clearfield Medical Group on YouTube also. So okay, so next week, same time, same station, we'll have Sharon Houseman Cohen. We're going to learn more about DNA. I know she had a specific topic, but it's slipped my mind right now, so, but we'll find out what it is.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:59
Great. Thank you. Hey. Thank you so much.

Speaker 10  1:55:01
Wonderful week, everyone. Thank you. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai