Speaker 1  00:18
Can you hear me? Okay? Doc, yep, okay, I can hear you too.

Bill Clearfield  00:27
Hang on. Hang on. A second. What do you need?

Speaker 2  00:30
Okay, what's that you

Bill Clearfield  00:40
it. Well, I saw your proposal there, Jeanette, it's a little pricey, yeah, especially for the dinner there. Well, as as it turned out, we ended up losing about $12,000 on the on the deal. Wow. Yeah, well, the IT people were a little bit more expensive than I anticipated, and

Speaker 3  01:09
so that would be included in the proposal that she gave you.

Bill Clearfield  01:14
I think I'd have to look at it again, but yeah, we'd still need, well, you know, I mean, the trade off was, is that the guy did a yeoman's amount of work and made it a lot easier on me. That was the trade off. I mean, he did 80% of what I had to have, double the work, or even triple maybe. I mean, he did, he did it all. I didn't realize he was charging me $82 an hour for it. Okay, yeah, with $10,000 worth of fees that I wasn't expecting.

Speaker 2  01:55
So, so whose pocket did that come out of? Well, so far,

Bill Clearfield  01:59
it's we still have money. We still had money left from the aosrd so, you know, the ones who got kicked out. But between Dr Burgesses debacle in the in the in the spring and this one, we're down quite a bit.

Unknown Speaker  02:13
So, so you have, like, a separate fund for it.

Bill Clearfield  02:16
Well, it's a, it's a 501, c3, it's, it's a nonprofit organization, believe it or in fact, I got two of them. Okay, I still have the American Osteopathic Society of an integrative medicine that's the newer one. And then I still have the Rheumatic Diseases. I when they, when they, when they did all their shenanigans, I just kind of left it. That's where most of the money was. So that's what we used. So didn't come out of my pocket.

Speaker 3  02:47
Okay, that's good. I mean, if you wanted to work something out, you can always,

Bill Clearfield  02:52
you know, $75 a dinner. Well, we can always know, if you go out to dinner, it's, it's, you know, 50 bucks ahead. But you know, when we're paying for it, we got to, kind of, I mean, I, you know, part of it I got, I got such a pushback from the home the pasta that was too expensive as it was. I mean, we, we charged them 249 for in house, and and 199 if they were online, and we spent 240 if they were in house. We spent $240 on food on them.

Speaker 3  03:22
Yeah, that's not very much money at all. Maybe they need to wake up.

Bill Clearfield  03:25
Got CME credits and three days worth of lectures. And, you know, we got pretty rave reviews. And quite frankly, I learned more at our thing than I did it at a 4m for three days. Well, that's why I didn't go to a forum that was great. There was 9000 people there. This thing, wow. It was just crazy.

Speaker 3  03:46
Yeah, that in the smoke, yeah. So anyway, well, I mean, we could go out to dinner. We don't have to have dinner there.

Bill Clearfield  03:57
Well, yeah, the problem is, there is that, I mean, the out of town people. The other thing is, you got to transport them,

Unknown Speaker  04:04
yeah, but they said they have a deal with the

Bill Clearfield  04:07
whole hotel. Is the element, which is where we I

Speaker 3  04:10
know, which is ironic, right? So people could park there, and they can transport us over and back, yeah, dealing with the gate. You know, that might be easier than dealing with the gate, you know, admitting every single person, one at a time.

Bill Clearfield  04:29
Well, have you ever run one of these things? It's like herding cats, and they're the biggest babies in the world.

Speaker 3  04:37
Well, I've had some experience with big groups like this. I know if you we can talk about it later.

Bill Clearfield  04:45
If we gave, we gave a prize out for the person who wasted our wasted our time with the most ridiculous requests that went went to Dr Edwards, who decided that on the the on the the website, on the phone, the the three, the two little lines in the upper I remember that with the, you know, where you hit it to make, to make, so you get the your menu. He couldn't figure that out and that I should change it.

Speaker 3  05:12
Yeah, yeah, I don't know. Just don't stop asking.

Bill Clearfield  05:18
Go call Google or whoever, set that up, you know, 25 years ago, we call

Speaker 3  05:23
them, well, I mean, you could just not put it on the phones, because that's a whole other bunch of work. You have to have it on the phone. Oh, I thought you meant like an app.

Bill Clearfield  05:32
No, no. I mean, it was, it was, it was, you know, it was the URL. It was a website.

Speaker 2  05:37
Okay, well, then I don't know why it would be like that, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:41
we had, you know, we had, we had a category for outside the US and Canada, for online, because we had a lot of folks from the Philippines and and Australia, three people from the US, you know, try to sign up that way. So we gave them. We gave them,

Unknown Speaker  06:03
you know, second place, like

Bill Clearfield  06:07
honorable mention.

Speaker 4  06:11
That's what he did.

Bill Clearfield  06:14
Yeah, thanks. And then the other one there was, there was someone who was has been in practice for 25 years and is now taking it in a PhD program, and she tried to sign up as a student.

Speaker 3  06:31
Well, if she's in a PhD program, she is, yeah, that's not what

Speaker 4  06:36
I told you for. It was a it was a gray line. Yeah, a gray line. Even Janet, maybe it's acceptable. No, it's not

Speaker 3  06:53
well, because you're spending an enormous amount of time to get a degree, which takes you away from your ability to make more money. So, I mean, I think that's the idea behind giving a break.

Bill Clearfield  07:03
You know, I had, I had that kid with me who's this in his fourth year in medical school. He's, he's $400,000 in debt. That's who that's for

Speaker 3  07:10
that stuff. Yeah, I hear you, but I would think you need to raise your prices so you don't have this issue.

Bill Clearfield  07:16
Oh, I got, I got pushback from the homeopaths. That was too expensive as it was, so, I know, yeah, maybe

Speaker 3  07:23
they need a wake up call, I don't know. So compare what it mean. How unique is this?

Speaker 1  07:32
I like waking people up. I'm okay with that, yeah,

Speaker 3  07:35
yeah, that's a lot of what we do, right is wake people up. Well, that's

Bill Clearfield  07:38
right, Joel's our leg breaker, you know? Well, I will have to keep that. Well they do. All they have to do is look at the beard, and they're all, you know, they chase them away, right?

Speaker 3  07:50
I mean, how many of these things are you in the entire US? I mean, I don't know any other one except for a forum. What's that? These type of conferences? Oh, there's a

Bill Clearfield  07:59
lot of them. Oh, are there?

Speaker 3  08:02
Yeah, so you compare the prices to what they charge, you're

Bill Clearfield  08:06
pretty expensive. Yeah, a lot more expensive. No, yeah, you know, I gave a talk at the vitamins, the vitamin C lady was charging $1,400 for two days. Yeah, so and, oh, who else? Ammg. Ammg, I think is 899, I'm always, I'm always a mocker there. So I don't, I don't pay, they pay me.

Speaker 3  08:41
Yeah, I just, I don't know. I think that works with everybody.

Bill Clearfield  08:45
I like the ammg better, too. So a for, I was just crazy. I mean, it just made 9 million.

Speaker 4  08:52
That's 600 right? 600 I think for Abraham, a

Bill Clearfield  08:57
4m, yeah, 600 they had 9000 people.

Speaker 4  09:01
There. No, no, no, the admission price for their Oh,

Bill Clearfield  09:04
no, no. It was 600 1099 Yeah, it was 1009 it used to be that, no, I got it for free. I got it from Dr Goldman for free. For free. I wasn't going. He got the pass. I got the pass. So I did. I did pay for the workshop once on the Thursday, though, oh yeah, 50% off. So I paid 300

Unknown Speaker  09:29
for that. How'd you get 50

Bill Clearfield  09:30
on that? I got it from Joan.

Unknown Speaker  09:34
Joan, yeah, our good

Speaker 3  09:37
friends, I've learned to charge enough money to keep people quiet like that. I mean, it's even with patience too. Like if you try to cut the price as low as you can, it's like an invitation to needle you for the price. Yeah. Well, my that's human nature, my experience, so I would look at it and say, Okay, what's the price that I'd be comfortable with charging? That makes me feel like

Bill Clearfield  10:00
I'm investing my time well, you know, ammg didn't have they had one breakfast. Only they had they did have lunch sponsors at least two days, but they didn't have anything. After hours, they didn't have any. And the two mornings, they didn't have anything. They had coffee. That was it.

Unknown Speaker  10:18
They cost. That was 899,

Bill Clearfield  10:24
they have a stubby little cocktail party, not like us. So, you know, we had the, you know, we we had good stuff.

Speaker 4  10:33
Everybody was full once a day.

Bill Clearfield  10:37
Everybody was well fed. And if you were, if you like music, we had, you know, we had, you know, Chris Costa. We had one night, and then we had tea and keys another night. Like, I have video of Doctor halasa dancing.

Unknown Speaker  10:50
People complain

Bill Clearfield  10:52
about that.

Speaker 4  10:55
Do you know people complain about gaining weight in our conference, they did. There's so much food.

Bill Clearfield  11:04
Hey, you know what? Can I tell you, I was I, that's the way it was brought up. You know, you're going to be a host. You got to feed.

Unknown Speaker  11:12
No, that's a good thing. That's a good thing.

Bill Clearfield  11:14
Except we, we, I think we had a little bit too much

Speaker 1  11:19
healthy It was nice having a full breakfast rather than just donuts. We couldn't have donuts. Well, do you know pastries? I should say pastries.

Bill Clearfield  11:33
A lot of people have that at a 4m they had pastries.

Unknown Speaker  11:39
Yeah, not even gluten free. No

Speaker 4  11:44
intercontinental breakfast. Is that what it is? I think so. No Continental, oh, I was inter world. It's a World Expo. It's a World Congress.

Bill Clearfield  11:56
We haven't, we haven't had doctor. Is it Anna or Anna, so we haven't had you on before, and I think we picked not a great week for you. Normally we have anywhere from from 40 to 80, right, at 90 or 100 Yeah, but it's Christmas week, and, Oh, that's

Unknown Speaker  12:20
right, whoever's here is here, and that's great.

Speaker 4  12:22
Yeah, we got you recorded. Look at you.

Bill Clearfield  12:27
We always start Dr Dr Nario is taking Dr Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship. So the rest of us are either too lazy or too cheap to join in. Maybe the second one. Dr Nario gives us a tip of the week. What they what do you learn this

Unknown Speaker  12:46
week? Yeah, I'm leaking information from

Bill Clearfield  12:50
the So, so we, we, when we started, we had our conference two weeks ago. Was the week before April? Were you there at a forum? No, you didn't miss anything. You missed ours, though ours was ours was good. And so I started off when, when, when I pick, I pick up my granddaughter from from school from time to time, and she's, she's in sixth grade now. She's 10 years old, and I, when I pick her up from school, I always ask her the same question, and she always gives me the same answer. And so I told our students at the conference I didn't want that answer. And the question is, what did you learn today in school? And the answer is, exactly, nothing.

Unknown Speaker  13:37
Not in our school,

Bill Clearfield  13:39
yeah, not in our school. Our school, we learned a lot. We also learned that Dr Levy, who was at the a 4m after the week after our conference, wore the same jacket.

Unknown Speaker  13:52
Yeah, yeah. He has 10 of those, I guess.

Bill Clearfield  13:56
Yeah. Okay, okay, so Doctor Nario, let's take it away here. Alright?

Speaker 4  14:03
So So for our Tip of the Week today, so we're going to talk about creatine, so it has officially escaped the gym and entered the exam rooms. So your patients are taking it for muscle, brain health, fatigue, aging, and sometimes because a podcast host CL mitochondria convincingly. So today, we'll quickly compare creatine monohydrate versus the new kid on the block named creatine pyruvate, clarifying, of course, brain level dosing and even addressing the persistent and incorrect kidney myth that we always hear about creatine. So creatine monohydrate, 88% creatine by weight, near complete absorption with GI through the GI tract, gold standard, with hundreds of RCTs, consistently saturates muscle and brain creatine stores. So the the younger brother, creatine, pyruvate, the 60% only creatine and 40% pyruvate, so highly soluble, higher plasma levels to radically metabolic benefit via pyruvate and prep cycle insertion, so an evidence, no evidence, of superior tissue uptake or clinical outcomes, reverses monohydrate. Why I brought this up is because pyruvate has been claiming that is a better version of monohydrate. But we're going to look into literature here, and majority of this literature will be coming. Were cited from jgre et al, 2008 and eight prior et al and sports nutrition, 2017, but the bottom line here, monohydrate works because it gets into cells and stays there. And pyruvate looks good on paper, but not better on people. So most clinicians know muscle dosing for monohydrate is three to five grams per day, it maintains the saturation in the muscle, but brain creatine is different. Neurons have slower transport, lower baseline creatine, higher demand under stress, aging and neurodegeneration. Studies have shown brain benefits at higher doses of 10 to 20 grams per day, used in mild TBI, depression, Parkinson's and even cognitive fatigue. So this is Ray et al, 2003 this supports the improvement of working memory. Lio et al, 2012 American Journal of Psychiatry, adjunct for major depression issues and at the chant at Al, American Journal of Physiology, 1999 brain uptake confirmed by Mrs. So clinical Pearl here is, if the goal is cognition, neuro protection or anti aging, three grams or five, if you want that is, I guess, under dosing the brain so you need higher so now the scary part here is the kidney myth. So let's say this clearly creatine does not cause kidney damage in healthy Alright, I want to emphasize that healthy individuals, what it does causes a rise in serum creatinine due to the conversion of creatine to creatinine, so which confuses clinicians who stop it unnecessarily when they see it on the blood test. And multiple, multiple larger reviews confirms this safety. Pulp man and France sports medicine, 2000 galano amino acids, 2012, so even in older adults, type two diabetes, long term use up to five years, very safe exception, though, avoid or monitor closely in advanced kidney disease, acute renal injury and concurrent nephrotic drug intake, so creatine raises creatinine, not renal injury, so clinical take away easier. Monohydrate remains first line. Pruvit offers no proven Clinical Advantage, but it's just expensive and it's easier to mix because it doesn't clump up and brain benefits require higher dosing. Creatine is one of the safest metabolic therapies we have. If your patient is aging, sarcopenic, cognitively taxed or metabolically fragile, creatine belongs in the conversation. So that's our tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  17:53
It was in the early 2000s that Mark McGuire was a baseball player, and it was found that he was using creatine. And it was kind of a scandal, if you know anything about that, or anybody.

Unknown Speaker  18:07
And no, I haven't heard of that. There

Bill Clearfield  18:09
was, it caused muscle weakness and protein and, you know, all sorts of issues with it was, again, I'm another one of those knee jerk reaction, you know, politicians we're going to, we're going to get to get to the bottom of it. So you know anything about that? Know anything about that from

Speaker 5  18:27
those before my time? Of course, Bill, you always have these stories that my life experience them. But I do have another pearl of wisdom. If you're ordering blood work on a guy who takes creatine, or woman who takes creatine order the cystatin C, it's the best way to properly assess kidney function, because you're gonna you're gonna get your patient all worried that they have kidney failure.

Bill Clearfield  18:51
Otherwise. Order, what was it? Again,

Speaker 5  18:54
it's called the cystatin C, C, y, s, t, I, N, C, it's about 40 bucks with lab core, and you'll save yourself a referral to the nephrologist for a renal biopsy with an elevated creatinine when they're just taking creatine.

Bill Clearfield  19:10
Okay, got it okay? You since I've been living on the west coast the last 12 years, I my accents changed, so I would have called it that when I was back home in Pennsylvania, so I got it now. Okay, alright. So thank you very much. And Stefan, are you going to be hanging around at all? Because I want to, if you are, I want to ask you about your your doctor, Jim, what's going on? I got, I got a message or something. And I'm really, I'm kind of intrigued. Oh yeah, we were Dr klatz.

Speaker 5  19:41
We were trying to fix them this this weekend, and we made great progress in just two days. The doctors said they felt better than they had in months. Their brain clarity improved. They felt their life coming back to

Bill Clearfield  19:53
them in two days. But then they got to keep it up, right?

Speaker 5  19:57
They got to keep it up. They can't fall off the wagon.

Speaker 4  20:00
You're gonna get a beamer in shape. Beamer,

Speaker 5  20:03
he also got into the cold plunge. He didn't partake in the rest of the protocol. But, you know, little steps with Beamer.

Bill Clearfield  20:10
He was more he was great. He was braver than halasa,

Speaker 5  20:14
better than halasa, all three of them, way better than halasa. All right,

Bill Clearfield  20:18
so, you know, Dr klatz is, he's, he's the big guy there, so you gotta get, you gotta, you gotta fix him.

Speaker 5  20:24
Yeah, and he said he got 20% better. I was on the call with him today. He said he feels 20% better today than he has in months.

Bill Clearfield  20:32
And how was that? How was that measured?

Speaker 5  20:35
He measured that Bay has, how he feels, his pain, his mobility, his brain, how he's his speech, all of that.

Bill Clearfield  20:41
Yeah, okay. So, Dr, Annie, you getting the, you getting the, the gist here of what goes on here. We've been doing this every Tuesday since 2020, in October. So last year, Christmas and New Year's was, was on Tuesday night. So I Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve. So I skipped it. That was the only two we skipped, I think, in five years. So So anyway, thank you for waiting patiently. So Dr Anna herbs is authored Functional Medicine and primary care to help healthcare professionals incorporate personalized medicine into their practice. Her goal is to empower patients to be more active in their healthcare. Her mantra, I believe root cause investigation for preventative wellness and chronic disease management is the future of medicine. Prior to medical school, Dr Anna was a business of lifestyle counselor, explain what that is, specializing in nutritional recommendations and naturopathic medicine. After residency, Dr Hurst practice family and functional medicine in rural America. Then she was one of the founding physicians at the Cleveland Clinic, Center for functional medicine. Do we get good, good custom, good speakers here, or what? She's a proud mother of two, and they're very cute. At that age, it said 29 and 26 I took it off your website. Is that? Dated at all? That's what it is. Okay and enjoys yoga, outdoor activities such as kayaking and hiking. So the topic tonight is a cleaner, better you, bio transformation, detoxification and so Doctor Anna, thank you for being here we you came from. Doctor Cohen, yes. Okay, alright. So thank you so much for being with us.

Speaker 6  22:32
Thank you for having me. Can y'all hear me? Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  22:34
it's a little bit of an echo. I don't know is that. I don't know if that's me

Speaker 6  22:40
or anybody else here in the echo? I can't see here? Yes, it's,

Unknown Speaker  22:48
it's a little bit, a little bit, but go ahead.

Bill Clearfield  22:54
Yeah, we'll it'll be fine.

Speaker 6  22:57
I'll try to talk over the echo if it sounds too crazy. There you go. All right. Now you got it? Okay, there we go. All right. So thank you guys. I thought the first of the year everybody talks about detox, quote, unquote detox. And I know that's for us medical providers, a little bit of a misomer, maybe a cliche, trendy sort of catchphrase, but there is something to bio transformation, and I've used it in my practice over the last 20 years, on and off with patients in different scenarios. So I thought I'd broach the subject, hopefully shed some new information, maybe drum up some conversation. So basic objectives, I do what's called primary care, functional medicine blend. I do a traditional primary care family practice board certification. That's my board certification. So we have the traditional family practice, but I have blended my naturopathic past and my functional medicine training, and now I do both in one practice with my my team here. And so I think it's a little bit different. And I like to always talk about that a little bit, because people always say, oh, you can't do both. You know, there's no time in a traditional primary care and I think actually you can do quite a bit. So that's a big passion of mine. Genomics is a real big part of my practice. Now, started when they first did the mapping of genomes, and I do use it to help tailor my treatment for patients, not all, but some, especially those that are really hard. You know that we kind of scratch our heads when they say they've been to 10 other quote, unquote, functional medicine providers or integrative providers. And you know, what are you going to do for me, Doc? So those are the ones I like to use that with. We'll talk a little bit about toxins and what that means inside the body, outside the body. And I know a lot of you all are very well versed in this, so I'll try not to bore you. And then I'm going to wrap it up with a case example showing what I did and how I did it, and outcomes, following them with a, you know, medical symptoms questionnaire and so forth, and labs. So here we go. So the way, of course, if you don't know what functional medicine is, which I'm sure most of you do, I'll just make it real brief. It's looking at root cause, optimizing pathophysiology and genomics. Dr Jeffrey bland is kind of the grandfather of functional medicine, and he said, you know, we're less concerned with looking at what we call dysfunction or disease, and functional medicine is more about dynamic process that resulted in the person's dysfunction in the first place. And so really the question is always why they present the way they present what maybe is driving it, what started it, and how can we optimize that function? This whole pill for an ill thing is outdated. We need to start looking a little bit more for root cause, especially with our chronically ill patients. It's too costly. So I think that's where our medicine is going. It's I think people are getting better outcomes. Providers are less burnout, and I think that's what's really driving that, besides the patients and the consumer demands. My blended practice is history, history, history. I teach a lot of residents and students. That's one of the first things I have them. You know, assess the patients. Often tell us what's wrong. They give us hints. So really listen. Put your ears out, open your ears. Take time to listen to their story and go through their entire history. I know a lot of patients that sorry, a lot of providers that have a primary care practice don't have 3045, minutes with the patient, but you could have them write out their history. You can do a chronological timeline in chunks of 10 years and catch little clues of where things might have started going wrong. Maybe there's a hormone relationship, maybe there's a lifestyle relationship, you know, something along those lines. So history is really important. Lab assessments you want to reach for optimal I assess labs, both traditional lab reference ranges, but also always trying to teach patients that that's a big range and optimization is really the goal. Lifestyle modification is huge. I have a dietitian on staff, a health coach on staff, a couple, actually, and I think that really helps us bring it home. If you don't have that available, you can still refer out to a good dietitian. So making that network, I think it's really important. We also have a personal trainer and a masseuse here on staff. So have a lot going on modalities for wellness care, a deep dive into especially test if needed. And I'll dive into some of those that I like to use. And then, of course, I do use medications. Patients will often come and say, Oh, I heard you're a naturopath, so you probably don't use you choose herbs. I like to use both. I think they're good options. Herbal medicine and nutraceuticals change biochemistry, just as medications do. If you understand the medication and path and phys and the biomechanics behind it, then they're really powerful tools in your toolbox, so we shouldn't be afraid of them. We just need to know what we're prescribing. I always ask the question, Why? Why the patient's sick, the one that's sitting in front of me, you know? Is it diet? Is it genetics? Is it sleep? If they're not sleeping, well, you know, obstructive sleep apnea, huge. What about toxins in the environment and internally? What about stress in their life? What about inflammation in general? Where's that coming from? What about gut health? And so there's a lot of questions we could be asking if you don't have time to ask all of those or dive into those. I encourage providers just to pick one where they can capitalize on that. You know, sleep studies powerful if you're missing, not heart failure, right? Heart failure, all kinds of things that hypertension, etc, common environmental toxins. People always think, well, what is a toxin? If you say detox, actually in the medical literature you're referring to, you know, coming off of a addictive substance. Bio transformation is the process of changing a toxin, either made inside the body or brought in exogenously and converted through the liver or through a metabolic process. So that's actually biotransformation. That's actually the correct way of saying detoxification. But lay people like to say detox. They like to say, I want to detox my body, or I am going to go through detoxification. So there's a little misnomer there. But, you know, we use still and continue to use detox, because that's how my patients talk. I'm from Arkansas here, and we just say it like it is. It's very simple. I don't make it complicated. I'm very down to earth. So we're talking detox tonight, aka bio transformation. There's a lot of environmental toxins, and we'll talk about some of those and why they're important. But a common patient population that will present is this vague headache, chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia, the one that makes most of us in practice sometimes really challenged. And you know, they've not been heard. They've been pushed here and there. They've been punched from, you know, one provider to the next. And unfortunately, that's sad for them, but those are these patients that I often think of. Why are they toxic? Could they be toxic? Is it started from something they were exposed to, not able to clear out? Why toxins? What are we talking about? Besides air pollution, soil pollution, they're important. It can be made in the body. It can be brought in from outside. We can talk about PFAs, we can talk about plastics, nanoplastics, but toxins, basically, are just something that's harmful to us, and this quote in the middle here from Augustine university really sums it up. While avoiding environmental toxins is completely difficult. It's very difficult. The awareness of their presence and their impacts on us can help improve public health. That's a very common sense statement. When people say, Oh, what about toxins? It's very good to be aware. The more aware you are, the better decisions you make. But you can't you can't live in a bubble. It's not possible, it's unrealistic, and it can create a lot of stress, if that's what you're tiptoeing around, the way you're living. So I often educate them. We do our best, we educate ourselves, and we avoid the ones we can avoid. This is one of my favorite pictures. It's kind of hard to see, but the idea here is liver detoxification from bio or aka bio transformation, changing something from a fat soluble form, which is over there on the left hand side, this toxin lipid soluble form, electron assembly line that's working its way to the intermediate metabolites. And this is like half polar, half nonpolar. So fat, water soluble ish, and then it's got to be packaged into the water soluble form, so that it can be excreted, feed, poop, sweat, breathe out if it is not able to do that or through some sort of backup here in this conjugation section, phase two, which a lot of people know about, methylation, that's one of those pathways. If there's a backup here, I always tell my patients, if you're driving down the highway and you're going from six lanes to all of a sudden, two lanes, you get a big backup. And some of those intermediate metabolites, the half water, half fat soluble. They gotta go back through a process of back through the gut, back to the limb, back to the bloodstream, back up again, through, you know, into the liver, and try it again. That starts to be a burden on the system, and it'll really deplete some of these nutrients. Can she make them bigger? Oh, that's a good question. I don't know, Jenny, let's see. Let me try this. I'm afraid if I do that, I'm gonna mess it up. Hold on,

Speaker 7  32:09
yeah, got it. What's that? Oh, you did have two windows, but it's bigger. Now you can see it correctly. Now I believe

Unknown Speaker  32:19
that was very muffled. Here, I'll go to the chat.

Speaker 6  32:28
Can you see it? Jenny, it's just small. When I release it, maybe you'll be able to see it better.

Unknown Speaker  32:35
I can see it now. Wonderful. Thank you. Okay.

Speaker 6  32:41
Now, if I can't let me get out of this, that's funny. Now I can hilarious. Okay, techie is not my strength. All right. There we go. I see Jenny. That's so funny. Okay, great. I see your name. Awesome. So this is a nice little visual that I share with my patients. I think it's really powerful, because you can see the nutrients needed in this phase one, which is most of your CYP or cytochrome p4 50 enzymatic processes. And then you get into these conjugation pathways, where you're basically adding, you know, maybe carbon and few hydrogens and so forth. So, methylation, glutathione pathways, your acetylation pathways. All of these are your phase two, and that's really the big, awesome part of detox. And so anyway, I use this as a visual to kind of talk to them about nutrients needed and so forth. We're going to talk a little bit more about that switch. There we go. These are the main ones needed for phase one, phase two and phase three detox support a lot of your B vitamins, most all of them actually required some of your milk thistle teas can be powerful here, cruciferous vegetables and so forth. They offer a lot of phase one support, phase two support. We're looking at things like glutathione and acetyl cysteine, your amino acids like methotionine and so forth. Calcium D glucarate is a is a good one, actually, and that one's also one made and produced by gut bugs, bacteria in the gut to help metabolize things like estrogens and so forth. And then, of course, there's a, now a focus on Phase Three detoxification, and that's mostly in the GI tract. So really important to have, you know, prebiotics, probiotic levels that are normal, no dysbiosis, because they're going to help us metabolize things and clear them out of the GI tract or recirculate as a new a healthier version of whatever that that substance was and back into the body as it's needed. So, really important. I like to point out the fact that the basic nutrients needed for detoxification boils down one more time to the root cause to mitochondrial function. And if you look up basic nutrients needed for mitochondria, aka the Krebs cycle, like in this picture here, those are going to be the same things, or very similar ones needed for your detoxification. So you know, b1, b2, b3, glutathione, CO, Q, 10, or Ubiquinol, magnesium, iron and so forth. So this is a really powerful if you have a patient that comes in to see you and you want to do, oh, like a GI support, or you want to give them a new medication, or you want to give them an antibiotic for an infection they have, if they don't have mitochondrial nutrients or detoxification capacity. From a nutrient standpoint, you're setting them up for a real nasty detox process. They don't feel good. They come in and tell you they're allergic to the medicine, or they break out nasty hives all over. So really, if you can think about setting up the foundation for or prepping the body for any treatments that we're going to do, they have better outcomes, and you have much more compliant patients, because they actually feel good during the process. I never detox, quote, unquote, detox or treat something major in a patient that comes in, that is frail, that talks about being chemically sensitive to everything, perfumes, gasoline, medicines. They go through the list of allergies, and my nurse is typing for 15 minutes. That's a big sign we really need to go back down to root cause. Clean up the system, give them back some nutrients, knowing that once they get better, I'm probably not going to need all of the nutrient support, but I do think it's important. It really gives them a better chance. They tend to do better with any any supportive therapies. I also, when you get a complicated patient, I tend to look at genomics from a detoxification standpoint. It's really a powerful guide for me, because if I suggest to someone, for instance, they lived over here in Oklahoma. There was a Superfund site. It was a really high heavy metal area, and so they come over to me, and they've had headaches since they were in middle school, several family members with lymphoma. You know, they've got this whole history. They can't stand perfumes. They can't be around smoke. They can't tolerate any medications. They hurt all the time. They're always tired. They're they dropped out of school. You know, the holy messy mix. I always think about genomics. I think, Well, maybe if they were exposed to a heavy metal environmental toxin, but they were have a challenge with glutathione pathways, or they have a challenge clearing heavy metals, or they have a challenge with antioxidant production, decreased co Q 10 conversion, then they're already set up for, so to speak, failure. So I do think about genomics with my more complicated patients. I don't start out with all of them, but those I'm often thinking about because they've already been a bunch of places. They've already tried a bunch of things. I'm tired of the guessing game. It really helps direct my my care. As an example here, if you can see, I don't know if you can see my pointers, but this GPX, gstp, all the ones that start with G in here are very specific to glutathione, whether it's an enzyme pathway, metabolic pathway, or a true change a compound pathway, like a heavy metal. All of those are related to detoxification, heavy metals, pesticides, insecticides. This nqo One, for example, actually has to do with the ability to change your co Q, 10 and vitamin E into their active forms if a patient has one copy their activity of that recycle. So optimizing vitamin E and utilizing E and CO Q 10, which we know protects the muscle from breakdown, that reduces by 67% with just one variant, abnormal variant. If they have two copies or they're homozygous for the snip in Q 01, they actually have decreased enzymatic activity for that Recycle for CoQ 10 and vitamin E, up to 98% so it's pretty significant, and they would feel a lot better if we gave them the bio available form of like Ubiquinol, co Q 10, some support there. Maybe we give them a nice mix vitamin E. So it's really powerful. If you know that about them, that EPX that's on the list there is interesting because it actually has to do with the ability to clear aromatic type amines, so pesticides, dyes, diesel exhaust, tobacco smoke, plastics and so a lot of times, people say I was really feeling good until I had breast implants, and I don't know what happened after that. Now I'm sensitive to everything. I start thinking about plastics and things like that, and so maybe they're an Eph x1 snip type patient. This also is relative to mold toxin like aflatoxin. So big studies on that with that EPX one, and we're going to talk about some mold toxins as far as some of our environments tonight with our patient that Al, dH, one not a fun one to know you have because, unfortunately, it means that your ability to metabolize alcohol isn't really sucky. You have a greater buildup of this medium metabolite called that's similar to formaldehyde, can be almost 1613, to 16% more toxic than alcoholic cell for these patients. But if they're sitting there drinking a glass or two of wine at night and they have this and they're wondering why they can't think in the morning, or why they're getting sicker and sicker and sicker, this may be an answer,

Speaker 6  40:10
not easy, easy to suggest, not easy to remove for some people. So anyway, this is why it's important. GC. Here is has to do with the main carrier for vitamin D. So if someone you know says, yeah, it was on D for a while because it was really low, but it came back to normal, and they told me to get off of it, or it was really high, so they told me to get off. Well, if they have trouble carrying vitamin D in and out of a cell because of this double say they have a double variant here of this GC, they need to stay on that no matter what, you need to find the right dose for them. You can't just yank them off of it, because they're going to fall back into that low vitamin D level again. So we do address gut issues when we talk about toxins, we also can get toxins from the gut. But if you hear the trendy word of leaky gut, I tell people this is intestinal hyper permeability in the medical literature, you're not going to find a whole lot of published literature that says leaky gut, but you can have intestinal permeability that just increases the body's ability to get things that shouldn't be crossed over into the vascular system or the lymph system, things that should stay in the GI tract and be removed and excreted out, sometimes can pass through into the bloodstream, causing our body to what I call mounts a stranger danger response, inflammation, antibodies being produced, etc. So we start to get sensitive to things we shouldn't be getting sensitive to, or having abnormal reactions to things. So leaky gut is definitely a conversation we have, and we have all kinds of protocols for that, but it's important to think about when you're thinking about a really sickly patient. You know, what's the gut health look like? Why it's important? Because body can make endotoxins. These are going to be inside the cell wall toxins. These are weakly immunogenic, but they do mount a bit of an immune response. You have exit toxins that are actually from the proteins within the cell. Those are usually your gram positives, and they some gram negatives, but they definitely mount a strong immunogenic response. So we're looking at things that you know this is really bothering the immune system. And then, of course, you have your lipopolysaccharides. Those are going to be your outer membranes, and bacteria, especially gram negatives. And there's actually pretty good literature and a lot of good recent studies where they're looking at the endotoxin, LPs type toxins, and their relationship to neurodegeneration. So this one here is talking a little bit about first in rats and then in humans, looking at the systemic inflammation and microglial activation with your endotoxins produced by h pylori. And then also they noticed that it increased endotoxin promoted amyloid beta plaque and tau aggregation. So really starting to say, Well, wait a second, if the guts not healthy, you know, what's it doing for us from a neurodegenerative standpoint, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, etc. So I do think it's important to address GI tract, but again, you know, that's only one part of the picture. Just because I did Functional Medicine and alternative medicine doesn't mean I just treat gut first I do it and I tailor it according to the patient. Or is our gut toxins and our guts making us fatter. There's a pretty good amount of literature that suggests this may be true. Some people have more of what's called white fat cells, which store more energy, and some people have brown fat cells, which use more energy and really interfere with our metabolic activity. That's kind of where all of our toxins are stored. Body likes to store toxins and fat tissue, so it's a nice little toxin warehouse. So when you get someone that is really toxic, and they come to you and they say, Man, I fasted for 40 days and I lost five pounds, but then I held on to this latter 40 I can't I can't lose it. It's almost like the body, I tell them, it's like the body's trying to protect you. If it dumps all that junk out and it doesn't have the capacity to clear it or metabolize it, or get rid of it or keep you safe, then you could get really sick. Your brain is a large amount of fat, and so we definitely don't want it to go there, and it's wired to protect you. So I have a suspicion, when they say things like that, that they're pretty toxic. Maybe need some help one way or another, getting rid of things exogenous toxin, things like metals, mycotoxins, from molds, chemicals and so forth. You know, there's a confusion about mold. Mold itself, the spores cause allergenic type reactions. They do not cause immunogenic type reactions. Mycotoxins, the actual toxins that are produced by the mold reacting with its environment do cause immunotype and hormonal type disruptions, and so we'll talk a little bit about that, because it's relative to my patient tonight, heavy metals. I know this seems trendy. It seems annoying to a lot of my colleagues. They're like, Oh, the person says, I they probably have heavy metals. And then they do a blood test, and the blood test looks normal unless you're getting actively exposed to a high dose heavy metal. It's not really going to be picked up in the blood test, because that's more of an acute measurement, which is fine, and it's actually good to get a blood along with if you're going to be looking at body burden you could do provoke type test. There's not a lot of supportive literature saying published like, sorry, yeah, supported literature saying that we should be doing provoke tests. It is just a measurement that gives me some direction sometimes, to say how much the body's hanging on to. There's not a definitive reference range that I know of, if you all know of one, that's awesome. I know there's a lot of discussion about what the reference ranges should be, but the problem is, if you provoke and challenge someone, and it binds to, say, heavy metals that are in stored in the bone, like lead or fat tissue, and you catch it and you measure it in the urine, that reference ring changes based on what, how much you gave them, what chelating agent you used, what they're creating, clearance was. And so there's a lot of variables, but it does give you a picture if you're provoked. Challenge test is extremely elevated in mercury or lead, and their blood lead levels normal, but on the high normal range, okay. Well, there's probably something going on there. Can it contribute? If you go back to that Krebs Cycle picture, there are four or five places they've studied where it can really slow down and interfere with ATP production, several of these heavy metals. This picture here is taxi drivers, because the study was done on taxi drivers, and what they were looking at is to see like, how much heavy metal was in in the blood of these taxi drivers, and they found them to be quite elevated, especially in cadmium, lead and arsenic. What they looked at it was inflammatory markers. So they looked at I'll be one. They looked at interleukin six. Both of those are genomic markers. And if you have trouble with interleukin one beta, or if you have an IL six snip or double snip, your inflammatory reaction to say, a high blood level of lead could be off the charts. So they found these taxi drivers that had definitely elevated markers in those areas, as well as tumor necrosis factor alpha, which was interesting. You can measure those. You can also look at homocysteine. They found that the taxi drivers had much higher levels of hyper homocysteine. Yeah. So that was interesting, because we know that will affect, of course, heart and renal function. They also had low levels of glutathione. So again, going back to potentially, you know, genetic mutations in that glutathione pathways, and maybe that makes it harder for them to clear this. Of course, that wasn't what their study was, but they just showed the homocysteine was higher, some elevated inflammatory markers and glutathione lower in these taxi drivers that they looked at, and that was published back in 2016 2016 so very interesting. Some of the interesting take homes here on this slide, arsenic, when you look at the symptoms of toxic levels of arson arsenic, you're looking at things like, you know, of course, fatigue is interferes with at proof production, but eczema or allergic type dermatitis, you can get the white lines in the fingernails, some hair loss, some stomach issues, garlic, like breath. That would have to be a pretty good amount of arsenic. I would imagine your blood arsenic should be elevated also. But if you look at that slide, you can appreciate some of the genomic SNPs, like the gsto two, gsto one, all of those can be tested now, and if they have impairment there and they potentially have arsenic exposure, aka, they used to be construction workers, and they used to put together deck work back in the 80s and 90s, those that treated wood was loaded with arsenic, so potentially something there lead you can see those loss of appetite, etc, tremors, neuropathy, brain fog or lower IQ, cadmium, several different presentations, hypertension being one of them, Mercury is an interesting one. Metallic taste in the mouth. I used to hear people tell me that all the time, and I didn't know what that was for, and I have seen it be relative to Mercury, but not all the time, fatigue or lack of physical endurance, headaches and a lot of numbness and tingling with mercury. So very interesting. If we learn about that, is it in our water? It's possible. Safe drinking water standards really haven't been established as far as radioactivity is concerned. And I see a lot of unfortunately radioactive like radon and rubidium and things like that on some of these provoked challenges that people will bring to me, or that I have done in the past. And I was always curious whether that was really a bad thing or not. The literature says, you know, low levels, it's not really harmful. We really don't know. Couple of big publications indicate that you could actually

Speaker 6  49:50
get exposed to this stuff downwind from fracking. So that way they were looking at these fracking wells, and I think it said, if you're downwind, examine the increases in radioactivity of airborne particles when they were operating fracking wells within 20 kilometers upwind of a location with 100 wells upwind, the average rise in radioactivity was 7% but some places had nearly 600 wells up when. So something that we're really looking into, there's not a lot of literature, not a lot of data. I don't think that we are as aware and as worried about it. I'm worried about now we were not at the beginning. Radioactive tracers have not yet been listed on the FRAC focus a website indicating chemical composition of fracking fluid, and so I think that's just a concern and something that we all need to be aware of. Sometimes you can get exposure up to 500 let's see. Wait. Let me go back to that. Actually, you can get 10 times the recommended levels at 500 feet distance from a fracking wheel of benzene, toluene and etoluene. So we know those are not very friendly toxins. They looked at about 4000 people that were not current smokers who lived about 50 kilometers from an air pollution monitoring station, and they found, and that was in northeastern United States. And they found that they calculated elevated levels of fibrinogen and interleukin six in these patients that they tested. And they were also noticed that they had, after they adjusted, of course, for the demographics, and they took out smokers versus non smokers, they also had elevated myeloproxidase. So they're looking at things like, of course, you know, that's clotting risk, stroke risk, etc. So something to be looking at, something to be aware of. So those are air pollutants, mold, hot topic, controversial topic, man, I don't like this topic, to be honest. It creates a lot of angst in a patient. It creates a lot of life disturbance, and there's a lot of controversy around it. If you suggest to someone that they might have a mycotoxin challenge, the challenge is they go back and they tell somebody that they have a mold allergy, or they go see the doctor, the doctor tests them for mold. They don't actually have mold allergies, and it's really not the same thing. What we're talking about is the toxins produced from the mold not actually having a spore allergen or a spore ball growing in an organ. That's not what I'm referring to. I'm actually referring to the actual toxins, and those can elicit some immune or inflammatory responses, and some of them really depend on a couple of these genomic variants to help clear toxins via the brain and the gut. So they they combined on to the the toxin, and they can help remove it from the body. Mycotoxins can be things like Apple toxins and so forth, studied mostly in the animals veterinarian literature from granaries and so forth, but they do elicit an ILB one and MMP nine, TGF beta response, increasing inflammation overall. And we do know that several of them are hormone dysregulators. So I think it's an important topic. I think that we need to support the body, the best, best we can to help them, and the biggest and the most important thing is to get their environment that has the mold cleaned, remediated and or get them out of it so they can get well, that's the number one treatment. Plastics also a big topic. We know that the recent 2024 study showed that there were about 240,000 nano plastic particles in about a liter of a bottle of bottled water, 10 to 100 times more than they thought before. So that's a pretty significant eye opener. I think so plastics can be a lot of things, and are found in a lot of things, like the lining of cans, of course, water bottles, worse if they get exposed to extreme temperatures. And then also can be causes for, of course, hormone dysregulation, diabetes, they know, neurological disorders and cancers. So really, something that we all should be aware of, and you can be you can use the Environmental Working group.org website to look at, you know, better choices for say, blankets or clothing or things without flame retardants, for example. You can start buying, you know, bottles that are PVA free and so forth. Hormone disruption with plastics, is really important to to remember, especially when you're looking at young women early puberty. We're talking about endometriosis, we're talking about fertility issues. I do think it's important you can test for some of these toxins via the urine, and so if you're looking into specialty testing, not a bad idea, especially if you've done everything from, you know, a traditional standpoint, and the child or the young woman is still having heavy periods, can't get her PCOS under control. You know, glucose is very well regulated. You've done all the normal bells and whistles and tricks you might think about toxins, especially plastics. Here are some little tips that I give to my patients. You know, they can use this Environmental Working Group website they can look at for the clean 15 or the dirty dozens, so that you can, you know, shop wisely. You don't have to buy everything organic. It's very costly in rural America. That's not possible. But you could look on, look on that dirty dozen list, and you could say, okay, these are my four favorite things. I'm going to try to buy organic when I can of those. Otherwise, I'm going to make sure that I peel the peeling or clean it as best I can. So I think that's helpful. Trying to get into more clean bedding, like bamboo or 100% cotton is always nice. Mattresses are big, big source for off gassing and a lot of toxic chemicals, food with less ingredients. I do teach my patients that try to get something that has, you know, five or less, or at least, make sure you understand the lingo on the back when it comes to the ingredients. If you need a science class to read the ingredients, it's usually a bad thing. Put it back on the shelf, is what I tell them. There is some literature talking about using modified citrus pectin. So, you know, I don't want to get too woo, woo out there. But this one was really interesting. It was looking at a pediatric population of inpatient that had high levels of arsenic and lead and cadmium in the and the urine. And what they did is they gave them modified citrus pectin, and they gave them a pretty hefty dose, which I will say, 15 grams is pretty common, but they did a they use pecti, and they gave them 15 grams per day for six days total. With the last day, they gave them 20 grams. And on the first 24 hours, you can see there in the first 24 hours, they had a pretty significant drop, and at day six, urinary excretion was increased significantly, especially for cadmium, which was 150% and then, of course, lead showed a pretty dramatic increase in excretion of over 500% at that six month or six day mark. So not a bad little tool to have in the toolbox, I will say, with modified citrus pectin. If you haven't used it, if you start off at 15 grams a day, they're going to hate you, because the bloating is unreal. So go really slow, baby steps. Have them, you know, work their way into it and really watch, watch those numbers fall down if you're doing tests and repeat tests. So real quick, if we have time, I'm looking at the time, are we good? Yeah, we're good. Wrap up this case. Example, pretty fast. I can't see faces, so I apologize. Hope everybody's still there. This case is a 27 year old female. She had pretty much everything on the Symptoms Checklist check she had stomach issues, IBS, D, she's really horrible. Menstrual cycle. She didn't sleep, sensitive, everything, couldn't take anything. Really wasn't trusting of me. Has been to a lot of doctors and without much help. The reason she was really pushing her Health Quest is because she was trying and hoping to have a baby before she was 30, so that was her goal. This MSQ, for us in my clinic, it's a multiple symptoms questionnaire. It's just a questionnaire. We get the patient. We have them do it about every three or four minutes so they can attract their progress. It is subjective, but it's nice to see, because sometimes they'll come and say, I'm not better. But then they look and compare, oh yeah, I forgot I had that, or I forgot that. So it's nice. So I found some pertinent exam findings with her. She was a true fibromyalgia, tender point positive person. She had pretty significant lymph nodes in the anterior cervical region. She had an enlarged liver. That was about, I'd say, probably almost a centimeter or two below the rib cage line tender as well. And her visceral fat was 13. And for us in my clinic, we like to keep that at least below nine, shooting for more like seven, five, somewhere in that range. But visceral fat was high, and that's always the bad kind of fat.

Speaker 6  59:01
Her initial workup included a breath test that's a small intestinal bacterial breath test, and a comprehensive stool analysis. Because of our history of IBS D I did both, and the timeline, we're trying to get her through a lot of this. So those are interesting specialty type tests. We did the basic blood testing there. You can see the ones that I put there. I thought were important to note. We did do a forever chemical test, which is a blood test you can get at quest that looks at PFU and PFAs. She was a bottle water drinker. Had been since high school. So I was just curious, due to her fertility challenges, because that might be something we could target. We did do a heavy metal provoke challenge. She grew up in rural Arkansas on well water all of her life, and so that is something I tend to look for when they're well water lived. And then we checked a mycotoxin antibody, IgM IgG in the blood, because she reported having exposure in college. So just checking to see what her levels look like now see if she was sensitive. She did say her rental home had some had a crawl space. So that was also a reason we added to it first initial lab review few months or a month or so later, I guess it was progesterone to estrogen ratio on day 21 for me, that was not so awesome. I like the ideal ratio. You know, definitely better than that. So for me, that was more of an estrogen dominant picture. Her thyroid also not so optimal. Her free t4 was okay at zero or low normal, but 0.8 her free t3 was low normal as well. Again, I shoot for optimal her reviews. Verse two, three was high at 23 and remember, that's your parking brake. It's trying to slow the body down when it's in a lot of stress or ill or whatever. So that's going to give these two guys to or put these two in a little bit more of a lower state. So if I could get the parking brake off, then I can get the accelerator going, and she'd have a lot more energy. So I think that that was something that we really targeted, trying to slow the stress levels down, help her with cortisol, help her with sleep, etc. Liver enzymes are slightly elevated. I did end up getting an ultrasound on her with fatty liver. We also did a fib four test, and she was an intermediate positive. So reason for ultrasound forever chemical was in the moderate range as well. So not bad. But I think once we start cleaning up the system, given her nutrients she needed, it'll probably come down without any major modifications, other than quit drinking out of plastic and don't heat your stuff in the microwave in plastic. Vitamin D was great. I shoot for 50 to 70 her phase one plan was pretty straightforward. We had her doing some limbic and vagal support. Worked with the health coach on that. I suggested maybe some adaptogen teas so forth. Remember, she's very non trusting, so I was trying to be, you know, not too esoteric and gentle, and not give her too much to do, really encouraging her normal sleep hours from nine to five, even if she laid there for a little bit, get up and but try to keep training on that those hours we did, go ahead and start a combo of t4 t3 a low dose, 30 milligrams, hoping that if I could turn the parking brake off with this stuff, the limbic, the vagal, the adaptive NCS, the adrenal support the sleep, then she'd tolerate that. But sometimes, if you give them a little active thyroid hormone and their parking brakes on really hard. They're going to call you back after day three and think it's not working anymore. I encouraged her to use the sauna she tolerated, hydrate, hydrate, hydrate, and no alcohol. I did order the liver ultrasound I talked about a minute ago. Her SIBO breath test was positive for the hydrogen at 87 that is significantly elevated that required treatment. Beta glucuronidase was positive and elevated in the in the large bowel, which really just tells me it's having a hard time typically detoxing, especially estrogens and so forth. Also a good reason for estrogen dominance. This prevital is a bug that actually has an autoimmune trigger. So it was interesting, and it was important to make sure that we got some better homeostasis in the GI tract so we can dampen down some of our inflammatory stuff going on. Elastase was a little on the low side at 123 did put her on prescription enzymes and pep and we did, of course, see fatty liver that was mild, reported on ultrasound. Follow that in a year, phase two. This was a 322, and a half or so months later, we were doing pancreatic enzymes with every meal. She did test for hypochloridia, and it was actually okay. She didn't have any trouble making her own stomach acid. Sometimes I see that in SIBO patients, I use xifaximin, and I did use the low FODMAP when she was off of the xifaximin treatment. I actually like them to sort of stimulate the gut bugs by eating a little bit of FODMAPs as they tolerate while they're on treatment, because I think that it hits it harder cruciferous vegetables introduction is able. We did start her on a dim supplement to help with the methylation for the estrogens. And then we also gave her calcium to glucose, again, gut health for estrogen conversion and detoxification. And we talked about, you know, of course, places where she could be getting some of those plastics. Oh, she was a la croix drinker. That's right, high PF used in La Croix. And so we had her stop doing that. I was important. It was hard for her stop, though. So we went a few more months. She did come back in and she said headaches and poor recovery were still pretty sensitive, pretty there a pretty significant and so we we looked into more detailed testing, and so we did a nutrient panel. This is when we started thinking about heavy metal provoked for body burden challenge. And our antibody test came back. And I did that because, mostly because of the headaches in the house that had a crawl space and her past exposure of mold, known mold exposure, of course, we're following thyroid and adjusting accordingly. Here's our her this is actually a picture of her mycotoxin antibodies. You can see some of these are pretty significant. She's got an antibody to Alterna. She's got an antibody that's up in the red to cloud spiridium. She's got one to Aspergillus toxins. And so it just tells me, Okay, so we've got something going on, either chronically or acutely. Look at the house. Get a remediator, have them come in and test, you know, do what you need to do. If they say it's bad, then get out her t3, t4, all look better. Reverse t3, is coming down. Is still pretty high. I like optimal less than 10, but it's definitely getting better. Vitamin D still really low at 28 here we are phase three. This is all the way in January. So we're six months, seven months into this process, and we've replaced nutrients based on our deficiencies. We started, oh, she did get the mold inspection, so that's good. We started on MCP powder to help with the detoxification of heavy metals. Did not get a heavy metal test, and it was too expensive, lots of things going on. So we just started MCP at low dose, five milligrams, twice daily, just to kind of help, maybe if there was something there. I was kind of empirically treating that, and of course, I now prescribe 20 minutes of a nap, midday or rest, quiet time, no phone stimulation. We followed up in April. She was way better from a GI standpoint, no bloating. IBS was gone. She hadn't had headache in over a month, but she was still having them up until about March. So, you know, improving, but still having them. Energy is getting better. She's able to exercise and recover. It doesn't take her two days to recover from a 2030, minute exercise or a walk, which was pretty challenging before she did get a remediation person come out to the house, and they definitely they moved out because there was a significant amount of mold in the bedroom, in the closet and so forth. Her menstrual cycle did return. It was getting more and more regular, but the key was it wasn't painful anymore. So it was still a little like 20, if I remember correctly, 25 days, sometimes 30, but it was getting better and not painful. So for her, that was a win. She was less sensitive to smells. She noticed that because they went to the mall and reported that she could tolerate candles when she couldn't before. So she did say, actually, I remember in April of this visit that she didn't feel that fantastic. But when we did her MSQ, she was surprised to see how much it had changed from 89 down to 20. We followed these to be done later, just to kind of see test of cure and so forth. So for her genomics finally came back. It takes a long time to come back, and she had these highlighted. So this one has to do with mold detox. This one is that CoQ 10 Vitamin E recycle. This one has also some relation to mold detox. This one had to do with the alcohol. She didn't drink it regularly, but we did have her cut it out again, mold and gut stuff, vitamin D and again, another one for glutathione. So that was my patient. And I always leave with this because this is my favorite saying, thoughts become your words, words become your actions. Actions become your habits. Habits become your character, and your character becomes your destiny. Thanks for your time, guys. I appreciate your attention questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:38
Thank you so much. That was terrific in our area, and I'm in Northern Nevada when I almost every detox, every toxin panel, no matter whether it's urine, blood or we even do hair analysis, comes back highly positive for uranium,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:59
and we saw that a lot at Cleveland clinic as well.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:01
Yeah, and what, what? What was, Do you have any, any tips and tricks or tricks here,

Speaker 6  1:09:09
what to do? Yeah, so interesting. And sadly, I don't have a lot of tricks, because I'm not finding that a lot buying to it and and clean it up. I do see it come back lower over time, when people are actually detoxing, or we're focusing, say, on lead or heavy metal. But when we were there, we actually talked to some of the environmental fellows about these numbers we were seeing in children especially, and they claimed that low levels were not harmful. And yes, they do see that from the radioactive water they use in fracking. And so if you're in an area with fracking around you, it's probably coming from a water source. But there is nothing I know specifically that removes those radioactive type isotopes. Unfortunately, anybody else, Mary,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:56
you have any, any, any, any thoughts on what, what symptoms might might develop from high uranium at all?

Speaker 6  1:10:04
From the literature that I found, you can find some things like fatigue. You can see some lymphomas, but nothing specific that I know of.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:14
There's a question in the chat, what was the reason not to drink sparkling water?

Speaker 6  1:10:18
Oh, there were several that were shown to have pretty significant polyfluorinals. So those are really powerful endocrine disruptors and weight gainers. And so the one that I remember specifically that was less toxic was the the sand Pelle green. Am I saying that? Right? The green bottle anyway. Don't drink much of it. But yeah, that's the reason why, just because of the polyfluorinals.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:47
Yeah, there's Pellegrino, and then there's Perrier, and the green

Speaker 6  1:10:50
Perrier, Perrier, Perrier, that's it. Yeah, less, less of the bunch. Okay, yeah, what else?

Bill Clearfield  1:11:00
Okay, that's the only question. Anybody else? Have any questions in chat?

Speaker 4  1:11:04
I have an email questions. Fine, alright. Darana, that was a great presentation. So just to add to the uranium issue, EDTA, that's something that I have seen lower uranium levels. What is it? Chelation? So that's something that we do here in the clinic. There is rectal form. There's also in the market, they advertise oral form, but absorb ability is very questionable with oral eta. So don't buy into that. I mean, our consumers out there, it's just rectal or I mean, the most superior would be IV forms.

Speaker 6  1:11:43
That's what I was saying when I'm chelating them. From a heavy metal standpoint, either EDT or DMSA, we use both IV, rectal and oral on the DMSA. We do see them come down, but I can't find literature that says it actually brings it down. So you know, anecdotally, I see it as well. So thanks for validating that. Because I think, Well, maybe it's just me, you know, I don't know what's got, but yeah, thank you. Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:12:09
So here's a question for so in the genetic part of your presentation. So I have my favorites for genetics, ApoE especially, especially for assessment for Alzheimer's dementia, as we all know, that's the transporter of our cholesterol in triglycerides in relation to the LDL receptor and AP four is something that we always look out for in relation to higher risks of these Alzheimer's and cognitive diseases and pathologies. So what are your thoughts with this statement that genetics are always going to be dependent around the environment that they live in? Basically, they're just driving epigenetics here. And knowing the the genetics right now, does it really bring much to the table in relation to your clinical use in your practice? Yeah?

Speaker 6  1:13:01
Epigenetics? Yeah? Epigenetics, absolutely. So genetics are mutation solutions that are pretty well fixed. Genomics have to do with the way our genes interact with the environment. So they are we are able to influence whether it's an environmental exposure, something we take, meditation, deep, breathing, sleep, etc. So that's the epigenetic component. ApoE, for example, when you look at ApoE four just by itself, it doesn't really mean you're going to have Alzheimer's. It needs to say it needs a Tom 40, which is the mitochondrial component that gets all gunked up, and then that sort of turns on and gets it going. It needs an Apoc one to flip the switch for ApoE four. So there's a lot of components to it, but I do use them as tools, and it really is empowering to patients to know, hey, I've got a few of these. These are some lifestyle things I can do. These are some nutraceuticals I can do that could help keep these from getting flipped on, etc. So, yeah, I do use them very much, so more as motivating factors than anything.

Speaker 4  1:14:09
So out of my your own curiosity. So every patient of yours goes through genetic testing. Is that? How you do it? Oh, how do you sell that cost?

Speaker 6  1:14:18
Cost usually, is the, probably the big prohibitor. I use it for the ones that have guessed a ton we can't figure out what's wrong. So it kind of gives me more information. People that have been really, really ill, or people that can afford and are really interested in preventive you know, they want to they have a parent that has Alzheimer's, or they have diabetes history, or they have a stroke history, and they want to know, you know, what can I do, and what does it look like, and that's when I use it. But I'd say probably about 40% of my patients have done we have a panel of 2000 ish patients.

Speaker 4  1:14:54
Usually the hindrance there really is the price. If you could just do it on everybody, right? That would be your cheat sheet through your whole consult, right there? Absolutely, absolutely, yeah, so let's ask our sponsors to give us discounts for this. So another question would be, so you showed a slide there about mold, especially, you know, there are so many protocols out there. You mentioned MMP nine, TGF, beta one there that usually falls in the umbrella of the shoemaker protocol. But in your realm, what protocol Do you favor and what the most effective one that you've used in your patient population?

Speaker 6  1:15:33
So the funny thing about that is, when I was at Cleveland Clinic, my job was to write the protocol, and of course, everything that we did had to have literature support what we were suggesting, and so I interviewed Shoemaker, Neil Nathan, and she tried to bring it all together and make a protocol that fit. I found it to be very intriguing. The lab testing that Shoemaker did, he was way ahead of his thinking as time, but I couldn't find any validity or specificity to say, Oh, this is directly tied to mold exposure and a lot of his tests. And so I had to piece it all together. So my protocol is actually a hodgepodge of a bunch of very smart people, not me. I put it all together.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:17
Hey, you're the smart one. You got them all together.

Speaker 6  1:16:20
That is my protocol. It's everybody's good pieces. And then I learned from them.

Speaker 4  1:16:26
We have a resident mold expert here. He didn't mention his name, dr, Andrew Campbell. Was that something also part of the this little pot that of experts that you research.

Speaker 6  1:16:40
Absolutely, he's actually teaching me. In the last conference I was at, he was spending enough time to educate me a little more on his testing. So fantastic. When I was back at Cleveland Clinic, that was his testing actually wasn't even available. The blood test that he does now Dr Campbell, so I've now incorporated that into it as well.

Speaker 4  1:17:00
Yeah, that's the test that you showed. I think, yep, Dr Bill, you were about to say something.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:07
I tried it. I tried to pin Dr Campbell down, and I never get a straight answer. But so he's got a list of 14 mycotoxins. I always forget, is it IgG? And then he's got an IgE, yeah, says his mast cell. And do you tailor the treatment for each, each one of those mycotoxins, or is it just one size fits all? I mean, he likes itroconazole for everything.

Speaker 6  1:17:35
It's a blend. The amount of years I've done it, I noticed that nobody really fits one thing, and so it's so humbling, but I do think a big part of it is supporting the system in the first place. If we have a fairly homeostatic system, and you get them out of the moldy environment, then you step back and say, what's left, and how can I support it? You know, do they need something powerful like intraconsol and see if it helps empirically. Do they need binders something? There's no proof that binders work, except in the veterinarian literature. So yeah, I know they're not a pig or a rabbit or a dog, but at this point, what it would it hurt to try a little activated charcoal here and there. So yeah, I really tailor it to each person. And I makes me sound like I'm completely ignorant, but I feel like I take from all of those wise people and I apply it to the person that sit in front of me.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:29
So Dr Siegel isn't on tonight. Dr Campbell says binders aren't there's no literature on

Speaker 6  1:18:37
binders and don't use he does not like them.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:40
Exactly. The literature on doing urine tests and don't use, don't rely on them either, right?

Speaker 6  1:18:46
Exactly. I've heard it from all of them. I heard Shoemaker side. I spent hours with him. I spent hours with Neil Nathan. I got it all. And then I said, I sat in front of the infectious disease and environmental guys, and they're like, oh, it's all crap. So I got all of it.

Speaker 4  1:19:02
Well, good thing you didn't put them all together in one place. They're all going to be doing fisticuffs of each other.

Speaker 6  1:19:07
Well, if you ever can imagine Neil Nathan, if you don't know him, if you've ever met him and Shoemaker together, that was an interesting meeting.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:16
Oh, I've heard, I've heard

Bill Clearfield  1:19:20
Campbell together.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:22
Yeah, him too.

Speaker 6  1:19:24
So smart, so smart, really brilliant people, and I think we could glean a lot from them. And I think unfortunately, like any of us, if we get locked into one thing, we miss some of the important information that someone else may have, you know, gathered and gleaned. So I think that's the biggest challenge.

Speaker 4  1:19:42
So one of my curiosities, out of your testing, the Forever chemical test I haven't done this, is this covered by insurance number one, and then number two, I mean, other than avoidance, of course of the plastics or where the sources would be, what are your interventions for the for the test that is positive that would come up from this, yeah,

Speaker 6  1:20:03
actually, there are some. So I base a lot of my interventions or support on genomics, if I have it. Otherwise, I just say, generically speaking, glutathione support your conjugation pathway, support your liver detox pathway. So for support, from a nutrient standpoint, I haven't ever seen insurance pay. I have tried coding it with environmental exposure, adverse reaction to foods and things like that, but I haven't got an insurance pay. If somebody else has, that'd be great. Tell me what you're using, because my patients would love that. But no, unfortunately, it's about $300 from what I remember.

Speaker 4  1:20:44
And you're using detox supplements from the sound like glutathione, right? Yeah.

Speaker 6  1:20:50
And then, of course, massage, you know, lymph stuff, dry brush, sweating as much as we can get them, exercising, lots of hydration.

Speaker 4  1:21:00
And how long do you see the number go down? I'm sure you recheck that, or you don't. In about 12 weeks.

Speaker 6  1:21:05
I typically will recheck. And I will tell you what I see first in women, I see hormones start to balance that before I even check, like I actually see, oh yeah, my periods are better, or I'm losing weight. You know, you get the female that's gaining weight, gaining weight. They try everything. They're eating, right? They're doing insulin, spine, glucose is fine, like you can't you're scratching your head. Start claiming up their environment, those sorts of things. A lady that I had, they were spraying for ants three or four times. The daughter gained, like, 10 pounds. And we were like, what? Come to find out, she's very sensitive to that stuff, pesticides, and psych science, so forth, and so for her, just supporting the system, helping her clean it up, getting it out of the environment, seemed

Speaker 4  1:21:46
to help. It was not the burger that she was eating. It was more of this ant spread.

Speaker 6  1:21:52
We challenged that because they're like, No, I ate really healthy. But yep, slap a glucose monitor. Have her meet with a dietitian every week, have a log, and you go, Okay, well, even if you're cheating, it's not that much like that's not it. So that's when you when you do, but you're right. Always, always question,

Unknown Speaker  1:22:10
not never the burger. It's never,

Speaker 6  1:22:12
never the burger or the Starbucks, you know, 500 calorie sweet drink in the morning.

Speaker 4  1:22:19
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I've heard a lot of and seen modified citrus pectin. Is one of, like the Wonder supplement out there, especially now the rise of galectin three, and I don't know if you've heard of the product 0060, so, oh, that's, that's kind of like one of the hotter items in a program recently, it's to lower down collecting three in the brain that actually has been rooted to cause even dementia or Alzheimer's. So it's an infusion. But anyway, where I'm going with this is MCP is actually made to lower down collecting three by Doctor Elias. And as you have cited, a study here, Academy of arsenic and lead. Are there other things that you have noted in your practice that MCP lowers down other than these specific heavy metals, or they're just specific to this?

Speaker 6  1:23:10
No, I often use it for heavy metals, just, just empirically, but I also use it for this, plastics and the Forever chemicals. It's, to me, it acts like a like a little magnet binder for crap. That's how I'm using it. But I also see my cystatin, cm, my galactin, three numbers getting better when I do those on my longevity panels. So patients that have EGFR that's low, they're showing signs of maybe lower kidney function. I suggest it.

Speaker 4  1:23:42
Right, right? I have a smart patients telling me that no. MCP is actually peelings of oranges and apples. So it says a little bit of expensive in terms of you buy it. But if they tell me I'm just going to eat the peelings, go ahead. Eat it if you can tolerate it, if you

Speaker 6  1:23:57
can eat that much, I was telling you, okay, probably need about 30 to equal your 15 grams, right? Good luck.

Speaker 4  1:24:07
That is the source for everybody who doesn't know. That's where it comes from. So, but get the pill. Save yourself all the hassle. Yeah, Petronella, you have a question? Go ahead.

Speaker 8  1:24:17
Oh, yes, I want to say. I want to add something that I know. I know that there are studies published that it also decreases the mercury modified cytospectin, and I know that it's a doctor, Dr chosky. I take a class with him on Thursday about Redux and ASEA water. And he gives ASEA to patients. And he did a panel. He used vibrant lab. He uses vibrant and so all the metals, all the PFAs, everything went down significantly after with Asia. And actually he wants to come to maybe he can present one time. He's very interesting. He's very good, he's also very good. And so I know this and another conference, they talk about plasmapheresis also removes all the plastics and everything. It has to be done, though five times, because it always the toxins from the tissue, they mobilize back in the blood, and so we have to clean multiple times, about five times, to clean everything, and then cognition improves by 40% with plasmapheresis. And it's easy procedure I saw with the video when it was presented to us, and it's about 45 minutes, one session

Speaker 6  1:26:07
of really expensive. Is it? PETRONAS? Is it expensive? Now, used to be very expensive.

Speaker 8  1:26:15
It is expensive, but the procedure itself, it's not so it's not complicated, because the machine, it's about $100,000 and then I think the kid that it's a kit that it's used for each patient. And then I do not know the price, whatever it's I do not know how much is a kid. I also know Igbo. We were told Ibu. Some doctors, they do, they give EDTA and they do Ibu and metals drop significantly, like you have to do a lot of EDTA sessions, because for EDTA, when I took a class in chelation, they told us you have to do for 33 times, at least three grams over three hours, so to decrease all the heavy metals.

Speaker 6  1:27:16
Over the years, I actually haven't felt to need that much. Yeah, not that much. It just personally, in practice, I've been doing EDT IV, probably total of 1215, years or so, I haven't found that you actually need as much as I was taught. Also, is what I was saying. I was taught you need a lot, and for a long time. And I really, truly am not seeing that. But, you know, I'm sure it depends on the load, I'm sure it depends on the patient, etc, but I just, I feel like it's probably a little bit much. Now, do I think they need ongoing maintenance a lot of times? Yes, you know, here and there, yeah. But anyway, that's just what I've noticed, not as much. Yeah, I

Speaker 4  1:27:58
heard from a patient they would charge for, I guess, plasmapheresis for 5000 bucks. That's, I mean, they package it up too, if you get support, so it goes down, but that's a single therapy.

Speaker 8  1:28:15
But I heard that Dr rahala Sano is that much stupid. I think

Unknown Speaker  1:28:22
Dr Bill. I think Dr Bill knows that

Speaker 6  1:28:24
the theory would be it would clean out for the moment. But isn't that a temporary like if you can't detox in general and you get exposed environmentally? Yes, symptoms get better for a period of time. So you basically would know that, if that worked well for you clinically, in theory, you would expect that once a year I got to go for my little, you know, plasma exchange, and then I got to do it again. I would think, in theory, I don't know. I'm not versed in it. I was just more asking, Do you think that's how that would work, or is it a one and done? I agree with you,

Speaker 4  1:28:57
as you mentioned about your genetic snips, right? Yeah, that's what I was thinking. Yeah, everybody's going to load up again. So again, it's not going to be a losing battle. You're basically emptying a bucket that's starting to overflow before, even if it's pathologies. So maintenance programs for these Eboo programs and even plasma Pharisees are basically where integrative practitioners would come into the picture. So I think, though it is an income generation for them practitioners. But if you would see there is a benefit for this in maintaining somebody's health,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:31
that's pretty neat. Actually, very cool. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:36
There's a question about the when suggesting glutathione, what route and dose do you recommend?

Speaker 6  1:29:43
Yeah, so there's a lot of discussion whether it needs to be liposomal or it should be IV, or it should be oral, reduced, etc. When I really scrub the literature way back when reduced and liposomal overall, the levels raised about the same and the liposomal is much more expensive. However, the liposomal did get intracellularly across the phospholipid membrane better. So if you have someone that's acutely ill, really low, you might use that at the beginning, and then you could switch to reduce reduced. However, is water soluble, so you have to do multiple times per day, but it is a lot more cost effective. That's what I found. IV, I use only rarely, and as needed. It's very short lived, expensive.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:28
That in acetyl cysteine, then as a precursor, N, acetyl

Speaker 6  1:30:31
cysteine, great precursor for glutathione. Unless you have all of those glutathione snips, you can't even convert it. So I have tendency to just jump to glutathione if I'm needing it, and don't know,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:44
yeah, okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna go out there, which I'm sure you have some favorite genetic testing.

Speaker 6  1:30:55
I've used several over the years. My favorite of late is intellect, because of their references and their their support tool, it's much more comprehensive, and all of their essay testing, if you ask them to give info on how they test, a lot of companies are using very antiquated testing. So you're not getting full RS codes, full reads, they're using the more up to date, and they keep staying up on it so little more expensive for my patients, but definitely, I think a better test I will, well, I guess, married to them, just, I, that's my personal preference.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:31
Yeah, I guess I could have guessed that, but just just was curious. That's all I like it,

Speaker 6  1:31:38
because it also gives you category eight, category mood references and suggestions. So you don't have to know all the genomics. You can just say, Oh, looks like this. One's been approved for that. It looks like can actually be used to this. Or maybe I should check a fibrinogen based on this. So I like that.

Speaker 8  1:31:59
Wow. So many. It's so amazing, right? It's fascinating. I mean, I feel like the mainstream medicine, they don't do all these things that are so important, and everything this doctor chosky, he told us, for fatty liver, he's using mitochondrial peptides,

Speaker 6  1:32:25
and I think I'm using those a little bit now. I have a hard time finding really reliable sources and peptides and bio regulatory peptides. My United Kingdom peptide source keeps having trouble getting, you know, things I'm looking for, they're out of stock, or they're being used for clinical trial phase two, and now they're gone. So I really have a hard time finding good, good quality, dependable products. That's my challenge with the peptide world.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:57
Another question, we don't I didn't get a CME accreditation for this yet, so we'll go with this. Is there a particular branded dose of glutathione you recommend? Frequency and length of treatment

Speaker 6  1:33:13
depends on what I'm treating if they have all of those glutathione based SNPs, it's a lifetime thing. I do use a lot of pure encapsulations. When we were doing IRB processes for the research studies at clean clinic, they always passed. Several other companies did some things pass. Some things didn't you know, they may have metals or they may have not the milligrams that said on the bottle. Like there's a lot of variables, but that one always seemed to to come to the top. So I tend to lean on your encapsulations, mostly for for my glutathione, especially,

Speaker 9  1:33:48
okay, good. And just dose and frequency,

Speaker 6  1:33:53
yeah, so depends on what you're doing. But for a general maintenance, not treatment, it's 100 to 200 milligrams per day, like if they have a bunch of snips and they need some glutathione. And you can check red blood cell glutathione at commercial labs, by the way, so you want to keep them in high normal ranges. But yeah, 100 to 200 milligrams maintenance. If you're treating and you push someone on 500 you know, I hear 1800 700 1500 you're actually now detoxing. You're you're pushing them into Clean up, clean house. So just be ready for, Hey, doctor, I don't feel so good. You know all that stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:32
Yeah, way back when I think it was Dr Perlmutter was a prescribing 2000 milligrams to 3,003rd day for Parkinson's disease.

Speaker 6  1:34:46
Yeah, Ivy, especially, he was really and it was awesome. I have seen the same thing. We use 1500 to 3000 here in the clinic for a lot of your neurodegenerative presentations. And they get their toxic screen or toxic test to pass, and they're really high, and they're really we're trying to get them better quickly. I will try at least one time to see if they improve while I'm waiting on, like, their genomics and things like that to

Bill Clearfield  1:35:11
come back. Early on, I had one, I had one patient, and he was doing great. I mean, he was, you know, he went from rigid and pretty much non functional to back, almost back to normal. And then one day i i missed the vein, and it infiltrated, and then never saw he said, I heard him and he I never saw him again. Oh no,

Speaker 6  1:35:34
but you know you can do I am too. It just burns like fire. I don't know that I would ever do that, but you can

Bill Clearfield  1:35:41
that's this guy. So anyway, yeah, he was coming, like, twice a week, and we were giving

Speaker 6  1:35:47
he was probably a poor detoxifier, and they respond really well to that glutathione. It's pretty neat, actually. Not all of them do, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:35:58
then he never came back, so I don't know. Stiffened up. Dr Nario, any, anything, any, any, any words of wisdom that coming from the the integrative medicine fellowship on this topic.

Speaker 4  1:36:15
Yeah, so with, with detox, we talk a lot about this environmental talk, toxic toxicants, as we call it, and it is really playing a big role here. And it was even emphasized by the fellowship that there's not much training being done here in residencies and even in the medical school. And that's why the fellowship kind of gave us a good, thorough discussion about this. And when the one, the one big thing we have to always remember that when we start to look at toxins or heavy metals, we always need to look at fat fat cells, as mentioned by Dr Anna, that adipose tissue stores these specific lead even plastics that long we Have and when we detoxify, we lose weight, especially with the onset of GLP ones. Now, in our protocols and even in the in the programs of integrative practices, weight loss will start to detoxify these patients. And that's why, even in this setup that we're object, our objective to lower sugar and lose weight, we always have to get ready for getting phase one, phase two, phase three, detoxification pathways all set up when these things happen, and that's why this is something that regular endocrinologists or practitioners doesn't see. But as you see, we could emphasize the specific approaches of integrative practitioners, we have to be two, three steps ahead of the game in order for us to anticipate these specific issues. So yes, definitely we're just not looking at metals by itself, but we need to look into detoxification, and especially now losing weight is one of the bigger things, and how it plays a big role in this whole holistic health that we want to give to our patients.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:58
Okay, doctor, pidgeon, you have your hand up,

Speaker 9  1:38:01
oh yeah, just oops. I don't want to echo. I listened to your migraine lecture at in Utah, and it was really great. And I was, you know, really interested, because I have a patient who has vertiginous migraines for the last three years, and I can relate, because I've had them myself, and it's life debilitating. Thankfully I don't have them anymore. But, you know, and she's not someone that can afford all this extensive testing, so I'm, you know, I'm trying to think of the best next steps for her. I mean, she's being treated through neurology. And of course, she's on, you know, in gull and galdi. Now, I think that's how you pronounce it. Now, tamoptic, eye drops in draw neuro, triptylene. She's on the CO Q, 10, the bees, the magnesium. So I'm just trying to think like the next best step. And what I was talking to her about is one thing is her reverse t3 to t3 ratio is very low. That's one thing to maybe think about trying t3 just a touch but, or I was talking to her the other day about the glutathione, but then I'm doing all this research, and I'm seeing studies that do show that migraineurs do and show low glutathione, but there wasn't a lot of research to support me starting her on that you

Speaker 6  1:39:38
could do a revel in cell glutathione. But one of the things I would suggest, and you've probably already done it, but go back through, you're muted for some reason. Oh, here we go. Okay, yeah, one of my suggestions, one you could try glutathione, or you could test it. You could do a lab core red blood cell, glutathione, or you could and then you probably already done this. But if you haven't go back through even if you've done it before, go back through her timeline and listen for a trigger or a moment that clues you was it, you know, menopause? Was it a stressful course.

Speaker 9  1:40:13
She's nine years post menopause, and the only traumatic event she could say was her dad got really sick about two years ago, and she was traveling back and forth to take care of him. But he's since passed. It's been over a year. So no new change,

Speaker 6  1:40:29
no environmental change, no new house, no no anything like okay, so then you, you work your way out of all that business. And then that I would say, Yeah, I would try the glutathione. I would definitely top off the thyroid. Because remember, if she's at, well, I didn't say that, if she's a Dio two snip, that means she can't transport it across blood brain barrier. So if her t3 is low normal, but she doesn't have a lot available to the central nervous system, more prone to headaches, more prone to migraines, brain fog, etc. So just trying a gentle push. Now if her reverse t3 high, though, and you don't give her adrenal support or endocrine support, overall systemic fight or flight support, three days into that t3 boost, feeling great, lovely. All this energy, the parking brakes going to slam on, and she's going to be like, Oh, it's not working. And I was feeling good, and now I'm really tired, so make sure you're doing out some adrenal support of some sort. But, yeah, I would definitely

Speaker 9  1:41:25
just adaptogens, or any particular adrenal support.

Speaker 6  1:41:29
No, just adaptogens, pregnant alone, if she's low on pregnant alone or

Speaker 9  1:41:33
progesterone she's actually on. I put her on some progesterone. I did trial the hormone route, and she got window by the estradiol, but she's staying on the progesterone. Good, good.

Speaker 6  1:41:45
Yeah, that's a that would be a good first first step. Okay, I wouldn't be afraid to try the glutathione, just considering even the med she's on.

Speaker 9  1:41:54
Yeah, okay, all right. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thanks for

Unknown Speaker  1:42:01
listening. Probably late for some of

Bill Clearfield  1:42:04
you guys. Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions

Speaker 8  1:42:11
with us? Yeah, water, they said that it increases intracellular glutathione to 600%

Speaker 6  1:42:19
yes, exactly. And the challenge with reduced glutathione is only that it, when they did do the studies, it increased mucosal glutathione about 600 times. The challenge was it's water soluble. So they did see that they had to do at least the ID doses compared to liposomal. So that was one thing I did find, yeah, way cheaper, though, and it doesn't taste disgusting, so that's nice. Yeah. All right, thanks for having me. Thanks for having me. Thanks for all the good questions and dialog.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:54
One more combination of CBD and CBG. See of headaches, 200 milligrams of each, depending on severity of the headache. So I'm not sure what's personally what CBG is, but I'm old, and, you know, I'm still of the Reefer Madness era. So somebody can enlighten me on what CBG is.

Speaker 6  1:43:21
Only thing I do is it increases sleep compared to CBD.

Speaker 7  1:43:24
It's a it's the parent cannabinoid of CBD and THC. So that's what's made in the cannabis and hemp plant before it's converted to a CBD and THC. And it's non psychoactive, but it's really good for Neuro inflammation, pain and inflammation, that kind of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:40
So thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:43
Okay, thank you. Thank you, Dr ERPs, for being here, and especially on such short notice. Usually we say, if you know, if we enjoy, you know the speaker, especially if they're new, we we inflict ourselves on them, ourselves on them again. If we don't ask you back, then, you know, then we'll leave you alone.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:06
So, right, don't tell you personally, but thanks a lot.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:11
Too overly burdensome. That's Dr narios role. This was very enlightening, and I think it was, you know, just the right touch. You know, we had our census was down a little bit, I guess, because of the holiday. So next week, we have Piper dobner is going to be back. You know, she of the fecal transplant fame, and she'll be regaling us with more Tales from the GI suite. So we got folk stories. Yeah, we got to run into her a couple of times a 4m and sort Oh, she was in Reno, actually, the night before the arc, she was in me, I think the night before our conference started, she was, she gave a talk in Reno at a dinner too. So so she's pretty interesting. So we'll, she'll be on next week, same time, same station, same link I put in here. I didn't get a CME okay for this week, because I think Dr holos is somewhere else. I don't know where he is. I haven't been able to pin him down. So in the chat here, if you were at the conference and or online and you know, we're a member in good standing, in other words, ie you paid the link for the videos are up, and you can also get your CME credits through that, through the same link, and for the for the presentations, if you were not at the conference and would like to partake in, in all that we learned. And you can still get, and you can get 20 CME credits with it. Go to the second the second level there, the second one down and click that, and that'll take you through the registration. The first one you should have gotten an email with the with the password on it. If you can't find it, contact me, and I'll get it to you. I we're not going to give it out because we want to make sure, we want to honor the fact that you were, you know, you were with us in spirit, and you sort of kept us in outpo also. So we are actually starting to look at another conference, probably at the end of May, beginning of June, or maybe the end of June. I have to, I have to check the schedule, see where that where the big conferences are, you know, the A for MS and the AMGs and IFM as I think has has theirs also. So we try not to get into too much conflict with them. So remember, we're, a small group, but we're, we're feisty. And we had great reviews. We had great, great speakers, and, you know, we had a lot of, a lot of the folks that you see at the big conferences. So check it out again. Congress of medical excellence.com. The agenda is still there and whatnot. If you're interested in seeing what, you know, what went on. You missed the after, after hours shows that was, they were, they were really fun. And you missed all the food, because we, we fed everybody to the max and and with organic stuff too, which is, you know, kind of a kind of bonus.

Speaker 4  1:47:41
So no plastics. Dr Anna, no plastics,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:47
except for the flatware. No no plastics in the food. So, so again, if you were there, thank you so much. If you participated, double, thank you so much. There are the links there in the chat for the if you were there, the first one, if you weren't there, $199 get 20 C ama CME credits, and if you need them, especially by the end of the year. The link, the credits are good for, by the way, next December for next year, it'll be good for next year, good for the homeopathic word. Also, the link is, it's up a little bit here. Let me. Let me copy it and paste it again. Somebody said they don't see it, so here it is.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:40
Here they are again, okay? And you can get on there, on the if you go to the website, there's links for the for both also, okay. Dr, Anna, thank you so much, and I have a feeling we'll be reaching out and twisting your arm to come back and then not too future next week. Piper dobner, everybody have a great holiday, whatever, whatever your holiday is, and if it's no holiday, that's okay too. I will be I will be volunteering at the mission on Christmas Day, so that that's, that's my contribution. So, brownie points for you, yeah? Oh yeah, Brownie point. Say that that and I had nothing else to do. So was he lose money at the casino? Build it up a little bit. Yeah. You know, you know Joel. Joel is the influence there, you know, on that. So, so, no, I'm happy to do it. So Okay, everybody have a great whatever, whatever holiday or no holiday, we'll be we'll be around next week, again, same time, same station, and again, go to the website, if you didn't get, get the the links here on the chat. Thank you all for everything and a great year we've had all of the videos are on aosrd.org, most of the videos are on YouTube, except the ones that got banned. Oh, by the way, I muted out so you don't notice Dr Anna, a couple of weeks ago, Stefan, who was on before he was on with his mother. His mother, he's, he's trained her. She does one arm pull ups, and she gave us, she gave us. And they were doing all sorts of organic things that he was born in Germany, you know, 3040, years ago. And she mentioned the Gerson diet, and YouTube banned the video because that she all she said, said was that I tried the Gerson diet. That's all she said. And that's they banned the video for that. So I appealed it. They he said, No, that's the misinformation. I mean, she didn't even say it was, you know, all she said was the Gerson diet. She tried it for a little while. So anyway, I muted it out. I figured out how to mute it. Now it's on so it's on you 20 minute, 25 dot for 25 minutes and eight seconds, it's muted out. So, so you know, to get by the YouTube gods, you did good. Oh, it's on there. Okay, maybe Stefan, you put it on. I had it on Vimeo.

Speaker 5  1:51:25
Put it on. Spotify is cool with it,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:28
but it's on. It's on our YouTube channel now, and it's on the aosr. So it just muted out where mom mentions the cursed, yeah, he's ridiculous to me. John, you

Speaker 1  1:51:38
got anything, man, just appreciate the show. Thank you. Merry Christmas.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:43
Yeah, yep, great. Great holiday season for everybody. Merry Christmas, yeah. Dr Nerio, thank you for all your help this year. I couldn't have done it with it. Well, could have done it without you, but rather, not so, especially the regulars that are here every week. Thank you all for participating, and we kept that. We've been doing this now since October 2020, we've been doing this for five years running now.

Speaker 4  1:52:12
And hey, we do good things. That's why we're still here.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:15
Thanks. Then we'll see, we'll see which, which authorities and licensing entities will come down on us now. Gervana, okay, everybody, thank you so much. Dr, and I'll send you the video when it's ready, and I'll send you the participant list also.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:37
Okay, thank you. Bye. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai