Unknown Speaker  00:00
That should see

Speaker 1  00:36
I am unmuted. Can You hear me? I hear you. Fine, awesome. Thank you for being with us again.

Speaker 2  00:46
Well, thank you. It's been a long day and three days on insomnia. I woke up at two o'clock and really didn't sleep since then. So we'll see how my mitochondria are doing.

Bill Clearfield  00:57
Well, we'll see how they're doing. If not, I can always take over for you, right? I can read the

Speaker 2  01:01
slides, not a problem. And the beautiful thing is, I try not to read my slides. So,

Bill Clearfield  01:06
yeah, I know, I know. So I just, I just came back from, I had a quick trip to Florida. I was at a vitamin C conference.

Speaker 2  01:16
Wonderful is very Linus Pauling, of you. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  01:19
very Linus Pauling, I mean, I always start my lectures now with with the, sort of the key date. So like, for Linus Pauling, you know, wrote his thing in 1970 so I write, I write a little story at the beginning, like, you know, you're, we're researchers, and it's 1970 and I'm, I do, I look up all the things like that. You know those cards? You know you were born in 1970 Yes. So the the most popular card in the US that year was the Ford Galaxy. It was $2,800 gallon of gasoline was 31 cents. Loaf of bread was 24 cents. Dad went bought a house in the suburbs for $25,000 with $2,500 down, and it him and mom had a fight because he didn't know how he was going to make his $96 a month mortgage payment and minimum wage was about three bucks. That's impossible.

Speaker 2  02:12
Yeah, right. So, no, actually, I when I was 18 years old, I was working in a plywood mill, and I was making 15, $16 an hour. I'd work with time and a half. I mean, making 20 some dollars an hour, and the kids these days only come close to that work in menial labor. So, okay, so I have a full 60 slides, so I'm going to be plowing today. So people have questions. We can answer them along the way, but if they can wait, I'll continue my story. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  02:51
Well, you got some stories. I hope to have stories. Dr Naria always has stories for

Speaker 2  02:57
us. Well, I'm hoping, yeah, between you and him, you guys, if I go silent, you guys can fill in. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  03:04
So we always start with Him, though He he's taking Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship, and we start with the tip of the week. So he tells us what he learned this this week. So so we don't have to.

Speaker 3  03:21
I got bashed because I learned bicycle seats can increase your PSA, that was your first week. We're not going to go that route anymore.

Speaker 1  03:30
We knew. We knew that. We knew that in 11th grade, eighth grade,

Speaker 2  03:35
yeah, no. And actually, I got a special bicycle seat a long time ago, then I got a special seat cushion for my chair, because it's all pushing upwards so but

Bill Clearfield  03:46
when, when we were kids, if you had a girl's bike, they made fun of you.

Speaker 2  03:50
Hey, long ago, the banana seats. There we go. No, actually, Dr Wendy cahootsu, medical doctor, lectured with me as part of an R 25 NIH grant at the local medical school here, or OHSU, and I presented that the people that sat, you know, these, this is a billion built in the late 1800s I said the people that sat in these chairs five years ago didn't know anything compared to you folks, you guys have you folks, have more diagnostics, you have More therapeutics, and they're kind of antiquated compared to just five years. But imagine five years from now, the people that are sitting in these chairs will feel exactly the same way as you, unless you're a perpetual learner. And so that was my segue into, don't sit on your laurels, because we can all go to some doctor. So that was at some fancy school that was maybe top of the class or middle of the class. But I want a perpetual learner, because our fields are growing so rapidly. But her present, her present lecture was our little inspiration was, she's went up there. I'm winning for who's on a medical doctor. And I need to let you know antibiotics don't work. And this was, you know, circa 1999 so that was the equivalent of a microbe. She stayed quietly, quiet for about 1015, seconds after saying antibiotics at work. And I'll give you an example. And I'm sure your professors haven't told you this, but I'll give you an example. Antibiotics don't work. That a full blown AIDS patient, I don't care how many antibiotics you give, them not going to work. She says you have to have to have immune system at the same time.

Bill Clearfield  05:23
Yeah, if you have an if you have an ulcer, you know, if you have an ulcer patient and you give them Lisinopril, that's not going to work either, yep. So it's like, okay, you know, it was like, like, like, the ivermectin studies, you know, we were, we were given, I didn't even remember that there's so many milligrams per kilogram for five days, and then one day a week for one day a week for 10 weeks. And they, they wrote a study, they gave half the dose, and they only used it for three days, and said it didn't work. Well, you know, we expect,

Speaker 2  05:58
I mean, all of a sudden, you know, it's like, no surrenders, yeah, it doesn't work. I wonder why. Then I finished reading the tea leaves.

Bill Clearfield  06:06
Well, I'm even surprised you're bringing in the antibiotics up, Chris, you would be the anti antibiotic guy.

Speaker 2  06:13
Oh, hey, every once in a while, I got my stash. I'm all about off label. I've got some tegament here. You know, I Mr. Off label on all kinds of things. So, you know, the off label application of a lot of the meds that we were prescribed, disulfor, RAM for cancer, lot of the other things, of course, now there's just, you name it. So the

Speaker 3  06:39
nd board is okay with off label? They're in Oregon. Okay?

Speaker 2  06:46
It's a fine line. When you ask our board, is it okay to do this, they say you're a licensed healthcare provider. Our job is not to tell you whether it's okay or not, but we'll let you know if you're in trouble. That's their their that's exactly their answer. Oh,

Speaker 3  07:02
good, at least they give you freedom that way. Yeah, but you know,

Speaker 2  07:06
so it's like, but right now, I use a lot of compounding pharmacies. I do write prescriptions and so forth when needed, and I'm not going to die. Have a person die on me because I'm philosophical, but one of the most well known of the compounding pharmacies, still to this day, will not dispense oral ivermectin. They will only do it transdermally, because they're saying we're following the covid rulings, and we still believe them to be true, that ivermectin is for horses, whereas down the road, another more friendly compounding pharmacies. I got no problem. What were you like? 60 milligram pills, please.

Speaker 3  07:45
Dr Bill gets it from India. So, yeah, but

Speaker 2  07:49
now that, with the tariffs, trying to get it from India, there's a little bit of it.

Bill Clearfield  07:53
I haven't gotten it since then. The last, last batch I got was a 12 milligram 1000, 1000 pills for $155

Unknown Speaker  08:02
I have I have a similar supply.

Bill Clearfield  08:05
Of course. The box says, on the box, it says it's, it's ivermectin, but the pills are just plain white, and God knows what's

Speaker 2  08:12
Yeah, well, I think sometimes they'll call them stromac doll, they'll call them all kinds of things. But, yeah, but um, oh,

Speaker 1  08:18
it says, like, it says ivermectin on it. You know? It could say anything, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  08:25
but we get a lot of our meds from overseas these days, and so

Unknown Speaker  08:30
you guys are being recorded.

Bill Clearfield  08:34
That's the background recording. I don't even know where to find that one. The main one is off at the moment. Well, I'll let you I'll let you know when it's when you know when it's dangerous.

Speaker 2  08:45
So, yeah, Dr Burgess, um, we're always being recorded. My wife and I were talking about something, and all of a sudden she said, I'm going to send this to you. And it already had populated an Amazon link for scotch tape with my name across the dinner room table, and it had already been prompted for her. So push the button.

Unknown Speaker  09:06
Yeah, it's getting spooky.

Speaker 2  09:10
But I mean, with my hair, do I mean, I can? I can they'll never pin me down. Like, oh no, he looks like every other bald guy.

Unknown Speaker  09:17
So I'm a ball guy. Hey, Chris, you're from where

Speaker 2  09:21
I'm in, Oregon. Yay, Oregon. And if you if you have any questions, look at

Speaker 4  09:30
my tan. Yeah, the best parties in Eugene where everybody goes naked.

Speaker 2  09:35
Hey, well, I graduated Reed College, and my freshman year, we went through ancient Greece and Rome, and then we went through in spring, through Arthurian romances, and the first two rows of our auditorium, volume auditorium, they had reserve. You're not supposed to do that, but they reserved them. And it about 10 minutes in Professor Knapp wearing glasses like yours, similar hairdo, similar beard, was presenting on their theory of romance in Charlemagne, and in comes all these people in robes. They immediately stood there, made the dropped everything, stark naked. Professor Knapp went like this a little bit, took his glasses off and kept on going nothing he hadn't seen before.

Unknown Speaker  10:17
Hey, Oregon, people are real.

Speaker 2  10:21
We're really something, if nothing else, we make the news. I will tell you that

Speaker 4  10:27
I got a special place with Oregon. I think it's a holy place, and the people have been doing intense stuff there for what?

Speaker 2  10:34
Forever. Forever. I'm born and raised Portland, Oregon. I enjoyed the late 60s being bused for integration over to the other side of the neighborhoods, and it was all very all interesting.

Unknown Speaker  10:53
Welcome to the show. We're glad you're here.

Bill Clearfield  10:57
Yep, we are. So before, before we begin, Chris, first off, I just want to put a plug in for us for our upcoming conference, December, 4 to six in Reno. It's 20, ama, category one, CME credits. We have a plethora of speakers. The big the big ones are we got Dr swahar Sudan, Dr Felice Gersh, Frank, Frank Shallenberger, and I didn't know Thomas levy was such a controversial character. This weekend, I was at a vitamin D Conference in Clearwater, Florida, and I was talking to the proprietor there. And when I mentioned that, I mentioned it to see if they would like to come, you know also. And when I mentioned, apparently there's a war, go, vitamin D war, see vitamin C, I see, sorry. See not D, Vitamin C war between doctors, Dr Levy's group, and there's and there's the VC ici group, the one I spoke at, so when she heard that Dr levy was coming, and I don't know what the war is, I mean, I didn't get that far, but apparently there's a big there's a big split in the vitamin C community. I didn't even know there was a vitamin C, to tell you the truth,

Speaker 3  12:16
but what's the split? It's just vitamin C, right?

Bill Clearfield  12:19
You know what? I don't even know they had me so famished, I didn't know what the hell they were talking about, right? I had the doses all wrong. And I, you know, I have to take her $1,800.02 day, course, to know what's going on here.

Speaker 4  12:34
So, but I was, I was following that the last couple of weeks, and I noticed when push came to shove. Dr, nary, using it as usual as they do in a lot of things. So you're not that shy of it now. Doctor, oh,

Unknown Speaker  12:56
no, use it. I use a lot of high dose.

Speaker 4  13:00
We're not shy. Everybody I know has been doing it.

Bill Clearfield  13:04
So our regulars, Dr Burgess will be on. Dr Tanno is going to grace us with his presence. And as you know, he's way smarter than at least I am anyway. And Dr Anthony James going to be talking about again, bias in AI. We got heavy metal toxicity with Dr Peter Dimitri. We got the research group on Friday. That's Thursday afternoon. Dr Shallenberger will be talking about ozone on Friday. That will be homeopathy day. We'll first start off with Dr Sweden. She's going to give us some insights on bioidentical hormones and drug interactions. Dr levy will be speaking the whole morning after that, for three hours. We're bringing him up from Medellin, Colombia, so we had him at our conference in in Las Vegas in 2022 also we got Dana Ullman, who's another top notch homeopath. And if you're not interested in homeopathy, it's actually well worth your while to learn a little little bit about it. It's really quite, quite a fascinating topic. And I'm no consider myself a homeopath, but I use a lot of the principles as adjuncts to what I do.

Speaker 3  14:29
I think that Dr Devlin show is not homeopathic, right?

Bill Clearfield  14:35
On Saturday, oh, Friday night, by the way, we will be having, yeah, we have dinner and we have tea and keys, which is, which is a top notch group. They'll be playing for us at the at the hotel. And Saturday is integrative medicine day. I'm going to regale you with my 50 years as an anti aging doctor. I go through each decade and the breakthroughs that I used to enhance my practice all the way from those of you may have heard, when I was a medical student, I spent a month at the Pritikin clinic. If you don't know what that is, look it up. You know the original one at the Santa Monica Pier, Dr Felice Gersh will be talking about hormones in the brain. We'll be learning about radon from Christine Kelly, Dr Greg Jones, will be talking about ketamine and our own Marlene Siegel is our integrative veterinarian. And you know, it always sounds kind of crazy that someone like that, like veterinarian, speaking to us, but when you've heard her, I mean, she's been absolutely fabulous. We have a number of vendors. Well, all of the lunchtime event spots are taken. We have non CME vendors coming on Saturday. We have college pharmacy on Friday. We have Sierra pharmacy, and I forget Dr Dario, who's on who's on Thursday, Thursday solutions specialty or college specialty. So they're all compounding pharmacies. We still have some, some spots open in the morning. Dr Robin, if you want to sponsor us for breakfast, the six. I know it's quick. This was, this was that the the homeopathic board of Nevada had to sponsor a CME accredited 20 hours for their licensees, and that was the sort of the impetus for this. So we've we put this together pretty quickly, considering it used to take me eight months to a year to put together conferences. I've had a lot of help this time, though, that's made a big difference. Kevin Verlander, if you dealt with him, he's our IT guy. He's gathering all the information, and he, he's been great. All we, all, I have to do is say, you know, we need this. And it's done. Dr Nario has been a big help, and he got part of the program together. So it should be a great program. It's not that expensive. It is online. Also it's virtual. At Congress of medical excellence.com go to the registration page and and you know, we need, we need, we need you. We need bodies in the in the in the in the house, and we need you online. Also, we're not really looking to make any money here. We'd like to break even. Like I said, this was for the the, the for the homeopaths to get their credits. And it is at ama accredited.

Speaker 4  17:29
So sponsor last night, David Connelly spoke to last night. He wants to do it. He was going to call,

Bill Clearfield  17:35
you know, I think he could try to get in touch with me, but I didn't get him, so okay, I'll make sure I get in touch with him. Okay. Dr Nario, yes, all right, we're ready to turn it over to you for the tip of the tip of the week, and then we're going to Dr Melita is cooling his heels, so

Speaker 3  17:53
Alright, so today we're targeting a practical, integrative question, and we talk about vaginal hormone which, which is the one that best prevents UTIs in postmenopausal women. So Dr Bill, you're probably an expert on this, but I was not when I was introduced to this information. So we use vaginal hormones for dryness or libido, but when it comes to atrophy and recurrent UTIs, which, which one actually works. So I'll keep it evidence based first and fast and estrogen. DH, here, testosterone. So who wins this war, right? So bottom line, up front, vaginal estrogen has the strongest and most consistent evidence for preventing recurrent UTI so we're not talking about lubrication here atrophy. It's more about UTI prevention. The landmark RCT from 1990s actually showed that post menopausal women using vaginal estrogen. On this study, they use rings or creams, had significantly fewer UTIs over six months compared with placebo. The Cochrane Review and latter studies confirmed this, showing not only fewer infections, but also improve vaginal pH and restored protective lactobacilli. Mechanistically, it makes perfect sense why estrogen think is the vaginal epithelium increasing glycogen, which feeds the lactobacilli, lowers the pH and reduces colonization of uro pathogens. So guidelines from multiple societies now recommend low dose local estrogen as the first nine non antibiotic strategy to prevent UTIs in post menopausal women. So practical dosing estrogen cream point one milligram per gram, so one gram daily for two to four weeks, and one three times weekly for maintenance and vaginal habits or rings work similarly with minimal systemic absorption when used locally. The second one is, of course, pastorone, as we know, or vaginal DHEA promising, but not yet that proven. So it's the next option, and it's FDA approved, though, for a global vaginal atrophy in local, I guess local converts to estrogens and androgens into the vaginal tissue. 2022 the observational study found that women using pastorone had improved mucosal health, fewer reported UTIs, especially those unable to use estrogens, like a breast cancer, for survivors, for example, who are on aromatase inhibitors. However, these results are preliminary. Large RCT trials are underway in relation to again, UTI prevention, DHEA cream, 10 milligrams per gram, one gram daily, two to four weeks, then one to three times a week, almost similar to estrogen and again, lastly, with B testosterone and the classification of prevention of UTI. It's still experimental, unfortunately, and small pilot studies like OUP academic 2023 are exploring this, but we don't have control data yet, so it's different to, again, lubrication and I guess addressing atrophy, it's more of prevention of UTI. So recommended doses would be, it's quite a range, 300 micrograms to one milligram per application daily, several days a week. And again, this is something very, very broad. So takeaways, vaginal estrogen best proven and guideline back and effective for both vaginal health and UTI prevention. DHEA promising and physiologic, but still under study. Testosterone, interesting, but currently experimental. So vaginal hormones were kitchen tools. Estrogen is your proven non stick pan keeps UTIs from sticking around. DHEA is the new designer spatula. Looks great, but needs more testing. And testosterone is a prototype gadget still in the box being tested. So again, that's your tip of the week.

Unknown Speaker  21:32
Okay, well done. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  21:34
So, you know, my experience, I like test intravaginal testosterone. I think I got, you know, you get, you get more than just the, you know, the prevention, you really, we see menopausal in a vasomotor symptom relief, with with vaginal testosterone also. So I tend to go towards that I'm pretty comfortable with it on use one milligram per gram, and I use it once, once, once a night for 14 nights, then three times a week for 14 nights, and then once or twice a week as needed. It's Caroline. I don't know what she She's her, her take on that is,

Speaker 5  22:22
yes, it's, it's a bomb, the tissue, the where you get dyspareunia, the opening to the vagina, full of testosterone receptors. Many women have pain there because of birth control pills and high sex hormone binding globulin. So it's really nice to put it there. The clitoris atrophies. It's good to use it directly on the clitoris too. The bladder and urinary tract tissue is full of testosterone receptors as well. The whole thing, I learned that at ish wish.

Bill Clearfield  22:58
Okay, there's a question, and then we'll get to Chris's. Is there risk of clitoral hypertrophy? I've never seen it with the doses we use. You know, if you overdose it, I'm supposed there. There's a there's a chance of it. But I've never seen it.

Speaker 5  23:17
We had one doctor had had a couple cases, she was using six milligrams per gram testosterone cream and had some hypertrophy, so she backed off.

Bill Clearfield  23:30
Yeah, well, that would do it. The AMG guys would, would probably choose that the guys are taking seven milligrams of estradiol a day. Oh, wow, the post menopausal men there. That's interesting. That's a whole another story.

Speaker 5  23:48
I just, I just put up a Facebook page progesterone for men.

Bill Clearfield  23:54
Oh, okay, I'm going to take a look at it. Yeah, please come over there in the meantime. Doctor Chris Miletus, who's been with us before, and is an educator, international, author and lecturer. His personal mission is changing the world's health one person at a time. Good luck on that. Dr valitus believes that when people become educated, their body is the moment when change begins. He's authored 16 books, 200 national scientific articles, including in such journals and magazines as natural health, alternative and complimentary therapies, Townsend letter, life extension and natural pharmacy. He served as the dean of natural naturopathic medicine and Chief Medical Officer for seven years, and was awarded the 2003 physician of the Year by the American Association of naturopathic physicians. Chris has been with us a couple of times before, and we always enjoy his talks. He's very insightful. And Chris, I turn it over to you.

Speaker 2  24:50
Well, thank you. And I always enjoyed this is my favorite group, no lie. And or, as the Gen alpha would say, no cap, which would be no lie. So by the way, I'm a big fan of also hyaluronic acid. For those that are hormone avoiding hyaluronic acid, there's some nice European studies on the vaginal tissues equal to estrogen in some studies, but not the glycogen side of things. But kind of wonder about the hyaluronic acid also being food for the friendly bacteria. So I'm going to talk about lots of things. Most of you folks already know, the vast majority of it. If I can tease your synapses on a couple of new novel things, I'll be surprised, but I'll try, and we'll talk about long haul covid. There's a couple of interesting things. There's an oxaloacetate, which we'll chat about in passing. We'll talk about also a little bit about a new site that's yet to be published. It's coming out November 14 on NAD but we're going to also talk about, how is it that our patients are ill and however they're ill, they're however they're tired, however they're worn out. The question is, we have to rise all the ships in the harbor, the 37 trillion cells. When I asked a question back in New York about 14 years ago, I was given a lecture on genetics and epigenetics. I said it was 7am I flown in at 11 o'clock Eastern, Eastern Standard Time, and I was a 7am lecturer, and I was tired. And of course, I always make the joke I had to do my hair. So I told him I was particularly tired, having to be all prim and proper for them that I said, some of you are tired. How many cells in my body have to be tired before I feel the tired I perceive the tired I can speak of being tired. Is it a million cells? A billion cells? And are they brain cells? Are they adrenal cells? I said, I don't know. I'm going to tell you lots of things I do I don't know if that and no answers. And this is at Integrative Health symposia, lots of medical providers. There lots of medical doctors and osteopathic physicians and other allied health care providers, and there was no answer. Then I asked the question, well, how many cells in my finger have to hurt before my finger is perceiving as hurting? And I says that before you answer that, have you not had a paper cut that hurt worse than a cutting a tomato and cleaning your finger in the kitchen? And the answer is yes, so lots of things which we don't know. So today's conversation will be about the mitochondria fatigue and rising all the ships in the harbor at once. So we'll discuss, of course, mitochondrial aspects of chronic fatigue, Long Haul covid, which we see a lot of it. I have I wrote an article for Indian R which I reference in this presentation, oxaloacetate. There's some nice clinical trials on oxaloacetate. We all remember that from our basic sciences, biochemistry of that lovely citric acid, Kreb cycle. We'll talk about NAD of course, because, as many of you know, I do present a lot on NAD but really the steroidal Genesis, and it comes down to our mitochondria. After all, cholesterol touches upon the mitochondria, the mitochondria system. Let me make some pregnant loan so you make all your other steroidal hormones. And when we educate our patients, why are we doing a pregnant alone? Why don't you just give me estradiol? Why don't you give me a bias? Why don't you give me well, because the pregnant woman, the dhe as we know are, have independent benefits along the way. Plus, do we just give a person, or you teach them the fish and backfill? And I find with my andropausal menopausal individual and the peri causal individuals, that once again, you have to support all these other factors as well. So we know long haul covid becomes it's kind of an old topic these days, but in general science 2024 they spoke to the fact that in 2024 7% of adults in United States, about 17 million people, were experiencing some level of Long Haul covid. And I have just in my small little practice, I only practice part time, dress the time. I'm a consultant. But I mean, I have a handful of people with long covid, and some are in that disabled capacity. They're smart, they're capable, but they are chronically fatigued, and they got brain fog and so forth. More than 70% of covid survivors suffer from some ongoing post infection, and these are the common symptoms, but there's some 200 diagnosable signs and symptoms for people with long haul covid. So this is my Indian art article that I had published in 2025 here September. It talks about the things which we already knew, the brain fog and the fatigue. Are big ones, DYS equilibrium, dysautonomia, very, very common. Some people will have the paresthesias. Some people have primarily gut related issues. When I look at Long Haul covid, yeah, we can talk about spike proteins, which we'll chat about a little bit, and some of the documented approaches to that as well. But the question is, could this presentation apply to anybody with any chronically fatigue driven virus, Epstein Barr Virus, cytomegalovirus, herpes six virus, I would argue, yes it could. Very much so. And when we get into the nuances of CD 38 which, of course, over the course of time, starts sequestering NAD for example, and it's part of the aging process. You know, our immune system definitely needs to be fueled properly. But why are these people not bouncing back? And why do some people lose their sense of smell from covid? And is that a zinc deficiency, which, of course, is pretty prevalent, and or is it an ad insufficiency, or is it something else? And why is it that olfactory nerve hit and knowing the olfactory nerve, cranial nerve, number one, directly conduit into our brain, is for a clue there

Speaker 2  30:28
so long covid, adrenal fatigue, syphilis, chronic fatigue syndrome, they have overlapping pathophysiology. It's noted in the peer reviewed literature lot, and it all comes back to the mitochondria as a common theme, the only thing we all know, it's not that easy, but a common thing. And so they got the persistent fatigue, they got the brain fog, they got the multi system dysregulation, including the dysautonomia. And then, as a result of that mitochondria dysfunction, we start seeing oxidative stress, immune dysregulation, metabolic disturbances, endothelial issues. Now, of course, we can go into a whole litany of things about spike proteins, cause hyper cradle ability and other things. Another day, another conversation that's not recorded, but we can kind of surmise that, you know, covid is unique, but is it not a crossover for all our other patients with chronic fatigue as well. I would argue the mitochondria is always going to be something that we focus on so but at the same time, well, what about our adrenal glands? Because, after all, it comes down to susceptibility, and I'm sharing this information in a primary, very simple way, because we all have to learn, and then we all have to come up with a story to share with our patients. So I share a lot of stories because this is how I relate it to my patients. So of course, I point out the adrenal glands. And so let's say a person was adrenal insufficient. We're not going to say adrenal deficient. We're not Addisonian. They're just creeping along and then they get walloped with the cytokine storm of a virus like covid, and then that further captured adrenal glands. They weren't making the cortisol and cortisone at that 20 milligrams, minimal dose physiologically per day, and they have breakthrough symptoms, and they're much more susceptible. And that comes back to the concept of a germ theory. I shake everybody's hand in this virtual room. And but does everybody get my cold that I have no because not everybody's equally susceptible. So the adrenals come into play here, and but also the adrenals we think ACTH. And when I talk to most of my colleagues, they're talking about adrenal cortex. And so I apologize, it looks like my landscaper showed up today instead of on Friday. So um, so hopefully I'll talk a little louder so you don't have to hear him too much, but he's clearly making noise out there. So my apologies. So then we have the adrenal glands. We got the cortisol levels and but well, what about the adrenal medulla? How many of us actively treat the adrenal medulla? After all, that's where adrenaline comes from. Hence the adrenal glands? Well, we don't, and we'll chat about that today. But when we come to the mitochondria, we see, of course, we got to fuel the Zona glomerulus, and these are all things we learned in histology and pathophysiology, plus the zona fasciculatas, zona reticularis and but there's a medulla with the adrenaline and norepinephrine levels both, and we start thinking, well, if I was to give somebody an amphetamine, let's call it overall, might help with their attention deficit, help with their brain fog. Yes. So once again, if our adrenals are worn out and we don't have a lot of adrenal medulla function, let alone when we get to the locus coeruleus, which we'll chat about in a moment in the brain, it's like, okay, well, we start getting that some more of that brain fluff. So is it merely cortisol levels? Of course not. Is it adrenal medulla in part? Yes. And how do we quantify that? Do we do a neurotransmitter test? Do we do a standard blood draw to look for meta nephron and so forth? But I like to look at treating all those tissues. But how can you do that, in part, by taking care of the mitochondria so at least those tissues have the ability to be inherently residual and resilient. But then we get over here to a great 2023 this is a diagram from that journal, and it talks about hyper and hypocortisolism. We all know about hyper. Most of us have practiced long enough to remember that before we had all these biological drugs we can give somebody like with lupus or something, a whole lot of prednisone, and all of a sudden their symptoms updated, because their autoimmunity, their self attack also went down, their immune system went down. But we see with blunted cortisol levels. We see a milieu of problems and changes in growth hormone levels, but decrease cortisol levels. So once again, the adrenal fatigue person before they started suffering from Long Haul covid or being chronically fatigued and disabled and then having that mental sequelae, they have increased pain sensitivity and decreased pain threshold. But if I gave somebody with bursitis cortisone injection, their bursitis kind of goes away. Well, that's but now we're not making our 20 milligrams per day, minimum, which is the height, you know, how much we would replace with hydrocortisone per day for a pan pit patient, a patient with no pituitary gland, which I have, one which I manage. Then when she gets a fever, I crank it up by five or 10 milligrams so she gets stressed out by watching the news. I have to adjust it, because she doesn't have that physiological ability and choosing a catastrophic accident, even the endocrinologist say, Hey, do 50 milligrams or 100 milligrams hydrocortisone to save her bacon, because otherwise she'll go into adrenal failure. So, but we see here, of course, we have genetic polymorphisms as well, but so that's on the HPA axis. But then we get over here to the sympathetic side of things, and what's going to neural medulla, the splenic nerves. But then we also start seeing that when we're just wired all the time, and whether you have a category mental transfers, and you're a warrior or the worrier, but you have alteration in your heart rate variability, increased catecholamines, welcome to blood pressure and even maybe white coat hypertension in part. But we start seeing changes in cognitive well being. So I argue, adrenal gland cortex and medulla at once, and treat it in concert, opposed to just hydrocortisone or adaptogenic Earth, but also giving some in acetyl tyrosine, giving some other things to support the adrenal medulla as well. And so when they look at hypercortisolism in the peer review literature, see lots of references on the slide. And they look at what do they find that some 20 to 25% patients with stress related disorders, and including chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic pelvic pain, fibromyalgia, interesting post traumatic stress, irritable bowel low back pain, burnout and atypical depression, they all have a hypercortisolism in common. So it's like, where does that cortisol level fall and where do we want to see it? And I give the example for my patients. If I was to wish them well, I would take away their technology, and then I would say, go to the Caribbean or go to the mountains, I will provide you fresh fruits and vegetables. You will have no connectivity. You get your daily massage and whatever mindful practice you want. And over the course of six months, with that routine, they're going to start making their 20 milligrams of higher fur zone. Lots of aches and pains will go away. And it's much like Shinran yuku, which is a forest bathing which we chat about briefly. It's like we're just disconnected. We're not grounded. And so once again, we continue to take from the well and deficit span, and it doesn't work for us. So here's an example of cortisol. Then there's free cortisol levels, just like we have total sex hormone and then we have sex hormone binding globulin. But then the question is, how does that person present? And I'm sure you do the same thing I do. I'll tell my patients. So this part is a very subpathetic example here. Well, so only time you kind of feel alive is in the evening, and then you're dead to the world. But now, of course, we know the night owl. Of course we'll have that spike in the evening. The hydro force levels are a little higher, but this is a person who's dead to the world. They have breakthrough inflammation. They're fairly miserable. And then you can see this person I can get rather silly hungry right around eight or nine o'clock in the morning, and then you're just scarfing again. Yeah. How do you know that? Because cortisol is a thing that woke us up in the morning, from an ancestral perspective, at melatonin started dropping circadian rhythm. Course, all because all the things which we know, but I share this with my patients so they understand what this data set means to them. And when we can start reading the tea leaves, so to speak, and say, this is when you feel the best, this is where you feel the worst, and this is when you're out to lunch and like, how do you know that? Well, that's what your adrenals are telling us, but that's adrenal cortex. Well, what about the adrenal medulla and sympathetic side of things? So the leukocerus, of course, located in the pollens by the fourth ventricle, but it actually releases norepinephrine. And what dampens that release of norepinephrine, blunts it a little bit, is having sufficient cortisol levels. So if you don't have sufficient cortisol levels, this is why our patients are dead to the world. There are significant other saying, Yeah, I don't know. Sometimes he's just out of it, or she's just out of it, then all of a sudden they're they're on. The light has switched on. That's because they're on an adrenaline dump, and there's enough, not enough hydrocortisone, to actually dampen that adrenaline dump. And so they're on, burning the candle at both ends and in the middle, and then they crash even harder, and yet again, because they lose energy they didn't have. So it's interesting to see the local cereal is playing a role in that, and that we don't have enough cortical releasing factor or critical releasing the hormone, and enough responsiveness from our adrenal cortex, our norepinephrine is going to run its gamut and cause us to be very unhappy. And this is an example you hear occasionally of a person ripping the car door open after it was jammed in the jaws of life, putting into the door off it the mom did, or the dad did, once again, working on adrenaline survival.

Speaker 2  39:58
But this is my fun part. As we learn more and more we learn about the microbiome, and many of you know that I bought my 18th book on the mitosis, microbial, metosomal you and how we have microbiomes throughout the body, the bladder and the prostate and the uterus and onwards throughout the body, even they argue the bloodstream in the brain, and they all work like the tentacles a neural network of ancient forest. But now the question is, well, how do our mitochondria also work in concert? So we've got our mitochondria here. We got cholesterol. Go through the CYP 11, a one. Let's make it pregnant alone. Of course, we're going to make our 17 hydroxy progesterone, or progesterone, and then we start seeing this whole aspect. But if we don't have the steroid genic, acute regulatory protein working properly, let's argue there's a polymorphism there, then we're going to have truly a mitochondrial dysfunction, or a diagnosing mitochondriopathy, which we'll see didn't have to use an ICD 10 code for. But so much of this is subclinical, but the really part that I like to point out here is we got our cortisol to cortisol back and forth. Well, if I tell my patient, if I have a rush, I put hydrocortisone on help with my aches and pains or my rush. Of course, your cortisone or injection, we get the idea. So if you don't have that, you're gonna have breakthrough inflammation and have a hyper immune system and higher CRP to all things being equal. And then, of course, we look at, of course, our odgwdoan and lots of times we'll start seeing with our patient that has adrenal fatigue or adrenal insufficiency, that their sodium potassium are low off. Well, of course, we're treating the entirety adrenal including adrenal glomerulosa, and that process when we treat the adrenals, ideally when we take care of the mitochondria. So back to the mitochondria as a simple way to give the energy to the body. And I give a silly little example. Everything is a word salad in my mind. Got a little adrenal gland here, a little pac man or a woman, and you feed us some rhodiola, ashwagandha, ginseng, schissandra, whatever. And all of a sudden, but did you not hear from the doctor that my adrenal glands are tired and I'm retired, so how? What am I supposed to do with that I don't have the energy to barely exist, let alone take some other thing and fuel and adapt? And so once again, we have to have the adrenal glands have the energy or the brain or the heart or the muscle or whatever the damaged tissues are to, of course, come back online. So we all know the classical symptomology of adrenal fatigue. It goes without saying, but I like to point out Popeye olive oil and this fine fellow wimpy my favorite character back in the day, not because I thought I was going to grow up to look like him, but I gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today. Classical deficit spending, I'm going to borrow from tomorrow to get through today. And so what we see, of course, is we see fatigue. We see the energy crashes. We see the anxiety that why you're tired for sleep because also of a person's cortisol levels drop at night, their blood sugar scheme, go hypoglycemic, and when we get hypoglycemic, what happens? We have an adrenaline dump, which further feeds that vicious catch 22 but we also see what people adrenal insufficiency. They have joint pain, they have brain fog. They have phravines Because they're self medicated, much like the diabetic has the three P's, polyurea, polygypsy, polyphasia. Well, here they're like, Okay, I'm going to fuel myself because I don't have cortisol to maintain my blood sugar. So you get into this vicious test 22 and or they're craving the salt or whatnot. But I give the example of Popeye when I was growing up. I'm a product of morning, Saturday morning cartoons, and also Betty and Wilma of the Flintstones. They would, of course, be the Nemesis nemesi for their significant others by saying charge, and they were going to charge with a charge card, a little piece of rock there, and particularly, they're going to go spend a lot of money, once again, borrowing from tomorrow to get through the day. It doesn't work for our government. Doesn't work for our households. So when we look at the adrenal glands and the metronome and fatigue, what is it that causes our patients to be long haul? Covid adrenal fatigue, worn out is that the thyroid gland the human metronome when I grew up as a young doctor, and 92 is when I graduated. My mentor was Dr John H Jeffries. He was a chiropractor, a naturopathic doctor, a medic in the Navy, and he was a pioneer in a row. He did in office, ether, major surgeries that I, of course, did not participate in, and he did a lot of other creative things, but he also taught me some really great techniques on adjusting the spine. He's just clever. Felt, but the we used to take basal body temperature, some of us may still encourage our patients and monitor their temperature, but that's a metronome. But what is the metronome for everything, including our mitochondria, which we'll chat about we have, our adrenal gland resilience, our peak gonadal function. Of course, we know about free gonadal senescence, and then we have, of course, fertility as a path of that restorative sleep. Of course, I do a lot of testing for apnea. I just diagnosed 124, pounds, 63 year old woman with moderate, severe apnea, and she was wondering why she was having body habitus issues. She eats like a bird. She works out consistently, but she just feels tired to the world. And so our brain, our heart, everything needs it, but it comes down to our mitochondria need to have a aspect of functionality, and our thyroid plays a role in that. But what has caused this young person to lay there and just be white. Do they she over observe? Does she have a stroke? Does she have a heart attack? Does she not get enough sleep, or does and how many cells in her body, and what part of their cells is it the mitochondria? So if her adrenals had enough mitochondria, her brain had enough mitochondria, the rest of her body had enough mitochondria, would she be like this in terms of charge. They say when we're 30 years old, we make about 60 kilograms of ATP. And for every decade past that, all things been equal, phronological and biological age. But at the age of 30, we make 60 kilograms, and for every decade after that, we make 10% less. So 60 kilograms, that is per day we make when we're 30 years old. So of course, we're phenomenal recyclers and reusers. So they give an example here of the adrenal cortical cells. Some of the processes going on here acts going through the pathway. Here's cholesterol going through our path into the pregnenolone and feeding into pregnenolone to progesterone onwards. But even our adrenal cells. So what are we doing? So we give them our normal protocol, but as part of our normal protocol, also to give adrenal support. So what I like about this particular mindset is adrenal support is modular to any of our protocols. So we're doing fertility, if we're doing brain rehab, or we're doing cardiovascular work, where we're doing whatever it might be post surgical work. We're looking at, well, how do I support the mitochondria so that our anabolic and catabolic balance are there? But you also see here acetyl CoA, and welcome to the world of red yeast rice and the statin drugs. I just have a patient that I diagnosed with prostate cancer. He went off to the Mayo Clinic. He chose to get five intense radiation therapies, opposed to the protracted radiation, proton and his now, his PSA is good, but they put him on a statin drug because as an aortic bulge, so they put him on a statin drug. He's down to 97 cholesterol. He's excited. His cholesterol is so low. I rattle off everything in his body that requires cholesterol. And of course, he's also on hormone blocking anti

Speaker 2  47:56
androgen therapies as well. So he has no testosterone. His testosterone serum testosterone, was a two by the way, his cholesterol is non existent. His pregnant alone is modest. Dearth is same as with his DHEA, but once again, that lovely little cycle here. But how many of our colleagues think about what happens when we start poisoning our cholesterol pathways, start lowering those levels, start altering that feedback loop, and what is doing to the mitochondria. So we look here at estrogens and testosterones or progesterones, we know that, as we started out with a great commentary about vaginal pelvic health, well, estradiol actually helps with biogenesis of the mitochondria. So the question is, when we're starting to do that therapy locally, or helping with some mitochondrial support, which also helps with real epithelization. Now they're taking a good multivitamin with some vitamin A, some folate, in terms of methylene full methyl tetra, methylene tetrahydrofolate. Are we also helping those vaginal tissues become more energy rich to actually take up the nutrients in the body, and then, of course, compensate, and if there's friction and traffic in that area, is it also helping them become more anabolic and being compensatory. But when we talk about the mitochondria, we can talk about the steroidal hormones, the steroidal Genesis all day long. But it's also where our M, a O and M A B, so m, A, O and M, A, B, actually degradation comes. So now all of a sudden, if we don't have good, healthy mitochondria, might we have a catecholamine imbalance. Let's get that wired side of things, constantly anxious side of things. And the question, which I plant, because I don't know the answer to it, did covid and covid illness, whether it be vaccination or whatever we want to call it, and having gotten covid Because people that even were vaccinated, of course, contracted covid, even though we were told we weren't going to get it. So the question is, did it also alter the mitochondria? We know it altered the microbiome. There's quite a bit of literature on that, which I won't go through today, but the Mao a and Mao B are breaking down norepinephrine and dopamine, and so it's like so is that why we're seeing so many more anxious people? Or was it just that we had endured a psyops for three to four years where we had to follow certain rules that couldn't have here in Oregon, more than three people to your house. Otherwise we were supposed to turn our neighbors in. So was it that, or was it also that our mitochondria got damaged from this process? So then we get to our thyroid gland, and our thyroid gland when we help a patient, a hypothyroid patient, their TSH is elevated, which is neither here nor there. Most of the time, their t4 and t3 are low. The reverse t3 might be on the higher side relative to the where it is on the free t3 but then when you stimulate the thyroid, well, the thyroid stimulates the mitochondria. There's no question about that, and I'll show you some slides on that. So now all of a sudden, we're stimulating the mitochondria, but the mitochondria don't have barely enough substrate to get the job done to start with, and this slide is indicating non alcoholic fatty liver now, of course, called ma SLD, so it's like all sudden when we work on the mitochondria, often fatty liver gets better. The liver enzymes, liver function tests, get better. Likewise, when we work on the mitochondria and the thyroid, cholesterol levels start dropping as well. So it's kind of interesting. Once again, we're starting to fuel the energy to demonstrate the machine inside us. But what do we have enough substrate so we're now speeding up the mitochondria, and will they start feeling better for a while and then pit her out. We all have our patients as I felt better for a while, then it wore off, Doc. And why is that? Is that because our therapy wore off, or did we now find the next rate limiting factor and then so, yeah, we hit the next rate limiting factor. Your thyroid dosing did not wear off, but what its stimulation to the cells came to the next sink in the arm or the next weak spot. And I give the example with our adrenal fatigue patients, our Long Haul covid patients. They were treating them for thyroid, and we go ahead and support their thyroid without supporting the other processes. It's like bug on the windshield. Now you're barely functioning with what was coming towards you, and now it's and that's going to further stress their drills, stress their neural cognitive well being, and cause them to be absolutely, totally miserable, not by intention. But then we look at the mitochondria from a t2 t3 perspective. So we know t3 we've known this forever. Goes down to the mitochondria, and the mitochondrial DNA even, and actually speeds things up. So we're speeding up the mitochondria when we get conversion of t4 let me go thyroxin Synthroid to t3 but what about t2 t2 alone has some therapeutic benefits. So is that an argument why we might consider for not considering a law or kosherness, a porcine based t3, t4 that's standardized but it has a non standardized amount of t2 in it is that why some people respond better to a pig based thyroid or opposed to a levothyroxine set amount, or Synthroid side amount? Is it because that t2 for them floats their boat? It's the soup du jour for them? So I applied that as a major thought provocation for today. It's like now we can see the AMPK pathway is in tunes and the parps and so forth, that both the alpha and the delta. It's like, I'm intrigued this really did when I was doing research on this slide. Is that why my patients seem to do better on pig based? Because you can argue, well, you can give them side of melon, you give them, you know, thyroxine or synth writing, but sometimes it doesn't float them the same way. Then we have our glucocorticoid for steroids, of course, most potent are of our anti inflammatories. We know hydrocortisone bio identical. And then we see the suppressing effect that Pro and anti inflammatory effects, the HVA axis, the immune function. I have down some hydrocortisone cream here as just a very simple example that if a person has adrenal fatigue and you give them hydrocortisone, I have some hydrocortisone right here as a prescription well, because I happen to be that flat line fellow that I showed you earlier, and it's like, okay, well, I'm going to have breakthrough inflammation. I'm going to have more neuro inflammation. And therefore, with that neuro more neuro inflammation, am I going to have more brain fog? The answer circling Yes. So I give the example of higher porcelain cream for my patients, because they get it. They know if I if they rub that on their rash, is going to get much, much better. And then they I say, now imagine that throughout the entirety of your body. And so how do we get your body endogenously to make it and in their short term, if I have to give a person a fish until they can learn to fish, I'll do that to get them out of the proverbial hole. And I give the example of a tow truck. So sometimes there's a reason for a tow truck, and you use your prescription pad to get them out of it, and then we, at the same time, are trying to get them to do it by themselves. It's very simple little thing I put together. We have our adrenal glands. We have our mitochondria the center, and of course, it ties to everything, our psychological well being, our thoughts, how epigenetics alters our genetics, mitochondria again, inflammation, immune dysfunction. They all come in concert, but without our mitochondria. And so one could ponder back to a very controversial topic at one point in time. Go, once upon a time, there was a eukaryotic cell, so they said, and there was a prokaryotic cell, which ultimately became our mitochondria. Somehow they were in the same time and space, and the eukaryotic cell says, you know, I would like to make this prokaryotic cell part of me. And somehow, they somehow decided they were going to exist. And now our eukaryotic cells have mitochondria. I'll just let you figure out how that happened and when and how were they so close to each other, and how it sounds. Intend to be somewhat facetious, but also thought provoking, but this is the take home for my patients, and it's by no means the end of our presentation, but all the ships in the harbor rise with the tide, unless you have a hole that would be an under fueled tissue of some sort. So think of the tide as the mitochondria. Mitochondria energy ATP production. So we don't want to rise all at once. So, but when you give mitochondrial support, you're going to be supporting everything good, bad and ugly. And now we have to, of course, make that energy directional. So now, of course, we don't go over to the boardwalk.

Speaker 2  56:23
I think I've shown this slide before in one of my other presentations, but I love to give the example of my iPhone and my apps. My Apps are the DNA in various cells. They represent DNA. They're software programs, brain cells, fingernail hair, not my hair, somebody's hair, and if you feel it properly, they're going to, of course, have better function. It gives us that full genetic potential. So back to the mitochondria and ATP production. But then we go to histology class. My professor in histology, when I was in allopathic medical school, MDS medical school, was Dr Guha. Dr Guha was an Indian gentleman, and we were lurking on glandular tissues at the time. We weren't looking at the adrenals, we were looking at Thyroid and thyrocytes and so forth. And he says, can you tell me this was back. I'm dating myself. Your old woman bush. Remember she had the bulging eyes, God bless her, not her fault, but she had EXO thalamus from hyperthyroidism. And he said, Dr Guha, and I was as smart alec then as I am now. And Dr Guha says, what condition does Barbara Bush have? And I said, she has a very grave condition. Dr Guha, he says, What did you say? And I said, he has a very grave condition. Dr Guha, and yes, I did say that. And as a recap of it, but when we look at our histological cells, are they fueled? That they're not fueled? How can they do their job? So that's why I put the silly little plug in here to the electron transport chain. You can see where I put the little cord. Put three little pictures together here. We got a few that we have to make that ATP, otherwise those cells aren't no matter how much odgwdola, if they don't have the ability to take that up and adapt and adapt the gens, not tough. So when we look here at NAD number, we're tied into NAD but we're spent quite a bit of time on cell acetate today as a therapeutic tool that's been peer reviewed and actually has been shown to a level and sufficient that the FDA is given in a medical food status for chronic fatigue syndrome, oxaloacetate, that lovely little intermediary of our Citric Acid Cycle, which, when in a stabilized form, actually works wonderful. But we look at here all our little sirtuin pathways, our parps and our CD 38 so remember, CD 38 degrade NAD. They start cranking and munching our NAD as we get older, even in a disproportional amount. And of course, then we're using sirtuins and parts to mitigate immunological aspects of things. And CD 38 are also immunological. We start seeing like and we're going to get to some students, 123, but also five, which has to do with the mitochondria as well, but 500 different enzymatic pathways for NAD and these are drugs for a 2008 article that was done by a colleague of mine, and it speaks about drugs that our patients have came to us having Been on and of course, we know all about the MaHA and Tylenol may contribute to and then people on social media are swallowing down acetaminophen to say, see, we don't believe those guys. There's not gonna hurt my like, whatever. That's a political commentary. But we know acetaminophen does deplete glutathione levels. We know if you take enough acetaminophen in one fair swoop, good luck. If even the emergency room can save your bacon, and one of the therapeutics that they use for acetaminophen poison is milk thistle, still to this day, then we have lidocaine, way of propofol, the Twilight meds. And did Michael Jackson and Joan Rivers die of propofol, as a claims was in their system or some other nefarious process. But you go ahead and start having these different procedures done, you have certain medications, and then all of a sudden, antidepressants like fluoxetine, and it's like, Hmm, there's three fluoride molecules, another thing that might muddle our brains. And then we have our anxiety meds. Now we can throw in here Cyclobenzaprine, muscle relaxants, throw in some of the fancier sleep meds we have, our statin drugs. So if our patients are on these, these are all things that actually alter the mitochondria. They are burdensome to the mitochondria, and they're still, believe it or not, and we know this for a fact to the say, an argument in the peer review literature, do statin drugs lower CO Q 10? And I don't care whether they do or not, I'm going to say, yes, they do. I'm going to assume guilty. But they say, oh no. Well, we don't know for sure that they lower CO Q 10, so because they're blocking from hm, a G, CoA, down to mevalonic acid, down to cholesterol, but like, I care, I'm just going to assume, why not? Because Ubiquinol and CO Q 10 is ubiquitous. It's essential for our body. So if there's even a question of it's not up to snuff, why not? And then we have our diabetic medicines. We know Metformin affects the first phase of the electron transport chain, and of course, has some wonderful, interesting off label drug uses as well. So you start seeing like, Okay, well, how do our patients come to us? They came to us through a journey. They come to our US and their state, but what got them to that broken state? And so sometimes it's looking back on what meds are on. Or I heard earlier from Carol about, well, what happens if they're using a birth control or a vaginal ring, or what got them to that point that is different than a way another woman came to a dysfunctional pelvic region. So let's move on to oxaloacetate. Oxaloacetate, we know as part of our citric acid cycle, once again, 7% of more than 7 million people around the world have developed long covid. If you were to believe that, once again, statistics are interesting, because it kind of make up anything, but it's like, well, let's even say some fraction like, like, oh my gosh, the need is tremendous. So symptoms common are, of course, fatigue, the brain fog, shortness of breath, post exertional malaise and autonomic dysfunction, including pots like symptoms. We've seen it all in our clinical practice. And if I've seen it for sure, you folks have seen it, it's like, okay, well, how do we help so oxalacidate enters the picture, and we look at the fact that, of course, we have oxaloacidate, we have acetyl CoA, and we know we go down to site trait. And of course, we also can say, well, we can feed into this pathway through pyruvate and we have pyruvate dehydrogenase, that means lipoic acid and NAD and so forth for the glucose side of things. We also, of course, could be feeding into the fatty acid oxidation side of things, or the protein side of things, into that lovely little citric acid cycle that spins off your electron transport chain. But does oxalate acetate have a function? Well, we know magnesium citrate. Does citrate so important for this citric acid cycle? We know for sleep, a lot of people use magnesium glycine, these little substrates, these little chelate agents, are important, but so they looked here at the oxaloacetate, acute key intermediary for the citric acid cycle, and it's gained attention therapeutically for enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis. You can also think PQQ. Could think other things, chlorine, hormone replacement therapy, restored NAD NADH balance and reduce neuro inflammation. I'm a big fan of something called Long Vita. Long VITA is a special requirement that has 65 times more area under the curve, a free curve in the bloodstream that actually goes into the

Speaker 2  1:03:51
brain and the brain circulation directly and avoids first pass in the liver. It's called Long Vita. It's a well studied, UCLA patented supplement, but it's performant. Clinical studies also show that stabilized, that's a critical thing, oxalacidate, it has to be stabilized, can significantly reduce both physical and mental fatigue while improving cognition and patient over the C chronic fatigue syndrome and the long covid And beyond that, it demonstrates antioxidant metabolic benefits, cellular stress, balancing out and mitigation, and helps with Val bio energetics of post viral syndromes. So we, once again, we're talking about covid. Well, what about EBV? What about CMV? What about herpes six? And you can even argue, well, take away the word virus, and when you say, Well, what about spirochete? Could this help a Lyme patient? I don't know. I'm extrapolating here, but it got me thinking, clinically, don't they have a lot of similar burdens, albeit different, but once again, if we take away our ICD 10 and CPT coding, what is going on with a body? It's been it's under attack, it's overwhelmed. The immune system is in a dysfunctional array, and there's an inflammatory cascade going on. So these are randomized control trials, and I can provide you the links to this at the end of our presentation, since we're in CME, about the actual research, so you can read it yourself. And they did 69 participants. They were randomized. They're either given 2000 milligrams per day of oxalic acetate or placebo for 42 days, and at 41 days, those taken oxalacidate said, Hey, I'm less fatigued. For the Default symptom questionnaire, the short form and total symptom burden was improved at 21 days. That's pretty quick for a person with Long Haul covid. And then oxaloacetate also significantly improved cognition reduce their long haul covid symptoms and help them with overall improvement. There's also another say we're going to talk about, about how it helped with rapid firing and quicker thinking as well. So in another study, they looked at oxaloacetate for mental and physical fatigue, myalgic encephalomyelitis, chronic fatigue syndrome, or long covid, non randomized control trial. And they did either 500 milligrams PID, 1000 milligrams PID, or or 1000 milligrams tid, and they found six weeks, very short for these kind of illness. I mean, if you could see anything move around. I mean, that's like that doing apparel that's very rapid, from my clinical experience, to see people starting to feel a difference. And they found fatigue reduction, dose dependent. 21% of people at 500 milligrams, bid, saw some improvements. 27% on 1000 milligrams, B ID, 33% at 1000 milligrams, tid, and so right around that six week mark, about 48% decline in their symptoms. But there's yet another study which is very compelling, which I'll share with you, which talks about rapid responders, strong responders, people that actually change that paradigm even more so, into like hey, this group were super responders. So doxyl acetate improvement and symptoms over 42 days. And once again, the trials this study is called regain but once again, I give you a link at the end where you can actually go and look at the whole study yourself, because I know you're, if you're like me, you're gonna want to read it in order to actually know, can I really believe that and repeat it? So then they looked at, once again, significant improvement on cognition. The OE, the AEO is oxaloacetate, and once again, showing the improvement in cognitive improvement and rapid thinking. And here they look at the group maintaining highly significant improvement, 25 to 35% over baseline fatigue throughout the study. And once again, the oxaloacetate over the placebo and my PhD. I'm thinking of a woman named Brenda. Brenda was finished her Master's as a mature learner. She was in her early 60s. She was getting her master's degree, and then she got wallet by covid, and she was not vaccinated, so she got wallet by covid, and now she has pots. She spent 10s of 1000s of dollars pursuing wellness outside of me because I was not having her re enter my practice. My practice is closed and but I've given her some advice along the way, including up so acetate and but she her whole life she wants to die. She actually says, Chris, I just want to go home. That's her, quote, unquote, or words from Brendan, it's totally ruined her life. So anything that can improve that has caught my attention. So I happen to have my oxaloacetate here, because covid has not been kind to me either. But the enhanced responders is what caught your attention. So if you look here at increased fatigue. Lots of people that have chronic fatigue of any sort, long haul, covid or whatnot, they have the ebbs and flows. They get some energy. If they spend their energy, they dip. They get some energy. They spend energy, they dip. There's a classical roller coaster. But then what happened was they were given oxaloacetate and enhanced responders had greater than 25% improvement in fatigue, so 40.5% of patients were enhanced responders. That's pretty good. So if you're not 40% you're going to have greater than 25% improvement. The average improvement for the enhanced responders was 63% like, okay, so is there a reason I spent $300 wholesale on a bottle of pills, yeah, and it's kind of interesting. It's not a sales pitch. I don't work for this company, okay? I happen to know this company and this product, because I use it for glioblastoma. It actually has orphan drug, says oxaloacetate for glioblastoma. So it's like, Hmm, so I happen to have a 30 year old patient, because I do a lot of outreach to the poor, and this 30 year old guy has a genetic condition that guarantees a recurrent cancer for the entirety of his life. He had a sarcoma earlier in his life. He has glioblastoma at 30, as a four year old daughter, which is tested if she had it see by the age of 30, be guaranteed breast cancer. That's how aggressive this autosomal dominant gene is. And so I've given him a lot of oxalacity. And so when I heard about this long haul covid stuff, I'm saying I gotta learn more about this, because I'm already using the product for brain cancer. Why not other things as well? So they look at the oxaloacetate, the AEO, and they saw, once again, the mean changes in reaction time. Once again, not only your brain fog, but you feel like you're in molasses in the middle of winter, like very slow, not really a rapid process. Or they saw tremendous improvement, a piece for 0.0056 once again. So not only are they less tired, but they're actually thinking a little bit more rapidly as well. And once again, I don't work for this company. There's no company mentioned here that is a medically approved food does not require prescription, but because it is a medical food requires medical oversight, like, Huh, no, figure. But now let's move to NAD. So I want to be respectful over your time, and I do talk quickly, so we're saving time here. So NAD, I'm not going to be a broken record on this. You've heard me pitch my love of NAD. NAD is necessary for over 500 enzymatic pathways. I can give the same passion to talk about magnesium, by the way, 600 enzyme pathways. Let's talk about NAD. This is critical for the mitochondria, which is consistent with our storyline today. And so NAD and its metabolites function as critical regulators. We know that physiologically helps with xenobiotics. And I'm now helping educate on a micro, new micro plastic test, which, if you want to know about, you can reach out to me, which actually quantifies how much micro plastic a person has in their saliva. And then there's a protocol to deal with that. I'm writing a PubMed article, commentary on microplastics and the physiological burden and testing, which I'm hopefully you'll have done in about a week and a half, assuming I take all my pills in the right array and can actually beat my insomnia. But we see overproduction, free radical damage from stress, damage to DNA. Of course, the activation of our parps and these enzymes consume a lot of NAD, but NAD levels, much like ATP, are dropping all things being equal with age, they found an exception to that people that walk more than 14,000 steps a day in their senior years don't have drops in their NAD. So the question is, is it there 14,000 steps that prevented and I don't there was no evidence in the research, one way or the other. So you walk 14,000 steps. Your NAD levels don't drop as you get old, or the NAD levels have a drop. So you can still walk 14,000 steps a day, I don't know. And but excess PARP active activation, or CD 38 which we'll chat about, causes, of course, a drop. It's just like a Hoover, vacuum cleaner being sucked in to this pathway.

Speaker 2  1:12:47
This is a study, and this is all I was allowed to share with you. It's a Harvard study. It's going to get published sometime in mid November here. But I was allowed to share this with you. It has to do with nicotine in my riboside and nitrogen, and you can read about the clinical trial that's not been released yet. So this is all I was able to share with you. And they looked at the randomized control, 58 people long covid. They gave 2000 milligrams per day of nitrogen. That's nicotine, my riboside. And of course, there's couple ways to get nitrogen or nicodemide riboside 10 to two or 20 weeks outcomes were measured, cognition, depression, sleep, quality. They saw a meaningful improvement. I have to be careful what I shared here, a meaningful improvement in the NAD serum levels. And they started seeing them trending. And of course, as we see in a lot of states, they say a larger study and let a follow up will need to be done to confer whether cognition and depression and sleep quality were dramatically improved or not. But there was a trending there, but it was an ad hoc commentary afterwards, and that's all I will say about it. It will come out in a couple of weeks, and if you drop me an email, I will gladly share it with you when it does come out. So But with that, it still comes back to regardless of that study. And there's another study out of Scandinavia talking about mindfulness and Long Haul covid too, and NAD levels that it's just getting published as well, or just got published. But the mitochondria dysfunction, key mediator to a lot of disease processes, potential overlap between symptoms along covid, of course, identified dysfunctional mitochondria and long covid. And you see, once again, lots of studies. 2024 2023 2025 all talking about, hey, this is going on. But they found that impaired mitochondria respiration and bioenergetics with peripheral blood mononuclear cells in this group. But how many other people have chronic inflammatory processes also have B, PB, MC dysfunction a lot. And so once again, you think about, where did we find NAD and not going to read these slides to you. Of course, the TCA cycle, prep cycle and NAD dependent enzymes, and what's going to CD 38 part of our immune system, regulating, calcium channeling, playing a critical role with T and B cells, leukocyte migration and inflammation. But as we get older, the CD 38 sequestering NAD cells start freaking up a little bit more, so we already are depleting it. So once again, why NAD levels drop with age? We don't know, but the research shows, as you can see here, effects of stress if we get psychological stress or physiological stress. And you can argue psychological stress is indirectly physiological stress. We're going to start sequestering NAD models, and we also will induce in our k1, and two conversion of nr into NAD through NMN within the cell, which is a whole nother conversation about what's our preference. We all have our favorite NAD delivery mechanisms and micro convince anybody anything, because it doesn't serve a purpose. And any place where I work, I'm an independent educator. I don't get I don't own anything. I just love learning, and I love sharing what I've learned. But you see here mitochondrial overload, your hyper metabolism, because there's in NAD faster. So there's a fire. You got more firemen and women going over there, they're going to be using more NAD, call it water, to quench the fire, the problems. And so we see that, of course, oxidative, genotoxic stress, and all these other aspects of things, causing a depletion of NAD levels. And we want to sustain this balance, and we have to look at sustained depletion causes a weakened redox. And of course, it causes oxidative damage. Our number one free radical generating aspect of any of our cells is our mitochondria. It's our blast furnaces, and so as a result, that's where 90% of our free radical damage occurs. So we start getting dysfunction or mitochondria, where it caused more oxidative stress, not only to the mitochondria, but to the cell and to us, the organism. And so once again, elevated CD 38 I give a whole lecture on autoimmunity and CD 38 and mitochondria, but not for today. And we see an inflammation and further acceleration in a deep decline with age and stress being sick, as you see with our patients. And many of us have experienced it. Feeling sick and tired. Being sick and tired is a stressor, I can tell you, the Brenda, the one that wants to die and go meet her maker as her quote, she quotes it. She says, I'm done. I want to be taken away, kind of like the commercial Calgon take me away, not to make fun of Brenda. And it's like, wow, she's done. She has had this long haul covid thing, spent 10s of $1,000 and she's not better, and she's afraid to start this because she's burned out. So here's our drop of NAD levels, all things being equal, and they say NAD levels decreased threefold by the time we reach young adulthood, another 2.5 fold by middle age. But now we throw on a physiological burden or a psychological burden, it's going to drop even more precipitously. That's just a dot, and we see our citric acid cycle. We see our lovely oxaloacetate. So we've talked about NAD. We talked about mitochondria. Every place there's a little blue star here is necessary to pass go and collect $200 you need NAD in the form of b3 but of course, that's NAD, and it's like, it's a precursor for NAD, and it's like, Okay, wow. So we thought we got oxaloacetate here too, and it becomes a rate limiting factor. So whether it be the oxaloacetate or supporting the NAD, or both, which is my approach, because I got my bottle of NAD precursor here too. And so we're going to talk about how, once again, we're affecting the sirtuin pathways and so forth. Now I'm going to spend time on this slide, but then we look at the mitochondria, sirtuins and rat adrenal glands, because, after all, that's how we start our talk on adrenals and adrenal fatigue. But once again, adrenal fatigue is merely a reflection of mitochondrial function, would be my argument. And they talk about sirtuins are NAD dependent class three, histone acetylase and an adrenal cortex, mitochondria are able to transform, via the NNT NAD into NADPH, to require for steroid or Genesis. Once again, how would we as male or female be without our sex hormones? First off, we wouldn't be here because mom and dad wouldn't have been able to come along and hat procreate us, and then we couldn't sustain ourselves. But they go on here to talk about in the results sir, two and three and five were expressed throughout the radar drill with the highest level of cert five. Once again, what you need, you need NAD for that. But once again, we need functional mitochondria, regardless of pulling out one active ingredient. And so we see with over the course of time, metabolic stress, cellular damage and alteration of our parts up regulation, further causing the NAD drop, further causing a mitochondrial dysfunction. And it's a vicious catch 22 we got to break the mitochondrial dysfunction, no different than a lecture I gave nine or 10 years ago, down in Las Vegas, at the a 4m conference I call the M and M lecture, the mitochondria the microbiome lecture, which will be another PubMed article I'm going to be writing, because now it's becoming out there that, hey, the mitochondria and the microbiome work together. Are we surprised? The answer is no. And once again, SARS cov two actually has been shown to have also altered the mitochondria, and is that another reason where we have 70% plus of our serotonin, 60% of our dopamine, vast majority of our immune systems on our gut. So was, did we get hit in multiple different ways by this SARS cov thing that happened? And answers probably so once again, we see search three, five are expressed throughout the rat adrenal. So we can summarize properly the human adrenal too. And once again, we look at the mitochondria. CERT five is primary mitochondria certificate involved in regulated biological activity of adrenals. Once again, certs require what NAD and, of course, lots of mitochondrial energy. And so we see here, once again, that role of things. Once again, I'm not going to read slides to read slides to you, but I will point out here, because this is a good point to point out to our patients, access to cholesterol, to these enzymes, is both rate limiting and the site of acute regulation via serogenic, acute regulatory protein, the star. That's actually what's allowing that cholesterol to turn into pregnancy, if we have a problem there are on the outer membrane of our mitochondria, or a multi component transducer, then we're going to have a lot of problems. You can see lots of references to this commentary,

Speaker 2  1:21:11
but look at our sirtuins. We know a lot about cert one. We know a fair amount about cert two, but then we got cert five, cert four, cert three, localization per 2011 article here, mitochondria, mitochondria, mitochondria, which is a take home for today. And we see, of course, in a D biosynthesis, we see this, sir, two and one. Once again, you think nucleus and cytoplasm of all, ourselves. And then we start seeing, okay, well, look what happens. We have hepatic CEOs, CEOs. Or, fatty liver inflammation, oxidative stress, all of these things are occurring because we're starting to have a shift in our sirtuins. We have to support that pathway. And just another article, but I actually did a very simple summary here. You folks had added three to 10 things. Of course, we got our precursor for NAD we've got our CO Q 10, or paraquila quinone. Creatine, of course, has regained its popularity. I remember doing radio shows back in the early 2000s we're talking about creatine for this, creatine for that. But now we're talking about creatine again for the mitochondria, adrenal support. And I argue when I do a CIRM draw, I do a DHEA DHA sulfate, pregnenolone. I want to know what those numbers are, because if they're low, you're telling me more about what's going on at a probably the mitochondrial level, let alone the steroid Genesis. No wonder we're not making a whole lot of downstream hormones. So I will go ahead and replace DHA and pregnenolone. But with my patient, with the pan pituitary removal, I diagnosed her with cushions disease. She's 83 years old now. 18 years ago, I diagnosed her with this problem. She was a Navy officer when Navy women were not Navy officers. She is very tenacious and love her to death. And they said, No, you're just his ironic. Okay, you're just a woman. They actually told her as much. I'm quoting her, not me. And so we found out she had Cushing's disease. She had a pituitary adenoma. She chose to have her pituitary scooped out through the nasal passages, and she went ahead and is now pan pit so 100% desmopressin, growth hormone, thyroid and hydrocortisone. But they endocrinologist never said anything about DHA, nothing about pregnant alone. But we saw that pregnant on DHA and mitochondrial function are critical for the adrenals, and she has no adrenal cortex function. But they have now shown in the peer review literature that even without pituitary driving, the adrenal medulla can still make norepinephrine, though adrenaline drops, norepinephrine does it? Plus, we know in the locus coeruleus we also do this. But when she recently had a high thyroid, so she's managed by me primarily, but she has endocrinologist at Oregon Health Science zero version of VA hospital, and she started feeling really warm and flustered. We found out that her thyroid was point two above on t4 because all that's all their major is t4 so she kind of felt that. So she was becoming a little sympathetically driven, a little hypertensive, and I was managing that with changing some of her meds around, prescription meds. And then let me do a peer review. Look. So when we increase thyroid, of course, we all know this, but I like, I like it. When I see it, it started increasing her cortisol clearance. Of course, it's going to increase every metabolism of everything in your body. So the various drugs she's taking, her metabolism was higher because her thyroid was higher. And I wish I had known at the time how where t4 to t3 conversion was, but that was an offer, so I was working off the t4 so I finished her hydrocortisone to compensate for her fact that her thyroid was burning her through, so she was Addisonian and driven by the higher thyroid and blowing through her other meds too quickly, including her listinopril, which has a 12.8 hour half life. I give or take them, and it's like so thyroid sped up everything. And because she doesn't have the internal capacity to compensate, I had to make do and compensate for her. And lo and behold, we did. So they remember how I mentioned how the mitochondria are sped up with thyroid, so her mitochondria, everything was going faster, so she was up bugs hitting the windshield faster, and her personality type. The reason she was a military officer back in the day when women were not military officers in the Navy was because she's a no take no prisoner kind of person. But now, all of a sudden, that drive of hers is driving her nuts, and it was feeding that hypertensive issues when, when 90s, over 120 when she was going to the doctor. And it's like they said, Oh well, it should balance out. Don't worry about a stroke. So NAD levels over training, once again, too much of a good thing. Immune stress, excess sun, of course, environmental factors, alcohol. If you want to see the state of science, after we're done with our CME, I will share with you where you see the state of science, and whether or not you like nicotinamide, riboside, or whether you have another way in which you like to float your NAD levels for your patients, doesn't matter. They actually have a review of of course, in our research, but Parkinsonian Alzheimer's, cardiovascular, athletic performance. So that's all available for free, for free through a portal, showing the research once again, done by that company. So once again, look at our mitochondria. And I have patients with a retinitis pigmentosa. It's mitochondrial in large part of genetic, of course, too kidney patients. I have a patient right now. He's stage four kidney failure. He's a multi millionaire, but he qualifies for disability and free everything because he's now disabled as a multi millionaire, but he also has mitochondrial issues, and he's the one with the 97 cholesterol and a testosterone of two. But once again, his pregnenal DHA levels are subpar. Can I treat those as long as I don't increase his testosterone? Question mark, because, once again, he's on an androgen deprivation program. And so these are, of course, things in the peer review literature. Once again, this article was mine at Indian r.com and we type in oxy acetate, it'll pop up. But the different things that they're proposing for long haul, covid, for spike proteins and some NAD support, oxaloacetate, sila Marin, of course, if you're familiar with zombie cells, that's the colloquial term, doing it three to four days a month of fight scene and other things to kind of clean out our zombie cells, our hyper senescent cells, which are like leeches or particles on the bottom of old wooden ship. So my approach minimize stress. Al, the name rhodiola, or now, or rather a Laura, lots of research on Aurora, by the way, just type Rolo into PubMed. Two or three nice articles come up if you're not already familiar with it. Sleep relax. Sleep apnea. Deal with your partner in a humane way that snores next to you. Avoid this. And Shin in yookoob and I put i pronounced the R last time I gave a webinar on forest bathing, a different lecture, and I went to the Japanese gardens here in Portland, which is known to be the best Japanese garden outside of Japan. And I happened to be a Japanese volunteer there. She says shiny and Yoko. And she didn't pronounce the art, which reminded me my office mate, which was Japanese, Nate, was going to name her child, Eileen there was not going to say I agree, because she doesn't do ours and go figure. So nitrogen, mitochondria support adaptogens, and I'm a big fan of this one, the fortune cookie here, hitting saved is a penny earned, and we need to ground ourselves. I got grounding that's all around me. I try to put my window get fresh air. Of course, I have filters, because indoor air pollution exceeds outdoor in pollution most of the time. Adrenal balancing and individualized nutrient testing. You already know that, but I will do a neurotransmitter test. I don't end all be all treat people and their brain chemistry. By this, I like to see what their neuro epi GABA levels. Kind of like to see a balance of things. Once again, I'm not going to put a lot of weight on just like never put a lot of weight on that hair analysis for balance out minerals, but to see kind of what the body is telling us. And so I'm going to open up for questions. My next slide is non seeing me, so I'm gonna leave it here.

Speaker 1  1:29:32
Questions. Okay. Anybody have any questions? Dr Nario, got anything online? Yes.

Speaker 3  1:29:40
Do you know, have anything on the chat or no? Want me to go actually? No. Okay, so, dr, Millis, thank you so much for that great presentation. I think one of the things that you brought up here is the one that kind of made us all curious, and even the questions shallow acetate, so that's really, I don't think it's new. I've been using it myself. I've been using it on patients, but this is something that they definitely wanted to kind of ask more about. So one of the questions here is, when you mentioned about that oxaloacetate is safe for a long term use, what typical clinical responses. Do you observe when you're using oxaloacetate? So you did mention that it kind of tickles the TCA cycle, so obviously, it's almost like an energy producing type of supplement.

Speaker 2  1:30:31
Yeah, it helps with the biogenesis. It helps sequester and deal with oxidative stress. And once again, I don't work for that company. I've just learned, as you folks have learned. So I am probably 12 weeks ahead of you folks, and I've used it as well, just like you have doc, but I haven't used it for chronic fatigue and Long Haul covid. So the only side effect I've noticed is about three to 5% people get headaches with it, and that's only downside I've seen with my patient base. But once again, I've only been using it for this particular application for a short period of time. The owner of the company, which is a research in a very gentle soul, is not promotional, but he's at every big conference, and I have on when we're not seeing me, I'll share with you his the contact information, where you can all read the research and come to your own conclusions, but the stabilized form is the proverbial cats meow, and they've came up with a higher dose, 500 milligram pill. So two pills, three times a day to and if you're a high responder, and you then all of a sudden, you're getting lots of even greater than a 25 to 35% right?

Speaker 3  1:31:39
So this is not a this is not a cheap supplement, if I may, tell everyone, because I also know the the one who makes it. I see them in in a for M conferences, and he is, this is a, I don't think it's a big company. So it is not, yeah, but the thing here is it brings a lot to the table. If you're talking about anti aging remedies here, and another good question here would be, so you also discuss NAD along with oxaloactive therapy. So from the sound of this, this is something that people can actually do together, as as you kind of emphasize. But is there such thing as overdoing. You're actually promoting NAD from radio formation with oxaloacetate already. Now you add your other supplement that adds more NAD. Is that the overkill? Or is that something that's pretty okay? The body modulates that on its own,

Speaker 2  1:32:35
and the moment we're not in CME, I have a slide that shows a testing methodology. There's two, three laboratories now measuring NAD levels, and that whole test. Don't guess approach to life. And so can we quantify? I rarely quantify NAD levels for a person at the start, but if I'm looking to see whether I've hit a threshold, because of course, we do an IV shot, an injection of precursor molecule, or NAD, for that matter. But let's say you use nicotinamide riboside injected, because it doesn't have some of the sequelae or side effects of NAD, terms of feeling like you're having a massive heart attack, as much as well as the other side effects and as much more rapidly delivered than NAD through NAD IV. But so I give the example of a clothesline. So if you're doing some sort of intravenous, or I am injection, or sub q injection, you're going to, you know, get a person's levels up higher, but the super physiological potentially, then it's going to dip like an old clothes line or telephone line. I will go ahead and supplement and then do oral in between, but the more dramatic, bullish dosings. But I like to then, at that juncture, somewhere, after a few weeks, measure NAD levels and say how we got them there, or their subpar or are they super physiological? Because they're, in my opinion, on anything, there's too much of a good thing. I mean, you know, I think one of my favorite lectures I used to give at our local medical school was, just because it's natural, doesn't make it safe if it has a power to be physiologically impactful, and so can also be a bullet in china shop. So I think there's wisdom there,

Speaker 3  1:34:07
right? Well, you brought that up, so that's actually a good point of discussion there, that not all supplements are actually good, especially if you're doing it too much. One thing that you would hear from oxaloacetate or even adding NAD in there, and you probably have answered this, and now we're talking about the synergy, or maybe specifically about oxaloacetate. So now we're talking about hypermetabolic conditions, and if we mentioned about producing more ATP and reviving the mitochondria. So what about hypermetabolic conditions such as cancer? Is oxaloacetate, another one of those controversial supplements like NAD when you use it, would you rev that up? Also, that's not you mentioned about glioblastoma a while ago. So that's actually something that's pretty curious when you when you mentioned that, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:34:53
actually. And once again, I don't speak for the company. I don't work for the company. I just happen as when I come across cool things, I share cool things. I met this gentleman fall 14 years ago at a conference, and I just started chatting with him because pleasant conversationalist. And then I just the glioblastoma, astrocytoma, the research orphan drug status, but there is it has an impact on the Warburg effect, and he can actually speak to that. I'm not going to speak to that because a we're being recorded and as a naturopathic doctor, and probably all of us, plus we're on college, so we're not allowed to talk about that C word. I get even the covid words kind of questionable, but the other C word is really questionable, at least for my line of

Speaker 3  1:35:37
work, right? Yeah. So anyway, yeah, but

Speaker 2  1:35:41
it might. I'll share a personal pearl. My sister, by two and a half, years younger than me, was diagnosed with inflammatory breast cancer February of 2022 here in Portland, Oregon. She was told to go on to hospice, because I've gone from one breast to another. So she was considered stage four, and that was back in the you know, February she happens. Her birthday is February 22 by the way, or February 2, Groundhog, say, of all things. And so she went down to MD Anderson, had a mastectomy, because they call it regional stage four, that allowed them to do what they needed to do or wanted to do, and she's still alive, but she's implementing oxaloacetate based on some research. Once again, the question is now NAD and there's a beautiful lecture series that just happened this weekend, all on cancer. It's called aamp ran by Dr Paul Anderson, if any of you know Dr Paul Anderson, and they were talking about the whole mitochondrial dysfunction. And do we, if we feed a aggressive cancer cell, I call it the pigs, because, like, you know, it takes up, you know, a PET scan, it's like, I'm going to take up all the sugar. But of course, we know their metabolic dynamic. Sometimes they'll go for glutamine. Sometimes they'll go other ways. Sometimes they'll say, Hey, give me all the Keto you want to give me. And so then if you have a check to gene mutation or Baraka one, which my sister has, both of those feeding against her, it's scavenging everything, because everything is fair game. So we're trying to balance out the Warburg. We're trying to balance that copper zinc ratios. She's still alive, and she's tenacious, is all get out, but she has a hemoglobin of seven right now. And you know, it's nip and tuck. Does she still have opportunity to get there? But she's using oxaloacetate as well, because we're trying to play around with a Warburg effect. Because her restrictive diet, she's done everything under the sun that any of us can imagine. She's done Eboo, she's done IV vitamin C, she's done art of medicine. She's done milk thistle. You off label drugs, and you know, she's willing to throw everything at it. So if anybody has any clinical, magical pearls, I know there's no claims, feel free to reach out to me, because I'm Big Brother, and that happens also play doctor some of the time. And I'm like, I just want to help. The poor thing is, her kids are a decade younger than mine, so they're 17 and 22 mine are 27 and 32 right? They need mom.

Speaker 3  1:38:11
I know well, she's in good hands. You kind of have all the gambits. And

Speaker 2  1:38:15
I'm open. I stay humble, and when I sit honestly, like I said, my favorite group to speak to is your group. You folks have been doing it. You're in the trenches, and I just whatever you folks might have to offer on game. Yeah, I'll help you off the off the record. Just say, Hey, Chris, random idea. Take it for what it's worth. No liability associated with you. That's how I that's how you may I give my sister advice. I'm not, I'm not telling you to tell your medical doctors either, just they might consider

Speaker 3  1:38:44
put your email on the chat. I'll send you some because I see cancer patients here in Reno, so I can definitely slip some through you. Okay, but yeah, I'm sorry to hear about that. That's really

Speaker 2  1:38:55
tragic, so, but that's how I addressed your oxaloacetate question in cancer. Yeah.

Speaker 3  1:38:59
And then one thing that actually caught my attention about oxaloacetate, but actually the initial studies about this in 2014 that they use it on C elegant worms, and they actually saw the lifespans of these worms increased by 25% when they actually were given oxaloacetate. Though they're not humans, as you can see, but again, I mean, what if it can actually transpire in if it's a human use, and you can get that as well, you we just don't know, right? But that's one of the curiosities that I have about it, and and again, even the studies. So I started to use this now with my patients, because the 2016 study about oxaloacetate, about their chronic fatigue, even though it was small, it actually they use 500 milligrams twice a day, and it improved energy and mental clarity for just six weeks. So according to your studies as well, that's basically, again, evidence based medicine at its best, that you can definitely give that to your patients, and you have those tools behind you. So, but, but again, oxaloacetate, I'm sure everybody's knew about this. It's not really, but let's spread the word, and now we're making noise about this. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:40:04
and once we're not on CME, I'll go to the last slide, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:40:09
Dr Naria, you got any more things questions for see at the CME?

Speaker 3  1:40:14
Folks, no, that's it. I think it's all about oxaloacetate. So you got the ruffles of the feathers going here with that topical

Speaker 2  1:40:22
acetate is what's really driving my conversation. NAD is an area in mitochondrial passion, but doxiloacetate just caught my attention and as a and I'll be a full disclosure as a gift to them for helping my patients in a very favorable fashion, or glioblastroma. So let me write you a few articles. I wrote Indian R I wrote Townsend letter. Wrote one for chiropractic economics, just all for free, not working for them, just to pass the word out there that if we can help one more person with one more tool that might make a difference in their life and their generational downline. Wonderful. So for those that want to see the research on NAD. Yes, it's nr biased and niogen bias, but it's a pro dot true, nitrogen.com when I say bias, it's talking about nr, but it's really NAD research. They've increased NAD levels, and they have neurocognitive so they have what's called the state of the science on that website, and they will, then you can run through that and look at just the data science, and then use whatever application you want to use to augment NAD they also have a home test for looking for NAD levels. Then the oxaloacetate CFS is a higher dose oxiloacidate, and that's what I have here. And there's a wholesale account, but

Speaker 3  1:41:42
this is not benejean. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:41:45
it's Ben and Jean. There's three or four different companies, from what I've been able to Google, but the oxilo estate CFS drives you to the high dose one. The benadine has a low dose ones. But it's the same company, right? Because it's the same same company as far I mean, I don't know what they're for. What their corporate structure is, but it's same goods, different dosage, but higher dose, much higher dose. These are 500 milligram pills. They're right. The beta gene is a lower just like 100 milligrams is a 500 milligrams per bill. I wonder, what is the cost of it? $300 a bottle of 90 pills and so but the nice thing about it is for two bottles for the long haul, covid patients, you'll know whether they're a responder or not. So unlike so many other things we do for this kind of intervention, like Brenda, the woman that now wants to die because she's so sick and tired of being sick and tired and spent her fortune trying to be well through methylene blue and IVs and this and that. Now she's so tired, she I actually offered her two free bottles. She says, I'm not sure that's how depressed she is at this structure, but within the two bottles, you'll know whether it works or not, according to the research.

Speaker 3  1:42:57
Are you saying that long covid. So if you say you're a long covid, you're gonna get a discount. Is

Speaker 2  1:43:04
that we said? Oh no, no, no. I know there's a wholesale account. I don't know of any discounts. I Yeah, but once again, Alan's a nice guy. Alan is the researcher, and he has some really nice videos out there too, that he's done. Gave a talk, okay, in Berlin. On, you know, Han Celia and all the vitamins. So yeah, but yeah, for what it's worth, but yeah, I don't know about a discount the wholesale account of code just to because you have to go through and register and all the stuff and you all of us have to do, but that gets you past the front gate. And once again, if you drop me an email on natural Med, man, I can also send you some of the articles. I've aggregated them from my PubMed searches, right?

Speaker 3  1:43:54
And then Jeanette, I think it mentions that nitrogen is on fullscript, but Jeanette, there is a higher dose. I don't think it's available in full script. Is it 1000 milligrams? Dr Miller, this

Speaker 2  1:44:04
milligrams, but it's deceptive. When I say deceptive, I don't mean deceptive in not no scruple way. But it says 1000 milligrams, but it takes two pills still to make the 1000 milligrams.

Speaker 3  1:44:18
Oh, sure, right, right. But right.

Speaker 2  1:44:22
It's cheaper, yeah, so it's cheaper. But lots of, lots of my patients are, well, I'm buying 1000 from your Chris, so I'm only taking one pill. No, it says, right there. Two pills offers 1000 milligrams. Oh, no. I thought one pill you could, like, you can only fit so much in a capsule. But so I it's not, they're not trying to be sneaky. I love the company. They're coming. I'm an independent educator for them, but, but people think it's 1000 million dollars per pill, like no still takes two pills to make it, but it's cheaper because you're buying in volume,

Speaker 3  1:44:49
but that's not available in fullscript. I think that's why I don't think so, right? You need to order directly to the company if you want to get that 1000, because it was mentioned in the chat that they're seeing in the chat that they're seeing in a full scale, but you only get 500 milligrams there

Speaker 2  1:45:04
Max, yeah, and 500 milligrams, 30 pills, whereas now you're buying, oh, yeah, yeah. And, and so once again, the glass bottle, this and that scale. So yeah, I buy the now that it's available for the last nine months or so, I buy the larger amount, because I'm my wife and I both take it daily.

Speaker 3  1:45:23
Dr Bill, I think that we got Dr Chris presenting for IV, and NAD, you're just talking about it a lot, so we probably need to put you on a spot here.

Speaker 2  1:45:34
Okay, I don't know who. I don't know which Doctor Chris, you're talking about.

Speaker 3  1:45:40
Well, yeah, you've been talking about the IV.

Speaker 2  1:45:44
Well, it's available IV. I'm not a big I farm out all my IV work. So when I graduated 1992 IV was not in our scope. And then you're looking at the friendliest Panzi arabita, in order to become certified. Post Graduation, for this, we had to poke in each other's arm and go fishing. A phlebotomist, I read them fishing in my arm. I don't mind sticking somebody else. I'll draw someone else's blood, no problem. But my arm. So I've never, I've never gotten certified. I just punt out. So if you asked me about osmolarity, osmolality, all this, I wouldn't know anything about it. I let the smarter people do that stuff. Well, you can still present. I can present. I'll be more than like, there you go. But just know that I have constraint of not a whole lot of practical knowledge. I know what to ask for, but that's about

Speaker 1  1:46:37
it. I don't have the new year up yet, but I have December 30 available.

Speaker 2  1:46:42
Okay, I only have 11 webinars between now and January,

Speaker 1  1:46:46
so you won't, so you won't, won't notice that there's a 12th stuck in there.

Speaker 2  1:46:50
So I think my wife might she hasn't seen a whole lot of me, unlike a presentation like this 20

Unknown Speaker  1:46:58
hours, maybe we can get her to present.

Speaker 2  1:47:01
She makes really good chocolate chip cookies. Oh, well, if nothing else, everybody will be well fed.

Speaker 1  1:47:07
Okay, okay. Well, anyway,

Speaker 2  1:47:12
but would I be game on doing that? I of course, I'm honored. I would love to also present on the microplastics, and I'm hoping that my two to 3000 word compilation will be out on PubMed sooner than later, and then I'll be able to turn that into a webinar.

Speaker 3  1:47:31
Well, that was a hanging fruit in your presentation. So now tell us about this microplastic saliva test that you just mentioned.

Speaker 2  1:47:37
Yeah, so there's a company which, once again, dropped me an email at natural bed man at hotmail. I've had that since 1990 and I don't want to take people's time too much, but the only reason I have that email is I was a 30 year old fellow. I was a dean at the nature path and university from the age of 30 to 37 dual figure. I was tapped by an interim president, which was a professional nun, to become the interim clinic Director and Chief Medical Officer of 500 students, 100 faculty. I said, heck, why not? What else am I doing with my life at 30? So I did that. But lo and behold, somehow, the board of directors of this, you know, oldest nature path to University in North America, here in Portland, said, You take a take charge of this guy. His name was Jim shore back at night in the mid 90s. He was worth $100 million and he says, Chris, I want to email you. I got a brick phone, right? Just give me a call anytime. I want to send you things, Chris. I said I got a fax. He said, You know, I've emailed you. He worked for the Carter Nixon administration, and he stood behind me like a father. He was 60 some years old. And he says, Chris, we're gonna create an email for you. So natural med man at hotmail seems antiquated, but it has a story related to Jim short, and that's why I have natural men. Man at hotmail still

Speaker 3  1:48:50
hot metal tails tells the aged of the email. I bet it's

Speaker 2  1:48:56
only because a 60 year old guy stood behind me at the time and he gave me two pearls of wisdom, don't do anything you want in a Washington Post, and nobody's going to care what's in your inbox when you're dead. Natural mad man. Natural med man at hotmail, it's in the chat as well. Natural mid man, so there's a company, and it's wish I had the email in my head. I don't, but I will find it and Dr Clearfield, if you provide me everybody's address, I'll email everybody. You will get it shortly. Okay, cool, but feel free everybody is welcome to email me also if you have any thoughts, prayers, my sister's name is Kiki. I mean, whatever I you know, we're a collective we all help one another. And likewise, if I can ever help one of you folks pro bono with a tough case or a question, after 33 years, I know what I know, and I know most of what I don't know. I don't I'll probably never know.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:53
So there you go. So there you go. Okay, well, Chris, we can't. Thank you enough as always, always insightful, always, you know right, right to the point and and useful information. So

Speaker 2  1:50:08
I'm humbled to speak to such a smart group, because I know you guys know 90 plus. I always try to be a provocateur. That's all I hope to do.

Speaker 1  1:50:18
Oh, well, you know we need that too. Thank you.

Speaker 2  1:50:22
I'll keep on being yourselves. I mean, you guys rock

Bill Clearfield  1:50:25
so much. Yeah, if we're not poking straws, we're and if you want, we'll be online for our conference. Oh, really. Okay, there's the there's the link right there. Congress of medical excellence.com. All of you that on here. Sign up now, before you sign off your computer from this program, because we need we need you. We need you in there. So is there access to these slides? I will either send you the contact, if you want to send them, Chris, or if you want to send them, you can put them on the on our on our website.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:00
Also, I'll send them to you after, right after this.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:05
And okay, every one of you, if you're if you're living in Maine, we can sign up online if you're living in the Northern California, Reno Las Vegas or and we have people coming from Florida. We got what we got one speakers coming from Medellin, Colombia, so you can get here.

Speaker 2  1:51:24
Yes, it is possible. Yeah. And

Bill Clearfield  1:51:27
yeah. And so 28 ama CME credits. If you're a homeopath, you get the homeopathic credits also. And what else? Doctor

Speaker 3  1:51:38
Mario, oh, they're not going to come. They're going to miss the band. They're

Unknown Speaker  1:51:42
going to miss the band. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:45
that's the highlight

Bill Clearfield  1:51:46
of the show. I'll find, I'll have to, you know what? I'll find it. You talk for talk for a minute. I'm going to go find a video clip of them. Okay, oh,

Speaker 3  1:51:55
sure. Okay. So, yeah, the speakers that we have actually are really there. It's really nice of them to contribute their time. Majority of this people are just there, really to just educate us, and we appreciate all their contributions to this. So if this is something that kind of I took it as a professional

Speaker 6  1:52:14
courtesy, and then did Cox get scared that email happens? The one we just looked at.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:20
Do you recall we're not seeing it. There was

Unknown Speaker  1:52:23
peace deal was made, and the hot snails were released. You know there?

Speaker 3  1:52:30
Okay, oh, alright. So anyway, yeah, so the the conference will be three days, and we're going to be starting with our apothecary group on Thursday, and then Friday, for our homeo, you it's not really homeopathy. There's some mix of everything there when you look at the schedule. And then lastly for I guess the ending day would be Saturday, that you would see integrative medicine all mixed up in there. And one thing that we have reached out to is a ketamine group here in Reno who actually is one of the pioneers, and they will be presenting their ketamine clinic here, and I did have been hearing good things about it. That's why I'm referring patients to them too. So that's also one of the highlights. And we have radon, right? Radon, lady, radon. So that's something interesting, because I've seen so many people here in Reno getting affected by radon, and you, you yourself, might be opened up to these realities with your patient base as well. So that's really something to look forward to.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:29
Heavy metal toxicity. We have little bit of cannabis there. Art and Science of homeopathic medicine, parasitic and infectious diseases, telomeres, hormone optimization, integrative dentistry, integrative veterinary ketamine and ozone also. Doctor Shallenberger.

Speaker 3  1:53:58
So for the dentistry part, that's actually a good thing to look at, because that's really a big key for our integrative practices. So you'll hear from one of the best here in Reno.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:08
Those of you that are don't feel left out, hopefully we're going to be able to plan it a little bit better next year. For next year, this was done in six weeks. I mean, this, this was a real rush job. So and again, the impetus was to get the the homeopathic physicians and practitioners the credits they need.

Speaker 3  1:54:31
Hey, this is rush. What more can we do if it's not, it's already a good lineup?

Bill Clearfield  1:54:36
Well, I mean, yeah, it's a good it's a good lineup, but usually it will between you and Kevin, our IT guy, you guys have made it a brief for me. I used to have to do all, everything you did and everything he did. I did myself, plus what I so. So I did it. I did it all. I used to call it, you know, our old group, the American Osteopathic Society of bill, because if Bill didn't bill it, it didn't get done. But actually have, I have some good help now.

Speaker 2  1:55:02
So, and then yellow highlight at the top, that's the website RS labs dot health, and there's a password to access the back end of it, which is 224466, but RS labs dot health is the microplastic testing and they also have a protocol they put together, but that's the lab that will quantify via a home saliva test your microplastics.

Speaker 3  1:55:29
Are you the only company that does this? Or there are other competitors out there?

Speaker 2  1:55:33
As far as I know, they're the only ones they have, North America, South America. I know the gentleman that's running this company. I'm currently not part of the company, but it is something which I want to be doing on myself, my wife, we used to drink out of the Sonic water bottles. And I want to deal with the the burdens of the actual micro plastic particles. So I'm not It's not measuring parabens, it's not measuring phthalates, it's actually measuring micro plastic particles come out totally. I

Speaker 3  1:56:05
was in I was in Europe, and this is one thing that they spoke about a lot. Micro plastic is very hard to remove from the body. One thing that they were promoting was actually plasmapheresis, or apheresis to do this. So that's how hard it is. So that's why detox everybody, not only yourself, but also your patients,

Speaker 2  1:56:21
oh, without a question, without a question. And actually interesting, when you give the gift of life of Red Cross Blood, sure, you're, you're getting rid of some of your toxins, and you're, Michael, I'm giving it to somebody else. Hey, you're, you're saving them from the immediate problem. But it is therapeutic for everybody involved. Plus you're getting some iron and oxidation. So, I mean, it's like, win, win, in a way.

Speaker 3  1:56:45
We're not going to tell them that. So it's all it's all good, yeah, and until

Speaker 2  1:56:49
you measure yourself, you don't really know how big your burden is. So donate, okay, but yeah, so RS labs, dot health, they just provided me about four days ago, the password to enter the back end as they're launching.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:05
I read, I read somewhere that if we did all of the counseling, all of the history, we're supposed to do all of the testing and all of the therapeutics, it would take 23 hours per patient in one session to do everything that we that we go over.

Speaker 2  1:57:22
I'm sure their insurance companies will have no problem filling that out. What do you think? Yeah, they'll cover that. Especially United Healthcare. They'll no problem at all. That's why they're like so much, hey. But their stock is doing really well.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:36
Well, that's what's important,

Speaker 2  1:57:38
not but okay, well, thank you all, and you I'm here to help drop me emails. I see some emails coming in, so don't be bashful. And if you ever have a tough case, I love helping on tough cases, so feel free. We're we're a collective, we're the difference. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:54
why is this oxaloacetate? I just looked it up and, you know, I just put clicked it on, and it said it was $500 for 90 pills. I mean,

Unknown Speaker  1:58:03
well, that's retail.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:06
I mean, they can't be selling that much of it, can they?

Speaker 2  1:58:09
I don't know, yeah, I just found the research compelling. And once again, I think well intentioned very small company, maybe we help them scale, and maybe then all of a sudden the price goes down, because, you know, scale. Know, scales up.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:23
I mean, you know, if they had insurance coverage for it, I guess I could see it. And I remember a few years ago, there was when Harvoni, which is a, you know, a medication for hepatitis C, hepatitis C, came out. And, you know, they were advertising on football games. And I looked it up, and it was $34,000 a month. That's why they can advertise. Time I looked at it, it was about $2,000 a month, but, but it was $34,000 a month. And I think the treatment was three months. Well, you know, I mean, if you price it that way, there's only one way to have get it paid for, right? You know, your average. You know Jane Doe here in Reno, I don't is going to have a tough time coming up with $500 a month for a bottle of pills.

Speaker 2  1:59:08
Here, my sister is paying $13,000 per Keytruda therapy for four therapies because insurance is regular fee out of pocket.

Speaker 3  1:59:18
Dr Chris, before you head off, there's some questions in the chat. I don't know if you saw it. Is there an issue in giving any ad to patients with anti HFR gene mutation?

Speaker 2  1:59:30
Not that I'm aware of it, because, once again, it's endogenous to us. So as long as you say physiological, probably not an issue. If you're super physiological, you're pushing a pathway. And when you kind of spoke to that, can you stack too many NAD, you know, physiological or biochemical impacts answers yet, but I start low, and much like I do with the CBD or THC, start low, go slow, see how they do. Just like if you have a person with mph polymorphism, whether it's a 670, 7t, or 1298, or some other variant, you can way overdo it, way too quick and over methylation is an issue, so I think start with the lower dose and see how they do. That's how I approach it, and if they start having weird symptoms. Today, I was counseling a person in Atlanta, and they took a blended Rhodiola Cordyceps and was it a lurkococcus? And the woman immediately started feeling panicky, headache and fretful. But if she had a catecholy methyl transferase polymorphism, rhodiola can actually impact this clmt, and could actually have contributed to all that. So, you know, it's like what we know is what we know. But you know, once again, like the Mao A and B on the mitochondria, they're not working properly in the, you know, runaway horse, so, but, yeah, I think slow is the way. I've never heard of a, you know, because it's like, is CO Q 10 dangerous? Well, co Q 10 looks like vitamin k1 so if you're on warfarin, cumin, and there might be an interaction there. But it's called Q 10, ubiquitous to our body, and dodges in ideas too. So it's just a matter of staying physiological, in my opinion, right? Why

Speaker 3  2:01:08
did David Sinclair use Metformin for longevity, according to Petronella? I mean,

Speaker 2  2:01:13
it has a lot off label uses for that, plus i as what? What baffles me, and maybe someone in the room knows, because it does impact the first step of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. One can argue it has a deleterious effect. We know upwards 50% because I use Metformin also become b 12 deficient. So Metformin is off label use also for cancers, is intriguing. If do we know the full mechanism, I don't know whether we really have delineated that. Does that one of

Speaker 3  2:01:44
the factors is NPK kinase activity also. So usage of energy, so in relation to the ATP production, I think that's one of the versatile, I guess, uses of metformin as well, and that has been seen to increase ATP cert genes also, but again, again, as you said, it's like a Swiss army knife. Of so many good things, but also it has some bad things as well.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:11
Yeah, so it's kind of hard to know.

Speaker 7  2:02:15
I have a quick question, Chris, if I could jump in. You brought up methylene blue, just briefly after your presentation, I'm curious if you appreciate its clinical utility, or when you think about it in cases of mitochondrial dysfunction and adrenal fatigue,

Speaker 2  2:02:29
so beyond when I bleach my genes by mistake and need to re blue them, I've actually played with methylene blue, and I've actually found it To be have nefarious effects. For me, it does impact some of the Mao pathways and so forth. I think it does have a clinical utilization. And of course, you all are familiar with the activating and with some near infrared lights as well, and so forth. But I think it has clinical application as to with cancer or whatnot or other therapeutics. For some people, I think it's going to work in some not going to work, and some not. I think that the dose, the magic is in the dose. That's what my perception is. And the peer review literature has became such so fattish on Instagram and social media, and people have turned their livers and brains on the blue hue. And of course, we can entertain ourselves with blue urine, but yeah, I don't know what's your take on it,

Speaker 7  2:03:22
Doc, you know, I saw one case respond to it pretty drastically with fatigue and chronic joint pain, likely related to Lyme disease. I haven't used it a lot, you know, I haven't been very impressed. So far, I've been kind of doing like a half milligram per kilogram divided by D, and not seeing a whole lot so far, but I don't have a lot of experience.

Speaker 2  2:03:44
Yeah. I mean, for me in my line of work, and my philosophy as an integrative doctor is, I give the example of all of us in the room or walking around race track, a running track, you know, if there's hurdles there, and if your lane had the hurdle in it, you're not going to see the same, you know, pace and speed as if I was walking in lane without the hurdle. So I think there's just so much to the nuances of how people got broken, how they got here, and what their unique hurdles are, that methylene blue might be enough to push over the hurdle so you can walk more quickly or not. Simple word analogy, but that's kind of my take on why does it work for some and not others? For me, I didn't feel so good. I have a guy named Tom. He's 62 years old. He has chronic fatigue. Was on disability, got back to work after some therapies we were doing. But he loves his methylene blue. He's taking it. For me, I started feeling fuzzy in the head and vibratory. But my wife, it's not

Speaker 7  2:04:38
it's not as simple as like, Oh, it doesn't really matter what's causing the mitochondrial dysfunction. Throw methylene blue at it and it'll, you know, make it all better in a band aid approach.

Speaker 2  2:04:47
Yeah. I mean, that's my always. My concern is, especially when we're working so fundamental at such a sub cellular level, it's like, you know, do we open up a Pandora's box, and if there's something really wrong, you can have the next step, there was a hot potato. Is that a hot potato? Now, from a physiological, biochemical perspective,

Speaker 7  2:05:06
it's only too much. Too much mitochondrial activity is not good either. Yep.

Speaker 2  2:05:10
No, no, that's my take. But I'm mostly, I mean, I will I open up to the platform of everybody?

Speaker 7  2:05:16
Thank you. It was a great presentation tonight. I really appreciate it. You're kind

Bill Clearfield  2:05:24
okay. Okay, anybody else, any comments or questions? Comment about activated charcoal prolongs life by 25%

Speaker 8  2:05:35
Oh, yeah. I read somewhere that activated charcoal also, it's very good to prolong life, because I just heard that oxaloacetate prolongs the life of worms. So, yeah, I it was somewhere on the internet. I read about activated charcoal. If you know. Dr Nixon, he's looking at the blood, and he says that it cleans the blood like it's very good for and Dr groove, he says that it helps for patients with chronic kidney disease to prevent hemodialysis. If they are on activated charcoal, it absorbs the toxins so they won't progress that fast to and slows down their progression to

Speaker 2  2:06:43
part of mine was part of my routine, I agree, and of course, don't. One problem is if it will bind up anything else you take with it, so you have to base your drugs and other supplements accordingly. But if that, and of course, humic and fulvic acid, anything that helps bind and sequester things so we don't recycle it or what? 90% of all our liquid moisture in our calling gets reabsorbed clean whatever is traveling along inside it. So bind it, eliminate it, and put an exclamation mark. And the radon, I think, is a brilliant addition to your folks' presentations. 70,000 people die of lung cancer from radon in the United States alone. And that's a probably a late even it's worse than that, but your home might be radon rich and a neighbor next to you, not at all, because it's all about those what's happening underneath your home. So, yeah, radon got a test for it. Every home we move into, we radon tested. It's well worth it. Okay?

Speaker 8  2:07:41
And I remember now at another lecture, we had anti factor. It's also it can be maybe paired with oxaloacetate to improve the mitochondria. And I know also they have now some peptides, mot much mots, much peptides. They are good for mitochondria.

Speaker 2  2:08:06
Mitochondria microbiome, thumbs up. Can't go wrong. I don't think we do judiciously. Okay, supposedly, oral health, if you have the wrong bacteria your mouth, you increase your chance of pancreatic cancer. Go figure. Sometimes Sometimes we won't sleep at night, and with what we know, it's like, oh my goodness. So okay, thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Blessings

Bill Clearfield  2:08:29
everybody, okay. Thank you so much. Doctor Chris. Next week we have Doctor Joni Collins is going to be, I think, speaking about some esthetics. So a little something, a little bit a little bit different, little bit lighter. So, but awesome. Thank you, good to know. So, okay, once more, while you're those of you still on, go right to the website. It's right. Here's the link, and go right to the right hand side and register right. Now. Don't even think about it, right? Doctor Gerber, yes, you're muted. Yes, indeedy. And those, those of you who think the the price is a little bit too steep, let me tell you, you're getting fed night and day there. So you're, we're, we're going to, we're going to, going to, going to make it so that make it well worth your while. So keep so we want you all there. And if you can't make it, make it online. And we need to, we need to have you. You know, give us. Give us the the attaboys that we deserve. Okay, at least Dr narrow deserves anyway. Well, if they don't come. We'll send Joel over there. Yeah, we're going to, we're going to send Joel out to break your legs. And I don't care if you live in Cleveland, Ohio, we're going to, we're coming to get you Okay, or wherever it is you are, Adam, I know you're in Ohio somewhere. So, okay, alright. Anybody have any comments or questions? I'm working on it. Okay, anybody any any comments or questions about anything? So it's Doctor Quinn, not here tonight. I know he's not there. He's not here. How about Doctor Doctor Tanno? Is he around? I'm not sure. Doctor Tanno is, at least he's his name is on here, so get some enlightenment on the on the research group. So, but I don't know if he just turns it on and then leaves, I'm not sure here. So Dr Tano, if you're there, check in. So Okay, maybe not. Never mind. So anybody else have any comments or questions, or, what about the Filipino folks we can do? We get them? Yeah,

Speaker 3  2:10:49
I'm going to put some ads in there for them too. So for sure, they're going to be online. We're

Bill Clearfield  2:10:53
like, we're like, six weeks away, five weeks away. So don't, don't, you know, like, let's, let's get moving.

Speaker 9  2:10:59
Here. Get moving. Hey, Bill one, got one question for you. Bill, if my spouse attends with me, is there a on the application? Is there a fee?

Bill Clearfield  2:11:08
There's a discount one for the spouse? All right, thanks. Okay, and if you're nice to us, we'll, we will. We might even discount it even more.

Speaker 3  2:11:17
They'll get a free dance lesson from Dr. Bill,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:20
yeah, if you got, if it doesn't work out, I did this once before, I was doing an acupuncture class conference with a with a with a licensed acupuncturist, and they're, they're taught different than we are, and we were kind of not getting along, doing too so well. So during the breaks, I actually taught them all tango lessons. So

Unknown Speaker  2:11:40
the I was kidding, but okay, oh

Bill Clearfield  2:11:43
no, no, I actually, this is done. There should be one for lay people. Okay, so I think about 150 bucks for lay people. So Alright, so

Unknown Speaker  2:11:56
let's look

Bill Clearfield  2:11:59
for the people the Yeah, so we did it. We did it. So when we when we got the evaluations, they said, well, the conference wasn't so great, but at least I now had learned the basics in tango, so it wasn't total waste. We could teach you that if you don't like tango, you know, we can do that. We can do Latin dances here. We can do foxtrot. We can do waltz, anything you want. I can pretty much do em all. So, right, so I told you very good. I told you that story, right? How? That's how that happened. It was the the matrimonial litigation. Years were over. After seven and a half, the kids grew up and moved away, the dog died, and, you know, it working all day, and that it kind of had nothing to do. We got an echo there, doctor. So, so Chili's had opened in Wilkes Barre, where I lived in the there were no, no Latino people there that I knew of at least, and I even know if there is any now and but Chili's open, and when you sat down there, the first thing they gave you was chips and salsa at you know, you didn't have to pay for it. Then I think you have to pay for it. Now, I don't know. I haven't been in the Chili's in years, and I saw an ad in the newspaper just that long ago was I was reading a newspaper, and so I had in the newspaper for a salsa lesson. So I figured I was going to learn how to cook. I looked up all the ingredients. I got them all together. It was $5 in advance on a credit card, and it was at a department. It was at a department store, like a demo. And when I get there, the gal says, Oh no, this is a dance lesson. This isn't a cooking lesson. She said, I'll give you your money back. And I said, No, let's dance and and I liked it, I said. She says, I have a we have a dance school. We have a dance on Friday night. So I go over there, and I'm sitting there watching these people flying around together, and I had no idea what the hell they were doing, but I say, this looks pretty cool. And then these two guys, the place was on a second floor, like a main street, but on the second floor, and there was no elevator. You had to walk up it. And it was there a little while. And these two guys, each one of them, weighed at 350 pounds, and they were huffing and puffing. It had come up the steps, and they didn't look like they can get from from the doorway to sit down, and these guys were so smooth and so slick. Every every female in the place was lined up to dance with them. I said, I'm going to learn how to do this. So that was in 2006 and one of these days I'm going to be able to learn, I'm going to be able to dance. So that's how it all started. That's how it started. Yeah, so let's see. We got three more. The website doesn't work. The Congress of medical excellence.com that should,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:47
yeah, I'm checking it now.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:50
I pulled it up.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:53
I think she's talking about trying to register.

Speaker 8  2:14:55
Yeah, it opened. It opened a window where I put my name, my address. If

Bill Clearfield  2:15:02
you hit register now it should take you to let me.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:07
I hit there and I hit this,

Bill Clearfield  2:15:10
let me share it. Alright. So, so let's, let's start again. Okay, so when you hit the the link in the in the chat, it'll take you to the home page, which is here,

Speaker 8  2:15:23
yes, okay, I go register now. And then I go to

Speaker 1  2:15:28
if you go to register now,

Speaker 8  2:15:31
including homeopathic medical doctors, I mean person and here. And then I add one here, add to cart, and then it opens this page registration. But after I put everything, I do not know how to move from this page further, because let's see this page doesn't happen next does it?

Speaker 1  2:15:57
Hold it up? I'm getting you and not and not that, not the, not the link here. I don't know why. All right, let's stop share. I stop share. You know, we'll start share again.

Speaker 3  2:16:09
Maybe, is it your browser? Petronella, are you opening it in in Chrome?

Speaker 8  2:16:14
Or, Oh, maybe, maybe I'm on dark, dark.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:18
Okay, you should, you should Okay, so get to here, go to register. Now, which one are you?

Unknown Speaker  2:16:27
I'm on that Doc.

Speaker 3  2:16:29
Go, oh no, that one physician, oh physician,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:33
homeopathic medical doctor, same in person.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:36
Okay, so you hit here, and you should be able to add to cart your name and put in your info. And it should be go with you. Can't get past this?

Speaker 8  2:16:47
No, I think at the end down I see the doc for, I think it's, I have to go on Google. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:56
it's probably your browser 62

Speaker 1  2:17:00
add the cart page. Did you get to this page here? The registration?

Speaker 8  2:17:04
Yes, and I fill this up. Have the option to move next to put my credit card. I don't have the option. I cannot pull this up because it's stuck.

Speaker 1  2:17:15
You get here, there's my credit card right there. No,

Speaker 8  2:17:19
I didn't get there. I couldn't get there, but probably

Bill Clearfield  2:17:22
we'll check with our guy to see maybe Duck Duck Go is a problem. I don't know, but yeah, okay, try it on.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:30
I'll try on Google. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  2:17:32
because, because we're good here. Okay, all right, the rest of you, you're signing up, or else. I said we're going to send Joel after you. You don't want that.

Speaker 1  2:17:47
Okay, yes, ready? Okay, I think, I think we're good here. Anything else? Dr Nario,

Speaker 3  2:17:54
Nope, we're just excited to see everybody join us online or

Bill Clearfield  2:17:58
live online. You got any You got any other conferences coming up? Are you still have you recovered from Vienna?

Speaker 3  2:18:05
Next one is a frame. I'm going to be lecturing in module five. So that's going to be my next one and our event. So it's like a back to back hour

Bill Clearfield  2:18:14
event. Yes, we have. I will be at the ammg, December or November, 12 to 16th. You've all seen what I'm what you've actually all seen my lecture already. We're doing, I'm doing the laboratory of this in part one. So, so and we had Dr Pam Smith was here. You missed it last Wednesday. Oh yeah. She said the gold standard now for hormone optimization, the saliva test

Speaker 3  2:18:44
always, always, always, I'm not surprised.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:50
Yep, not surprised. Okay, alright, everybody, thank you so much. And please, please try to be with us. You know it's, it's, it's, it'll be an event. It always is

Speaker 3  2:19:01
gonna be fun. Yep, yep,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:05
it will be fun. You know, we've had near fist fights between regenerative medicine doctors at one of our things. We've had murder mysteries. We've done it

Unknown Speaker  2:19:14
all. I don't want the fist fights that's not scary

Speaker 1  2:19:18
between them. They didn't start. They were getting a little bit,

Speaker 3  2:19:25
Okay. Fun to see everybody live talk to you in person not just virtually shake hands, spat at chat in the back so it's going to be a good one,

Speaker 1  2:19:33
it should be great. Okay, thank you all. Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai