Unknown Speaker  00:00
Don't focus

Unknown Speaker  01:10
Hello.

Unknown Speaker  01:18
Hi, Kelly, how are you

Unknown Speaker  01:19
good? How are you

Bill Clearfield  01:21
I want to kind of a phone call here. I'm going to be on mute for a few minutes. Just hang out. Okay, good,

Unknown Speaker  01:26
I can do that. I

Unknown Speaker  03:35
Dr Clearfield,

Unknown Speaker  03:41
hello,

Bill Clearfield  04:00
I'm sorry about that. Have had a I got some legal issues, so, which is always fun. So thank you for being with us. I really appreciate it. Sharon, of course, forgot about us, so she's she had something else to do. So I, like I said, I really appreciate you sort of jumping in in the last minute, and you're going to find you're going to like our group. They're, they're, you know, very integrative. They think outside the box. And we have, we usually have a really good time. We usually get anywhere from 40 to 80, depending on the weather, the you know, the the time of the year. You know, anything else that's going on. And, you know, sometimes the speakers, I noticed was last minute for you, you know, and bring bring their own folks, folks on to when we're done, I'll send you the email list, the email for everybody that was on and if you have any courses or I noticed yet on your website, you did, I don't. If you have any books or anything any offerings, you're free to to contact them. I'll send you the video. I don't edit it. I just, you know, we just record it, and we will send that to you also, and you can do with it what you want. We are eligible for two ama CME credits, which means if we can refrain from brand names and companies, then, then we're good to go. Okay, if everything you present is, you know, a certain brand, then we, basically, what we do is we just don't buy, I don't bother, you know, submitting it. Yeah, no, I think we should be good there. So, so if we're good to go fine, and if we're not, that's fine also, okay. We've been doing this since 2020 and I have endless Tuesdays to fill up. So, so you'll find most of our speakers are pretty good. And we have, we have, you know, really top notch ones. I mean, if you'll go to, you know, a for M or ammg, or, you know, we get, get the superstars we've had, I don't know if you know any of these folks, Pam Smith, we've had on listen to that one. We've had James Lavelle. We've had Jacob title bomb. We've had Peter McCulloch. You know, if push comes to shove and I have nobody or we have a drop out at the last minute. Dr Houseman Cohen, and we can't find somebody, then they end up having to listen to me. So, so I don't wish that on anybody.

Speaker 1  06:56
Oh, I've listened to some of your lectures, and they've been great.

Speaker 2  06:59
So good. Dr Clearfield, yes, I was wondering. It's Harlan Billy calling. I had submitted some suggestions for speakers. I don't know if you ever received it or not.

Speaker 3  07:12
I don't, it doesn't, it doesn't fail. Well,

Speaker 2  07:16
Sterling Hill is a phenomenal genetics expert. She can look at 58 pages of genes and tell you what you need to do. Sterling Hill. And then, the woman, she's from body bio she was Ed, Ed canes, wife, and she's a phenomenal lecturer on fatty acids.

Bill Clearfield  07:50
Uh oh. Stephanie van, somebody or other.

Unknown Speaker  07:54
Well, Roberta Kane, I think,

Speaker 3  07:57
okay, not, not, not fatty 15. Is that the one you're talking about?

Unknown Speaker  08:01
No, from bodybio.com, they started the company.

Unknown Speaker  08:07
Oh, body bio, yeah, we use that.

Unknown Speaker  08:09
Okay, all right, I just wanted to let you know

Speaker 3  08:13
I'll look, I'll look again to see if, if you know, and

Speaker 2  08:16
if you need me to make an introduction, I'm happy to do so absolutely.

Bill Clearfield  08:21
Okay, like I've told our our young speaker tonight, I have endless Tuesdays to fill up. So got it so, thank you. Thank you so, so. Dr narrow, how we doing?

Speaker 4  08:37
We're doing good. I think we're closing it up. I think you still have that one spot left, or that's going to grateful gardens.

Bill Clearfield  08:46
I'm not sure we. Jennifer Baker gave us money today. We did? We have her one already? Did? We have

Speaker 4  08:52
no No, she's not. So she's going to take the morning spot. Yeah. Okay, so now at least we have excess sponsors. I mean, that's good to play around with, right? So, yeah, just decide where you want to put grateful gardens.

Bill Clearfield  09:08
Then maybe they could, like, could they? Could they do like, Thursday after the speakers are done, and, you know, just at least give some give, give them something to eat. You know, I didn't really plan anything. You know, the Midtown wine bar is not too far away. We could get a couple of folks to take some of them over there. Well, it's dark and it's December, you know, we don't want them walking on Virginia street.

Speaker 4  09:33
You know, it's on a Thursday. Is that we want the speakers to kind of Huddle up? So we're saying,

Speaker 3  09:39
Yeah, we can do that. I could probably get, if he's if he's not booked. I could probably get Chris Costa to play for a while.

Unknown Speaker  09:48
It's up to you. Yeah. I mean, remember Thursdays.

Bill Clearfield  09:51
Can we? Can we get the room after, afterwards to after the after the conference?

Speaker 4  09:57
I have to ask, we haven't, why don't we

Bill Clearfield  10:01
that we're working on the swag bag and what else? Oh, oh, I think almost all of our Thursday speakers have decided that they're not coming. And, yeah, you know, I want to choke them.

Speaker 4  10:20
No, no, no, um. Dr Tanno is coming. That's it all, yeah, but we have a back I spoke to the to Dr Quinn, so at least, yeah, yeah, we're gonna, I had a, I have a plan for that, because I have other speakers on the wings, who wants to do it.

Bill Clearfield  10:39
I can get other speakers also, but, you know, I mean, these guys, you know, they wanted this that's holding the bag.

Speaker 4  10:46
Well, what we can do is we can compress them, and then,

Bill Clearfield  10:50
I mean, I don't, I don't want, I don't want zoom lectures. I mean, what, you know, you're gonna have people coming through all the way to Reno for from Louisiana and Florida and that for a zoom lecture. I mean, what the hell? What the hell is that?

Unknown Speaker  11:04
Right? So maybe what we can all

Bill Clearfield  11:06
morning of zoom, I mean, Adams coming from, from from Cleveland, Ohio, or wherever it

Speaker 4  11:11
in higher we don't want to disappoint Adam. We can't. We can't disappoint Adam's our main guy.

Bill Clearfield  11:19
So what we're talking about Kelly is we put together an impromptu conference in Reno here December 4 to six, which is only two weeks away. Hey, did you like the way I got that counter on there? A countdown thing? I didn't think I knew how to do that myself, but I got it on there. Did you see it? It was on the email? No, I didn't see that. It's been on the last two weeks. I see nobody looks at it, right?

Speaker 4  11:41
I like what they did see the CME five, you removed Reno, little, biggest

Unknown Speaker  11:49
city is Dr shellin Berger still.

Speaker 3  11:53
Yeah, he's on All right, so here's, well, here's our, here's our.

Speaker 5  11:57
I, if necessary, I I might have a part of a PowerPoint that I can download on

Unknown Speaker  12:04
this is that's cool.

Speaker 5  12:10
Anyways, what I have is the slides that I was telling you about for ozone and div and you won't get an embolus, and it's not very long, but, but I'd want to tell him first that I have this because I don't want to, you know,

Speaker 3  12:26
inflame the man. Yeah, no, no, he's, he's coming.

Unknown Speaker  12:31
You want to present that? Adam

Speaker 5  12:35
Thursday, after I, after I tell him, you know, I don't want to, you know, incite an argument with

Speaker 3  12:41
him. No, you're not going to get an argument with him. Well, he's,

Unknown Speaker  12:44
he's emphatic that, you know, div is the kiss of death.

Unknown Speaker  12:50
Well, it's healthy banter, I'm sure. Well,

Speaker 5  12:54
if I put this on a flash drive, I would need someone to be able to upload it to whatever I would use. We

Bill Clearfield  13:00
have, we have, you know it, you know what? If you could send it to us ahead of time, we'll have it ready for you. If you have it done already.

Unknown Speaker  13:09
Well, it's, it's not a whole lot, but I

Bill Clearfield  13:11
can, oh, that's okay, whatever it is. The first conference I ran, we, I we almost had a fist fight. So you know, Dr farshian, if you know who he is the Yeah, the stem cell guy in Florida. He came, He came, you know, we had it at the pepper mill. He came and gave a talk on, you know, stem cells in the afternoon. Dan royal also gave a talk on, on stem cells. And he, he had a throwaway line in there about that his outfit was not at some fly by night stem cell clinic in Miami. Oh boy. Let me tell you, the two of them were going at it pretty good. I had to get between them, and we had a surprise visit from somebody at the AOA, from the education department at the same time. Instead, I was trying to hold it. Betty, so, so that was that was fun.

Speaker 5  14:07
So Adam, bring gloves. Yeah, yeah, I'll bring a syringe. Bring boxes.

Bill Clearfield  14:15
Okay, okay, everybody, it's a little bit after five. We are two weeks and two days away from the Congress of medical excellence. 5.0 or like, like to call it the biggest little conference in the universe. You, you've all wanted this if you can't make it to Reno, it is online, and it is quite reasonable. 20. Ama, CME, credits, category one you heard we're having a little kerfuffle with the agenda because a lot of our speakers, other than Dr Tano here, are not going to be in house. Dr shalenburger will be here. Dr mcelhasa will be here. That's the first day. Dr Sweden will not be in house either, but I am going to cut her a little bit of slack. I think she's quite worth it. The second day is all homeopathy, and day three is integrative, integrative medicine. So like I said, 20 ama CME credits is a smaller venue. It's not not a big hotel. It's smoke free. It's not a casino for Dr Dr Burgess just not coming. And we have a special room rate. We have entertainment planned on Thursday night. We're still kicking around rather. Sorry, Friday night, kicking around Thursday night. We have breakfast sponsors. Every morning we have lunch sponsors. Every morning we have the one dinner we we've always had a good time. We've always learned a lot. I learned a couple. I was at AMG last weekend, and I actually came up with, came out with some some new information on autoimmune disease and some remedy protocols that I'll share with you over the next few weeks. And, and, you know, this is something that that a lot, a lot of us have have been, you know, sort of clamoring for. I understand that it was kind of sudden. I mean, we really didn't get going with this until, you know, after the beginning of September. So if you can't make it, it's online. If you're a physician, online, it's 595 if you're a, you know, healthcare provider, it's as low as 199 for some so for three days. I mean, you can't beat that in house, 695 for physicians. So I think it's 395 for the other healthcare providers we're providing. I think it's 295 for for the homeopaths. I mean, we're providing you with a lot of stuff, a lot of stuff and and we really need your support. We also need you to take if you, if you haven't gotten it, let me know, or doctor Dario know, we need you to send out to your email lists, and even lay people, but your colleagues, please send out information so that that we kind of spread the word. And if you think it doesn't matter, it does. I mean we, we have sign ups from Louisiana, from Florida, from from we have people coming from New Jersey and Ontario, Canada and Minnesota, other than Dr Benoit. So the you know, so the word is out, but we need more. We need more, especially in house. So please, please, please, please, try to be there. If you can't be there. Please sign up online. And if you need, especially if you need CME credits by the end of the year. And you know, and please support us. Well, you know, we've been doing these webinars for free for five years now. And you know, and aosrd and aos i am, have foot the bill for the, you know, the electronics and whatnot. And there's, there's other expenses, there's accounting expenses. We've had no revenue for three years since our, you know, our can't being canceled from the AOA. So this is our, this is our chance to come back and to really shine next year, we're planning on a much bigger event. We'll have a lot more time to plan it. We're going to start planning it. As soon as this one is done, it'll be a lot more complete. But I think you'll be pleased with the program and and you know, those of you are here every week, we really need your your support. So with that Congress of medical excellence.com. And this is 5.0 because we've run four other ones. So this is the fifth here are some of your speakers here. And you know, some of them have been on with us. You know, a lot of them have been on with us. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Dr Nario for our tip of the week.

Speaker 4  19:05
Okay, alright. So I think I'll just continue with I had bad internet connection, I don't know, because we're not paying but now we got it all done, and I have a good connection. So let's I'm just going to refresh the last one that I was trying to deliver last week. So let me talk about GMO here. So let's be food based now. And this is a request from one of our viewers who sent me an email. So when we talk about GMOs in the US, we're talking about a handful of crops that have quietly taken over the entire food system, and the when the main reason they exist isn't is because of nutrition or health. It's mostly convenience for large scale farming and chemical companies. But let's go through the big ones, soybeans. Almost we all know this. Almost all soy in the US is GMO. Most lead to survive being sprayed with herbicides, and because soy ends up in everything from protein bars to crackers to restaurant oils, you're basically eating soy, unless you live off the land. The concern here isn't the genetics, it's the herbicide load writing along with it. So corn, again, we know that already, especially field corn, GMO corn, shows up in corn syrup, corn starch, corn oil. It's in sodas, bread, sauces and snacks. It has a barcode. It definitely has probably GMO corn in it. And again, the issue is the chemical system, herbicide tolerance, mono cropping, soil depletion, and lovely rise of glyphosate resistant super weeds, canola oil, another famous one. You probably know this as well, designed to survive heavy herbicide use, and because almost every restaurant uses canola oil like it's oxygen, we're all getting a steady drip of refined seed oils plus whatever residues comes with them. So nobody's body asks for that combo. So now here's the one that kind of appealed me, or most people kind of miss sugar beets. About 95% of them are GMO and most of the granulated sugar in processed foods comes from them. If the label just says sugar, it usually is GMO beet a sugar, unless it's specifically saying cane. And this crop is another herbicide tolerant system, which means more chemicals in the field and potentially in the final product. Now let's clear up something patients always confuse about. Sugar beets and beetroot, nitric oxide supplements are not the same thing. Sugar beets are grown from volume. They're GMO, they're sprayed, they're processed down until nothing beet like is left, except sucrose beetroot. Beetroot supplements comes from red beet varieties, these are non GMO grown from nutrient density and actually retain nitrates, antioxidants, better lands and polyphenols. So the GMO concern in sugar beets do not apply to beet supplements. So completely different worlds that we're discussing here and a couple of other GMOs worth knowing about papaya. So Hawaiian papaya was genetically engineered to save crop from that crop from a virus. Even here, the upside was disease resistance, not health improvement. Potatoes, also in apples that don't go brown, cosmetic traits, not nutritional ones. So let's zoom out our GMOs, good or bad? Well, they are designed to make farming cheaper, faster and more chemically efficient, not to make your mitochondria happier, not to protect the soil, or not to reduce your toxic load. Other than the real problem of the DNA getting tweaked, it's the entire agricultural model built around it, more herbicides, more residues, damage to a microbiomes, fewer nutrients, seed patents that lock farmers into dependence and a food supply that becomes a more processed, more refined and less alive. The benefits tend to go to large agri businesses. The risks tend to land on consumers, clinicians and environment. And that's why so many people say that the science science is evil, but also it's that the system is out of control. At the end of the day, choosing non GMO and organic includes choosing farming practices that respect soil, reduce chemicals and keep you from being part of a lifelong glyphosate experiment. So that's our leak or tip of the week. So

Bill Clearfield  23:24
Okay, we're good, yeah. Thank you doctor. Thank you Dr. Nario, as as our tip of the week. So that's kind of, kind of, kind of what we get that that keeps us from having to go take the classes ourselves. So that's, that's kind of the summary of the whole week. I hope,

Speaker 4  23:37
yes, I don't want to use the word leak. The faculty is going to run after me. I'm leaking their so called Secret info.

Bill Clearfield  23:46
Yeah, so I'm having, I'm having a little technical difficulty here. So our speaker this week is Kelly Hansen. She's an registered dietitian, and I'm going to let you introduce yourself, because all of my electronics, except for right here, which I can't get get off of, or have sort of gone out all of a sudden. So I don't want me to read. I

Unknown Speaker  24:08
can introduce her. You do it?

Speaker 3  24:10
You have the bio in front of you? Yeah? I do yeah. Go ahead. Alright.

Speaker 4  24:14
Kelly Hanson is a registered dietitian who specialize in the powerful intersection between mineral balance, brain health and women's hormone resilience. For more than two decades, she has helped women translate complex lab findings and the subtle mineral imbalances into clear, doable nutrition and lifestyle strategies that calm the nervous system, sharpen cognition and support long term emotional stability. So Kelly focuses on how chronic stress, environmental exposures and modern diets widely deplete key minerals, and how this depletion can drive anxiety, fatigue, brain fog and mood swings. In her clinical work, she uses targeted mineral assessment, personalized nutrition planning and evidence informed supplementation to help women rebuild metabolic and neurological reserves, rather than simply pushing through stress. So as I sought after educator Kelly makes biochemistry feel practical and actionable in secrets of the mind, mineral connection, how stressors impact women, she guides practitioners through the latest insights and mineral testing, interpretation and treatment strategies so they can immediately apply this knowledge and practice. Her teaching style blends solid science with real world clinical pearls, empowering clinical clinicians to see minerals not as an afterthought, but as a central lever for restoring women's mental clarity, resilience and overall well being. So you have a book. Is that what it is?

Speaker 1  25:34
Kelly, nope, also not two decades of experience, about five years. Hey, not sure where that part came from.

Unknown Speaker  25:44
Look like she's 20 years old.

Unknown Speaker  25:47
Yeah, we got about five years of experience, but that's okay.

Unknown Speaker  25:49
We up your resume here.

Unknown Speaker  25:52
It must it must be all that good nutrition

Speaker 1  25:56
must be but yeah, I can definitely take it away from here. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  26:01
Okay, so I just want to let our crowd know that Kelly jumped in at the last minute we had that we're supposed to have Dr Sharon Houseman Cohen again from in telex DNA, but she had a little bit of a conflict or emergency, so Kelly was graciously allowed, agreed to be on with us tonight, so be nice to her, okay, not like, not like, not like, your usual behavior here tonight. Be nice. Okay, Kelly, go ahead. Thank you, yeah

Speaker 1  26:33
for inviting me. Um, so yeah. My name is Kelly. I am a registered dietitian and a personal trainer, and I do focus on functional nutrition, but also a lot on somatic healing, which is something I'm going to dive a lot deeper into tonight. I also do have a virtual community, so I do most of my coaching virtually. I have my own practice unfiltered nourishment, and then I also see clients through a tele health company called nourish, and then through a pediatric functional medicine clinic called Be well. So don't have any other financial disclosures. Okay, so tonight, you all will learn a little more about the impact of stress on minerals and how I use hDmA testing to inform my coaching, but also how we can see subconscious mind intersect with these things, some of the nutrition changes that I inform based on these factors. And then I said a little more about somatic healing practices and how they kind of differ from talk therapy and other forms of mental health focus. Okay, so my original journey started when I was having my own health issues, which I'll talk about in a minute. I've experienced working in the WIC clinic, so with moms and babies in long term care, and then moved into private practice. So I'd say most of my clientele is women, but I do see some men and many struggling with like disordered eating patterns, some with past eating disorder history and then a lot of weight management as well, PCOS, endometriosis, that kind of thing. So my path, as I said, to get me more interested in this field, which I did not grow up with, going to functional medicine practitioners. I was an athlete throughout my entire life, so I played basketball, softball and tennis, and then in college, I played softball and basketball. So looking back now, I realized that I had a really high training load all year long, with very minimal breaks, and it felt like something I could maintain, but that led to a lot of depletion in my body. I did not have a regular cycle, and didn't think a ton of it. I talked to my doctor, they kind of did the basic checks recommended the birth control, and I was kind of like, No, I don't want to do that quite yet. And it wasn't really until I was mid college that I tried birth control, and then I stopped it, and then I had a lot of inflammation come up, shown in my acne. So I had a couple of years of pretty severe cystic acne pop up that was much worse than even before. And so looking back now, like I said, I know that there was a lot of depletion, a lot of stress that was a piece of this. And some of the labs that I've been able to see have really confirmed this with seeing the calcium shell, which I'm going to talk a little bit about, a slight estrogen dominance in a Dutch test, and then just high inflammation markers and sub optimal nutrients like vitamin D, iodine, Omega three and antioxidants. So as I was researching things like like Felice Gersh and Dr Jolene Brighton, I was getting more connected in the field of functional medicine, and working with a practitioner who did a lot with micronutrients and genetics. And just starting to read about that, I started to take some different supplements, I started to see a lot of progress, like my skin was healing, my period was starting to regulate, and then I noticed when I had a more emotional like breakup in my life, so just a time with some emotional distress that my symptoms were starting to come back. And I was like, that's interesting. They must really be triggered by something that's stress related, or something in my body, something somatic, things started to get better. And then again, this past summer, I if, if anyone is familiar with in Iowa, which is where I am from, we have this crazy thing where we bike across the entire state. It's called RAGBRAI. People do come from all over. It's pretty fun. There's food stands everywhere. There's concerts. You can see my team bus here. So anyways, I started to train more intensely for this event. This was the second year I did it. Last year I only did like one day. This year I was gonna do four. So started to do more running, longer bike rides. Did this four days of biking and camping and just more inflammatory foods, right? And I noticed, okay, my my cycles became immensely painful, like I am reaching out to Dr Stephan, like, Well, what do I do? I'm literally vomiting and passing out. Like, this is horrible. And sure enough, the next month, I just go back to my normal training, yoga, weights, less stress and it's fine. So I've started to really see these patterns in my life, as I'm sure many of you see in your clients, that stress, of course, triggers these symptoms. So I became introduced to this stain acronym through the IFN integrative functional nutrition Academy, where I've done some of my training that really helps us to see why lifestyle can truly override some of our functional interventions. And so my goal today is to also share with you all how dietitians can play a really important role in functional medicine, and how we can kind of bridge gaps. So I'm really going to focus on the stress and the nutritional imbalances and how those are really key root causes for our clients, many different symptoms. So things that I see, and again, I do work primarily with women, and many of my clients are in a age category of about 2520 ish to 45 but I do see women in menopause as well and perimenopause. So some of the more emotionally rooted things that I think are so essential to be addressing in a kind of more strategic way than just telling someone once to you know, consider this is these feelings of kind of this addiction cycle when it comes to food and might be drinking, it might be sugar. And how these can really play a part in how our emotional state is, like, really, like socializing and things like that, how the blood sugar roller coaster, of course, that's a common thing I work with. How that can be spiking our anxiety and our stress hormones being just in this state of fear and scarcity based thinking, I find that even people who tell me they're not stressed, when I dig deeper, this is what we oftentimes find. And then another one that's really huge with women is like chronic body shame, perfectionism. I put a picture of two of my favorite actresses, from friends, Monica and Rachel, because I think many women grew up, of course, seeing these really lean, lean actresses in TV and in the media and that can really influence us on a subconscious level more than we maybe think. So really this these emotions that can then create biochemical reactions like inflammation, other things I counsel and educate a lot on, are things that can contribute to just this HPA axis, hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis, stress, right? So over exercise, without proper recovery, just the postpartum window, and how that depletion can last for years. Long Term hormonal birth control use and just like lack of boundaries. So these are, again, are just a few of the things I picked out. There's, of course, more things that can contribute to that adrenal distress, but these are some common ones. Okay, so hDmA testing is something I came across when I was doing my own research on healing skin. There is a dietitian, Robin Johnson, who I worked with very briefly, who gave me some really wonderful advice, really helped me to understand nutrition for mineral support and eating more animal based, and things that I didn't really feel like I grasped during my nutrition schooling as much. And this was a tool that she used, along with other labs. So I use it. I don't use it as a diagnostic tool, but kind of as a way to monitor clients progress, as well as sometimes give them a bit of a wake up call of, okay, you're you really are in this state of stress that you're not recognizing. Let's dig deeper. I also like it because it's a pretty accessible cost wise option. So some of the key clinical things we can pull from an htma are oxidation rate, so slow versus mixed versus fast, can tell us a little bit about macronutrient needs. Something I commonly still see is people just not quite eating good amount of healthy fats. So that can sometimes tell, tell me to work on that stress markers, the htma will look at ratios of nutrients. I'm not going to go all into all of these today, but happy to share more, if anyone like to learn more about that. And then high calcium, that's one that I really see commonly with stress that I'm going to talk about here in a minute. So one of the proposed mechanisms that htma can show with with stress is that when our sympathetic nervous system is activated, which might be for a long time or more acutely, that the cells then retain more sodium push out the potassium to help get the body back into rest and digest. Magnesium is then used up to calm down the nervous system. Calcium is mobilized, maybe out of the bone into the

Speaker 1  36:07
tissue, and this is like a way to numb the nervous system, and then possibly stress can also even influence copper status. So they're all kind of working together in different ratios. So again, it's really just giving me a snapshot of kind of where someone is at, but also helping me to educate them on, okay, we need to replenish these minerals. You might just not be consuming enough and and you're in a state of high stress. So we don't just want to work on replenishing them, but also taking away the stress, which I will get to in a few more slides here. So calcium shell, like I said, is one of the more common things I look for, and is really signaling me that, like their body is numbing the central nervous system. Feel like it's quite symbolic, because I see this in a lot of people that are kind of in this state of like I have to push through, like we're kind of taught this athlete mindset, or maybe they are in the postpartum window, where they just don't get good sleep, or they do overnight shifts. And so in time, it's been thought that the calcium shell could contribute to like osteoporosis, because that calcium is not getting into the bone, calcification of the heart, possibly even so one thing to note is that it actually does not mean we need to stay away from calcium in the food. It's more again, this stress process. So we're still eating dairy. Most of my clients, okay, another connection I can learn a bit from is the iron copper connection. So I educate a lot of my clients about the importance of vitamin A in their healing journey, because we need enough copper and vitamin A to kind of work together for this iron recycling system. We also can see that high estrogen can sometimes influence iron and copper status. So again, the htma is helping to identify and moderate monitor some of these potential problems with copper. It definitely helps to also have blood labs that like, we can check iron, check seroplasmin, we can check ferritin, things like that. To get a more full picture, there's also a thought, if you are familiar with hDmA practitioners, that copper can be bio unavailable, meaning that we are not able to use it. So when we support vitamin A, we might need to support vitamin C that can help make the copper more bio available, so that it can bind to the cereal, cereal plasmin and be usable. So this could influence thyroid health, heart health, acne and even potentially anemia. So low copper could possibly be a cause of anemia. High copper, as well is in the serum, has been shown to be associated with PCOS. So I think that, again, working on mineral status overall can really be important for these women struggling with hormonal imbalances and looking at their diet and their mental well being. Also, one final note on vitamin A is that I do see a lot of clients with with acne who've used this multiple rounds, and this can really deplete the vitamin A in the liver. So this is another sign that we may need to work on other nutrients if they've been really, really low in the vitamin A, we might need to work on the copper, the iron, so it's kind of on out of the control. And so sodium, potassium, this is something I'm typically encouraging all of my clients to work on. Is getting enough sodium and potassium in the diet, especially that potassium, so aiming for more like 4000 milligrams. I know the adequate intake was recently shifted to like 3400 so I do like to work on even a little bit higher. And some of the tips that I do have for increasing potassium would be adding in a little bit of cream of tartar, about a fourth teaspoon. If you mix in like an electrolyte drink or some juice could add about 500 milligrams. Coconut water is another really good, great source potatoes and dairy. Okay, so commonly, I'll see, especially if we're doing like, lower carb diets, that we're not getting enough potassium. Okay, so, like I said, sodium, potassium drinks are a common one I will work on, as well as dairy, just getting enough animal based foods or finding other sources for those nutrients can help support all of our minerals and then the carb, protein, fat balance, as well as targeted supplements, depending on where they are at. Okay, so aside from those recommendations, as I start to work with clients and blend the somatic healing work into their nutrition care, some of the foundations that I really, really focus on, whether this is in a more, a little bit more group style, which is my virtual community, or one on one, is really seeing food as a form of self care, pleasure and connection to the world, I think that it's so important to understand our food, yes, but it can sometimes backfire and trigger even more stress in clients. So it's really a fine line, and so I have just found these shifts can be really, really helpful for getting clients on board with making some of those more challenging nutrition changes, like cutting out sugar, shifting to a gluten free diet, things like that, that might really help them manage their symptoms. Another shift I make is kind of a devotion over discipline. Is what I call it when it comes to habits like really focusing on self compassion, building habit trackers into their lifestyle, using meditation apps, using yoga again, these all really depend on the person, but these are some of the best places I find to start, and then I really work hard to get them to see that their beliefs are an important aspect of their health, just like all the protocols, all the diet, all the workout things. So I love this quote from Christianne Northrop, who is one of my favorite authors, that your beliefs and thoughts are wired into your biology. They become your cells, tissues and organs. There's no supplement, no diet, no medicine and no exercise regimen that can compare with the power of your thoughts and beliefs, that's the very first place you need to look when anything goes wrong with your body. So again, I do know that all of the functional protocols are so so valuable and so important, but I think this is something that has really helped be a differentiator for me, too. So the importance of oxytocin is another thing I'll really start with explaining to clients that oxytocin is this hormone we activate in our own body, right? It gives them that power that they have, an easy, free tool that they can do to calm their stress, calm their cortisol, so it can also calm blood sugar for those clients that are insulin resistant.

Speaker 1  43:06
And so I put a kitty on here, because I feel like getting a pet was one of the best things for me to help regulate my stress. Because during the work day, I would just grab my kitty, cuddle her, take some deep breaths and just feel totally regulated again. Big fan of meditation as well. Okay, so as I get to know clients a little bit more, and we've we've started to build some of those foundations, build some trust, we start to dive into how we can connect science to spirituality and never talking about religion, but really just how I can help them connect all the dots, see that things are connected, as well as have, again, this own personal power in their journey. So one of the tools that I use, and I love this, because it's actionable, it's fast, it's something I can actually do in a call with somebody and teach them how to do, is subconscious reprogramming. So I was exposed to this through a practitioner, probably around three years ago, and really using it in my own journey, and finding that there's also things I was already doing that were kind of a similar, similar tool to subconscious reprogramming, but it really, I think, is important to first define what is the subconscious mind? So subconscious mind, or unconscious mind, as this visual right here calls it, is something that creates, is created based on conclusions we make, experiences and observations we have in life. I also believe it can be, in some sense, passed down from past generations, like if you think about trauma and generational trauma. I think this is something that shapes the subconscious mind, and then it creates your patterns, your habits, your beliefs that are conscious, right, that you are actually aware of. Okay? And so another practitioner, really, really helpful tool I've learned from her is the five soul wounds and how our stressors, our habits, our beliefs, can be rooted in one of these five soul wounds that are subconscious. So that's why I share that is I'm always when I'm working with a client, I'm trying to identify which soul wound are they most struggling with. Everybody has at least two of them. Was the way I was taught. But if you were to incorporate this, you would not need to necessarily use that. It just is helpful, helpful for me. So okay, what is the science behind subconscious reprogramming? So Neuroscience tells us that our beliefs and attention can shift brain waves and neural pathways. Quantum biology tells us that cells can communicate via frequency, light resonance. Placebo Effect is extremely powerful, telling us that belief and expectation can influence physiology. And then I recently came across the heart rate coherence studies from Heart Math, which talk about how inducing feelings not just like meditating and focusing on the breath. Because for a lot of clients, you'll find, I find that when I tell them to meditate, they're like, that's really uncomfortable. I don't really enjoy it right away. So actually teaching them in a appointment, I teach them how to actually activate these feelings. That is something I think can be even more powerful. But also doing practices like maybe going to a yoga class, you can activate gratitude. A lot of yoga classes are very focused on that, going to a spiritual community event that can influence the heart rate variability, the nervous system and essentially, the minerals, so really making those connections for clients. So when I'm working through a clearing, is what I call it, I have them actually bring up a recent experience you felt really loved, bring up a time you were a great friend, and start to feel those things when we are essentially taking out this negative emotion that we're working on. Okay, so review moving back a little bit to the neural pathways and how we actually create those thoughts around shame or around poor body image or self just unconfident lack of confidence in ourselves. So first we have a stimulus. So this could be like, for example, when you're two years old, you go up to a fire, and you put your hand close to it, and you feel that it's really hot, and your mom yells at you, right? That's a stimulus. So you create this neural pathway that hot is bad and scary, and that leaves this hand print, or this impression on your nervous system. Eastern medicine would refer to it as a samskara, and that is going to stay with you for the rest of your life, likely, in some way. So most of the experiences that I work with in the subconscious level happen at a very young age, like from age one to seven, that that's really the years your subconscious mind is developing most Okay, so then these neural pathways reinforce an automatic habitual behavior that stays with us, and it could be positive or negative, really, what the subconscious mind's job is in our our psyche and our life is to protect us, to keep us safe, keep us alive. Okay, so briefly, just going to walk you guys through what this subconscious reprogramming like technique would be in a one on one call format. So we first want to identify like, what is an obstacle that they're facing? Okay, what is their desired reality? So I'm going to give you example for a client with weight loss, okay, their obstacle is something around being consistent with their workouts, maybe, or something that they know they want to be doing to support their weight loss goals, right? Their desired reality is not just the weight loss, right, but what they want to feel they want to feel confident. They want to feel good in their body. The subconscious fear, after talking through things with her is she was fearing that if she does lose the weight, she won't be able to keep it off. She won't be able to maintain those results. Okay? So her limiting belief that we identify then through talking some more, is that that her her habits like do not connect to something she could keep right? So she didn't understand that by learning the skill of lifting weights, of caring for her body, of having these consistent habits and support systems that those are skills she would she would learn, and she wouldn't be able to just easily slip out of those, right? So she was in this kind of limiting belief that weight loss is a quick fix thing. So we identify that that's that's not the logical belief to have, like we use the conscious reasoning and thinking to rewire that and to get through that, and then we want to ingrain this new, empowering belief. So that's where we go through this meditation, where we essentially go back to when this first thing, this first time of feeling, that feeling happened. So for her, that feeling is, remember what it even was, probably this, like lack of confidence in self, something like that, that she wouldn't be able to stay successful, something like that. So there's a about a 20 minute meditation that kind of goes through, that we create the new feeling, and then you practice these new beliefs, which are called neuro linking, because you're linking a new belief to that. Okay, so I've had clients who, I mean, recently had one who she's like, she's a menopausal client, and had had these, this trauma around her family since she was, I mean, born, and she was still having a lot of anxiety come up that was triggering her GI distress. We went through this clearing, and she said she has not had a stomach ache in over a month, and it was so much less triggered when her family was in town. So it's different than just talking through these things, in a way, going to talk in a second here about how it's kind of similar to EMDR therapy. EMDR therapy, but again, I like it because it's quick, it's actionable, and it is something that they can do also on their own. Okay, so I'm going to get into just a couple of case studies, and I am going to focus in on some of my female clients. So this client is 27 I'm she had some anxiety, but did not want to take medication. Had a really sensitive reaction to her hormonal birth control is healthy. BMI had an increase in nerve pain, teeth sensitivity, nausea, painful cycles and acne. So a lot of signs that are telling me, okay, probably some mineral issues. Might be some autoimmune issues. She is a teacher and a coach, so a pretty busy lifestyle. Does eat a variety of foods, and has had some like long term diarrhea, no known causes. Also was a college athlete. Okay? So we by working through some quite simple protocols, have seen really, really good results by just really, I think one of the main factors in her subconscious mind was this belief that, like, she was giving her power away. And so really working on this personal healing power in her health journey that she, even though she didn't quite under, like understand all of the nutrition stuff, all of this functional medicine stuff, she has this power in her journey. Did work on, on some minerals, just her nutrition intake was not quite adequate, adequate. And really just seeing her nerve pain, teeth sensitivity, very much gone. Skin mostly improved, still some painful period stuff. But I always tell my clients that the hormones are typically like the last thing to regulate.

Speaker 1  52:47
So next one, a 28 year old who was working night shifts, a lot of high stress night shifts for some years, and mainly, like her, her main health concern is anxiety. Does have some emotional struggles, does do some high intense workouts, but nothing really super out of the ordinary. But if you can see it here on her mineral test, her calcium is 321, so that's quite high above 180 from this lab company is considered to be like the calcium shell, like extreme. So she's very, very high. And so, I mean, I think it makes sense like her, she was doing a lot of long fast, because she would be in or surgeries she was, she helped with, like, organ harvesting, essentially. And so she did do some alcohol socially. But I think it just like, really makes sense from her personality too. She's, she's a little bit, like I said, just struggles with her, her mental health, a bit so really working on on some of her lifestyle, things like calming the HIIT training, focusing more on walking and zone two, cardio, some light strength training, and getting into some spirituality, something that, again, I wouldn't just push on somebody, but really just validating her, encouraging her, acting as kind of a mirror for her to do these things, to focus on regular meals. She actually was recently able to shift out of her job into a little bit more of a flexible one. Still does some night shifts, but a little bit less stress there. So really excited to see how she improves, but is already like feeling just so much better. Another one is a 26 year old who had a history of anorexia in high school and has not had an anorexia like eating disorder flares or, yeah, like a retreatment or anything, but still has some mind body disconnect that I've noticed does work two desk jobs, and frequently was like starting her day with sugary coffee, not a great breakfast, so kind of that blood sugar roller coaster. And just like expressing some fears around she was going to stop birth control. So a lot of those things that, again, just are going to trigger some stress. So things we've really worked on, prioritizing breakfast, of course, simple exercise routines that have been able to teach her through the virtual app, and really like digging into some of those beliefs that might still be hanging out in her subconscious after having something as severe as anorexia, right? So shame and disgust around her body and appearance and she is is something that she has expressed. So that's something we've worked on. Is just like creating this belief that she's valuable, that her her body is not the most important thing about her, like her, all of her other characteristics and values are so important, and just this awareness of that stress, appetite connection and how, for some people, stress can actually eliminate their appetite, blood sugar, focus, things like that. So pending some minerals. But that's not always the thing. I'll really start with that slide is out of order. Okay, one more case study. Hopefully you're all are still with me is a 35 year old female who is working with a functional doctor for peptides, hormones and DLP one. So she does have a desk job and is a caretaker for her kiddos so frequently, like, forgets to eat, kind of over schedules herself, I've noticed, and just like has expressed some concerns with her her body image. So again, working through these functional protocols, if she's not eating, it's going to be a lot harder for that GLP one to be effective. We need that protein right to make the peptide. So working on those small, micro habits, I know it's something you guys have probably already heard, but those really small, doable habits getting even just like some fasting from social media, things that can help her feel more grounded throughout her day, that can then open the door to doing some more belief clearing and to working through some of Those feelings of overwhelm and just cultivating that safety and routine. Okay, so when we address the subconscious fears, we create a new cellular environment for healing. Definitely seen this in my own life, as I said, EMDR therapy is kind of similar to this, but is a little bit more focused on, I would say, like bigger trauma, like PTSD, extreme grief, where I would not necessarily be working with with that. It's more of these things that kind of are hidden to people, right? Like how they view money, how they view relationships, how they view food, and how their subconscious mind might be kind of sabotaging them. So I also consider somatic healing, which is like anything where you're getting into the body you have body awareness to be things like retreats, again, doing yoga or mindful movement, whatever that looks like, hikes, working on just feeling good around food, feeling good in relationships, any of those places that were causing fears and stresses to come up, also similar to or different from, from talk therapy, somatic, I think of kind of like, if you as a kid, right, you were, you were, like, learning about the animals in school, right? That was kind of boring. That's kind of how I think of talk therapy, right? It takes a little bit longer you're doing this logical learning. You're developing some awareness, but then the somatic healing is like when you took that field trip to the zoo and you were like, This is amazing. This is awesome. I love these animals. So you're you're focusing on that feeling in the body, co regulation techniques. So that could mean working with a practitioner, being in community with other humans, or it can sometimes be done on your own as well. You're hopefully supporting vagal toning by doing the breath work, going on walks, things like that. Okay, so these are some of my references, um, some of my favorite client tools. I'm happy to share with you all that you can share with your clients who you feel like might be a good fit for some of this. And then I would love to answer any questions and connect about any of my one on one coaching or my community services. So I do accept insurance depending on the state. Thanks guys.

Unknown Speaker  59:32
Well, thank you. Thank you. Anybody have any questions? Awesome.

Unknown Speaker  59:40
Job, amazing. Thank you. I'll be reaching out.

Unknown Speaker  59:48
There's one in the chat. Should

Unknown Speaker  59:50
I unshare my screen?

Bill Clearfield  59:52
Check Dr John Lewis's research valuing lower cortisol and clients that routinely visit sacred spaces. That would make sense, right? What was it? Dr John Lewis has some research on lowering cortisol levels of clients that, yeah, right. And again, you know, the the mind body connection that a lot of us doctors, sort of, sort of, you know, not the ones here, but but out in the real world, you know, sort of, it was very,

Speaker 1  1:00:31
I want to add quick is this app, the higher self app, is actually very unique from other meditation apps. This is the one that really, this is the practitioner who trained me in the subconscious work. So if you're curious, it is a paid app, but there is a free trial for yourself or anybody. It's just kind of interesting to see the the process on there. And she has a lot of really good tracks around different emotions.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:54
So yeah, well, thank you. Thank you so much. Dr nary, you got any online questions?

Speaker 4  1:01:02
Yeah, I do. So I got a lot of curious cats here. So the there's so many ways in how to test minerals, as you showed and I think you kind of chose the hair, right? And there's urine, there's blood. Why is this something that you chose in terms of the modality for assessment,

Speaker 1  1:01:22
yeah. So I started by using the micronutrient panel from vibrant America, which is blood. That was one of my mentors. Like, absolutely loves that one, and I do feel like that one is amazing, and I do use urine for the iodine, but I just find that this one connects to the stress patterns in the nervous system really well. And again, it's not really that I'm going to do high doses of any supplements. So I still think doing the blood one is helpful, and in some people do both. But for the people I work with too, just the lower cost is nice too. So, yeah, it's again, it's more just informing kind of where we're at. How stressed Are they like for myself, I was still doing some B vitamins. I was still doing vitamin D, other nutrients too. So I do feel like I have a holistic under you need to have a holistic understanding of, like, which nutrients apply to which symptoms.

Speaker 4  1:02:23
So, yeah, and then, as you mentioned about, I think you're really pushing chronic stress as one of the big drainers of minerals here, that stress increases mineral excretion in urine. I mean, we lose it, and not only through but also through sweat glands, like especially magnesium, zinc, sodium, potassium, yeah, adrenals rely on these minerals for cortisol regulation. So really, we kind of, we don't see minerals as much as we do in practice. But your Yeah, your points here are really valid that we need to look into this a little deeper. Yeah, right. And, and then in relation to, here's a here's a good question about the copper imbalance, like copper zinc ratios, is that something that you look into in assessing moods, stress response? Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:03:15
the way that I was taught is to really first focus on the first four minerals the sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium. So I do, I do look at that ratio, but I do think blood testing is pretty essential to accurately, like truly assess zinc and copper. Again, it's not diagnostic. But I do, yeah, I do like using liver for certain clients to get a little bit of the copper vitamin A and just see if that is improving their symptoms and mood like that was something that really helped me. But I know it's, it's not necessarily for everyone. So yeah, I think the copper zinc conversation is definitely like, I just, I do see different perspectives out there too.

Speaker 4  1:03:54
So yeah, so copper really is known for, as we call there's a copper toxicity, especially when you're doing a lot of copper replacements. I mean, you're adding it in your supplements, and it's known to increase norepinephrine. So as we know, as norepinephrine gets into the system, we put our states into more sympathetic status there, thus anxiety, irritability, even mood shifts, occurs when copper gets that out of hand. So that's why that's that's definitely something that we need to look into as well, and in relation to, I guess, mineral deficiencies you mentioned about those four favorites that you have did is lithium, something that came up in your I guess, in your studies that when most of the time as me sharing my clinical practice, low lithium, especially, I guess orotates and hair samples, a lot of depression, a lot of anxieties, a lot of psychiatric conditions that goes along with it, is that something that you've seen as well.

Speaker 1  1:05:01
You know, I really haven't studied too much into lithium. I know it was in some of my ifna trainings, but I haven't as much. So I will definitely view some of that. I feel like it's, again, it's not one of the main ones that I look at with the htma. So, yeah, yeah. Do you test it in the blood? Or have you

Speaker 4  1:05:23
done it? It's actually here, though. We use another company, and I saw this mostly in my cancer patients. So when we, when we, of course, want to find the root cause of cancer, we always want to look into the heavy metal content of the system. And hair is just so fast. When you talk about urine challenge testing, you have to put an IV in there. You have to make them take oral chelators. But for hair, you will always notice that cancer with along with you'll find out with these patients, they either have anxiety, depression along with it and it doesn't. Of course, cancer brings these things along with that also, but when you look at their profiles, low, lithium is very common. We were talking about this in the Cancer Center. We were even thinking that we should probably do a study on this, just because of the amounts of results that we've been seeing and how common it was so but anyway, just food for thought there that lithium definitely is worth looking into.

Speaker 1  1:06:25
Yeah, I will. I know somebody asked what company I use? I've used analytics.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:32
Let's, let's, we'll wait till the CKB is over. Sorry, okay, okay. There is a question, though, did you check thyroid levels on your patients,

Speaker 1  1:06:42
I do check them if they're able to run blood labs. Oftentimes I refer out when there's severe thyroid.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:49
Thyroid test. Do you run

Unknown Speaker  1:06:52
a full thyroid panel if I can? Which is,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:56
I gotta drag it out of you here.

Speaker 1  1:06:58
Psh, t3, t4, I always do the antibodies free t3 think that's all of them I liked. I mean, iodine is definitely something I will check.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:08
Did you do iodine? Are you doing spot urine? Are you doing a 24 hour urine?

Speaker 1  1:07:12
I'm doing the 24 hour urine. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:16
Okay, all right. And then Dr barley says, Dr Jonathan Wright has a lecture on minerals and unusual minerals, low dose lithium take prevents hangover and balances mood five to 25, milligrams a day. And you don't need to check lithium levels at that lithium helps to grow neurons.

Speaker 1  1:07:38
There you go. I'll definitely look into both you more.

Speaker 3  1:07:41
So there you go. Okay, all right, somebody wanted to see the reference slide again.

Speaker 6  1:07:49
Great. Kelly gets pimped like she's on a student rotation by Dr Clearfield.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:54
But, well, that's my job here. Kelly, somebody asked about if you could go back to the to the reference slide, yeah, here it is. Was that it Yes, and we'll talk about companies when the CME portion is over. Okay? So

Speaker 4  1:08:23
So Kelly, there's another question here. So you do use the HM a panel. So assessing heavy metals in relation to basically, elevations of heavy metals in relation to mineral depletions or excess, do you see any pattern in the test that you've seen, the steps that you've done with your patients? Are there any correlation at all?

Speaker 1  1:08:46
Yeah, there's, I don't, I mean, I don't typically start with detox, so most of my clients are so early on that I'm starting with preparing their nutrients first and the stress. But, I mean, there are some articles I've read about like, fast oxidizers tend to be excreting more of their heavy metals, whereas the slow oxidizers tend to be holding on to more of their their mineral, their their metals, and usually aluminum is the only one I see pretty high. All of the rest of them are either zero detection or just like a tiny bit. So I don't really know why the aluminum,

Speaker 4  1:09:24
but Right? Well, there's a there's some known correlations. I mean, in general. I mean not, not only as we see patients, we know that lead competes with calcium, for example, mercury, like it lowers down zinc and cadmium lower down iron. So displacing essential minerals from these specific enzyme systems can be found in specific results. So these are things that probably are, I want to, I don't want to say standardized, but definitely there are guidelines that these are all correlated. So another question is, I guess this is one of the the send off questions that they had for you. If you had to give the audience one mineral rule that would improve their mood and energy tomorrow, what would it

Speaker 1  1:10:10
be increased potassium intake, all right,

Speaker 4  1:10:14
potassium, it is magnesium right up there too, but there you go. Magnesium is my favorite. So I kind of put it as second there. But you like potassium and magnesium. I think that's what we're all looking for, because you all know, 300 enzymatic processes are involved in magnesium, and every food that we have out there is basically processed and have depleted its magnesium content. Yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:10:38
for sure. Somebody also asked about, why is copper high in Alzheimer's? I don't know. The one mechanism I did pull in one of these studies is that oxidative stress can impact ceruloplasmin. It's a mouthful which can then lead to the high copper because it's not bound. That would be my one thought, right?

Speaker 4  1:10:59
And when you have high copper, as you know, it's yeah, as you said, increases oxidative stress. It also affects the mitochondrial, etc, electron transport chain, and thus the functions of your mitochondria, especially in brain cells, are getting affected by that, right? Well, Kelly, you got all my questions out. That was a great presentation. You got a great participation from our email questions here. One more

Speaker 1  1:11:23
question on potassium. It looks like 1/4 teaspoon is 500 milligrams. And I also do advise like, don't go much above 500 milligrams of either cream of tartar or potassium citrate. It can potentially cause some issues. But if you're doing like coconut water, and you go up to like 800 milligrams, you're totally fine. Most electrolyte powders I look at either have like, no potassium, some have up to like 500 milligrams. So I do like the brand relight. It does have stevia. People don't. Some people like stevia, but it has 500 milligrams potassium, 500 sodium, 300 milligrams of magnesium.

Speaker 3  1:12:05
Okay, okay, all right. Kelly, thank you so much.

Speaker 7  1:12:10
My question that I would like to ask, I saw one time they have silver and silver and copper, sovereign silver and copper and silver, that it's a company, and one time I start drinking because I got the bottle of that, is there a toxicity, or is there something that we can should watch. I mean, my question is, could I have trigger something or get intoxicated with this with copper?

Speaker 4  1:12:49
Yeah, I think you're mentioning about this. Dr Bill, are we off? CME, not yet. We went, Oh, okay, there's a specific company that she's talking about. Okay, so,

Bill Clearfield  1:13:00
so thank you very much. Kelly, it's been great. We will see you all again next week, same time, same station is Stefan, are you on? I have you and your mother on next week. Is that still on?

Unknown Speaker  1:13:14
Yeah, sure. We can make it happen.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:15
Okay, alright, alright, everybody. Thank you so much. Okay, go for it. Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:13:22
So the one that rationale is asking about is the one that he makes Colloidal Silver also,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:34
yeah, so

Speaker 7  1:13:35
gallon, because I went to a conference and he said he doesn't need them anymore. And I think I went to the hotel and I said, Oh, I should replace my copper. I was thinking, now I could have got some problem.

Speaker 4  1:13:52
Yeah, I mean, what the content of that? I think that's that supplement is 150 micrograms of copper. So if you think about it, that's really small, and it also has silver in it. I think 30 micrograms of that. And you would hear them advertise this also as homeopathic doses. I don't know if, when you went to the booth, did they talk to you about that?

Speaker 7  1:14:17
No, I did not know it's homeopathic doses, but they have silver and silver, and I heard that it's very good for the bacteria, viruses. And one patient told me that she was treated from a viral chronic she has an Epstein bar, and the doctor was always fatigued, and she was treated with IV Colloidal Silver, alright, right?

Speaker 4  1:14:44
And that's the same company. It's immunogenic, natural immunogenics. That's the the company that made silver in this one, too. So, yeah, these, these are very minute doses of copper. But still, as I as mentioned, there's always a copper zinc ratio that you want to keep an eye out for. And I've taken this copper that you have just mentioned as well, but I make sure also, I always take the zinc just especially now it's getting colder, so I don't think you'll go wrong with that, but I think this is a safe product, especially with the dose that it has.

Speaker 8  1:15:20
Okay? May I ask a question? If that's okay, sure, I'm off video because I'm driving about thyroid and PTSD. So my daughter and daughters went through some craziness while we went through some stuff. But anyways, my one daughter after covid, she. went all the way down to, you know, like 44 and we would go to the hospital and try to do workups and things. And, long story short, her cortisol ended up being elevated. Should assist on her pituitary and her thyroid functions were all over the place. We went to a concierge endocrinologist because we couldn't be seen at the hospital by, you know, for alternative medicine, insurance wouldn't cover it when I thought was the most interesting thing that did not make sense to me at all was that the physician said that if you corrected the depression, it would help the thyroid. And I thought, that doesn't make sense. I've always been taught you correct the thyroid, it'll correct the depression. Is there any thought on that? And I mean optimizing anything, and what age would use, you know, acutely? Do you know, I know we try to optimize other things so the thyroid corrects itself. But if someone's having depression, would you acutely treat that? Or what are your thoughts?

Speaker 4  1:16:35
My thoughts on that would be me, for me as I view that, fix the adrenals rather. I mean, when you fix depression, you're really, what is he pertaining to antidepressants. We also know this connection between the thyroid, adrenal connection, when you want to fix one, both should also be, I guess, talking to each other properly. So I think when you mentioned about the cortisol issue, definitely I will work on the mind body work, mind body medicine, and also some adrenal supports. Definitely that will help. For the

Speaker 8  1:17:13
adrenal support, we have a bioharmonic bed that we used, and I that's been really helpful. She actually slept 13 hours after she had that. And then the microbiome, obviously, we've corrected and worked on that. Sorry to interrupt you, and I'm like, tell me I'd put a Cheeto on my forehead if it helped my

Speaker 4  1:17:31
kid. Yeah, but that's what those are my thoughts. Every time I fix a thyroid, I make sure I fix the adrenal glands as well. And it was pretty obvious on your testing, as you said that it was abnormal.

Bill Clearfield  1:17:44
Yes, yeah. So usually for depression, that the four main hormones, again, is cortisol, or your adrenal the thyroid, testosterone and estrogen. Those are the, those are the, usually, in that order. So there's a hormonal component that's, that's where you're going to,

Speaker 8  1:18:04
and there is, but would you correct it medically with medication, supplements? What would you go to first? If it's, I mean, they're all were abnormal, to be honest.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:12
Sometimes, sometimes it's a feel, you know, it depends on, you know, if she comes up, you know, if we, we do our evaluation, she's got a testosterone of four, I'll give her testosterone. You know, if she's got a testosterone of 22 or 23 total, 30 to 40 is usually optimal. And we probably use some, some, you know, herbal remedies. There's some Ayurvedic herbs that work nicely. There's some Chinese herbs that work nicely. Same with, same with the thyroid. It depends on, on, you know, you know, where she's in that cascade. So, but I agree, you know, usually we go with the adrenals first, then the thyroid, then testosterone than the estrogens. So how old is she 1616? And she's have menstrual cycles, regular, irregular, regular, regular. She have a lot of pain with them. Yes. Okay, so usually the last, the last week before her cycle. Yeah.

Speaker 8  1:19:17
I mean, it's just like anxiety, depression, worse around the cycle.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:20
So is it associated with the cycle?

Unknown Speaker  1:19:25
Yes, I think it's way worse, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:19:27
worse at the in the mid cycle, and then maybe the last week of the cycle, exactly. Okay, so that's usually that one is actually probably a relative progesterone deficiency versus estrogen. So we need we look at the ratio between the two of them, and then we'll balance them. That's, that's

Speaker 8  1:19:48
Thank you. Do you take Virtual Console? Sorry, guys, I'm doing a full on just side curb consult here. But do you do out of out of state, or I'll just reach out to you anyways. Thank you guys. It's hard when it's hard when it's your own family, your common sense goes out the window.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:03
And then I'm sure Dr Gerber has something in the homeopathic world to add to it also, don't you? Dr Gerber

Speaker 9  1:20:11
caught him sleeping there. No, no. There's 52 things for depression in the world of homeopathy, and, course, in the world of infectious disease, of which is if a mesomorphic person walks into my office and they're decently muscled in decent size, and, you know, having depression anxiety, you know, we need to support the adrenal, that's for sure, And maybe the thyroid. But also, you know, trying to find the underlying pathology, which is very frequently, you know, me, it can be bacterial or viral, you know, or any the other bugs that we commonly look for. But, yeah, oh, there's zillions of Homeopathics that are great for depression.

Speaker 4  1:21:00
Okay, I think Kelly, you're gonna give us the brand names of your Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:21:09
go for it now. Oh, yeah, I've used the analytical research labs.

Speaker 4  1:21:14
Yeah. Is that because of the cost you like it, or just more of the accuracy? Well, why do you

Speaker 1  1:21:21
Yeah, the accuracy that they wash the hair. I've heard that it makes it more accurate and cost wise too.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:32
How much is it? If I may ask, I think it's

Speaker 1  1:21:34
$50 per test. It's

Speaker 4  1:21:37
not bad. It's actually a good price. Yeah, the

Unknown Speaker  1:21:41
other company, what was the other one? Called,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:44
I use doctor's data. I think that's 79 but you get, you get toxic metals and minerals all at all in one, in the hair sample. And for some reason, I don't know where you are, but for some reason in this area, every time every single patient I've done, the uranium levels are off the chart. So maybe because we were downwind from where they used to do nuclear testing 50 years ago

Speaker 8  1:22:14
or six, that might make sense. I have melasma patients with the higher copper levels all the time. In Orlando, the copper levels were outrageous in Orlando. It's so interesting.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:27
Alright, so where's that research group? Dr Quinn, we can get you to we can get you to do research and mineral excesses and deficiencies in different areas

Unknown Speaker  1:22:38
of the country. Oh, my goodness, that sounds easy.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:42
It's, it's it shekels in your neck of the woods, right?

Speaker 6  1:22:48
You don't know. Dr Quinn, we published the one here recently this year in Brevard County regarding iodine deficiency

Bill Clearfield  1:22:57
that might be interesting to hear next week. Dr Stefan, all right. All right, you said you bring mom on too, right? Yeah, I can bring her on, yep.

Speaker 10  1:23:07
Okay, here we go. Stefan, you guys also had high fluoride levels, right? Yes, iodine, yes. I mean, I had done, yeah, oh, yeah. And then, you know, when you mentioned testing through the hair, Kelly, I don't know, maybe Dr town can weigh in on this. If you're testing for heavy metals through the hair, I think there's only one form, like methyl mercury comes out in the hair. You can be Mercury toxic in other ways, if you're looking for toxicity, that probably is not the best way to do it.

Speaker 4  1:23:45
Kelly, do you have issues with contamination? If it's you're using your samples?

Speaker 1  1:23:50
Yeah, I mainly tell them, I ask if they've dyed their hair that could contaminate it, and then making sure the hair is not too sweaty or like greasy could possibly contaminate it, and just making sure they know how to take the sample.

Speaker 4  1:24:04
But, yeah, do you get it from the back of the head, like, or you just randomly get a doctor down, sit in the

Speaker 1  1:24:12
back of the head? Yeah, I mean anywhere that's close to the root, really. So it doesn't have to be like at the bottom, it just has to be right the inch closest to the root,

Speaker 4  1:24:22
right, right. Okay, there's almost the same process as Dr zada then, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:29
Do you see any differences of you know, especially in females that use hair dyes and whatnot.

Speaker 1  1:24:34
Is it that is something that could I have read, could impact it. I honestly haven't ran into it too much of anyone who's like if they just add their hair, I just won't do it. I'll wait three to four months at least. So yeah,

Speaker 10  1:24:52
good, okay. Can I ask a quick question here? Real fast. Kelly, you did, you did mention strength training. And there's a couple of us, Stefan Hartman and myself, that are very into muscle centric health. Do you emphasize strength training a lot, or is it just kind of like a

Speaker 1  1:25:10
helpful lifestyle thing? Yeah, yeah. So in my community and my app, I do strength programs for women, so I definitely, definitely emphasize it. It isn't something that all of my clients focus on. But yeah, I give them, give them programs, whether it's home at a gym,

Speaker 10  1:25:26
yeah, great, yeah, you were an athlete. So I believe it. Would you say you were an athlete? So I believe you do emphasize it.

Speaker 1  1:25:35
Oh, yeah, yep. And it's really been, like I said, interesting to see my body respond better to strength than to like the hard cardio. After one or two months, it will shift my cycle.

Speaker 10  1:25:48
I think the the hard cardio can be detrimental in a lot of ways if you overdo it. I don't think I've ever seen a healthy looking marathoner.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:02
I've been talking to Lisa tomati This this week. So didn't she look healthy after she ran that 100 mile race? You know who she is? Yeah, she's the ultra marathon runner in New Zealand, and she shows pictures of, look, I don't know how she takes another step. It looks like she's going to collapse and that's going to be the end of her Yeah, I believe that. I keep, I keep asking her why, why she did that? And her answer was always the same, because it was there exactly. I ran a couple of marathons and I said, this is nuts. I couldn't get out of bed for a whole week afterwards. This is crazy.

Speaker 4  1:26:49
Okay, there's a question on the channel about rife. Go ahead. Oh, I think it was Joanie, do you use that?

Speaker 8  1:27:00
I actually, yes, I have one, and I'm just now playing with it, like kind of learning about it more. It was hard to find I probably should admit that I have one, but I do, and it's interesting. I haven't done it long enough. You know what I mean, I'm one of those terrible people that will look at things on myself before I put them on someone else. And no, I didn't get a shot caller when I have someone that has a defibrillator. But anyways, you know, it's one of those things that just seems it makes sense to me. It completely makes sense. But I wonder if there's some sort of brain reset with neuroplasticity, with it, it would just seem

Speaker 4  1:27:35
like there would be something we use Rife machine here in the practice and to for everybody who doesn't are not familiar, who doesn't know about it. It's actually a device that generates low energy electromagnetic frequencies designed to target, originally pathogens in the body without harming healthy cells. So this was developed by Raymond rife in the 1930s and the frequency specific frequencies will resonate with organisms, thus neutralizing them, and then suddenly evolve into something more. Now we're talking about promoting parasympathetic activity or promoting healing. There's so many different frequencies now that you can use it on and we use it in the practice, not by itself. It's definitely a modality that works with other things as well. I but I have seen practitioners use it as a lone modality, and it helps. But for me, in my clinical experience, it's supposed to be, I mean, for me, it's an adjunct, some modality that works with other things

Speaker 8  1:28:35
also. What do you mean? Like use it with if you don't mind

Speaker 4  1:28:38
me asking, a good example would be when we have IV therapies here in the clinic, so we attach the Rife machine on them at the same time. So there is a setting there that helps faster entry into the cells, so faster, better absorption using frequencies. So that's just an example, but there's so many different acupuncture right when you're doing acupuncture, it promotes the parasympathetic activity, and you put the Rife machine on them, so it actually increases the effectivity of the modality.

Speaker 8  1:29:10
Fantastic. The interesting with cryotherapy, for the

Speaker 4  1:29:13
vagal nerve recess, you might break the Rife machine,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:18
true, but if it's on the neck, the spot cryo,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:24
or those ice baths, don't definitely put

Speaker 8  1:29:26
that in there. No, I've been using it for vagal nerve reason. It's actually kind of interesting. But, yeah, yeah, that's good.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:36
Okay, we want you to go to the Congress of medical excellence.com. And register right now, right on the homepage. Do it right now while you're while you're sitting there looking at us and no excuses,

Speaker 4  1:29:50
okay, Steve, we even changed the sign of Reno just for our conference.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:55
We actually, yeah. Thought this was pretty clever. Congress of medical excellence, 5.0 the biggest conference in the universe. I thought, I thought, I thought we did a pretty nice job on this. Look at that.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:09
Well, yeah, you did remove the actual letters from the

Bill Clearfield  1:30:12
signage. Yeah, yeah, we got, we got this. He says, Reno here, and the real, the real Reno, large, but I think, I think we did a really nice job there. So, so we need you register right now. Don't even think about it, even if you can't come register.

Speaker 8  1:30:32
So there's a virtual option, you said earlier, right? What's that? A virtual

Bill Clearfield  1:30:38
option? There is a virtual option. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:30:41
I'm in. I'm in. Yes,

Speaker 4  1:30:43
Jody, you're gonna miss the good stuff, though. You're not gonna see the band. Oh, we're gonna virtual

Bill Clearfield  1:30:49
that. You're gonna You're gonna miss Dr Fong,

Unknown Speaker  1:30:51
singing. I'm the tambourine player that you always

Speaker 3  1:30:56
need if we get you a gig, what can, can we? Can we have you come? Come visit us?

Speaker 11  1:31:04
Me, yep, you, yeah, you, yes. I would love to bring the tambourine,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:09
the tambourines right here with rice.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:13
You're here all the categories. We got students, we got lay people. We got advanced homeopathic practitioners. These are this one's virtual. We got lay people for the whole conference, lay people for a day, military in house, advanced homeopathic practitioners and assistants, retired doctors, physicians, virtual physicians in house. And then we still have, I think we have all of our meals covered. We have, we have a non CME lecture for breakfast every morning. So those of you are here, make sure you get there by 730 so we can, one, feed you, and two, we can keep our sponsors happy, and also at lunch. And then we have some sponsor tables left too, if you're, if you're so so inclined that you you want to sell something from the apothecary Doctor Quinn,

Speaker 4  1:32:08
we have so much food here. Yeah, that's why come and get stuff

Speaker 3  1:32:13
with healthy food. Come and get come and get stuff.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:15
Well, you were complaining about it in ammg, so now,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:19
yeah, so wait, dr, Fitzsimmons, Gene, are you still here?

Speaker 11  1:32:25
Yeah, you're here, right? So, Gene, Fitzsimmons, yes, I'm still here. So you were there. I'm eating dinner, actually.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:31
But am I wrong? They had one breakfast. They did the sponsored lunches. They had nothing for breakfast on Thursday

Speaker 11  1:32:42
or Friday. No, the only one morning they had

Bill Clearfield  1:32:48
breakfast nothing on Friday, Saturday or Sunday, they didn't have any snacks. They did have a lunch for but that was that was sponsored. They had one week cocktail party where you had to flip through the vendors and nothing after that.

Speaker 11  1:33:08
And it was I was shocked or surprised.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:13
We don't treat you that way.

Speaker 11  1:33:15
I know I'm coming. All right? I know, I know, I know I haven't registered yet, but I'm coming. We're gonna, we're

Bill Clearfield  1:33:23
gonna have to, Dr narrow and I are gonna have to scour the countryside and bring you all in by your ear.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:30
We're gonna stuff about it like a turkey, yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:34
okay, Dr Gerber, you have any comments about your your your group, that what they're saying, and we were, you know, we're pitching woo here.

Speaker 9  1:33:46
You know, you caught me off guard about comments on, on depression, you know. And just thinking back a sec that it's old, abuse, physical, sexual, verbal abuse. So staff is Agria is a great one for people that are harboring a lot of old abusive history. And of course, grief and loss. You know, I just lost two parents and a sibling in an Ignacia Mara helps to blunt that grief. And, you know, not to mention people just old injuries. Period, they've had suffered a lot of head injuries. And good old Arnica is very, you know, important, and again, to not forget vaccine damage. And good old Thuya. Thuya occidentalis is great for vaccine damage. We used a lot of that. A lot of adults, a lot of people have still bear the the scars from vaccine damages as a kid, or even recently, for the recent ones. But those are just some other good things to remember about depression is trying to clear up some of those issues as well where homeopathy really shines. So we hope homeopathy is really going to shine at the at the conference. Conference, absolutely, we've getting everybody lined up and ready to go. So I I'm very confident we're going to have a great

Bill Clearfield  1:35:14
time. Yeah, we're going to have a great time. That's just throw the line out there. Dr Gerber, don't, don't, don't. Let you know we don't want to hook them just yet. So, right. So if those of you are not going to be there, this is what, this is what you're going to be missing. So Dr Gerber is going to give us, you know, a good portion of his wisdom on these, you know, homeopathic secrets,

Speaker 9  1:35:39
as well as good old parasites and Lyme and other fun guys that we have to deal

Bill Clearfield  1:35:46
with. And we're, he's, he's bringing up Thomas levy from mede in Colombia, who's going to be speaking for about three hours, right? We have

Speaker 9  1:35:55
allotted for him? Well, he has many books to have knowledge to express, but I think he really cover a lot of great bases for us to especially bring up the younger folks that haven't been exposed to all of this information.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:13
That's right. Okay. So, yeah, I have a medical student with me. This, this, he just started last week, and we brought him to ammg, and he was like looking around, and he said he learned more in four days with with me and at the conference that they learned in four years, in his fourth year medical school. So that so that a little bit of vote of confidence. So okay, and Dr Quinn, are you still around? There you go tell us about Thursday.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:46
Tell us about Thursday.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:47
Thursday. Thursday at the

Speaker 10  1:36:48
conference. Oh, at the conference, yeah, okay, I'm getting a final thing to you. After tomorrow. I'm going to talk to Dr Dimitri. He said he would finalize exactly how much time he needs. Dr zavin will not make it, so we're going to do virtual stuff. So I spoke to Dr Nario. We're going to try to split these things up. Doctor Tanno, Since he'll be there, we'll have at least two hours for his Tobin program, and then we'll dovetail into into some other things. Apologies for us not being able to make it. We will make sure that there's plenty of time for other people that are there. We're not going to run over. That's the goal. So Dr Shallenberger halasa And those guys that are there will have plenty of time in the afternoon. Okay, you got it? Okay, I'll get your final list.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:35
Okay, alright, so that's what we have planned. And Saturday, we have a complete lineup of integrative medicine. We have Felice Gersh, we have Dr Nario. We have and we have Dr Holman far integrative dentistry, we have Marlene Siegel, who, you know, those of you have heard her, you know she is just dynamite. You know, say, you know what's a veterinarian doing in our group, and you know she fits right in and and then I'll be there also. So I'm going to be talking about my 50 years, the advances that, that, that I've used in the 50 years I've been in medicine. It's hard to believe I started medical school July 1, 1975 and you think I haven't had enough of it by now, but we're still here and still had it so, so that's what's coming up, Kelly, if you're still one, thank you so much for being with us, and it's thanks for having me. It's been a pleasure. Please, you know, please return. We've like we've been here every Tuesday since October of 2020, I think, except last year on Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve were two where Tuesday night. So, so we took off, but we've been on every Tuesday that since 2020 we have an extensive video library. One of these days, we'll, we'll find someone who'll take the time to sort of correlate it. Now that's a little bit easier, and maybe put it into some, some some volumes, and we can have our own school of medicine, right? We'll call it the Melvin Mario School of, School of functional medicine.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:24
How about the bio edge School of got that symbol up there so

Unknown Speaker  1:39:32
get angry at me.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:35
Well, you know, you know my, you know my, my, my philosophy. If I, if I don't get to have the powers, it'd be angry at me at least two to three times a week. I, you know, I'm not trying to. So, okay, so with that, anybody else have any comments or questions?

Speaker 9  1:39:53
Have we heard about the Melvin, I believe, put in Zohar sweetone. Is she still going to be speaking?

Speaker 3  1:40:04
Yeah, we can't move her, unfortunately,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:07
but we'll still get Dr, dr Devlin his two hours so

Unknown Speaker  1:40:12
he gets it. We'll get Dr

Speaker 9  1:40:14
Devlin is to good. I would love to have a little info about her if I'm introducing her. So we'll get that to you. Get that to me. Thank you very much. Thank you very

Bill Clearfield  1:40:27
much, my mentors for 20 years. So start with that, but we'll get you to we'll get you the real stuff. I don't know if that counts or now maybe that's a strike against

Speaker 10  1:40:37
Dr Clearfield, I got one thing, if you don't mind, from the Saturday group. As you know, we spent most of our time trying to get together what we're going to do on Thursday. But something that always comes up is education from us on various things everybody wants to promote. Dr Tanno and Dr Anthony James's courses that they have, they've got everything from a two week to a two year to four year courses with a doctorate in sacred traditional medicine. The question was asked, if Dr Nario has any ideas on Dr Weil and his course, and if there's any association with that, and more importantly, how was he able to make inroads, especially at U of A or something like that? Dr Burgess said the research he's done on having our course as an elective in various colleges, West Virginia, I guess College of osteopathy, various other places like liberty, university back there, everybody seems to indicate that that they're kind of looking toward Doctor Weil and what they're doing there as a template. I guess you'd say so they wanted me to ask you, Doctor Nario, if there's two things any way we can find out how this was done, A and B, if there's any way he would come on and speak to us?

Speaker 4  1:42:04
Yeah, I'll definitely, because I'm going to be going to Arizona soon, and hopefully I get the chance to talk to him. I just don't want to get, like, in depth into these type of things yet, because I need to pass my grades. I want to kiss be too much. So I'm definitely trying to get some more information for you guys on how this materialize. Now, it's like a big institution. It's actually part of the University of Arizona.

Speaker 10  1:42:34
Yeah, no, it's a solid course, and we're just looking to see if they can get some sort of elective play in various places. I mean, they're even talking about, you know, np programs, PA programs,

Speaker 4  1:42:47
something like that, yeah. So yeah, they are part yeah. They are also there. They're some of them are taking even nurses, you'd be surprised, but they're not taking the same course as us, no, but there are, there are for other health practitioners. They also have integrative, I guess, modules in classes for them

Speaker 10  1:43:06
as well. Yeah, I think that's what we're looking to find out any way to make inroads. Okay, yeah, appreciate it. Whatever you can do. Yes, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:18
Okay, thank you all so much. Have a great night.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:21
Okay, Kelly, are you still on? Are you going? She going, okay, all right, okay, everybody. Thank you so much next week. Stefan Hartman with his mother for more thrills, chills and spills,

Speaker 3  1:43:38
doing pull ups. Mom's gonna do pull ups, okay? All right, everybody, good night. Have a great night. We'll talk to you soon.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:51
Bye, bye, bye. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai