Bill Clearfield  05:54
How is everybody tonight? You

Bill Clearfield  06:03
good. Okay, good. Thank you. I was having a little trouble with my my computer, and there was anybody, were you able to see me before?

Unknown Speaker  06:17
No, no,

Speaker 1  06:18
okay, yeah, I don't know something with the camera so, but we're good now, right?

Unknown Speaker  06:24
Yeah, okay, good.

Bill Clearfield  06:27
Okay, I apologize for the background noise. It's the cats who was allegedly spayed, but it didn't take So once our speaker starts, I'll mute myself, and it won't be an issue. So okay, so how's the summer going?

Unknown Speaker  06:56
Anybody?

Unknown Speaker  07:02
Success? Uh, very hot. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  07:07
it's actually not. It's been pretty pleasant here, actually.

Unknown Speaker  07:09
So, okay, so

Bill Clearfield  07:18
we've our census has been down a little bit for the summer, but I guess that's to be expected. So anybody that's on here, if you you know a lot of lot of regulars, if you're at all interested in presenting anything, please let me know. So and if you're not, if you're new to it, you know that's okay. We only bite on Thursdays so,

Unknown Speaker  07:52
so

Bill Clearfield  07:54
And okay, so we'll hang out till our speaker gets here, and anybody else and I welcome you all. Thank you all for coming. And we got a couple of minutes left. I don't get so don't have our speaker on,

Speaker 1  08:15
and we'll take it from there. So just chill out. Cool. Cool, that's our okay. So,

Speaker 1  08:39
okay, gotta have PRF, 1228, okay, so,

Bill Clearfield  08:53
okay, so gotta have PRF is played or rich fibrin, or is that mean something else? So I guess Dr Collins says she's driving so happy

Unknown Speaker  09:08
Tuesday, we're doing good.

Bill Clearfield  09:16
Let's see, since we last saw you, we had the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association meeting in Vegas. Dr Quinn was not there, and it wasn't. It wasn't too hot, it was not the no shirt weather. It wasn't, really, wasn't too bad there. When was that? When did I miss that? Last Thursday?

Speaker 1  09:36
What? Yeah, ah,

Unknown Speaker  09:40
oh, boy. I need a better calendar.

Bill Clearfield  09:43
Yeah, it's, it's not, it's not like we didn't, we didn't let you know, like, 10 times, yeah, at least, at least, I know, but you know, we need, we need to hit you over the head, you know.

Unknown Speaker  09:55
Yeah, that's right. Send a car for me. I

Unknown Speaker  09:58
could have done that.

Unknown Speaker  10:01
Shoot, sorry,

Speaker 1  10:03
Where's, where's Dr Nario, I thought I saw him

Unknown Speaker  10:06
right there. Amir, is

Unknown Speaker  10:10
it gonna make him I don't see him here.

Unknown Speaker  10:15
You're not in the office.

Bill Clearfield  10:18
I'm not in the office. I'm at home.

Speaker 2  10:21
Oh, good for you. You go home early now. Well, today,

Bill Clearfield  10:26
I had two patients show up, so that's fine

Unknown Speaker  10:31
to recharge once in a while,

Bill Clearfield  10:33
once once in a while. So I'm not used to it though, you know, I sort of stammer around and make myself get myself in trouble.

Speaker 2  10:42
Hey, so I was just from home. I just came from Hawaii. Yeah, I get, I got my standing ovation from our integrative colleagues.

Unknown Speaker  10:52
Wow, we,

Speaker 2  10:55
we represented real well and brought a real integrative medicine up to the fold. So this was tomatoes at me and they didn't, or pineapples, right, which are like, harder and spikier,

Speaker 3  11:12
yeah, is there a recording of this at all? I'm

Speaker 2  11:15
going to ask them if the the other recording of it, but we got good responses, I'm inviting some over. We're gonna have some some speakers from their end, so we're gonna get some good engagement from our conventional

Speaker 3  11:30
docs. Well, that's great about how many would you say? Could you estimate how many were in attendance at the

Speaker 2  11:37
I think that was 100 100 days. Oh, wow. On the screen.

Bill Clearfield  11:44
Yeah, you you got muted. Dr, Nario,

Speaker 2  11:49
I'm sorry, what did you say you got muted? Oh, there. What do you say you got muted? Oh, no, no. Anyway, it was just a good turnout. You didn't have to get a rescue team from me, and gorgeous doesn't have to kick doors down to look.

Speaker 3  12:03
You didn't have to link up with Burgess at all. Video, no,

Speaker 2  12:07
it was so, yeah, it was so jam packed with activities. It was a it was a busy time in in Oahu.

Speaker 3  12:16
Now, what? What was the exact name, or the actual name of the

Unknown Speaker  12:21
meeting?

Speaker 2  12:22
So it's actually a conference of conventional docs. It's it's actually from doctors from the Philippines who are practicing here in the States and who wanted to share their specific fields of expertise. So it's a slew of conventional lectures. And yeah, I was the one, I

Bill Clearfield  12:42
guess you were, you were to stand out, right? Well, like a

Speaker 2  12:46
sore thumb, because I was talking about herbs and and supplements, and they're talking about prescription medicines, yeah, but yeah, we're gonna have, we're gonna get them over. We're gonna convert.

Bill Clearfield  13:00
You gotta. You gotta, at least, if you can convert one, right?

Unknown Speaker  13:06
You change the world.

Bill Clearfield  13:10
Yeah, that's, that's, you know, when I go to Noma, if I can convert one, then,

Unknown Speaker  13:17
then work.

Bill Clearfield  13:19
We've done our work. They. So I, like I was saying we, so I went to the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association Conference, which is also mostly conventional docs. And it's pretty stayed. It's pretty, you know, you know, I wouldn't say low key. I would say depressing. Depressing, until Thursday night, they invite the students from the Toro medical school. Oh yeah, here in Vegas they do, they do poster presentations, and then they give them awards, you know, the ones. So when the kids showed up, it became much more lively, you know, they were animated. They were, they were enthusiastic. They were, they were into it. They were, you know, they haven't been beaten around and, you know, and down yet. So, so it was. It became a much more, much more enjoyable when they showed up.

Speaker 2  14:18
So integrative, also that they presented.

Bill Clearfield  14:21
It was, it was, it was the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association and me, so I was you there. They did have one lecture on the microbiome. So some one of the doctors talked about the microbiome. So I guess there was, there was at least one other,

Speaker 2  14:43
alright, well, yeah, at least you're not selling something. It's not they want to make you buy stuff, because,

Bill Clearfield  14:51
well, well, they had a few vendors. So of course, there's always something to buy. And then there's the the rather aggressive skincare people who, you know, don't take no for an answer. And you know, this time they wanted me to buy one of their, one of these things that you lay in, and it'll give you a red light and blue light. And you know, it's special today only is 120,000 marked down to 100 Whoa, right? And they were gonna, they were gonna offer about six, six boxes of skincare products to go

Unknown Speaker  15:30
along with it. So when does it arrive?

Bill Clearfield  15:33
It doesn't. Close your eyes. What do you see?

Unknown Speaker  15:42
I see what you bought. You were not lured.

Bill Clearfield  15:46
I've already, I've already been, I've already been bamboozled enough. So,

Speaker 2  15:53
oh, there we have Johnny already kind of flashing the banner there.

Bill Clearfield  15:58
The Doctor Collins says, Don't buy anything esthetic until we talk to her. Okay, so might as well, might as well keep it in the family here, right? So, okay, so I'm not sure where our speaker is, and I'm on my I am on my phone, so I think I'm going to switch over to my computer, but I don't have a the camera doesn't seem to be working too well. So Dr, dr Nerio, can I made you to co host? So can you watch every watch over, because I want to see if I can find our speaker.

Speaker 2  16:39
Okay, you will let me present our Andrew. Well, tip for the day, while you're doing that, okay, he is gone, so Alright, well, let's do that then. So our Andrew, well, tip of the day would be so I this is more of, really something that I've learned in the in the curriculum, and I was curious about nutritional health and integrative medicine. So we're talking about me specifically self tic and Himalayan salt. For me, I was confused about this at the beginning, so maybe people are clear about it on their end, but for me, really so as you know, the difference is something that's pretty obvious sometimes, but sometimes it's really not. But how does this impact your health? So let's differentiate Celtic salt first. Celtic salt is a great colored salt, and it comes in the coastal regions of France, particularly in Brittany. It's moist, grayish and harvested from clay land Salt Flats. So Himalayan salt is mined from ancient sea salt deposits in Punjab region of Pakistan. It has a distinct pink color to it due to trace minerals like iron oxide, right? So I'm going to discuss that in a bit. But both are considered natural salt, but their origins give them unique mineral compositions and textures, and now this is where the difference lies. The mineral content, Celtic salt is higher, specifically in magnesium, potassium and calcium. It also retains more moisture and is lower in sodium per gram compared to table salt, pretty narrow table salt, Himalayan salt contains over 80 trace minerals, but in very small amounts, so it's drier, more crystalline, and often ground, grounded for shaker use. So from an integrative perspective, these salts may offer more than just flavor. They support electrolyte balance and can be gentler on blood pressure compared to process stable salt, but the key is still moderation, and we have some some contamination considerations here, also especially for Celtic salt, because it's actually has been criticized in some reports, says it contains potential microplastic contamination, given its ocean origin, versus Himalayan salt being from ancient rock deposits. It has less proneness to ocean based pollutants, but may vary impurity depending on the mining process. So which is better? So if you're prioritizing electrolyte support, Celtic or Celtic, maybe that's how they pronounce. It may edge ahead due to its magnesium content. If you're connect concerned more about ocean contamination, Himalayan may be safer, just make sure whichever you use, it's from a trusted third party, tested source. So basically, our takeaway natural salts, like Celtic Himalayan, can be part of a functional nutrition plan, especially when refined salts are removed, they offer trace minerals and flavor. But like all salts, quality and moderation are key. So one of the curiosities that I had in this lesson that we had was, how is iron oxide dangerous in relation to taking Himalayan salt? So it is dangerous in the sense that if you're going to be taking high amounts of this, and this is in an email Himalayan salt, but we're talking about very minute amounts, because when you talk about high amounts, you're talking about getting exposed to iron oxide through cosmetics, industrial settings and inhalation exposures will now actually result to lung irritation and even new moon, new pneumo, inflammation or lung irritation, but again, very small amounts in Himalayan salt. And that's why it's really, I guess, negligible in terms of the risk in relation to to issues. So that's our Andrew l Tip of the Day. And I hope that kind of shed light in our different salts that we have.

Speaker 4  20:44
Thank you. There is another salt that it's from Iceland. So one time at the conference, somebody at a conference, he said that he recommends we use Iceland salt because he said that that one is not contaminated.

Speaker 2  21:01
Interesting. Okay, I haven't heard much of that, but, yeah, that's nice to hear.

Bill Clearfield  21:07
Okay, I I'm back on the computer. Can you guys hear

Unknown Speaker  21:11
me? Yeah, yes, yes, okay, I don't know

Bill Clearfield  21:13
there's, there's a problem with my camera. So, so our speaker is available. So Doctor Sammons, there you go. Dr Jacqueline Sammons, we've we've had her one before, and you know, she's extremely talented in many areas, in medicine and and and elsewhere. She serves patients at the transformation Health and Wellness Center in Anaheim, California, educated in Southern California. We'll try not to hold that against you. Undergraduate Degree. It's Cal State University Fullerton. She earned a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine at Western University Health Sciences in Pomona, California, and She interned at the University of California, Los Angeles. She finished her residency training at University of California San Diego, before returning to Orange County to practice. She provides an outside the box problem solving approach to health and wellness, along with a unique mindset, she fused a human body as a dynamic unit. Patients health needs are not cookie cutter. One size fits all, and she aims to provide each patient with personalized plan of care. She studies a myriad of paths of healing. Philosophically, she believes each disease process usually rises out of an unseen obstacle in the body. Very osteopathic of you, dear. She sees the role of the physician is more of a facilitator of healing, rather than an administrator of medication, and recognizes the fundamental role of the mind, body and spirit connection. I'm going to cut this off because my cat is howling to the moon and probably making a lot of noise for all you folks. So Doctor Sammons, why don't you continue your introducing yourself, and I'm going to mute so we don't have to hear the cat. And thank you again for being with us. We it's always it's always a joy. Yes. Thank you so

Speaker 5  23:18
much. Thanks for having me, everyone. This is always such a fun forum to speak to. So I was trained traditionally as a just a traditional OBGYN in the hospital setting, Western care. If your periods are heavy, you get a birth control pill. If you're perimenopausal, you get a birth control pill. If we get postmenopausal, you should probably tough through that. We could use brisdal, which is Paxil repackaged, we could use some other alternatives, anything other than hormone replacement therapy. And I did that for a number of years. And certainly I had a few patients who would utilize hormone replacement therapy, but it was not their favorite approach, or our favorite approach as providers, as you know, the whi study back in 2002 sort of upset the apple cart, as far as what our understanding was of hormone replacement therapy. And so it's been very under we've been under educated as providers and under educated as a community of patients, as far as what these things can do to help our whole health. And so if you guys are part of aascp, I'll be speaking with them tomorrow about cardiovascular benefits of long term HRT use. So it's going to be a cool presentation as well. I didn't want to do the same lecture twice, so I, I got the gunner out of the closet, and let's let's go. So today we're going to talk about sexual health as an indicator for overall Whole Health. And again, this is something that it's very interesting in our society, having been a young lady for a number of years, it's we're very sexualized in the media. Obviously, the front of any Vogue or cosmopolitan, it's always about, you know, sex appeal and perfect skin and the perfect body. And we have to meet all of these standards. And two weeks after we have our C section, we're doing beach photos, and so we are supposed to look a certain way, and we're supposed to be very appealing to our partners, to the opposite gender, to the same gender, however we want to look at it. But then we're not actually supposed to want sex. We're not supposed to have sex. And so even as we enter those perimenopausal, menopausal years, or have other, you know, hormonal dysfunctions, other health dysfunctions, I hear just countless times from patients, particularly women, that, well, I don't want to have sex. I don't really have a good sex drive, but I feel really bad for my husband, and it really got me thinking like it's not about your husband, it's about you. You're not in your whole state of health than if you are not having a desire or a drive or satisfaction. Again, not because we're, you know, having to be driven by this necessarily, but we are sexual social beings. So if we're not having those vulnerable, ready connections with somebody in our lives, then it can be an indicator that something else may be going on biochemically. And so I think we need to have that spidey sense. And I think again, being not only very undereducated about hormone replacement therapy, but about how to discuss these measures with the patient in a very professional, non judgmental manner, to make it a comfortable environment for them to actually share what's going on in their relationship or lack thereof, and be able to say, You know what, since I had breast cancer and I had radiation, I just really have no desire. I mean this, I feel my body's mutilated. Or, you know, the medications themselves make me really not want to have intercourse. Or I don't know why I don't want to have intercourse, but since my breast cancer therapy, I don't want to. And then having that ability to pull it out of our provider heads and say, Yeah, because you know, chemotherapy actually can affect our drive, and there are ways that we can counteract that healthfully. So we want to be able to understand the health implications of good sexual health overall. Be familiar with how to screen for sexual health wellness. This was harder to find than one would imagine. I thought, Okay, I'm just going to look up self sexual health questionnaire or survey or guidelines, and just there's nowhere. It's nowhere to find so it's it was actually kind of challenging. So I put a few examples in here for you guys and become comfortable with discussing health outcomes of positive sexual health with our patients, because I think we need to bring it up. Is gonna be very uncomfortable for them to bring up. I think most male patients will bring up an issue of but I've had very few men actually come forth with a lack of desire that just a poor libido. It's almost like a sense of shame, like it's assumed that we should have good libido. And so now, if I say it, it's somehow a failure on his part. And so to be able to open that door, okay, do you have any problems with performance, Completion, arousal, desire, right? So it's very cut and dry. Just like, Do you smoke? Do you use alcohol? Do you use drugs? No judgment here. I'm just gathering information. Okay, so what is the sexual health definition by the WHO World Health Organization, which we can take or leave. Sometimes, I know we all have our opinions about the who, but it's as good a place to start as any. So it's a state of physical, emotional, mental and social well being in relation to sexuality. It is not merely the absence of disease, dysfunction or infirmity. And this really speaks to my particular mode of practice, as are most of my colleagues here in this forum, is that we're not just looking for diabetes control. I want to prevent diabetes from ever happening. We're not just treating hypertension. I want to know, why do you have hypertension? How do we alleviate the inflammation that got us there, right? So that whole health has more to do than just absence of disease. So that's a really important concept. In general, is kind of proud of the WHO for coming out with that. So again, that practice gap, which I sort of alluded to, is most sexual health surveys revolve around, what is your disease risk, what are your behaviors? Do you have multiple partners? Are you using? You know, barrier protection, what's your pregnancy prevention? What's your birth control method? And it's really interesting as I've come into this more holistic, integrative view, and ironically, as I'm in my post reproductive years now, the push towards preventing, avoiding pregnancy, birth control pills, hormonal management, rather than a celebration of us as vessels, to be able to create life, and certainly to manipulate that if it's not our appropriate timing or financial or schooling or relationship wise, or whatever like, I think that that's obviously within anybody's right to do. But there's very little in the way of like actually celebrating the development of families. Just interesting side note there and then it also talks about orientation identity. So how do you identify, what your pronouns, and this kind of thing? And again, those things I think are important, but it's not really answering the questions regarding sexual health, such as sexual desire, arousal, pleasure, satisfaction, and again, that ability to have a relationship with somebody, as opposed to just casual sex, which I was in another forum, I think, was a 4m and they said, if you just have casual sex, you actually have better longevity than if you've never had casual sex with stranger. I don't know, I haven't independently looked up that fact, but you can take that as you will. So the aspects for consideration, for female, again, is the relationship. Are we in a healthy space do I even like this guy anymore. we began becoming empty nesters. Our children are maybe becoming more independent, and now we're looking back across the coffee table at this guy, and I'm like, dude, who? Who are you like? When did you pick up golf? I don't even know what you like anymore. He doesn't know what I like because we've been so busy running kids to and from volleyball practice and paying a light bill that we haven't paid attention to how we change. When did you get that promotion again? So it is important to to really actively manipulate that relationship and work on that relationship independent of having a family or raising parents. Right? A lot of us have our parents move in with us, and we have to worry about their health issues and so forth. But taking separate time to build that relationship is so critical. Desire and libido is another faction altogether, arousal. So I might want it, but then, if I can't get these tissues lubricated, or they're just it's raw and hurting and tearing, it's just uncomfortable like that will kill a mood so quickly the ability to have orgasm. And interestingly enough, if you get into asking enough women, you'll find some that actually have gone their entire existence and never reached a climax. And so is there something precluding them from that? Had they gone through a, you know, a difficult, abusive situation as a child, some kind of assault? I think the last time I looked at statistics, upwards of one in four to one in five women have had some form of sexual assault. The statistics are terrible, and yet we overlook this in our practice all the time. We're more worried. Are you a never smoker? Have you had your mammogram? Right? We're not talking about these things and then pain free activity, right? If I want to want this thing, it has to be without pain, so I do not put my hand in the flame on my stove because that hurts. So I have an aversion to doing that thing because it hurts me. And so this can set up a psychological pathway where then I also just don't desire because I know if I do said thing, it freaking hurts. I tear, I'm bleeding. I get a bladder infection. Absolutely not, sir, it's it's a random Tuesday, you're on your own, I'm going to bed, right? So we have to consider those things as well.

Speaker 5  32:31
Okay? And then males relationship? What is their relationship status? And even if they're like, single and ready to mingle, that's okay. Are they in helpful, engaging relationships and conversations with their partners and so forth. Doesn't have to be a lifelong marriage, necessarily. That's true for either men or women, obviously. So even if they're 20 years old and everybody's dating like that's great, you still want to be in healthful, non abusive, consensual relationships. And that goes true for men as well, right? Men can be in abusive relationships also desire in that libido, ask the question that's not just about firmness and duration. It's about due desire. And then that climax, ejaculation side, one gentleman who unfortunately feels like he's just completing way too soon. And then it comes back to that conversation to have with the partner, but does she think you're completing too soon? Because again, in my experience, a lot of men feel like they need to go for three hours, and we ladies are typically done in about 15 minutes. We're tired. We gotta work tomorrow, you know. So dog needs to be fed. There's things going on. So again, the perception of what my performance is, or where I should be, or what's normal may vary from couple to couple, or relationship to relationship. Okay, so this is an interesting perspective health conditions that can affect sexual health. I think a lot of us sort of know this intrinsically, but again, don't necessarily make that association. But obviously heart conditions, blood pressure issues, Sleep Apnea is huge, especially for men, it will lead to erectile dysfunction. So if any man comes in and has erectile dysfunction, immediately ask if they snore, if they've had a sleep evaluation. We work with a company out here in SoCal that does home sleep studies. I think that that's a huge benefit than going to a sleep center, taking your blanking and your teddy bear and hoping you get a reasonable night's sleep, as opposed to like, hey, it's just a normal, again, normal Thursday, throw on the monitors, and then they get the data. I think it's much more true to life. Obviously, diabetes, obviously, can be a real problem with neuropathy, with vascular dysfunction, again, not feeling good about our bodies and so forth. We get highs and lows of those sugar which can make us irritable. So there's a lot of a lot of difficulty with diabetes, absolutely any kind of neurological disease or neurological neurological diseases, mental health disorders, obviously menopause and then a cancer diagnosis. We're scared. Our cortisol levels are all wacky. We're in fight or flight. We're in survival mode, for sure, like if we're in survival mode, we are not also in rest, nest and sex, right? You can't be in those two spaces at the same time. So cancer diagnosis can definitely affect our sexual health and desire. Oh my gosh, my partner doesn't want me anymore because I have this diagnosis, you know? So then there's a lot of self doubt and psychological aspect, as well as whatever the procedures were. Again, if you've had cervical cancer and vaginal radiation, that's a big deal, and that's changing anatomy. So there can be a number of factors that are going into aside from just, you know, Oh, I feel bad about myself because I have cancer. It's, it's way more physical than that, for sure, medications that affect sexual health. Again, I think this is something that somewhere we learned in second year medical school pharmacology, but don't really piece together or counsel our patients appropriately when we're prescribing them. So I prescribe propranolol, I wouldn't say on a regular basis, but I'd say two, three times a year, just for my patients who get sweaty hands, they don't want to do a ton of Botox injections there. So they're like, hey, what can I use? Or my speakers, right? My public speakers who have a little bit of stage fright or anxiety before they go on. Beta blocker is a fantastic tool. Anxiety before a plane flight. Great. Take 10 or propranolol, but it may affect your sexual health, right? It could bottom out your blood pressure to a point that you don't have effective engorgement of those tissues, diuretics, opioids, prostate medications. Statins is a huge one. It's one of the number one prescribed medications in the United States. Again, we can have whatever opinions in our integrative space about statins, but the reality is, they are largely prescribed and and that can affect patient sexual health, anti epileptics, and I don't know what y'all experience is with seizure medications, but it really changes how people synapse, piecing words together, the fluidity of their language. It really affects them in a number of ways, and so it's not surprising that it can also affect sexual health. H2 blockers. That one surprised me. I don't know what the mechanism is, but it can affect chemotherapeutic agents. Again, can cause their own neuropathies. They can cause their own issues just because of the chemicals that are being used. A lot of them are heavy metal based, so that can really make a difference. And then again, SSRIs, SNRIs, some of the most commonly prescribed medications out there have a huge effect on libido, and it's under counseled to patients. I'm not going to sit here and say that Lexapro maybe doesn't have a role or, you know, some of the other SSRIs, they can help patients who need those medications. But I think it's reasonable to say, well, now I'm a happier human, but I don't want to have sex with my partner. What's wrong with me? And so when we can come back to it and say, well, this medication, you know, preemptively, even saying, hey, this can affect our sex drive, then we can make more educated decisions about which medication to choose Wellbutrin, however, is one of our atypical antidepressants. It does not affect libido as significant. So that's one that can maybe be an alternative for the appropriate patient, antipsychotics and benzos. So, and I'm sure there's a litany of others, right? You know, muscle relaxants and sleep agents and whatnot, for obvious reasons, okay, but then conversely, right? If we just have a good, healthful sex life, if we've got good drive and good desire, good climax, we're satisfied with our sex life, we actually can improve cardiovascular health, improve diabetes, morbidity and mortality. So we're not losing kidneys, we're not losing toes, and we're not losing our lives because we have better sexual health, mental health prognosis patients do better who have depression, anxiety and even psychosis, types of diagnoses when they have a better sexual health, cognitive functioning and an overall sense of well being and quality quality of life, which, again, I think, as the traditional providers, we tend to overlook that overall quality of life right. We get all excited that we made this diagnosis, gave this right medication, yes, I won. And then we forget that they were on 20 more medications, expensive to them. They can't get to the pharmacy unless their son takes them, like so many things, that even though we got it right. We don't get it right because those patients don't have a residual quality being uniform. So again, that quality of life is kind of an objective and subjective measure. There are surveys that you can do for assessing quality of life, if you want to be super academic about it, which I don't think is a bad thing. I just am too disorganized to be able to handle that, but it's a physical sense of well being, emotional, mental, material, social, right? We're social beings and safety resources, living conditions. Again, if I'm an abuse of physically abusive relationship, if I'm living under a freeway overpass, and there are 16 other homeless people here who have weapons, no, I don't have great quality of life, and I probably don't have great sexual health here, and if I do have any sexual encounters, they may actually be predatory. So it's important to kind of dive into some of these more uncomfortable topics that we sort of think about being on the other side of wherever we are, right? If I'm in California, it must be happening in West Virginia. And if I'm in North Carolina, it's got to be happening in Iowa, it's not here, but it is happening just right around us in our own community. So important to kind of tap into some of that and make it a safe space for patients to discuss for sure. All right, sexual health and quality of life are integrative, related with each affecting the other. So again, the converse is true, right? Good sexual health means good quality of life, good quality of life, usually, then we're going to feel better about jumping into bed with our partner, because, like, yeah, baby got the bonus. Mortgage is paid. Kids are on bed. Everything's good. Everybody's healthy today. But if I'm running crazy and my kids got the flu and she's vomiting, you know, 14 times a day, I got to go sit in chalk, er, like nobody's having sex. We're not talking about that right now, right? So they do affect each other. And so again, here's what I was kind of alluding to. Well, I don't have a lot of desire or enjoy sex. I feel badly for my husband said, every woman in perimenopause or menopause, and we have to kind of take back our own health and our own normalcy. It is normal to desire sex. It's normal to want that arousal. It's normal to want climax and to be healthy and safe in that relationship and satisfied. So it's not about the it's not about the other guy. It's not about the other partner. It's about your own health and understanding how that understanding of sexual health tells me that I'm actually in a state of whole Okay, busy slides, guys, here we go. So sexual and physical health are due for the female this, this particular study that I have referenced at the end, went into some female health, male health, heterosexual relationships, homosexual relationships, normal aged adults, older adults like I think they did a pretty whole job. It was a meta analysis. And sadly, I think they looked at like 20,000 studies that were all smattering out there, and then when they kind of filtered it down of what they actually wanted, there were like 63

Speaker 5  42:23
and so again, it's very sobering that we think there's all this research out here in this realm, but they're kind of not, you know. So it's a really important aspect that we need to build so female sexual function positively correlated to physiological, or excuse me, psychological, environmental, social and overall quality of life. Female sexual function linked to health status and physical and psych components. The same was true also for pregnancy. But there was an interesting one. I don't know if I put it in here. For sexual frequency, they found that that was not effective for good quality of life in the postpartum period. I'm like, wow. We need, like, a whole study to say that out loud, that if my bottom undercarriage is torn up with stitches in place, I'm still bleeding lochia, I'm leaking breast milk everywhere, and I've been up every two hours cluster feeding this child that I actually don't want more frequent intercourse. Are you kidding me? Like, I don't know why we had to write that down in the study, but somebody did, so I'm excited that we at least have that data. So again, if you've got a postpartum woman coming in and she's like, Girl, I don't I don't want sex with this man ever again. In fact, if he never touches me again, I'm perfectly happy. There are reasons why, and it's pretty, pretty common for those you know, physical barriers to being able to enjoy that component. Also, when we deliver that placenta, we lose that massive amount of progesterone and estradiol that that pregnancy was holding. So we go into this relative abrupt menopause. Again. Nobody taught me this. This just came from years of being an obstetrician. And these women are coming in, they're having hot flashes and having vaginal dryness, and they they're, you know, night sweats, and they're just waking up drenched, you know, before they're even leaking milk, they're just horribly sweaty, and it's like, what the heck is happening? It's like, well, their estradiol levels were in the 1000s, and now they've dropped down to, like, 40. And again, if you're still breastfeeding, your estradiol levels will continue to be suppressed so you can continue to make milk. So yeah, you don't feel great at all. You feel like a 25 year old menopausal woman, and it's actually miserable. So I think if we know this as providers, we can then better counsel and foster our young women in as they're becoming parents and saying, Hey, a lot of these changes are normal. They're temporary. There's nothing wrong with you. And you can augment with a bit of vaginal estradiol, you can do a little topical estradiol, like transdermal estrogen. There are ways that you can actually navigate that time period for women to make them come back to more normalcy sooner. A decline in sexual function was associated with more menopausal symptoms. So again, that Converse. So of course, if I have a lot of menopausal symptoms, I don't want to have sex. But actually, if I actually, if I'm just not having a great sex life, I'm going to have more menopausal symptoms. So I think that we have to think about it, bi directionally, plus menopausally, sexual desire was linked to greater vitality. So we just, oh my gosh, the typos. I'm so sorry. So that's that's really important as well, because a lot of us feel like this decline during menopausal years, and this is an area where we can actually help offset some of that decline. Arousal and orgasm are linked to lower experience, excuse me, lower experience of physical pain. Sorry, I'm glitching. I don't even know if I'm having a stroke over here, so I apologize for the stuttering, but again, our physical pain is better when we have that release of that oxytocin and our epinephrine and norepinephrine, all our beautiful neurotransmitters that tell us that we're loved and we're whole. And this was a great experience. Then, yeah, the physical pain receptors are not firing at that moment. So it's it's a really cool correlation. And then women in same or mixed sex relationships with good sexual satisfaction had fewer physical symptoms and better overall health. So again, looking at those relationships as well, male sexual frequency and sexual quality of life are positive, positively associated with overall quality of life. So when men are having sex, they feel better quality of life, right? So that's that's good. And again, it seems very obvious, but I think when we're able to counsel our patients, that this is an obvious statement. So where do you stand on this, you know, on this kind of continuum, and help them feel okay and safe to discuss Ed and orgasmic difficulties or associated flow. Again, if I feel like I can't perform for my partner, I'm not climaxing. I can't finish. It's an exercise in futility, then, yeah, they're going to feel kind of that sense of failure, and I'm not enough, right? So again, opens that door for a conversation about, what is their biochemistry doing? What are some other factors increased satisfaction. Sexual satisfaction is associated with increased quality of life at older age. Again, a statistic that I think we often forget is some of the highest transmission rates of sexually transmitted infections are in our senior population and assisted living facilities, and it's usually like an eight to one ratio of women to men. So those men are just going visiting from one nice young widow to another nice young widow, and they're living their best lives, and they're transmitting gonorrhea and chlamydia and HIV and HSB and everything else. So it is important to ask even our senior patients, where are we at with sexual satisfaction? And some of them, quite honestly, their relationship has morphed into such that they have a very amiable companionship. Maybe she's got diabetes and he's got heart disease, and so cardiologists and endocrinologists have said, Hey, maybe sex isn't the best thing, okay, but they're perfectly happy. They're in a satisfactory relationship. They have that intimacy and vulnerability that may not be from orgasmic, penetrating intercourse per se, but still important to check in on what that relationship looks for sure, men with increased sexual health had a higher health related quality of life. So again, more physical symptoms and then sexual satisfaction was associated with better vitality. Okay, sexual function and health promoting lifestyles. Um, showed health behaviors are correlated positively with sexual function domains. Now, some of the wording on these things is something else, but what it's basically saying is, if we're eating well, we're hydrating Well, we're exercising regularly, we feel good about the person we see in the mirror, and we're doing these things for strength training, muscle mass, bone density, it is also going to contribute to our overall sexual health, not just because we see and see something that we like in the mirror, right? That you may never look like we did when we're 15, but some of us don't want to the acne. But that said, though it still leads to better quality of sexual health. So that's a good thing, right? Okay, sexual and psychological health, so kind of getting more into the psych realm of things, sexual satisfaction was correlated with vitality, and that was for both genders, higher sexual sexual function was associated with fewer psych symptoms and higher psychological functioning. Okay. So again, if you have anxiety, depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, individuals who had a feeling of like higher sexual functioning actually did better in general with those ailments. Women's sexual arousal had negative correlation with depression. Okay. So again, the wording in these studies, it's saying basically like better sexual arousal, fewer negative fewer depression symptoms, right? So it's an inverse proportionality. Same thing with orgasmic function for anxiety and depression post menopausal women. Positive correlation between overall sexual function, sexual desire, and overall psychological health. If you were in my talk last time, you know, we kind of discussed how menopause makes changes to the brain. We lose white matter, we lose gray matter, we lose our ability to cope. We are far more irritable. So things we used to put up with, like the socks on the floor and the dishes in the sink, it's like, oh my gosh, it's not feel whatever and of my family, and now it's like, are you guys kidding me? Like, the level of disrespect for you to leave this for me to do, right? So we don't have that ability and that filter anymore, and so it is a very, very biochemical neurochemical transition that happens in these perimenopausal, postmenopausal years. But when we have overall good sexual health, will have overall better psychological health will be able to have better coping, toleration and so forth, toleration, tolerance of our families we love so much, actually, men that sexual dysfunction correlates more with depression, and it's a chicken and egg thing, right? Do I feel poorly? Am I depressed because I don't have great sexual function, and I'm not performing for my partner, and I can't get in a relationship, etc, or is it because of the depression that I don't have good sexual function, like my boy is not working, I don't have the arousal. And again, we know of that phenomenon, anhedonia, with depression, that we just don't want to do anything that's fun. So even if you love golfing, now you don't want to golf. I don't want to go boating. It's too much work. I'll just sit right here on this couch and grow roots. And that goes for sex as well. Like if I have high depression symptoms, I may have no desire for sex, because nothing that's even fun for me normally is theming fun. Adults and older adults reduced intercourse frequency correlated with more psychiatric issues, and it was a curvilinear pattern with the sexual frequency. They found there was not a huge benefit beyond once a week. So at least that's a target you can say for your patients, like, hey, just have a date night once a week, you know, try to get an intercourse maybe once a week, you know. But if you don't have to be like rabbits, three, four times a day for God's sake. But you know, once a week is probably plenty

Speaker 5  52:09
increased sexual frequency, again, associated with higher well sense of well being, but not greater than once a week. Sexual satisfaction was inversely linked to psychiatric symptoms and hetero or homosexual relationships. Older women, sexual satisfaction had a negative correlation with depression anxiety. So again, women feel better if they've got better sex, sexual satisfaction. Don't have as many depression anxiety symptoms. In couples, women's sexual satisfaction was negatively associated with depression and the partners depression sports. So even just your, let's say it's a heterosexual relationship. My wife is happy, I have less I did that, right? So even the men in those partner relationships had fewer depression symptoms and lower scores when their woman was happy. So that's interesting as well. Our health plays off each other, and then men their satisfaction had a negative correlation to anxiety specifically. So that's interesting. So again, is it the oxytocin that's released? Is it that calming hormones, neurotransmitters that maybe have something to do with it? I don't know. It didn't say in the study, life satisfaction and well being are correlated with sexual health. And then married women that sexual quality of life is associated positively with happiness and life satisfaction. So when I'm feeling good in the bedroom, you know, I'm feeling pretty damn good about all of it. You know, we gotta wait half an hour at Olive Garden before we get seated. I don't care. I'm good. Everything's good, right? So we just have a better sense of happiness when we're satisfied. Okay? So here's a couple of surveys if you want to, like, snag grab these guys, sniff them out. This is very easy. It's just five questions, right? Because the last thing we need is one more goddamn survey. When you're doing PRP and we're doing stem cells and we're doing extra oil patches, and what's your family history? And again, are you a never smoker trying to get any insurance reimbursement, which thankfully I don't have to do, but just five quick questions, and it's just opening the conversation. Are you having any difficulties with your sex life? That's very vague compared to the details that we just talked about. That's super vague, but if they're answering yes, tell me about that. Like, what does that look like for you? What do you mean? Well, you know, my wife hasn't had sex with me in three months. She sleeps in the other room because I snore. Wait, you snore. So again, opening the door that maybe we need to be doing a sleep study and so forth, so it can really give us insight into what else is happening, right? Do you have any questions? And so forth. So this is a pretty good, very basic tool. Here's one that's a little bit more in detail. Again, if you're research type person or you just love data, data, data, these are really cool. Gives you a scale one through five you answer each of these questions. Honestly, I feel like I'm back at, like, you know, first step boards with a 17 dash one, and then you've got one through five. Like, I've got to do math. Absolutely not, but I put it in through here for completeness sake, and then there. Here's a couple of other indexes that you can look up. Again, I had a little bit of a hard time finding a PDF or a good like printable resource. I'm sure it's something that anybody's office staff or yourself individually, could re type, just if you get the actual questionnaire. But again, just there are tools available. This has been done. You don't have to reinvent the wheel, which is nice. Okay, so other factors affecting sexual health, chronic disease, I don't feel good. There's a study that I always laugh at. I think it was out of Harvard, and this was, like, really close to when I was in medical school. So I went to medical school with dinosaurs. Actually, it's been like, you know, several 1000 years, but they had a study that showed that if you have chronic pain, you're more likely to have depression. Well, yeah, if I wake up every day and my pain scale is six to seven out of 10, and I know there's no way out, I'm always going to feel this way. I'm never going to get any better. I'm depressed, just thinking about it, and I don't even have those symptoms. So it's, like, so silly that we're putting, like, dollars of funding behind these things to state the obvious. You know, hey, the air is good for you, and you should breathe on a regular basis. But chronic diseases do affect sexual health, because either from a vascular standpoint, a neurologic standpoint, or just an overall sense of well being, I don't feel good today, babe. I'm just super nauseous. I can't even lay flat without wanting to vomit. I can't fibromyalgia. God, just don't touch everything you touch me is just hurting. I'm not wanting to have sex. If every place you touch me, I have a trigger point. So really, having an empathy for these patients who are going through chronic disease, understanding that that is a very typical correlation to their sexual health. It may affect their sexual health and that there are ways to get through it and improve socio economic adjustments, right? So if you've gone from living in a beautiful four bedroom, three bath, two story, whatever Pool Spa, and now you're in a one bedroom apartment because of some horrible financial disaster. I mean, think about the fires and the Palisades and everybody in North Carolina that got decimated by, you know, the hurricanes and, you know, eastern Tennessee and so forth. Yeah, again, not wanting to have sex when I don't know how we're going to cook. I don't have a stove. What are you talking about, right? So when we have these other life stressors that put us into a fight or flight state, we are not rest nest, digest sex, right? Being in a consensual, healthy relationship can impair our sexual health if we are not in a good, healthful, supportive, consensual relationship. I think those of us who are in a really healthy relationship, we kind of forget the fact that there are some very, very unhealthy relationships out there. There can be manipulative individuals, abusive individuals and non consenting. There's sex trafficking everywhere around us. Again, these things are happening in our communities, as much as we'd like to believe that they're not so important to try to work those questions into the conversation and then, conversely, sexual health can affect chronic health conditions. So when we have good sexual health, we see better cardiovascular outcomes and so forth, better psychological improvements, better emotional health, ability to cope, you know, make social connections and overall quality of life.

Speaker 5  58:20
Okay, so how do we help? Right? So fascinating. But then what? Right? So the basics, right? Go back to lifestyle changes. These things can do immense benefits for our sexual health. Again, not just because we look in the mirror and I feel like my biceps look fantastic, right? But, girl, I'm working on my shoulders. They're looking good, not gonna lie. But aside from that, it's that I feel stronger. I feel more vital. We're building testosterone and DHEA when we're working out and lifting heavy. I put hormone replacement therapy under lifestyle and natural things that we can do, because you're really only replaced. For women, you're replacing the thing that our ovaries no longer produce because we are no longer reproducing. So it's helpful for maintaining that tissue integrity overall, and it's going to help prevent injury when we are exercising. It's going to help prevent abdominal adiposity. This is a number of things that HRT helps with, aside from hot flashes and night sweats quit smoking, it leads to vascular disease, and you're going to have erectile issues, right? Plus you smell that. You just stink. So stop, right? Not to say I haven't had a cigarette, here and there, but just in general, we want to avoid that activity. Alcohol as well, leads to suppression of sexual drugs makes us snore more, which, again, leads to more Ed and other sexual dysfunction. It's inflammatory in general, you know, and it really prevents arousal and climate, it delays those things. So again, if you're an early arriver, if you will, like early ejaculate, then maybe a little bit of alcohol might help to delay that a bit. But I wouldn't use that on the regular, because it is a very toxic tool, obviously, illicit drug use and then do some stress management. I oftentimes tell a particularly Mom, I have mostly women in my practice, but I do have about 20, 25% on men. But for my moms, it's like, don't sign up to be PTA president, and you don't need to be team mom and sew the banner from scratch after you've woven the fabric. Like, stop volunteering now, if you want to participate in the church potluck, go bring a fish. But you don't have to organize, right? And a lot of us, especially when we're type A we're like, Well, if I want it done, I'll do it myself, and I can get it. I can do it. Just because you can doesn't mean you should. There's a lot of yard work I could do, but I don't want to do that anymore, so I pay people, right? So it's a matter of understanding how you can eliminate some stressors. If your mother in law is super caustic, stop going over to visit or make a deal with your partner. I'll go visit her once a month, but we're not spending every weekend over there. At least I'm not you want to go, by all means, I will stay here with my crafts and hobbies, right? So building those boundaries out that I don't need to go and be in a stressful, argumentative encounter with somebody maybe you like, but I don't like you. Go ahead, but I'm not going to hang out with those friends anymore, because I don't feel great when I do, and that's going to give you some less stress in your life. We can't avoid all of them, right? You know, we still have the mortgage on the first of the month, and it can crash the car and like those things are just normal life, course, but when we can eliminate certain things, do that counseling and again, either couples counseling, individual counseling, sex therapy, specifically, that can really help. And again, especially in our our empty nesting. Kids are more independent, years reconnecting, and even if it isn't a counselor's couch to say, this is our dedicated time on Tuesdays. At 2pm is our time we're connecting. And then eventually you can graduate from that counseling and get to lunch at 2pm and then you're in bed at 2pm and having a new so you know, it definitely can grow from there. But if you're just dedicating that time to one another work and previously, it's like, who's making dinner? I'm taking kids to volleyball. We're over here. We're over here. We're over there. We just had volleyball tryouts this last and it's been a night no sex was happening as we were doing volleyball. Oh, my God, um, planned dinner. Course, put a different schedule, Christ, we put everything else in there, right? So we've got Bible study, and we've had all the things and the PTA meeting and the back to school night. And so yes, date night with partner, even if I don't leave the driveway and we just make out in the front seat, I don't care. That's fine. Have that connection time. You are important enough to me that I have penciled you in and I mean it, and you've dedicated that time to one another. I think that's really, really important. And a relationship assessment, sometimes you just don't like that anymore. Like, you've changed this. We don't have the same likes. We don't have the same goals. We got married, my first marriage, I got married at 17. By the time we were 30, it's like, Dude, I grew you didn't, and that's okay. And he's now 52 and still living at his mom's house, and that's fine. You're okay to do that. I don't need to be with you to do that, right? So having that kind of real self reflection. Who am I in this relationship? Now? Are you in this relationship? Now? Are we still loving each other? Maybe, if not in love anymore, like that super wild passion, but like, I really like you, and I think we're great together, and we have similar goals, and then you build off of that platform, right? But sometimes we lose sight of that Sure, and then it can here we go, some medications, right? So. HRT, yes, I said it again. It is that important. It's really, really an important tool for us to be able to use, both men and women. There are so many endocrine disruptors and God bless. RFK, I hope you can get a lot more work done with the FDA, with medications and with environmental pathogens and hormones and what the hell is in our water and chem trails? Again, pick a rabbit hole, right? It's not to get political, it's just the reality is, we are inundated with things that affect our Hormonal Health. I think we oftentimes forget that they are named sex hormones because they are made in the sex organs, but have benefits around our entire bodies, just as thyroid hormone is named because it is built in the thyroid, but has receptors in our whole bodies. So we understand that about thyroid, we understand that about insulin, but we don't understand that about sex hormones globally as providers. So we need to start making that understanding is that, yes, hormone replacement therapy, good for sexual health, but also good for overall full health, Viagra, Cialis, right? I mean, if we're like we love that that human that we've partnered up with, again, hetero or homosexual relationship doesn't matter. Love that person, but I just I don't have the firmness, I don't have the duration that I need. I can't get the job done. Okay, then use these tools right when safe to do so. Make sure that you've screened them appropriately for heart disease and so forth, and the headache that could follow and whatnot. But definitely a tool. Lubricants. No shame in that again, if the issue is friction, carrying rubbing irritation, lubricants can be really, really cool peptides. These are really great, particularly for my young men who maybe have a testosterone insufficiency, but want to make now Lewis is so I think it's just interference, but want to maintain fertility, right? So they want to maintain sperm production. Then, kiss hepton and the latitan can be really, really simple, so something to explore. And then, you know, again, exploring different things. Again, what you liked when you were 25 and newly married you may not like now, so little sexual exploration, tools, devices, toys, literature, what they call now, there's a new phrase, literature, right? So kind of our smutty romance novels, no shame in that visual like whatever, we need to kind of build on that relationship. And I think doing that with your partner, instead of sort of sneaking away into the back room and doing these things on your own, but saying, No, you can be a part of this, like, this is part of the fun, right? Part of the fun of being in a new relationship is the pursuit dating, and, oh my gosh, should be asked me out again. And, you know, all of these fun aspects, we sort of lose that when you're sort of expected. I mean, same guy keeps showing up every night, I guess he's staying and so we lose some of that desire and drive and like that excitement and so bringing some of that back into your relationship, I don't think there's any harm in advising your patients now, again, advising our patients of that when their hormones are corrected as well, right? So if the woman is tearing Every time she's trying to have a relation with her husband or her partner, and you're like, Girl, just read porn like that. You're not addressing, right? And it's very dismissive and condescending. So we want to make sure that we're really addressing that whole health, but we really need nothing off the table, right? That these things also can be very beneficial to a relationship and to having that whole sexual um, there's no right or wrong answers. Okay, so a little bit of discussion is just imperative to include this sexual health as part of their API, part of their review of systems. The more offer often you do it in your practice, the less uncomfortable it becomes, right? It's instead of like giggling like a bunch of 13 year olds in sex ed class. It's like, no, that's just part of my intake. I mean, I ask patients all day long about water damage to their billings. Do they have any leaks? Do they have any black mold exposure? She could be there for a total menopausal I'm having hot flashes and night sweats, and I want to kill everybody in my household. I got you. Do you have any leaks? And I will qualify that by saying I don't think what you're going through has to do with mold. I ask all of my patients, right? So you can even follow up some sexual health questioning with, I'm not implying you're having an issue. I ask all of my patients, this is one of my normal screening questions. And then it's like, oh, okay, we'll just, of course, everybody asks it, and how's your hydration and what are your bowel movements like? So you move on to some of these other aspects just as much as you would ask, what do you do for work? So you can figure out environmental toxic exposures.

Speaker 5  1:08:15
But the tools above that I listed, you know, those couple of questionnaires can be a great segue to opening that discussion, so that then, when they've already answered questions about their sexual health. You now asking a follow up question is not out of turn. It's like, well, of course, I just filled out a damn survey about it, just like I filled out my medication. How long have you been on the statin? How long have you had diabetes? Okay, you said you don't have sexual satisfaction. When did that start? You know? How long has it been going on? Etc. And the more comfortable again, you are discussing sexual health, safer your patients will feel. And I think that there's nothing more honorable to us as providers than when a patient can feel safe to be vulnerable. So many times, I have patients just apologize to me because they break down into tears. I had a gentleman, a 75 year old gentleman. He's like, I love my wife. I have a beautiful life. I'm financially stable, like I have everything I could possibly want, and I feel weak. I'm not sexually interested, like and he started breaking down into tears. He's like, I've never told anyone, not even my wife, for 45 years. So to be able to create a space where he is feeling very safe and okay to cry or to show emotion, and know that the automatic knee jerk response on my end is like, oh, shit, crying Lexapro. Like, here's anxiety. Ah, you need benzos. Like, you know? And so many women are afraid to cry in my office because they're like, great, I know she's gonna think I'm depressed. She's gonna think I'm a head case, and it's just, I'm just done, I'm tired, I'm frustrated. And so being able to identify those emotions say, I know these are uncomfortable emotions. We all feel them from time to time. I understand why you're frustrated. I understand why when your body's changing, you don't feel good. And so it makes us very vulnerable. It's okay to cry here, that's all right. We're gonna get you figured out. We'll make it okay. And if somewhere down the line, that means a prescription for Paxil, then it means a prescription for Paxil. That's not a failure either. But for that to be the automatic response, which it is by most western providers, can be very frustrating and daunting for our patients, for sure. So that's it. It was kind of a quick one, because again, out of like 25 20,000 studies, there were only 63 that actually got filtered into this. But I thought it was a lot of good, very dense information, but a lot on the same theme. So I'm hoping that this helps.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:40
Okay, well, thank you. Oh, you're back, so I'm back. Yeah, I, I know you were, you were a little hesitant to take up this topic. And, you know, sometimes we lose some participants in the, you know, in the interim, but you know, it's, it's a part of life, and it's part of what, you know what we all deal with, especially those of us that deal with hormones all the time. And does anybody have any questions? I don't think there's a whole lot in the chat. Dr Nario, if anybody, yeah,

Speaker 6  1:11:26
I would ask also, what about like doing meditation sessions or yoga or getting into higher consciousness, where you can help the people souls evolve? Yes,

Speaker 5  1:11:35
yes, 100% I think, you know, just very centering activities. Tai Chi is another one. There's a number of things that you can do to really refocus and have that introspection feel very grounded. Get close to green things, you know, all of that. And then again, the more you can do that with your partner. I think that it brings a Connect, a mutual connection. We're sharing that energy. And I think that

Unknown Speaker  1:12:00
that's, it's like Soul enhancement. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:03
yeah, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:08
Yeah. Good. Good point. Absolutely.

Speaker 7  1:12:11
Can anybody hear me? John Burgess, talking, yeah, we hear you. John, Hey, man, that was very cool. Cool lecture. Thank you so much. Dr Sammons, I can't make my video work and other things, but at least we're talking, I'm still on the Big Island, and I did meet with the integrative guys here. All they, let's say 90% of the discussion they had here was orgasm, orgasm and more orgasm. And it's just on their mind, big, big, I never heard anybody talk so much about orgasm, but they're all in there. They're on that run right now. So this is very timely, and the only other thing they talked about were med beds. Are you familiar with those? Doctor salmon?

Unknown Speaker  1:12:58
No, what

Speaker 7  1:12:59
is that? It's like a big tube bed thing. You get into this enclosed and they use quantum energy to restore tissues. Here they believe, here they believe you can regrow limbs using this. And if you do it on Wikipedia, it'll say, half conspiracy theory, half real. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:13:23
Is it like a Rife machine, like the rife type of frequencies, or something similar?

Speaker 7  1:13:29
I have no idea. But even the there's a news agency that announced a bunch of information yesterday on alien spacecraft, that type of thing. I don't know if you guys have heard about it, but within the next but within the next 12 months, they plan to release a lot of this information. Even the government, because they're caught, they can't hide it anymore, right? Yeah. So it deals, but it also deals with the quantum elements and the release of zero point energy, there are already machines designed to create unlimited energy from zero point. So the quantum, the quantum energy, the zero point and the alien connection is to be released big, big time in the next 12 months, most of the military information that's been, you know, just quieted down for a long time, is coming out, and the underground bases, they're going to start about, stop, start talking about that too. Anyway, that's all I heard here. Was the med beds and the orgasm so, very timely,

Speaker 5  1:14:49
perfect. I have a book here called Rainbow hell, something about the rainbow, the invisible rainbow. There it is. I've got it. And it talks a lot about the electromagnetic frequency, you know, fields that we admit and so forth. And I think that it used to be understood like in the 1800s kind of when it started, and then as we got into more of the synthetic, petroleum based medications in the 1920s 1930s it sort of fell out of favor and became very like voodoo, which doctor this is not a real thing. So I think we really lost a lot of our understanding about our connection to earth, our connection to EMF, our connection to one another, and it's there. I think that we just don't fully understand it. So I always say, you know, what was snake oil 150 years ago, is now common medicine, common knowledge. And then, you know, same thing will be true 50 years from now. So I think there's a lot of just growth to be done

Speaker 7  1:15:48
in the I was in the military world 50 years ago, and we had all of the and I'll say at least 20 years before I was in we had the underground military bases that were half for human being and half for aliens. I have been in those bases. I can say that now, because they're starting to release this information, but it's been known a long time, but it's been suppressed ever since oil started making money. Yeah, the but the alien connection is really coming out now, and it's very real. And the people who have been releasing the information are the military guys retrieval they've been picking up spaceship retrievals, right? Flying Saucer retrievals, and I was involved in that too, also 50 years ago, but it's been absolutely suppressed, along with the other things. Like you're saying the zero point in the quantum but within the next year, the government plans to release a lot of this information. Wow, yeah, if you didn't know that, yeah, big grays and little grays, right? Yeah, big grays are the real ones. The little grays are bio robots. So what they had in the underground base where I was were the three footers, and that's basically my understanding, bio robots. But all this will be coming out.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:26
Alright? Right. John,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:29
I'm still weird. Bill,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:32
yeah, well, that's okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:37
okay, there is a question about so we're getting a lot of praise in the in the chats. And there was a question here about a workup for a menopausal, 70 year old female with a history of thyroid cancer 30 years prior, a total hysterectomy.

Speaker 5  1:18:00
I just gave a little little response there, but I do the same hormone workup that I do for patients who are 50 and just newly menopausal, or 40 year olds who might be perimenopausal. So I'll check my estradiol, LH, FSH, progesterone, total and free testosterone, D, H, E, A, S. I like to check thyroid hormones at the same time. So I do TSH, free t4 free t3 and then you've got to follow the glucose, right? A 1c, fasting insulin. I like to check AST, Al T, and I didn't put that in the comment, sorry. And then also MTHFR and a homocysteine to see what is their methylation ability. And I think that that's a good broad first start. And then we've seen that even for this individual, let's say that she's, you know, really needing something chronic, UTIs or recurrent UTIs, vaginal estradiol, pretty much universally, is safe. Anybody, anytime, any onset after menopause or implementation after menopause is safe to do they're actually looking at removing the black box warnings on these products. So I usually do just a fingertip full, just a little blip, you know, like you do toothpaste right at the opening, once a night for two weeks, and then two nights per week thereafter, indefinitely, until I go toes up and when I'm in my coffin, please pack my vaginal Ester dial with me right next to my rosary beads. Like I'm not leaving it at home, so make

Bill Clearfield  1:19:31
sure you leave it in the will. So yeah, exactly. Oh, it's going leave it. Leave it with the instructions.

Speaker 5  1:19:35
That's right. So you can definitely start there very, very safely. And then for other women who are in their 70s, let's say it's frozen shoulder, chronic back pain, cognitive decline, any of these other aspects, I will still feel comfortable because of my knowledge base and experience that I'm okay starting them on a little bit of via screen, or a low dose estradiol patch, maybe 50 milligrams of progesterone, if she's had the Tah does she need A progesterone or not? Not necessarily, but progesterone and estradiol work as very close sisters, so they do have very symbiotic benefits with one another. So you may want to still start her on progesterone. Particularly she's got sleep disturbances, nocturia, anxiety, night sweats, these kind of things. Progesterone can be a super huge help. And then I'm really strict about following levels for my patients every three to six months, depending how stable they are, because I don't want them overshot. I've been introducing more testosterone to my patients as well my lady patients. And again, usually the dosing there is two and a half to five milli two and a half to five milligrams per day, and I follow levels to make sure that their levels are somewhere between 40 to 70. We don't have to get crazy. Ladies. Do not need a testosterone level of 300 right? We're not men. We're not trying to be men, but it will give us a sense of vitality, mental clarity. It helps with vascular disease. It helps with muscle maintenance and muscle mass. So there's a lot of benefits to that testosterone as well. Vhe super, super important for brain maintenance, as well as being, again, the baby brother to testosterone. So he's another little Bob the Builder. So a lot of benefits there. Even if she's 70. We just want to advise her that from the existing literature, which I'm going to bitch about tomorrow again, if you're with AAS CP, I have plenty of words to say about it. Even with shitty hormones, people still do really pretty well. But there is documented as like, an increased risk of cardiovascular outcomes, so heart attacks and strokes, if starting hormone replacement hormone replacement therapy after 10 years of the onset of menopause, or over the age of 60. Now, the reason I put hormone replacement therapy is in air quotes, because they're using, like in these studies, they're using oral conjugated equine estrogen and oral medroxyprogesterone acetate. So it's a progestin, and it is conjugated equine estrogens, which is muddy estrogen, right? So it's estradiol and 14 of her closest friends, neighbors, Ephron enemies. So these are all, all of these different subtypes of what should be just pure estradiol are affecting receptors very differently. And so conjugated equine estrogen is not the same as like, just estradiol, right? It's they're not the same. And we also know through multiple studies that transdermal approach is far safer than oral approach, so you will have fewer of those cardiovascular VTE stroke events when you use a transdermal application of estradiol to an oral and now again, tomorrow, Yeah, tomorrow, in the conversation I'm going to talk about there's another reason. Well, not that recent, but only recent to me. It was 2016 but I only just found out about it, that the use of vaginal estradiol actually cuts down on cardiovascular and stroke mortality. So you may still have a heart attack, but you're not dying of it, all right, I'll take that for a win. Stroke, not so much. I mean, just croak it. I don't want to have a stroke, but heart attack, yeah, come back from it. It's because the vaginal estradiol is having a benefit with overall inflammation. It's reducing the amount of bacteria that can get seeded into those coronary vessels because of recurrent urinary tract infections. So it's saving lives, just if you use nothing other than vaginal estradiol. Interesting,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:30
yeah, I'm actually a member of the British menopause society. Believe, of all things nice, okay, and it's, it's rather interesting, the contrast they hold that you know any, any female over the age of 60, no hormones at all. And the rationale is that it's, according to them, not a question, that cardiovascular disease is increased with the use of estradiol, or they say estrogen, so I'm sure it's a equine estrogen and and progesterone is rarely ever prescribed. It's, it's, it's not, you know, it's not, not available in the National Health Service formula.

Speaker 5  1:24:20
So it's tough to weed through the literature, because they use progestin, progesterone and progestergens all the same. It's all the same. And so even if you're really actively trying to educate yourself and you're reading the literature, they don't delineate what the chemical structure differences are. And so you really have to have a passion and a drive to dig into have somebody just point blank tell you they are not the same thing progesterone acetate is not progesterone, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:24:52
It was the same here 15 years ago when I started doing this. But you know, it's been cleaned up some since, if I just may add to your workup, I always do an estrone level. And we do vitamin D d3 it's 25 hydroxy vitamin d3 we get a pregnant alone level and a prolactin and and a sex hormone binding globulin. So and I always get, I always get, for everybody, at least once, I get the thyroid antibodies, antibodies, I'm not sure where, where you are, but where I live, it's like an epidemic around here. And I'd say at least a third of the patients who come to me, new patients come to me, have positive thyroid antibodies and don't know it,

Speaker 5  1:25:42
yeah, even if they don't have overt thyroid failure, yet, it's a big indicator. And if you're going that far, then I would also check a vitamin D, because if you've got low vitamin D, you're going to have higher thyroid proxies, antibodies, if that is an issue, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:25:57
And and then, you know, if they do have positive thyroid antibodies, there's, there's precious few who know what to do with it. They just say, well, there's nothing you can do about it. That's that's a whole nother lecture,

Speaker 5  1:26:08
for sure, for sure. But also, if you guys are curious, like a shameless plug, I've put together a menopause seminar for individuals who are maybe new to hormone replacement therapy. You're scared of it. You don't really know how to follow levels, or what normal levels look like, or how to prescribe like. It literally goes into the nitty gritty of actually, how to write a prescription for these things, how to make a relationship with a compounding pharmacist, and so forth. So I do have that on our website. Please give us a follow at transformation health today on Instagram, I'm trying to get up to 5000 followers this year. It doesn't mean anything, like I don't get paid for it, but it's just fun. It's a nice goal. And then I'll be speaking at something called the Fit Expo with the esthetic immersion this weekend at Anaheim Convention Center. So if anybody's local, I'm going to be speaking to very similar topic, and it's an open panel, question and answers as well with another provider who specializes in sexual health and well being so, it should be a really cool adventure. And then we're going to be out in Vegas in November.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:15
Okay, great.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:20
High, cheap. Oh, somebody asked about a high GPO, so I don't know if we want to get into that tonight. Do you have any, any you want to, you want to you want to tackle that one? I mean, that's a that's a whole two hour. That's a two whole lot.

Speaker 5  1:27:35
I simplify things because I'm not that bright, so I like to just make it super simple. Give vitamin D. So when we can get their vitamin D serum levels optimized to about 80 to 100 you will see those thyroid peroxidase antibodies come down, and there's multiple studies that demonstrate that. I'm sure there are other ways to do it as well. I've heard vitamin C, E, A, like, there's a number of other things, but I keep it simple. I tell my patients all the time, I'm a directed minimalist. I'm going to tell you what things you should take, but I'm going to try to keep that a very streamlined regimen, because the more complex we make it, the harder it is to sustain. Um, it gets expensive. It's convoluted. Fix their vitamin D get out in the sun, take a vitamin D supplement. Particularly if you're not living on the equator and you're not naked in the, you know, yard for three hours a day, you need to be on a vitamin D supplement. So I go back and forth. I've been doing 50,000 per week for like, a while, all the way from covid, because then you can do a vitamin D hammer with any viral illness of like 50,000 per day for three days straight, the beautiful antiviral regimen. But I've been going back more to, like the 5000 a day, and I'm seeing better serum responses to that. Interestingly, we,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:43
yeah, we usually, you know, look at it, for every 1000 units of vitamin D, that the blood level should go up by about eight points. That's a pretty good rule of thumb. What

Speaker 5  1:28:59
was that? How soon after would you recheck?

Bill Clearfield  1:29:03
Oh, you know, we're kind of busy, so ideally we like to check in six weeks, but it's usually three to four

Speaker 5  1:29:10
months. Yeah, that's about what I do. I'm like, let's give it a chance for work. You know, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:14
as far as high TPO, if you want my two cents, well, first of all, we want to make sure that the thyroid function is adequate. We want the free t3 in the upper third of the normal range. So 3.4 to 4.2 we like the TSH between 0.8 and 2.0 we use something called we use plant steerulland, which are the from the fat of plant, and they actually act like Pac Man in your system, and will, will decrease the thyroid antibodies by about 50% within a year. And so if you're, you know, not too, too high from normal, you're, you're, you know, you're so the the one lab, zero to nine is normal. The other lab, the big lab, is zero to 34 so if they're the zero to nine is about 12 or 13 or 15. We can usually take care of that pretty quickly. The So somebody asked an example of plant sterilants. We likely use modicare usually twice a day. And it comes there's a number of different companies that makes, makes that makes it Do I think Hashimotos is increased as a result of covid. I don't know. It's rampant around here where we are. I think we were downwind from where did all the nuclear testing was done in the 50s, 60s. I think I had something to do with it, at least in where I live. My second line, my next line is low dose Naltrexone. We use a lot of that, very low doses, though, zero to three, 3.0 milligrams. Usually that's the top the thyroid is very sensitive to naltrexone, and we usually end up, if they're on thyroid replacement, usually end up having to decrease it because it will improve thyroid function. We do. We the last year or two, we've been following Stefan. He's not on tonight. We've been doing iodine levels, and we find that like, like he said, we're probably about at least 60, 65% of the patients that we screen for iodine are low, and even if they have autoimmune disease, we will replace it, and the that's the next line, selenium, 200 micrograms, twice a day in the literature, will will reduce thyroid antibodies by about 40% and black cumin seed oil is kind of our another go to, and that'll decrease the thyroid antibodies by another 15 to 20% that usually covers it Pretty much. And so that's what I do. Okay, the spike protein. What did you have there? Dr Simmons,

Speaker 5  1:32:10
oh, somebody said, is that, you know, did covid increase? Hashies? And I said, Yeah, you know, I think the vaccine as well. There's just something about that spike protein that's caused a lot of endocrine issues. I think there's a lot of autoimmune I think we've all heard about the white clots, you know, this kind of thing, strokes, heart attacks, sudden death. But I had quite a few 2021, to 2023, people with new onset hashies, new onset diabetes, one of my poor patients, she had just gotten diagnosed with new onset diabetes about four to six months after she had pretty significant covid, and she recently passed away from full blown stage four cancer, unknown primary, just her whole abdomen was riddled with it. And, you know, just turbo cancer, like again, and I'm a little tiny practice, right? My practice is just an Anaheim Hills, real small subset of Anaheim, you know, greater Anaheim area. And the fact that I see it, it's like, if you extrapolate that out to a whole population. We're seeing quite a lot that spike protein is something else for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:09
Yeah, Dr Collins writes, in teens increase in insulin resistance too, increasing. So

Speaker 5  1:33:17
there's that too. So when I'm seeing insulin resistance, I'll oftentimes also check a leptin. It's a really good opportunity to talk to our teams about, you know, keto, carnivore, slash paleo, type of nutrition, how important it is for them to implement these lifestyle changes. Now, I think that we in that took me about 13 seconds to verbalize and sometimes just us verbalizing it, rather than relying on mom or dad. Leptin, yeah, leptin. And so, you know, Mom's gonna say it, but it's just noise in the background, because mom's just quacking. And I know this because I am a physician, and I have a lot of knowledge, and I still know nothing to my teenage daughters, I know no things. I can't cook, I can't do anything, right? So very normal. But I think that if we take that opportunity to advise teens. These are the things you should eat, whole natural foods as they come up out of the earth. The less processed, the better. Cut out gluten, cut out sugar, processed sugars, especially ignore the frappuccino that I'm still continuing to drink from this morning. So doing the best we can, and you'll see that insulin resistance reverse, also heavier lifting. Again, don't go crazy like you don't need to raise a 14 year old to be a power lifter or anything, but definitely lifting, strength training, cardio exercise, get them out side and off of screens. And there's nothing more frustrating than we want to take our screens away from our kids, and then they have homework on their iPad. So getting them outdoors, getting them out of their hoodies into a tank top, into a sports bra, go outside. I don't want to see you. Come back when the lights are on, that kind of thing. You will see better insulin sensitivity with these things. And now the American Academy of Pediatrics, as matter of fact, has actually approved tirzepatide for the use in kids as young as six. Sadly, it's because our obesity

Bill Clearfield  1:35:07
that's great crazy, because

Speaker 5  1:35:09
the childhood obesity rates are such that we need that tool. But I think from an integrative medicine standpoint, we now know that it's safe to use. So for a lot of my kiddos, I use micro dosing. It helps with their inflammation. It helps with tissue recovery. I use it for my volleyball player. I give her, like, one and a quarter milligrams every two weeks. It helps her stay, like, kind of in fighting shape, so she gets better tissue recover. Her knees don't hurt again, volleyball player, so her knees are trashed. So it helps her with that, and it helps her with focus and concentration as well, because the brain inflammation goes down, and let's see abnormal leptin again, it's, it's just one more tool to say, hey, we need to eat more protein. So if our leptin is elevated and they're already exercising and eating well protein, focus protein. Before you work out, make sure you're getting, you know, 80 to 100 grams of protein a days of protein, protein, protein, protein. And that's going to help stabilize that blood sugar, so it's going to keep you from having big peaks and troughs, and it will help with that leptin sensitivity. And then you may want to look at something else, such as water damage building or SIRs Epstein bar like there again, we get into that other nether world of other kind of chronic inflammatory disease processes that may be triggering a lectin issue or insulin issue, not so much because there's a lifestyle issue, but because their receptors suck. So we're not getting a cellular response because the cells not reading it. So we make more, right? We keep making insulin because none of the cell receptors are appropriately shaped, or what happened. So can be something to think about.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:50
Okay, all right, great. I got the CME credit link there in the chat, and it looks like there's a link, something about zero point and new tech and alien basis.

Unknown Speaker  1:37:06
Hello and welcome to Reality Check. So I don't know what I hit there. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:17
And Dr Burgess says that Hawaiian push for orgasm is linked to Kundalini. So I know when you when you asked, you asked about present. Thank you for bringing presenting this topic. Those of you that went, we're at our live shows and conferences in Reno in 2020 and 2021, if you remember Monica Jane, our sex therapist, she was always our last speaker. And

Unknown Speaker  1:37:43
it was it was

Bill Clearfield  1:37:44
it was it was it was pretty interesting. We only we warned the crowd ahead of time if they were going to it was going to be uncomfortable for them. So we got lots of kudos in the chat here, and thank you. We'll we'll see about getting as many as we can to visit you tomorrow night, Dr farsh group and again, let us know where you're speaking. You said you're going to be somewhere in November.

Speaker 5  1:38:16
Yeah, so I'm thinking about doing the esthetic immersion fit Expo in November in Vegas, their very first pilot. One is this weekend at the Anaheim Convention Center. I'm not sure if they have a live web link, but I will send that link to you, Dr Fairfield, and then you can submit it to everybody. And you know, feel free to join in. But they're really cool. They're talking about EMF suits and different like all full health so physical health peptides. I'm going to be speaking about sexual health and wellness. So a number of different topics. It's not just like, oh, it's only peptides, or only stem cells, or only this, or only that. So it's going to be very broad based, which is cool. And they're actually filming a movie that's going to be released in November in Vegas, so that's when premiere is. It's going to be really an awesome, awesome wave, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:06
Great. And we have the IV vitamin C conference coming up at the end of October in Clearwater, Florida. We have that one coming up. We're still hopefully, hoping to be on on par for the middle of November, the weekend of November, 14, 13th, 14th and 15th, here in Reno for a live show for for at least the locals here, if you want to come, and we'll stream that too, we'll expect you to be be available for something on that. We'll get you some more information as we nail that down. We got two venues, we're still strong arming, and then we're going to get that put together, and we're partnering with Noma and Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association and the Nevada homeopathic an integrative medicine Association also. So so we'll have that coming up next week. We have Sharon Houseman Cohen, who is DNA, a genetics expert, and will be speaking on, she'll be speaking on

Unknown Speaker  1:40:21
genetic stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:24
She, I think she's the medical director and an intelligent DNA, x, x, x, something like that. So, you know about that? You know what that? You know he probably met her somewhere along the line. So, so that'll be next week. And like again, anybody who has got any, any type of topic you'd like to bring up? Please let me know. If you have anybody that's, that's, that's a speaker, that that's, you know, part of our, part of our sphere. Let me know. I recruited a couple of students last week at the from Touro for the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association. I don't know if they were on tonight. If they were welcome. I'll find out when I get the census later, but they brought a lot of energy. You know, we were a bunch of old, old, old fogies there, until they showed up, and then all of a sudden, the place livened up. So anybody else have any comments or questions. Dr Quinn is still there. How's, how's the research group going? Yeah, I'm

Speaker 3  1:41:30
still here. Absolutely. Great lecture. The thing, of course, I like the most about as she was talking about lifting heavy things from muscle. You know, that's, that's what I'm all about.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:40
We had a

Speaker 3  1:41:43
Benton on Saturday that was pretty much taking up the entire time. And I think there he's going to try to get a hold of you, or we're trying to get him connected with you to talk one evening. Very interesting topic, very interesting.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:58
Okay, that's what we did. You know, you know where to get me? Yeah, exactly. Okay. Tomorrow night, Dr Sammons will be on with Dr far she is group. And you know that we're, you know we're that those are our best bros. And on a on a rather little bit of a sad note, those of you know who Joel Peterson, you know my right hand man. He's had some health issues, and unfortunately, his father passed away last week. So if you have his contact, if you don't send some condolences. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:30
yeah, thanks. He was on Saturday. He

Bill Clearfield  1:42:32
was on his father passed away. Thursday, Thursday morning. Yeah, so, so And on that. Dr Nario got anything, any any questions in the chat, or any, any final comments?

Speaker 2  1:42:50
Yeah, there's some interesting comments here it was. They were saying that they were on the on the email they were expecting, oh, we're going to get some hormone recommendations here. But you know, this is really, that's really a big twist that you gave to this topic, that sexual sexuality and hormones does not mean medication, especially when you a type of doctor like you who would present it this way, but it sounds like you're focusing more of the non hormonal psychological aspects of Sex. And also it doesn't mean that you have to use testosterone. It has to be you checking all the boxes about psychological connection and even the emotional, spiritual side of everything. So that's why this is actually a good eye opener for everyone there, that sexuality doesn't mean that we're just going to give you testosterone, progesterone and estrogen. And I see this a lot when I see cancer patients, because cancer patients have a lot of these sexual problems, especially after therapy. As you mentioned, they go through a lot of changes when they do chemotherapy and radiation and body especially body image changes. So every Yeah, majority of these patients actually are so insecure about themselves because of the scars, the surgical procedures that they went through, the weight gain, the weight loss. And this is something that we also address in cancer care, and that's why, as part of the recommendations, vaginal estrogen is something that's recommended, even during cancer therapy, for these type of patients to experience sexual connections again and for them not to be deprived of this right of of every human being. So that's why this is, again, a good talk, just putting out there that it's not all about hormones. And there are other people who are benefiting from such discussions, especially for these types of patients. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:44:51
thank you for that. And you know, and certainly you know, I, like I said, I have plenty of lecture material and so forth about hormone replacement therapy. I love hormone replacement therapy, but even case on point, not a cancer patient, but I had a paraplegic. She was injured in a car accident. They initially took her off her hormone replacement. She was like in her early 50s, maybe late 40s, took her off HRT because they were worried about VTE initially, after the accident, she fractured her spine and whatnot, so she's immobile, understandable, right? So again, newer evidence says maybe evta is not increased with HRT, but I think that's a fair removal, right? But since then, she had been unable to get any provider to check her hormone levels, and their answer was, well, you're paralyzed. You're not having sex. Why would we check? And I was just blown away. I'm like, wow, wow. So a sense of vitality and vigor and mental health and overall general health maintenance of tissue integrity, even if I'm not going to tell her that hormone replacement therapy is going to get her walking again, I'm not making that claim. But can we preserve the rest of her tissues, please? Are we just going to watch her slowly decline into nothingness with no interest, no desire. There are other ways to have intercourse than the traditional intercourse of again, male to female penetration. So there's other ways that we can help augment her quality of life. And the fact that they just wouldn't even look at it, it's very disappointing. So yeah, if we can sort of bring it from a multitude of facets to have patients reach into their whole health and again, understand how that sexual health plays into their overall health as well. That's kind of the message I wanted to convey.

Speaker 2  1:46:36
Yeah, and if we even have discussions with cancer patients about self pleasuring, because the oxytocin, the dopamine, definitely brings in a lot of healing factors here, in relation to, again, boosting that immune system to fight cancer. So this is a topic that's kind of taboo in society, but we, as us as being practitioners, being open about these types of discussions kind of makes it more out and being more acceptable to not only society, but also in the medical field, but again, labeling somebody who only has the right for sexual pleasures, for if you have two hands two feet in a normal looking body, that shouldn't be the stereotype of this discussion. And you would also see that the biases of using hormones when testosterone FDA approval for for women is only for, I guess, hypo libido, low, low libido, right? Hypogonadism,

Speaker 5  1:47:31
that's transitioning, right, if you're transitioning gender,

Speaker 2  1:47:35
right? That too, that's a new one. I mean, that's a new one, not a new one, probably. But again, that's just the bias of using testosterone in these populations women. They definitely have more benefits in relation to just using it for libido. So even that needs to be changed in the stereotype type of society and even the government that they should understand that as men, needs testosterone. Women, they do as well, not only in those highest doses, as you mentioned, but definitely they need to look into the different aspects to maybe consider FDA approval?

Speaker 5  1:48:06
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. And it's interesting, you know, I kind of have this joking conversation with my husband all the time. It's like, because he's my sounding board. Poor guy. He's an HVAC guy. He's not even in medicine. And, you know, I'm like, so the men that are getting these prescriptions for Viagra and Cialis, who are they having sex with? You know, and 220 year olds is not the same as a 40 year old, right? So they're having probably intercourse with their age matched relationship partner, who has dyspareunia, a horrible ripping, tearing, recurrent urinary tract infections. Her tissues are falling apart. She's got a frozen shoulder, and she can't have hormones, but you can have Viagra all day long. It's like, Come on, guys. Like, let's even the even the playing field here, and make our women back into full health. Men don't lose their testosterone at age 50. They're they should be reproductive all the way to the great, right? I mean, Ben Franklin was having kids in his 70s. That's normal. We have a lot of those endocrine disruptors, as I alluded to, so that men's testosterone is much lower. I mean, I see 28 year olds who have a testosterone level of 270 it's ridiculous. So there are men who have this hypo testosterone production, but, but it's just so much more than that. About testosterone, or excuse me, tissue integrity and wellness and vitality and vigor, which is very hard to quantify. There's no lab test or vitality.

Speaker 2  1:49:26
And that's a good sales pitch for your business, if you

Unknown Speaker  1:49:31
record that. So I can put it up on the we have

Speaker 2  1:49:34
a it is recorded, yeah, if you're treating the women, get the husbands in there so they can catch up with this too. So it has always to be a pair, because they're going to lead the other one behind. You don't want to be the one left behind. Oh, 100% yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:47
You can go on, you can go on YouTube and see my seven minutes at the androgen society when that they gave me for testosterone for women's clinical applications, I got seven minutes. I love it. It's on, it's on our YouTube channel.

Speaker 5  1:50:05
So seven minutes is enough for an office visit, right? So, well, plenty.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:12
So, so, so with this person that you, you, I'm sure you were the one who did all their hormones and started balancing them out. Then, yes, yes, I was going to say, if you said you couldn't find anybody to do it, send them. Send them. Send them to us. Dr Nario, and I will take care

Speaker 5  1:50:27
of it. For sure. For sure. No, I'm not shy about it, but I love having this forum where we can have these conversations together and shoot, you know, shoot problem patients off each other and say, What? What would you do? You know, I think that's so important.

Speaker 2  1:50:39
You'd be surprised. I'm having conversation about lubricants and vibrators with patients. Sometimes I know myself, my own education, like, really, there's something as such. Give me a notebook. I'll write it

Speaker 5  1:50:49
down. Oh, yeah, for sure. No. The the things I learned from patients is just remarkable. So I learned this one from patients. I don't know if you've heard of this tip. So with the estradiol patch, or any like topical patch, if you have sort of a sight reaction to the adhesive, you can spray Flonase, because it's just Fluticasone, it's a little topical steroid. Spray it on half hour before, and then apply your patch, and you won't have the reaction. Get out of town. One of my patients taught me that. I'm like, what? Because she loved her patch, but she was having a little redness, and so fixed it right up. I'm like,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:26
Yeah, I always remember, I think I've told you, Dr Nerio, my first anti aging patient. I'd gone to my first a forum weekend, and when I came back, I was, you know, big stuff. I knew everything there was to know. And, you know, we lived in a small town, and somehow it got around. So this lady came, she was 58 years old, and she told me, had to fix her because she was getting married to a 40 year old and and, you know, we had, we had to get her in shape so she could keep up with them. Love that. So I don't even, this was like in 2003 I think, or 2004 I don't, I don't even, couldn't even tell you what we what we did, I'm sure it's nothing like what we would do today. And she came back a couple six weeks later, and she was okay. And then I didn't see her for about a year and a half, and she came back and she was really she looked like, you know, death warmed over. And I said, I said to her, so what happened? She goes. It was no good from the start. On our wedding night, he made me throw my toys away, and it's like, I'm I'm holding my ears, and I'm saying, Mom, you didn't hear this. My mother knew what I did for a listening.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:40
Yeah, that's red flag Central, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:44
That's everything, not her toys.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:46
That was two, that was 2003 and I still remember that one. That's one of those ones you don't forget.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:51
Oh, absolutely, my goodness.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:55
So Okay, anybody else? Doctor, Henry, I got any other any others there? Or

Speaker 2  1:53:01
no, that's it. I'll just get a speaker for or toys. Okay, you gave me some ideas.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:07
Now I got you some ideas. Okay, all right. So, okay, everybody. Thank you so much. Thank you. Dr Sammons, as always, we'll see you again tomorrow night, and we will definitely have you back. You know, I always say that if you're if you're competent, and we, you know, if we ask you back, and you know, if you're no good at it, we don't, we

Speaker 5  1:53:28
don't call. So I appreciate that. Thank you. You know,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:31
it's like anybody, anybody who has any, any yard work or something to fix something around the house, I only get asked once. Yeah, never get asked. I never get asked the second time. That's

Speaker 5  1:53:42
the trick. You want to do it poorly enough. They never ask again. Yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:47
All right, everybody. Great, great, great talk. And thank you all for your participation and your interest. Please bring one friend so we can, we can, you know, keep growing our little group here and think about we'll try and get nailed down the the venue and start populating for a live show in November. Okay, and that's not it. Anybody else have any comments or questions? We'll we'll pick it up. See you again next week with Dr Cohen.

Speaker 1  1:54:25
Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai