Unknown Speaker  00:44
We are field medical group

Speaker 1  00:52
that you with the pink glasses be that would be me. Wow look at you and those shades were when did you start wearing those?

Bill Clearfield  01:01
My secretary got these are they actually

Unknown Speaker  01:05
prescription or is it Tara now they're

Bill Clearfield  01:07
just readers you know they're like to 2.75 I think

Speaker 1  01:12
actually complements between your shirt and the purple of the molecule.

Bill Clearfield  01:19
Am I disgraceful hat?

Speaker 1  01:21
Yeah, so listen, you're populating now with people coming in. Do you need to give me screensharing ability or do I have it already?

Bill Clearfield  01:28
I think you should already have it.

Speaker 1  01:30
So we'll just see what Yeah, it looks like I do. So I can start off full screen or not at this depends on what you want. I took all of the Logos because I got their their requirements for CME so I took them off of the slides. I don't have backdrops without them. So you're gonna see me if I'm there, but that's not

Bill Clearfield  01:54
your cute enough.

Speaker 1  01:58
Yeah, but I got these regular glasses. I need red. I think that's

Bill Clearfield  02:02
just somebody I think you should sort of make it the official reading glasses of the group here.

Speaker 1  02:09
Yeah, well, you know, everybody gets different color, but maybe the shape could be unique like round just perfectly round ones. I take that styles coming back in but I always remember that. There were only some guys who could get away with round glasses and they were usually the same ones who could get away with a bowtie. You know what I mean? Just you got to feel comfortable in your own skin and those were two appendages actually. Anyway, Ready when you are just, you know, we don't count on how many people are with him.

Bill Clearfield  02:39
We've had anywhere from 30 to 70. And

Speaker 1  02:42
do people hear us now just gabbing? Yeah, they can

Bill Clearfield  02:46
hear you. Alright, so usually we just chit chat till at least five or a couple of minutes after five and anybody has anything they want to discuss or bring up. We have a whole contingency of folks from the Philippines now. So So

Speaker 1  03:06
you mentioned that you haven't heard yet. So you had mentioned that and I have a personal assistant who's based in the Philippines and he sent out your flyer perhaps to a few more people. So I'm curious about who that group is and why they're interested in AI.

Bill Clearfield  03:22
I see. We have a few folks already on from there. Good. So

Speaker 1  03:28
I'm gonna hush up should I should I share my just first screen without me? Um, it's just

Bill Clearfield  03:36
yeah, I mean, you can if you want. Usually I said we usually we're, we're

Speaker 1  03:42
I'll wait with you until I hear the office. Yeah, like so.

Bill Clearfield  03:45
I you know, we'll we'll introduce you and, you know, we'll try to make you sound good you know,

Unknown Speaker  03:55
for a few minutes he lets me know once you're ready you

Bill Clearfield  03:57
know, since since we're the pecs badboys anyway we can we can we can we can stretch the truth a little bit so well, you know, I

Speaker 1  04:05
I didn't write the press release there. You did but I saw you excerpt certain things from at least my website. So you keep it around.

Bill Clearfield  04:15
So I try to correct the grammar if I if I find some grammar issues.

Speaker 1  04:21
Here's the interesting thing you chose to link to one of many talks I've given but one I gave in 2017 in California which was part of the Emerald Cup as soon as California had recreational cannabis use like kids and get it as soon as they had recreational cannabis. That was the first Emerald Cup of that year it was coming up. So

Bill Clearfield  04:45
so what is that? I don't even know what that is. What is it? What is

Speaker 1  04:48
well, California has traditionally for decades had to competitions for cannabis breeders and growers. And that's one called the Emerald Cup based up in Northern California near the Emerald triangle, the other called the Cannabis Cup, but the focus of each of the groups I found is a bit different than Cannabis Cup was all about how concentrated Can you make a given plant for THC? And so the highest awards the best recognition came from the newest strongest while the Emerald company focused more on balances perhaps between cannabinoids and terpenes things that gave what most people thought to be a more rounded or balanced experience. So anyway, the the Emerald Cup have people who were the nuanced growers up in parts of those those mountainous areas and on the right sides of where things are and they've been growing there in clandestine ways for decades. And I know some of them and they trust me as a doc botanist. It has nothing to do with anesthesia. It's just as a there's a there's a doc that knows something about plants. So I had some people here who visited like you to see the tropical stuff. And they said, Oh, we ought to have you come out and see what we grow. So I did and I was invited to give a talk there, but because it dealt with prohibition, not in California, but with what California had done the federal prohibition. So if you looked at the name of the title in there, it had a subtitle because it dealt with prohibition in the USA and the subtitle was red tape, white lies and blue laws. I thought that gave sort of a patriotic slant to the federal budget.

Bill Clearfield  06:38
That's actually pretty, pretty, pretty. Pretty catchy.

Speaker 1  06:44
It was easy for me to remember Yeah, anyway, but it's years ago, you know, that's Fox going on eight years, Florida said. Thanks, keeping me interested for 10 and I'll That's why I'll start the talk just to show people where I am on the other side of the country because it's just now getting here many years after the West Coast started this. Anyway, I'm gonna just turn my camera off or it is off actually, until you tell me we're ready to begin.

Bill Clearfield  07:09
Okay. And so I hope everybody is enjoying the Last of the Summer wherever you are. I am in Michigan with my grandchildren this week, to oldest one's birthday, so it's cool in the morning and quite warm in by the afternoon. And there's lots of stuff going on here. We went to a renaissance fair, we went to carousel fair. So we've been doing all sorts of fun things. So and I Fred have our things back home and if they fire still going

Speaker 2  07:52
2% pain. It's 92% contained. Okay, good. Thanks for surveying more tomorrow. Again, so actually put it out. But the real question I have is what happened? To the Eagles?

Bill Clearfield  08:05
Well, actually, they've reverted to form is what sets my beers

Unknown Speaker  08:09
got beat so but they look better so

Bill Clearfield  08:11
they reverted to for what we did. We did good for 59 minutes and 37 seconds. Last half. Yeah. But that's actually pretty normal. ever followed them for more than six months? You'll know that the you know, winning is a winning is a fleeting thing with them and throwing throwing things away. is normal, right? Pretty Pretty, pretty much the norm Oh,

Speaker 2  08:46
my White Sox are going to set the record for most losses in modern history. So so that wrong record though to have

Bill Clearfield  08:54
some Yeah, well, that's the that's actually the Phillies, the baseball Philadelphia baseball team. They have more losses as a professional team than any any team in the history of sports.

Unknown Speaker  09:05
damn proud of it. Anyway,

Bill Clearfield  09:10
so Oh,

Unknown Speaker  09:11
where are you in Michigan?

Bill Clearfield  09:12
I'm outside of Detroit and Southfield. Oh, sounds good. I

Speaker 2  09:16
used to go there and say it's a puncture train Hotel. Back in the 70s when I did WB Donner Corp there.

Bill Clearfield  09:25
Yeah, I don't know if it's still there. So yep. So anyway, so tonight, we have Dr. Jeff block. And Jeff is an anesthesiologist and he's a award winning botanist and I've been to his his property and it's truly amazing. And I think we put some of the some of the if you ever feel if anybody ever looks at it, like some of the videos and things that I put on the emails, I think we had some of his properties there. And he invited me to his home last April when we were in a MMG. And it was truly a you can't believe it, you know, it's this actually somebody's home. I mean, it looks like a museum. So Jeff's gonna give us updates on cannabis cannabis and the kind of cannabinoid system. I'm not sure the folks in the Philippines if what the status of cannabis is in your area. You can, you know, chime in, you know, as as we go along. And it will, you know, I think it should be it should be a fun night and we should be able to learn something. And those of us you grew up in the area era of Reefer Madness, where, you know, it was it was all bad. You know, we've learned again, you know, what we learned in medical school about cannabis was wrong, along with just about everything else. So Jeff, if you're there, out there, Jeff.

Speaker 1  11:15
I go. There I am. Hi. Hello, everybody. Let me just get my talk going.

Bill Clearfield  11:23
And so, can I make you co host? Yes,

Unknown Speaker  11:32
you can. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  11:38
Joe, I don't see Joel on here. So I always like to have a backup. Okay. So.

Speaker 1  11:46
Okay, can everybody see just sort of a blank screen there in front of you? Yep. Oh, good. Well, good evening from Miami.

Speaker 1  11:57
I've given this talk not the same talk because obviously the nuances of the change of proposed legislation, particularly here in Florida, we have coming up in November for the not the first time a ballot initiative constitutional for recreational cannabis. So it's very much in the news every day for people look for and against. And it obviously has a commercial interest driving it. So I want to speak this evening with you about what we've called the evolving cannabis space. From medical research and education to decriminalization and regulation. They're very different things. And obviously, only certain aspects of this involve the practice of medicine. So thank you first for letting me speak to you as physician healers, people interested in the therapeutics because it extends beyond what allopathic Doc's in particular like myself and MD are trained at least osteopathic osteopaths I believe, have a better education on how the body integrates with its environment. And here's the tip off. It's all about endocannabinoids and how they work. So while I will spend some time describing the basic sciences reminders are for those people who don't understand it. correlating that with the history and yes, I don't think we're many people from Reefer Madness era, but we're certainly all practicing if you're an older senior doc from even the the onset of the Controlled Substances Act 1970 versus 1937. But we've got about 85 coming on 90 years of federal disposition on this that impacts what physicians are or are not taught. So we have some obligatory commercials here. These are the AP test stations. And there's one really interesting one down toward the bottom, these are standard for AMA CME approved con content. And it says if I'm discussing any product that is off label I will disclose the use or indication in question is not currently approved by the FDA for labeling and advertising. So my answer to that is all schedule one which is what cannabis or marijuana is now are by definition off label so I I think just about everything that I say you can take with that grain of salt, however, they're mostly talking about THC and in this case, I have not received any commercial income and I hope that gives me the privilege to speak with you about what is coming, which is the DEA is announcement about rescheduling. It's more so the HHS and the White House which since 19 Since 2022 has been tasked on looking at this again and I'm going to show a few slides later on just quick video clips of a few of our Surgeon Generals, the nation's top doc whether MD or do and give you a sampling of how they've sort of adjusted and changed from being some for some against most of them without any particular slant one way or the other, but only recently looking at the research and now speaking differently because of potential rescheduling. As Bill said, I do know about plants I hybridize and breed but what you won't find at my place is anything illicit but this is me with some of my plants in the greenhouse. So extending the talk to this plant. There's a classical picture, marijuana or cannabis sativa anybody who tells you otherwise for species names is simply wrong. This plant has been around with documentation by humans for over 6000 years. Archaeological evidence going for closer to 10 to 12,000 years. And it was found in parts of the world where it originated from in Asia off of the eastern slopes of the Himalayas that 10,000 years. ago, there were very few very special areas called refugee, which would be warm and wet enough even during the ice age for certain animal and plant species to survive cannabis as well evidence to have come from that side of the world. And so we look at it from different guidelines of how the FDA and the DEA two federal organizations regarded and they're notably different safety and efficacy is something that's looked at for the Food and Drug Administration. And while traditionally we think of that, as far as pharmaceuticals and drugs, cannabis has tried to also have impact as a nutraceutical. So that the guidelines and standards for the pharmaceuticals which are lower for newer new nutraceuticals could work their way into common manufacturing. So this is where the FDA gets it sort of stuck. In the middle while the DEA looks at risks and benefits and then they have authority actually through appointment through the Department of Justice to classify things is either prohibited schedule one means you can't get it if you do it's a crime versus controlled substances schedules 234 and five for those of you with the DEA license. And those are things with progressively less generally considered dependence forming addicting side effects. So that that's really the guidelines, but the actual definition then for schedule one, which is what we're talking about today is that a substance has to have a high potential for abuse, no currently accepted use for treatment in the United States, by the way that's specific there, and then a lack of accepted safety under medical supervision, which is rather challenging to do when the threat of a doc perhaps losing their license from violating the DEA is guidelines here happen so that's not really much evidence and number three there, but certainly the first two have been looked at as differently in the last for the most part, seven years, but I'm gonna go back a little further talking about the history for a moment of some other plants. And here you have opium and cocaine, both of which you're scheduled to. And yes, cocaine is actually used as pledge it's of a liquid for ear, nose and throat surgery because cocaine as a local anesthetic is unique in that it's also a vasoconstrictor most other local anesthetics don't faze her constrict. So for no surgery, it's sort of getting to for the price of one and do people really get you know, VITAS done cocaine when given that way, maybe to a little extent that that anesthetics for people and I, I could sort of see the way that it balances out perhaps some of the other sedative hypnotics that might be given as a sedative. But even cocaine is scheduled to now other plants can include tobacco. And there's the one plant that is responsible for more preventable deaths globally by far than any other plant we'll talk about. And then right here in my own backyard, Dr. Clearfield saw these last year chocolate and coffee if you don't think those have dependents forming features to them because of their chemical content, but their last three year old part of our culture. So getting right into things about cannabis. This is from a little over 10 years ago in Florida. It shows a doc with a badge they're saying Florida Medical Association of which I'm a proud member, but I wouldn't be proud of what he's saying because at this point, my mom who was still alive it looked like her a little bit who could say hey, you know, how about can I get some for pain and the doc says, no, no, we get unintended consequences. And study prescribes Oxycontin. And that knee jerk response was something that was sort of driven into doctors for prescribing for pain for many years. And even the federal government from Jayco or the Joint Commission's guidelines, were wanting our patients to come out of there with smiley faces in their evaluations in pain, gives those frowning faces with the little tear. So people actually prescribed and practice according to those types of systems. But a few years later, it's come out that actually and this is going to be a repeating theme tonight science and reason really do matter. So remembering that phrase, the first supporting science about endocannabinoids how the body actually works, became really powerfully apparent to me in a paper from 2013. And it's a paper from the NIH called targeting the endocannabinoid system. And this artwork is not directly from the paper. I'll show you the cover of that paper in just a second. But the message in the federal government's evaluation of cannabis at that point said that it needs focused research. What does that mean? Well, if you're gonna think about the endogenous endocannabinoid system as natural, that's fine, because it is it's inside us. We all have it. You need to know how it works. Its mechanism of action and its purpose. But if you're going to think that cannabis, because it's natural, naturally helps us, that's another entirely different subject. So I encourage you to first understand the mechanism for how the body's own cannabinoids, which have been around for a half billion years, cannabis as a plant has only been around for 90 million years. So it's a blip in time that this plant is found through trillions upon trillions of genetic reiterations a way to interact with a lipid based receptor system. I'm emphasizing lipids because that's really what's unique compared to other systems and it has controlling features in it that had the writers, the authors of this paper, make this statement and remember, this is an NIH statement, and the paper actually is called modulating the endocannabinoid system and human health and disease successes and failures but the authors are Powell packer and George Kunos. What you can't see from their names written at the top there is that these are two MD PhD researchers. They don't only know what things happened to a lab rat. They know enough of course is physicians to have made the statement that's highlighted below in there in yellow, and I'm going to enlarge it for you to see that when I read modulating endocannabinoid system activity may have therapeutic potential in almost all diseases affecting humans coming out of the NIH is I got to learn more about this because that was such a profound statement so far reaching that I said, maybe not in my lifetime, but there's a whole lot of potential there. And that's because the system is a whole lot complicated but not impossible to understand purpose, as humans did going back even ancient China here 700 BC. This is a shamans to somebody who's supposed to be not just special holy understanding, you know, perhaps health are different treatments. varied with with this shaman art female cannabis flowers and those two vessels. The female flowers when they're not pollinated have the greatest concentration of those cannabinoids including THC that made people feel the way to cannabis is well known to and here they are separating out cultivation wise, those parts of only female plants because of the knowledge of the time. And in the Middle East there are still fields of cannabis there naturalized fields that we called

Speaker 1  23:25
landrace fields because a landrace field when grown by humans represents two things It represents the plant grown in the constraints of whatever part of the world that field is in and it represents the needs of what people are growing it. So you'll find in a few places in the world, ancient fields, sometimes a few 1000 years old. And the key here is that the contents of these plants is not what you'll see grown today. The contents in these plants had approximately the same amount of THC and cannabidiol CBD, the second principal cannabinoid that's been more widely discovered in the last 15 or so years as a treatment potentially for children with intractable seizures. Well, overall I'll just say that is very good and relieving anxiety while THC is actually anxiety provoking, especially in novice users. So the to sort of balance themselves out. And speaking of balances with plant things that are smoked or consumed. A similar thing happens with how tobacco is inextricably connected with cannabis because when the tobacco plant which is from the New World, came back with Columbus, on his second voyage, the Carib Indians down here in my part of the country, had already been cultivating it and pineapples and they made their way back to Europe where people put some of that tobacco in their pipe along with the cannabis leaves and said, Wow, that's an interesting combination. So for those of you who aren't familiar with the terms joint blunt or spliff, they all represent different combinations in fact of marijuana and, and tobacco. So here's how the plant has changed. Pay attention to this slide, because it'll give you an idea since 1970. Since we referenced the Controlled Substances Act starting then, about what happens with the content of THC and CBD at the bottom there. The graph on the left are percentages of what's called dry flour weight, in other words, a single molecule that's found in the cannabis female flowers by dry weight and here's what happened back before 1970 There was a balance between the two that seldom even approached 5% And back in those days if something was four or 5% dedicated names and you're gonna go back that far, I could say names like Maui Wowie, Acapulco gold. There were there were a few of them, but they were meant to represent maybe the finest at least as far as what got people the most buzz back then but it became illegal traditionally for physicians that have anything to do with it, because this is the year that prohibition defines schedule one rotation. So what happened after that is that

Speaker 1  26:17
to the traditionally used landrace plant cultivars were changing because the modern plant is chasing that which is prohibited. And if that doesn't make sense to you think about alcohol when it went through its federal prohibition back in the 1920s. Nobody's making money or in business isn't doing anything. Nobody's interested in weak alcohol that like beer or wine. So everybody then if you're going to run run, like Al Capone, its spirits 40% alcohol or moonshine, extra concentrates. So today's cannabis is growing in that same direction. Because of this plant. This is 1973 this is a plant that made it back to Well, originally Amsterdam, and then from there almost immediately to California. It became the darling of breeders. This is Richard Evans Schultes, a rather famous Harvard ethnobotanist and he's standing in Kandahar, this is Afghanistan where those wars are and it's a brutal area. These are 8000 foot plateaus. So these plants get a lot of ultraviolet the nights are colder than you think. A normal hemp plant is a 20 to 25 foot plant in one growing season. These plants are short and squatty they have a lot of THC not as much balanced CBD at all. So the genetics for this push that THC way up. And it also has another chemical called a terpene, which is called Mircea near seen is well terpenes are first. Those chemicals that give all plants there smells, we are driven to taste and what we want to have or don't want to have also through our noses, so if something smells right, you go for it. If it doesn't, you stay away. It's just the power of smells, and the plant uses that to basically in case I guess which animals are in, in integrating with it. And in this case mere scene is a particular smell but near scene is different for its actions because different smells affect us different ways. For instance, lavender, which some of you may know from Bath soaps, things like that, when exposed and smell tends to be relaxing. It gives that type of thought other smells can even be sedating. But other smells may give you the impression that something is very clean and fresh like lemon. You know lemony fresh little Lean is the name of the chemical in there, but those citrus things can be why they give you a towel as you're coming back on a flight that's soaked in a little lemon stuff. It's nice and warm. You clean your face, you think you're clean. It could be the dirtiest towel but the lemon fresh is wiped detergents and then show grocery stores are lined with things lemon fresh. So this plant then otherwise known and evolved to being Afghani Kush number one was very formative in what happened to the plant because the dominant traits from that plant, including the chemicals of THC and myrcene I created these short, indica hybrids. Why is that important? Because with the concentration of what's going on here, these plants are getting stronger and stronger over the next several decades to be right now approaching 25%, not 5% THC and for the CBD actually getting up some now approaching even 15% CBD. But remember on top I said it created short, indica hybrids. The simple reason why this plant was so formative with its dominant genetics in virtually every plant you'll find out there today is because it's a short plant. It's easy to hide from a helicopter. And if you don't think that had something to do with California growers for decades, you're wrong it really does make a difference. So this is why this plant is grown inside. In essence then, unbalanced modern plants evolved from traditional balances. Life is all about balance. This was a little poster thing we commissioned before about mind body imbalances, but these are the different leaders of healthcare in different parts of the world historically. And so whether it was in China, Egypt, India subcontinent or even Greece, which led to Western understanding of health and wellness, it was all over the world and it still is because humans brought this around the world, the vector or the plant spreading was not simply of pollen that floats or anything like that it was humans bringing it with us in order to make him to so this is the United States Pharmacopoeia from 1820 cannabis was mentioned in there and stayed there till 1942 when it will pardon me it started in 1850 in there with its first entry but by 1942 it was removed, which was the first edition of this after 1937. So from that point on, no information about cannabis is provided by the US government. This is our US government's source for not only pharmaceuticals, but nutraceuticals. And everything you ever needed to know about plant based medicines. So where is it at? Now in terms of licensing and education? Important question, because we just talked about how if it comes out of prohibition, then it will be entered in the United States Pharmacopoeia as next edition, and be available for medical students to learn. This is one of the pitfalls now of prohibition because it's not really significantly in any medical school curricula for MDS or I've specifically included DEOs here, and that's because nothing is asked about cannabis on the national board exams when physicians finish medical school MD or do you're not able to practice medicine in almost any state until you have that. Three parts of the national board passed. And if it's not asked about the medical schools are generally not devoting the time needed. There's a lot of other things that students need to know. They're not devoting the time to cannabis. So if it comes out of prohibition, I predict that we'll have about a 10 year hiatus from the first year students coming in to medical school staying doing an internship residence before they're actually out. practicing medicine in the community could be as long as a decade. I know this because I've been involved at our medical school, the University of Miami where I've been actually honored to give the oath of medicine at commencement as president of our alumni association. So Hippocrates is not simply a credited with having the oath, which we actually don't get that specific oath here but also with having said that nature itself is the best medicine which is why I showed hypocrisy is is one of the fathers of modern medicine. Modern medicine, though is dictated by and generally the agenda of agendas and curricula are based on a relatively strict German based understanding of how you learn things based purely and only on evidence based data. We're almost taught to reject other things and that can stifle innovation or the way people think about how to interpret what might be something important but get that didn't meet the most stringent criteria yet there's been criticism of this approach in US education. But now let's jump to the clinician because this puts many of us if we were practicing this medicine in the state where it's legal, it's hard to balance it in a in a real balanced practice. I wouldn't encourage people to only see patients for cannabis but to think about incorporating in as you get one other tool to the practice, what does it do? It actually explains for some people who may not be simply you know, an allopathic or a osteopath, but homeopathic Doc's always are wondering about this elusive gut, brain gut connection. The microbiome is clearly explained that I'll show a slide later on of CB two receptors. The microbiome absolutely is an endocannabinoid driven process. And this is where that yin yang balance which is why that shape is there. centers on chemicals, the middle one of which is THC, the other molecules are investigational things, all of which are known to have interacted with not one but two types of cannabinoid receptors, CB one on the left are those that are generally thought of as being in the mind and the nerves and the nervous system, while CB two is generally in the periphery. Now, CB two receptors

Speaker 1  34:56
are, are really activated real time and on demand, but the body's own chemicals that interact with it that I'll tell you about. In just a moment. Do so that are site specific, and without a much duration of action. They're almost decomposed after they do what they're supposed to do instantaneously. So the difference between that action versus cannabis is chemicals is cannabis. Is chemicals are not site specific. It covers many areas of the brain and body and it lasts a considerably longer time than the body's own chemicals. So where are those chemicals? Well, we talked about CB one receptors and things in the brain and I want to go right there because those little yellow dots describe where THC is known to interact in the brain. This is an image from the NIH. And what I want you to see is all of those areas that are labeled. It can tell you how many different things cannabis can affect and what the body's own chemicals are doing to keep you so that you can have a certain balance between what you remember and you don't if I'm gonna go from memory, what rewards you and what doesn't in terms of dependency, certainly your judgment, movement, sensations, even vision and coordination. All have impact. What you won't find is you won't find this down where I've put those x's, the brainstem and that's where the drive for breathing comes from. So unlike the opioids and all the things you hear about fentanyl, which have their action to stop breathing happening in that medulla and Pons area of the brainstem cannabinoids receptors are not found there. So it's virtually impossible to have so much cannabis to where somebody would stop breathing. If you hear that as the argument for why cannabis should be legal. Remember, if somebody has enough cannabis, they will pretty much fall asleep and if they're driving somebody they can kill themselves or somebody else in that process. So plenty of people have died from having too much cannabis. Having said that, those CB two receiving one receptors, notably absent in the brainstem is kind of a neuro anatomical advantage that's distinct from other not just opioids but other sedative hypnotics as well. Another diagram for showing the ECS but from the brain, how its interacting with the body. These are just some of the peripheral consequences as you can see on the right, how vital it is not only to adipose tissue, but muscles liver, pancreas, the GI tract, and here's what it does. This is the key point that I'm going to bring up. The two little receptors I've circled in the top left there, CB one and CB two. This is an older chart. This is a decade ago of receptors, human receptors that are known and the actions of those cannabinoids. All of the other receptors actions are subordinate to the impact of what those cannabinoid receptors are doing. They are fine tuning every other receptor system in the body. Which by the way, the other ones are all water based, but this lipid based system is doing that and here's the mechanism for how it's actually done. This is a view of a synapse. So the top portion coming down more of the aqua color is the presynaptic vesicle the space or the synapse between that and the purple area, which would be the postsynaptic surface is where one nerve talks to another. And that's a very important point here because what's happening at all of these little synapse interspaces is that the action of the CB one receptor you see in the middle there, CB one that is in fact through two chemicals that are going retrograde from the bottom on the postsynaptic to the top. You'll see a turquoise and a sort of pink peach arrow going up saying to ag and then the money. And those are the body's own principle to lie ganz that THC is trying to mimic, especially the to AG because it's what's called a partial agonist. It's not a full on off more of the way that to AG is, but anandamide excuse me anandamide is the chemical that THC most closely resembles as a matter of fact. anandamide is a Sanskrit word for bliss or balance. So this was understood 30 years ago, nearly 30 years ago, as being the role of what anandamide does. So what it does then, in terms of a mechanism, follow a little quick animation here. When activated, it sends impulses and that that to ag and anandamide, you notice THC off to the right is coming in, not as part of the loop but as an independent molecule. And what it's doing it is making a little release there of a feedback loop. In this case, glutamate as the neurotransmitter associated with pain this one but it's all neurotransmitters, okay? You're also talking about adrenaline and terpene. You know, all neurotransmitters, even dopamine, have some of their effects if not controlled, all of their effects really managed through the impact of these cannabinoid receptors, and therefore those two chemicals naturally anandamide and two ag are controlling everything else in the body. And if you want to talk about balance, here's really what happens because receptors have positive things that change their constitutive balance and things that counteract that. So in looking at this diagram here, for the top one showing positive regulation, here you can see the effect of having a full agonist versus a partial agonist. This is how THC works on the top and yet you can also have negative control on the receptors and that's what's happening here, where the activity then can be changed by what are called inverse agonist, not not partial agonists. And this is the way not only the body works, but this is the way pharmaceutical companies are starting to look at how do we manage some people which may have too high of a tone of this, they call it endocannabinoid tone. Or if somebody and this is a phrase I don't particularly espouse to endocannabinoid deficiency syndrome. People will use that I think we're still, you know, perhaps decades away from classifying it as a syndrome. For the most part, if you do healthy things, and you have a healthy mind and body and get back to doing some of the things I'm sure that many of our grandmothers emphasized. We probably have healthier endocannabinoid systems. So let's get right into the politics a moment. You're gonna have to do something here just to get my slide back. No, okay. Here we go. Today I'm down here at the University of Miami. But most of the research for cannabis in Florida happens at the agricultural center for our state which is at the University of Florida.

Speaker 1  42:30
I am a master gardener by the University of Florida's ifas program. That's what does it stand for International Food and Agricultural Sciences. But I'm also the longest standing physician member on the hemp pilot project because Florida had legal hemp before marijuana. And so the research into hemp is also something that I'm interested in because that's where agriculture is based. You am at Miami doesn't have much agriculture. So I sort of wear two hats. This is really where we're at though in January of this year for legalization. I don't know which states all of you are in I know we probably have a contingency from the West Coast California. Maybe Nevada, and the Northeast is now possibly there. But in the Philippines, I want you to know that this is how divided we are but this is the way our country works. The states are independent experiments in essence, and then we when we have enough of a consensus you would think that that creates the majority in a democracy to change a law. It's politicized though as well because we rely on our government for at least public health concerns. And that's why the states when you see them in this map looking well balanced, don't necessarily respect the populations in those states. This is a little more of a Morph map that will tell you how many people in which parts of the country seemingly are getting it and have it available versus ones that don't. And then globally, this is a few years old, and I guess you might be able to find out where in Asia, you can see that it's legal, totally illegal or whichever. I know that Thailand, where I visited in March, it is legal there and there's people with concerns there but most of the rest of the world outside of some parts of the United States where it's legal Canada and other places in Europe, Thailand, most other places are still not really deciding how it's going to be at I think that they are waiting for the United States to impact the United Nations Convention on drugs as well as the world Earth health organizations. So I want to try to get between politics, law and basic sciences to really give you a feel in the next few slides on where this comes from. One of my you know idols here emphasizes that I have to keep some of this simple and if this isn't a simple enough understanding for ancient cultures, how they taught their serve their next generations about health and wellness, maybe he could be your grandpa, your grandma, I was talking about maybe your actual grandmother teaching you healthy things. But botanical wisdom was key to health and wellness. That's where most of the chemicals came from. Jump forward 1000s of years and you have modern science, and that's why I'm showing this PET scan. This is a PET scan from 2013 and it actually shows where CB two receptors are. Remember I said there's the CB one receptors brain mostly thinking about those functions while the body is for the most part CB two CB two receptors generally light dormant and they respond when there's a disease or an injury specifically in that area. To keep that area in balance with what nature requires. And in a very real sense if you think about balances and what nature requires. If an organism becomes out of balance with nature, it becomes extinct. And that's a very important point to realize that cannabinoids, then in all animals, not simply mammals, not simply higher primates, all vertebrates and invertebrates have endocannabinoids that keep those animals in balance. So here's the interesting part about this. Picture, if you look closely at the lower would be the lower left of the screen. You'll see a little spot by the hand that's an intravenous site. And this is a picture PET scan taken two hours after the injection of a radio isotope labeled chemical molecule that binds the CB two receptors. So this then maps out not so much the orange areas but the yellow and green the orange also impacts from blood flow. But all of that green area focus generally in the abdominal area is where CB two receptors are why do I want you to see that? Because now you have a picture of an acupuncture chart. This particular one dates back, you know 1500 years ago but this is the way acupuncture as an Eastern cultures understanding the health and wellness if you look closely or if any of you are familiar with acupuncture, you'll understand not just the concept but what chi really means chi. I have to get back to a slide apparently again chi if you look on the right is the word that in Eastern cultures generally is conferring life through flow. And in our culture, health, we involve life with immunity. Well, those of you who know anything about acupuncture is life's forces. The Vitality does not flow through the brain or the heart or the lungs. It goes through the gut. And even ancients understood that the flow of life I mentioned the gut microbiome before, this is where the body interfaces with its environment more than your skin outside. This is what determines which bacteria are good for you what can kill you when you eat it versus what will make you healthier. The Eastern cultures understood a concept of chi while we understand and Western medicine immune systems if you don't have an intact immune system or an intact endocannabinoid system, you will be dead in a few days. And so the understanding now is where Western medicines new science future actually is meeting Eastern medicines traditional paths and that really is how I interpret what integrative medicine is the namesake now of your organization, trying to get some of these critical concepts of a global understanding of health and wellness into your own organizations. So I want to go to where my background is a moment to tell you how many if not most people are using cannabis today, as well as how preparations of plants have impacted people when we want to know about pain. So I'm going to devote the next few moments about telling you how pharmaceuticals have evolved over the last 200 years for the treatment of pain and endorphins endocannabinoids and endo vanilloid aids. If you notice these are all 20th century discoveries how these particular ligands for three independent systems impacting pain, were found. Endorphins goes way back to 1974. And of course, that's the opium poppy for morphine, while endocannabinoids discovery didn't happen until the early 1990s. And that's describing how cannabis is THC. And CBD and other cannabinoids work while endo vanilloid aids, that's the chili pepper trying to get next There we go. And capsaicin, and those of you familiar with one approach to pain or the other would understand that too much of any one of these may hijack the perception of pain and want people to have more of it or even developed dependencies. That's the ugly side. However, the right dose is the lowest effective dose of any of these. And here's what pharmaceutical companies knew over 100 years ago. Clora dine is a good example of a popular pain medicine all pharmaceutical companies added this one is Parke Davis, his version in the early 1900s. But in the early 20th century, botanical formularies were widely used. These were pills, but they had in it extracts from morphine, cannabis and capsaicin, all three but in small amounts that mitigated the side effects of any one chemical. Jump forward to the basically the end of the 20th century. And the research then identified only then endorphins, endocannabinoids endocannabinoids. It's about receptors. And then the anesthesiologists are supposed to be receptors specific pharmacists and experts in physiology. This is the reason I understood this. Not very clearly but with an appreciation for how plants interface with our receptors years ago, and in essence, physicians years ago also would have known

Speaker 1  51:51
that even though Clora dine in this case was well documented as effective per pain. It was also abused. There were plenty of times where people took a whole bottle of it or several bottles as a way to take the pain away and actually resulting in death. So the question becomes more of an ethical one and we're gonna dive breasts here just a moment to say we're all trying to do the right thing. And the challenge of should we provide compassionate access to Canada's while it remains under federal prohibition? There are medical legal ethics that are between the American Medical Association and physicians trying to do the right thing. And in this case, the AMA says that a physician shall respect the law and also recognize a responsibility to see changes in those requirements that are contrary to the best interests of the patient. Why is that? Very hard. To do? It's because many physicians in the country if not most have two licenses. And yes, one of them is to practice medicine legally in their state. But when a state has not a clear understanding, or if it state even does, and you have a federal DEA license that says you can't do it, that conflict puts many physicians in a position where they don't want to have to deal with the principles of medical ethics here. So I was told about this about 10 years ago because the University of Miami as a medical school has, believe it or not, the longest standing continuous ethics department of a medical school in the United States over 60 years old. And I had some deep thought and deep talks with the chair of that department about bioethics and that's what I want to show you a moment is the way I've dealt with being into this subject to where I can understand what it is. And although I don't see patients myself to authorize cannabis, I got kids, they're just 19 years old now and I wanted them to think 10 years ago, if dad's going to talk about marijuana, he's going to do it from a at least the bioethical basis or platform. So we've devised this, this sentence that seeking relief from the intolerable symptoms, physical psychological or spiritual, of injuries or diseases, it's instinctive and it contributes to medicinal substances use and abuse. I'm not putting a value judgment on that I'm just connecting the two that animals will self soothe, and it's just the natural response. So what's different about that is that there's actually another statement that I don't see in my slide here. Coming up, I apologize. But the next statement would be from the physicians perspective to do something bioethical, which would be that society has healers as the designated representatives to help alleviate pain and suffering. So those two statements are irrefutable. And it's what gives it least me the thought that it I do have a bioethical basis for offering it to some patients but not all, because here's the data you really need to pay attention to. This is public health data. And yes, it goes back 20 years. But I want to show you a trend. This appeared in JAMA in 2004. I want to show you a trend of the leading causes of public death threadable death, and I said tobacco smoking was by far the leading cause of it. That's going down over the next several years, and that's a public health victory. But what's not is lethal opioid overdoses during the same timeframe. Because what happened it went dark drug abuse is that's went from the ninth most frequent trend over the last 15 years. And this was by the way from a few years ago when I did this slide. I 2019 did surpass motor vehicle accidents. I be curious to see because this predates fentanyl, but it's not as recent as infectious diseases which could include COVID So this is a very dynamic chart. But let's say that drug abuse is on the way up, tobacco smoking is on the way down, and where drug abuse may have illegal entry from industry. This is the industry that's driving some of the things that we're talking about today. And the analysis of how it impacts public health while the jury's still out, but obviously it has a seedy side to it. And if you're going to follow things even in terms of income, and what's going on in the market, just in the recent month or two since the announcement that the DA plans to reschedule some of these cannabis stocks are dumping right now because they're figuring Oh, well, if that's the case, everything's gonna be fine for everybody and we're not going to be able to make a killing in it or whatever. But I'm bringing up that it's a very dynamic time, politically and for industry and Doc's are stuck in the middle. Here's another cartoon I'm going to show you for a second because the cart can get ahead of the horse, so to speak. And in this case, if an unwitting Doc is the one who is basically allowing things to happen because of anecdotal reports, that's not evidence based data or stakeholder bias, then the horse that should lead the lead it with evidence based data and bioethical reason is being dragged along and this cartoon sort of brings that to light. But it's not just me it look you have leading Doc's the nation's top doc is generally considered to be the Surgeon General of the United States. And if you look back to 1970, the top left Dr. Jesse Steinfeld, he came out for cannabis even though that was the same time he was the Surgeon General when the controlled substance act there. Then his successor said nah, I don't know either way and then bottom left C Everett Koop that's who was Surgeon General when I'm graduating medical school, he did great things for smoking and tobacco. It's very strong handed but did what he wanted. He said he was against it. So even there the next three Surgeon General's all political appointees. Were for it not either way and then against it. You go through the next several and you can only see that in the recent years. Have you now seen not clearly pro or con since 2002. On the right side there. The interesting thing about that is it's the political discord, because in that political discord you'll see conversations evolving on a federal level, that get into the politics and this statement about the politics happening and getting in the way of realizing that science and reason matter. Is that kind of a profound statement there and I wanted to make note of it again, because I told you I was going to drive in that science and reason matter above the politics. So what do we have about Surgeon Generals? General

Unknown Speaker  58:53
while we have you here, I

Speaker 3  58:54
want to get you on the record about whether you support the legalization of marijuana, and what concerns do you have?

Speaker 4  59:02
Well, marijuana is an interesting story that's unfolding in our country right now and I and we have, you know, had a long history of discussion around the benefits and risks of marijuana. We have experiments that are going on in many states right now, where medical marijuana has been legalized and in at least a few states where it's been legalized even for recreational use. We want to know your position.

Unknown Speaker  59:22
No, the year 2015.

Speaker 4  59:24
Yes. Well, I my position is that we have to we have to see what the science tells us about the efficacy of marijuana. And I think we're gonna get a lot more data on that. And we have some preliminary data showing that for certain medical conditions and symptoms, that marijuana can be helpful. So I think that we have to use that data to drive policymaking and I'm very interested to see where that data takes us. Dr. Vivek Murthy,

Speaker 3  59:46
we thank you for your first live interview with us here on CBS. Good to see so much. Thanks. Great to be with you.

Speaker 1  59:51
I'll tell you what he looks like a kid there doesn't need looks like it is Surgeon General's uniform that you know it's oversized but he actually believe it or not, was a valedictorian from my high school here in Miami. And he's also the first two times Surgeon General. I'm going to show you in just a moment, the surgeon general that followed him who happens to be an anesthesiologist and the disposition that I wanted to point out in this last comment that he gave Dr. Murthy was from 2015. Why is that important? Well, there was a government commission study through the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and medicine. It was meant to follow up with and be the next edition of marijuana and medicine, which was the predecessor Institute for their called the Institute of Medicine from in the 1990s. But now in 2017. In January, the report on the right came out, and a federally commissioned study it was a meta analysis, and they divided different things that had evidence based data into statements saying that there was either no evidence based data and that covered many, many things where there may have been limited, moderate substantial evidence based data or only in one situation, conclusive medical, evidence based data that cannabis worked for certain diseases. So this is generally the republication you can pull it up anytime you'd like. But what it found was this THC has its best efficacy efficacy for chemotherapy, nausea, vomiting, that's the one that has conclusive medical evidence. While chronic pain and multiple sclerosis muscle spasm treatments with cannabinoids has substantial evidence based data. Why am I singling out just those three? Well, because they're the highest evidence based data that was looked at in that meta analysis. Again, federal government sponsored in essence okay commissioned and yet it talks about CBT CBT what it might be helpful for but what it says on the bottom little benefit glaucoma, ALS and Parkinson's right now. So that's where it is now, but I want to show you a moment what the following Surgeon General says. Jerome Adams again, an anesthesiologist was President Trump's Surgeon General, and he's having to deal with the reality I showed you on previous slides of just how concentrated cannabis is now entirely unnatural, and some of his comments bring that up. So here's a little interview with him in 2019.

Speaker 5  1:02:34
Very, very concerned as Surgeon General, how far out far and how fast we're going on marijuana in this country. Very conservative. You know, number one, this isn't your mother's marijuana. Marijuana a decade ago, was 5% thc. It's single digits THC. You now have professionally grown.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:59
Excuse me.

Speaker 5  1:03:01
I mean, very, very concerned a Surgeon General at how far and how fast we're going on marijuana in this country. Very concerned. You know, number one, this isn't your mother's marijuana. Marijuana a decade ago, was 5% thc. in single digits THC. You now have professionally grown strains that are 20 30% THC and then they're concentrating them into oils into waxes. They're vaping in the dabbing, then they're shattered, shattered and you're getting 90 95% thc. It's like the difference between you having a glass of wine and a pint of brain alcohol. It literally is. And so we've normalized this idea of marijuana use across the country way too fast to the point that in communities in California there's one in five pregnant women 20% of pregnant women reporting that they are using marijuana during pregnancy. Use attitudes are changing about it about marijuana across the country. And I want you to hear me say this with the nation's doctor. There is no such thing as medical marijuana. And I see some eyebrows raised out there. We don't talk about medical foxgloves. We don't talk about medical opium. There is no other substance out there that as a physician, we say throw it in your backyard, crumble it up, bake it into a brownie or roll it into into into into a cigarette and smoke it and that's going to be good for whatever ails you. There are over 100 components of marijuana, some of them which have medicinal properties and medicinal promise, and we need to make sure we push for the research so that we can say to each individual, this component has been proven to be beneficial for your disease and here the risk and the benefits

Speaker 1  1:04:46
Okay, so Dr. Adams then is pointing out that the concentrates may be entirely unnatural. And that sometimes it's Well, I'll tell you what, he's an anesthesiologist I mentioned and I mentioned that anesthesiologist or clinical pharmacists, I'm going to give you some pharmacy wisdom from centuries ago. And these statements of that sometimes it's the dose that defines a poison is true. We can have too much oxygen or watering and hurt ourselves and sometimes kill yourselves too much water. So just because something is natural and good doesn't mean that at any concentration or dose, that it's going to have the same effects that humans had probably evolved with for those close to 10,000 years, which has been significantly changed in the last 50. So what does that mean? It means that medical research in the USA as a result of that study that 2017 National Academies report. These are the recommendations to develop a comprehensive evidence base, which would be a lot easier to do if it's not prohibited research becomes facilitated development of a conclusive evidence of other things. Ensure that sufficient data is available and create a committee of experts to ask with the objective of evidence based reporting. It's kind of basic stuff, but it hasn't been able to happen under the constraints of federal prohibition. So I'm going to show you one last Surgeon General Comment it happens to be the current Surgeon General, who was again, Dr. Murthy from two terms ago. But now things are different because now we're talking in 2021, which was after the National Academies report, and at this point that he's giving the talks just before the Biden administration tasks their HHS to relook at cannabis in 2022. They did. So HHS sent their recommendation that it should be changed to schedule three as a controlled substance. And that was turned over to the DEA a few months ago. I think it was in May, and in the beginning of December is when the DEA then will have their public testimony and development potentially of rules. It may not happen then and may it may be politicized yet again, depending on who next is in the White House if changes are there. The interesting thing is this is the Biden administration's push on it. And former President Trump at least for being a Florida citizen. Last week came out for the Florida adult use or recreational measure that's a constitutional amendment proposed for November and he came out in favor of that which is in contrast to our Governor and Republican Party here in Florida. So politics makes for interesting bedfellows. And yet in this case, what I'd be saying is that either of the two parties vying for the next White House spot, seemingly are interested in having it at least in Florida. So to move on then this is Dr. Murthy. Mind you He's eight years older, he doesn't look so young anymore.

Speaker 3  1:07:54
Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer introduced legislation this week to decriminalize marijuana at the federal level. from a health perspective Do you support that?

Speaker 4  1:08:07
Well, when it comes to marijuana, then I think we have to let science guide us and we know that the science tells us that there are some benefits to for marijuana from a medical perspective, but there are also some harms that we have to consider and we have to put those together as we think about the right policy. Now when it comes to decriminalization, I don't think that there is value just an individual further to society to lock people up for marijuana use. I don't think that serves anybody well. And so but I do think that in terms of our approach to marijuana, I worry when we don't let science guide our process and policymaking and then a surgeon general that is that's my role is to work with policymakers who work with members of the community and the general public to help people understand what science tells us and where you gaps to help fill those gaps with research and with honest inquiry. Sounds good to be back.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:57
Martha, thank you so much for joining me this morning. Appreciate it.

Speaker 1  1:09:00
So I'm going to want to wrap up we're approaching the top of the hour. And I'll just say that if I can understand this everybody on this call Can I hope I did a decent job in explaining to you some of the mechanisms, the politics the evolution of this even the plant's evolution itself. So I will say that since COVID, I've been fairly busy. I've written four chapters in these three textbooks. These are real, medical published textbooks you'll be hard pressed to find much else otherwise. Of note the first one is on pain and that's the integrative management of pain if anybody's interested. The second book that came out last summer on cannabis chemistry and biology and I'm not selling the books. I don't make a royalty on it, by the way. But that second books editor and the picture on that second book is actually of the farms at the University of Mississippi. The University of Mississippi since the controlled substance Act has had the excuse pretty much exclusive rights to supply the federal government with all research cannabis. Now, it may not be exactly what people are smoking today. But Dr. El Sol lavorare Mahmoud. Al Solei has run that farm for the last 40 years. He's a pharmacist, PhD pharmacist and botanist. We are collegial botanists having respect for each other. He asked me to write the opening chapter for that book. And that chapters title is cannabis the history of cannabis a story of coevolution and human discovery. So that's the cannabis chemistry background. My background to at least have some feel for the chemistry is before medical school at UNM, I was at Emory and a chemistry major in the early 70s. The last book just came out actually it was only released a few months ago. It's the seventh edition Brody's human pharmacology. There's actually two chapters in that book that I did. One is they asked me to rewrite the previous chapter on cannabinoids, I did, but when I looked at the book, there's another chapter that speaks a lot about cannabis and marijuana called drugs of illicit use and abuse, which is now with their chapter called substance abuse disorders. And it's mentioned in there I'm the author of that chapter also, and seemingly, that's a hot button subject for those of you with DEA licenses, where you need to complete a certain minimum amount before your next relicense So on that basis, then one last little take home message. You can see the joint there and the seductive smoke. I don't know what that figure is a woman or something there but the take home message really is that's temptation. And what do I mean the temptations indulgence it offers us choices. And when you have choices just like the genie in the bottle, it gives you those first few choices and then there's the gotchu one. The choices offer you choices, but in this case it cautions us to be careful with what we wish for and with the same final message because science and reason matter. So on that basis if anybody would like to contact me further about this, these are two emails where I can be reached through and so Dr. Clearfield, I'm finished with the slides I can stop screen sharing if it's okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:15
Yeah, that's fine. Well, you seen your head, nothing new. Everything. No. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:12:24
Well, you know, it's it's a matter of the timing of it. And the timing for your talk now, at least for Florida and a little less than two months is going to decide recreational here. And by the end of the year, the DEA is going to start having public discussions about changing to schedule three. But what can I say politics and governments get in the way whether state, federal or maybe for the Philippines contingency on the call the Filipino government, but the jury's still out for most of the other things that people think it works for. I've been purposeful in showing you only those few things that have evidence based data. And it's a good starting point because at least there are some that have that to where the definition of prohibition, no known medical use, has been turned on its head with that federally commissioned report. You want to handle it. Are there any questions or answers I have?

Bill Clearfield  1:13:24
Well, there's one in the chat. Dr. Leonard says You didn't mention anything about CB one. There's anecdotal information about connections to schizophrenia.

Speaker 1  1:13:35
Well, I didn't go too much into the psychiatry portions because I did mention CPE ones by showing the brain all the areas that it was in including areas of decision making and and other things that correlate a healthy brain. The fact is that with psychiatry, and I'm glad you're mentioning psychiatry, I'm an anesthesiologist. I'm trained like a dinosaur in that when I was doing my fellowship in pain, there was not a subspecialty of Addiction Medicine, which generally went the way of psychiatry as a sub specialty. anesthesiologists were still regarded as the purveyors of what's called interventional pain management. But a lot of people practice pain nowadays, including psychiatrists. And the reason I'm mentioning that is because psychiatrists I believe, right now as one field are the most polarized in this space. You have some psychiatrist as staunch addictionologist who think no how no way we don't need another dependence forming addicting drug out there. And you have others who compare it to other medicines used in psychiatry, which have other side effects, in particular, certain uses for anxiety, anxiety, anxiety leases, and we're talking comparing to benzodiazepines or even other serotonin type system things and we'd like to be able to look and learn more about not just cannabidiol for that, but the balances of cannabinoids like THC with CBD for therapeutic use. So considering that certain people from psychiatry who have a genetic predisposition to psychosis and drug history use and abuse can have worse outcomes and get other people with schizophrenia. Remember, these are different psychiatric diagnoses. If the psychiatrists could come to a consensus opinion, and let us know more how to approach the impact of CB one receptors therapeutically. I didn't necessarily say through cannabis on schizophrenia. Yeah, that could be something very interesting. There's a lot of research done not on schizophrenia, but on Alzheimer's, and presenile, dementia, and ways to still stay connected with those parts. of the brain. But these at this point, are lacking the heart of evidence based data. There's certainly a lot of anecdotal information out there. But the cautionary word there about the word anecdotal is it's not the plural of data.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:10
Okay, does that Dr. Leonard, does that answer your question at all? You're muted.

Speaker 6  1:16:18
Yes, it was very good. And I guess my specialty showed I am a retired psychiatrist. And the polarization I do appreciate. My concern too, is the tremendous potency that was talked about and with Dr. Adams clip I thought he hit the nail on the head in doing any kind of research I think we really need to have a very specific molecule or substance that we are, you know, working with because, you know, pot is is not just pot it's all kinds of things and adulterants that really come into the mix and that that would help me feel a lot better about considering use if we had something that was really much more fine tuned than what we have now.

Speaker 1  1:17:18
Well, Dr. Leonard, your point about fine tuning begins with the minimal effective dose. The problem is, when you use it habitually, you get down regulation. And it's like with many other if not most other drugs. So it takes more to get you to that point before. The difference is you'll find individuals who especially novice users, if they use it, wow. It's not what I remember as a kid 50 years ago or something. But at the same time, you'll find people then who are showing the side effects so people of our age who may have tolerated as a kid trying to concentrate things today. One of the big hallmarks of powerful pot is that it's an afterload reducer, meaning it drops your blood pressure. You can have somebody just standing there and trying something that potent or vaping, something potent as a concentrate. They'll fall flat on their face from hypotension acutely, hopefully they recover acutely when they're down but I've seen it happen before. And for people with advanced cardiac disease that's getting into not just a simple relative contraindication but for some people, probably an absolute one. And speaking of absolute contraindications you listened to I believe it was Dr. Adams, commenting on a smoking in pregnancy. So I'm gonna give you a different point of view. Because smoking anything during pregnancy robs the blood of oxygen, okay, it's just the matter of you know what the carbon monoxide and everything else that happened has nothing to do with smoking and cancer like from tobacco. But smoking is a delivery method. This is the point I'm making for you, Dr. Leonard about the delivery methods make a difference? Yes, the fastest way to the brain. To those CB one receptors is inhalation is an anesthesiologist I know this, there is no faster way. However, vascular absorption, like the way people would take nitroglycerin under the tongue can get systemically in a matter of moments, not seconds, but little longer. However, if you look at pregnancy and one of the scourges of pregnancy associated with nausea and vomiting is first trimester nausea and vomiting. In cultures that do not have definitive medical healthcare where somebody can go into an ER have an intravenous started maybe some Zofran that's a brand name sorry, but you know basically things that are anti emetic inject it in. I will tell you that the healers indigenous peoples who have grown around plants in Jamaica, will routinely use dilute cannabis teas for patients and young women in their first trimester of pregnancy with intractable vomiting. At the same time, they're replacing volume. They're using a very low dose, and their babies come out with what are called Apgar scores off the charts. So you have cultures there, okay, including Rastafarians that have made this all part of their culture and the reason I'm giving you that specific thing is just because you see a Rasta guy smoking a big spliff doesn't mean that the pregnant woman's doing it that way. But the chemicals are understood. And as one final point since Dr. Clearfield met my wife Michelle, she was born in Jamaica. We have family there. So it's another way that as an American doc, who's not from there has an appreciation for different cultures use even in modern times.

Speaker 6  1:20:50
Thank you very much. Dr. Clearfield didn't mention the beginning of my comments which was fantastic presentation so thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:59
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:00
We don't we want to make sure Dr. block gets out of here. We you know when he can get his head through the door. So because if I read a mall, we would be here for another hour. You

Speaker 1  1:21:10
wrote that I didn't write that script in your email though.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:14
Okay, doctrinaire you have some email questions.

Speaker 7  1:21:17
Here's the thing. Dr. Leonard has a question still about the Oh geez. I thought it was a question the gut connection with CBD CB two. I think it was just a comment. But yeah, so on my end, it really I have a lot of patients who are smoking pot and I've seen literature that it does affect the development of the brain. So in this situation, the cut offs that you would recommend for now it's really out there. What are your recommendations or recommendations or thoughts about these situations?

Speaker 1  1:21:49
Thank you. Again, I mentioned that I have twin boys who are not even 20 years old yet. And so obviously there's a lot out there in those states, which have it legal recreationally or even medically, more kids of high school age in those states do get it. They feel that it's safer because it's no longer prohibited where they live. I'll point out that the brain develops its circuitry with cannabinoids until approximately your mid 20s. So if you're going to ask me what grad school celebrate leaving grad school with a joint or something, but until that point, the reason that that's important is while there are very few longitudinal studies, one longitudinal study I want you to be aware of, is called the Dunedin study. The Dunedin study is not Dunedin which is a city in the Panhandle in Florida but New Zealand and in in in that study it followed longitudinally. Kids who would 15 years old, started using cannabis and used it continuously, no brakes, and didn't stop to get tested again, for this parameter IQ until they're 30. So here you have a longitudinal study and certain people 15 years. And it looked at IQ because that's one of the things that from the time you're born a little child, your IQ generally stays in the same place where it is roughly the same. So remember, an IQ of a score of 100 is the 50th percentile. Here's the interesting part about what was revealed in the Dunedin study of those kids who used it that long and that frequently and obviously not everybody that started the study by the age 30 is still using it but those that did and it was a statistically significant number. Their IQ actually lowered six points. What does that mean? Well, they start is an average of 100. It brings them to 94. So I'm going to point this out where the mean of an IQ score of 100 is 50 100. The mean is there. A score of 94 now pushes you to the 26th percentile, not the 50th percentile anymore, with six points of IQ lowered in that subset. Why is that important? I took it from my own kids. I'd rather have them wait until they're 25 and then try it, then to perhaps start younger and be the 24th sharpest pencil in a box of 100 rather than potentially excelling in college where they're at right now. So that's the Dunedin study. We need more longitudinal studies.

Speaker 7  1:24:32
Right? Yeah, it's just started here in Nevada. This is something that's okay to use and be you just go in every street corner and there is an access for it. No, it's something that I guess we need to educate as providers. You're also and Yeah, and I've got another question here would be I don't know if you heard the PICO IV, which is a CBD based IV therapy. Have you heard of this and how effective we are to studies?

Speaker 1  1:25:02
No, I'm sorry, I don't know to comment intelligently. So if you want to tell us anything in this forum, I'm happy to hear what you have to say. Well,

Speaker 7  1:25:11
it's something that I have not been using it. And of course, the reps are coming in sending us materials about it. And they're seeing that this is something that now is another delivery method of CBD, other than what we know about it's it's an IV form and they have protocols that we can use especially for, of course, insomnia, chronic conditions like cancer. Still, I'm waiting for more data about this, but I just thought as a leading expert in this field, you What

Speaker 1  1:25:42
state are you in Dr. Naria, Nevada, in Nevada so yeah. And so along with Dr. Clearfield there. I found that the states that are coming in to this legalization, it's a process and so all I'll say with not knowing the PICO information is that I could tell you things about CBD because there was another legislation federally in 2018. That actually impacted what you're seeing now and CBDs availability. In 2018. The federal government changed the farm bill that year. So that it would redefine the hemp differently than marijuana. The original cannabis as far as a catch all term for things dating back to the 1937 marijuana tax act and then continuing to the Controlled Substances Act. Did not differentiate cannabis from hemp, hemp being the textile. So here's the interesting thing. You can have varieties of hemp that produce CBD cannabidiol that don't produce any THC. And those plants became the darling of industry that wanted to take this new magic you can say it's snake oil, but it is an oil of CBD and extract it from the Controlled Substances Act and that did happen because a a medicine called Epidiolex which is made from cannabis plants, but exclusively CBD was found to be effective for the children with intractable seizures. So the DEA pulled it out of schedule one and immediately put it to schedule five and within a few months from their D scheduled now that is d scheduled it's treated like the nutraceutical I told you as a lower standard than pharmaceuticals when basically processed, approved or otherwise overseen by the Food and Drug Administration. So now you have something that can be legally grown hemp in any of the 50 states and most do to produce CBD. What did that do? It meant that in two or three years hence from 2018 Now you had an overabundance of cannabidiol all throughout the United States, which may seem good because the original price for it was very high. And so the price started coming down until the people said wait a minute, the stuff we're making now it's going down the toilet. What else can we do with this CBD? It does not take advanced chemistry. I'm a chemistry guy I told you. If you subject that CBD to a strong acid, you can turn it in a lab into what's called delta eight. THC. Delta nine THC is what's naturally in the plant. There's a very, very tiny amount of this delta eight there. It is a analog of THC at the receptors. Some people say it might be slightly less potent but make no doubt about it. It has many of the same effects of THC, but it skirts the law because delta eight coming from him is technically getting through a loophole to be legally available to kids in a pharmacy and not a pharmacy in a gas station. And it's sold throughout the country including your state and mine in those kinds of places. So there's industry taking an abundance of something that may be fine in of itself CBD and chemically turning it into something else, which gets your high. So you know I say it this way. There's a whole lot of evidence based data on what THC does. That's bad. There's a little bit for what it does. That's good, but it's all Delta nine research. The only delta eight research that I'm very, not just curious about but impressed by is many years ago over 20 years ago in Israel. They use delta aid on children receiving chemotherapy, and they had hundreds of subjects. And that study which was at first double blind, the few of the people who were looking at which kids were not having like any nausea versus those that kept throwing up. It revealed to the to the researchers which ones were getting the drug and which ones weren't. So that study was terminated early, because how impressive that effect of cannabinoids plant based ones now still Delta eight given to children could be to alleviating children's nausea and vomiting. So it's one of the reasons that today by the way, that's the only diagnosis that has conclusive evidence based data for how it works. It's another reason why an analogue of Delta nine THC called Marinol. is available pharmaceutically The problem is pure THC. If you gave Marinol to patients for nausea. When they take it, many of the people there don't like the delay in relieving their nausea and vomiting that they would not encounter if they weren't taking something to ingest it. If they just took a hit of a joint they feel better faster. And then also those naive users who are trying Marinol sometimes have that side effect of paranoia I said happens to people when they try it and they're not used to it. So Marinol for the most part has been a flop but it's technically legal. So

Speaker 7  1:31:11
brought up Delta eight intense what are the real questions? These are I think, newer findings and how safe are these? They were so you just said that they're available in gas stations. So that's a Yeah, that's a curious question as a follow up to what you just said. I mean these I've heard these are kind of still dangerous too. Is that correct?

Speaker 1  1:31:31
Well, I think there's still dose related consequences to anything with Delta eight or nine. The only exception for having a good study for Delta eight that I'm aware of that really singles it for something therapeutic would be the one I've just mentioned. For kids getting chemotherapy. And yet, while we have an abundance of information studies and research done on Delta nine, we've got virtually nothing to support Delta eight. It's not what we know about it, but what we don't know compare it to Delta nine. That's the thing that concerns me at this moment. I think you'll find out that in the long run I said I think I said I don't know that you'll find it's it's it's uh effects fairly comparable to Delta nine THC.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:16
Delta 10. Yeah, and these

Speaker 1  1:32:19
are all and then there's, you know, there's THC P there's Veyrons. There are a lot of analogs of, of the plants THC, that can be either manufactured, artificially converted from other cannabinoids or extracted from the plant this this other types of cannabinoids which can get you intoxicated I'm going to use that word deliberately because that's the way many people regard THC versus most of the other cannabinoids. Those are individual molecules found in minut concentrations in existing plants. But when you have genetics that through CRISPR can take a gene in one plant and put it in another to now gear that plant to produce more delta 10. The plants that are used for the CBD for Epidiolex it's from GW Pharma in England. That is a plant genetically engineered to produce one cannabinoid, you can have halfways in the plants. The plants biochemistry that interfere say with an enzyme that breaks it down at a certain point that gets backed up and you have a plant there that gets stuck making only CBD only delta nine only one other cannabinoid. So that's where the Agricultural Science is catching up with the health care science.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:45
Yeah, yeah. However,

Speaker 1  1:33:48
what I really think you'll see in the future, is I don't think you're going to think you're in the in the long run. You're going to see the plant itself, perhaps act as an inspiration for understanding how the receptor systems work. But you'll see partial agonists from analog chemicals that you can get a patent on remember, you can't patent a plant's natural chemistry, right, you can change the molecule show how it works, what it's good for, I think you're far more likely to see chemicals that are partial agonists resembling anandamide, more than two ag because that partial balance for what is a receptor that's getting a partial effect, which is by the way, how CBD works. It's a negative allosteric modulator is the full name for it. But when you can affect one part of what a receptor does and not hurt another part, there you have a potential medicine. That's where I think things will evolve to, but not until you get it into the research wheelhouse of probably academia, industry, and into the minds of the physicians coming out who were about 10 years away of understanding the subject, perhaps, as well as some of you on the call tonight have started to understand that both politically and pharmaceutically.

Speaker 7  1:35:10
Well, here's a curious question. Currently the Philippine Sea we have a Filipino contingent here. They're actually supporting the Senate. I guess, interpolations here in the Philippines. Any advice for them in this cause for I guess, legalization or medical support, or for it to push through?

Speaker 1  1:35:35
I'll go to the same premise that exists in Jamaica because I'm going to a foreign country now. And going to a country where people have used it, whether illicitly or not. And I'm going to say that in in those cultures where people understand health and wellness, around plants in nature, it's really a measure of dosing. And if you understand the supporting science, at what age might it be counterproductive for neural development? So how do you enforce nobody under 25 getting it? How do you enforce the legality not have something weak to smoke because smoking in of itself, there's lots of lessons learned from out from tobacco. And so it's it's a process it's not a moment in time that either a legislator or a group of I'm sure very well meaning physicians would like to do legally. I would try to do everything you could to get the stymie of US federal prohibition off the books. So it may be something that is better handled after the USDA starts its conversation in early December, then I think you're gonna have a much better balanced picture. For Where do industry's interests align with health care's interests and I'm not saying healthcare industry now. I'd say, you know, the illicit industry, the guy with the the tie in the joint and the picture I showed from industry. When you have rulemaking and I did this for the state of Florida. I saw it because I was part of it. You have industry negotiating with healthcare, for the legal acceptance in the Senate from the legislators, and they're both vying you think they're both paying those those politicians for it, but that's where cannabis globally gets politicized by not only listening to physicians, but by listening to an industry. That is, as I said, a lot of lessons from tobacco and alcohol. You can sort of see it from my talk, as well as you can apply those lessons learned to cannabis. Our federal government in the US is about to deal with that in December, but in a stepwise way that's making it legal for research, education, and patient access, but under the advice, hopefully, of a trained specialists like a physician, and that's why right now you may want to hold back for just a little while. And see what evolves out of the US discussion coming up.

Speaker 7  1:38:09
Unfortunately, I think they're starting. I think it's ongoing. Well,

Speaker 1  1:38:14
and that's why I showed this slide of the cart getting ahead of the horse. And, you know, the process is it's sometimes backwards to the way we understand healthcare,

Speaker 7  1:38:25
or right. Here's another question, a safety of the CBD supplements that's being sold around. What are your thoughts on that? There's always like a supplement company out there that's CBD based are these safe to use?

Speaker 1  1:38:39
It all depends on what's in it. And that's where the difference of not just purity but labeling is different between a nutraceutical which is where key CBD now is in the United States versus a pharmaceutical. So part of it's the standards part of it. The other part is just do you believe what's in the bottle and whether it's as an oil or pills or anything else? These are chemicals that are not necessarily through that industry. revealed to the buyer. And I can tell you that we had a Miami Dade County Mayor event down in our farming communities that were going from nursery to nursery and an included a lot of you know plant people that are older people and an older lady I know who's 80 years old. was given a candy at one of these farm store type of you know places and she took it and before she got home she realized that the candy she had was an infused gummy. It was not only CBD or she would not have had the challenges getting home that she had. And that certainly is coming from an illicit industry here in Florida because we do have a legal medical program now here. So the labeling of those legal medical things is very different than what I've seen in our CBD here and I'm sure what's going on through Nevada, Nevada when it became legal in 2016 recreationally did so along with a few other states. And here's the interesting thing. You had states in 2016 that included Maine, Nevada, California you had Washington and Oregon. And those states were kind of special because they're all states were very few people live on their borders. Now remember, Colorado had already done that. And not many people live across Colorado's borders. But Nebraska was suing Colorado because it finds its way over state lines. That's my message to you. So one state can do an experiment. But when people bring it from state to state because they know they have a buying audience in the neighboring state where it's illegal. Those particular first states that I mentioned without many people living on their borders, I think had the Feds back saying well, let's see what happens there. It's probably not going to be a federal offense because of an entering a state where it's not legal. Well guess what surprise it did. And along with those five states, I've just mentioned there was actually a sixth state that here and that was Massachusetts. Why is that different? Millions and millions of people live directly across Massachusetts borders. And that's why through New England it spread almost like a virus starting in 2016. Because it does find its way over borders, even from Massachusetts now. You have neighboring Vermont, Vermont was the first state the following year that legalized it, but not through a ballot initiative with the citizens. Their legislators said hey, we're making it illegal here because their citizens were going to Massachusetts to buy it in Massachusetts and bring it back to Vermont anyway. So we're saying what do we need to enrich Massachusetts for let's have the cash flow stay here. So the legislators follow the money. And that's my point, not only here, alcohol did the same thing. And yet, I would anticipate that you will have the equivalent of what alcohol did when it came out of prohibition didn't mean that all 50 states initially jumped right in and said hey, we can sell it wherever we want. You had some states that would rather have continued selling and did selling moonshine while in some of those same states, you had communities who said not here, you know the you may have a religious objection or not on a Sunday, you can't buy alcohol that still exists there blue laws and it's part of the way that you get a global acceptance global Well, at least in our country, which I do think is going to be global, as the rest of the world follows the disposition we're basing here in the United States. Right.

Speaker 7  1:42:48
Okay. And last question would be cancer. Is it still Rick Simpson oil is very famous in this field. Is that still the go to or are there new, more newer modalities of CBD THC combinations that you have recommendations for?

Speaker 1  1:43:05
I think even if you ask Rick Simpson, he's going to say he's not so thrilled that his name is associated with everything. The bears his name is an oil. For those of you who aren't familiar. And this is not evidence based data. This is anecdotal driven. But when people have cancer and cancer pain in particular, cancer pain is not simply related to the physical manifestations of a pancreatic tumor, which is eating away your abdominal lining because of pancreatic enzymes. cancer pain affects you spiritually, mentally, psychologically, it's a death sentence that some people feel so they turned to cannabis not only for the hope, maybe faithful hope that it might somehow impact their their cancer process. But for all of the baggage that cancer as a diagnosis brings along psychologically and spiritually. It's very hard to separate out the intoxicating effects in helping pain from those effects that help the psychological or spiritual symptoms of pain. Remember this a moment Dr. Lin? Dr. Nora, excuse me. Pain is not a diagnosis for anything. It's a symptom of many diseases and injuries. And when you sell a drug as a treatment for pain, it's sort of a a priori misinformation for how you're looking at it. So if in fact, pain is an intolerable symptom, you do have diseases that bring along with it the intolerable symptoms when expressed psychologically and spiritually. That in terms of also memory impairment, is how cannabis cannabinoids including THC work it's not just one thing that attacks the cancer cells. Do you have some petri dish in vivo versus in vitro evidence of what cannabinoids do to cancer cells? Yeah. But that's a far cry from saying that you have controlled evidence based experiments for specific cancers. In human beings that it helps cure it. That's where the slippery slope of snake oil comes in. So at this moment, I think that's also one of the contributing reasons why we're Rick Simpson may not like his name associated with it, but still a lot of people die with cancer smoking pot all day. They may not have the same psychological or spiritual consequences. Maybe they die with a smile on their face. But I don't think you'll find convincing evidence based data for any cancers at this point, one cancer that I'm concerned about, and it's not a lethal thing, but it is technically a tumor cancer is actually psoriasis. Why? It's extra cells, they can't stop multiplying. It's a spreading cell disease multiplication process. Interesting thing I mentioned just in passing, but I'm going to correlate where I told you the genetics from the modern cannabis plant come from and I told you that the plant evolves at very high elevations, eastern slopes, the Himalayas, which are still going up every year, that part of the world is going up. The plant itself has oils, which is what we're dealing with, that actually protect the plant from UV radiation. It actually protects the plant in its native environment. The use of that oil to see are there protective things that can impact multiplying cells, not just simply as a sunblock, but to change the chemistry in what's happening on that skin for psoriasis for instance, really, technically, the cancer has spread up lethal and not necessarily malignant doesn't spread to anybody else. The way that that mechanism is found to work and strangely enough CBD can work with that too. It's not just the THC. It's the CBD here is through epi genetics. In other words, it's not getting into your genome from when you were born, and that works because you're born a human being. It actually has applied in changed some of the some of the genomes so that it can actually in that case, I think potentially it's quite exciting to think that cannabinoids may be the basis for a cure for psoriasis. Instead of all those creams they lather on. So dermatologically again, not systemically, but applying it to that particular body part even if it had a cancer, to me is more immediately suggesting that there could be certain cancers that it works for. But for cancer pain, say associated with pancreatic cancer since I gave that horrible example of a horribly painful cancer. I do feel that cannabis can make some of those patients last months, maybe years more tolerable, but don't think that it's going to cure your cancer with any fewer side effects than a Whipple procedure which can be kind of drastic at that point too. So I'm speaking partly as a surgeon, anesthesiologist, I'm not an oncologist nor a psychiatrist. But all of these fields of medicine can come together through not just cannabis for what it's known for having done in the past, but for what the NIH researchers said it could be doing in the future, potentially being therapeutic for almost all diseases known to affect man.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:38
Oh, that's all Thank you Doctor block. That was amazing talk.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:41
So you're welcome.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:42
Thank you Doctor block.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:43
Thank you. So

Bill Clearfield  1:48:44
the question to other can't Yeah, go ahead Shall

Unknown Speaker  1:48:52
I shall Okay,

Speaker 8  1:48:54
here's my question. And you know, I was a psych major that was my undergraduate degree. Why do some Jamaican healer it's called ganja you know, anambas the way to wisdom and think Solomon's grave? Is it considered psychologically therapeutic? And then I was gonna ask that scenario. Is there homeopathic potential in in you know, CBD and THC are different.

Speaker 1  1:49:26
Can you say the first part of your question? Again? I'm not sure I really understand

Speaker 8  1:49:31
why did they make an eel or it's called the wheat of wisdom on kings townlands. Graves. Why don't

Speaker 1  1:49:39
you have ties from ancient cultures including Rastafari in that are really using words like ganja? Yeah. Before cannabis was really more and I'm gonna say mainstream even in China 1000s of years ago. Yes, the first texts to reference it were Chinese texts. But a couple 1000 years later, and we're talking still 2000 years ago, it finally reached the Indian subcontinent. And in that culture, you had ganja was that's where we're talking about, that was regarded differently perhaps than in other places in the world. So Rastafari and as far as a religion that's based in Jamaica, largely associated with Black can be associated with the evolution of how cannabis spread around the world because even though it started in China, Asia, the Indian subcontinent, it found its way through the Middle East in Greece before getting to Europe than from Europe, including with Spanish colonialization and not just the Spanish, the Dutch, the Portuguese, Italians, all going to the New World and bringing hemp with them to every place they went, because that's what their chips relied on. All the riggings in the sales were made from hemp, so instantly, cannabis is planted all around the world because we brought it there with us to find a way to get back even Australia. Australia is a penal colony of the British in the 1780s. Right as the American Revolution, by the way, grown by the British here in the US colonial America. You got land if you grew hemp on your land, and it's not just hemp for the textile it was including the drug forms. Washington and Jefferson both grew them on their plantation, their farms, so where it went, as far as from here and other places. In the world, included through Africa, which brought slave trade in through Brazil, and in Brazil, because it was inexpensive, easy to grow, and we get people high. It was regarded as the opium of the Amazon. And we're going back hundreds of years in this part of the world. So it's hard to say that one country or culture has been stagnant for so long to where it just found its way there but certainly Jamaica has been associated with natural remedies that include cannabis gets commercialized. But here's a fact about Jamaica that I know because not only is my wife from Jamaica, but our first cousin is a senator in Jamaica and the people's National Party in charge of agriculture. In Jamaica, you would think with Bob Marley and what's called Nine miles nine miles whatever we're where his home was. It's a shrine. And the whole Marley aspect is a shrine about around ganja and weed, and all the religious things about it. But the law in Jamaica, where the education of their schoolchildren is very serious. School is mandatory in Jamaica, they use the British system of education. The kids all go in their uniforms. The Jamaican government because I told you our first cousin is a senator there are afraid of this getting into their kids because they know what happens. So they tried to keep it actually still outlawed at least keeping it away from kids as their minds are developing. It doesn't mean that all adults in all cultures and Bush people my my wife told me they're called what is it called? It's not pushed people. It's like plant healers or a way they refer to those people in the bush that have for centuries passed down these remedies. It was part of the culture,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:27
comments, comments.

Speaker 7  1:53:32
So, to answer your question about shaman there is a homeopathic version of the indica and even sativa. So it's out there. It's just not I don't think it's here in the US but internationally, I think it is available. So they're already doing it.

Speaker 1  1:53:52
And since Dr. Nereo mentioned the words indica and sativa. And I was very firm when I showed you the cannabis sativa on that first old picture of cannabis. They are all derived from cannabis sativa but those forms that are sativa are a different shape form and tend to have less mere seen and be less about the mind than the body. The sativa forms are regarded as being more energetic and uplifting, while indica forms are more well there's an expression indica could be substituted with the words in the couch. You stay couch locked, you're down you're not doing anything. You're sitting eating chips in your parents basement at age 35 Because of enjoying that indica for all the time. It is regarded by psychiatrists getting back to Dr. Leonard as part of a motivational syndrome. I'm sure you know people who can handle their three Martini lunch or come to work stone but you really don't know it. They've got tolerance by all of the downregulation from using it chronically. But you'll also find people who can't hold that to Martini lunch or anything like that, and so are subjected to the dose restrictions. They're the people who are looking for this as an escape moreso are interested in indica because it affects the hippocampus and amygdala more. It is memory impairment. And it also reduces fear and anxiety at the same time. So here's something I saw when I was in Colorado that I was a little appalled by because you hear of cannabis now with professional athletes, including the basketball player Brittney Griner, who was caught with it in Russia where it's illegal. But the NBA has had to deal with this even among their own players were in the state they may come from may have illegal in one state and they go play in another state. They can't bring it there. So what's the poor athlete to do? I went to a talk and I gave a talk in Colorado Denver about five years ago for the second or third time, and they have athletes there who were the spokesperson for football player old injuries. Things like that. Well, they had extreme athletes also talking about their use of cannabis to help them excel in their sport. So they showed a little videotape of an extreme athlete who came up and talk about how important it was. They could get their cannabis in Colorado in those days. And they were saying here watch. And you watch this extreme athlete jump off of a 3000 foot cliff wearing like a flying squirrel suit, you know, no motors or anything, just sort of these pseudo wings. And you wonder what type of Anzio lysis you have to do to have the courage to jump off of a precipice like that. There are certain abuses to relieving anxiety that get big press because it sounds impressive, but I'm not jumping off a cliff high or not.

Speaker 8  1:56:56
When I wanted to ask is you know the word wisdom, does it give resolution and understanding and, you know, solving an impasse and, you know, why do they associate wisdom?

Speaker 1  1:57:12
I'm gonna give you a these are some research that goes on at actually Stanford, Stanford and in New York does the most research on what parts of the brain can be impacted in ways that equate to and I'm not going to use the word wisdom. I'm going to use the word creativity in place of wisdom. Let's think of it almost as synonymous because finding a solution to a question or finding the right answer is what a lot of people would equate to risk wisdom. Creativity involves processes involving those central parts of the brain, hippocampus, amygdala boot centers, and it's largely dopamine driven. But remember, I told you before that even dopamine gets its fine control from cannabinoids dopamine at different levels, can either have divergent thought, or an expansive thought it's two parts of creative thought first, you have a whole bunch of different ideas, throw them out there, see what sticks and hey, maybe we'll work from that point or from this one. Well, then you have to consolidate everything that comes together in a sensible way. And dopamine is involved in those higher centers that I would equate to wisdom but through creativity. Do you think that a jazz artist creating something different every night because of the genius that's happening, is doing it just spontaneously? There's a reason that musicians and artists gravitate towards weed and other drugs to enhance that creativity? So I think it's involved but I don't think you can say that anybody or everybody that smokes weed becomes wise.

Speaker 8  1:59:00
I was thinking that it gives you insight on karmic relationships.

Speaker 1  1:59:07
I mean, created exotic thing. Insight is creativity, dopamine driven, same parts of the brain, same parts of the brain impacted by cannabinoids, although that system is dopamine driven. This is about all I know to tell you about where Stanford Research is doing with mapping out what parts of the brain contribute to things. Okay. You have also areas of parts of the brain that are known to correlate with addiction. And those are targets but which chemicals interact with them is where the future of this whole field is likely to evolve. healing

Speaker 8  1:59:44
potential is phenomenal. And I think that's very exciting. And also there has to be veterinary applications.

Speaker 1  1:59:57
Well, we are talking about healing because it's the very things that make you very battle a lot of people must regard it as being helpful for that.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:05
Bill diagnosed Dr. Siegel's new she can comment on that. Yeah, sir. Actually.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:13
We use quite a bit of CBD.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:17
And she's in Florida too. So

Speaker 1  2:00:23
thank you, Dr. Siegel. Do we know each other so?

Unknown Speaker  2:00:27
No, but we should we don't.

Speaker 1  2:00:31
We don't but if you got my email thereafter, I'd love to hear from your bills. You want to put it in the chat box? Either one, the University of Miami, nurturing nature. It's docblock people. That's what people have an EOC block. And it's either@miami.edu or the company name I've had for a long long time is nurturing nature. Actually, that's a good phrase nurturing nature. It's a little tongue twister, but that really in a sense is describing what cannabinoids do they nurture your nature to let you deal more favorably with natural consequences of diseases and injuries.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:15
I hope I got this right.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:18
And that's dot com though. That's nurturing. nature.com and

Bill Clearfield  2:01:21
it should be it should be dark. Sorry, got dark block block too many caves there. Dark block and

Speaker 1  2:01:30
nurturing nature. That's an easy one to misspell too.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:33
I got the doc wrong. I got D O CK. Sorry about that. So so we do have I mean we have a couple of regular cannabis. We have a grower. Unfortunately, neither a Miranda night and we have one who's who's sort of made a career out of out of prescribing cannabis in Maine. So I take it you're not seeing patients and prescribing this, you know, prescribing cannabis and you just said

Speaker 1  2:02:01
the magic word bill but you can't prescribe it until it technically comes become scheduled three illegal any state including Maine to prescribe so we all the states in their measures, and laws, use words like recommend. Florida even uses the word order in the law, but it's getting around the word prescribe. Because that would in fact, violate the Controlled Substances Act and put you in trouble. So

Bill Clearfield  2:02:33
I won't mention any names but if you go to wha go to our website aos or de.org/webinars and put in cannabinoid or cannabis, the videos about two years ago, I think there should be one or two videos about our person who recommended roll call it recommend, recommends recommends Dustin

Unknown Speaker  2:02:54
Souillac is

Unknown Speaker  2:02:55
talking about.

Speaker 1  2:02:57
I didn't really mention any names you know it's okay, why not? He he's got a good practice there. It's called healer. Anybody wants to look up what he does. He has turned it into a successful business. And he's a different generation than you and I are bill but that's where the ponytail and the swagger he has a following. And main like I said, was one of the first states in 2016 to let recreational cannabis be there. But well before then. I've known him well before that. He was doing it medically when Maine became available to where he could not prescribe it but recommended medically and he tracks data. That's the important thing. He has a large enough following, including other physicians that work with him, where he is actively tracking data and does some really good work. But, again, his background is not coming from where I am as an anesthesiologist. He certainly is not a psychiatrist or things but he is attune and sensitive to the way patients in Maine are using it. And he's trying to help. Right, that's normal.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:03
Right. Okay. And then you know, Kent Crowley has a company where he's, you know, he's developed a delivery system the trophy, which is little, little,

Speaker 1  2:04:13
although Kant is not on tonight's call. He's been the person who's connected us years ago, right? And he's still a personal friend trophy is his company TR okay, i e. And a trophy is a French word for a Lawson. So his whole practice his whole product is a dissolvable product that is in your mouth and it's time released. So that after several minutes through the vascular absorption the same way we said you can get what nitroglycerin in your system quickly. mouth and even suppositories can deliver faster than say, ingestion ingestion when you eat cannabis goes through a different process. First of all, it takes longer half hour an hour before some people feel anything. But then it goes through your liver metabolism which it doesn't through sublingual or for smoking. And when it does that, delta nine THC is converted by the liver to hydroxy 11 THC, which is approximately four times stronger and lasts four times longer. So a naive user doing an edible for the first time may think oh well I didn't feel anything right away. I'll have another one or another one whether it's a cookie or brownie a gummy. When you ingest these things, your night hasn't started but about an hour later it will and then if you have enough like that, the whole rest of your night is maybe not going to be a fun time because of that paranoia. And every weekend. We will see people in our hospital ers coming in. And that kind of the setting where a coed and a high school, high school couple go out they go to a party. Maybe the girl doesn't, you know do anything or never has tried it before and some of the guys are drinking or having a joint or even a gummy or even you know dabbing which is a more concentrated form. And somebody says here you know why don't you just try a cookie Okay, I'll try anyway tries when nothing happens an hour later a second one and then as everybody else is getting ready to leave her nights just starting. Go to the ER after that. If you ever want to see a lively er, watch what happens when Daddy gets called in the boyfriends bring in the girlfriend and out of her mind. There's sometimes quite lively scenes and emergency rooms with those kinds of side effects from parties and edibles in particular.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:44
I don't know like when I used to be an OBGYN and we would have to tell the the fathers that they're you know, 16 year old is going to be a mother. Oh boy. Okay, well, Jeff great as always, it was always good to check in with you. And any any any like Final Thoughts any any like wrap up summary. We always like a little. Yeah,

Speaker 1  2:07:12
I gave you a date of I think December 1 through the way the DEA is going to stay stuff that could be impactful but it's not going to end there. The rulemaking is a time consuming and politicized process. It probably will have impact depending on who's in the White House next. And yet I've just said it is a process. It's none of these things we're talking about is a moment in time, any different than when I cited 10,000 years ago with archaeological evidence of it. People use it, people abuse it except that and try to make the most of it without putting a timeline on any of this, including the politics can see it'll continue to evolve.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:54
Okay. Okay, great. So just a couple of housekeeping issues. We have our CME a provider is back after a two month hiatus. So I have I have been putting it in here, every couple of reels here. So it's right here. Ee D s.com/em/ninety 315. I'll put it in the email, that next week's email if you want to, if you want to if you want to click on that, it's $30 it doesn't go to us. It's it's $30 for two CME credits. Jeff, you did a great job of not mentioning brand names except for one little tiny slip let that go. And what much better than we usually get anyway, so the CME credits are back I'm gonna see if we can get the the ones that we missed there. It wasn't us it was the it was the CME provider. I don't I don't even know what the issue was but the for to the last one we had was in June. So we're back. July August. It's almost three months I guess. So so we do have that. And any, any, anybody have any? Like I said, I I'm coming up at the end of October at AMG in Salt Lake City. I'm going to be talking about longevity. I've been inspired by Ross Pelton. And we'll be talking about rapamycin there for that group. And a few other things if you want to know about some more benign ways to increase your lifespan. Dr. Quinn, we got anything this this week.

Speaker 9  2:09:41
No, nothing happened in this week with John Burgess and all that I think he sent out an email but if I could have like 30 seconds, make a quick comment here. Dr. Blog, I was absolutely brilliant stuff. The thing that that I consider very bizarre is this scheduling dropped to schedule three and maybe you can help with this. Hopefully there's a whole new mechanism here because as we all know, schedule three is stuff like acetaminophen and codeine. If you want to prescribe that. Are you going to have to have a DEA license if this drops to schedule three? Who is going to carry this? Our local pharmacy is going to carry this and where are they going to get it? Who is going to grow the specific chemo VARs who's going to submit the certificates of analysis who's going to submit the heavy metal testing, the Miko testing all of that kind of stuff? How is this monster going to take place? If it's a schedule three drug I can't see any wholesalers going out there and trying to get this and as you know the pharmacies now you buy everything from wholesalers. One of the groups that were members of its Dr. Su lacs group, the Society of cannabis clinicians, there's a proposal by one of the guys there to actually create a schedule six for this, which would have certain constraints and hopefully it's like you said that 25 years and younger Do not touch. But there would be a way maybe to monitor and control it in a different manner. Again, if you have any insight on how the nuts and bolts of this would would work or they propose it's going to work. You can't just say oh, it's scheduled three. You know, I'd be interested to hear well,

Speaker 1  2:11:34
first of all, I've been waiting for a change out of prohibition, regardless of where it lands and because I just told you and emphasize Dr. Point, that it's a process. It's a stepwise process, step wise to schedule to by comparison, because I know you're not thinking that way. But I'm telling you the way I'm thinking is a huge difference in schedule one simply because it facilitates your education and research for me. That's not a baby step.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:03
That's a huge push. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  2:12:05
But the problems with the schedules are scheduled to still has significant constraints for access for research, and that as well as interstate commerce, while schedule three doesn't. Schedule three for interstate commerce is where it needed to land because of industry, really demanding it, because otherwise there wouldn't be an industry if it got stuck in two. Does that mean that it should immediately go to four and five? Well, CBD quickly went from five and then D scheduled, but I don't see that happening with THC, which is by definition marijuana. So where will it go different states? I know about the society of cannabis clinicians I did a CME product for them. And actually I reviewed their CME product which now I think they have a six hour course. But I was asked to edit that before it came out and there were some parts that needed it editing. However, I will say that they have provided their input. Here's my comment about that being in Florida. It is decidedly West Coast mentality. And in Nevada to Bill and you know, Dr. Leonard, people who are in different places in our country are getting used to what they can do legally in their own confined state. I don't see that the feds are going to pay attention and say, Oh is by far the best program in the world is California's versus one states or another states they'll have to take what I hope will come out of it were the best ideas from each one that promote purity, who's going to be able to farm it out like you said, what things will be allowed to what age people but in some situations, when you have something that doesn't obey state line boundaries, you need federal guidance. And even though this is a step wise first step, it's not a baby step at all because it will usher in a whole new generation of healers like you like me, that will understand that as a medicine and it still gets stuck as being something illicit bad, you know, morally not not sound. Gotta gotta get past that if only because we're healers and our patients in real life, we're using it to test stuff that's not consistent with what's being used is not real research. It has been researched. Exactly. So so the ability to research this far more aggressively and real time by moving it to schedule three not to and not getting ahead of itself by federal intolerances to four or five or just making it completely legal to everybody for anything is a measured first step that to me makes a lot of sense at this point in time.

Speaker 9  2:14:57
No, that's yeah, very very good comment. Very, very good. Tom. I think when we talk about you know, the schedules and abuse potential, I think that's why they dropped Epidiolex that stuff is you know, it it's an isolate CBD isolate. It's not very powerful. It takes a whole lot of have to do anything and it's expensive and I don't think anybody is going to abuse that. So maybe that was one of the keys, I don't know.

Speaker 1  2:15:27
CBD is unique in of itself, because its safety profile, from therapeutic dose depending on what the therapeutics are. If you're going to look at the therapeutic dose to side effects, you know, the normal balance as we have with something that in low doses, okay, but in iDose, watch out. If you look at that the kids were Epidiolex is specifically approved for they generally need pretty high doses. And it's expensive because of all that high dose. That's not to say that all other indications require that high of the dose

Speaker 9  2:16:01
No, THC you know is that that kind of drives the bus as you say the CBD the negative allosteric allosteric modulator kind of has a big effect on a THC, right. So

Speaker 1  2:16:13
that's why the two is why I wanted to show you that ancient field in Lebanon, where you had fields that have evolved under human use for 1000s of years before that, to have balancing amounts between CBD and THC. That's a very important lesson to learn of how we've screwed up the plant since I screwed up because it's not only about THC, as a matter of fact, another point that you need to know about the raw plant versus the one that's ignited. When of course start with the native plant. It's actually an acid acids. And when you decarboxylate by lighting it up, you actually activate that delta nine THC and make it something that will get you high. So that chemical reaction happens but then you have people who want to take it and actually ingest it not not that your stomach acid doesn't do things to But therein lies the rub between a pharmaceutical and a nutraceutical or an edible and other side effects that we really didn't have the time to get into. When I started the talk I said it's complicated patients with with waiting for these complicated questions to be answered, which hopefully you're not going to be as complicated sounding answers now that you've had some background. That's that's when the discoveries have been made. And I don't know your age, but you've got a gray beard. I had one that I took off a few years ago. That was great too. Yeah. And by the way, somebody was talking where Andy is I missing his beer tonight. That's John Burgess for those of you who know him and he's been a really good you know, I can't say fan but person who I've had good conversation.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:56
I'm a fan doctor. You are.

Speaker 1  2:17:58
Somebody said before. All right. Okay. Hi, Andy.

Speaker 10  2:18:03
We have you we have Dr. Quinn, cat and Dustin, you know, so that's a pretty high ranking group there.

Speaker 1  2:18:11
I don't know about that. We come from different worlds. We come from different states. And that's I guess my point Dr. Quinn, depending on the lens of practice that you have where you're practicing medicine, you may have different tolerances for what you would like to see evolved from a federal level. The jury's still out on that, but it's going to be part of an interesting conversation that will extend well into next year.

Speaker 9  2:18:36
Yeah, but of course, the one thing I can't really get past is the different chemo VARs and as Dr. Leonard said, you know, people refer to it as it you know, cannabis, it, we got to test it, we got to have research on it. It as you know, it's not an IT with over like 120 different cannabinoids. The differences are gastronomical. I don't know Do you have a thought? I'm

Speaker 1  2:19:02
gonna interject a moment. That's exactly the reason that the society of cannabis clinicians was suggesting a schedule six because the Controlled Substances Act was devised by in through Big Pharma where the patents have to occur with single molecules. Yes, what? From 1970? You had an industry that's based on finding one molecule to treat one disease because it has one patent knowing they have the next patented molecule when it comes out of its patent time and becomes generic. So that's the business end of this. However, the difference here is that cannabis doesn't cleanly fit into a one molecule model. So schedule six is acknowledging what you're bringing up but it's not only cannabinoids, of which is well over 100, but dozens of terpenes to impact the perception of what the user is getting. So there you have what is really the main rub in terms of how the Feds research this. If you're going to research things at a federal level for the FDA approval, you've got to in combination drugs, remember, we talked about epi dialects, but there's another drug from the same company. That's the one that's used in countries around the world about 30 countries. Sativex. And that particular the big symbols bill, sorry, big some big symbols. That's a combination of CBD and THC, which in equal amounts is shown to help the muscle spasms associated with Ms. That's evidence based data that's substantial. Our government hasn't yet taken that into their recognition space, but 30 Other countries have. Yeah, the interesting thing there is very clearly in that companies instructions are you start low and you go slow, which is one of Justin's favorite statements, okay. And that makes sense with any medicine that you use the go slow part is what's sometimes a challenge when you don't have the next lowest amount available, because all you see in the stores are these super concentrates. So how much is a Super Concentrate? Well. A naive user will be able to sense as little as two and a half milligrams of THC. And if we're talking states which have it you should know this. Certainly five milligrams. Almost everybody who's never used it will sense that pen so much more. So the lowest effective dose may be as low as two and a half where their perception here happens even though it may not do anything to your body, at least your mind if it perceives it may help some things in today's concentrates of 25% by dry weight little flower pieces. I'm holding up a pencil here. That eraser tip could have many many milligrams of THC in it. If you want to get two and a half milligrams out of that you're gonna take that eraser and divide it almost in 10 pieces. How are you going to give somebody a piece that small and say tell me how this works. There are companies that are manufacturing delivery devices that even through vaporization can take a tiny little aliquot like that. And through the electronics of an inhalation device, make it so that you always deliver the same amount. It's not what's in the in the belief. It's what you're actually getting in there. So that company's name was psych S A P S Y QE years ago, it was a Israeli researcher who developed the electronics for it. The initial ones must have been incredibly expensive. But guess who bought that? almost 10 years ago at least eight years ago. Altria Big Tobacco bought it because they knew it could be very informed. Either they bought it to keep it out of the business, or to be able to use it when things got legal. And I'm gonna say this about the ending of prohibition. Relative to alcohol when people were ready for the end of alcohol prohibition. Those people that were not ready to accept federal guidelines and restraints were almost made a parody of now what do I mean, when you had a new industry developing? And I'll tell you what company went into business immediately upon the end of prohibition Seagrams, the same company that's in business today. They knew that they would have to play along or follow the federal guidelines to be successful. As business. And yet you had those states and those people who were stuck on moonshining moonshiners how many parodies are there of a toothless moonshine are holding up a triple X joke? They became husbands. That's not where this industry is going. But that's what you should expect. As far as companies looking to do things in accordance with federal guidelines. And not be grudgingly say, I don't want this anymore. I've got a friend who has a company that had to deal with the realities of the state that they're in accepting strict standards when they were used to doing it, just according to whatever they thought they could do. And you know, what their biggest complaint was it wasn't their testing and their reporting. You mean I have to put in handicap ramps in my business now. That was it. Was it so you have industries concerns for overhead expense and what they can do, that they get spoiled by, versus companies that are going to be going into this business that are going to embrace those federal regulations? Because that's the key to business success, and there will be a lot of business success through cannabis.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:55
Not very good.

Bill Clearfield  2:24:57
Okay, John, you got any other words of wisdom for us?

Unknown Speaker  2:25:01
Just appreciate Dr. Block as usual. Thank you, Andy.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:06
Yeah, there'll be such a stranger Now, Jeff.

Speaker 1  2:25:09
I don't mean to be I like the other people that you have, especially can choose traveling today. That's why he's not on the call. But he knows what we're doing. And he keeps up with me as you do. And I appreciate your you're having at least the confidence in me to let me present CME approved content. Oh, sure. Anytime, thank you, so we're well beyond the two hours that people will get. Get we're in a two and a quarter hours. So I'm gonna sign off.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:32
Okay. All right. Thank you so much, sir. Thank you.

Speaker 1  2:25:35
Bye, everybody. Dr. Siegel. Now you know how to reach me. pleasure to speak with you. Bye.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:40
Thank you. So, like I said the CME credits are back it's in the chat. I'll put it in the email for next week. Also. I'm not going to put this video on YouTube because then we get, you know, we get our hand slapped, because if it's cannabis, so it'll just be on our own website. Maybe I'll start a rumble Cheshire we start a rumble channel. I think it's okay on there. So let's, you know, YouTube is whatever. Anyway, so any comments, questions anybody else have any anything they'd like to add? That was quite a bit as well to promote

Speaker 7  2:26:27
a friend women's hormones October 7 20. So be one of the junior faculty there. If you want to ask for more details, contact me or just go to a brand website.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:39
That's what October seventh right? Yes, up to one it's one line. It's two was a two weeks online or three? That was two weeks. Two weeks online? Is there CME credits for that?

Speaker 7  2:26:52
Um, that's a good question. I'm gonna ask but I'm with the superstars of a firm or their Haman, Sahara, Sudan, Jordan, Dottie, and even Dr. Scott. So these are regular hormone lectures or faculties.

Bill Clearfield  2:27:07
Okay. Okay, great. And I know Yeah, and don't forget September 27. It's eight it's 10am to 2pm. Eastern time, so do the math wherever you are. Doctor, Zara's. Homeopathic is sort of like the homeopathic clinic classic homeopathic principles. I'm going to do a half hour on history of homeopathy. I guess it'll be okay. And so if if you're interested in that, that is in our email flyer also. And there's there's a link to it and it's normally $150 She She was charging for it but it's half price for our group. So if you just mentioned our name, either aos i am, we're just my name that we sent you. Then or Dr. Nereo you'll get the half price if you're interested in that. And you know if you're interested in sort of like the just the the beginning principles of homeopathy. She's she's pretty good at that. She seems to know what she's talking about. So, so. So with that, John, thanks for being here. Again. As always, we're going to sign off and I'll have the video up on the AOS rd website. I'm not going to put it on YouTube this week. Because of you know the home of the free in the land of the brief. And CME credits are good. Anybody has any questions? If you have anything you want to want to present please let me know. I have Dr. Byerly next week and I forget what He's present. So I'll have it for you in this week's email. So thanks everybody. I'm I'm actually on East Coast time for one so I don't know if I like getting done this late this late hour. It's better it's better off in LA time. So the one thing I did want to mention to Dr. Block because he said he mentioned that you know cities and states with that were that we're sort of close to high population areas. So he has he doesn't, hasn't done you know, he needs to know his geography of Reno. I mean, my office is 10 miles from the California border. So, so we're right there. And right and Dr. Quinn, you're I mean you're in Las Vegas, so you're kind of right there too, right.

Speaker 9  2:29:27
So, exactly. Yeah, but I'm an old Californian anyway.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:31
Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay. Good night, everybody. And again, anybody has anything want to present hint hint? Dr. Siegel? Let me know.

Speaker 11  2:29:43
together a really cool lecture for the ESA conference. I'm going to Thailand in a couple of weeks. And yeah, maybe I'll present that.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:50
You might need you might need to try it out. Yeah, yeah, that'd be awesome. Right. You know, we can use this as practice. So

Speaker 11  2:29:58
I do have something exciting to share. I have been asked to co produce a documentary on pet longevity and biohacking. So how cool is that going to be in that I'll be part of the red carpet launch for the biohacking. I guess red carpet in in Vegas during a forum. Great. Okay. So I get to meet you all in person. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  2:30:25
yes, absolutely. And you know, if you can put a plug in for us, that wouldn't hurt. Oh, yeah. You tell me. That's okay to

Speaker 11  2:30:33
tell me how I can do that. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  2:30:37
I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you offline.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:40
Perfect. All right.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:41
Thank you guys. It was amazing.

Bill Clearfield  2:30:43
Thank you. Okay, thank you all. Thank everybody. Everybody who just knew everybody from the Philippines. Thank you for being here as always, and if you have something present, let me know Dr. Renza. I know you're there lurking and Eagles game last night was sick. Super Bruce. Thanks for being here, John. As always Dr. Nereo and we'll be back next week. And when you come to the office, you can teach me about female hormones because it's your part of the faculty. Alright, so Goodnight, everybody.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai