Unknown Speaker  04:05
Dr, Bill,

Unknown Speaker  04:06
hey, Ken,

Unknown Speaker  04:07
how are you?

Bill Clearfield  04:09
Okay? When are we going to get together and talk about your your patient,

Speaker 1  04:13
which one I don't even I don't even remember which one there's I sent the

Bill Clearfield  04:28
one, the last one,

Unknown Speaker  04:31
Dennis DeLucia.

Bill Clearfield  04:32
No, not him, the lady, somebody named Fox. Maybe I

Speaker 1  04:46
Not, not. Laura Howard Fox, yeah. Laura Howard, yeah, there was Laura Howard, yeah, I thought there was somebody else too that needed something. I talked to Dennis Howard, yeah. Laura Howard is is just a mess. She went to Cleveland Clinic. It was a waste of time for the pancreas specialist didn't think she had pancreatic insufficiency. Definitely ruled out a cancer or an itis. Had a negative SIBO test, but I don't know if that is, you know, what percent are positive and negative? You know, I just don't have a lot of experience with testing. For SIBO, you

Bill Clearfield  05:53
sent me a bunch of tests that I having a hard time interpreting,

Speaker 1  05:57
actually, well, you would ask for everything. So I said, I

Bill Clearfield  06:02
know, but I was having a hard time actually interpreting what they said. Hello, Mary Ellen, how Elaine, how are you? I'm good. How are you, okay? How are things in W old, WB,

Unknown Speaker  06:17
you know, same old, same old,

Bill Clearfield  06:19
same old, same old, yeah, so Germany,

Speaker 1  06:27
yeah, so Wednesday is a good time. If you've got any time on Wednesday,

Bill Clearfield  06:36
I'll check when I get get a minute. Okay, okay, so, so tell us all about Germany while we're waiting Doctor Nario, Alright,

Speaker 2  06:48
sure. So there you would be surprised that when I actually met ortho surgeons, ob gyns, all different specialties, neurosurgeons that are doing homeopathy, it's something that's like an everyday thing for them. And also, you know, muscle testing, the thing that we're seeing, yes, yeah, they're all doing it. And this ortho surgeon actually was telling us on how to use it in terms of assessing how fast healing is happening from with his post op patients, and you'll be, yeah, you'll be scratching your head if you do that here in the US. And these are actually conventionally trained physicians, and they're promoting this. And when you go to the booths that they have over there, there's a lot of machines that are what we call energetically based, or energy medicine based. So I don't know if you saw, I think you mentioned this before you work with a chiropractor who's doing the EAB machine. You remember that? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:51
there's a couple of them. There's one you put your hand on something, and it's supposed to tell you, you know, all of your energetic deficiencies. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  08:00
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  08:01
I think, yeah. ZYTO, right,

Speaker 2  08:05
yeah, ZYTO. So this is something that is an everyday thing for them. So when you go to this convention, it's not like when you see a for m, you see a lot of supplements. You would see a lot of these devices. I need a lot of well, this one, these are, you're seeing doctors. They're really, like, conventionally trained, way, clamoring for this. They want these machines, you know, dowsing rods. You know what those are? Yeah. So dowsing rods are also being used during the assessments of, like, their physical exams, and they're teaching us how to if I could understand him in German, I would love to, but I just see them holding on to rods and saying that, hey, use this along with your, you know, the medicines that you're prescribing. So but it's really fascinating that it's totally different from the a 4m exhibit room when you go there, because there's a lot of these homeopathic herbal really herbal, herbal stuff, not just supplements. And here's a here's the thing, you know, wakanuga, the garlic, hKo the garlic. Yeah, so I saw the company there in Europe, so I told them, hey, we have that in the States. And she laughed at me, saying that, nope, you don't have this there. And it's the same it's the same it's the same bottle. It's the same brand. What are you talking about? Nope, because you guys have the contaminated version of Bucha nuga. Because the version that they have over there, the they have, they didn't allow certain ingredients to be introduced into that product. And she actually told me, in my in my face, that? Oh yeah, America likes to use these dangerous substances that we don't like in our products, and we don't allow that here, so we definitely sell more of this to people who wants cleaner products. So as you can see, that's another evidence for you on how strict the the supplement world over there is versus it's like the wild, wild west, if you know about that.

Bill Clearfield  10:05
Yeah, we had gotten some water or internet orders over there in Germany, and they sent them back. They wouldn't let them in,

Unknown Speaker  10:15
right? So they're pretty Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:17
both ways.

Speaker 1  10:19
They actually consider something over the counter as prescriptions. They have to have a written prescription.

Speaker 2  10:29
Oh, Kent, here's something for you too. So you're a pharmacist I go to. So every corner there's a pharmacy. The thing there is, when you go into a pharmacy, the you're not going to see the first, the first shelves that you would you would see expecting here with going to CVS and Walgreens. You would see your ibuprofen, Tylenol. When you go into these pharmacies in Germany, you would see first homeopathic remedies. And you're going to ask them, Where are the ibuprofens? Oh, they're in the back in a very small section. And majority of what they're selling are natural products, herbs, homeopathic remedies. This is a totally different it's like a reverse of what we have over here. And that's a pharmacy at a normal pharmacy where you're bringing your prescription

Speaker 1  11:14
in. So I've seen it. It's, it's remarkable. It

Speaker 2  11:20
is. It's amazing. So, and one of the highlights of this, this conference also is okay. I don't know if I can talk about this. It's, can I talk about this? Dr Bill, yeah, we're still

Bill Clearfield  11:31
not. We're not on yet. And our speakers waiting with bated breath here, though, oh dear. Start. You know, pretty close to five o'clock. We, we have folks filter in till 530 or so. So why don't, Why don't she? She looks like she's ready to go here. So why don't we? Why don't we introduce her and we'll, we'll hold that for when I

Speaker 2  11:54
know she's in New Zealand. So, yeah, you're in New Zealand.

Unknown Speaker  11:58
I'm in New Zealand. Yes.

Bill Clearfield  12:00
Oh, okay. So what is it like? One in the afternoon there or something? Yeah, it's

Unknown Speaker  12:04
2pm It's not so bad, alright?

Bill Clearfield  12:06
It's not so bad. It's not like, not like there are people in Vienna. We have some folks in Vienna that's like, four in the morning or three in the morning. So, so I hope I pronounced your name correctly. So this is Siobhan Mitchell, did I get that, right? Yes, right. Okay, that's pretty good. And so Dr Mitchell is with, she's going to, she's with Mito Q. I know a lot of us know what that is. A lot of us use that. And she's the chief scientific officer. She has a PhD in neuroscience from SUNY Albany. I know where that is. She has 60 papers published on Nutritional Neuroscience, and she's had roles with tell us about the having, having worked with Pepsi and Nestle's seems like, it seems like the other side of the tracks. She's conducted research trials in Europe, North America, Asia and on the effects of nutrition on cognitive decline, mood and performance. She gives talks on nutrition at conferences all over the world. She holds seven patents on mood and cognitive food products, and today, she's going to talk to us about cognitive preservation, which those of us that are maturing. As you can see, it's silver, not, not, not gray, mitochondrial approaches to supporting aging brain. So mitochondrial dysfunction is a it's a big topic these days. That's one of those sort of buzz words. So, Dr Mitchell, thank you so much for being here. We're truly grateful. We'll let people in. You won't you won't even know there are we do like to tape it, if that's okay. If we can refrain from before we start, if you want to talk about your company and what your products are, and then when you're ready to begin your program, if we can do generics, then we can get CME credit for it. And then when we're done, we'll shut the video off, and then you can speak freely. Okay, so Dr, Mitchell, thank you. Thank you for being with us. We're truly grateful to have you with us.

Speaker 3  14:16
Cool. And I don't think I'm going to talk too much about you know, Mito Q, the company or products at the beginning, so I'll save that all for the end, and also happy to take questions on it. So I'll just start sharing my screen, and then hopefully we can just dig into all the data. So

Bill Clearfield  14:34
So Thursday, I'm doing you know you? I'm sure you must know Lisa Tamati. She's a podcaster there in New Zealand. So necronario has been on so Thursday, I'm she's running a longevity Summit, and I'm speaking on that. So there Thursday at four o'clock. Hard time anyway. So they're

Speaker 3  14:56
very interested in longevity here, I must say, so it's almost, I would say a little bit more kind of innovation focused, so it's kind of cool. Yep, can everyone see my screen? Yes,

Speaker 2  15:10
it's not in in full screen mode, though.

Speaker 3  15:15
Oh, it's not because it's been slideshow mode for me.

Speaker 2  15:20
It can work for you if you want to do it this way, but it's just not like the full show.

Speaker 3  15:26
Yeah, no, I'd rather have it work. Let me just figure out why that's not working for you guys. So when I do this, it's still looking like a regular just PowerPoint with all the sort of, you know, file and all the rest on it, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  15:43
yeah. Is it a Mac that you're using or

Speaker 3  15:47
no, it's just a regular PC. Let me see if I can do PowerPoint slide show instead and see how that looks. Is that better? There?

Unknown Speaker  15:56
There you go.

Speaker 3  15:58
Cool. Okay, okay, we're all set. So thank you for the introduction. So I am Siobhan Mitchell. I'm the CSO of Mito Q. I do hold a PhD in neuroscience, and I will just quickly tell you that I became passionate about mitochondria during my postdoc. So I was working a lot on brain aging, which is another big passion of mine from like, I would say, you know, it was very small. But what I really figured out during my postdoc, I was working with a whole aging group there, including people like Matt caberlin, that, you know, the secret of better aging for the brain, pretty much the rest of the body, is through the mitochondria. So I became obsessed with the mitochondria, and also really trying to understand, like, how nutrition affected the mitochondria, because that seemed a way better route to mitochondrial health than a lot of drugs. So hopefully you can get some insights here and get my passion as well. I do think mitochondria is a very kind of trending topic right now, as people realize it's a big LinkedIn and a lot of different diseases. So let's get into it for Alzheimer's. So this slide right here is really just a framework to start off with about what are we talking about with cognitive decline? Obviously, there's Alzheimer's, which is 10% of people over 65 will get that and have that diagnosed. And then there's mild cognitive impairment, which is 12 to 18% of people over 65 getting that diagnosis. But it's really clear the disease, the decline is happening way before these diagnoses. And it's What can you do then? So I am really going to focus on that kind of pre clinical stage before you get the MCI and ad, I will say that I think a lot of the therapies I'll talk about today definitely apply to someone with Alzheimer's or MCI. But just as I said, it's there to capture them as early on as possible, I'm sure you'll all agree. So without further ado, I'll go to the next slide and just talk about, usually, the way people realize that they're in, you know, probability of cognitive decline, or even Alzheimer's, and that's through these biomarkers. And I'm sure everyone's really familiar with, you know, the neurocognitive testing that's used to diagnose Alzheimer's, like MMSE, and there's also the PET scan, which is the gold standard, looking at amyloid in the brain. And that's has been traditionally, thought of as the way that you actually diagnose someone with Alzheimer's. Now that's changing, of course, there's a lot of other ways. So CSF amyloid is now being accepted, and quite interestingly, you know, a lot of biomarker blood tests are really starting to become very specific, and can be used as well too, though not quite yet. But it's also important to just realize that there's lots of other tests that should be looked at to know if you're at risk for cognitive decline, like thyroid testing, various nutrient testing heavy metals. And so the chart on the right, I would say, is very familiar with people realizing, you know, all these kinds of trajectories of biomarkers like CSF and cognition. You know, you only start to notice them once you actually get into that mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's stage. But I would say mitochondria are maybe the most early kind of thing that you could see going wrong, and might be something that you would target to perhaps fix that cognitive decline. And I can give you lots of examples of for instance, you know, people that have had some sort of like Alzheimer's biomarker, but also, you know, showing mitochondrial deficiencies at the same time. And even people that have not shown any Alzheimer's biomarkers, you know, like creased amyloid showing mitochondrial dysfunction in, say, their white blood cells or their CSF. So this is really starting to be a way to understand if people are going towards that path, and so to kind of quickly go into a little bit of the blood testing that I just talked about. I think the most interesting one right now is passivity ad two, which has been designated a breakthrough device by the FDA. It's been now developed to have an up to 91% accuracy for diagnosing Alzheimer's. This is a paper that just came out in Gemma this year, and this is based on a ratio of amyloid 42 and 40 and then also phosphorylated tau, 217, so what is really kind of thought of right now is, you know, the way to use a tool like this, is that okay? You know, if you're really early on, you're not showing any symptoms, maybe this shouldn't be like tested on you, but I would say it does actually makes sense to have people have the opportunity to know what their amyloid status is, so they can do something as early as possible. But then, since this is not usually, I would say, you know, the most sort of used route. First, you know, using these kind of blood tests. The next thing to do is look at some of these genotypes, so this Alzheimer's risk phenotypes, and then the next thing to do is look at mitochondrial function. And I would say, traditionally, there hasn't been a lot of mitochondrial tests, like direct mitochondrial function tests that we can use. But luckily, this is changing. So for instance, there's a testing by, you know, lab core and other kinds of big sort of lab testing companies to look at TDF 15, which is a mitochine, indicating mitochondrial stress. And this has been implicated and shown to be increased in long COVID, diabetes, metabolic syndrome and also cognitive decline recently. And then another one that's actually directly looking at mitochondrial function, so looking at the Oxy phosphorylation, looking at production looking at oxidative stress, is me screen. And the way this is done is through a blood card. So you just prick a finger, you spot some blood on this card, you send it off to this lab. And this is actually going to give you a full panel of mitochondrial functions. So I think this is super interesting for people to start to use more to have that understanding of like this is someone who's showing a mitochondrial decline really early. You know what kind of things we can do to to help fix that. Another one that's also in the market, that's, you know, commercially available, is mitoswap. It does somewhat the same thing. It takes basically cheek swabs of cells, and then you can send those cells off to get mitochondrial sort of function testing. But this is a lot more, I would say, iffy, because you have to kind of send it very quickly. These cells are, you know, very kind of vulnerable to damage. So I would say it's a little less accurate than the screen. Now I just want to talk quickly about other ways you can assess you know that patient at risk. You know, what can you look at first? And a lot of these will be really familiar, obviously, advancing age, family history. The ones I'm going to talk about most today are nutritional deficiencies, of course, like magnesium and B vitamins, blood sugar, regularities, elevated homocysteine, viral infections, menopausal symptoms. But, you know, this is, I think, something where there's just lists and lists of things you can start to look at. But I would say the mitochondrial kind of focus really makes me want to pay attention to these. I do also want to point out, though, that recently the Landsat, you know, so they have a commission that is looking at, you know, those factors, those major lifestyle factors, that are linked to dementia risk. And I thought it was interesting that they've, you know, kind of released these lists before, but some that have been added on recently is hearing impairment, and so that's contributing now up to 7% of risk. And I thought that was really fascinating, because I don't know if this is something people look at really early on. It's not the first thing that people try to address. So maybe something that can be looked at more frequently, obviously high cholesterol and traumatic brain injury. Think there's good understanding about that. But another one that's coming onto the radar that I'll talk more about is air pollution. You know, I don't know how often people are really trying to assess their exposure to air pollution? I think with stuff like the wildfires recently, you know, there's more attention, but there could be, I think, a lot more.

Speaker 3  24:13
So, yeah, as I said, I'm going to focus on, I think what are really emerging areas that we should look at, is risk factors for dementia that are related to mitochondrial function, and this is long COVID, and I would say, also including lots of other viral infections that can get into the brain and have an effect on mitochondrial function. And I think over the course of the next few years, we're going to see a lot more incidents of people who have had long COVID, or, you know, other kinds of viral sort of infections, showing that, you know, increased risk. For instance, there's a study by King's College showing that long COVID subjects had a 28% decrease in memory and attention. So, I mean, I think that's huge, and that doesn't seem to go away very quickly. Another study that's even larger. 112,000 participants were shown to have six less IQ points because of COVID symptoms. So this is, I think, also another indication that, you know, these things are not going away. They're not being resolved that quickly. And you know, the inflammation that's probably also being, you know, sort of not resolved very well, and the brain is going to cause long term damage, and so, you know, obviously it's kind of, then, how do you even know if someone's having maybe a post viral, you know, long term infection? I would say the main way is like these symptoms everyone knows about, like fatigue and, you know, muscle pain and whatnot. But another kind of, I would say, interesting tool that has come out recently is this fatigue and altered cognition scale, which is actually developed especially for long COVID. It was published in the Public Library of Science, and I think it's just a nice way to start looking at fatigue, you know, when someone is a baseline, and also cognition, and then being able to track symptoms over time to see, you know, what kinds of therapies are working, and in terms of what therapies have been tried for. You know, we call post COVID brain fog, magnesium, low carb diet, curcumin and acetyl cysteine, vitamin D, quercetin. I think the ones that have had the best results so far have been N acetyl cysteine, so that seems quite popular to try, at least in terms of the over the counter supplements. Okay, so now I'm going to get into more of the therapeutics we talked about, the risk factors. And now I just want to start to introduce the mitochondria and how you can really start to affect its function and protect its function. And I'll start off by just saying, you know, the mitochondria have incredible nutrient needs, if you think about the fact that makes 95% of the cells energy and needs all these nutrients at absolutely perfect levels to run and bring you all that energy to especially these brain hungry regions like the brain, it makes sense that, you know, all these nutrients have to be perfectly balanced. And I would say, you know, if you look at the rest of the cell, there's just not as much needs as the mitochondria. So here's a kind of lifting of all the different things that the mitochondria really requires and ample levels. And it's also really important to remember that the mitochondria don't always have, you know, very efficient transport systems for some of these things, and these transport systems seem to decrease as you age. You know, not only into the brain, the blood brain barrier, but also into the cells. So, you know, it's good to think about how you might try to boost some of these nutrients as people age, just knowing that kind of fact. And so you know, some of the nutrients I will talk specifically about today will be omega threes, B vitamins, not before glucose, magnesium, various antioxidants, curcumin. And I would say you know more that you know about someone's nutrient status, like the more you can really plan out how to keep those mitochondria functioning perfectly. This slide right here is really just giving you more details on those kinds of nutrients that have roles in those bioenergetics that know the mitochondria is responsible for, especially the TCA cycle. What is interesting about I would say the start is that, you know, the concentrate, concentration gradient of all these nutrients, in terms of the CSF and the serum, clearly shows that the brain is bringing a lot of this stuff in preferentially. But as I said, this goes down as you age. So it's really interesting to see all the studies coming out where, you know, if there is a decrease in something like vitamin C, you know, in terms of the CSF versus the serum, you might look fine in your serum levels of vitamin C, but if it's going down the brain, and that's a real problem, and this is a cause to, you know, try to boost it a little bit more. And then, you know, this part right here, the column on the right, is just giving you a sense of all those transporter systems. And you know, these can be affected by polymorphisms. They can be affected by, you know, even things like infections. So, yeah, just giving you an insight on how delicate this system is. Okay, so I just want to also give a little bit of understanding of how I have come to feel brain mitochondria, or have an overlooked is a causative factor in Alzheimer's. So we all know that the brain is energy hungry. It's using over 20% of the body's glucose, even though it's weight as much less. So the mitochondria are clearly, you know, the most important thing to kind of keep going with all that energy and that glucose use. But they're also responsible for other things like immune function in the brain. So they're really doing cascades of things like cytokine storms. And the immune function can also include activating amyloid and tau. So if you start to have any kind of damage to the mitochondria, this is now going to stimulate tau and amyloid as well, too. And sometimes this is resolved and sometimes this is not. So I can definitely share with you some titles on, you know, these kinds of studies. But what I would say is, you know, a hypothesis that's now been kind of looked at further, especially right now, is the amyloid. Intent might be red herrings. They're a stress response of the brain's immune system, but not the root cause of damage. And then maybe mitochondria should be looked at more as a root cause. This slide is a little bit complicated, but I would like to just try to give you a sense of what's going on here. So when I talk about the mitochondria and immune dysfunction, like, what does that mean? Like, how is that working? The main way that I think this is happening, you know, is shown by this slide, is through the mitochondrial DNA. So we're all familiar that the mitochondria are these organelles that did not start out in, you know, our cells, just, you know, naturally, their bacteria that were captured billions of years ago and are kind of a little bit of a deal with the devil, and the fact that they then gave, you know, multi cellular organisms, the ability to make a ton of energy, but then also a lot of oxidative stress as well, too. The other thing that happened, because, you know, we took in this kind of foreign substance, is that whenever something's released from the mitochondria, it is considered a pathogen by the rest of the cell. And that is especially with mitochondrial DNA. You can imagine it's just kind of treated as basically like a viral infection. So when you have this mitochondrial DNA getting released a lot of the time, you will then have this cytokine sort of stimulation through the NRP three pathway. And this can then lead to a lot of other cytokines being activated within the cell, and then also going on to activate the whole immune system as well, too, through the sting pathway. So this is, I think, what was really an interesting area that I hope we also get more understanding of, especially as we look at inflammation and how it's tied to mitochondrial function in the brain. So, you know, therapeutics will probably go in that direction really quickly. I think now

Speaker 3  32:22
I'm going to throw talking about those therapeutics, and I'm going to start with omega threes, because I really feel like this is underappreciated substance. I mean, I know there's lots of studies on it for cardiovascular disease, and you know, some of this is mixed. Some show that it's great for, you know, various cardiovascular biomarkers, some that you know are not showing That's so great. A little bit the same thing with, I would say, overall brain function. But what I think is clear is that if you look at the overall amount of studies that have been looked at for mega threes in terms of cognitive decline, there are some key attributes that seem to indicate a good outcome like this intervention will likely give you a better sort of, you know, preservation of that cognition. And so the meta analysis that was just recently published this year was really good in exposing the fact that, for instance, executive function really seemed to have, you know, that that overall improvement, if an intervention was at least 12 months, if that intervention was at least 500 milligrams of omega threes, and more interestingly, if it had a preponderance of EPA, so up to 420 milligrams of EPA. So this is really interesting. EPA is definitely kind of under appreciated part of omega three sometimes I think DHA gets a lot of attention. I certainly have given a lot of attention my research, but EPA seems to have a special sort of mitochondrial function in terms of resolving that inflammation. I just talked about DHA, I you know, I want to also give it some understanding too. So on this slide here, you can also see the models of Alzheimer's disease where they looked at how DHA could prevent neuroinflammation, and this seemed to be mediated by the mitochondrial dysfunction that was occurring in this Alzheimer's disease. So I thought that was something that should be at least appreciated and looked at the other thing I think is really interesting about omega threes is how they can relate to blood glucose and also brain glucose uptake. And you know, clearly, if you've got better Omega three status, it seems that there's more and more studies coming out that your brain glucose uptake will be better, so you're kind of preventing that diabetes of the brain syndrome. I'm sure you've heard of that term before, that might be making it so that you know cognition is going down and you're getting more damage as you're not getting enough glucose being used. This slide is actually some research I did about, let's say, Yeah, over 15 years ago. It feels like a long time, but I think this is still not being understood as well as it should. And this is omega three brain bioavailability. I think there's a lot of confusion about, like, the different forms and which ones get in I will say, through the research that I have done, it's really clear that the phospholipid form of DHA or EPA is better at getting into the brain. And you know, this is an example of a study that I did. It's a mouse study. But, you know, it's still because relevant, where, when you use a triglyceride form with DHA, it's fine to get into, you know, young mice. So kind of like I would say, you know, child mice, but once you get 10 week old mice, that's, I think, you know, just a plain old adult. It's not even an age mouse model you're seeing that the triglyceride form is not going into the brain as well, and the phospholipid form is way better. And this is really important, because, you know, everyone's being told to go out and get some omega three supplements, but all those fish oil supplements are basically mostly the triglyceride form, right? So, you know, we all know that fatty fish are very good for the brain, and intake has been correlated to better cognition. But, you know, the phospholipid form that exists in salmon and mackerel actually gets taken out when they're doing that extraction to make fish oil capsules. So you're actually losing the best part of the fish oil or, you know, actually keeping that phospholipid form. You can use krill oil. The krill oil does seem to be, you know, highly abundant in phospholipids, and those stay in those capsules. So I recommend using those. But another trick you might try is the fact that in the same study, we saw that if you take the triglyceride form of DHA. But you also take, at the same time some sort of phospholipid, and it could be any phospholipid, it could be like soil lecithin or anything like that, you will get better uptake. So I think this is really interesting for us to realize, too. So there's lots of kind of tricks in the toolbox to help make sure that that omega threes are getting there. And just to give you a little bit more kind of concreteness about how I view the way that you should look at the Omega three kind of need in your your patients, obviously, there's the Omega three index, so looking at the overall content in the blood. But you know, this doesn't always correlate to brain levels, though, I would say, you know, if you can at least reduce the systemic inflammation that is, you know, usually caused by a deficiency of omega threes, this can help brain functions, too. The other thing I would say about Omega three is that dosing that I talked about earlier. So you know that that meta analysis that up to 500 milligrams was efficacious for cognition. But I would say, you know, even more is better. So up to 1000 milligrams of krill oil, for instance, not phospholipid form, using that EPA, that higher EPA, and then also using vitamin E and vitamin D to help with stability, because you don't want that rancid kind of fish oil that is doing a good to any patient. You can also use Vitamin b2 to help with the DHA absorbance. And then also, you know, I'm sure this group knows that you then have to kind of keep your omega six levels down. And so, you know, using oils that have less Omega six is very important too. So avocado oil, olive oil, those all work. Okay, so now I'm gonna get into B vitamins, and this is also a near and dear subject, because I did a lot of research trying to understand how B vitamin polymorphism can help with cognition or hinder cognition. And so I wrote a review looking at all the different B vitamin polymorphisms and how they can affect, you know, brain aging, how they can affect development and mood disorders. And I can tell you, they're very influential, and they're also quite prevalent in population, you know, more prevalent than I think people realize. So when I see that, you know, sometimes a B vitamin study, you know, tried to look at, you know, a cognition outcome and didn't really show something. I think to myself, well, you guys probably should have looked at the polymorphisms. I think those really make a big difference in how something works. I will say overall, you know, a recent study looked at, you know, combining things like folate, methionine, b6 and B 12 for Alzheimer's and mild cognitive impairment, and did see that it could reduce risk, but clearly genetics are modulating that effect. So you know something to really think about, especially because we know that those B vitamins are so important in the TCA cycle and methylation and all those good things that the mitochondria need to do. So, yeah, just to give you my overall recommendation about the polymorphisms to go for. First, clearly, MTHFR is, you know, quite prevalent in population, so it is good to look at, and it has been shown to have, you know, less 20% or more than 20% less folate availability correlated to depression, cognitive decline, a host of other things. So, you know for sure, test that folate level, but then also maybe look at this polymorphism, and then realize, even if a folate level looks okay, you know, you should be looking also at, you know, giving methyl folate and giving that that kind of active form to help overcome this. Another one is MTR. So I think this is also quite prevalent, and it's correlated to homocysteine. So, you know, seeing that also getting supplemented, if you've got the, you know, the risk polymorphism with things like choline, methyl cobalamin betaine are is good idea, and then also such a thiamine beta synthase is another one that, you know, I saw in my research having a lot of correlation to things like cardiovascular disease and Alzheimer's and no greater levels of homocysteine. So supplement methyl COVID, COVID, and you should be okay. The other thing that I also want to just mention, too, is some of these websites that are great for looking at overall polygenic risk scores. So they take a lot of the workout make it really easy to recommend things for patients. Self decode is great. I've worked with them a lot. I think that they are really spot on on their science. Another good one is moodle.com

Speaker 3  41:22
Okay, so I also, I don't know if this was mentioned all I have also worked at Noom, that weight loss app that I'm sure many people have been familiar with, and I can't tell you how much, when I was working at Noom as as a senior director, that I heard people talking about, you know, having this, this extra weight on them, and having also just trouble concentrating, you know, as and as they tried to, you know, get their work done, but then as the weight came off, they started to feel like, a lot more clear headed, you know, a lot more able to do, you know, the things they need to do. So at noon, we actually decided to do a study of just to see how, you know, even a small amount of weight loss, so just 5% of weight loss, if that could improve cognition. So we actually recently published a study showing just that. And it makes sense that, you know, obesity does correlate with worse cognition. So all that inflammation from, you know, the adipose tissue that is in excess, there's a lot of studies showing that, you know, even people who are normal glycemic in terms of their blood glucose, they have, you know, at least, sort of a heightened A, 1c that you're going to see, probably decreased brain volume and activity and connectivity. Diabetes, again and again and again, has been correlated with dementia. So I think it's just making sense that you tackle obesity and metabolic disease as early as possible to save that cognition. Because we know mitochondria dysfunction is really at the heart of a lot of these kind of obesity related syndromes as well, too. And so you know for sure, probably getting someone on Metformin really early on would help. But then you need to check the B vitamin status too, because it can decrease B 12. I actually really love the idea of using these continuous glucose monitors with people, so they can start to see, you know, where they're kind of having those, those big peaks in their glucose when they're eating particular things. It's different for everyone, and it's a great education. But I think just even educating people and having them know that those extra pounds, even, you know, 5% extra pounds, can be a difference in their cognition, is huge. And we even had things like with scans of EEG, so we showed how brain activity changed, you know, from before and after that weight loss. And people were really excited by that. They found that really motivating thing, seeing their brain activity get better, you know, being able to detect errors better, and cognition tests. It was kind of cool seeing that. Um, so, you know, as I was talking about Metformin, I also realized, you know, there's a whole thing with GLP one agonists right now. So I wanted to include, you know, a little bit about this, because, believe it or not, GLP, one, agonists do have a mitochondrial function to them, um. And though, I think you know, the actual data in terms of what they're doing in the brain is mixed, you know, in terms of whether they're actually making a difference in blood glucose uptake in the brain. For instance, it does seem like more and more data is coming out that they're preventing some cognition decline. So for instance, Landsat published a recent study showing that people with type two diabetes taking GLP one agonists had lower rates of cognitive decline than people on other types of meds. Obviously, they don't really know much about the blood glucose use in these patients. They're gonna start looking at that more. Another poster that was recently at a conference showed that with mild ad patients taking their glutide, there was an improvement executive function, but not improvement in blood glucose uptake or so it's brain glucose uptake. So I think this is an interesting area to kind of, you know, ponder in, you know, with with patients is, how could this can help with their blood glucose control and their brain glucose control. But it's early days, and metformin might be the better way to go. Because, as you know, the problem with GLP one agonists is that if you take them too long and you become malnourished because you're just, you know, not really eating correctly, you can have muscle deterioration. You can have a whole host of other problems that you didn't anticipate with weight loss. So, you know, non drug ways to help that diabetes of the brain syndrome are also, you know, really showing more and more evidence. And I think one of the main ones ketogenic diet, and I myself have actually done research in ketogenic diet, and did see it was, you know, quite impressive in what it could do, and put down a few studies of, you know, different effects that people have seen giving them medium chain triglycerides, which, you know, someone knows, get turned into ketones in the liver. So it's kind of like a cheat way of getting ketones without doing ketogenic diet have been very effective at improving executive function. Um, ketogenic diet itself, you know, can be really challenging to do. So, you know, I think these studies have shown an effect in improving cognition and also quality of life. But I also hear from these researchers that it was really hard to get patients to do this, you know, it's just really challenging, that idea of like, no more suites, when, you know, I think people, especially who are dealing with, you know, cognitive issues like, want those suites. So I'm much more in favor of trying things like medium chain triglycerides because they are quite effective and they're easy to get and easy to take. And I want to also give you a little bit of advice on some of the differences in some of these medium chain triglycerides that I've seen myself in my research. So, you know, obviously the way that keto ketones are working is that they're kind of giving you this alternate fuel that, you know, perhaps you're not getting in your brain because you're not using glucose as well. They're also really good for mitochondrial function as well, too. So ketones, you know, being used neurons and glia have been shown to kind of make mitochondria use energy more efficiently and also decrease inflammation. So, you know, some of the studies that we did in animals actually showed that MCTs themselves could improve like synapses in terms of like synaptic protein expression that actually improve mitochondrial respiration and the cortex. But those differences did start to come out more and more as we looked at different kinds. So for instance, the ones that I think people are most familiar about with medium chain druggist rides is the C 12 version, which is the predominant version in coconut oil. And this actually doesn't make that many ketones. It's not that great at being turned into ketones, and the medium train checklist itself doesn't seem to have any effect on inflammation in the brain. In fact, it seems to be awesome. Much better are these smaller versions of MCPS, like C 10 and c8 and I know that c8 also called caprylic acid, has been popular. It's been used in bulletproof you know, is the kind of like best way to get ketones. But in fact, in a study that we did a few years ago, we saw that C 10 was better at improving cognitive and mood in an age rap model. So I would probably give you a sense of like, if you can find C 10 in higher amounts, which you know, are probably more likely in some of these more kind of purified MCT formulations, I would go for that. This is, I think, where, you know, the other thing to kind of caveat with MCTs is they can have a little bit of an upset stomach sort of issue, because you need to take a pretty good amount. You need to take at least 15 to 20 grams a day. You can put those into different kind of intervals during the day to help that along. But I will say that they're better than those exogenous ketones, which I think like just taste terrible and have a lot of bad effects on your GI system. So yeah, ketone esters or ketone salts can can work a little bit better than that,

Speaker 3  49:27
all right. So now I'm going to diverge a little bit into another emerging risk factor that you know, I know, is getting some attention, but should get more attention, and that is severe menopausal symptoms, because more and more evidence is coming out that these menopausal symptoms are correlated with increased dementia risk, and in particular, I'm talking about hot flashes and night sweats. So these vaso motor symptoms seem to be indicating some sort of you know problem in the brain in terms of, you know, fuel and also metabolism, that then correlate to worsening cognition. And I'll explain a little bit how this might be actually happening. But it's clear as you go through the menopausal transition that a lot of differences are happening in your brain function. So you know, gray matter is changing, white matter is changing. And you know, all this is due to the lack of estrogen. So estrogen, you know, which is a major sort of metabolic factor getting taken away, basically makes your neurons and your glia kind of go from, like, really high kind of ATP production and, you know, sort of optimal function to, you know, kind of relying more on, for instance, beta fatty oxidation, um. And so there is a lot of interest, of course, is whether you can actually put estrogen back into someone after they've gone through menopause. Is that a good idea? So much debate on this. I will say that I found a recent study that I think is quite credible, by Lisa Moscone, and she looked at how you know the actual risk changes if you're giving the estrogen the HRT early on after menopause, so within the first five years versus when you're doing it, maybe you know five years past your actual menopausal transition, and this graph in particular is for estrogen only kind of HRT. So want to make that really clear, but I also just want to say, like, you know, I think this is a pretty pronounced effect, so good for people to realize, you know, how pronounced an effect you can get if you're taking estrogen at the right time. So I know a lot of people aren't really all with interest in estrogen. So obviously, there's a lot of other kind of alternatives that I think are interesting. I do want to explain a little bit how estrogen are important for the mitochondria. I think everyone knows that estrogen is actually made in the mitochondria. And what I would say is really fascinating is the origin of why these night sweats might be so indicative of poor kind of, you know, cognition later on in life. And this is because these night sweats are also correlated to poor glucose metabolism. So as you get less glucose metabolism in the brain, and that fatty acid oxidation increases, basically the brain is kind of looking for any kind of fuel source it can get. And if it's not getting a lot of fuel sources, it will actually start to use the white matter of the brain. And if you could imagine, you know, once you start to lose the white matter of your brain, you're going to have a lot more problems with cognition. So this is one of these kind of hypotheses that have been shown, you know, in a few animal models. So I think it's probably going to get a lot more sort of understood in humans pretty soon. Um, but just in terms of some kinds of things you can do that are not estrogen related. I'm very fascinated by phytoserm. It's a formulation invented by Roberta Brinton, who has shown that this particular formulation can decrease those hot flashes and also preserve cognition, and that was in a phase one study versus a phase two study. So now she's doing a much bigger study, so can't wait for those results to come back, see what they look like. But in terms of my overall recommendations, I would say, if you're not looking for HRT, kind of you know alleviation of those symptoms, there's black cohosh, there's Chase tree, there's equal they also have efficacy shown in clinical studies. But I would say the best one that I've seen is equal. So I feel like the data is really robust for those severe vasomotor symptoms. And I like the fact that equal has very high potency for the estrogen beta receptor, which is the one that's most found in the brain, and equal has pretty good brain viability too. So that's another thing in its favor. So I would recommend people trying equal 10 milligrams is all you need, at least for eight weeks in women with those severe vasomotor symptoms.

Speaker 3  53:57
And then you know, as I kind of alluded to earlier in my presentation, another emerging risk factor air pollution. Like, what can you do about that? Because it's clear, you know, the data is coming out that this is a big factor. And you know, demo neurology recently published a paper showing that people living in areas with high pm 2.5 concentrations have more amyloid and their PET scans, and when you look at autopsy brains, it's clear that people who have been exposed to pollution in terms of their residences have more of those um plaques. And there's a lot of animal models now showing that you know, any kind of air pollution seems to be causing mitochondrial dysfunction, which then seems to be causing brain dysfunction. And so I was looking for a study that really kind of showed something that actually worked for, you know, alleviating that mitochondrial dysfunction due to poor air quality. And one study that was interesting was one by Salvi, where they looked at cognition anxiety and mice that were exposed to to car pollution, so diesel exhaust, which is actually quite similar to, you know, the particulates that you see in wildfires, for instance. And they saw that, you know, long inflammation and lung function went down, but also brain function went down, you know, for memory. And then this seemed to be due to the oxidative stress that was caused by their pollution, which then led to mitochondrial dysfunction. But when mitoquin was used in the drinking water, it seemed to reverse that kind of mitochondrial dysfunction and also help with the behavioral deficit, so that the memory was improved. There are a few other types of ingredients that seem to be useful for this kind of air pollution, cognition, like resveratrol, for instance. So I think this will be another sort of emerging area to look at, especially in people who are exposed to those wildfires and they make no way of getting around it or avoiding them. Lastly, I just want to end my talk by talking about, you know, the fact that we can talk about, you know, green is all we want, or nutrients or compounds, but in the end, it's multi modal, right? So I'm really impressed by the finger study that, you know, showed for the very first time that you could modify, you know, 40% of your dementia risk through a healthy Nordic diet and exercise and community support. And now there's a lot more studies going on. So I invite everyone to just go look at these protocols. And, you know, see how much you can get people to take up these kinds of protocols. Because what the fact is, is, you know, most of these diets that are being used are really great for mitochondria. They're rich in fiber and polyphenols and B vitamins and omega threes and all the things I talked about today, and they're low in those saturated fats that could actually be very detrimental to, for instance, the mitochondrial membranes. I didn't even get into all the mitochondrial membrane stuff about, you know, palmitic acid and all the rest. But for another day, um. And you know, if you have to get people to be more excited by exercise, one of the things I always tell people is that, you know, if you do more exercise, you could actually increase the amount of mitochondria in your muscles, then you can go faster, and, you know, have better overall brain function and longevity. You know, so many more benefits than just, you know, the exercise itself. So sometimes it's motivating, and I think I'm done. So I love references, so you can peruse those. If you have any questions, I'm happy to answer some questions.

Bill Clearfield  57:25
Okay, well, thank you so much. We'll take a couple of questions from the chat. First, Dr Hopper says he's surprised l lysine isn't included in the viral supplement list.

Speaker 3  57:39
Oh, you know, it probably should be. I mean, I think I tried to look at the ones that seem to be having most data. So if lysine is one of those ones that had, like, you know, more than one study and a good outcome, then I will definitely start to mention

Bill Clearfield  57:55
that more often, okay, could exposure to certain radio frequencies be good or bad for mitochondria, usually it's bad, right?

Speaker 3  58:03
Yeah, it's definitely bad. Um, it's so interesting. Like, there are a lot of things coming out. For instance, you know that not just radio frequencies, but the any kind of radiation is bad for mitochondria, in terms of, you know, space flight. So, for instance, we've been a pro like, so Mito Q MIT has been used for mitigating space flight brain fog, and, you know, mitochondrial dysfunction that is related to, you know, the radiation you get from space. I would imagine that this is also something you could probably see working for various things, like radio frequencies as well that have been shown to disrupt brain function. Yeah, I think that's you really have to look at which ones, because there's just a lot of different types that you have to sort of, you know, take on through themselves in terms of how bad they can be.

Bill Clearfield  58:59
Okay. Do you agree that organic acid tests can be used for B vitamin absorption testing, looking for markers like, I'm not sure what this word is, form formino glute, glutamic acid, Fi glue for folate metabolism. Is Is that valid?

Speaker 3  59:20
Yeah, yeah. I think those are valid. You know, for sure, organic acids are great to look at, you know, for things like, you know, understanding B vitamins, um, it's just, you know, once again, sometimes when people say, oh, you know, let's look at organic acids and try to make assumptions about mitochondrial function, I think that's a little bit harder to do sometimes. I think it can be done, but I think you have to just be really careful, because there's a lot of other things that can affect organic acids, as we know,

Bill Clearfield  59:50
okay, which OTC? CGM, I guess need a glucose monitor. Do you like best?

Speaker 3  1:00:02
You know, I have to say we've been using some kind of more non commercial CGM right now. So for instance, the Samsung is coming out with a watch that is going to actually measure your glucose. And so we're able to test out those and use those. So I thought those were amazing, because, you know, they're so much more easy to use than some of the other CGMS. So I would think actually that Samsung watch is probably almost ready to be, yeah, rolled out commercially. And I would encourage people to go and look at that, because I found that pretty accurate, and I also found it amazing to have people feel like they really have control over their blood glucose. Mm, hmm.

Speaker 2  1:00:48
The common one we use here is FreeStyle Libre. That's, that's something that I just have prescribed to patient support,

Speaker 3  1:00:58
yeah. I mean, I think that's, that's the standard, you're right. And it's just funny, because I also realized sometimes, when we tried to use CGMS for for noon studies, people had a lot of trouble, you know, getting used to them. I would say, so. So I'm kind of excited to, you know, have this idea of, like, wearables that you can use instead.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:21
Okay, okay. Can he flower oil? Not a Can we take a he or a he flower oil, not a fish oil? Not my question. Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:01:33
I don't know if that would have omega threes in it, though. I, as far as I know, you know the there's no plant source of, like the long chain Omega threes, like DHA and EPA, which are, you know, pretty superior to the shorter, you know, Allah form. So, yeah, I would, I would be a little bit hesitant about that. I mean, obviously algal DHA is fine, but I don't know if any flower that can really have.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:01
What about, what about this fatty 15, which is supposed to be the, the first, the first, the Omega three. New Omega three discovered in 90 years. Any, any opinion on that?

Speaker 3  1:02:15
I mean, I have been a little underwhelmed by the data. I didn't really feel like I've seen a lot of clinical studies on it, you know, I know there's been associations of, you know, C 15, and, you know, overall better health, and like, you know, older people, and you know, bunch of cell studies. They advertise a lot, and I don't know what kind of data they have. That really is impressive. They did recently come out with a study where they looked at liver biomarkers, you know, Alt and AST in actually, what I guess is like healthy individuals and kind of showed a little bit of a change if, if you actually show a good increase of C 15 in your blood. Um, so you know that that's something, I guess, but it's, it's sort of not as big a deal, I think is it's been made out to be so far. So I'm kind of waiting for more data to feel really, really impressed. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:03:11
when you were talking about vasomotor symptoms, have you ever used testosterone for vasomotor symptoms?

Speaker 3  1:03:21
I don't know if I would really recommend that as the first thing that you would do. So, I mean, I would probably really stick with, yeah, seeing if HRT works. I mean, when I think of testosterone, I think, you know, probably it's better at kind of other parts of blood, menopausal, kind of symptom range, you know, like, obviously, like, bums, intercourse and things like that, or arousal. So, yeah, I don't think I've seen any studies, for instance, that make me think testosterone is a really great solution.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:55
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:03:59
I could probably send you some, but that's another story.

Speaker 3  1:04:01
Yeah, yeah. Always welcome to see more studies.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:04
Um, what about? What about in say, say, someone who you don't want to use estrogens on for whatever reason?

Speaker 3  1:04:14
Yes, that's why I'm kind of keen on some of these ISO flavor bones, you know. So for instance, that phytoserum combination, I think seems like very effective so far in what they've shown. So that's genestein. It's date scene. It's equal. So you can go out and you can get those kinds of supplements pretty easily, and kind of, you know, try them out. And I think it's very individual, though. So, you know, equal is interesting, because it seems to work better when you have, for instance, like some equal kind of natural production, or microbiome, for instance. So I'm really in favor of those. I would say for a lot of menopausal symptoms, it's, it's not so much about replacing estrogen, though. It's also just kind of, you know, addressing other things that are going on. So if you're, like, having poor mood or, you know, fatigue, it's like, address those according to those symptoms. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:05:10
switch a little bit different topic, and that you were talking about probiotics. We've, we've had Ross Pelton on, and he's a big proponent of postbiotics,

Speaker 3  1:05:22
yeah, yeah. I actually think the data is pretty good for postbiotics, and it makes sense, because, you know, the fact is, it's a lot of the time when people take probiotics, a lot of that's not lasting much in your gut. No, it's there for very brief amount of time, like living, and then, you know, it's dead, and then maybe it's doing a lot of mediation of, you know, anti inflammatory kinds of effects, that sort of thing. So I've seen a range of studies now with postbiotics, for instance, that have good effects on mood, for instance. So I am definitely in favor of some of them. Now,

Bill Clearfield  1:06:03
okay, and what is your opinion of Aricept? I'm just asking a question when

Speaker 3  1:06:11
you don't have any when you don't have anything else. I mean, you know what, what else can you do? So there is that. But, yeah, as I said, I think there's so much you can do. Like is my last slide showed, you know, everything should be multi modal, so sure, you know, give Aricept if you feel like it's, you know, maybe helping. But then do everything else too, because that is only a symptomatic effect is noted

Bill Clearfield  1:06:35
in the vatic osteopathic medical association to speak, and they'll tell you, that's the only thing there is. And, you know, nothing else works. So that's the other side of the coin.

Speaker 3  1:06:46
Yeah, yeah. And I think that's the problem. So then you have to look elsewhere, and you have to kind of figure out, you know, what else is out there, because, you know, that's the only kind of official thing.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:55
Yeah, you're kind of preaching to the choir with, with, or I'm just asking the question. Somebody asked the question, yeah, have you studied the impact of dysbiosis or mitochondrial function with respect to brain function?

Speaker 3  1:07:10
I have not personally done that. I have looked at, you know, probiotics, for instance, and how they can affect brain function. And, you know, there's a lot of things they can do. It's like, amazing how much they can affect, you know, serotonin signaling and things like that. Um, in terms of just looking at the overall changes in microbiome, um, what I found more interesting is is, you know, the changes you saw microbiome when you gave ketogenic diet, for instance. I mean, that is a really drastic, really fascinating change that, you know, other studies have shown then, then can affect mitochondrial function in the brain. You know, obviously there's some direct effects, but then there's also some microbiome immediate effects. So I think this is, this is an area that really also needs to grow a lot more is understanding how that might but all those microbiome kind of intermediates are affecting the brain and especially the mitochondria. There's so much to learn, and it's it's just parsing it all out. Because I don't think we even know what a healthy microbiome looks like right now. Or we know a little bit, but not as much as we should. We know akermansia is good and, you know, we know a few things, but it's, it's still a lot to know. Have a quick question

Benoit Tano  1:08:27
in terms of the EPA DHA does boraj oil do anything at all? Does

Speaker 3  1:08:36
what oil? I mean, not so much as a provider of omega threes that I think are really the effect of brain ones. I think boredom is great, anti inflammatory. So, like, there is that. And I would say, yeah, once again, it can be individual. So if it seems like it's working for someone, like, maybe that's just what their individual brain needs to have the right kind of information alleviated. So yeah, I have to say, I don't think I'm familiar with forage oils, some of the other oils that I've been looking at, those specialty oils, like the C 15,

Benoit Tano  1:09:16
because one of the good professional supplement company. They actually have one omega three fish or that contains burger. So I was wondering if that was adding anything at all.

Speaker 3  1:09:34
Ah, all right, yes, maybe have, like, some sort of, like modified version or something, or like, you know, it's, it's really interesting the world of fatty acids right now. Like, there is, like, this whole kind of new understanding of, you know, these, these fatty acids that are found in, like, particular fish that might be really effective, you know, see, buckthorn, and they're sort of, you know, Omega sevens. Like, maybe those are really interesting for the brain. So I, I just don't know if I have been aware of like a specialized forage oil like that, but I would love to know. So if you can send any details on that, that'd be great.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:12
Okay, Dr, Ro, you have any email questions for us?

Speaker 2  1:10:16
Yes, so Well, let's segue into that. Since you mentioned about oils, I think you did mention about EPA dosing, somebody's asking, What about DHA dosing?

Speaker 3  1:10:31
Oh, like, how much EPA you should you should give someone,

Speaker 2  1:10:35
I think one of your slides EPA, but DHA, it was not there.

Speaker 3  1:10:40
Yeah, so, I mean, I think that it's really clear that the main thing is to get, like, enough of those omega threes, just in general. So, you know, getting up to that 1000 milligrams, you know, that one gram dose, and, you know, having a little bit, maybe more EPA. But then I think it's really hard to find, like, a very pure EPA only sort of product. I mean, I know there's like a pharmaceutical brand, you know, which is hard to get and expensive. So I think anything that has, you know, least maybe like 40% DHA, makes a lot of sense. So then, you know, therefore maybe, like something that has like 600 milligrams of EPA and 400 milligrams of DHA would make sense? I think that would be pretty effective

Unknown Speaker  1:11:24
with a strategy. Yeah,

Benoit Tano  1:11:28
many people think that EPA helps in depression anxiety, whereas the DHA is good for cholesterol and stuff. So what is the mechanism through which the EPA helps with the anxiety and depression.

Speaker 3  1:11:45
Yeah. So it seems to be a highly specialized anti inflammation kind of effect. So I would say, when they look at, you know, what's going on, where, like, those omega threes are going in the cell and the mitochondria, DHA is having kind of more of a, you know, insertion into the membrane, and, you know, perhaps mediating, you know, some antioxidant effects and helping with fluidity and that kind of thing. But EPA seems to be, I think, more specialized in terms of actually, kind of acting like an active, you know, and then, you know, generating all these, like, pro resolvents and things like that that can have, like, their own effects. So I think that's, that's where it's having its, its main depressive effect. And I always kind of tell people, like, when they when I describe that, like, you don't think of depression as inflammation. But, you know, if you think about what happens in depression, you know, it's a sickness behavior, right? You're inflamed, you feel fatigued, you know, you like poor sort of, you know, mood and things like that. That is literally, you know, an immune response, kind of inflammation. And so I think, you know, understanding that, that a lot of depression might be mediated by inflammation is, you know, not as well known as it should be, and should be a lot more, kind of in the public eye. I'm sure there's a lot of proponents here, right? Yes.

Speaker 2  1:13:09
Well, one of the things here, I think you kind of gave a hint on how to make omegas more effective by I guess choosing a phospholipid, right base for that is it also effective when you take omegas along with like Phosphatidylserine, or the there are products out there that are phospholipids, when you combine together, is that what you're pertaining to? I think that's what that is,

Speaker 3  1:13:33
I'm recommending. So that's, that's what we've seen, at least in these, these animal models, that that can actually make a difference. So you know, if you don't have access to that phospholipid, form of DHA, EPA, then, you know, taking any kind of, like phospholipid, like the Phosphatidylserine, yeah, that can actually work pretty well.

Speaker 2  1:13:52
Is there a specific dose for that, or did you just take it with,

Speaker 3  1:13:57
I would say, like a one to one ratio. Because really, that's, that's kind of what you're expecting to have happen is that, you know, as these, these omega threes, enter your system, this is when they, you know, in the liver and places like that, they basically have, you know, this E certification. That means that, you know, they're now getting attached to this phospholipid, and then they can go on and get inserted into the brain more easily, because that's, that's, of course, the real difference is that phospholipid form can get into all those membranes of, you know, the blood brain barrier that are

Speaker 2  1:14:28
one thing that kind of got my attention about your presentation, are actually the blood testing. I mean this for me, I this is the first time I found out about it, the aps that you mentioned, and I researched more about more about it. And it's still in our country. It's still for research, so I don't think it's, I don't know, in New Zealand, but, and, but the other one is precipitate. Is that correct? It is, this is actually being covered by some insurances now, and it is being done by quest here in the States. And it's actually around, I don't know if this is out of pocket, 200 to $300 so that's I thought you just kind of lick your finger and put it up in the air just to guess how many amyloid plaques somebody has. But now, as you brought this to our attention that that was really interesting for me, and also the and you mentioned about hearing being Now a very important risk factor. That's why I have a lot of patients who are veterans or even elderly who just throws away their I guess, hearing aids saying it doesn't work. I don't want to use this. It's so uncomfortable. Now, if you're saying that, it's probably a big risk factor for these people, not hearing much, and it makes sense even visual impairment, as you mentioned, if you don't have glasses or you don't have the right reading glasses, there's no, no more brain stimulation for your hearing and your vision. So that's why there's a lot of education that needs to be done here, especially for those stubborn patients that who doesn't want their where they're expensive, expensive hearing aids out there. So just, just kind of reminded me about that situation,

Speaker 3  1:16:05
yeah, and I always actually tell people, like, you should get your hearing tested, you know, much earlier than you think you'd have to worry about it, because they're always surprised. You know, you're 40 years old. You think you're great, and then you get your hearing test, and you find out that it's actually, like, hugely decreased, you know, compared to what it should be. And we know that all these devices, you know, the headphones we're wearing, they're turned up too loud. There's a whole epidemic of people who probably are gonna have really poor hearing at a much earlier age, and we need to capture them right away, because there are things you can do early on, once again. You know, all the things I talked about works for that, right, right?

Speaker 2  1:16:43
And I think this is more of a comment that they're saying Metformin is a double edged short sword from from what you presented, that it does help the mitochondria, but at the same time it depletes your your B 12, as you mentioned. And there's probably more deficiencies that was not mentioned. But just to kind of update everybody, the company, true diagnostic, made a study and found about, I mean, the research was all with Yale University, and actually found, I think, 50 agents, I don't know if I'm underestimating that that has noted to reverse the anti aging clocks. And part of as part of their study, they found that Metformin actually has been one of those pharmaceutical agents that actually helps with these anti aging effects of the aging clocks of the system. And they the study was actually related to more of, I think, HIV patients. But as you as the double edged sword with metformin comes into play, you would see now this is actually backed up by a medical clinical study done. This is pretty new study as well, and I don't know if you heard of another question is GLP one micro dosing? So you did have a, I guess, a slide about the GLP ones, but the micro dosing actually has been, has been promoted by other practitioners here in the US, and it's like their daily but definitely not following the regular scaling of GLP ones. Have you heard of this?

Speaker 3  1:18:10
I have heard of this. And it's funny because, you know, even the fact that this stuff is so expensive, you know, people are just like, I'm going to microdose it. So they're just literally, you know, kind of doing their own kind of dosing regime and and kind of working on just, you know, kind of just twinge my appetite a little bit. I have heard mixed results. I don't know if you felt like people are really finding success with micro dosing.

Speaker 2  1:18:37
Again, with, for my end, I haven't done it with patients, it's really more of right now, the literature is pouring in for the pros, for GLP one, rather than the cons, because initially, of course, there's a big scare about using GLP one, the thyroid, losing muscle. But right now, there's just so much. I mean, this is Jama we're talking about. These are, like even Medscape articles that are showing that GLP ones really are bringing the money on your table right there. It's just that, yes, GLP one micro dosing does make sense, in a way. It's just that there's not much studies to back it up. That's why there

Speaker 3  1:19:13
really isn't, and that's something that I think really needs to be debated. I mean, they're showing that GLP ones do everything, you know, like, like, helps with arthritis and whatnot. But, you know, then, of course, is it really just because people are losing weight, or is there something like more direct going on? And I tried to do a lot of research on understanding, you know, it's GLP, one kind of direct, you know, activation of those receptors. Is that really doing something that seems like a lot more special on its own. And it's, it's not entirely clear. And I will say also that with GLP ones, yeah, like, you know, in terms of how you're going to get that appetite control, it definitely seems to be like a certain threat rule to get that appetite control. And then below that, people are just, you know, it feels the same. The other thing I looked at GLP ones is to see if there's any kind of longevity evidence for it, you know, is it improving lifespan in any model organism? There's nothing on that at all yet. So I thought that was very indicative. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:20:13
I think that's that's good to use yet, because I'm sure it's in the pipelines. Yes, for sure. And I think one more here. Where do you get the sources for C 10?

Speaker 3  1:20:26
Oh, yeah, so I will say now that we're now done with that sort of CME Park, Oh, okay. Is that your product with Nestle? You can get with Nestle,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:36
Nestle. Hold on. Okay. Thank you so much. And okay, now you're good. Now go.

Speaker 3  1:20:46
Yeah, so, so Vita flow. I don't know if you've heard of Vita flow. It's a part of Nestle. They have like a C 10 heavy kind of drink that you can get. And then, you know, obviously there's Nestle health sciences as well too. That's their medical nutrition arm, they have all sorts of stuff like that.

Speaker 2  1:21:03
Oh, Nestle actually does good things. So Vita flow is sometimes,

Speaker 3  1:21:09
I mean, they do, they do have access to a very big supply of MCPS, so they can

Speaker 2  1:21:16
just crunch chocolate and all those sweet stuff we see in the market?

Speaker 3  1:21:22
Well, I mean, it is funny, they're very interested in mitochondria. I spent five years there working in mitochondria. I worked in like eurolea, which I don't know if you've been hearing much about that lately.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:32
There's a timeline here,

Speaker 3  1:21:35
yeah, so that that is something I worked on as well, too. You know, all that ketone stuff was at Nestle, and, you know, they're just really gung ho about showing that ketones could affect mitochondrial function and have, like, a host of benefits for every kind of disease you can think of being mood, which I think was interesting, because now, you know, five years after I did all that research, you get like, Chris Palmer saying, hey, guess what? You know, ketogenic diet can help with mood. It's like, yeah, yeah, we knew that. You know that's through the mitochondria.

Benoit Tano  1:22:08
Are there any better forms of acido health, carnitine that can shadow better across the aging mitochondria membrane?

Speaker 3  1:22:22
Yeah. I mean, carnitine is, is great for helping that, that fatty oxidation. Um, I always feel like carnitine is one of those mixed bags, though, in terms of the fact that it can contribute to TMAO, right? So, you know that's, that's not great for heart health. Um, so I never am quite certain if that's something that people should really take. I mean, sometimes I think it's very effective, but yeah, it just has to be sort of tried out, and you have to just really watch things like the TMAO, yeah, like the inflammation that could occur. Was that your question? I want to make sure I answered

Benoit Tano  1:22:59
your Yeah. The question was, yeah, do they have any better forms that can shadow across lipids, across the aging mitochondrial membrane? Yeah. I mean,

Speaker 3  1:23:14
definitely, that's that's exactly what it's supposed to be doing so it can get to the mitochondrial membrane. That's what it's supposed to be. Um, I will say, you know, as I probably talked about earlier, that a lot of things stop going through the mitochondrial membrane as well, um, as you age. So that that's also something to really be be wary of, is that it gets harder and harder to get some things through. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:43
okay. Dr Nario, got any more questions? Are you done?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:46
Oh, we're good. I think she got it off. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:48
a couple more. Somebody queried grok, whatever that is. That's some sort of AI, something or other, heat flower and omega three fatty acids. So omega three to six ratio is four to one, Omega three to omega six for an achi flower. Okay, wow. All right,

Speaker 3  1:24:07
yeah. I mean, you know, if it's got a good ratio with the Omega threes and sixes, then yeah. And

Bill Clearfield  1:24:12
then there's another question about information on omega threes interacting with the endocannabinoid system.

Speaker 3  1:24:22
If I know a ton about that. I mean, I think it would make sense that they would work well together. I can't think of any particular studies that I have seen where, you know, they're looking at things like, you know, CBD, or, you know, other things, and omega threes. I'm sure they're out there. But in terms of, like, the anti inflammatory mechanism, it would make sense that they would be working on the same

Bill Clearfield  1:24:44
pathway. Yeah. Dr Arnott found something somewhere omega three fatty acids, particularly EPA and DHA, are incorporated into phospholipids serve as precursors for the biosynthesis of endocannabinoids such as AEA awesome

Speaker 3  1:25:00
endogenous endocannabinoids. Okay, got it, yeah? All right, I realize you're that's, that was part of the question, okay, yeah, yeah. All right, that makes sense. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:09
I know you've been speaking a while. Do you have a few more minutes? I have just a couple of sort of lifestyle questions. Could you give us a little insight into, you know, how you came about your patents, or, you know, ended up working for Pepsi, of all of all people,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:27
yeah. I mean, I grew this from, you

Bill Clearfield  1:25:30
know, your talk here to you that you work for Pepsi. Of all people,

Speaker 3  1:25:34
yeah. And it doesn't seem like a healthy company, right? So that came about because Indra Nooyi, she had been a CEO there for a number of years. Wanted to turn PepsiCo into a healthy food company. So she's like, I want to hire, like the best experts and like, you know, brain and like, you know, metabolism and cardiovascular disease and and get them to turn all our foods into, like, healthy, functional foods. So I was hired to do that. So we spent a lot of time looking at, like, all sorts of polyphenols and probiotics and fibers, you know, for brain function. And then, you know, when it came really clear that these would never be as cheap as, like, typical snack food, typical, you know, energy drinks and sodas and stuff like that. It was really hard to get, you know, this sort of green light, to go forward with this. And then Indra Nooyi got kicked out of PepsiCo. And then I I left, because I was like, well done with it. But they did try to be innovative for a while. Give they that they tried.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:36
What about Nestle? Lisa, could you make some

Speaker 3  1:26:40
Nestle was amazing. So they started this institute, and they basically promised it a billion dollars over the course of 10 years to go for, like, big blue sky projects. And so that's when I got hired there. And so, for instance, they were going to understand disease trajectories by doing a lot of omics, like metabolomics and proteomics, genomics, microbiome and kind of, you know, do this whole data crunching and then say, All right, you know, we figured out exactly each individual's disease trajectory and what they can do to optimize it, you know, through like, you know, making a difference in nutrition and exercise and things, That was the idea. They did not really have much luck putting that into practice. You know, it was just really, like, unwieldy, trying to do all that data crunching and getting consistent results. And then, you know, of course, all this kind of very individualized work was, you know, very costly, like, Who's going to pay for this? But I will say that Nestle is very, very interesting mitochondria. So if you look at Nestle and how they're researching, you know, new nutrients like you'll see that a lot of them are affecting mitochondria. So they are doing a lot of nicotine ribicide research. I think you probably know they actually now kind of own chromodex. They've basically funded chromedex for years. And they also have, you know, a ton of different ketogenic projects, ketogenic, sort of, you know, drinks and whatnot. And they also, of course, own timeline and mural with an A and even new ones they're coming out with, like, things like trigone, and they're showing that, you know, N, acetyl cysteine, for instance, has, you know, obviously great effects on mitochondria. But, you know, kind of really interesting brain benefits, like, for instance, increased motivation, which I think, you know, everyone's needing right now is, like, you know, he's struggling with burnout, like, what? What is good for that? And actually, endoscopy might be something really good for that, based on some Nestle research. So, you know, they're, they're really interested, I have to say,

Bill Clearfield  1:28:42
Okay, can you give us a little summary of your, your, your approach to mitochondrial dysfunction, you know, to kind of sum up what, what you

Speaker 3  1:28:51
so I, I have, um, you know, due to, like, this, exposure to this, this University Washington group, um, I have seen all The mitochondrial stuff come and go. You know, when resveratrol was popular then, like, the rise of rapamycin and all the rest. And what I think people don't always realize about mitochondria is it's not so much about like, having, you know, as much energy as possible. It's actually making, like, mitochondria as efficient as possible, like, so you don't want them actually making a lot of ATP. And, you know, obviously things like obesity, you know, like too much nutrients in the system make mitochondria go, you know, haywire and, and so, you know, things like calorie restriction, which we know are, like the key way to, like, have longevity kind of effect, they're basically making mitochondria is super, super efficient. So they're not making that much oxidative stress. They're not making, you know, extra proteins or extra anything, and that's what you need to do. So I'm very much into, you know, I hate to say it, like intermittent fasting sometimes, and, you know, ketones and all the things that make mitochondria efficient, I am very enthusiastic about, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:29:59
and just quickly your top supplements to, I know it's not Aricept so

Speaker 3  1:30:07
well, I mean, I am now going to plug the company that I'm working

Bill Clearfield  1:30:11
for. We're good. We're off. So, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:30:14
no quinoa, I think is actually pretty great, because it does good into the brain very well, like way better than CO Q 10, and it gets into the mitochondria very well. So, you know, I think it's been really unique. And I I can tell you about 25 different clinical studies where it's been shown to have all sorts of cardiovascular benefits and energy benefits, you know, in terms of exercise performance, and then also, you know, things for liver and kidney, you know, it's, it's, I think, a really kind of amazing supplement that I wish people knew more about. It's definitely helped me in terms of my energy levels. And so that's one also very key on fish oil, you can probably tell, and I do take a high EPA fish oil, and I take it with phospholipids, because I can always get that krill oil that I know also think is pretty good. And then my last favorite one is actually n acetyl cysteine, because I do think it's under appreciated. Now it can have a lot of great effects for mitochondria. And, yeah, we need more studies on I think it's always looked for pretty severe diseases that, I wish we had more diseases or less disease kind of studies. There's a really cool N, acetyl cysteine plus glycine study where they looked at older people, and they looked at a whole bunch of mitochondrial markers and blood biomarkers, and then they showed that, you know, after taking acetylcysteine glycine, that they now looked like those plaid markers were in younger people. So they had a kind of younger people control group, and they saw Shaw that saw that that was now having similar profiles. I thought that was very convincing.

Benoit Tano  1:31:53
At the bottom.

Speaker 2  1:31:56
I don't know why you need to show that, like the drugs that destroys mitochondria. Did you still have that? Oh, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:32:03
yeah, I know. I love that. That's

Speaker 2  1:32:05
probably a good promotion for your product. So you have that logo at the bottom.

Speaker 3  1:32:10
Yeah, I know that's the last bit. I'm like, oh, you know, I'm not going to show that because it has a logo. But, yeah, there's a lot of things that people are not aware of that affect mitochondria. I mean, I think people know all about statins and things like that, but just, you know all the rest of them, like it's not as well known.

Benoit Tano  1:32:27
Why would you take n acetylcysteine versus glutathione?

Speaker 3  1:32:34
Because it's more bioavailable. So glutathione, glutathione is not going to really get to all the places it needs to be. So if you say, take an acetyl cysteine, which is kind of like a precursor form, then you can get it into the mitochondria.

Benoit Tano  1:32:49
So what if it does not convert? It

Speaker 3  1:32:53
usually converts, I think this is, you know, where there's been a lot of data showing that you give a n acetyl cysteine, you know, and especially glycine too. And then you do see higher amounts of glutathione in, you know, cells and various tissues. So yeah, I mean, I do realize there's liposomal glutathione now, and I think that can be pretty good. So yeah, that is also something take instead.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:20
Okay, this list looks like just about in any pharmaceutical product is mitochondrial dysfunction.

Speaker 3  1:33:28
I know mitochondria are very delicate things, right? So there's a lot of stuff that can go wrong with them. And I just think, you know, this is where there's not as much understanding about like, how do you kind of give them the best chance to sort of preserve themselves and have like, you know, the turnover that they need, you know, the metaphor G and things like that. So, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:48
where can we find Mito Q?

Speaker 3  1:33:51
You can find it Amazon. You can find it mighty q.com, you can actually go to vitamin shop. And again, there is a practitioner version that you can get at either full script or clinic boost. And this is like a only for practitioners, you know, 20 milligram kind of clinical efficacious dose. So yeah, those are all the places that I would go to get it.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:15
Okay, Siobhan, I

Speaker 2  1:34:16
think this is a good time to answer this that I think, as mentioned to you, Dr Mark Houston promotes a lot of Mito Q for his cardiovascular protocols, and I know the answer, but maybe this is part of the question. A while ago I didn't want to ask it, because it's asking about Mito Q itself. Why do you need to take CO Q 10 still, even though you're taking Mito Q,

Speaker 3  1:34:42
yeah, yeah. It's, it's an interesting one, because, you know, clearly, when we talk about Mito Q, we always say, like, this is the one that gets into the mitochondria. And we have a lot of data showing that Mito Q gets into the mitochondria at very high amounts. You know, while co Q 10 barely gets in at all, you know, maybe like, 10% of it, but there's all the rest of the cell and, like, the rest of the tissue. So like, yeah, Mito quinol, I think, is great to kind of preserve function and get rid of the oxidative stress in the mitochondria. But, you know, co Q 10 can get everywhere else in the cell, because that's not really where Mito Q is going, as much, you know. So co Q 10 has got rolls and lysosomes, and, you know, all sorts of other areas where I think it's doing a lot of good and having a lot of antioxidant effects. So I think they really are a great partner, actually, in terms of, you know, how they can synergize that oxidative stress kind of control.

Speaker 2  1:35:35
Yeah, for, I think one of the reasons, because I don't think you explained that to the audience, yet that mitoch has different organ sets, meaning it's the brain for heart, the one that he promotes actually was cardio, the cardio Mito Q That's why he was saying that it focuses more on the cardiac mitochondria, leaving nothing else, for example, for the muscles, for the brain. That's why he's saying, make sure that when you do your model Q and cardio, you also take your external co Q 10 as well, meaning the other types of CO Q 10. So that's definitely just splitting your your resources, right?

Speaker 3  1:36:16
It is, it is, I think, like, really clear that it's first going to those areas like the heart and the brain and, you know, the liver, but eventually it does get kind of absorbed into the muscle, and, you know, accumulates in the muscle. It just

Bill Clearfield  1:36:35
takes a little longer, okay, can men use the phytoserm?

Speaker 3  1:36:41
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like, thorium flavors have been shown to be amazing for for men as well, too. And, you know, for various kind of, like, cardiovascular biomarkers, like cholesterol. And what I think is really interesting is when you look at the ITP program, where they look at, you know, longevity, kind of compounds you know, what can extend lifespan? The very best ones have been ones that target estrogen beta receptors, and the most benefit is seen in the male mice. That you know, when you give male mice estrogen beta agonists, they live quite a bit longer. And it's been shown again and again again, through, like, multiple different kinds of estrogens. And that's the same thing that I supply ones are doing as well, too. They're targeting that, that estrogen beta receptor. So, yeah, they're very beneficial, I think, for everyone. And the other thing that I also want to tell people all the time is, when you take them, they're kind of worried, like, oh, you know, is this like, a feminizing estrogen No, it's not because, you know, the beta is not that feminizing when it's not in, you know, anywhere like, you know, kind of like the sex, sort of, you know, organs. It's really just in places like the brain and like the heart.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:57
Could you expound just a little bit on the effect of your Mito Q on mTOR or autophagy,

Speaker 3  1:38:07
yeah, so it's an inhibitor of mTOR, and in fact, there's a study. It's a cell study only, but when they looked at rapamycin and mitoquin, they saw that mitoquinol is actually acting very similar to rapamycin, and the way that it mediated immune function, and also some of like the downstream path of mTOR. So, you know, like there's nutrient pathways, so I find it, you know, like one of those kinds of molecules that it does a lot of the same things that calorie restriction does just that people never know that about it, because it's just not sort of widely talked about. So it works on those same kinds of things like PGC, one Alpha activation and PK activation, cert activation. So yeah, it's gonna love longevity mechanisms.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:58
Okay, what is the name of the phyto serum product. It's

Speaker 3  1:39:02
just literally called phyto serum, but it's not commercially available, so you kind of have to Terri rig something yourself, you know, you get, like, the genesy, and you get the date seen and equal. So, yeah, that's, that's how it's working. The new study is probably going to get announced, you know, in terms of results this next year, and then I would imagine that commercial rollout will be very quick. You

Bill Clearfield  1:39:25
better be quick. Dr Benoit will have it out on the market before you. All he needs to know is the ingredients. And he he's right there.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:34
Yeah, it makes sense. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:37
So, okay, um, any anybody else have any comments or questions, there's the link for the CME credits there in the chat. It'll be on the email for next week also if, as I keep adding to them, and one of these days, I'll put it on the website, so we don't have to have an email that's as long as your arm. So, just, just so you know that it's www.eds.com/em/and, then the last four numbers are, which are specific for each lecture, and it's in your email every week, the ones that are eligible for CME credits, and we can't thank you enough, Doctor Mitchell, and we always like to say that if you, if you're if you, if we ask you to come back, you know, if you, if you're incompetent, like I am at fixing things around the house, nobody ever asked me a second time. So, so we would love to have you back. We've been here for four years, more than four years now, four years and one month, actually, every Tuesday except one Tuesday was the fourth of July, so I skipped it, but we've been here every Tuesday for four over four years. And just to let you know, next week, I have scheduled Doctor, Doctor Hartman, you know, our own Stefan. He's going to talk about catastrophic what, what you need to have in your in your arsenal if there's a catastrophic event, those we you know the atomic clock keeps ticking closer and closer to midnight. So if he's not available, then you're going to get my, my talk on longevity that I gave at ammg last week, which did include, include rapamycin, so that'll be next week. And, Dr Benoit, you still here,

Unknown Speaker  1:41:34
or I'm here, yes, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:36
Could you give a little short? Just a little short. So again, Doctor, thank you. Dr Mitchell, just a short little what's going on with the research group?

Benoit Tano  1:41:44
Oh, so we met last time, and Dr Burgess, I mean some discussions. We have to come up with some ideas about efficacy or efficiency, cost and safety. That's one of the bigger thing. And we also talked about the the videos that we wanted to make, the documentaries. So if we come up with a book or anything like that, then there will be documentaries. So Doctor Stephan actually came up with some idea. He's doing some studies looking at the iodine and how iodine deficiency is causing a lot of problems in his area. So he wanted to publish a book, and the team felt that that was a good a good idea. And if that project can be taken up by the group and publish the book and do the documentary as a first trial, that would be the best thing to do so that, and also, they asked me to give them three of the videos that I have done, so then they can review that. And that's why I sent the obesity contagion, the allergy modification, protein modification and allergic reactions and the acidic COVID problems and the videos that go along with it. So I send it all to the group. I think you have the, you have the the connection to it, right? So I'm just waiting for feedback and what people think about it. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:41
okay, um, I'll talk to you a little bit later if we can and send that out, send those links out on on our email, also, if that's okay with you,

Benoit Tano  1:43:49
yeah, that would be fine, yes. So at least people would see what we're doing.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:56
Okay, so when you're ready to join us, Dr Mitchell, we are. We have our own research group here. And yeah, and actually, somebody who actually knows what they're doing.

Speaker 3  1:44:08
We love doing research at Mito Q and in fact, if anyone wants to do research with Mito quinol and understand, you know, how it's affecting any particular disease or function, like we can give out free test products and support that research. So yeah, love to join your group. And then also, I'd love it if people wanted to come and talk to us about using Mito quinol in research.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:30
Okay, so nobody here has knows that is going to be surprised what my next question is, right? How does the Mito Q affect the different hormones?

Speaker 3  1:44:41
Ah, you know, interestingly, it seems like it's very good at preserving ovarian viability, like, like, in terms of fertility. So there's a lot of, I would say, animal studies now, you know, we hope to have some some human data soon showing that, you know, it can help with, like ovarian follicles and sort of egg quality and things like that, in terms of how it's directly affecting estrogen. I don't think we have a ton of information about that. So just a few things that you know have been shown in animal studies with testosterone is that it can definitely help support, you know, better testosterone in, you know, models of diabetes and things like that, so, you know. But I think this is an area that I would love to see more of, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:29
Okay, we'll get Doctor Quinn on that one. Okay, yeah, all right, anybody else? Okay, so Doctor Mitchell put in the chat, you know that that they love to collaborate on studies. Is there a link that you know or an email address we can we can contact. You

Speaker 3  1:45:51
can either email me, or you know, you can go to WW, mcrp, dot Dev, and that's where we have, like, our collaborative research program, and we describe how it works and all the rest, right there.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:04
Mcrp.gov You said.

Speaker 3  1:46:08
Dev, it's, yeah, it's not a gov, it's a dev, so, mcrp dot, d, e, v, Dev, oh.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:15
Dev, okay, so I need to get my hearing checked. Oh, we just

Unknown Speaker  1:46:22
spoke about

Bill Clearfield  1:46:23
that. Alright? Dr Mitchell, thank you so much. This was fascinating. And you know, we love we love having you here, and we'd certainly like to have you back at some point in the future and find out all the exciting things that you're doing. And like I said, you know, we have our research group, and it'd be good if we had somebody who like us and don't take it the wrong way. Guys knows what they're doing, so at least,

Speaker 3  1:46:55
I'm sure everyone knows what they're doing. But yeah, glad to be here and thanks. I'll talk to you all later.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:59
Okay, all right. Thank you so much. So I'll try to get an email out if there's Thursday 4pm this Thursday 4pm Pacific, it'll be 7pm Eastern. I'm actually going to be on with Lisa Tamati on her her podcast. Remember, we we had her on here. I'm going to be doing just a little intro to hormone optimization, so everybody here already knows about that stuff. I'll try and get, I'll put the link on for you. I guess

Speaker 2  1:47:32
noon in the US is at the time set. It's noon in us, like in time in the US,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:39
it's, it's noon there. I think it's noon the next

Unknown Speaker  1:47:44
what time here?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:46
What time here? 4pm our time, 4pm Pacific, Eastern. It's noon in New Zealand. Yeah. So, yeah. So we have, we acquiring some fans overseas. How we doing with our Filipino friends? Are they still like us, or they had enough of us?

Unknown Speaker  1:48:05
They're not throwing tomatoes yet. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:48:09
and the nice thing about being online is, if they throw tomatoes, they're only going

Unknown Speaker  1:48:17
to like the worst they could

Bill Clearfield  1:48:19
do to us is give us y'all some four letter words. And, you know, got it offered, I guess doctor, I guess Dr Fauci. And had it had a problem. Somebody was breaking into his thing and showing,

Speaker 2  1:48:31
oh, I was there. I saw that whole thing. Yeah. Oh, it's there. One of our Filipino colleagues, we love you still.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:38
Good, good, good, good to know. Good to know. So love is there? Yeah, good to know. And last week, we had Dr Billy. I don't know what his last name was, from Kenya. He was on, I don't think he's on tonight, he's actually invited me to come to Kenya to speak. So, so those of you who know me know I was there for nine months in 2007 I worked in a clinic in the Super district hospital out in the middle, in about nowhere. You know, the end of the electric line?

Speaker 2  1:49:07
Oh, there we we have, we have Filipino

Bill Clearfield  1:49:11
you can invite, yes. Please invite. Invite. Everybody volunteers Yes. He talks Yes. And if they're, if they're deluded enough that they want to speak. I mean, we'd be even more happy, more happy.

Speaker 2  1:49:26
I think I spoke to Dr landrito, the ivermectin guru, there in the Philippines, and he's just planning a schedule out. So he's planning to join us. So one of these Tuesdays, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:39
so those, those of you don't know, in 2007 I found myself in the Super District Hospital, which is in South, technically southeast, Kenya, 160 kilometers west of the right, Nairobi, to the electric line at Lake Victoria, and then make a left and go to the end of the line. And it was a block, a, a, not a way, say, butcher block. It was a, what are those concrete blocks, building with a tin roof, and had 50 cots in it, and every, every cot had a different person in it with some awful disease, and no X rays. Well, they had X rays, but it was cobalt, and it wasn't shielded. So I wouldn't let him turn it on. No lab. The closest MRI scanner was was in Nairobi, which was about at least a four hour drive away, but it was 80 the equivalent of 80 US dollars. And nobody there had that kind of money. So you were, you're really, went about your width. So my my Chinese medicine training, you know, pulse and tongue diagnosis, went a long way there. So, so we thought them acupuncture and pulse and traditional Chinese medicine. And I think they're still doing it. So it's 15 or 15 years later. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:59
medicine, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:01
if you want, you want to, if you want to do medicine by the seat of your pants, uh, let me tell you, that's, that's the place to do it. So, so, um, Dr queen, you got anything for us?

Speaker 4  1:51:15
No, I'm good. I think Dr Tano, pretty much covered it. We're starting to get some exciting stuff going on on the research group. So if anybody wants to join and listen in, I encourage that. Dr tennos videos are phenomenal,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:32
yeah, well, we know he's smart. We knew that from before. So Dr Tano, thanks for being with us and Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? A forum is coming up in about four weeks. So if you're going to be there, I'm going to be there at least for the general session. I'm debating whether to go to a workshop or not. I don't know if I want to, I don't want to do that, but I might so. And just a little plug, I don't, I don't, can't, can't speak to the quality of it, but Dr Halas chronic chronic disease management book is out. It's, it is on Amazon. That's somewhat of an inflated price, but it's there. So if you're, if you're interested in that, I didn't give them a little at a boy there. So Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Yes, please. Dr malaria, please invite other Asian doctors. We want every we as many as we can. We're happy to happy to have them. So anybody, any comments, questions, problems,

Benoit Tano  1:52:52
not I just invite everybody to join the diaper mediverse, because that's for now. We have opened it. People can read the books. I'm not putting a price yet, but down the road differently, I'll put some price on it. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:09
yeah, okay, so we're going to wrap that up. Wrap it up for now, Doctor Nario, anything else

Speaker 2  1:53:17
before us are good? A for him? Yeah, we're all going to be there,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:21
be there and Okay, and I'm not where. I'm not sure where dr, dr Burgess is. I hope he's okay. Have you heard from him? Dr Quinn, yeah, he

Speaker 4  1:53:32
was on on Saturday. Oh yeah, Marinos, yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  1:53:36
saw him yesterday.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:40
Okay, not great,

Speaker 1  1:53:41
but he's, he's holding on. So, okay, yeah, he

Bill Clearfield  1:53:45
had one of Titus or something. Give him some stuff. Alright, well, say a prayer for him too. Okay, please. Alright, everybody. Thank you so much. Thanks for your questions. Thanks for for participating again. Anybody who wants to even you Filipino doctors, if you want to want to give a speak, please let me know. We'd love to have you on. Okay, and thank I'm going to thank Doctor Nario for arranging for a lot of these speakers too. So I think He's the heir apparent here. So okay, so Okay, good night everybody, and we'll see you again next week. And I.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai