Speaker 1  00:00
Citations. I wanted to provide a handful of clinical citations for you. They're, of course, countless more. I chose these applications based on common complaints, as I'm sure you can attest, many of your patients deal with those issues. This breaks down clinical applications by specialty and who can add Neurofeedback into their practice, neurologists, psychiatrists, therapists, pain management docs and sleep med docs, because it helps with concussion recovery epilepsy by reducing free seizure frequency. Psychiatry helps with ADHD anxiety, depression, autism, PTSD, depression, fibromyalgia, migraines, chronic pain and helping to correct sleep disorders.

Bill Clearfield  04:06
Hey, Johnny B,

Speaker 2  04:16
how you doing? I'm doing good. I'm 100 times better than I was two months ago. So I'm a happy guy. Well, that's good. Did you get the preliminary invitation on what's going on the program? And

Bill Clearfield  04:33
I keep getting things. But, you know, I was away last week. I did a I did it. I did a thing in Pittsburgh for the AA Ma, and it must have been a big hit. I've gotten two I've gotten two invitations to do other, other other things. One of them is the I just got this today. It's from Walter Reed Bethesda Army Hospital, if they have an integrative medicine webinar once a month. Did you know that?

Speaker 2  05:07
network connectivity in the brain and the dynamic coordination on how the brain is designed, focusing on real time interactions between brain regions, instead of focusing on states or regions of the brain which historical Neurofeedback does. at that time, was only acupuncture. Nutrition was not even considered part of it. So what it is, now, I don't know, probably whatever you're teaching is what they're trying to catch up with.

Bill Clearfield  05:36
I did, I did our introduction to hormone lecture with uh, boy,

Speaker 2  05:40
your computer is funny. Bill, it freezes up.

Speaker 2  05:57
It makes it look like you're pondering on the screen for a long time. If this is a silent moment, you're in trouble. I

Unknown Speaker  06:26
uh, amazing how that happens. No sound.

Bill Clearfield  06:34
Dr Nario, do you have some questions from the audience? Yes. Dr Marley, thank you so much for that great presentation.

Speaker 2  06:40
So this is a I got first this, I guess. So this is a personal question on my end, because in in Arizona, as I do the integrative medicine fellowship, we're we are being taught on how to meditate, and also, in relation to this, gets us into a better alpha wave most of the time. And also yoga has been noted to be reaching good theta waves as well. So in this situation, what modalities, natural modalities, or external device modalities can you combine with this device? They're being real good about it. And since we want to do this long term on the East Coast, we may make this a partnership with this organization. And this is a national organization, so it would be good for all those which organization is that the brain frequencies are a thing, particularly with historic Neurofeedback and how they do it. services or something. All the national parks fall under this.

Bill Clearfield  07:49
That's, that's your ballywick, I don't know from that stuff,

Speaker 2  07:53
yeah, well, you'll, you'll find out when you get here, it's a nice thing. And you're, Marley is here. Hi. Marley Jones, yep,

Bill Clearfield  08:08
so, yeah, so

Speaker 2  08:12
who muted her? I didn't mute her. Hey, Marley, you're muted, yeah, we can't hear you.

Bill Clearfield  08:22
All right, you should be good now, you know she's serious. Yeah? A real mic that you must you must be serious about this. Yeah, had

Speaker 3  08:31
to borrow it from my son. I'm just trying to figure out how to turn my presentation on. So I'm going to mute myself, because we're going to fumble around with it. I just want to let you

Bill Clearfield  08:41
know I'm here at the bottom there. There should be a share. Yeah, yeah, you hit that when you got the slide show up then, and that should do it.

Unknown Speaker  08:58
So

Speaker 2  09:00
hey, Dr Quinn, I'm still waiting to hear from doctor. I'm still waiting to hear from Dr Tano on our video presentation, really? Yeah, I gave him the stuff on Sunday night. He's only had two days, and I think he's busy, yeah, I think so. But we have to get that video presentation out, because we need the answers in two weeks. And if you don't, if you're not on the list in two weeks, you can't get in. Uh oh yeah. Uh oh, they take it seriously. That's all right. We already got the cameras and the movie people set up, so we're doing very good. Wow. And I was just saying, Bill, I don't know if you hear it or not, we might be able to form a partnership with this national organization which will allow us to, or I should say, federal organization which allows us to work in the future with them, so we could put on maybe 1234, medical shows in this perfect place for a long time. They like the way we're doing things, so we can be real positive with this. I'm even going to get a suit, man. I haven't had anything tailored in my

Unknown Speaker  10:20
tailored suit so I don't embarrass you, Training in this range can improve sleep quality and accelerate physical recovery through your feedback. The brain can

Bill Clearfield  10:28
be in whichever frequency makes sense, in the present moment. That would be the system that I use. It is not

Speaker 2  10:35
state based training, and so it enhances overall brain function as well literally, deal. It's wonderful how it's working out. Now, John, have you sit out word to people to attend, like to the public to No, that's what the that's what the video is for. That is, is the invitation, and it shows exactly what's going on, who's doing it, and when and where to go if you want to come into Dulles, how you get there, food, food, housing, everything. Wow. Anyway, we'll talk about it more when we got a second. I think Marley's ready to roll. Well, she got it's about five o'clock, there you go. And bull's eye.

Bill Clearfield  11:26
Hold on. I'm not ready yet. So unless we like, just let Marley introduce herself. But that wouldn't be very

Speaker 3  11:37
placed on the patient's scalp and a ballistic galvanometer. Galvanometer, excuse me, you see that I shared my screen? I'm not sure if you

Unknown Speaker  11:46
haven't. Yeah,

Speaker 3  11:48
you guys do see it?

Unknown Speaker  11:51
Yep,

Speaker 3  11:52
okay, perfect. I just wanted to have it queued up so I can have my technical support go back to watching March Madness.

Bill Clearfield  12:00
Oh, we're good to go. So. foundation for research into brain activity, shaping the fields of neuroscience and neurofeedback. In the 1950s we had Yale, had

Unknown Speaker  12:19
a neuroscientist, Neil e Miller, and he revolutionized biofeedback

Bill Clearfield  12:22
by proving that autonomic functions once thought involuntary could be conditioned. He trained mice to regulate their heart rates through reinforcement, and later demonstrated that humans could consciously control physiological responses like heart rate and blood pressure using auditory biofeedback. His work laid the foundation for modern biofeedback therapies and stress management, pain control and self regulation. at least if they can't do your process, I think something closer to your standards for them to buy. Yeah, Sorry about that. Something went wrong there, because I went from 1950 to 1932 I'll have to figure fix that. The furrier analysis is a mathematical method, and this is from based on, like, I don't know that. I have an opinion on them, I think I would probably do my own research. And there's even more than these. These are just kind of like you said, the ones that are trending. I know that with with the system that I have, you know, if they cannot find a trainer locally, I can ship them a system, because I rent them and I can ship them anywhere. And so it can be very, very cost effective, particularly if you rent a system like

Speaker 3  13:50
you know, my in person sessions are relatively inexpensive because I live in a county. Well, part of it is because I come from the chronic illness community, and I know what it's like to not have money and try trying to be outside the box with medicine, because Lyme is still complicated and not, you know, having allopathic help to treat it and looking for for help. So I've priced mine lower than a lot of places, but for a rental, say, for a family of four, you know, I charge roughly $79 a session, about the price of a massage, but for a family of four to rent a system over a month, and if they use it once or twice a day, it works out To like, $5 a session. So rentals make a lot of sense for families, particularly because it's it's a training, it's a we are. true brain optimization. This is where neurofeedback, which is a powerful form of neuromodulation, comes in. Neurofeedback is a non invasive, evidence based method that harnesses the brain's natural ability to self regulate and adapt to change by providing this real time feedback on the cortical activity, Neurofeedback guides the brain toward healthier patterns, enhancing cognitive function, emotional resilience and overall neurological health. So as physicians who prioritize root cause healing, Neurofeedback offers an exciting opportunity to address neurological imbalances at their source. So let's get going and dive into the science and discover how we can integrate this technology into our practices to help patients achieve lasting health. You guys ready? Okay, the agenda tonight is I want to cover what neurofeedback is, and I recently wrote an in depth article on interoception and allostatic load and why that's important for integrative physicians to understand when it comes to neuroscience and better treating the patient. I and he wanted to see what happened and how resistant they were in the epileptic seizures when exposed to the convulsant chemical mono methyl hydrazine, he demonstrated a direct link between brain wave, again, brain doesn't wave. That's a misnomer. Brain Train, cortical training and neurological resilience. Then from there, since he initially used cats for his research before applying his findings to humans with patients with epilepsy, he did some work out of the University of California, Los Angeles, UCLA in 1971 is when he started using it on a human epileptic patient, and he found that the patient's seizures could be significantly reduced and controlled through the neurofeedback training. And his research paved the way for EEG Neurofeedback as a non invasive treatment for epilepsy. The then in 1976 Joel Lubar, an American psychologist, neuroscientist at the University of Tennessee, advanced EEG biofeedback research. And he built upon sermons work by studying Neurofeedback for epilepsy and expanded the EEG biofeedback applications to ADHD and hyperactivity, and demonstrated that training specific brain wave frequencies could improve attention as well as impulse control. His research played a critical role in establishing Neurofeedback as an alternative treatment for ADHD. Then move ahead to 1999 there is the development of the neuro optimal and Zen guard Institute software. We just celebrated our 25th year, and it is a fully automated dynamical Neurofeedback system introduced by the zengar Institute out of Quebec, Canada. Unlike traditional neurofeedback, which targets specific brain frequencies. Neuro optimal operates as a non linear, real time system that responds dynamically to the brain's activity through its auto navigational algorithm based software. This design provides a more optimized movement within the brain. because you're saying the public gets it through you by you letting them rent it. Is that correct? No, not necessarily. This. These systems that are actually plug and play, they're designed for people to be able to use at home because of the auto navigational software in it, and that there's no requirement for QEG or protocol. So the there's two systems that zinc are offers. There's a personal system that is less expensive, and it is pre loaded. Sorry. It says my connections unstable. So tell me, if you can't hear me, there's they're pre loaded with, okay, they're pre loaded with, like, 100 sessions. Those, those systems are less expensive, but they don't make a lot of sense, excuse me to purchase those, because the professional systems, people will buy for personal use as well, because the system is unlimited, and as long as you're licensed with the software, any upgrades, they're all included. So ultimately, what often can happen is people will come to you as a clinician, and Zenga is supportive that if you want to just provide sessions, you can do that, but if you wanted to provide rentals and families that come from out of town, then you can have an income stream with rentals. And that's what I do. I have in person sessions, I provide rentals, and I also do system sales. So if there was a family that decided, you know, our family needs this, we want to own our own. Then if you are a part of the zync art community, then you earn a referral commission as well. I got so it's, it is available for the public. And sounds like you have a lot of, I guess clients here, they're also doing that. behavioral outcomes. I'm sorry I missed. Oh, no. Meaning it is available for the public. It's not a professional device only use like a medical professional, because, because of the cost, it generally is more professionals that buy it, sure, but it is made available, and that's been the heart of Zen guard from the beginning, is to make it available to relieve suffering for people, and that it is a self empowerment experience for them, so that, you know, nervous system regulation would also improve. So I mentioned that we're going to talk about interoception. Basically interoception is the ability to sense internal body states. for example when you're relaxed. it so it works well with that model as well. Okay, and here's a something I think this is in relation to how you were discussing going through the different stages, uh, brain stages, getting stuck. You mentioned about getting stuck, how? How are you getting stuck? I mean, do you can you get out of that real quick? Or are you doomed when you get stuck? I think that's what the question meant, yeah, well, before my brain was healed, I so I have, I had chronic mold toxins to do that I grew up with. So I was sick from the time I was in grade four, and then I had multiple head injuries that developed into pretty significant panic disorder and anxiety and depression. And then I got Lyme disease in 1999 so I've had up until about five years ago, I had a lifetime of being stuck in fight or flight and just a chronic baseline level of anxiety, hyper vigilance overwhelm all the time, and So my cortical patterns were stuck. And, you know, those neural pathways, they're kind of like wagon ruts that run really deep, because your brain is designed to keep you alive, and it is always, always learning through patterns. And so if you've had that horrible experience, whether it's a, you know, to me, traumas on a spectrum. You could have had a high ACE score as a child and developed all kinds of mental health issues, neuro neurological coping mechanisms that you know, whether it's, you know, ticks or it's a obsessive behaviors or addictions, whatever, because your nervous system gets dysregulated and feels stuck, and then you start looking for things to feel safe. You start looking for things to distract you or to numb the feelings or escape it. And when it's in your when you're living in that and you never get a break.

Speaker 3  23:21
activity in the deeper brain structures. And it's not just using the sensors, it's a whole cap. And it goes a little bit deeper for picking up the cortical frequencies. It targets specific brain networks, particularly the amygdala for emotional regulation and prefrontal cortex for focus, and it provides feedback to encourage functional connectivity between different brain regions. An example would be someone with obsessive compulsive disorder or trauma, and it can assist the brain to train deep emotional processing areas to improve emotional regulation and reduce those OCD behaviors. Next, there's infra low frequency ILF trains the brain or cortical activity that is the very low info, the low point one hertz, and it is slower than delta waves. These infra low frequencies regulate large scale brain networks responsible for mood stability and self regulation, instead of training specific brain frequencies, the ILF Neurofeedback system reports that it modulates the brain self regulation system, which is nice. It just helps support it helping with chronic issues like anxiety, autism or PTSD, if the brain is stuck in a hyper aroused state, which is common in PTSD and complex PTSD ILF training reports helping to shift it toward a more balanced resting state, which is a plus. And the dynamical Neurofeedback or neuro optimal system, is unlike any other form, because neuro optical does not target specific brain frequencies or have a set redefined goal. It constantly monitors brain activity and detect detects sudden fluctuations or oscillations, and then it will trigger a small auditory disruption, a click or a pause sound, and this pause makes the brain self correct, naturally, improving flexibility and efficiency over time. It works on the principle of non linear dynamics, letting the brain self optimize rather than forcing a change or to target to a particular state. It works on the premise of an invitation to the brain in the central nervous system, instead of an intervention, thus allowing the body to be supported in its healing priority, it allows the brain to see what it needs to see, and then it can heal accordingly. An example would be a person dealing with chronic stress, they report becoming more adaptable and flexible to change and builds more resilience over time.

Speaker 1  25:49
So

Speaker 3  25:55
I wanted to, this is when I found out I had more time to share. I wanted to dig a little bit deeper here because of Carl Prim. I'm not sure if you all are familiar with him. He died in 2015 he was almost 100 and he was 96 when he passed away, just an absolute brilliant neuroscientist, and he understood the brain as a dynamical processor, that the brain is not a machine, and traditional models viewed the brain that it was like a computer, that it had a to b linear processing, as well as it was Just a chemical factory, and it was neurotransmitter driven Caribbean. Holonomic brain theory states that the brain processes information dynamically, adapting in real time, and it uses holographic principles or patterns rather than static storage, and it works through self organization rather than pre programmed pathways. This is important, because when you look at Dr prebras, he was a pioneer in cognitive neuroscience, and he bridged psychology and neuroscience, which is becoming more and more a thing. Thankfully, we have such a mental health crisis in this country that I don't know if you guys have heard, but the Trump administration, this is a side note, has an initiative of combining, I think that for depression, I mean, they're, they're very separate in what they do. You're talking about the magnet therapy, right, right? Yeah, no, it's just different. I mean, that is, again, that's, that's stimulatory to the body. I don't touch that because, as a naturopath, I'm looking for things that don't stimulate or augment so but I've heard amazing things, particularly for depression, with TMS. Okay, okay, um, I'm pretty sure you answered this. What's the process to become a trainer? Get in touch with you. is not a static organ. It is not a machine. It is not linear. Rather, it functions as a complex dynamical system, meaning that its activity is always evolving in response to internal and external stimuli. Therefore, it is ever changing and responding to internal and external stimuli constantly. It is not linear by any means. Dynamical is a mathematical term, and a system and use it and then become certified so they can offer it professionally. And so, yeah, I do offer the certification courses. I do them quarterly. But I mean, if anybody on this call was like, Yeah, I'm ready to get a system, and I don't have anything on the books, and there was enough of you that wanted to do it, I would just get on here and create another zoom. It's a two day training. And the the certification is like 660 I think, US dollars, and then you can offer it professionally. And then, of course, then you're part of the Zen guard community, and they help promote you for people that are looking a lot of people find you know they're looking for providers, and they'll either Google search or they'll get online and look for a trainer in their area. Okay, okay, any other questions? Anybody? Thank you so much. We will be in touch. I'll get you the contact list for all of the our participants and you know, we, what we and in his studies, my son encounters dynamical systems when studying how aircraft and spacecraft respond to forces, how control systems adjust for stability, and how celestial bodies move according to gravitational laws, all governed by differential equations. Sounds a lot like the brain. Dr Val and Sue brown developed their optimal software as an algorithm that detects the dynamical changes of the brain for it to choose how to self optimize. And this goes along with Dr pilms theory that it works through self organization, or as we have termed synchronization, through chaos, instead of pre programming pathways or states.

Speaker 3  30:28
His research on neural processing and the neural networks processes data as a whole, not as in isolated parts, the brain constantly adjusts, reorganizes, in response to new stimuli. This is a bit of review. I already covered it, but it's good to note memory and perception, function move are more like wave patterns than than stored files. The implication is, is that the brain's dynamical nature means it doesn't need fixing, but rather self regulation, the five phase model is something that Dr Val brown developed in neurofeedback, and it for the understanding that the progressive stages of self regulation and transformation that happens in neurofeedback. And he emphasizes that traditional Neurofeedback often focuses on symptom reduction by training specific brain frequencies, whereas neuro optimal aligns more closely with the brain's natural dynamical process thing based on Dr piroms research, the non linear processing that it does highlights that the brain operates as a dynamical system, meaning its activity is not simply linear or mechanical, but adapts based on moment to moment needs. And in this it allows the practitioner or the user to avoid overtraining, because unlike traditional neurofeedback, which can over train specific frequencies. Neuro optimal works with the brain's natural self correcting ability, rather than imposing rigid protocols, which is interesting, because a lot of the reasons why people seek neurofeedback training is because their stress regulation and their cell danger response in the body has become very rigid, and so what we want to do with the dynamical neurofeedback is to break up those rigid patterns so that the cortical activity that has people being stuck can make a shift and can self optimize a self evolving system. Is what this looks like. He describes the process as moving from rigid control to fluid adaptability, mirroring how human learning and development unfold naturally. Dr Val and Sue Brown's work supports the idea that it is a congruent with the brain's natural design, as it doesn't force specific patterns, but instead allows the brain to reorganize itself, which is actually really, really important. I have a colleague of mine who contacted me with with somebody that was very much in distress with their child, and started neurofeedback. And it was not the type of Neurofeedback that I use. It was a more of a medical intervention, and what I've seen consistently I've been offering this system now for three and a half years, is that when somebody is already stuck in a rigid pattern of being stressed, when you medically intervene, the brain already is on guard. So sometimes this type of intervention can is so stimulating to the brain and central nervous system that you're trying to calm it down, and the cost is too great. How neuro optimal supports Dr Val's five phase model is that in phase one, where there's the instability, neuro optimal detects that turbulence in the brain, cortical activity, and in phase two, it's going to reinforce by the system providing that real time feedback, helping the brain to self correct. The integration in phase three is that the brain starts using more efficient pathways, because the brain is always looking to move away from discomfort and discover the fastest way from point A to B. And phase four is that the flexibility happens within as the brain learns it learns how to become more flexible and adaptable to change, the users report that it's more that they become better, adaptable and and they reduce their stress or their cell danger responses. And Phase Five would be resilience, and this after a period of time of training, I've seen happen time and time again, where brain function will stabilize and continue to self optimize, so that every time life throws you a curveball, you can handle it because you're adaptive and ever changing and you're dynamical, as the design of the brain really is. So despite there being several other core forms of Neurofeedback on the market, I am wholeheartedly because I've had a past with other systems, and I have I'm trying to be objective. Of course, I have some colleagues and friends, even from college, that actually are franchising Neurofeedback clinics, and they use the historical form, and they have told me all the side effects and all the challenges that they have had, and I think that they're on the wrong side of the fence, because neuro optimal undoubtedly honors the body's innate design and intelligence to self regulate and self heal if given the opportunity. Plus, I really believe that it honors best the Hippocratic Oath, as it emphasizes that inpatient welfare were meant to do no harm, and since it's non invasive and there's no side effects, it's more in line. So how this relates to Carl prims research is that his work shows that the brain operates on self organizing principles, and neuro optimal aligns with this by providing feedback, without prescribing a ridge instructor for adherence, but it encourages the natural adaptability rather than enforcing artificial states, and it allows the brain to self optimize, rather than treating it As a broken machine.

Speaker 3  36:36
actually experienced these special moments that I myself was dumbfounded, so but anyway, my point there is drumming is is something that shamans do, and this actually releases a lot of endorphins, and it's called the drummer's high, like a feeling of euphoria when you do that. And that also Dr Halas favorite, I guess, hormone oxytocin, gets released, so that feeling of healing and elation starts to happen in you, and you just get into the system. So that's more of a personal experience that not learning, but experience. We should say that we are going to have drumming sessions at our May 30. There. There you go. It'll actually be on one day. It'll be a lot of one of our days is going to be very Native American, with nature and mindfulness. We will have drumming there, and by the way, Kent Crowley is going to be one of our lectures there on some of the natural treatments. So drumming will be part of our session, and usually it comes from the Lakota Nation, but they all get together for the pow wow. So it's a beautiful thing. And yes, you will cry, yep, I trust me, it's a totally different experience, a good experience. We actually did in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania. We used to we ran it at my office every once a week, a drumming session. We did it for about two years, and it was, it's kind of an eye opening thing. Some of it was, I don't know, a little bit, you know, swarmy, you know. Then, then they would, all, you know, start talking about their lives and whatnot and whatnot. So have some experience with that. So, oh, there, yeah, it's good stuff. Okay, alright, just so, so Doctor, Doctor Marley, thank you so much for everything in the chat there she has the it's $10,000 about for the the professional system, certification is $660 which is for two days session, which is pretty darn reasonable. There's about 12 to 15 sessions for adults and less for children. There's contact information here, and we'll put it up on the website. Anybody wants that. And also, there's a link from article from a DR Val Brown. Okay, so if you're anybody else, have any comments or questions for our guest, please join us again sometime in the future, and we're here every Tuesday night. If you're interested in what we're doing every Tuesday night, same time, same station. We've been doing this since October of 2020, and I think we've missed two, two Tuesdays. It was holidays in in four and a half years. So and so we're going strong So, and there's a link. It says neuro feedback in line. I can't click the links, or else I'll break the connection. So I'll let you guys out there do that. So okay, um, anything else? Doctor Quinn, how's the research group going? Going well, going well, we're still, we're pushing ahead. We got a major focus going on for the meeting in West Virginia right now. But otherwise, we're all still going, and I've had a occasion to have somebody else come into the thought process of a research thing on collagen, so we'll see where that goes. Okay, all right. And I have a DR tan. I see he's on here. I don't know if he's got anything for us this week. So I know you're out there. Dr Tanner, I apologize last time. I know, I know you're shy. I'm really I was so tired. I had clinical tired. I couldn't really do it. But last week, no, that don't worry about that. We're good with that. We just dr, dr Burgess is pressuring you to do some sort of videos. Get the so we get the word out about this conference. Oh, yeah, yeah, that is in the works. Yes. Okay, okay. All right, everybody, thank you all and you know, I see you know a few new names, and thank you for being with us. And bring one friend. I always like to say that, and we'll double our census. We had a pretty good crowd tonight. And like I said, next week, constitutional, homeopathy. So you know, it's not one size fits all. So with that, we'll say good night and you know, and we'll see you again next time. Thank you. Video to you, Dr Marley, soon as it's ready. And also the participant list. Thank you again, so much for the opportunity to share. and God bless y'all. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  48:05
its activity in response to internal and external stimuli, reflecting its adaptability and resilience. So think of process variability, like driving a car on a busy road, if you always drove that car at exactly 50 miles per hour, regardless of traffic, the weather, the road conditions, you'd likely end up in trouble. Instead, you would naturally adjust your speed, slowing down for traffic, speeding up on an open road or stopping in a red light. Similarly, your brain constantly adjusts its activity, the cortical signals based on what's happening inside and around you. If the brain loses this ability to adapt, it can lead to mental or physical imbalances, just like rigid driving would lead to accidents. So again, our brain is infinitely cycling and self regulating. We understand there are no absolute values that are inherently best for the amount of activity required for specific functions. It always varies from brain to brain, and it always varies with time from that same brain. In other words, our system generally regulates to around a blood pressure of 120, over 80 or to a temperature of 98.6 but this does not stay constant, nor is it fixed.

Unknown Speaker  49:22
I Yes. So to review linear and or historical nerve feedback is based on amplitude and frequency based detection. It will detect and train specific amplitude and frequencies of a brain cortical pattern activity. Electrodes on the scalp. Measure raw EEG signals in all these systems, and the EEG is broken into frequency bands. They look for data, Delta, data, theta, delta, theta, alpha, beta, gamma. I need some coffee. Target specific frequency ranges, adjusting amplitude to meet training goals. And it assumes that certain cortical patterns respond or correspond optimally to or to sub optimal states, conditioning the brain towards whatever that desired or normal range is. And the limitations is that it assumes a universal ideal state for all brains, and it has a risk of over training or dysregulation, creating new imbalances and a delayed feedback that can actually may not capture real time brain activity

Unknown Speaker  50:30
making sense of the EEG chaos. Let me. Let me go through this first with that, with the amplitude and frequency based detection of historical neurofeedback, the

Unknown Speaker  50:46
Oh, I just covered that. I'm sorry if the targets or specific frequency ranges, either increasing or decreasing their amplitude, are always based on the predetermined training goals of the practitioner, and that is a concern to me. I kind of feel like some of these people that read a Q, E, E, G and build a protocol, because I had it done. It helped my anxiety, but it made my chronic fatigue infinitely worse. And I did feel like the psychiatric nurse that was doing this for me, I was a little bit of a marionette puppet. The system assumes that a particular brain or cortical pattern corresponds to an optimal or sub optimal state. And again, it's not ideal for everyone. So I know I'm repeating myself over and over again. I just really believe it's very, very important that we don't just look at amplitude and frequency. So with our system, we take into consideration the joint time frequency analysis, and this is where the intricate workings. I can't tell you all the ways that it works, because it's proprietary. And there's a reason Dr Val and his ex wife are so successful because it is proprietary, and we're always learning about the brain, but this is a controlled procedure that we say is basically looking at the brain and it is synchronizing through chaos. It is using a mathematical process that's able to measure and give feedback data to the central nervous system about the electrical activity of the brain. Instead of isolating and training specific frequency, it continuously monitors real time shifts in brain activity across time and frequency simultaneously. It's crazy because it processes that information at 256, times a second, and that's only because that's as fast as Microsoft can compute it. The system does not assume any ideal states of the brain. Instead, it just simply detects moment to moment fluctuations, giving that information back to the brain. So it's just more effective because it is more in tune with how the brain works, and it doesn't over train. There's no side effects like fatigue or headaches or emotional dysregulation. When frequencies are pushed too far in one direction, it avoids this because all it is doing is giving the brain information about itself.

Unknown Speaker  53:17
So I don't want to beat a dead horse, but let's talk about development and just some common sense things here. Crank starts on a car would be a little bit how early Neurofeedback was. It was overly rigid, very manual. And in the early days of automobiles, you had to manually crank the car engine to start the car. It was a rigid step by step process, requiring precise effort and technical know how similarly, early Neurofeedback required heavy intervention, manual adjustments and strict protocols, assuming the brain needed to be fixed in a stepwise manner, like a crank start car. Early Neurofeedback required a lot of effort and wasn't adaptable to real world driving conditions, or in this case, brain states. Then as Neurofeedback developed, similarly, we have manual transmission. This is with guided training. As technology progressed, manual transmission cars became more efficient, but they still required the driver to shift gears at the right time, and the five phase model works similarly near feedback specialists Carefully guide the brain through preset training processes, adjusting protocols as needed, and the process is structured, but it assumes the driver or the brain won't shift correctly without intervention, while more effective than cranking manual transmission still relies on the driver's skill, just Like the five phase model relies on the practitioner protocols to guide the brain. And more advanced automatic cars, there's they're still a little bit structured. They make driving easier. There's no need to shift gears, but you still have to steer and be fully engaged. So some near feedback system. Today's are like automatic cars, they remove some manual work, but still require adjustments, monitoring and intervention. The brain is given some freedom, but the system still dictates structure phases. Instead of allowing self regulation, like automatic cars, these systems reduce effort, but don't fully allow the driver or the brain to operate autonomously. Welcome to the future, my friends, self driving cars similar to what neuro optimal does, if you like. My analogy here, the latest innovation in car technology is self driving cars, systems that adapt in real time to road conditions traffic and the drivers needs without requiring manual control. Your optimal works the same way it provides real time feedback, allowing the brain to self correct without needing structures training or phases of manual adjustments, just like self driving cars make movement, make moment to moment calculations for the safest, smoothest rise. Your optimal provides the brain with instant feedback, enabling it to optimize organically, and it's all programmed into its auto navigation. It's an algorithm in the software that when it detects changes, it alerts through the nerve feedback audio loop, and it doesn't force the brain through structured phases, which is where a healthy brain and central nervous system lies, where it is always in the present moment. Here's the feedback loop. It's very simple. I can't see my screen, so I'm going to kind of open it up a little bit here. If you guys can see that the voltage fluctuations are measured on the EEG signal your optimal software analyzes it at 256 times a second, detecting four ways, which we call the duration, intensity, frequency and shifts and any external noise is cleared out by the other sensors that are attached to your ears. Then the it goes into the amplifier and it converts it from analog to digital, and then the information is fed back to the individual by slight interruptions in the media stream, and the central nervous system responds and adjusts as natural indication that changes the internal external environment have been made, and this is where personal transformation occurs, when the Individual trains towards flexibility and resilience, and they perceive internal external turbulence for what it is, and it helps our interoception kind of dial in better. And overall, we want the allostatic load through using this system to decrease as well. I think it's fair that, because you guys have probably ran across this, you might have seen him. There are some other Neurofeedback devices that are on the market. There's the narbus smart glasses. It uses built in EEG sensors to monitor brain activity, particularly focus and attention levels. The lenses will actually darken when focus shifts and clear point attention is maintained, providing real time visual feedback. Visual feedback to help improve concentration. There's the Muse headband that one's popular. It's a soft EEG based headband that tracks brain activity, heart rate and breathing. It provides real time feedback through an app on your phone, using soundscapes and guided meditations to train the brain for improved relaxation, focus and sleep. There's the B medic neuro amp, a professional Neurofeedback system used in clinical settings. This captures EEG signals and provides tailored feedback through visual, auditory and tactile stimuli, allowing patients to train specific brain or cortical patterns. There's an another one. There's a new technology. Now they've been around since, I think 2004 and their name escapes me. I have it in my notes somewhere. The developer called me from Italy. He was at a bio hacking bio feedback conference in Northern Italy presenting his software there. And it is, again, an entrainment. He said it's functional neurofeedback. And he assured me, as a naturopath, that it worked along with the body, but as he told me how it worked, it was very much like this medic neuro amp, where it is targeted training to keep you in a particular state. Then there's the Mendi neurofeedback. That's another one that's popular, like the Muse headband. It's a headband that uses near infrared spectroscopy, an NRS or NIRS. It's measures brain activity and blood flow. And that's a little bit, I mean, it's, it's, it's biofeedback, I think, combined with neurofeedback, it provides real time feedback through mobile app, encouraging users to train their prefrontal cortex for better focus mood regulation and cognitive function. And the issue with some of these, like the Mendi versus the muse, is just their lack of efficacy. There's poor signal quality and artifact contamination. Because they're they're kind of gadgety. They they aren't using EEGs in the same way the clinical nerve feedback uses advanced artifact rejection to filter out noise for muscle movement in the EEG that we use things like blinking and external electrical interference, they come they are canceled out. However, with these consumer grade EEG devices, they struggle to distinguish between real brain activity from movement and artifacts. And if you're going to be wearing one of these, you don't want to be chewing gum. Muse and Mandy, for example, are highly susceptible to motion, noise and environmental interference, making their feedback unreliable. And those glasses, the first thing that I listed, they rely on blink detection, which is not accurate measure of cognitive engagement or brain activity. What happens if you have dry eyes and you have to blink more, you're gonna have trouble using that device. So this means this training is often based on false data, leading to ineffective or misleading feedback.

Unknown Speaker  1:01:11
Okay? Typical Neurofeedback users children and adults with ADHD ASD and learning disorders I know at Zen gar institute that 75% of the people that buy our systems are moms that are trying to help their children. They either have social anxiety disorder, ADHD, they're stuck in a stress overwhelm a lot of and it's never just typically one condition, ADHD, if not handled and supported properly, I've, I've dealt with people in their 70s that got diagnosed late in life with ADHD, and of course, they developed social anxiety disorders and generalized anxiety disorders because they just never felt like they could handle what everybody else was doing. Their ability to learn in that structured type environment didn't work. Same with neuro divergent families. I don't know if you docs have been familiar with this, as I have, but I'm starting to see multiples of children that are on the spectrum and not just one family member. I'm seeing multiples, and I don't, I don't know how these families can handle what they've got to do, so I sell them a system so that they can all train and support themselves. Those with sleep disorders are typical Neurofeedback users, one that the really by and large, as far as our reports and our findings and all of the millions of sessions that we've run at zengra Institute. Then across the board, the number one thing that people notice improves overall and often first is their sleep. Also people seeking cognitive and emotional balance or focus, individuals with anxiety, PTSD and mood disorders are perfect candidates to train. I love working with veterans and first responders because their cortical patterns get stuck and they they need help.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:23
I also work with some of world record holders in their sports, peak performers, athletes, executives and creatives use nerve feedback to just better themselves and to make their brains operate better and also, and this is kind of where I landed on neurofeedback, because I came from the chronic illness and pain community, some clinical applications, and I wanted to provide you with on the next slide, a lot of citations that you can have. Excuse me, ADHD studies show that 30 to 50% improvement in symptoms compared to stimulant medications by using neurofeedback, anxiety and post traumatic stress disorder, reduces the amygdala hyperactivity and promotes emotional regulation, depression and enhances prefrontal activity, improving mood and cognitive function. Insomnia, where it regulates the sensory, motor rhythm and helps with better sleep. And then chronic pain, because it modulates pain perception because of cortical regular organization, again, where those persistent, consistent cortical patterns or the brain can get stuck, whether the infection is gone or the broken leg is over with our brains sometimes don't know the difference when it gets stuck. Here's.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai