Bill Clearfield  00:18
Well, hi, Bill, Hey, there, so I, I have been listening to Lindsay Burton's, everything hormones, and I listen to you,

Unknown Speaker  00:29
uh huh.

Bill Clearfield  00:30
What'd I do? A give you an A plus. Oh, yay. I Well, while, while we're letting everybody else in, can I ask you a couple of things, though, so another influencer, your integrative OBGYN, from Irvine, California, that we've had on this number of times has now stated that I that oral progesterone is not very good and there's a whole bunch of reasons she gave that I never heard of before,

Unknown Speaker  01:06
making you fat.

Bill Clearfield  01:08
It makes you fat. It doesn't really do what it says it's going to do. She you should only use the cream.

Speaker 1  01:16
Oh, how weird. Progesterone works beautifully.

Bill Clearfield  01:20
Yeah. I My, my experience is the exact opposite that the cream doesn't is pretty weak for the most part, at least the over the counter ones.

Speaker 1  01:30
And, yeah, I use higher doses creams, the ones that are over the counter, 100, 200 milligram per per gram kind of thing. But the skin, the skin is iffy, because if you're low thyroid, often the cause not enough circulation to the skin surface, and your low temperature in the skin is a problem. Then if you're stressed, if you have high adrenaline, what does that do? It constricts all your little blood vessels, which is where you need to get the progesterone in. So when that's the case, oral progesterone is much more effective. In those circumstances,

Bill Clearfield  02:12
I've always found it to be more effective. And she says it doesn't work. I mean, I

Unknown Speaker  02:17
works like a charm.

Bill Clearfield  02:19
Gets that for them. I We do occasionally have problems with the commercial product because it's made with peanut oil.

Speaker 1  02:27
You know, you know, we're the only country they they make that and sell it in New Zealand, Australia, Canada, Great Britain, and it has safflower oil and no dyes, sunflower on the

Bill Clearfield  02:47
other hand. On the other hand, we can get pregnant alone and DHEA, you know, at the dollar store. And you can't get that in a brick in Europe at all.

Speaker 1  02:55
No, it's really and DHEA is a controlled drug in Canada. Yeah. Really, some big problems,

Bill Clearfield  03:03
yeah, so, yeah, so I you hadn't, I know you hadn't talked about that was two years old, and, you know, this has been so the other and the other thing is, what do you say about those who advocate for continuous, you know, post menopausal dosing, so that the patients are continue to have a bleeding

Speaker 1  03:27
like and that's what Felice Gersh has endorsed the Wiley protocol

Bill Clearfield  03:33
that well, that's, that's, that's the my, the integrative obg, I wasn't going to mention her by name. So, because I like, I like Felice, and

Speaker 1  03:41
I do too. But you know what they're running into? I get some clients like this. They're endometrium builds up really heavily, and this because two weeks lots of estrogen, no progesterone, and then finally you add some progesterone, but it might not be enough for all the build up you've had. So Suzanne summers had a hysterectomy. I have another Amy Horniman. Do you know her name? I'll just say that, because she's put it publicly out on on the internet. So she talked to me, she had a real big build up, and she's doing that method. She prescribes it all the time. She thinks it's wonderful. So she had all that build up. And I said, Take more progesterone. Take more progesterone, and you've got to take it, you know, some all month long. And she said, so she tried, like, 600 milligrams. Didn't really do it for her. And so she ended up having an ablation. Then it turns out, she then gets diagnosed with some cancer, stage one cancer, so she had a hysterectomy, unbelievable. And thinks she knows she because she knows how to prescribe hormones, she thinks she's not going to have any trouble

Bill Clearfield  04:59
with actually, sometimes you know too much surgical menopause. Just ask

Speaker 2  05:06
you, well, you know, who, who loves to bleed? So this is more of a cultural aspect. So the the Middle Easterns, so they, they like this concept of when they bleed, they're still in their reproductive and their flower of their youth, right? So that's kind of like how because they're in the Muslim culture, it's polygamy. It kind of maintains you to be one of the better partners when you're still bleeding, and it, of course, gives you more of a youthful reminder. But really, as you can see, as Carol said, these are not really good things to apply to patients, especially here in the US, you're going to get, you're going to get in trouble with this one way or another.

Bill Clearfield  06:00
Well, I mean, you know, her, her and her cohorts stay state very clearly. This is the way to do it. The other ways is not physiologic and and you're going to get into trouble doing it the, you know, the way we've been, we've been taught. So I just just more careful approach. I don't know. I have patients that I've been seeing for 20 some years and haven't run into them, and I keep Dr Nari, I muted you accidentally. I know I talk too much. I keep going back to I know it dealt with, dealt with a guy about two years ago, in the summer, I had a patient call me on a Monday, a male said he had a heart attack over the weekend, and he was in the hospital, and he had a stent placed, and my, my right hand person who's, you know, the executive director of the Nevada board of homeopathic medicine, by the way, who's been with me for 10 years. I asked her, I said, When was the last time we had a patient in our practice that had a had a heart attack an MI? And she said to me that she's that she couldn't, couldn't think of one, and I couldn't either. Now, back home, when I was a real doctor, you know, the insurance doctor and whatnot, we had three a week, and that was considered normal. In fact, if we only had one or two a week that, you know, we were getting questioned, you know, what was, you know, that we were we were missing things. So, I mean, I keep going back to that, there's got to be some way to sort of quantify that and whatnot. I mean, that's not, not what I know how to do. But, you know, I mean, I got a book we, I mean, we all have a book of, you know, couple of 1000 patients say, how would we be able to, you know, put together some statistics on that. Who knows how to do that?

Unknown Speaker  08:00
Carol, yeah, we have to do it one way or another.

Speaker 1  08:05
You find a university with this student's statistics looking for a PhD thesis.

Speaker 3  08:12
Okay? University of Robert Quinn, perfect universe.

Bill Clearfield  08:17
Status, Robert, Robert quinis i

Speaker 2  08:24
So here's a here's something from a for M that made the Head Start. Are you?

Bill Clearfield  08:28
Are you? Are you back now? Are you able to talk

Speaker 2  08:30
this week? Well, as you can see, I'm just pushing it. The Mojo is not there yet, but it's getting back.

Bill Clearfield  08:36
Would it really like over to Coles?

Speaker 2  08:39
Yeah. So the in a for m, there was a speaker who was saying that it's okay to actually give testosterone to 18 year olds. That really shook the crowd and even the faculty. So that was something, and that's part of his talk. Also. Dr Mario,

Unknown Speaker  08:59
is that men or women or what?

Speaker 2  09:01
Oh, this is men, like a 10 year old men. He was saying, it's okay to give testosterone to these age groups. And also it's okay because he, he himself, is using testosterone. He has an estrogen level of, I think, 100 plus, and he's saying, don't even check it. It's so controversial. I myself, I don't use aromatase inhibitors at a level of one. I'm fine. I'm pretty happy with my current level of estrogen.

Bill Clearfield  09:31
I wasn't Dr camarello,

Speaker 2  09:32
was it? No, no, it was a it's a nurse practitioner who was trying to promote a product.

Speaker 4  09:40
And Rus teaches that, uh huh. Neil roussier teaches that, right?

Speaker 2  09:47
So he's also teaching a hormone club, but not, not, not doctor is a but this guy is just like every faculty member just kind of want to get to the stage and choke him to death, just because every though he is a sponsor, but that's the crazy things that we get. But now it became to a point that we have to screen these sponsors and what they want to teach. So it's a good thing he did that is now we're going to be screening the them guys, even though they're paying stuff, it doesn't mean they have the license to say whatever they want. And to the point that you derail these fellow and these were the fellows also were listening, and they're kind of teaching their way through integrative medicine, and you're getting giving them these type of information. I mean it, I'm not saying it's it's wrong. There might be literature that he might be right. But starting with with students who wants to learn is the right way. So you give them the proper foundation and knowledge first, when you give these esoteric ideas about getting those numbers that high and putting it, I mean giving young people testosterone, for God's sake, 18 year old,

Bill Clearfield  10:52
what was, what was his rationale?

Speaker 2  10:55
No, it's estrogen is just nothing. It's, it's useless. It's, it's it's not something that you check on men. It's only significant for for women. So he's running at that. He's using his own self as an no one saying that I'm I'm a living example that 100 plus of estrogen is not doing anything to me. But how would you know what's going on with your arteries? What's going on with the blood vessels. So that's the thing. Have you done any checks on that? So again, that was never when we didn't go into this department. What's the,

Bill Clearfield  11:33
what's the, what's the, not counting the outlier there, what's the current consensus on estrogen, aromatase inhibitors and estrogen levels for for males on testosterone

Speaker 2  11:47
therapy, you still control that. That still is significant. You put it in the the normal range where it should be. It shouldn't be put in those extreme ranges.

Bill Clearfield  11:59
Okay, so we've, we've, we've had a little bit of a sea change in our in some of our groups, and so we, when we, when I first started, way back when, in the Dark Ages, when we followed the gym rats, we would, we would use aromatase inhibitors to get estrogen levels to zero. And that pretty much didn't, didn't pan out very well for those that aren't familiar with with the the issue. So testosterone aromatizes, breaks down into estrogen, estradiol. Estradiol levels rise with testosterone therapy more within injectables than with the transdermal And originally, 25 years ago, we would use, we would automatically use aromatase inhibitors, an astrozole, or what's, what's the other one, something, someone in a metal, yeah. Do tear aside, yeah, right. And get there, the estradiol levels to zero. Well, men need some estrogen for blood flow to the brain and for for memory and for a lot of other things also. So we kind of settled on 15 to 25 as an acceptable level and anything over 40, it was felt that high estrogen levels in men created cardiac issues and blood clots venous thrombosis. In the last three to five years, there's been a lot of studies have come out and information and I've changed the way I I handle things, and I only use the estrogen lower the estrogen levels for three reasons now. One, gynecomastia, two, emotional lability, and three, some men, when they have high estradiol levels, have erectile dysfunction and libido issues. Some men, their erectile dysfunction and libido issues get better. So that's kind of an additional thing. So other than that, then I just, I'll just let it ride. And I do have men and have estradiol levels in 7080, 90, that are perfectly fine. And what we what the other thing we found is that when we were lowering estrogen levels, we were actually turning these guys into post menopausal women. They were getting heart disease, osteoporosis and dementias with lower estrogen levels. And so that's that's the way I've been handling it for the last probably three to five years now, you know, there's a lot of literature in the on Dr Google that tells you opposite. So he's sometimes have to fight that. So, so does that sound reasonable? Dr Nario,

Speaker 2  14:56
or not? No. That is, that is, it's just, yeah, you just have to make sure that you actually have your clinical rationale. It's not just because you want to say that you poo, poo estrogen, just because. So, of course, everybody's asking about literature. What he was saying, he how he kind of deviates the talk because, oh, it's a it's a long discussion. I have to have another set for this so.

Bill Clearfield  15:30
So, in other words, what? In other words, what you're telling me is that, you know, the abstracts I said, it meant nothing. I should have sent them a couple of 100 bucks with it. Yeah, I don't know if

Speaker 2  15:41
he's buying it more. Airtime. It's just again when it's just that the literature falls heavier more on the estrogen excess. Really, what my personal concern is the cardiovascular I mean, how can you look at that right now? I mean, do you have cimts? Do you have clearly scans, or CT angiograms to see these micro angiopathies that are happening when estrogen is actually gluing that high? So we don't know, we just don't know about the problem there is. You'll find out when the patient goes to the hospital, even though they're living perfectly normal now, right? So, yeah, you're throwing ideas that are, of course, this is an integrative medicine conference that everybody should be open about, but there's some rationality with these specific topics, especially when you're talking to scientific medical doctors who are basing their decisions on actual medical literature. So you know, you want to be noticed by the crowd review or esoteric ideas, but you have to make sure that there's something that backs that up.

Bill Clearfield  16:51
Yeah, well, again, well, maybe we can do a night on that, because I do have the literature on it. Actually, I've actually seen it, showed it to the group. So, okay, do you have a tip of the week? Or is that it?

Unknown Speaker  17:05
Yeah, no, that's no. That's just

Bill Clearfield  17:08
a squeeze of the juice. The squeeze of the juice. Okay, well, in that case, we we're going to introduce our our speaker here. So Dr Piper dobner, who's been with us before, is the queen of the microbiome, and she's quite fascinating, and she's going to walk us through certain microbiome patterns that resist intervention. We're going to do it as a question and answer. So if you have questions, either put it in the chat, or raise your hand. We don't have a sort of set agenda, although I'm going to, I have some questions to to get to get started with,

Unknown Speaker  17:51
and we're going to look at things like

Bill Clearfield  17:56
the difference between suppression and restoration, clinical decision points. So Dr dobner is a naturopathic physician. She specializes in the microbiome therapeutics. She works in with the fecal transplant issues, and she treats numerous patients with recurrent, resistant C difficile infection. She understands that gut health depends on the ecosystem of the microbes, the community of microbes, otherwise known as the microbiome, wants us to be healthy and strong. And you know, what we've learned over the last several years is that pretty much every organ has a connection to the GI tract and the microbiome, the these bugs are our friends, not our foes, and this is how Dr Piper views these things in the world of antibiotic resistance and super bugs being created from the overuse of pharmaceutical medications, an ecosystem approach is essential to patient outcomes, and she feels that privilege to sit with patients and hear their stories, and we feel privileged to have her with us. And so, Dr dobner, front and center,

Speaker 5  19:09
hi guys. How you doing this evening? So great to meet you in person at the conference.

Speaker 2  19:15
Yeah, we actually bumped into you in the Callaway booth, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  19:21
So, so we saw you what last last fall, and you were here in Reno, yeah, and we saw you there and and you were on with us, I think at the end of last year also. Mm, hmm. So one question, it might be, what your mother might ask, and that is, how did you get to be so smart, so young.

Speaker 5  19:42
Yeah, my mom has no idea how she birthed me. So we have, you know, that's a what my mother asks daily, or there's a lot of questions there. Um, I was fascinated by nutrition at an early age because I had eczema when I was younger, and basically realized that I could change my diet and change how my skin responded. And then I got really interested in how that worked, and so I was taking elective courses and chemistry to get to biochem so I could understand the biochemistry of nutrition. And that's when my biochem professor was like, you know that you're really weird. And I was like, What do you mean? He's like, people don't take elective courses in chemistry just to take biochem. Like, that's he's like, you're not a chemistry major. And then he talked me into becoming a chemistry major. So it was just this whole long, I don't know, I've kind of just allowed the universe to direct me. And I had a random phone call one day after I graduated from my chemistry degree from a basically an advisor, like an advising counselor, for one of the naturopathic colleges. And he was like, Hey, I saw that you were looking at naturopathic school. And I was like, No, I wasn't, because I have no idea what that is. So he sat and talked to me for like two hours on the phone, and then I was like, Well, that sounds kind of cool. And so then I started looking into naturopathic programs, and then jumped into naturopathy. And then first year of med school was not doing well in microbiology, and so I got a tutor. And when I got my tutor, she's the first person who introduced me to fecal transplant, because I told her I hate the microbiome. And she said, You don't hate the microbiome. She's like, this isn't she's like, you're learning rote memorization, and that's why you hate microbiology. She's like, let me show you what microbiology really is. And then she introduced me to some fecal transplant doctors in Portland, and it's all been history since then, I fell in love with poop and fell in love with ecology and taking care of the whole ecosystem, rather than getting super fine tuned on one bug or one symptom associated with one bug, and looking more at the broader aspect of terrain type medicine and restoration of the Internal microbiome. It's kind of long winded, but it was just kind of, I just kind of let myself be guided. I don't know many of you probably have similar stories.

Speaker 2  22:09
I thought when you were a kid you were just playing with poop. That's how it all started. You thought it was Play Doh or something. No, but you know

Speaker 5  22:16
what's really funny, because my name is Piper. I had two older brothers, and so my mom, if you did know the beautiful woman that she is, she always had really weird nicknames for us growing up, and I was the youngest of three, and so as an infant, she would call me poopy drawers when I had a poopy diaper. And then, because my name's Piper, pooper is a pretty close equivalent, and so she called me pooper or poopy throughout my childhood. And then in third grade, one of my good friends called, because we still had landlines at that time, she called the landline, and my mom answered, and she asked for me, and my mom barely put the phone down and yelled poopy in the house. And then from that day forward, my nickname was poop or pooper, from third grade on, and so everybody I went to elementary school has known me as poop or pooper. And yeah, it's just been kind of, it's just, it's been

Unknown Speaker  23:15
very, you must be very proud.

Speaker 5  23:17
I know she is, I'm sure she is. I mean, I am too. I'm like, Wow, what a serendipitous nickname to have growing up, and then to be elbows deep and shit every weekend. You know, I tell people that all the time I'm elbows deep and poop, and that's how you sell a product, exactly well.

Bill Clearfield  23:37
Or you say something completely opposite of everything we've been taught for the last 25 years. And, you know, yeah, yeah. I do that a lot too. I do that a lot, yeah. So let me ask you this. I'm going to get started here. I'm going to get started here. Let's do it. When we say microbiome, it's going to be very basic. What are you referring to? Yeah. Why should we care?

Speaker 5  24:00
Oh, my God, that's a big question, the microbiome. When I refer to the microbiome, there's a lot of different microbiomes, but when I say microbiome, I'm often referring to the microbiome or the organisms, the living microbial organisms. So it could be bacteria, protozoa, viruses, parasites, all kinds of different organisms that live inside of our intestines. So it's the gut microbiome. When I talk about the microbiome, I'm often talking about the microbes that live within us, but there are many other microbiomes, right? We've got a skin microbiome. We have an oral microbiome, which is the gateway to the digestive tract. So anytime I'm talking with patients, I'm definitely asking them if they brush their teeth, what they're using to brush their teeth with, whether or not they're using mouthwash, because, believe it or not, that's been associated with things like Alzheimer's, because we're killing microbes, we're killing the diversity of the ecosystem inside the oral microbiome. So there's a lot of different things that I'm constantly assessing when I'm talking about the microbiome, but they have microbiomes in our soil, right? We have microbiomes on our desktops. We have microbiomes everywhere. It's just a collection of living microscopic organisms that exist in communities. Would probably be the best way to describe it. And why they're important is because the microbes are ultimately, I tell people that the microbiome so the gut microbiome is the great educator of the immune system. And when we start looking at chronic illness and chronic disease, especially in the United States, there's always an underlying contributor that we can associate back to inflammation, right? So everything has some sort of an underlying inflammatory component, and we don't think about the fact that the immune system is being educated by the microbes within, because they make small molecules. They consume the food that we feed them, and when they consume the food that we feed them. They send these small molecules, basically their poop, by products of their metabolism, into our system, which teaches our immune system how to work and how to function, like I'm seeing in the chat box. It's like Beverly asked how I would handle TMAO, right? And like, TMAO is a great example of TMA is a byproduct of microbial metabolism, and so it's something that you know, if you have a high carnitine or high choline type diet, you're going to over produce TMAO. I handle that by putting additional vegetables inside of the system. So I think about the Allison family, right? So I think about things like garlic. I think about things like onion. There's been some interesting studies about people who are relatively carnivorous in their diets, adding garlic to that steak can actually help reduce the amount of TMO, TMAO that can be produced by the liver, because TMA goes to liver, liver converts it to TMAO. And that's really where cardiovascular disease, a component of cardiovascular disease, comes from. So these microbes are when they're supported by what we consume, by what we eat, by how we take care of them. They support us, and if we don't take care of them, and we are exposed to processed foods which have all kinds of different preservatives in them, which a preservative just kills the microbes so that it can't break down the food, right? And so if you have something in your food that's a preserving agent, and you put it into your digestive tract, you're basically giving yourself a small dose of an antibiotic. And a lot of times, we don't think about that association, but dysbiosis at the end of the day is when we have these different insults coming into the system, whether it's preserving agents, whether it's antibiotics, whether it's our anti psychotic agents. A lot of people don't realize this, either, but if you look in the literature at things like Prozac, or you look in the literature at some of our different common SSRIs, SNRIs, they work as antimicrobial agents, and so people who've been on these medications for 1020, 30 years have a constant deficit inside of their intestines that kills a lot of the commensal microbes. And so my goal and practice is to bring the microbial populations back to restore the microbes that we're meant to have inside of our intestines, and by meant to that's a also a can of worms, because we all have different names of the different bugs inside of us. So if we all took the stool, if every single person on this call decided to submit their stool for stool testing, we would all have vastly different names of organisms inside of our intestines, maybe matching by name by about 10% which is kind of wild to think about, because we're all that different in terms of the microbes names. But what's interesting is that we start to find that in terms of what the microbes make, and in terms of their genetic capabilities, or the functionality of the microbes, the things that they produce, is really where we all start to look the same. So our microbiomes might all look very different, right? And this is my hand graph of what a microbiome chart would look like if you did like whole genome sequencing, right? We'd all have different colors, and we'd all look very different. We have different proportions of different species or different families inside of our intestines. But then when we go a step further with sequencing, and we look at what are they making, then that all starts to basically become uniform. The microbes have a goal to create a signal, and so if we're relatively healthy, we're going to have a relatively similar signal, even though the names of the bugs that got us there are different. How is that for an answer? Did I lose anybody along the way?

Bill Clearfield  29:57
So is it more useful to focus on what the which organisms are present, or what they're doing.

Speaker 5  30:03
I mean, I think it would be way more useful to focus on what they're doing. I think the hardest part about that is our testing. Isn't there. There's a lot of I think what's hard about our microbiome testing? I get asked this a lot. Everyone's like, What's your preferred lab? And I'm like, it's fraught with nuance, right? Um, I think that in terms of testing, there's lots of different labs that can be really valuable, like, I think about things like doctor's data or Genova, those have markers in the stool testing. And to an extent, vibrant America also has some of these markers where it's like, Okay, what does the fiber look like. What is the what are the digestive enzymes look like? What are some of these other inflammatory values? What do they look like? And that can give us something clinically helpful to help support like, Okay, this person's more inflamed inside their intestines. We need to tackle inflammation. But when we start looking at things that are more maybe research oriented, like, I think about Nirvana biome. They're a direct consumer kit where you can do whole genome sequencing, and you get a ton of data, but it's like, cool. Now, you know all the names of all the different bugs inside the intestines, but what are they actually doing? And that's a question that metabolomics is really going to start answering. But I met with one of the heads of NIST, so the National Institute for Science and Technology, standards, standards and technology, National Institute for Standards and Technology, and they were basically saying that the primers. So the thing that we would measure a metabolite against are nowhere near consistent enough at this time for us to be able to reliably look at metabolomic factors, meaning, if we were to take all of our stools and have them analyzed, and we get the different names of the different microbes from those stool analyzes. And then we want to go further and be like, cool. We have all the names now. What are they doing? We can't reliably measure what it is they are doing, but I think that that is the future of microbiome testing. And then once we have that, what do you do with it? Right? There's some interesting I don't know if you guys are familiar with Jonah, but Jonah is a they use Nirvana, bio, Manor, Cosmos ID, who is kind of the back end testing parent company for Nirvana, and now for Jonah, and they're basically the guy who runs it. He's fascinating. He's a PhD in AI, which I was like, but like, AI is taking over the world. So, I mean, here we are, but it's fascinating, because he's been able to utilize his AI background and figure out how to pull different research papers to show that, like these different communities, if they're high, low in between, they have basically collated all of the data and been able to say, if you test this way, you may have a potential to acquire X, Y or Z condition in the future. And these are the research papers on diet that show us how we can shift and adjust that biome, and then you can retest it in three to four months, which I think is kind of wild to think about. But again, it's just the name of the bug. And what do we really know if we don't know what that bug is making? I think gi testing has it has a long way to go, right? Because we've been studying the brain for over 100 years, and the brain is one of the most complex organs we deal with, and we know maybe, and this can be generous, 20% of what's going on with the brain after over 100 years of research, the microbiome, we started looking at in the early 2000s so we're 20 years in. It is just as if not more complex than the brain, and we are in sheer infancy with our understanding of what's actually going on with the microbiome.

Speaker 2  34:10
Well, just to kind of chime in for your Yeah, how the integrative medicine world receives our stool testing really, there's no definition of what is a universal healthy microbiome test result. So when you see all these microbes all lined up, you're looking at like, well, so what is that? Is that healthy? There's really no definition for such, right? That's why sometimes you really want to what you want to rely on your clinical symptoms, your adult other labs as well, and then stability of microbiome still testing is so rapid that even just a single stress that you experience will change that result anytime, anywhere. So really, are you looking at just a window of time in time when you look at his microbiome still right? So nobody really knows, and even the technology of PCR DNA testing. The problem there is, you're testing genetic material, genetic material, even the bacteria is dead, it's going to be tested. So now are you seeing a false positive, meaning a bacteria that's not even causing pathology, that's showing up on your test? So really, I do use it in my clinical practice, the thing there is, I really don't go for it as my first hand approach in assessing these patients, if it's like the last or the final gun that I have, because I cannot solve this case, that's when it comes into the picture. But we have to really admit that the technology that we're looking at here is not as at its best, so, but there are times that it's actually going to be good for us, and sometimes it's going to be coming back biting us again, totally.

Speaker 5  35:49
And like you said, I think you made a really valid point, because our microbiome shifts and changes. If you eat a weird meal, one day, your microbiome is going to be different the next, right? And so unless you're eating something very consistent, regimented, you're not going to have the exact same result from stool to stool. And the other thing that's interesting is you could test the first part of your stool that exits the bowel to the last part of your stool that exits the bowel, and you will see differences in the microbial environment just in a single stool.

Speaker 5  36:22
And so it's, it's, it's very varied, and I think it's information. But I think where I get frustrated with GI testing in general is that I have colleagues who will see a microorganism that's quote, unquote pathogenic. There's no symptom picture clinically, but they have to treat it. And I'm like, no, no, no. Like, it's just information. Like, at the end of the day, it's just information. And if the person is asymptomatic, then great, that's information. Like, maybe you had a pass through organism that came through. I mean, you know, I I do a ton of stool testing, mostly on my stool donor. Like, that's really where the majority of my stool testing is run on my patients. I'll run an organic acid test before I'll run a stool test, and if I need to dive deeper, I'll go into the stool testing, or I'll go into some of the other markers that seem to highlight for me. But I think what's really fascinating is that, you know, I had on one of the donor stool tests that came through, it was an enteropathogenic E coli, which at the end of the day, it's a pass through organism. It takes maybe 14 days at max to pass through the system. So I knew that whatever stool was donated the week before, had to toss it, and then I waited two weeks before I retested to make sure it was clear before I went back and took more stool from the donor. I didn't do anything to treat the donor. I did nothing other than continue to eat your sauerkraut, continue to take care of yourself. He had one day where he had loose stool. Other than that, it wouldn't have even shown up for him symptomatically. And so we waited, we retested. Everything came back clear two weeks later, literally, three weeks three months later, I had a colleague send me still results of a similar E coli. And I was like, she was like, What do I need to do? Like, which type of antibiotic should I use? Should I go into biocidin? Like, what should I do? And I was like, is he symptomatic? And she said, No. And I was like, I wouldn't even treat it, even if he was symptomatic, let it pass through, because oftentimes diarrhea is a discharge, and the discharge is what's getting it out of the system anyways. And so I don't know that I would want to stop or slow that, and I don't necessarily think that we always need to attack and I think that oftentimes our education leads us to believe that we need to do something. And so if we're going to order a lab, that lab is going to change how we're going to treat the person. I rarely have a stool test where it's going to change my treatment plan. It's for me. It's more like research and information. I want to know what the microbiome looks like. I want to see the diversity score. Because if I can have a patient who's just started with me, and I can do a diversity test and see where do you lie in the spectrum of diversity, like alpha diversity, beta diversity, what does it look like? How many, how many microorganisms do you have inside of your intestines that are different from one another? And then from there, after I do diet protocols with them, maybe we do some Hellman thick therapy. Maybe they do fecal transplant therapy six months later, I want to retest that biome and show like, cool diversity went up. That's awesome, because when we look at the literature broadly, when we're looking at chronic disease, there was a paper that was published, I want to say it was in the mid 2010s so like 2015 ish, where they were talking about things like multiple sclerosis or Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis or name basically any of the autoimmune conditions, and what they found, consistent across the board, when they were assessing gut microbiome, was low microbial diversity. So in my brain, I'm like, well, then we just need to increase microbial diversity and get more bugs inside of the system. And when we think about things like dysbiosis, which, you know, this could be controversial, and I'm not entirely I'm not entirely sure how you guys feel about this, but when I think about things like SIBO or sifo, what I think is really the bigger picture there is dysbiosis. So I rarely get caught up in a SIBO diagnosis or a sifo diagnosis. I'm looking at it more as you've lost so much of the microbial balance in the community, because there are so few microbes inside of that system now that that is what allows other microorganisms to overgrow, and so then my goal is to bring in competition, and that competition is bringing back in the commensals. It's bringing back in the other micro microorganisms who are going to compete for nutrients, who are going to compete for home space inside of the intestine, and who are going to be able to give us that diverse array of signaling opportunity that we lose when we get into a dysbiotic state? So you have so much of one organism, your immune system is only getting limited signal from that overgrowth of that organism. And then that's when we start to see the immune collapse, right? That's where we start to see mass inflammation. Is because we don't have the microorganisms anymore to teach the immune system how to function and how to function well.

Speaker 2  41:29
So just to clarify, it's for our audience. So when Piper mentions about the microbiome, we're always kind of like stuck with idea that it's only bacteria. So the microbiome has different players. So yeast, fungi, viruses, protozoa, and probably, I'm sure, you raised some antennas and curiosity is here you mentioned about helminths. So these are our family of happy people or organisms in our gut. So just to make sure that we want to deviate away from that, I thought it was only bacteria thought so there's a lot of players here.

Speaker 5  42:03
Yeah, so many different players. And I love that you brought that up, because I do work with helmets in my medical practice, and I think they're some of the coolest microorganisms, and they're some of the most hated, which is so interesting to me. I mean, if you log into Tiktok, which I say that I don't have a Tiktok, but I hear it from a lot of my patients who are like, Well, I'm watching this influencer on Tiktok who told me to kill all the parasites inside of my intestines. And it doesn't mean that there aren't bad parasites. There absolutely are, right? There are parasites that don't belong inside of our intestines. They get there, absolutely, we should be eradicating some of those parasites. However, I've also seen in my practice, you know, I think blastocyst Hominis is one of the ones that is so fascinating to me, because if you start to dive into the literature on Blasto, there's two different subtypes. I believe it's subtype four and subtype seven, that are actually anti inflammatory parasites, and so the small molecules that they secrete into the system are actually telling our immune system how to chill out. And what's interesting is I had a patient, this is probably five or six years ago now, who came to me because he had this Blasto infection, and his provider hopped on the call with me, and she's like, we've been attacking Blasto. He's been on antiparasitic. We've been doing this for two, three years, and nothing's changing, like nothing, nothing is killing the Blasto in his system. And I'm just like, okay, and then I took a full history up for him, right? It's just like, that's information for me. Give me your history. And at the end of our call, it became very clear to me that it wasn't a parasite issue. He had had mold exposure and pretty serious mold illness. Most of his symptoms looked more like mold than they did parasite. But his provider had gotten so stuck on the parasite because they found it in testing, and that's what they needed to kill. And so I basically said, let's stop trying to kill the parasite, and let's go towards maybe some binding protocols. Let's go go towards some bile movement from the liver. Let's see if what we can get moving, and just leave the Blasto alone, like, let's try that for a few months for the first time in this guy's two to three year journey with his provider, he actually started to see shifts and changes in his clinical symptom picture, because we were actually approaching the right thing that needed to be approached, instead of being like we found this on a stool test, therefore we need to attack it. And it was really interesting to me, because within, I'd say within nine nine months, because, you know, those mold patients are not quick, quick one and dones there. They usually take some time. But within nine, nine months, he was no longer complaining about constipation. He was no longer complaining about skin rashing, all of the stuff that they were attributing to the parasite was not a Blasto problem. It was a mold problem. And so I do think too sometimes, when we get so caught up on it must be this organism, we lose the bigger picture. And so helminthic therapy, you know, I work with a species called Nicator americanus. Common Name is human hookworm. I always like to emphasize it's human hookworm like meant to be inside of the human intestine. And what's fascinating is, when you dive into the literature on Decatur, they've actually started studying it as a potential to keep people in drug free remission for things like ulcerative colitis. I disagree with their study designs, and I think that's one of the reasons they don't see the outcomes that I've seen in my practice. Is it a miracle cure for anybody with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's absolutely not like absolutely not. There's nothing like that that exists in this world. However, when I'm dealing with patients who have autoimmune conditions, the first thing I think about is, what can I add to your intestine? What can I add to your ecosystem? What can I do to build your biome in a way that's going to help support your immune system functioning more appropriately? And when they look at indicator and they do blood analysis to see what's happening when these microbes get into the intestine, they actually see an increase in T regulatory cell and this is where I always bring up my teeter totter for my patients. And that if we oversimplify, like stupidly oversimplify, the immune system, we have a th one response and we have a th two response. And otherwise, our immune system is actually meant to be relatively balanced, so that it can spike when it needs to and come back down, and Spike when it needs to and come back down. What T reg does is it helps bring this teeter totter back to level, while also keeping it pliable, so that it can still continue to move. Steroids will turn the teeter totter off. Right? It can't move anymore. So that's how they theoretically function, but with people who have autoimmunity, and again, this is an oversimplification, because we're not talking about th 17, but it could, you know, add another angle to the teeter totter. But if we have a th one responder or an autoimmune patient, and we bring in a microorganism that secretes T regulatory cell first, when it starts to infect, it actually stimulates a th two response, right? Because th two is really what attacks our parasites. Suddenly, people who pursue this therapy will oftentimes tell me that they felt a bump or they felt like their symptoms almost went away magically when they first started the worms. Once the worms get into the intestines and they start secreting their spit, the spit is actually what stimulates the immune system. So They've analyzed the spit of Nicator americanus, and it has just under 200

Speaker 5  47:57
unique peptides in the spit that's communicating with the immune system. That's wild to me, like right now, and I'm sure you saw this, Melvin, when you were at the a forum conference. But how many peptide companies are on the market now? Right? Everyone's pushing peptides, peptides, peptides, peptides. And I'm like, All right, you could choose one and maybe shut down your GI tract and go to the hospital. Not like that's going to happen to everybody on GLP one, but it has happened. There are many reports of that. Or you could choose a microorganism that secretes just under 200 and take it more like an ecosystem approach. And so it kind of goes back to my ecosystem philosophy that I practice with and that I'm constantly looking for ways to build the biome. I don't want to kill it. I want to restore it. And I think to one of the things that's really fascinating for me is I use, I use sauerkraut prescriptively in my practice all the time, because Stanford did a study on increased fiber intake versus increased ferment intake. And when people were increasing the number of fermented vegetables they had, they actually saw a better response to increased microbial diversity when people were consuming fermented foods versus when they're trying to increase their fibers, which I thought was really fascinating. And then when you look into the regenerative agriculture space, this was really fascinating to me too, because I went to a conference last year where they allowed farmers and doctors to get on stage together, which I was like, sign me up for this. Like, any day. This is, like, my favorite kind of conference on the planet. But what was fascinating is, when they were talking to the regenerative farmers, one of the things that they do is they use sauerkraut juice when they come into a conventional farm and they want to regenerate and restore it, and they basically pour sauerkraut juice for two years to eradicate the glyphosate residues and restore diversity in The soil of the farm that they're trying to bring back. And that, to me, is like, I've been using sauerkraut my patients for years. And then to think about the broader picture, where they can, you know, do soil assessment and soil analysis, I was like, maybe that's part of the picture too. Is that they're actually when we can get patients to tolerate ferments, which I know many of you are probably like, my patient can't do it for patient can't do a ferment right now. And I understand that. I have many patients like that, believe me, I get the leftovers from the SIBO clinics who've been through their sixth, seventh, eighth round of Rifaximin, and they want to try something different. It's a low and slow approach. But what I really appreciate is that there are ways we can bring these microbes back, and there are ways we can help support restoration of the internal microbiome. And I know that kind of went all over the place, but one of the things that I really love, too about the farmers is they love finding worms in their soil, and so I'm not a hater on worms. I think that sometimes that actually might be part of the missing component for us in medicine when we're working with patients, especially patients who have severe immune dysregulation.

Bill Clearfield  51:16
Okay, here's a question for you, what toothpaste do you recommend to protect the microbiome?

Speaker 5  51:22
Love that question. Um, I like the Nano hydroxy appetite toothpaste that are coming out on the market. What is my favorite? I don't know yet. I often will try different brands. I started with Boca Boka. I really like the texture of the toothpaste. What's interesting about the hydroxy appetites is that you don't rinse after you brush. And so that was a I had to really retrain my brain on that one, because I'm so used to like brush, rinse, spit, you know. But you don't do that because you're basically putting the supplement, the mineral, onto the surface of the teeth, and you want your teeth to be exposed to it for as long as they can be. So you brush your teeth and wait 10 to 15 minutes before you even drink water. So I really like those types of toothpaste. I like the higher percentage ones. So there are higher percentage ones than boca. I haven't tried as many of them as I want to because I got on a subscription for Boca. So I gotta wait until I run out of those ones, and then I'm going to try more. But I also tried fig, F, y, g, g, fig is not fig. What I don't like about fig is it's a little too sweet for me. I think they sweeten it with xylitol. I just like my my oral cavity is pretty sensitive to sweets in general. So my teeth didn't really like the sweetness, even though it was a like, you know, alcohol, sugar. My teeth were not very excited about the fig product. But I really like the guy who created the brand. I'm gonna see if I can find his name. He has a newsletter all about dentistry and how to take care of your teeth and how to take care of your oral health. And like, I freaking love this guy. His newsletter is so fabulous. I don't know if he's listed on their page or not. I think he was a founder for the fig company. Yeah, he's on the okay Mark. I'm gonna butcher his last name so I'm sorry. Burhan, b, u, r, H, E, N, N, E, I can put it in the chat box. His newsletter is super insightful, just for oral health, everything. I think fig is fig is great. I just don't personally like how sweet it is. I think Boca has more of like the pasty texture to it that I really like, without the extra sweetness. But basically the hydroxy appetite type toothpaste are the ones I go for.

Bill Clearfield  53:59
Okay, any techniques for addressing high urine oxalates,

Speaker 5  54:07
restore the biome, because there's oxalate consumers in the biome. And I honestly think one of the things with oxalates is, I think one of the reasons that we are seeing high oxalates is because we are killing the oxalate consumers in the biome. And so I think it goes back to, how can we restore? How can we replenish? How can we get those microbes back into the system? And I mean, this is really where Sonic fusion toothbrush, sorry, I just got into the chat box. I need to step away from it because it's so I'm like, Oh, look at that cool comment. But I think with oxalates in general, I really think we're we are killing our oxalate consumers. And so it comes back down to we've lost that gene that the microbiome had at one point in time that would consume excess oxalates. You can do a low oxalate diet. But I think the hard part about that, and what I see in my practice, is that once I start getting patients,

Speaker 5  55:10
I guess this is a this is my bias of the patient population I get. So oftentimes I will have patients come to me already diagnosed with high oxalates, already diagnosed with something like SIBO, already diagnosed with X, Y or Z, and they're on crazy restrictive diets, like they have six to 10 safe foods that they're willing to eat or can consume. And my big goal is to help diversify their diet and bring joy back into their lives, because they become so restricted and so strict about what they're eating that they basically feel like they can't eat anything. And I think that's very true for them. On some level. It bombs their gut if they start to bring in new foods too quickly, too fast. And so oftentimes I'll have them, like when I was talking about sauerkraut, a lot of people can't tolerate it. I'll have them get sauerkraut and just start with like, an eighth of a teaspoon of the sauerkraut juice. Don't consume any of the fiber, just get the juice into your system and see if your body can tolerate that. If it can, great, go to a quarter of a teaspoon, see if you can tolerate that. In the meantime, each week, try one new food on a new food day. So maybe it's a Saturday or a Sunday, maybe it's a Monday, but that day you're going to you're going to trial a new food, and you're going to give yourself four to five days to see did your body respond negatively? Because we've got the delayed hypersensitivity reaction that comes with new foods. And so I want them to know, is this a good food, or is it a not so great food? For right now, I never want to call them bad foods. Because I think that oftentimes, a lot of these individuals come in with orthorexia. They're coming in with basically a condition because they've tried so hard to solve their GI problem by cutting out all of the food, and then they're terrified of their food. And so I really feel like I work with that a lot more in my practice than than I would like to see but I also think a big component of it is glyphosate. And I think it's not just glyphosate. I think it's pesticides and herbicides across the board. I think that we are obliterating our microbiome. Our microbes are what break down our food. What's so interesting is like, and this is where I think fecal transplants, just like the coolest educator on the planet when it comes to the microbiome, because we know nothing, and then we like, add in a whole ecosystem to germ free mice, and it's like, holy cow, we get to see a major shift in what's happening inside of the intestines and in mouse trials. What's so fascinating is they can create what are called Gnotobiotic mice. So these are mice that are germ free, basically, quote, unquote, sterile. And then what they'll do is they'll take stool from a conventionally raised mouse or a wild type mouse who has a standard mice microbiome, and they'll give that food because they're copper phasic. So basically, they just put the poop of the wild type mice into the cage of the mice who are notobiotic, and they consume the stool, and what they find is that these mice, and like mice, have, you know, a two to three year shelf life. I mean, that's a horrible way to talk about mice. Thank you so much, mice for all the work you do for us and medical literature and research. But what's fascinating is, when they bring in this new microbiome six seven weeks later, so six or seven weeks after they've had exposure to the new microbiome, after they've basically had a fecal transplant, they can go in and assess what the intestines are doing. So prior to that. You know, if they've got a control group who stays Gnotobiotic, they stay germ free, six, eight weeks later, what's interesting is that the intestines, the mucus layer of the intestines, swap, meaning a normal intestine, small intestine to large intestine. Small Intestine has a much more rapid sloughing off of the mucus layer, so we have mucus that lines our intestines all the way through, but in the small intestine, where we're exposed to food, particulate that just came through the stomach, we maybe have the first exposure to a microorganism that survived the stomach, the mucus will bind that and send it into the large intestine, right? And then the microbes there can consume parts of it, or it can flush out. But when we have a germ or sorry, and in the large intestine, that mucus layer, it basically stays thicker where it's not supposed to be, sloughing off, it's more of a barrier, a protective barrier. It can still be penetrated by the small molecules that the microbes make. Right? So when we think about B 12, when you think about k2 when we think about all the short chain fatty acids, or the tryptophan precursors and the indoles, or name all the different things that these microbes make, they're small chemical signals that can pass through the mucous membrane. But other than that, that mucus membrane is not letting the actual microorganism pass through and enter into your intestine or enter into your system systemically, right? But when they're germ free, when the mice are germ free, that mucus layer swaps, so the small intestine becomes a super thick mucosal layer that does not slough off, mostly because the intestinal tissue itself is so irritated that the mucus is trying to create a protective layer. But what that does is it sends more things down into the large intestine, where now the large intestine becomes more of a shedding source with fecal transplant, when they gave these germ free mice fecal transplant within six weeks. So it shows you fecal transplant doesn't work overnight for some of these bigger conditions, right? If we're talking C diff, you can absolutely clear C diff, 2448, hours. Like it is a pretty easy one and done. I don't want to say that too confidently, because there are a handful of patients who need multiple re doses of fecal transplant purely because they have really virulent C Diff strains. But what's interesting is that when we start thinking about fecal transplant outside of the C Diff world, and we start thinking about it in terms of more of these chronic, complex conditions, or GI conditions, it just goes to show you that fecal transplant as that new ecosystem comes in, it takes it time to establish itself and to basically be able to continually replenish that system. And so what they see is that in the germ free mice there, there's that thicker small intestine layer, and the thinner sloughing off in the large intestine, within six weeks, that swaps back to normal, where the small intestine has that normal sloughing off. It catches all the things that need to go. We also have a thinner mucus layer so we can absorb more of the nutrients from the food, and then the large intestine regains its thick mucus layer. I think that's the coolest thing ever. Personally, I don't know about you guys,

Bill Clearfield  1:02:00
funny what you would find, quote, unquote cool.

Speaker 5  1:02:04
So cool I would, I would actually beg to say, shit, one

Bill Clearfield  1:02:08
of our, one of our, one of our guests, visitors, is from Austria, which is the middle of the night there, oh my gosh. And she is asking if there are fecal transplant doctors in Austria, if you know it at all,

Speaker 5  1:02:23
I don't know any fecal transplant doctors in Austria. I mean, I would be happy to move to Austria and check it out. I mean, that's where Paracelsus came from.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:32
Austria. There you go, Theresa. Okay, one of the

Speaker 2  1:02:38
things that just to chime in with Piper here. So I have patients, they're so hyped up about oxalates, so they're always trying to focus on low oxalate food. But you're right about this point that there is a specific bacteria, it's called oxalobacter, that actually is responsible for the removal of oxalates in what you eat. So let's say you are doing that oxalate free diet, right? If you're not fixing this dysbiosis and that bacteria is not present there, then the recirculation of oxalates will still be happening. So that's why focusing on specific bacteria, healthy bacteria, promoting it through, as you said, sauerkraut, even fiber. I think that would be one of the keys that would be part of that, that low oxalate state that people want to maintain,

Speaker 5  1:03:35
agreed. Well, the other thing to think about, and this is where the microbiome gets so much more exciting and fun. I actually always pull different things off of my desk. So I get to show you this fun little favor a friend gave to me pull out. You would think it's so it's a little mini stool inside of a container. Oh, it's stool like, and it's a stool sample. That funny. I think it's great. So anyways, when I think about the microbiome and microbes, yes, there's a particular oxalate eating microbe. However, this is where I throw caution to people who get too hung up on one particular microbe, because just because the oxalobacter has been identified as the oxalate consuming microbe. Does not mean there are not other microbes with that same genetic capability. And one of the reasons that I say that is because if we go back to like basic bio biology, basic microbiology, there's a way for microorganisms to share their genetic capabilities with one another, called horizontal gene transfer, right? So if this is, you know, a microbe, I always put them in my hand like this, because very rarely are our microbes free, floating inside of our intestines. Majority of the time they exist in community together, so they exist in biofilms, and that's another topic we can kind of traverse, but ultimately, if the community so we've got microbes on the outside of this community who are kind of surveying like, what's going on out there. And if this microbe comes through the system, maybe it's an oxalobacter, and maybe it has the oxalate degrading gene, and it comes through, and this goes, Oh, we don't have that in our environment. They can line up side by side, and this microbe can pass its genetic material to this microbe and still pass through the environment. So even though oxalobacter might not show up on a stool test, for some of us, we could still be consuming the oxalates, and this is really where metabolomics, and being able to test for that in the future will be super fascinating, right? Because then we can actually see, just because maybe oxalobacter themself isn't showing up in the stool, maybe we actually still have the genetic capability in the system. But then, just because you have the gene, is the gene turned on? That's the next question, right? So then we can check the genetics and see, do we have the gene available? And if we have the gene available, are we actively producing the metabolite, or the small molecule that's capable of capturing and degrading the oxalate, right? Like, that's where it just gets to me. I'm like, blow my mind. That is. So it's just, like, so incredibly fascinating to me. And I think it's where I get really frustrated when I think about, like, all the hype around acromancy, or right now, right? Because everyone, I mean, I get patients all the time who are, like, I had a stool test run, and I have no acromancia, and I'm like, cool, but you have other bugs. And like, those other bugs are really important too. And there's other bugs in the system that, like, could be doing the same thing that akromania could be doing, as you know, consuming the mucus layer where needed, and being able to move, move and utilize the mucus layer in different ways, and it could also be helping contribute to the weight loss claims around acromancy, right? So I have a really hard time getting too caught up on one microbe, because so many of our microbes are sharing. They're constantly in communication and working together with one another to help support us. And really it's about bringing in more right? Like, how do we bring in more microbes, right?

Speaker 2  1:07:31
You have to remember that oxalate it's oxalate theory actually runs. I I have, I have seen this more in patients who are they have underlying inflammation. They're blaming the food that they're eating. And you have to remember, oxalate foods are really healthy and healthy for the microbiome too. But if you look at the underlying history of these patients, diabetes, right, hypercholesterolemia, high, high hscrps, these are things that you really want to fix when you're talking about what aggravates you to form oxalates, because oxalates Are you have to remember they are also protective mechanisms of our systems and how it will not damage the internal organs. So that's why just focusing on avoiding oxalates without you looking at the real issue, right, looking at the bigger problem, and by not addressing that, is really not doing yourself justice Totally.

Speaker 5  1:08:23
I mean, yeah, I mean, I have patients who are terrified to take an herbal formula that I want to give them, because they're like, Oh, is it high in oxalates? And I'm like, really, like, these are, these are medicinal herbs. I don't it's, it's kind of wild to me. And people have a lot of fear. Again, it's fear around food. And I think one of the bigger things, and this is more on the, you know, energetic level, and I think about it too in the realm of homeopathy, because I use homeopathy with all my patients, but it's a need to control and or to be a perfectionist in their world where they maybe, in their childhood didn't have control in one capacity or another, and so they're trying to control, like, Uber control their environment, because it's the one thing that they can control in their life. And so I oftentimes do see that pattern, especially with some of these really food fearful patients. It's like, okay, what? Like, what would happen if you just ate, like, what would happen? You know, oftentimes, in their six or seven or eight safe foods that they have, they're still blowing up, they're still bloated, they're still cramping. So to me, I'm like, why not try and enjoy it and and reduce the fear around food? Because if your nervous system is in sympathetic overdrive, and you're trying to eat and consume, you're not going to react to anything very well. So it's a, it's a much broader, bigger picture, picture for me, for sure,

Bill Clearfield  1:09:57
there's a question about mold. Is that outside of our territory here?

Unknown Speaker  1:10:01
No, I think molds. How do you treat it?

Unknown Speaker  1:10:05
How do I treat mold?

Unknown Speaker  1:10:06
Yeah, how do you test it? How do you treat it?

Speaker 5  1:10:09
How do you treat it? Um, Dr Jill. Christa is one of my dear friends. I don't know if you guys know dr Jill. She's phenomenal. She actually just created a supplement company in the last maybe three to five years that has a lot of really great mycotoxin type products. I just recently did an organic acid test and had, like, I will tell you, I had high oxalates on my organic acid test. I eat oxalate containing foods, so I just think that that's something just to point out, right? I also, I know your mother,

Speaker 3  1:10:46
your mother would be appalled. You are done. I know, I don't even know. I don't even think we can, we can't finish this. Now, you told us that that's it. I know we're done, right?

Speaker 5  1:10:59
But what's interesting is, like, I was like, okay, you know, ultimately, the way that I look at it is mold is mold is multifaceted. So Jill, Krista is the person that I'm talking about. And Jill, what's fascinating about her is she gets very into the nitty gritty of, like, who are the different mold species there? How to particularly bind them, how to go low and slow with binding them. I think one of the biggest issues with mold is that people just dive in. They're like, oh, we need, you know, bile movers. We need to make sure that we're binding everything. And we just need to, we need to get this out of the system. That's great. But I would say most of the mold people moldy. I always kind of call them my moldy patients. They're usually pretty constipated, and you're not getting any mold out of a constipated system. Like constipation is probably one of the biggest issues with mold. And so oftentimes, what I'll do, especially when I'm dealing with constipation, which I don't know that I've had a mold patient who isn't constipated. I'd have to really rack my memory for that one, but I'll honestly have them start eating beets to start. I mean, let's see if we can get things moving. One, beets are great bile movers, so they're going to be able to stimulate bile flow. But two, they're also great at helping keep the GI tract regular. So I'll pop in some beats. I will tell you I have a really cool Crohn's patient story. This young man came into my practice when he was 15. He had been on all the different biologics, so Remicade, Humira, he had been on stellara. And when he came to me, he was in his first year and a half of antibio, still with blood, still with constipation, and I had his mom do those mold agar plates. Are you guys familiar with those are relatively inexpensive. You can, just like, put them in your house and see if mold grows. And they had mold growth basically everywhere. But she was a single mom with three kids on a single income, and asking them to get out of the mold, which is generally the first thing we do, right? Like, if it's an environmental issue, you got to get out of the environment. I think that's one of the number one rules in environmental medicine. But they couldn't do that, and he had been a Crohn's patient since he was 12, so he'd had Crohn's for three years, and just was not responding to his biologic therapies. I worked with them probably for about eight months, just trying to see if we could get his stool moving. So again, this is where I'm adding in things like, beat can we get him to poop? Like, can we get stool to pass relatively regularly through a system? I high dosed vitamin C, like nobody's business. So two bowel tolerance is how we can use unbuffered vitamin C as a way to see if we can move the bowels. A lot of times people just hit magnesium super hard. I'm not necessarily opposed to that, but I do think there is a limit to what magnesium can do, and I do think that we often underestimate the importance of vitamin C on so many levels, not just as a bowel mover, but also a support for the immune system. And what's fascinating about high dosing Vitamin C is that you can high dose it to bowel tolerance. Some people can take 25 grams a day like it's insane, how much people can do, but you're basically replenishing their antioxidant stores, which is a rant for another day, but we did that, and then at about the eight month mark, I told her that I was really interested in pursuing Hellman thick therapy with him, he was starting to have more bowel movements. I knew I wasn't going to get him out of mold. I knew that if we started a binding protocol, like, what's binding going to do, other than open up the stores for more mold to enter, because he still lives in mold. But what I wanted to do was see if we could basically fight the microbe with microbes, right? Because mycotoxins come from mold, which are basically excreting these spores that can come into our system. Those are the mycotoxins that our bodies are trying to deal with. I think one of the reasons we have so many mold issues is because we've sealed off our inner world. We've cleaned our inner world so much we don't have competition anymore for the microbes that are around us. So I wanted to create more competition inside of his intestines, and we did helminthic therapy, and within a year, and I think two or three months, so maybe a year and a quarter, we were able to put him into clinical remission from his Crohn's while living in a mold environment. Using vitamin C beads and helminthic therapy, which I think was pretty freaking cool, we increased the diversity of intestines, which I think was really helpful. And I also really believe that when we can stimulate that T regulatory response, we can calm the immune response that comes as a byproduct of mold. So that was just like one really fun side story that happened with him and I see him now. He's 19 now, when I first met this kid

Speaker 5  1:16:18
would barely talk to me, would barely form a full sentence. Was very shy, doing very poorly in school. His mom was worried he was going to fail out of his I think he was in his freshman year of school, and she was just concerned, like he was not doing well. He had no social circle, no friends, and now, when we hop on calls to check in, his mom's like, I can't get him to sit down because he's at the gym getting all buff, and he's got a girlfriend, and he's hanging out with his friends. He's going out and doing all these different things, like he totally changed as a human, just being able to poop again, not have blood or cramping every day of his life, and get back on track. And he still lives in the moldy home they were never able to move his mom, still a single mom, supporting three boys. So I didn't do a binder, vitamin C then a binder. I did not do a binder with him because he was constipated. And a lot of times, if you add in a binder, you're going to make constipation much worse. So I didn't do that, but if you talk to Jill Christa, she's been using more of a gentle binder. I think she has a product called gentle bind. That's a okra lemon grass, or lemon balm. Sorry, okra lemon balm and something else. There's a third ingredient in there, but it's probably the most gentle of the binders on the market right now. So if you do have people who are constipated and you do want to try and bind, what I would say is, please don't bind. If they're constipated, get them moving first and then start gentle, low and slow with a binder.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:00
Does that help? Lemon balm will lower thyroid levels, by the way, it can before. What do you do when the patient is histamine intolerant with a low Dao, I mean, oxidase?

Speaker 5  1:18:14
You guys are probably going to think I'm crazy, but my MCAS, histamine intolerant patients, I do really, really low dose helminthic therapy, because I want to help, again, support the microbiome, bring back microbial diversity, and help support that T regulatory teeter totter effect, right? So instead of having a hyper histamine response for these people, I'm usually trying again to help stimulate the microbiome. When and where I can

Bill Clearfield  1:18:51
you're growing helmets in your basement, and where do you get them?

Speaker 5  1:18:55
Is this recorded? We'll talk about that on a different we'll talk about that somewhere else.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:01
Okay, yeah, there's no Dr halasa and the CMEs are out, so I don't know. I haven't heard from them in months, so I don't know what happened to them. So, yeah, so we can, you can say anything you want.

Speaker 5  1:19:14
My God, I love that. But does this go out publicly, or is it just to this?

Bill Clearfield  1:19:18
Well, it depends. You know, we put it on our website, and sometimes it gets gets to YouTube, unless somebody says something that YouTube doesn't like. But if you don't want to answer that, that's fine.

Speaker 5  1:19:29
Just reach out to me. You guys can reach out to me anytime my medical clinic is biome. You can find me at biohm, basics.com, so biome hyphen, basics.com, biome dash, basics, I had to say hyphen. I said hyphen to a kid on the phone, and he was like, What is a Oh, man. How do I explain this? It's the line in the middle of the line.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:54
No, I guess. What about what's your opinion on green frankincense to support gut health.

Speaker 5  1:20:01
I haven't used green frankincense to support gut health, so I don't have a, I don't have a strong opinion

Speaker 3  1:20:07
on that. Okay, that's from our that's from our Austrian friend. So different there. Yeah, is it a

Unknown Speaker  1:20:15
as an essential oil, or is it as an herb?

Speaker 3  1:20:18
I don't know. It's Theresa. You're still here. You know, it's four o'clock in the morning there. So, dear Lord,

Speaker 5  1:20:23
what a dedicated, dedicated attendee of the chat.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:28
Sauerkraut alone is enough. Where does it? Have to have different other vegetables?

Speaker 5  1:20:34
No to chew on the green one? I haven't done it. Theresa, I'm sorry. I don't know. Ultimately, what the study said was ferments in general, right? So ferments can be anything from kombucha to sauerkraut to kimchi to yogurt, if people can tolerate dairy. I think, I think, honestly, raw yogurts are really great way to help bring back the biome, and I think it's one that a lot of people actually really enjoy, um, I make my donor, my sweet little 10 year old still donor, eat sauerkraut daily, um, and or yogurt so he can have sauerkraut, yogurt, kimchi. Um, his parents always have something in the fridge for him to take a bite of, just so that I can keep his diversity nice and high. The study was out of Stanford University. I want to say it was in the early 20, 2020s let me see Stanford. I'll look it up and link it in the fermented foods. It's a great study. Highly recommend looking at it. They did it for 10 weeks, and they were actually able to show reductions in inflammation and increases in diversity for people who are consuming here's a news article on it, and then the news article, you can find the you can find the actual paper, but I use that all the time. I mean, there's also, you know, for people who can't tolerate ferments. That's why we have probiotics. Like it's one of the reasons, if you look at some of the probiotic formulations, which I have to do a lot when I'm looking at probiotic formulations, oftentimes it's to try and mimic a fermented food. So if you can't get somebody to eat a fermented food, then I think a slightly inferior choice, but still good choice, is to try that, try to rotate them through different probiotics. I will say I'm not a fan of staying on one probiotic for life. I think that rotation and getting different microbial species and getting different mixtures into the gut is very important, because I don't want to overload the gut with, you know, four different microbes that are in this one product. I'll try it, you know, like even going back to the histamine question, when I think about things like the Bifidobacterium species, they're generally less histamine producing. What we saw with things like covid and Long Haul covid, and people who are getting sick with covid, really severe cases, they had basically an absence of Bifidobacterium in their intestines. Bifidobacterium can also be really, really helpful in in supporting people who have more histamine type reactions, because it's less of a histamine producing microorganism, lactobacillus, on the other time, other hand, can sometimes be histamine inducing. And so I often think about that when I think about how to support the biome, like, if people cannot tolerate fermented foods, which, again, like I said, I start low and slow with these people. But if, even if that's like, no way exploded me, it blew me up. Then I'll go, I will go as far back to a probiotic. And, you know, I mean, I work for SFI health, so just to like, be very transparent there, but there's one of their probiotics that I really like is their lacto prime, plus, because it has no prebiotic in it, I think it's one of the only ones in the line that does not have a prebiotic fiber, but it's got 11 or 12 different species in it, so you get a nice solid mixture of microorganisms without that potential bloating prebiotic involved as well. Because then, you know, a lot of the other

Speaker 5  1:24:15
probiotics in the line have something like inulin from chicory root, which is great if you want to have a prebiotic, and if people don't respond to it, but if people have adverse side effects with it with inulin, then basically you're looking at the lactopine Plus, or the therabiotic symbiotic. So, I mean, I think a lot about, how can I slowly bring somebody's microbiome back without blowing them up. Because, like, when I was very young in my practice, I'll just like, eat all these different things and bring your fiber in and do all this and just like, eat a regular meal. And I realized very quickly that I had very upset patients, because they were basically being annihilated from the inside. And so as I started to continue to work through and also me myself, and I right, like, I had food poisoning two summers ago, which I used to I used to be so into the bug theory, where I was like, I don't even know if pathogens exist, because, like, I just think that it's all about having communities. And then I got slammed with food poisoning, and I was like, no pathogens legit exist. They exist, and they are alive and well in this world, and they can take you out, but when they take you out, you have to rebuild back your biome. And so I got to take on my own philosophy and do it myself, which was also really beautiful. How's that for a long winded answer?

Bill Clearfield  1:25:43
There's, course, the inevitable dementia, Alzheimer's disease, in the microbiome,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:48
yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I think about,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:53
are there distinct patterns, and

Speaker 5  1:25:56
definitely with Parkinson's? What's interesting about Parkinson's and what they've been looking at with the Parkinson's research, and this is something I've been thinking about a lot lately, because I've had a handful more Parkinson's patients in my practice recently. What we know in the literature is that Parkinson's is generally preceded by about 20 years of constipation. And I, you know, I work with stool all the time, and generally, my donor stool, Bristol four, looks beautiful, long snake like stools like you gotta love it. Every once in a while, though, I'll get a submission that is maybe like a Bristol two, three, right? So it's not quite something that I would accept for donation just because it doesn't meet my criteria, but I have processed those before just to see what's like. What does that look like? You know, when you get a harder stool, what does it look like on the other end of processing? And what I mean by processing is I do a double centrifugation process to basically filter the stool. Yes, are you raising your hand? No, stretching. Did a long day. Sorry. But what's really interesting is that, you know, when I take that stool and I process it all, you know, my initial spin cycle, I've got 50 mil conical tubes, right? So they have a little pointed tip at the bottom. They're 50 mils in total. I blend the stool in distilled water, and then from there, pour my, you know, poop smoothie into these tubes. And then I run my first centrifugation cycle to compact out the fiber pellet when I have somebody who is when I have a constipated stool, just because sometimes I want to know, right, like, I'm just kind of curious, that fiber will take up about half of the tube, where, on a normal Bristol for it's going to be maybe a quarter of the tube. So immediately we have a mass. We have a larger amount of mass in the stool, which is just interesting to me. But then I take the liquid from that first spin cycle, and I pour the liquid, or the supernatant, into a second clean, sterile tube. And then from there, I'll rerun the spin cycle at a much higher speed for a longer period of time to compact the microbial pellet. And when I do that with a normal Bristol four stool, I can get, like a five mil microbial pellet, like I can get basically the whole tip of that 50 mil conical is just like juicy microbial goodness. And that's very exciting for me. If those stools are harder, I get one to two mils Max from that same spin, which is wild to me. What I think is happening is, I think that when we have that much compaction inside of the intestine, the microbes get bound up inside of the fiber. And I think it actually reduces our microbial diversity just in terms of having constipation. When you look at constipation studies, there are generally lower levels of microbial diversity. I think one of the reasons for that is because they're getting caught in the fiber matrix, which is not great. And so then when we go back to well, these microbes are the main educators of the immune system, right? And then we think about if they're being locked up in a fiber matrix, and they can't get their signal out to tell the rest of the body what's going on, then we inherently will have more inflammation, which leads to more neuro inflammation, right? And so I think that there is a component of that, where when we have more inflammation, we're getting less oxygen to the brain. There was also something I was reading recently, and I'm trying to remember what the source was, but they were talking about how

Speaker 5  1:29:55
different types of like high risk procedures, right? Like bypass type surgeries, where they take the heart out of the chest cavity. They recirculate the blood while they're trying to go through and clean out the different arterials that either needs whatever place, like when they're doing true open heart surgery and they're not going up through the femoral vein. It's really interesting some, and I wish I had the reference for this, but it was a it was basically suspected that these individuals have a higher risk of things like Alzheimer's down the road as well, purely because you lose some of the oxygenation to the brain, right? So there's a lot of factors that I think contribute to what's happening with dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Lewy body, all of the gamut of the neurodegenerative space. But I think the microbiome is a main, a main driver of that, and I do think we're going to see more of it. I think the other thing that's fascinating about Alzheimer's is the more antibiotics you've taken in your lifetime, the higher risk you are of achieving Alzheimer's later in your life. Another interesting statistic is sleep. So the more sleep deprived you are, the higher risk you are of acquiring dementia later in life. So I think there's a it's Dementia is a very multi factorial condition, but I do believe the microbiome is a, is a major component of those factors. Yes, sleep does help clean the brain. I always talk about it as the brain squeeze when you go to sleep. They've done rat rat studies where they've like MRI image the mice. And when you go to sleep, and you enter that deep sleep cycle, your brain actually physically shrinks in size. I think of it as like a sponge. So during the day, we absorb all the fluid from our system, all the toxicity of us like going and being in the world, and maybe it's some of our stress hormones, because we've been like boogieing through the day. You go to sleep at night, and it gets to squeeze all that out like dirty water in a sponge if you sleep well,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:17
okay, what do you think of kimchi compared to sauerkraut?

Speaker 5  1:32:20
I freaking love kimchi. Oh my god, there's like, a radish kimchi. I have no idea what the name of the company is, but it is one of my favorite freaking fermented foods on the planet. Again, the study didn't differentiate between kimchi or sauerkraut or yogurt. It basically gave the gamut of fermented foods in general, consume them and see if we can increase increase your microbial diversity. So if somebody prefers kimchi over sauerkraut, I just say sauerkraut, but like, go for it. Just go for it.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:55
Dr Mather says I thought alcohol free mouthwash was still safe for the microbiome. Is that untrue?

Speaker 5  1:33:03
I would say dive into the literature on that. There was a Do you guys know David Perlmutter? He did a big talk on Alzheimer's and dementia two years ago at the IHS conference, and he was the one who really brought forth the whole concept of mouthwash. And Alzheimer's, and I had started diving into it, I wouldn't say alcohol free, gets you out of the gets you out of the weeds. I think I would much prefer use a nanohydroxyapatite toothpaste and do some tongue scraping. Why would you need a mouthwash? After that? Drink plenty of water, brush your teeth, scrape your tongue, you're good to go and you're Phoenix. Had it figured out. You know,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:47
Doctor Beverly says that lactobacillus acidophilus and oxalobacter can can consume oxalates. So she uses lactobacillus acidophilus is that

Speaker 5  1:34:03
totally reasonable, absolutely yes. And Coconut Oil Pulling Whoever said that.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:10
What is your opinion on the sorry, I didn't mean to No, no, you're good. You're good. What's your opinion on the prebiotic effect of non alcohol, non alcoholics to be found to increase microbial population

Unknown Speaker  1:34:26
on non alcoholics, to increase hang on

Unknown Speaker  1:34:29
also, yeah, I'm not sure

Speaker 5  1:34:31
exactly, but I let me, let me see if I can find that question.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:35
5:55pm that's Theresa. That's our European

Speaker 5  1:34:39
Oh, it's our Austrian. Austrian, yeah, Theresa, have you ever been to the home of Paracelsus? I just like, love that man on a level. Okay, what is your opinion on the prebiotic effect of non or also alcoholic beer bound to increase the microbial pop? Yeah, it's a ferment, right? Like, at the end of the day, it's still a ferment. Fermentation is how we make like alcoholic beverages. So I don't necessarily think like alcoholic or non as long as it's not a high alcohol content, right? Because if you move into that area, then too much alcohol can actually be detrimental to the microbiome. So ferments in general, which includes some of these other more exciting fermented beverages, can be really helpful, as long as they're not done in excess. And I think that's the biggest problem here, especially in the US, like people go for a drink, and it's not just one drink. So I don't think, I don't think alcohol is necessarily an enemy, and I also don't think that we should look at non alcoholic beers. I think my biggest issue with the beer world, especially here in Theresa, I don't know what it's like where you are in Austria, but I am probably going to Debbie Downer all of your guys's fun nights out from this moment forward, but I just think of it as drinking a massive glass of pesticides and pesticide residues. A lot of the fermented beverages we have are not organic. A lot of them are grains that are being fermented, especially here in the US, most of our grain crops, unless specifically identified as organic, are massively sprayed with pesticides. And glyphosate is a finishing spray, being something that helps dry out and move something into maturity. And so I just, I have a really hard time consuming a lot of those beverages, especially if they're us created.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:47
Sorry. Okay, what is your opinion on a mixed homeopathic remedy touted as an anti gas remedy?

Speaker 5  1:36:56
Again, that's are they talking about? Obara gas? Doesn't mention doesn't mean games. I love Homeopathics. I'm totally a fan of using multiple remedies at once. I've done that many times for many years. I use all kinds of different potencies. I use all kinds of different methods. I was taught classical I have done the Nesh course with Amy and Paul, I've also read a ton of different books. And Hahnemann, you know, at first, he was a single remedy guy, and went to multiple remedies in a day. So I just think that homeopathy is such a beautiful it's a beautiful art, and don't be afraid to use it if you feel like, for me, if I feel like there's one or two or three remedies that ping me when I'm talking to a patient, I'll use all of them, which I know for some of the classics. They hate that response, but it is definitely where I am in the world of homeopathy. So I don't know exactly what they're speaking to, but hopefully that answers the question

Bill Clearfield  1:38:00
sour trouts can be made with or from any vegetable. There are just there are just our favorites. Internationally, there may be 1000 different recipes. All are good and may contribute to biodiversity.

Speaker 5  1:38:14
Amen. Amen. It's just fermented foods. Pick up a fermented food book, and if you grow something in your garden this summer, like I will tell you that radish kimchi, I need to figure out what their recipe is, because if I could just make it on my own, I'd grow radishes for acres. If I had acres to do that on

Bill Clearfield  1:38:37
where do you get the agar plates for it says milled, but I'm assuming mold, oh, mold,

Speaker 5  1:38:44
um, let me open up my other computer, because I have it saved as a tag on here. Um, because it's, it's an easy, simple test to run. Mm,

Speaker 5  1:39:12
I will find it and get it to you. It was saved on here, but apparently it's not in my Quick Links anymore, and it used to be you, but I know I have it in that patient's chart, so I can go back and look, I'll find it.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:29
Dr stone asks how much vitamin C?

Speaker 5  1:39:33
Oh, my God, to bowel tolerance. So how? I don't have patients dose it, especially if they're really severe. I might start them at six grams a day, and then have them increase by one gram daily, until they give themselves diarrhea, or until they hit about 25 grams. It's a lot of pills to swallow, but it gives me an idea of how depleted they are. So if they're, if they're at that level, I mean, I'll often then at that point, add in high doses of vitamin A, unless they're pregnant or looking to get pregnant. But I think vitamin A is also a highly underrated component of our immune system. It can also help switch our T regulatory cells to being to being T regulatory cells. So there's a fox p3 receptor that can be induced by vitamin A to help be, to help T reg come and actually bind it. And that's really where we get that anti inflammatory, immune calming impact. And so vitamin the fox p3 receptor is vitamin A dependent. And there are, believe it or not, many people who are quite low with vitamin A. And so I use a lot of vitamin A in my practice, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:52
And then I so dr Berger writes ascorbate, not ascorbic acid, and that's what the vitamin C course I took we were taught also so much better gi tolerance and starting at four grams and then going up from there. Love it. Love it. Okay, how about magnesium citrate and vitamin C?

Speaker 5  1:41:18
I love it. But again, that's kind of where I say that oftentimes people will dive too much into the magnesium citrate. I think magnesium citrate super helpful, but if you're getting to like, over 600 milligrams a day, it's probably not doing the trick, and it's probably giving your your patient, a pretty rumbly belly at that point in time. So I'm a big fan of get it. You know, if you're at like, 300 maybe 400 I think that those are all fine numbers. But that citrate component of it, it's a, it's it brings water into the bowels. I'm like, my brain is oz, oz. Why can I not think of the word right now, it brings water into the bowel, so it's like a laxative effect. And so having odgwdock think thank you, I think osmotic laxative, yes, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:15
Would my mother be proud?

Speaker 5  1:42:16
Huh? Praise her. But it's bringing water into the bowels. And so when it's bringing water into the bowels, but they're still not moving their bowels, it can just make them feel, you know, like when you drink like a big glass of water, and it just feels like your bowels are kind of filled with water, it can give you that kind of, not great feeling. And so I don't really think it's solving the problem. I think that we need to look at different avenues. So I think magnesium citrate is great, but if you're dosing super, super high, I think you should maybe move to additional supportive therapies.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:51
Would you be willing to get an occasional email question from from us? Would you give us your email address?

Speaker 5  1:42:57
Um, sure, I will. I'm going to give you my clinic email address because I finally hired somebody to answer emails for me, which was awesome, and if you get my private one, unfortunately, I checked that maybe once a once a week, if I'm lucky. So things get lost, but she'll she will let me know. She'll ping me and let me know, like, hey, there's a provider who has a question, I also do peer to peer consults. So if you want to talk about patient cases, or if you want to talk about different ways to work together, I'm more than happy to work with you in that way, and she can definitely get that all situated, for sure.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:43
Okay, you I'm up to where you put the link in for mid.stanford.edu something about the food, diet increases microbiome diversity, lowers inflammation. That's that you put that up, right?

Speaker 5  1:43:58
I did, yeah, that's a good study. I highly recommend it.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:03
Are you? Are you mentioned in there?

Unknown Speaker  1:44:06
No, I should be, because how much I promote their article. Let's see. I'm trying to figure out where

Bill Clearfield  1:44:17
we are. It was 617

Unknown Speaker  1:44:20
Oh, wow. Okay, we're really going up here.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:23
We're more than halfway, about 60% down from the top.

Speaker 5  1:44:30
All right. So prior speaker on this zoom said prebiotics are the most effective by the time their problem is too late for the probiotics to make a difference. Your thoughts, ferments, ferments, ferments, ferments, I think prebiotics are great if people can tolerate them. How many of you have patients who cannot tolerate the prebiotics? It's not uncommon. And so I definitely, I don't think prebiotics are bad by any means, but I also think that sometimes we lean too heavily on one philosophy. Right? And maybe I lean too heavily on sauerkraut, maybe I lean too heavily on fermented foods. But if I can get a patient eating in a way that's going to help diversify their biome, that's a major win for me. I mean, Naturopathy is all about getting back to nature, right? And if I can get people to regain health without having to swallow a million capsules, like I've done my job, you know. So I don't know if that helps or not, but I think prebiotics are great. They can be crazy, effective and wonderful. I also think there are many people who cannot tolerate them, so it's really just about what your patient can or can't tolerate.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:39
What do you do with someone who tells you they can't stand kimchi? They can't stand the sauerkraut for fermented foods? What do we do then? I mean,

Speaker 5  1:45:48
that's when I'll ask them about yogurts. But even in even then, that's when I go to probiotics, because that's why probiotics were created, right? Like, if you look at, you know, therabiotic Complete, or the vital 10, or the pro five. It's Lactobacillus bulgaricus, it's Streptococcus thermophilus. It's all kinds of different Bifidobacterium species. It's basically what you would find in a yogurt. And so if people don't want to do it through food, then we have capsules. It's one of the reasons we have probiotics. Um, but again, I would admit I would rotate them so I would rotate people through different probiotics, just so that they're not getting a consistent signal from one. And I also think that just like addressing the misconception that if somebody takes a probiotic, they're automatically going to have that species in their intestines. I think of probiotics more like transient pass through species, meaning like, if we think of our microbiome as an island and our microbes live on the island, then probiotics are like tourists. Some tourists will come and stay for a week, some will stay for a month, some will stay for three months, some will decide to stay for a year, but they're rarely going to actually transplant and live there. And so whenever people are like, Oh, well, I, you know, I've been taking x probiotic and I'm not seeing it on my stool test, it's like, yeah, you're you're probably not. But what's interesting is, when those tourists come and visit the island, they're still exchanging currency with that local economy, right? And that's really where I start thinking about the genetic shifts that happen when microbes come into the environment. And that's where I think about the different postbiotic products are that are being either given if they're missing and or exchanged in the environment. So I do think that there is definite benefit, but don't be don't be fooled to think that they're going to show up on all of your stool tests. Right? So I can go back to our stool test ran into the very beginning.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:01
Okay? Bifidobacterium decreases histamine, lactobacillus increases histamine. Yes, no,

Speaker 5  1:48:08
we talked about that. Yep, that's basically and lacto prime is great because it doesn't have a prebiotic. I'm way behind you here. You're good. No, no, I'm just saying that. I almost feel like this person took the what we said, and just kind of retyped it into the chat. But yeah, Bifidobacterium, I'll use for high histamine type cases, because lactobacillus can be histamine producing. We use diluted juice from the fermented foods in drinking and in plants. Perfect. I love that.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:38
How about the one before? Can anything help memory loss issues for manic depressive drugs? Where is that at right above the diluted juice that you just read, oh, I

Speaker 5  1:48:49
don't see that at all on mine. I wonder if it was a private to you. Um, what was the question?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:55
Can anything help memory loss issues for manic depressive drugs?

Speaker 5  1:49:02
I mean, first, I think for the manic depressive drugs, this is where I'm like, I would love for fecal transplant to be used in those types of cases, because I do think it's a microbiome depletion issue. I know that there are some herbs. There's different Ayurvedic herbs that can be really supportive for memory. But I think honestly, reducing their antipsychotic exposure as much as possible, if you can, and also improving their microbiome is probably going to be some of the best things you can do for memory. But Sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep. I mean, a lot of these individuals, especially when we're looking in the mental health disturbance world, I think that oftentimes it can be an HPA Axis dysregulation, and I think it can also be significant toxicity to the brain with lack of good sleep.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:58
Thoughts on colonic hydrotherapy for severe constipation after other things have failed.

Speaker 5  1:50:05
I mean, colonics are fine. I just, I hate to see people get super dependent on colonics. I will tell you one of the big, my biggest gripes in practice with my constipation patients is they get to me and they want fecal transplant, and nobody has talked to them about how much water they're drinking. And it blows my mind, like it actually blows my mind. I've had people who have seen gi specialists. They've gone to all the different specialty clinics in the US, so like Mayo Clinic, Cleveland Clinic, and then they end up at my doorstep, and nobody's asked them how much water they drink in a day. And that, I really think that we one of my analogies I like to use with patients is that if you're constipated and you're not willing to drink water, it's like going to a slip and slide and not putting water on the slip and slide and seeing how that feels like it's not pleasant. So we need, we need moisture to make our bowels move, and then our bowels will also reabsorb. Because our body is intelligent, it needs moisture, so it'll take from the stool. It'll reabsorb from the large bowel, which means you're reabsorbing a bunch of stuff that actually should have been dumped, and it wasn't dumped. I just think it's like being floating in a bathtub where you never drain the water, and you never put in fresh water, and every day you just get back into that same tub water, and it gets nasty and grimy and gross, like it is

Unknown Speaker  1:51:45
throwing out the baby with the bath

Speaker 5  1:51:47
water, right? Yeah, truthfully, right. But like, it's, it's real. And I think what's, what's hard about it is that, you know, a lot of people will be like, Well, I do my colonics and I do clonics Two or three times a day, or two or three times a week, and I'm like, Cool. How much water do you drink? And when they aren't paying attention to that factor, but they're willing to go and do you know an intra rectal procedure to get their bowels flushed? That, to me is I had a patient that I had to kick out of my practice because he wasn't willing to drink water, and all he wanted was to do fecal transplant. And I was like, why would I give you fecal transplant if you're not going to take care of the biome that I would give you, like, if you're not willing to drink water? And you know, he blamed it on having ADHD. And I hope this isn't insensitive, but to me, at some point there has to be ownership of your own health, and if you're not willing to put in the effort, in the work to consume enough water to ensure that your bowels may work like he just wasn't even willing to give it a try, that's That's hard. That's a hard place to be.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:59
That's an old story. Comment about sleep helps clean the brain, and also coconut oil pulling. So I don't know if you even need to comment on that. And pickles that are fermented.

Speaker 5  1:53:15
I love pickles that are fermented. Pickles are so good. I like sometimes I just crave pickles. I don't know about you guys, yeah, sleep is really good for the brain. I highly recommend it. Please get your sleep like prioritize it even over working out. I hate to say that, but if you're exhausted at the end of the day and you're trying to get a workout in, but it might actually interfere with how much sleep you can get. Get a good night of sleep, and then the next day you're actually going to have the energy to go and do the workout you need to do to take care of your body like your brain needs it, oil pulling, I really love I don't know what else I think that that was in response to tongue scraping and and the toothpaste.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:56
So question about why alcoholics get dementia. Does it kill the microbiome?

Speaker 5  1:54:03
Yeah, it definitely kills the microbiome. But there's also, you know, have you guys heard of the type three diabetes theory with Alzheimer's, where it's a metabolic disturbance in the brain, and it's basically like another type of diabetes. I think we have a lot of alcoholics who are in that realm.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:24
Okay, yes. Dr James says you can make homeopathic fermented remedies. Maybe we should have a class on that cool. Okay, okay, avoid fermented foods and leftovers that are high in histamine.

Speaker 5  1:54:44
Yeah, I mean, that's for a lot of people. I think she's asking more for the mold population, you know, like, I think about my real mold sensitive patients who can't take leftover foods because the histamine content increases. If you're at that level, I think that makes sense. But I also I don't avoid fermented foods. So I don't, I don't know if I agree. I like fermented foods if you can get them into it, if you can tolerate it, do it. If you can't work yourself up to a place where you can get fermented foods in your diet. I think we already talked about this ascorbic acid versus ascorbate radish. She's probably talking about, I don't know the company name, but I am talking about just radish. It's delicious. Osmonic, thank you. Osmotic laxative.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:39
Here's can I? I'm going to ask you a question not on here. How should you interpret a microbiome test that comes back, quote, unquote, normal, but the patient is clearly symptomatic?

Speaker 5  1:55:53
Um, that's when I like to look at diversity scores, and that's when I like to look at organic acid testing more than I do stool testing. I think I get more information from from an organic acid test than I do stool test. So I usually start with an organic acid test, because it's a little bit more broad based. That's a really good place for me to get a better grip of what's happening more broadly, I'll look at things like heavy metals. I mean, I know that hair mineral analysis is not fully accurate, but I think in terms of a relatively inexpensive way to assess, like, what are your metals look like? I think that's another place that is an important spot to look into. But I'm, yeah, I don't know if you guys know kpmo, but I really like the kpmo organic acid test or the MIT. I think it's like the metabolic insight panel. They're great. And then I also think about diversity. A lot of the stool tests don't give you a diversity score, which is one of the reasons I use more of like the Nirvana biome testing, just because maybe things will show up as, as, quote, unquote, normal. But maybe it's still, there still be maybe components of it where we need to help increase diversity, help increase like, again, at the end of the day, I'm a naturopathic doctor, right? So, like, I'm always assessing, what are your foundations of health? Are you sleeping? Are you drinking enough water? What are you doing to mitigate your stress? What is your stress? Have you looked at and or addressed childhood traumas? Have you done homeopathy and or counseling around those traumas? I mean, usually when patients come in symptomatic and a digestive tract, and there's no lab to explain what is happening. I'm generally looking more in the emotional realm than I am in what's physically happening in the actual tube of the intestine, because I think about the intestine as it is our first exposure to the outside world. So if you can't digest your outside world, your digestive tract is not going to be handling what's going on in its inner world very well either. And so oftentimes, I mean, I think I've had one patient in my now eight years in practice, I've had one patient who truly had an L glutamine deficiency. That's what we did. It helped. And there wasn't actually an underlying emotional component. But this guy had done so much personal work on his emotional field, and it was wild. Like, usually I'll start to dive into that. And he's like, been there, done that, worked through this, worked through this. Like he had daily mindfulness practices. Like, was very, very self aware. And I was like, well, then shoot, I guess we'll just try l glutamine with you. And it like was a miracle nutrient for this guy. But I think that more often than not, there's a deeper emotional layer there. And when you start to dive into When did this happen and what was going on in your life around that time, you're going to come to find a lot more out about that person than you may or may not have wanted to.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:15
Okay, and we're going to let you go here. You look like you've been at it for here with us for two hours. But one last question. All right, if you had to simplify the microbiome care for for us clinicians who are feeling overwhelmed, what are the two or three highest yield actions you would you would recommend

Speaker 5  1:59:35
highest yield actions? I mean, again, don't underestimate the importance of drinking enough water and being hydrated. Do not underestimate that importance. I think it's it is so commonly overlooked, and it is such an important part of ensuring that we have healthy bowels. So please make sure your patients are drinking enough water. I think the other thing is really more in that fermented food realm. But again, if they can't tolerate it, then probiotics and don't get so caught up like you know, I think what's so interesting is industry, supplement industry, has done such a great job of telling people you have to use this particular strain at this particular Cfu count, and if you don't do that, it's not going to work, and it's not going to be the right product for your patient. And I actually disagree with that. I think that what's really interesting is we need to give the biome exposure to a lot of different microorganisms and a lot of different functionality, that different microbes carry. Functionality being, what are they making? What are they producing? And so I would say, you know, rotating a good probiotic, if they can't do sauerkraut, kimchi, yogurt, some sort of a fermented food, so water ferments, they can't tolerate ferments. Start rotating some probiotics and until they can tolerate ferments. That would be my like, Uber simplified, step forward on that. But I think you can actually get people to eat yogurt more than you believe you can, and then not being afraid of their food, like, teach them how to not be afraid of eating. I think a lot of people, especially in our world, like, believe me, gold standard is an elimination diet, right? With a lot of these digestive issues, it's like, take all the food out and see what, which food is the problem. I think it's so much bigger than that now, because so many people have done that, and now they're afraid to eat. Get them off of conventional foods. By that, I mean pesticides. Think about pesticides. Please don't use them yourself. Please don't spray your dandelions, if you don't like them, pull them out with a weeder. But please don't use those toxic chemicals, because not only are they in your lawn, they're also going to leach down into all the different waterways we have. So I think it's it's actually really wild to me that pesticides aren't screamed about from the rooftops at this point in time. I mean, if you look at I was in a conference where Zach Bush was doing a talk. If you guys don't follow him, please do. He's amazing, but he pulled up a graph of glyphosate and glyphosate use just in the United States, and it's basically on an exponential curve, right? So it started out low and slow and like the late 80s, and then now it's just we use so many, hundreds of 1000s of gallons of glyphosate alone, just glyphosate, right? So that's like, not even taking into consideration all of the other toxic herbicides and pesticides that we use in our soil. But when you look at that, and you start looking at the number of individuals who have developed autism spectrum disorder and like, by that, I mean, like the severe cases where kiddos aren't able to speak, they're not able to verbalize. Like we're seeing exponential growth in a lot of those as well. And so you can track it back to the use of pesticides in the US. And so just stop using it. Vote with your dollar. Please, please, please, please, please, get to know your farmers. That would be my my major plea for the microbiome.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:32
One more question, any good books you'd recommend for GI or gut health?

Speaker 5  2:03:38
Oh, my God, there's one called Let me see if I can see it on my shelf. It is the super The Secret Life of your microbiome is one that I like. That one's a good one, but there's one, I think. So this one's a good one for you guys to check out.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:05
Who wrote that? Pull it back. Prescott, yeah, you're showing us the Okay? Susan, press, there we go.

Speaker 5  2:04:15
Got it. This one's a really good book. There's also, think it's called the superhuman organism. It's not on my shelf, which I'm surprised by. I'm not seeing it, but I'm pretty sure it's called the superhuman organism. That's another great book to look at for microbiome and microbiome health. But I like this one a lot.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:45
Can Can you show us again?

Unknown Speaker  2:04:48
It's the secret life of your microbiome.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:51
Oh, that's all Okay, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:59
All right. Any, any, we always like a little summary or wrap up

Unknown Speaker  2:05:06
from me, yeah, from you. Oh, man, take care of your guts.

Speaker 6  2:05:12
I saw on your website. You have dandelion. Do you use dandelion for the gut?

Speaker 5  2:05:17
I love dandelion. I use. Are you guys familiar with dandy blend, tea, dandy blend? I have some dandelion here in my at my house. Yeah, Dan bling is amazing. It's, it's so what's Do you know? Like the law of signatures with herbs, no where, what it looks like can oftentimes show you what it's doing in the body. So dandelions pop these really bright yellow flowers, right in the spring, you're probably seeing them all over the place, yes, but yellow is that signature of bile, right? So it's a digestive bitter. It's going to help with bio flow. It's going to help with secretion of digestive enzymes, and so I'm a really big fan of dandelion it's also really supportive to the liver, just in general. It's a kind of a liver detox cleansing herb. I'm not a hater on dandelions. I think dandelions are very, very important. So I drink dandelion tea most days, just as a way to kind of continue to support my liver. But yeah, I'm, I'm a big fan. I like digestive bitters just in general. I think that that's another thing. We didn't really talk much about it this evening, but I really love using digestive bitters as a way to help stimulate the digestive process. The bitters touch the tongue. The tongue sends a signal to the brain. The brain then sends a signal to the rest of the digestive organs. And so it's basically a top to bottom retraining of the digestive enzymes to make sure that our digestive tract is what's doing the work to digest the food. So I'm a big, big fan, but ultimately, I think in summary, I think in summary, don't hate on the bugs. I would say one of the things that I think is most important to think about with the microbiome is when we think about what Albert Einstein used to say is, you try the same thing over and over again, expecting a different result, that's basically the definition of sanity, Insanity, right? And so oftentimes, people have run the gamut of antimicrobials. They've been to every different person to do the kill tactic. And what I would recommend is maybe instead, approach it with a restoration lens and try and bring back and rebuild the microbiome, because I think that we are merely a reflection of the environment around us. We are microcosm of the greater macrocosm that we live in, and I think we're seeing mass ecosystem destruction all around us, for all the reasons we talked about tonight, right? And many more. Yes, we've got pesticides, but there's also the pharmaceutical industry. We don't talk about a lot of the medications that we prescribe being antimicrobial, but I would just encourage you to look it up. You're going to prescribe a medication, or if there's a medication on your med list that you often write a prescription for, go and check and see if it has any anti microbial research on it, because a lot of times, I think we underestimate that many of the drugs that we use are also kind of off label antimicrobial agents, and I think that we need to really be more conscientious about how to bring these microorganisms back and into community with each other and into better Balance, so that we're not constantly trying to get a leg up on dysbiosis by trying to kill the next bug that pops up. It's like, whack a mole. Don't play Whack a Mole. Bring the microbes back for a summary.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:15
All right, getting lots lots of praise for you in the chat as always. Thanks guys, thank you for being with us. You have any conferences coming up or

Unknown Speaker  2:09:30
speaking engagements, or I am speaking coming to Reno anytime soon again?

Speaker 5  2:09:36
Yeah, we've got our national sales meeting in June. So I'll be back in Reno, I think, the second week of June. All right, well, don't be a stranger, you know? Yeah, and then I will be at the a forum conference, or, sorry, IFM conference Institute for Functional Medicine at the end of the month in May. I'll go to the naturopathic associations conference in July, and then I think I'm going to go to doctor Anderson's conference in October. That's one of the ones I've been looking at the amp.

Speaker 3  2:10:09
So there you go. Okay, yeah, check it out. Not to brag, but I will also be at IFM I am speaking, I'll

Unknown Speaker  2:10:18
bind you on the speaker scene. Come on. I'd love to listen to you talk.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:22
Yep, I am speaking.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:24
I love that. Yeah, it was a complete surprise. So, oh, I'm sure,

Bill Clearfield  2:10:29
I don't know Is Dr Berger still here, we were at ammg last weekend, and we had a pretty good time. So fun. I've been AMT, you know, we're not, we're not a 4m we're, you know, we're Avis,

Speaker 5  2:10:43
you know, I have, like, literally, have just kind of gotten the back end history of all that stuff, and it's just so wild to me. It sounds like it was a group effort and then a breakup, and then basically two different entities formed. So, yeah, so a forum is a hard one for me, just because, and I don't know how you feel, Dr Nario, but like it.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:10
He's a faculty member there, so he's drafted Kool Aid.

Speaker 5  2:11:14
I think what's hard about it is it feels really commercialized now, like to a point where a lot of the speakers who are speaking are pushing or promoting products without really saying the product right, because they got to do the CME thing. But they're also like not doing the CME thing. And then it's so focused on anti aging, which I think as a female who is not going to opt to do Botox in my life, it's just a really interesting world to watch people not want to age. And I think that aging and wrinkles and all that stuff, it's like that's where wisdom is, you know, and there's a component of it that just feels like functional medicine, in my perspective, is like finding the root cause and addressing the underlying concern. But a forum has almost taken it to this like, and maybe it's just because we were in Florida, but it just felt like very

Speaker 5  2:12:16
not wanting to accept that we all age and like, aging is a normal part of life, and I would love it if it was more longevity focused. And like, living a healthy like living healthy into your aging years, versus anti aging. You know what I mean? Like, there's, um, anyways, I'm sure we can.

Speaker 7  2:12:37
Well, I think what they mean by anti aging, there's two kind of aging, there's normal aging, there's pathological aging, and what's happening is now is pathological aging that needs to be managed back to normal aging. Because I don't think we can stop the clock of aging. It's part of our genetic program, you know, but we can slow the process of it. So I think that's the concept.

Speaker 5  2:13:01
Sure I understand that and I agree that that's the concept. I think that terming it anti aging, though, right, when you've just said we all age, is it's just an interesting terminology,

Speaker 7  2:13:17
anti pathological aging. But this, they make it anti aging, just for, you know, being, you know, sarcastic, or possibly because Dr clads, who's the founder, you know, they have also books of mortality. I don't know if you read, read about it. So, immortality. So they're just trying to push the edge. But yes, it's, I don't, don't take the words literally, but take it, you know, it's, it's deep meaning is to slow the process of the aging

Speaker 2  2:13:53
as a faculty member, the bigger take that I can share to everyone is, I'm really more focused on the on the educational side of a frame and the commercial side that everybody's seeing it is unbelievably growing, and everybody's seeing it as a business. The thing that I can vouch for, really is the top notch education I go to a frame, not because of the generation of the income that we get there. It's really top notch education. And if you really want new stuff, you really get new stuff over there. So the commercialization part that I cannot deny that it is growing, but the really, the more credible word that I can send out as a faculty member is the education that we deliver to our students and fellows so and even the audience who attends the conferences. So if you if you just want new and upgraded. behind the scenes of our curriculum. It's a very rigorous curriculum that we have created.

Speaker 7  2:14:53
Yeah, you can come here to Dr William Clearfield, you can learn better

Unknown Speaker  2:14:57
than any conference. They don't want

Speaker 7  2:14:59
me anymore. Yeah? Dr William Clearfield, Tuesday is delivering the cutting, cutting edge. So if you're looking for education, you come here. Yeah. Well, right here every week we've been here since promoting you. Dr William Clearfield, everywhere, even I want you to bring you to my clinic here in California, and I'm trying to call you, and you said you're busy, busy. And then

Speaker 3  2:15:23
they text me, I was actually seeing patients all day. You know,

Speaker 7  2:15:27
I see patients all day too. I start moving to clinical work now, but in between, I just call you and see if you can, if you can come and move here.

Speaker 3  2:15:39
I'll talk to you later. Okay, thank you guys. Thank you so much for being with us again, and we'll be calling you again for maybe the fall. Okay, okay, don't be a stranger. Yeah, thank you so much. Thank you all right, thank you all and we'll see you again. Oh, by the way, next week, we got Bill Andrews talking about anti aging. Don't tell him what I said.

Unknown Speaker  2:16:09
I will all right.

Speaker 6  2:16:13
By the way, you look so young, amazingly young. Oh, thank you. Thanks guys. Have a great rest of your night.

Speaker 3  2:16:21
We'll talk soon. Thank you. Thank you all. Any any last words?

Speaker 2  2:16:24
Dr Nerio, no, we got all pooped out with a very in depth discussion.

Speaker 5  2:16:31
Pun intended, I'm an hour ahead of you guys. It's like it's nearing my bedtime.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:36
Oh, the guys on the East Coast, it's after 10.

Speaker 5  2:16:39
So I know I don't know how you guys do it. This is what I wind down just when I hop off my computer. Okay, all right. Good night, everybody. Take care. Bye, guys.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai