Unknown Speaker  01:01
how's it going?

Unknown Speaker  01:19
How you doing? Fred? I

Speaker 1  01:20
can't hear anything.

Unknown Speaker  01:35
So what are you eating?

Bill Clearfield  01:38
Don't tell anybody some pretzels.

Unknown Speaker  01:40
Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  01:44
Man, you know you're not supposed to eat that stuff.

Speaker 2  01:48
You still have to need some salt and stuff. Yeah, you

Bill Clearfield  01:53
know I'm supposed to be the holistic doctor here. I'm not supposed to eat pretzels. Hi, doctors. Aaron,

Unknown Speaker  02:02
how are you?

Bill Clearfield  02:03
Well, you know me. I'm having the time of my life as always, and you,

Unknown Speaker  02:07
I haven't heard from you for a long time.

Bill Clearfield  02:13
If somebody misses me, at least

Speaker 3  02:16
no, because I keep messaging you, but you don't return my come my messages. So I'm just wondering, are you or anywhere else, or No,

Bill Clearfield  02:26
I haven't been anywhere. You've been messaging me. I haven't gotten any Yes,

Speaker 3  02:29
yes, I message you on WhatsApp, so and sometimes takes you a month to respond.

Bill Clearfield  02:38
Yeah, you know. I know you're, you're anything, anything urgent?

Speaker 3  02:45
No, no, it just was about the conference. So I thought maybe we can announce it. Or yeah, we'll do a bet. We'll do, yeah, okay. So yeah, we are preparing for the conference. So bring

Bill Clearfield  03:02
you want to let you announce it.

Unknown Speaker  03:07
It does. That's, it doesn't matter. So that's, I guess. So did you receive your banners? And

Unknown Speaker  03:16
I know I got my banner. Okay, so

Speaker 3  03:19
it's circulating already circulating on social media. So I don't know if you see it or not, but you already posted many, many times. So Hello, Dr Fred.

Unknown Speaker  03:33
Yeah, I'm not a doctor though. Sorry, doctor life,

Bill Clearfield  03:37
he's a he's a doctor in our world? Yeah, hey, no bill,

Speaker 2  03:43
the worst I ever had one time I was so hungry, I went to 711 and got sushi. It's just like, I hope I don't get sick.

Unknown Speaker  03:55
So lucky you're alive. What

Speaker 2  03:58
I know? Yeah, so, so what's the bio quantum, uh, Academy,

Bill Clearfield  04:13
oh, you said the magic word, go ahead, Doctor Zen.

Speaker 3  04:17
Oh, did he ask me? Yeah? Oh, so you, you know, you know, we are from the same academy, right? Yeah, Academy is doing well. Thank you so much signing up. We're converting a lot of medical doctors to integrative medicine to homeopathy. So, yeah, we are very, very busy. And now the our third international conference is coming up, November, 8 and nine. We are very, very busy with that. I hope all of you can join. So we are, we are making, you know, legacy for for national medicine.

Speaker 2  05:07
Hey, hey, Bill, yeah, I was going to tell you Michael said is two good, really lectures, one on the thyroid and one on breast cancer. Who was that? Mike the speaker tonight. Okay, yeah, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:23
had Mike one before he does a good job. We're supposed to have one in the summertime, but he had a appendix in the situs attack. So, yeah, so Dr narios

Unknown Speaker  05:39
here. Doctor Nerio,

Speaker 4  05:43
Hi, Doctor zeren, I, I was, I'm sorry about that. Miss communication there, but for sure, next time I'm going to be I'm going to be there. Yeah, it's

Speaker 3  05:52
a big mess. So, so I don't know if you read my message. So I Oh,

Speaker 4  05:58
not yet. Not yet. Okay. Is there WhatsApp

Speaker 3  06:01
operating United States? Because I see whoever United States not responding so fast. One of them is Dr Clearfield. So what I was asking you, Dr narya, if you have any pre recorded video already, so you can send it to us on your behalf, we can, you know, share it. Okay, well, I'm

Speaker 4  06:24
gonna look if there's some homeopathic lectures that I have there, and then, yeah, that's probably something that we can work on. Yeah,

Speaker 3  06:34
this conference actually is. It's very, it's very important for the Academy and the faculty as well. So because we are having almost 14 graduates,

Speaker 4  06:43
oh, wow, congratulations, yes, thank

Speaker 3  06:47
you. 12 of them are going to present their articles at the conference. Oh,

Speaker 4  06:51
that's kind of like the right of passage is how they that's how they finish.

Speaker 3  06:56
Yes, that's they have to present their articles either, you know, at the conference, or at the webinars, at the faculty, you know, meetings. But this time happened to be because they're graduating December 6, so they're all going to present their own research the conference. Oh,

Speaker 4  07:15
good. And I'll, I'm going to be going to Germany, actually, for the medical conference, and I'm for sure, going to get a lot of new updates about homeopathy there energy medicine, and that's one of the reasons why we're going, we're going to be looking for new devices for the clinic and new, I guess, resources for homeopathic remedies. So it's always a once a year deal. It's called medicine week in bad and bad in Germany, and that's why it's it's something that that I'm really looking forward because that's when you see all these European providers or doctors who are there, yeah, yeah. I don't know if you've been to one, have you?

Speaker 3  07:53
Yes, yes. I was one of the those conference. It was a conference closing. There are 400 homeopaths from around the world, and just two of us from Canada. We had four from United States, from all over the world. It's just fascinating. And actually, I shared that at the webinar last webinar, and I'm looking forward to the, you know, to the next one, but we'll see. Hopefully you come come back with the good news. But Germany was, you know, we're looking up to Germany now, Canada, United States are there, or they have,

Speaker 4  08:42
right? Well, we're, we're going to have, I guess, a tour of, I think we're going to go to heal, heal, where the homeopathic remedy factory is, or where it's being made. So we're going to go into that facility, and we're going to be, hopefully, seeing everybody who's in charge of, heal.

Speaker 3  09:00
Oh, why don't you go to doctor rekovic as well? Yeah,

Speaker 4  09:06
Rick away, I think I I've heard of him. It's actually doctor Cora, who I work with here in the office, actually knows these people. That's why, when we go there, she's basically the one in charge. She speaks German. That's why she's going to be talking to all these doctors, and we're just going to get introduced to them as as we tour Germany. Pretty, pretty exciting. I heard it. It's cold. It's not the the warmest place now on Earth, but we'll be fine.

Unknown Speaker  09:40
Yeah, yeah, you will enjoy it. You will enjoy it. So

Bill Clearfield  09:44
the bad is Ulam ba Choi, where my son lives, it's already snowed twice, and it's he says it's minus eight, which is

Unknown Speaker  09:58
so cold already,

Bill Clearfield  09:59
yeah, it gets down to about 20 below Fahrenheit in this that's sometimes the high for the day in January.

Speaker 5  10:07
Yeah, it's brutal. And that's quite a month to host that conference. You know, I'll be there in Europe, also going to a different conference. I'm going to be going to Rome, Italy for the conference, November, 15 and 16th, and your friend, Dr Gersh, will be there. I saw she's on the lineup and hair talk, so that'll be interesting. Alright,

Unknown Speaker  10:32
what's it all about? Stefan? What's good?

Speaker 5  10:34
It's the Italian functional medicine symposium.

Unknown Speaker  10:39
Oh, there. They have those things going on there too, huh? Yeah,

Speaker 5  10:42
I just found out about it by incident. I mean, I was talking to my rep for bio light, this infrared panel I have, telling him about a case report. And he's like, Yeah, I'm going to go lecture in Rome. I'm like, can you give me a ticket? So you got me some tickets?

Unknown Speaker  10:56
Oh, I

Speaker 5  10:57
thought your plane ticket. They got me some tickets to the conference. Is cheap. It's like 150 euros is nothing. And Logan wanted to go, so let's go better than a for M Vegas. I can't go to Vegas against it too repetitive. Gotta do something different.

Unknown Speaker  11:12
This is your G for M version, I guess. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  11:16
smaller, nothing. It can be as big as that. I already

Bill Clearfield  11:19
talked to Dr klatz today. If I tell him you're not coming, he's going to be upset. What

Unknown Speaker  11:24
did he get me? Tickets? I'll go. If he gives me a ticket,

Unknown Speaker  11:28
I'll see what I can do. You know,

Speaker 5  11:30
I was just hanging out with Palasa and and Joseph today. I stayed at their place last night.

Speaker 4  11:39
How is that? That is a that is interesting. Yeah, need to dig into these deeper minds. Yeah,

Speaker 5  11:47
exactly. You know, I just wanted to see what these two are good. They're so interesting. Like, all they do is just talk mechanism of action and path of physiology. Like, all day, it's amazing. These two are just like, they're in it,

Unknown Speaker  11:59
they're about to go to bed, and that's what they talk about,

Speaker 5  12:02
huh? Yeah, it was like, we wake up, that's what we're talking about. We're having a coffee, that's what we're talking about. We're up till like midnight talking about it. It's crazy. They live and breathe it. That's passion for you very much. So it was great experience. And then I also trained them today at some physical activity, and that was a sight to behold. We did sprint on the beach halasa. I got to see halasa Sprint. I mean, quite the site. And Joseph did well. He pulled a hamstring, and he went a little bit too hard, because they got competitive him, because halasa was like, I'm going to beat you, Dr Joseph. And then

Speaker 4  12:38
limping. Well, Joseph looks to he's, he's kind of fit, isn't he? He kind of does work out. He

Speaker 5  12:45
does. But they did learn a lot. We went to the gym and I taught them some of the fundamentals there, watched their technique a little bit, so they did need a little bit of oversight, and I'm hoping that they continue

Speaker 6  12:59
with it. You're competitive, man, he's he's competitive. But last year at a 4m he challenged me to an arm wrestle. He is too competitive.

Unknown Speaker  13:08
He's too competitive. Oh yeah.

Speaker 5  13:12
He wants to beat everyone. He wanted to beat me. He was trying to pull I was pulling down. 200 pounds lat pull down. He's like, let me do this. Let me do this. I'm like, no, no, no, you get 70 pounds.

Unknown Speaker  13:24
That's him.

Bill Clearfield  13:26
Well, our speakers here and chomping at the bit, just one quick note. I put a little note in the in the chat, our good friend Jay Campbell is having some sort of blow out peptide sale for bulk peptides. I think he's got a new a new entity that he's working with. So he asked me to, if you're interested, go to Jay Jay at either email at Jay, at Jay Campbell com, or just Jay campbell.com and look for his he's got a new peptide lineup, and he's got some pretty good prices there. So if you're interested in peptides, you know, give him a ring.

Unknown Speaker  14:05
Is it cheaper now?

Bill Clearfield  14:08
Yeah, it's cheaper. So, so, so I told him, I give him that, that little plug. And with that, we have our good friend, Michael Nelson, who's recovered from whatever it is he was ailing him, and so we missed him the last time. And Mike's going to talk to us a little bit about DHA. What else you got in there? Oh, you got zeaxanthin and moody, right? And something else, and brain and brain, brain health. Yeah, right. So we know zeaxanthin and lutein are always the two. If you look in some any of the eye supplements, they're always in there. So enlighten us, sir, and tell us who you are. And let me, let's get started right now. Go ahead.

Unknown Speaker  15:01
Okay. Can you hear me?

Unknown Speaker  15:03
We hear you? Fine.

Speaker 7  15:05
Okay, perfect. Well, it's great to be back. I had a little last Well, I was scheduled to speak. I was Father's Day. I was working, I was having my son over, and I went out to dinner the night before, and I got food poisoning, and I ruptured my appendix, and I was 100% septic, and I was in the hospital for a week, and had emergency surgery and laparoscopic surgery, had a drain put in, and the whole deal. So I got first hand accounting of what LPS really can do to you, and it does do crazy things to you. But I'm back and I feel great. I would say I'm 105% so I'm feeling pretty good. So I'm sorry for the interruption. For last, last schedule, I'm going to share my screen and start the presentation we'll get. Don't

Bill Clearfield  16:05
let it happen again.

Unknown Speaker  16:07
Well, that won't happen again anyway.

Bill Clearfield  16:13
You know, you know, it was very inconvenient. We had to scramble real quick to find somebody else. You know, you next time you have an appendicitis attack, you know, be a little bit more thoughtful. Okay,

Speaker 7  16:24
yeah. You know, it's funny. I think I have my son text you while I was on the gurney, saying, Hey, listen, you got to contact Dr Bill, because he's going to, he's going to be upset if I don't get get a hold of him. Can everybody see this? Can they see my screen? Yes, yeah, a little

Bill Clearfield  16:44
echoey.

Unknown Speaker  16:45
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  16:47
your sounds. A little echoey. I don't know. I'm not

Speaker 7  16:49
sure why that's happening, but let's, let's get started so you know my background is, is in functional medicine. I started, literally practicing functional medicine before it was even called functional medicine. So this is back in the 90s, and I got introduced to a gentleman named by by the name of Jeff bland. And Jeff was very instrumental in my upbringing in the functional medicine arena, and I had never lost sight of that since. And so for over 30 years, I was seeing patients practicing functional medicine using the tools of functional medicine. My degree is in chiropractic, so I had no other choice but to use a functional medicine model, really, to try and achieve the results that I was trying working with my patients on and I did, and it was something that really gave me a lot of enthusiasm and insight into the mechanisms in which the body responds and how it works, and how to kind of modulate the basic fundamental biology so people can become Healthy. And one of the things I really tried to achieve with my patients was brain health, because a healthy brain is a healthy body, and healthy body is a healthy brain. So one of the things that we all see in our practice is people that are coming in that are having issues with their mood, mind or memory. And so about eight years ago, I decided to throw in the towel in practice, and I opened up and created my own manufacturing facility where I actually make all my own supplements and sell them to physicians and wholesalers and that the like, and it's all based on improving people's mood, mind and memory. One of the products that we, that I created, and I have a great interest in explaining, is a product called Brain omega, and it incorporates the DHA lutein, zeaxanthin. And so that's what we're going to talk about today. But before we do that, we're going to talk about what some of the global trends are and where we're headed, I think, as a society, in relationship to the upcoming dilemma of dementia, Parkinson's, neurodegenerative conditions, neuropsychiatric conditions, depression, and how that's going to impact all of us, and it already probably is, at some level. And then we're going to talk about the role of DHA lutein, zeaxanthin, that can impact those particular mechanisms and conditions. And then we'll talk a little bit about dosages, and some of this research studies that have been used the combination of the two. So let's get started. I believe that this is a foundation for good health. I believe that if you have, and I know just from the amount of literature that I've gone through and my own personal journey, that if you do not have adequate levels of the Omega three, in particular, DHA in your body, you do not have a firm foundation to build any cellular health from, and we'll talk about how that works, because it's so imperative that we maintain the integrity of the cell membrane fluidity and the fidelity and the find the ability for the cell to respond to inputs, whether it's a ligand that needs to conform To the cell receptor, or it's simply just having some flexibility, or it's having the ability not to be overly inflamed secondary to too much arachidonic acid or or some of the other inflammatory fats that get set up in the cell. So time spent building a solid foundation will pay off greatly, tenfold, and you must have first a solid foundation to do anything. So the I'm gonna move something here. Let's see if we can do that.

Speaker 8  20:55
Oh, I'm going to Nope, I

Unknown Speaker  21:25
he's muted himself.

Speaker 7  21:36
Are we there? You kind of muted yourself for a second. I'm sorry, yeah. So what I was saying is that we're in the midst of an epidemic as it relates to Alzheimer's disease, and it's coming to the shores and the clinics all around us, and it's going to, it's, it's going to be one of the biggest impacts that we've seen in healthcare that has ever hit our our doors right now, approximately 7 million people in America have Alzheimer's. These are Americans, 65 or older. One in nine of those 65 and older has Alzheimer's disease, Frank Alzheimer's, and nearly two thirds of them of those are women, so it unfairly affects women more so than men.

Unknown Speaker  22:24
Let's see if I can.

Speaker 7  22:26
And this is concerning, because the women actually take care of the Alzheimer's condition the most, right? So that these these women are going to be in great need of care, and we're also going to have to figure out a way to offset the amount of women that are impacted by Alzheimer's. And there's a lot of there's a lot of nuance to that, because it's it has to do with many different factors associated with brain disease. One is definitely hormones, as you guys probably all know. But the other is, you know, just the impact of caregiving stress and muscle mass and the ability to dispose of glucose correctly through that the muscle mass, women typically don't have as much muscle mass and seem to have higher rates of certain insulin resistance type syndromes. And we're gaging as a population. So the population at large is just growing older and older and older, you know, with the baby boomers, which I am one of them. And so by the by the end of 2060 94, million people will be over the age of 65 and this is concerning in a number of ways. One is workforce. Two is disease state, and three is the impact that it's going to have on Alzheimer's disease. It's going to have a huge impact. So researchers are looking at a number of different ways to try and re, re, look at, and readdress the condition of dementia. And I like how these guys put it, and what they're talking about is, in this last line here, the optimization of brain energetic should become a key component in future strategies for preventing and treating dementia. So we haven't been focused on that at all as a as a medical community, we've been focused primarily on removing tau or increasing acetylcholine or sedating or things like that and just watching and waiting and really not doing anything to improve the overall brain energetics. Alzheimer's disease is also grown at 140% it's increased by 140% over the last 20 years. That's significant. Heart heart disease, stroke and HIV have all decreased, and yet, because of the aging population and many other things, the stress levels that we've been incurring Alzheimer's disease is increased by 140% but it's not just an old person's disease anymore. In fact, the Blue Cross, Blue Shield, I presented this maybe a couple years ago to the group, and I Blue Cross and Blue Shield came back and said that there was in their registry of Alzheimer's disease, there was a 407% increase in Alzheimer's disease, diagnosed Alzheimer's disease in 30 to 44 year olds. So this reminds me a lot of the old adage that used to be called adult onset diabetes. You remember that it used to be, you know, we would have, you didn't get that diabetic condition until you were older, and now we just call it type two diabetes, because the young kids are even getting it. This is really reminiscent of that same story. We're starting to see disease processes occurring earlier and earlier in life spans, and Alzheimer's disease is one of them. So we know that Alzheimer's disease basically occurs 20 to 30 years before starts its initiation process, well before any of the symptoms even start to occur. So preclinical ad is something that is happened or has been brewing for probably 10 to 15 years previous. So we have to, we have to become more acute and more aware as we start to look through the lens of how we're assessing our patients. Everybody's at risk for this condition, and everybody needs to know what their risk profile looks like, whether it's familial or it's dietary, or it's sedentary lifestyle, or it's insulin resistance, or there's other factors that are playing a role in perturbating the brain structures. Many of you probably have heard of Dale Bredesen. Dale Bredesen is a is kind of a figurehead in the work in Alzheimer's disease. And I like how he, I use this slide that he or this study that he, he published a while ago, because I think it really tells a story of how to look at Alzheimer's disease today. Alzheimer's disease is a Systems Network disorder, chronic stress, DYS homeostasis, innate immunity, and genetics, all these things play a role. And he has that saying that he likes to to say is that you can't, you can't if you've got 36 holes in your roof, and you patch one, you still have a bunch of holes in the roof. And that's Alzheimer's disease. There's many, many things that are impacting Alzheimer's disease, other than just simply having too much beta amyloid or tau phosphorylation. We also know that the drug trials are not giving or yielding any significant results. In fact, FDA advisors recently, in 2021 we've many of you probably knew this, but they resigned over the approval of the recent monoclonal adelhelm drug, and because they did not find any benefit and they found significant risk. And yet, the FDA continued to push that drug through and authorized it to be okay for prescription. And the cost is exorbitant. It's $56,000 per year. It requires multiple MRIs to look for brain swelling, and many people don't even respond to even an inkling of improvement. So this drug is really kind of somewhat useless in the fight against Alzheimer's disease. Another piece of the puzzle is that we're seeing Alzheimer's disease, maybe through the wrong lens, and what we should be looking at is early markers, or early detection things like depression, because depression seems to be a early sign, an early marker, an early way for us to start to scratch our head and think that, hey, maybe this person has some type of underlying pathophysiology that's that's increasing their rate of Anhedonia and lethargy and depressive mood disorders, and we also know that depression rates have gone really high over the course of the last 1520 years, but over the course of since the pandemic, we're starting to see rates rise and rise and rise till we're almost at 30% have had a episode of depression, and this is up significantly from the years before. So we really need to start thinking through this risk profile when we see our patients, we also know that the metabolic systems in the body of Americans is absolutely pitiful. Only 7% of the American adults have any would even qualify as having good cardio metabolic health. 7% that means that 93% are chronically ill health. I

Speaker 7  30:24
and we know that the obesity epidemic is also playing a major role, and this is also goes right, ties right into the cardio metabolic conditions that we see. We know that when people start to accumulate visceral adipose tissue amongst in their belly, this this starts to increase low levels of inflammation that decrease the hippocampal volume, the area in your brain that causes you to have memory, and it starts to shrink as a result, a direct result of having too much adipose tissue. Adipose tissue is a endocrine organ that secretes many active substances that have biological perturbations that will affect your overall health and and decrease your your your brain volume. So women that have a member women have lot more Alzheimer's than men. Women that end up with waist to hip ratios that are out of whack, have a 39 almost a 40% increase in dementia within the next 15 years. And when does this happen? This happens at the peak time of usually right around menopause. So these women are not only do they have some hormonal imbalances, but they also start to have brain imbalances and weight imbalances. You know, when I was going through school, I was always, this is 30 plus years ago. It always, it always, I always scratch my head and go, Why? Why do why is depression more common? Why is heart disease more common with depression? And I never and and I never lost sight of that, and I was wondering, why? Why? Why? Why? Well, depression is a chronic condition inside of many chronic illnesses, things like diabetes, the prevalence of depression is 30% how many people are diabetic or pre diabetic? So that number that we saw with the lifetime prevalence of 19 or 29% that probably fits right in line with the level of diabetes that are is occurring in our society. Cancer is another one, heart disease, another major increase in depressive rates and stroke increases depression rates. Now, what do all these conditions have in common? They have inflammation, and we know that when you have too much inflammation, you start to exude all these, these cytokines and these, these inflammatory molecules that start to turn on cellular pathways, that excite that start to elaborate enzymes, things like matrix metalloproteinase nine. Now matrix MMP nine, you guys are probably are well aware of, is the thing that actually causes the plaques to rupture in our arteries. That's what's brewing inside the core of that that lipid raft, and that mm p9 starts to degrade the collagen cap, and that collagen cap then when, when it becomes too thin and ruptures, spills out all those nasty, pro inflammatory cytokines and molecules, and your immune system goes nuts, and you end up with a mi or a stroke. Well, this same thing happens at a low level, and it also occurs at the blood brain barrier. And the blood brain barrier is this tight, really highly regarded area that keeps bad things out of your brain and the good things in your brain. Now, when you have low grade inflammation, MMP, nine levels go way up, and this disrupts the blood brain barrier. And this just having a slight disruption in your blood brain blood brain barrier will start to increase the level of neuro inflammation, which changes the entire neurochemistry in your brain that leads to the signs and symptoms that we describe as depression. Now this doesn't have to be like a massive infection or anything like that. This could be just too much adipose tissue secreting too much inflammatory molecules that turn on in the p9 with this background tone that starts to cause a leaky brain. So chronic inflammation plays a major role in depression. And you know, if you look at the work of Andrew Miller out of Emory, he talks about inflammation decreases neurotransmitter production, increases neurotransmitter uptake. And what do we do to those people? We give them a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor? Well, they can't even make it, and they're taking up too much of it, so they're no wonder it doesn't work. And perhaps we should be looking at inflammatory markers before, and many studies have looked at this whether or not people are going to be responders or non responders. With regard to SSRI therapy, do they have too much inflammation? And if they do, perhaps we should be modulating that before we actually use any other interventions. So low grade inflammation is very impactful on the brain, and it causes depression. It increases the peripheral and central pro inflammatory cytokines, and it decreases the anti inflammatory regulatory system. The anti inflammatory regulatory system is the system that is is elaborated secondary to the amount of omega three fatty acids that we have. These are known as the specialized pro resolving mediators. These are big news right now. A lot of people are trying to figure out how to how to purify these and concentrate them, to deliver them. The best way to do it is actually to improve your Omega three status in every cell of your body, so that you can reduce the influence inflammatory tone, and you can maintain the anti inflammatory regulation. Once this starts, you get a chronic activation of the innate immune systems in in the brain. These are called the glia microglia and astroglia and these turn on a whole host of inflammatory molecules to try and survey, regulate and clean up any debris that could be incurred in the brain. This all results in what we might classically call Alzheimer's disease pathology, which you see secondary to, you know, an autopsy. Well, stress also plays a major role, a big role, a huge role. And over the course of the last 45 years, secondary to the pandemic and some of the things that have taken place, stress has been very, very pronounced in the society that we live in, and we can only expect to see the impact of that in the neurological system, and we've already seen it with the suicide rate. So stress is more risky. You have more risk. There's more dementia risk with high stress than there is with vascular dementia. It's it's 233% higher risk versus 120% higher risk, and it also shrinks your brain so the higher the stress level, the higher the cortisol, the more hippocampal volume loss. So this is a this is something that really struck me when I want to put this slide together. It was. It was where this spike occurred. The hockey stick is occurring right at the pandemic. This is drug overdoses now in in in a world that you've got social isolation, you've got dictatory oversight on everything you do, whether you work, whether you're considered a a business that should be working, whether or not you're able to go see your family members, you can't even express yourself. Yeah, you're wearing a mask. You can't see the expressions. All these things impact how we live, acting and and behave. And part of the abnormal behaviors is sick, is use of drugs, is trying to escape, and the drug overdose is has reached an all time high. We're over 100,000 people that are dying annually right now of drug overdose at a very, at a very, you know, during that time frame. So the 2024, findings in mental health were pretty bleak. I mean, we saw when, when you see 5% of the US adults that literally report that they actually were thinking about killing themselves, and 13% of the youth were thinking about killing themselves this we've got to start to take notice here, and this is in all likelihood secondary to some of the neurological systems that are going awry, whether it's a leaky brain or it's not having enough anti inflammatory components in the cells to offset some of these major inflammatory burdens that many of the people are having, or it's a chronic condition that is being left untreated or exacerbated secondary to all the pandemic restrictions that we had. It's all going it's all something that we should be I'm sure we're all paying attention to now,

Speaker 7  40:03
this is, this is something that I really think is going to start to take. This is, to me, the bridge between functional medicine and clinical science. And this is Caleb Finch. Caleb Finch is out of USC. He's, he's an ApoE four expert, and Caleb has been studying the brain and lipid and all that for a long time, but he also studies the environment, and he he's looking at this concept of the Alzheimer's disease exposome. And the exposome is a measure of all the environmental exposures a person experiences throughout their lifetime and how those exposures impact their health. It includes both internal and external exposures from conception to death. We know that the world that we live in is becoming more and more unique to our immune systems. We have a lot of new to nature molecules. We have all sorts of molecules that are in our drinking water, our food, our air, everywhere, whether it's the clothes that we're wearing or that it's the the the personal care products that we're using that are putting on our skin, these are all part of the exposome, and they all impact our overall biology. And the exposome was originally kind of conceived and looked at through the lens of cancer when they were looking at exposure versus genes in this gene exposure interaction, and it's the same concept that's being looked at now in through the lens of Alzheimer's disease and neurodegenerative conditions, this isn't anything new, though, because, if you really think about it, Bruce McEwen from NYU or Columbia, maybe I think he's from Columbia. He's dead now, but he he really called this the allostatic load. It's all these environmental stressors, the trauma, the abuse, the life, major life events, these all manifest as a load of sorts, a allostatic load, and how we adapt to it. Some people are very resilient and can adapt to these things. Some people aren't, and much of that has to do with the overall exposome. So once we start to engage the stress response, the HPA Axis gets turned on. It starts to increase cortisol output, and that automatically starts to down tune or dysregulate the glucocorticoid receptor, and that glucocorticoid receptor, then it just like an insulin receptor is no longer receiving the message. So we get impaired negative feedback, although we still have hyper cortisol conditions, and this decreases the response to glucocorticoids. And the reason we want we don't want that, Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  43:03
hello, are we there?

Speaker 7  43:10
We don't want that is because the glucocorticoids help to dampen inflammation. They also, once we get in this hypercortisol state, it starts to change the way in which we secrete the neurotrophins in our brain. Things like BDNF get suppressed, and we end up having a lack of neurogenesis, or new brain or new nerve growth. So in addition to all this, having an infection with Alzheimer's or an infection with COVID can exacerbate or or greatly enhance the rate in which you start to develop Alzheimer's disease, secondary to all those things I just mentioned. So I'm going to, I hope that gives you a little sense of kind of where things are and what's going on, and how we should probably maybe look at the world as it relates to the coming epidemic. I'm going to move into DHA now, and you're going to see this slide a couple of times, because I want you to remember it DHA and lutein. There's no RDI for either one of these nutrients, and yet they're so essential for our health, they're foundational. They're fundamental. Everybody should have plenty of these nutrients in their diet for a lot of reasons, and we'll go over some of those. So the DHA is considered an essential fatty acid. These are the essential fatty acids. The essential fatty acids are fatty acids that you can't make. We break them up into the Omega sixes and the Omega threes. Omega sixes are primarily the pro inflammatory. They're kind of considered the bad ones, although they're not necessarily bad, they're just more pro inflammatory. And then we have the Omega threes, which are considered anti inflammatory, and they produce things like pro resolving mediators and resolving some protectants and neuroprotectins and marrisons. These pro resolving mediators are something that are going to be in the limelight here very shortly, and are already gaining quite a bit of attention, and yet they're all derived. They're all derived from these fatty acids, these essential fatty acids. So arachidonic acid gets a bad name because it is part of the inflammatory cascade, but yet it produces a small amount of resolving, pro resolving mediator called lipoxins, EPA produces the E serie resolvins, and DHA produces the D series and the protectants and neuroprotectins. The neuroprotectins are the ones that I think are really important for brain health. So specialized pro resolving mediators are enzymatically derived from essential fatty acids to serve as a novel class of immuno resolvents that limit acute response and orchestrate the clearance of tissue pathogens dying cells and debris from the battlefield of infection and inflammation. So these turn down these, these start to modulate and really start to turn down the overwhelming amount of inflammation. And you have to have these in your cell membrane, the DHA in order for you to initiate that process. The vast majority of the patients that I saw the vast majority, and I'm sure the vast majority of the patients you're seeing do not have adequate levels of the Omega threes in their cell membranes. Thus they end up with insufficiency and anti inflammatory insufficiencies secondary to the pro resolvents. So DHA is a component in our brain. It makes up 97% of the omega three fatty acids in the brain, and 93% of the omega three fatty acids in the eye. So it's a really important structural component and membrane component. DHA, it acts in a number of different ways. It can down regulate the glutamate receptor activity. Glutamate is an is considered an exciton neurotoxin when it's at too high levels, although it's essential, it's that it's the most prominent neurotransmitter that we have in our brain, and yet, when it gets out of control, it can really cause a lot of damage to our brain cells, and particularly the astrocytes. So DHA also stimulates neuronal cell growth, and so it helps to protect the cell and actually improve stem cell production in the brain, and it regulates the pro inflammatory mediators like NF, kappa B and the inflammatory Acosta noise and kind of it puts a damper, like I said, through the pro resolving mediators, through the thromboxanes and leukotrienes that get elaborated secondary to too much inflammation. So it's, it's kind of a guard, if you will, in the brain, for reducing the amount of inflammation. So having a lot of it is really important. There's many ways you can actually start to develop neuroinflammation, and some of the stuff has to do with your fluid in your brain. And we know that aquaporin four, which is a is a pore that actually gets elaborated and starts to increase you, increase your level, your expression of aquaporin four as a result of all sorts of different things, brain trauma, too much, alcohol, aging will increase your aquaporin four levels, and it's also found significantly higher in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease and frontal temporal dementia compared to normal non neurodegenerative patients. We also know this is from Yale. This just came out a couple months ago, that polyunsaturated fatty acids improve the blood brain barrier and reduce depressive disorders by restoring aquaporin four levels. So docohecinolic acid in particular, prevents aquaporin four elevations that are caused by binge alcohol consumption. Reduces cerebral edema, and it modulates the actual gene expression, so it's speaking to your genes. Aquaporin four is a, one of the, one of the mechanisms that I don't hear a lot of talk about when it when we're talking about brain health. I hear a lot of talk about some of the other blood brain barrier mechanisms, but aquaporin four is one that I'm not hearing a lot of noise about. And when I saw this article, and I kind of keep track of it, I was very encouraged to see that the DHA had a very impactful result on aquaporin foreign levels. Now, I talked earlier about the fidelity of the cell. The fidelity of the cell is based on the cell membrane fluidity. The cell membrane fluidity is based on your your DHA levels. So the more DHA you have in a cell, the better, the more adaptable that cell is to various various signals, ligands that will allow that cell to become more responsive to all sorts of different signals. This is very important so that you don't have to over produce any one signal to try and get the message through, or you don't become resistant to it. If the cell is stiff and unreceptive and non flexible, then you don't have that same fidelity. And it's the membranes that really control this. And so having DHA is essential for proper cell fluidity and fidelity membrane levels of docohenoic acid and essential omega three fatty acid are decreased in common neuropsychiatric disorders. DHA modulates key cell membrane properties like fluidity, thereby affecting the behavior of transmembrane proteins like G coupled proteins. This is in relationship if, as we all know, the dopamine receptors are highly involved in some of the schizophrenic conditions that have the people are are being treated for. And so could it be that somebody's not responding to their schizophrenic schizophrenic medication, secondary to not having a self fluidity up to speed. Could it be, and could it be also that maybe, perhaps the Autistic Spectrum Disorder child may also have that same thing, because Jill James, years ago, clearly showed that G coupled proteins were involved in autism, and the retinoic receptors was one of them that she was really focused on. But there's this, this, there's this, there's this notion that DHA needs to be very well involved in the cell membranes in order for the G couple proteins to do their job, and this has to do with psychiatric conditions in autism. So DHA is also involved in, you know, looking at depression, and depression is not just like there's no blood test that you could run for depression, right? You can't run a blood test. There's no blood test that I know of that that can diagnose any psychiatric condition. So we work off symptoms. And so when we do that, it makes it a little more difficult to kind of quantify things. What's interesting about DHA is, the higher the levels, the lower the depressive rate in people that had depression. So as they started to give these folks higher levels. And by the way, look down here at the bottom. It's two grams of DHA per day. It's not 500 milligrams, it's not EPA, it's not GLA it's two grams, 2000 milligrams of DHA per day.

Speaker 7  53:46
And that's, that's, that's a big takeaway. People need to have enough in order for it to work. Now, they only ran this study for 16 weeks, but as we'll see, it takes a lot longer of treatment to actually start to make the brain turn up, to improve brain DHA levels. We also know that the this is from Ernie Shaffer's work out of Framingham study. This is the I looked this up the other day. I was just thinking, I go How long has a framing hand study been going on? 75 years. The Framingham study has been ongoing for 75 years, and I got to meet Ernie Schaefer, I don't know, 10 years ago, I was, I used to do a lot of the Boston heart testing, and they flew me back over to I was one of the top prescribers of the Boston heart test, and they wanted to train me, and I Ernie was there. He's the he's the head of the Boston heart lab, and great guy. What a history that guy's got. And what he did is he's got all these samples, and he looked at the level of DHA and the the level of Alzheimer's disease or dementia, and he found that the people that had the highest levels of DHA in their blood had the lowest levels of Alzheimer's and dementia by 47% now go back to that slide that I showed you, that none of the drugs worked. And I also said that this is a long latency condition. This condition starts 2530, years previous to this. This is something, if we want to do something to prevent brain disease, we should be doing this at the very outset. This is a foundational construct that needs to be employed in every single one of your patients in order for them to have a healthy brain and a healthy outcome down the road. So another person that I really have high esteem for is Hussein Yaseen, out of USC, and he's at the Keck School of Medicine, and he's done all sorts of elaborate studies on DHA turnover in the brain and tissue, and what it really takes to actually increase your your how you can increase your accretion rate of DHA into the brain. And he's done all the pharmacokinetics on it. And his takeaway is, and he he blasts pretty much every study that does not follow the guidelines that have been proven to work, which is, you need to use two grams per day of DHA in order for you to actually have any impact on the brain, even though the saturation point is hit on in the plasma phospholipids At six weeks, you still need to maintain that that level in order for you to have enough DHA available for brain turnover. Brain turnover is very slow. It takes two and a half years for the brain to recon, reconsolidate, or recon recon have more DHA incorporated into the brain tissue. So that's another takeaway. Two and a half years, two grams. And it's not just two and a half years, it's indefinite. So I put you should be using two grams of DHA for the rest of your life. So the bottom line is, omega three fatty acids are essential and play an important role throughout our life, and critical modulators of neuronal function, regulation of oxidative stress mechanisms in the brain and disease. Cross sectional and prospective cohort data have demonstrated that reduced dietary intake or low brain levels of DHA are associated with accelerated cognitive decline or the development of incipient dementia, including ad, take your DHA. Now we're going to move to lutein. Lutein is another really awesome substance, awesome material, and there's no RDI for it, and we don't get that much of it. And look at most people get less than 100 milligrams of DHA, the average intake for lutein is only two milligrams. So we are not getting enough of this. This is where supplementation absolutely comes in, because you just, you just could. You literally can't eat enough fish to get that DHA unless you are in an Eskimo up in the Inuit island somewhere, you would you just aren't going to get it. And they eat whale blubber. So lutein comes from a number of different sources, green leafy vegetables, broccoli, lettuce, and there's when you start to look at the the NHANES studies, you're seeing that there's also a very strong diminishment in the level of lutein and zeaxanthin, in the in the vegetables that we're eating now, because of the farming techniques, the agro farming there, we're getting less and less and less of these. And a lot of people won't even eat enough to get adequate amounts. And if you cook them, you denature it. So supplementation is, I think, is absolutely essential for these both DHA and lutein. Now we know lutein and zeaxanthin are very well conserved in the eye and the macula is that little, that little pigment area in the back of your eye where you get the central vision, that is the highest concentration of lutein and zeaxanthin and meso zeaxanthin. And these are areas that are that are well studied. And I like to use John Dowling's book here as a as a way for us to start to rethink the retina and the retina the name of his textbook that he teaches ophthalmology residents with. Below that, it says an approachable part of the brain. The retina is brain tissue, and so if we see all this macular pigment in the retina, might we find it also in the brain? And indeed we do, and perhaps that's why the eyes are the window of the soul, because what we're about to see is that the macular pigment, optical density concentrations, reflect directly into the brain, or are in the brain and represent macular content in the brain. And this is what all of us should be considering looking you know, there's no I was trying to do a clinical trial up here at the University UNR med school, and we got completely stalled because nobody in this town had a flicker photometry device that we could use to quantify the level of macular pigment, optical density. It's not even looked at. They can look at it through a retinal scan, but they can't quantify it. They can see that it's there, but what you're really trying to do is, how much is there Mac lutein is is highly absorbed in in the brain, and it's so in lutein, we don't get that much in our diet, very little in our diet, right? Less than two milligrams. But if you look at the large column right here, you can see that it is highly absorbed, and it's highly absorbed into retinal tissue and brain tissue, more so than any of the other carotenoids that we see. Lutein is a fat soluble carotenoid. So it goes, it goes, it's really, it's, it's nice to have that fat soluble carotenoid in the brain tissue. It's also many of us know this, but it's used to block blue light, and it acts as a a protector of the retinal cells in the macula and when blue light hits it from our screens or from the sunlight, it causes an oxidation response, and it burns up that lutein. So we need more. We need to continually replace it. We don't make it. We have to get it. And the more light exposure we get, the blue light spectrum, the more we burn up. Lutein sits in a in a very unique position in the cell of of of the of our cells, and it's a trans membrane, meaning it crosses the entire membrane structure, and it modulates a whole bunch of really important things like cell fluidity and integrity. So if you look at people that have high levels of macular pigment, optical density, and then you cross triangulate that to their myelin, they have much better myelin too. They it structurally improves myelin integrity and it modulates all these microtubules in the Neuronal Structures. It helps to improve gap junctions. That's just in the brain, but in the eye, it acts as this short wave light filtration, and it causes you to actually not scatter the light and

Speaker 7  1:03:21
be able to see very clearly with with adequate amounts of the macular pigment optical density. You know, another thing to keep in mind too is the lens of the eye also is impacted by lutein levels. So if you're seeing a lot of people, or if you're you yourself, are starting to develop some of the cataracts, you should probably be looking at a lutein supplement. Lutein is found in the brain in very specific areas at high concentrations. These are areas that are associated with learning, and they're high energy areas, so the frontal cortex, the auditory cortex, the hippocampal area, the occipital cortex, these are all sensory cortexes and or thinking cortexes that are highly energetic. Now remember when the first thing I one of the first slides I showed you is we need to start looking at the energetics of the brain as a way to improve ad risk? Well, yeah, Blue team would be one of the ways to do that. So macular pigments macular Coronavirus are deposited into areas of the brain associated with learning and also vulnerable to oxidative stress. I

Speaker 7  1:04:43
m, p, O, D, is called is, is the acronym for macular pigment optical density. And macular pigment, optical density is a way for us to look at the level of macular pigment in the eye and then confer that that same pigment or that same level is in the brain, because there's there, there is a ton of evidence now that shows that when you improve macular pigment optical density, you improve brain macular pigment density as well. And again, this goes back to structural integrity, antioxidant protection, cell fluidity, all those things that support proper brain health, dietary lutein and zeaxanthin increase macular increased macular pigment, optical density in six of the Seven clinical trials. This is a review and significantly improved most of the cognitive function studied a wide variety of tests and methodologies for measuring cognitive cognitive function were observed, memory, processing speed, attention reasoning were the cognitive function significantly related to macular pigment, optical density in adults. In other words, the higher the level was, the better their brain worked, the better, the better their brain looked on MRI, they had better structural integrity. We also know that there is a relationship between the leading cause of blindness, macular pig, or age related macular degeneration and macular pigment. So we know that, and that if you start to see AMD, you should also be concerned about the higher risk factors associated with dementia and Alzheimer's. So lutein accumulates in sub cellular regions of the brain and is associated inversely with oxidation. So the higher the lutein levels, the lower the oxidation is in the brain. And this is significant because it co localizes in the inner mitochondrial membrane where there's a lot of free radical activity, and it sits right next to docohexano acid DHA. It protects docohexano acid in the brain from being oxidized. Long chain fatty acids like DHA are highly susceptible to oxidation, so in order for that cell, fluidity in that cell to maintain its integrity, you have to have somebody next to it, or something next to it to put out the fire. If you don't, you end up with an oxidative or a lipid peroxide that you don't want. That lipid peroxide then incites all the immune activity secondary to a abnormal foreign substance, and your glial cells get activated. So excessive lipid peroxidation is a hallmark for most neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's ALS and many other neurological conditions. You know, the brain is composed mostly a fat, and that fat, when it becomes rancid or oxidized, becomes basically inert. It doesn't work. So we have to clean it up. The way we clean it up is we go in there with our microglia and astroglia, and we start to chew it up and eat it. I um, so this is one of a few studies, quite a few studies, that show that when you, when you supplement somebody, an older population, with lutein, and you don't give it to the other cohort, you have a randomized placebo controlled trial. Are there any impacts on brain or cognition? And this is the results on the right side here, so you can see that cognitive flexibility improves significantly with with lutein and zeaxanthin supplementation compared to the placebo. We also see that same thing with cognitive attention in the middle slide, and we also see the same thing with executive functioning. So lutein plays a major role in the ability for people to have better brain health and better functional brain health. This is Billy Hammond's work. Billy Hammond's been and Lisa Renzi. They're some of the top researchers in the field when it comes to macular pigment carotenoids. There's another one from Billy Hammond. This is a recent one. This has just got published maybe three months ago, four months ago, and they were looking at kids, and kids are at risk, right? So kids are at risk for developing brain conditions. We saw that Alzheimer's diseases might not be considered an old person's disease for very long because of the impact of the exposome perhaps, but what he found was the lutein zeaxanthin group showed significant increases in serum lutein levels, meaning it was absorbed reduced eye strain and fatigue and improved cognitive performance. This was focused episodic memory, learning, visual, spatial working memory at 90 days and 180 days compared to placebo. Further, lutein and zeaxanthin groups show significant increases in processing speed, attention, visual spatial processing and serum and serum zeaxanthin and BDNF levels were increased as well compared to placebo. So this is what you could expect if you were to start to take lutein, then they were doing 20 milligrams per day, slowly over time, macular pigment optical density goes up, so you're starting to see accrete within. Remember, it's fat soluble, so it gets stored in in your adipose tissue. It gets stored in your brain tissue, your retinal tissue, your skin adipose tissue. So it takes a little bit of time for all those tissues to accrete it and hold it. And this is a another this is from Stringham and his group. And what they found is that when you give Healthy People lutein and you look at their BDNF levels compared to placebos. On the right, the Healthy People once getting it, once not getting it, significantly increased their brain derived neurotrophic factors. So BDNF levels go directly or directly impacted by your lutein ingestion. This is supplementation. So this is taking 20 milligrams per day. Lutein also, as I said, gets stored in the skin, and it helps to protect your skin from UV radiation, so your minimal erythema dose gets increased secondary to having lutein in your skin. This is 20 milligrams a day for just for 12 weeks, and there was photo protection from UV radiation. Now this is something that I think is this. This always makes me just be in awe. Lutein supplementation impacts the complement system. And the complement system is what our immune system uses to orchestrate what they should get rid of or kill. And so at the very end of the complement system sits this thing called C, 5b, dash nine, or Mac, membrane attacks, complex. Membrane attack complex. This is what lysis the cell. So the higher that is, the more inflammation you have, and the more, the more cytokines you will start to see, elaborated secondary to that this, this complex is essential for our immune system to work, but gets out of hand in a number of different conditions. One is long COVID. So this just came out, this research article that you see at the top here. This is from science just in the I think it was in February this year, persistent compliment dysregulation with signs of thrombo inflammation and active long COVID. This article clearly shows that the Mac complex is elevated and overly active secondary to

Speaker 7  1:14:02
COVID. Long COVID, whether it's infection or it was the vaccine, and this persistent activation causes the thrombo inflammation, which leads to thromboembolism. And so here's what these guys did over in the Netherlands, they were looking at the impact of this on on the serum, whether or not Mac got decreased when you gave somebody lutein. So they had time zero here, and then they had a control group that didn't get it, which is rising. And then they had a treatment group down here that was lowering, and over the course of 12 months, there was a huge discrepancy in their Mac. Now, why would this be? Well, it turns out that lutein stored in the fat, and what does your fat produce? Produces a hell of a lot of compliment, and so we produce a lot of the complement from the adipose tissue. So as you recall, many of the COVID deaths were secondary to comorbid conditions. A lot of them had to do with obesity. So if we could, if you could do anything right now, load up on lutein to maintain your or to manage your compliment system. This is Peter McCullough, and he came out with Stephanie senneff A while ago. What was it October, just last month or this month? So he came out with this dietary recommendation of lutein. And his whole premise here was based on the anti inflammatory impact of lutein on your body. He didn't mention once the impact that it has on the Mac system or on the complement system. So he may not be aware of some of that research, because it probably wouldn't hit his radar screen if he didn't specifically look for it under through the lens of complement, but he's now recommending that people use dietary lutein for the viral injuries. So in summary, among the carotenoids, lutein and zeaxanthin are the only two that cross the blood brain barrier to form macular pigment in the eye. Lutein is the major carotenoid in the brain tissue. Lutein and zeaxanthin in the macular are found to be significantly correlated with their levels in in matched brain tissue. Remember, lutein in the eye represents lutein in the brain. That's that macular pigment. The higher it is in your eye, the higher it is in your brain, and the more you take, the more you will actually deposit in the macula, in your brain and in your in your tissue, so that you can control the inflammatory burden, macular pigment can be therefore, used as a biomarker for brain tissue. In fact, a significant correlation was found between macular pigment density and global cognition in healthy older adults. Lutein protects DHA from peroxidation, so they work together hand in hand, lutein and DHA and they protect one another. This is a study that showed that the Invert. I showed it earlier, but it's the inverse relationship between the amount of blue team that you find in in the brain tissue. If you have a lot, you have a lot less global peroxidation or inflammation, and it's found in the mitochondrial membrane, so it's basically sitting right where it needs to sit to protect DHA, this is a fairly recent study of 2022 and What they looked at this is it's the guy out of Ireland. He he was looking at interventions with the for Alzheimer's disease, and so he used to use fatty acids, omega threes, and wanted to see whether or not that would impact the along with carotenoids, whether that would impact people that already had Alzheimer's disease and indeed he did find that he found that there was improved memory with the active group over here, and there was. only problem I found with this trial was he used hardly any he didn't use enough DHA. He used one gram of fish oil, which contained 500 milligrams of DHA and 150 of EPA, 22 milligrams of the carotenoids lutein and meso, zeaxanthin and zeaxanthin and then vitamin E. So he didn't use enough of this and he didn't give it enough time. All I can say is, what, what would what would have happened had he used higher levels of the omega three fatty acids, the DHA, and gave it more time, perhaps even a better, more stronger result. Now you have to understand that, no, there's no treatment that even that touches Alzheimer's disease, nothing touches it pharmacologically. So having this as a as a result is very encouraging. Um, yeah, so that's, that's all I've got. I'm happy to answer any questions. I do. I do know that this is a CEU thing, and I do have, I could go into some products and stuff like that. If that's something that you're interested in,

Bill Clearfield  1:19:52
why don't we get some questions Mike and when, when we got that done, then we'll, we'll shut off our video, and then we can do products and stuff. Okay, sure. Okay, what was the dose of lutein used for the older population in children?

Speaker 7  1:20:12
So lutein is considered grass, generally recognized as safe. So the range that you'll see in the studies is anywhere from six milligrams on up to 40 to 60 milligrams.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:28
Okay, so it's in a lot of lot of supplements that we see what would a typical dose be?

Speaker 7  1:20:38
I've seen it all over the map. I've seen, you know, just small pixie dust, doses of milligram to, you know, larger doses in the 40s.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:51
Yeah. Okay. Dr, now you had the left. He usually gets the email questions for us, but we had a lecture a couple of weeks ago from fatty 15 folks.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:04
Oh yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:06
you know about that? They claim that it's the first new EPA or omega three fatty acid discovered in 90 years. You have any any thoughts on replacing DHEA with this?

Speaker 7  1:21:26
I don't, and I wouldn't. I wouldn't, necessarily it's it's a fairly low dose product, and it's also a fairly expensive product, and I've never seen one clinical trial on the impact on cell membranes ever and and I think you know, if they've got, if they've got something there, they're gonna, they're gonna have to really start working on developing a portfolio of science to support it. It, it might well work. But when you're dealing with with known substances like DHA, EPA, ALA, I think you're you're better served spending your money on those and managing that, as opposed to the something very new and novel like that. But I do think it, there's a potential that there's probably some validity to some of the claims.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:38
Next, can DHA predispose atrial fibrillation? Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:22:50
that's that's been in the news, right? So there is some, there is some, there's some research out there that says that you might have higher risks or have higher incidence of AFib secondary to omega three fatty acid intake. And I think it's a, I think I, I've looked at some of the research. I'm just not convinced. I'm just not, I just don't see, I mean, I think there's so many other factors that could be contributing to a irritable myocardium. So, yeah, okay, if you do start to have a fib, you would probably, you know, you want to, and that's the only thing you've changed. You You may, you know, check your levels and and determine whether or not that's it could be the, the true cause. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:54
can you OD on lutein?

Speaker 7  1:23:58
It's grass again, generally recognized as safe. So not that I'm aware of. I haven't seen the LD 50 on it, but it would be. I mean, you'd had spent a lot of money to try to do that. There's probably better ways to OD, but I'm not aware of any, I'm not aware of any toxicology reports that have shown lutein to be

Unknown Speaker  1:24:23
harmful. Okay?

Speaker 7  1:24:27
It reminds me of curcumin, right? Curcumin? I mean, you know, you could take a lot of curcumin, and I don't know if, I don't know, I don't even know if there is an LD 50 for curcumin.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:41
Okay, there are naysayers that maintain that lutein and zeaxanthin are ineffective. What would your why is your opinion different than theirs?

Speaker 7  1:24:50
I've never Well, I mean, they haven't read the research. They should start paying attention to what's, what's being put out there, because I have not seen, I mean, the research is really clear. In my eyes, I see that lutein is a very helpful substance in the brain. In the eye, it reduces, like I said, the compliment cascade. It manages that. It protects lipid peroxidation from occurring in the brain. It improves mood, mind and memory for both young and old. It helps to become more it makes your brain more efficient in the way it conducts its its energy. It's I'm not. I'm not seeing that at all. I don't know how, how, hopefully, some of this information gave you some insight into what's out there.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:41
I'm just asking the questions here, yeah, does it matter where the lutein comes from? The writer here says her supplement says it comes from marigolds, 10 milligrams per dose.

Speaker 7  1:25:54
Yeah, that's where most of it comes from. It's a It's comes from Marigold, and the key is to have a combination of lutein and zeaxanthin. So it's, it's the combination of the two we we have a four to one combination, which is the natural combination that you would see. It's a patented form. It's it's a, it's a, we use Luna Max, 2020,

Bill Clearfield  1:26:24
okay, and that's all the questions I have here. I have in the chat here, if you for the CME, there's the link there, and E, D, s.com/em/nine, 548, any, any. Wrap up there. Mike little summary, take home.

Speaker 7  1:26:51
Yeah. Well, listen, if you're not putting two grams of DHA in your body with lutein, you need to. You got to protect your brain. You got to protect your immune system. You got to protect your mitochondria. And the sooner you start it, the better you feel overall, and you will end up with a healthier brain long term.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:15
All right, okay, so those of us that didn't start till we were 70, is that too late? No,

Speaker 7  1:27:23
no, jump on it now. It's never too late, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:27:26
it's never too late. Okay, great. Okay, we'll talk about products in a minute here. Okay, alright, Mike, so thanks a lot, and we'll, we'll, we'll talk to you in a few minutes. Okay, okay, okay, okay, alright. So now the video is off. That'll be our CME for our CME credits. So you want to talk about some of your products here, brain bean and yeah, I'll

Speaker 7  1:27:55
just show you the one that I developed that's Are you seeing my screen still?

Bill Clearfield  1:28:03
No, seeing you? No, no, you're part of the hole here.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:07
Okay, let

Unknown Speaker  1:28:08
me share the screen again.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:10
Let's see It's See, pull this up.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:22
Okay, how about now?

Unknown Speaker  1:28:25
Yeah, okay,

Speaker 7  1:28:32
so I developed this product quite a few years ago, and it's called Brain omega, and it has the high dose DHA 460, milligrams per serving, which is two very small soft gels along with the luta Max 2020, and it has that contains 10 milligrams of lutein and five two milligrams of zeaxanthin. And I developed it in a small capsule. They're about the size of a raisin, so that kids could take it. Because, as you saw, kids are definitely impacted by low lutein levels and also low DHA levels. So I wanted to make sure that I had something that would be available for children to swallow, you know, as young as three, four, so and they wouldn't gag on it. This isn't a horse bill at all. These are very small little pearls, and it's, it's an IFOs oil, meaning that it's registered with the International fish oil Association. It's in the triglyceride form. We do pre and post testing on everything that we bring into our plant, and this has had consistently, even after, I don't know. We've got retention samples now that are six years old we sent in. It's consistently very low in lipid peroxides. I mean, in fact, hardly even noticeable. You can't even detect them. They're below detectable limits most of the time. So our lipid peroxide levels are extremely low. It's in a coated capsule, a naturally coated capsule with carob and it to keep the sunlight out so that you won't get any degradation of the mega three fatty acids or the lutein in it works extremely well. It's easy to easy to administer. It comes 180 capsules per bottle, if any doctors out there are looking to set up a a wholesale account. Just contact me direct, or contact our company, and we've got wholesale accounts that go all over then we can get you set up. I'd like to also remind people that you need to have adequate levels of B vitamins in order for you to absorb the actual omega three fatty acids. You have to, these have to be methylated. So I have an act I developed an active methyl B complex that has high potency B vitamins in it, in a pretty healthy dose. I mean, it's got a good, nice, big, giant bolus in there. So if you're going to be using omega threes, you should also be using some sort of a methylated B complex. And I've got a bunch of other things too, obviously. On the website, you can visit our website@brainbeam.com and check things out. I got things for the immune system. I have things for leaky gut. I've got a really cool collagen peptide. I've got some I've got one for glutathione, the NAC glycine, high potency that you drink, for restoration of glutathione. I got another one that has real high two grams of taurine in a drink mix, along with make three types of magnesium, some ribose tastes great. I drink it every day, twice a day, so I've got stuff that you can use is, you know, almost like refreshments. I also I at my plant, I have my own coffee roaster. So I have a huge industrial roaster for for making my own coffee or roasting my own coffee. So brain bean is literally a coffee that I roast from Guatemala, a single estate, organic coffee. That's unbelievable. It tastes really good. And I have another coffee that I infused with Alpha GPC for acetylcholine, l theanine from green tea for alpha wave activity. And I've coated with coat the beans, the whole beans, with some MCTC eight oil. And I put sensor or ashwagandha in there too, and so you can grind that up and brew it up in the morning and get your zen blend on. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:08
Contact for you, Mike,

Speaker 7  1:33:11
you can email me at M Nelson at brain, dash bean.com

Bill Clearfield  1:33:24
Okay, did I get that right? M Nelson at brain, dash bean.com Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  1:33:29
can actually throw it in the chat if you want. I

Bill Clearfield  1:33:35
Okay, think I got it there. Okay, somebody asked if you're on full scripts.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:43
Here we are. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:33:44
there you go.

Speaker 7  1:33:45
Yeah, is that? Was that whole scripts or full scripts that we're on? The one with zymogen,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:52
that's whole scripts. Yeah, okay, okay, there you go. Okay, all right, terrific, Mike as always, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:34:03
well, thank you for having me, and I wish everybody a healthy brain worth

Bill Clearfield  1:34:09
the wait. Wish you a health, a healthy existence also. So thank you. Okay, and tell us where not to go to eat. So that doesn't happen to the rest of us. Was that low here in town, or is it?

Unknown Speaker  1:34:25
Yeah, no

Speaker 7  1:34:26
comment, no comment on where it was, just because hotels, everybody gets a second chance.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:32
Yeah? Okay, it happens. Thank

Unknown Speaker  1:34:34
you. Dr Nelson,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:35
okay, you're welcome.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:37
That was excellent. Thank you so much. Okay, thank

Unknown Speaker  1:34:39
you.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:40
Thank you, doctor. And you want to tell everyone about your upcoming international, you know, extravaganza.

Speaker 3  1:34:53
Thank you so much, everyone. Thank you. Dr tilletfield, first of all, I will thank some of you who joined our webinar on September 27 and I think I hope that this was helpful, and by now everybody should have received a certificate from the Academy. Please let us know if so, if you have not received it yet, but as far as I know, everybody got it by now. There's another major event is coming. Starts approaching November, 8 and ninth, our third international conference on the topic of the world of homeopathy and integrative medicine, past present and future medicine. So I would like to invite you to come to join us as a speaker or attendees. And that would be, actually, it's going to be a mega conference. I'm expecting. We have many scholars who are graduating as well, and I would like you guys to be part of it. So we need some speakers. If you would like to join us, I truly appreciate that so and it's on Zoom, as always, it's virtual. And so we can, if you'd like to have more information, please just go to our official website and get more information.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:17
We'll post it on our mailings. Okay, from now until, yes, until the event. Okay, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:36:25
okay, thank you so,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:30
so thank you. And conference

Speaker 3  1:36:32
also is a certified conference, so whoever joined it gets a certificate, or whoever wants to have a continued education, it's going to, it's going to be counted as a continue education.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:43
There you go. So I'll be there. I'll be I'm branching out. I'll be doing my thyroid talk, and we will be you discussing homeopathic remedies for thyroid disorders. So looking forward to that. And anybody else have any? Is John one tonight. I didn't see him. Doctor Quinn, do you have any? Are you still here? Is he going to Okay. So Saturday mornings there, there's a there's a small group that's been meeting at noon or Eastern nine, nine Pacific, discussing some research opportunities. So if anybody's interested in that, let me know, and we'll make sure we get you hooked up with them. They've been meeting for a few weeks now, and I'm sort of only in the periphery here. So Dr Quinn is the sort of the spearhead here, and Dr Burgess is he's not been well the last few weeks. He's part of that too. So I don't, didn't see him here tonight, like I said, Dr zarens, bio quantum Academy, November 8 and ninth, next week. October 30 to November 2. I think that November 3 in Salt Lake City. I'll be there. I'm talking about longevity. And it's the age management Medical Group, ammg, it's not as big as a 4m but there it's a lot more cozy, so it's a lot more not as frenetic. So if anybody's interested in that, let me know. If you need then it's 20.75 or four, five. Ama CME credits. Also we can get two CME credits for tonight's talk. The link is right here, and we put it on, it's, it's, it'll be on the on the email every week, the link is right here. It's always this link here, and then the number is the that's this week's lecture. It's about five questions, answer, answer, and put in your ID. It's $30 for two AMA, category one CME credits, and you get a certificate right away. Especially it's coming towards the end of the year, if you need AMA, if you need CME credits, it's, this is an easy way to go. And every week on the email that we have a whole list of the lectures from from April on, there was, there was a time in the middle of the summer where there was, it was off. There's probably about 10 lectures there that are. Ama CME, credit available, I'm working on DOS, but you know me and them, we kind of don't get along, so that's unfortunate for them. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Steve Stefan, you got anything for us? No, I'm good. Okay, and you're going to Germany when

Speaker 5  1:39:55
I'm going to Italy on the 13th for the conference.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:59
Okay, okay, yeah, so Stefan's going to the, the Italian functional medicine conference, right? Yeah, in Rome. Yeah. Sounds exciting. So, okay, so good stuff. And we want, we want you to report back?

Speaker 5  1:40:13
Yeah, I will. I'll let you know how it is and whether it's all in Italian. Other than Gersh is lecture. We'll see.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:19
Okay, it's Dr Gersh lectures in it going to be an Italian.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:22
She doesn't speak Italian, as far as I know, right? Okay, I'm

Bill Clearfield  1:40:25
going to ask her. I'll find out. Okay, speaking of Dr gershmer, we had her on a couple of weeks ago. She's on Instagram on Thursday nights. She does a sort of a live like 20 minute. It's more geared towards patients. It's not really, you know, it's, it's, it's not really technical medical stuff. But some of them are fun. They're kind of interesting. She does all sorts of crazy things, like estradiol, her skin skin care, skin cream on her face and all. So

Speaker 5  1:40:56
I follow her on Instagram. She was actually pretty vocal the other day about cycling estradiol, and she actually said, you need a woman to have a period of post menopausal. Well, she actually said it, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:07
I know. I actually had one person call me and wants to do that. So when I figure out how, exactly how to do that, I'll get there. So most of I asked a few of my patients, and none of them want that, you know, and once they're done, they seem to want to be done. Nobody said, Yeah, I want to do that again. So, so, but, you know it is what it is. Okay? Um, anybody else? Doug, you got anything for us? No, okay, all right, everybody? Um, thank you so much for being here as always and like, what do I always say, Bring one person. We'll double our census. So we're a little bit light tonight. Um, thanks, Mike again, if you're still on and we'll, we'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and if you're, you know, email me, send me a message if you're interested in the research group and I'll get you their their contact information. Okay, thank you so much.

Speaker 6  1:42:08
Thank you. Great, really enjoyed it.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai