Speaker 1  00:25
And that. Good Evening.

Bill Clearfield  01:01
There. How are you having the time of my life? And you good very happy to have you with us.

Unknown Speaker  01:10
Thank you. Wait to hear

Bill Clearfield  01:13
your message here.

Unknown Speaker  01:15
So fantastic.

Bill Clearfield  01:18
You know we're gonna we're a bunch, we're a bunch of old Fuddy duddies here. So it's nice to have somebody young and vibrant, right?

Unknown Speaker  01:26
You didn't know I was 84 kidding, my line, it's your line. That's awesome. Yeah, if I say I'm 84 I'm looking smoking hot,

Speaker 2  01:39
right? Getting, I'm getting, you know, 84 is not that old anymore. That's the problem here, right? I know you're out there.

Speaker 3  01:51
So, you know I'm here and I'm not old.

Bill Clearfield  01:57
I was talking to John Burgess. I know you're not old,

Unknown Speaker  02:02
just chronologically, not otherwise,

Bill Clearfield  02:06
I did that age the age test, which was the one a diagnostic age test. Yes, they told me my telomeres, I was 55 Wow, almost 72 so I think that's pretty good, pretty darn good. I'm not sure. I'm really not sure. The one thing, the one thing that they said was off was my hormones. I was older than, older than, older than I am, which is pretty ironic, considering that that, you know, that's, that's, I call myself the hormone king of Reno you know,

Speaker 3  02:39
that's hilarious. Yeah, do they specify which hormones?

Bill Clearfield  02:43
No, they you know. You ever see that test, the age diagnostic? No, I haven't. I'm going to write it down, give you, give you, like, 12 different systems. But quite frankly, they can tell you anything. I don't know what the hell they're so, okay,

Speaker 1  03:00
all right, the blueprint test that has epigenetic testing. I use that often for optimization of patients prior because of the SNPs and histones and all that fun stuff. When my mom was diagnosed with bone marrow cancer this past year, it really made me realize how much we you know from the epigenetic standpoint, can turn things on or off.

Unknown Speaker  03:22
What's the name of the test?

Speaker 1  03:24
Am I allowed to say name things because of the CME part? I hope that's

Unknown Speaker  03:27
okay. We're not on yet. We're not on. Okay, okay,

Speaker 1  03:30
great. Sorry, I There we go. Um, that's my biggest fear tonight, is that I'm gonna actually say a brand, um, but it's called blueprint three times four for three by four, it actually is on full script. Test cost $299 and it gives you over 170 biomarkers.

Speaker 3  03:51
It's pretty cool. Wow. Okay, great. Thank you. Yes.

Speaker 1  03:55
And then I just add on a consult, not consultation, but a interpretation fee. Okay, they give you the answers to it, but you also, you know, need to think about the patient's history, right? Pretty neat. It's very, very cool to me with peptides and all that craziness. I you know, I appreciate peptides, love them, but you need to know the baseline epigenetic component for the patient to keep them safe.

Speaker 3  04:17
So do you give peptide peptides? Do you prescribe them,

Speaker 1  04:21
few and far between? So I teach a lot of it, and I've it's funny, yes and no, is your short answer to that.

Speaker 2  04:28
But don't worry about it. That's the background recording. That's okay.

Speaker 1  04:35
But you know, to me, I ended up teaching more about it because I was frustrated there wasn't much available. And I worked in reproductive endocrinology, gosh, almost 15 years ago. And if you think about it, insulin is hormone, you know, different peptides and you know, or we've been using peptides for a while, but to me, really understanding the root cause, and you'll hear that a lot tonight, I'm a big root cause person, or optimizing the patient individually, which is interesting but difficult to teach at the same time.

Speaker 3  05:07
Well, the reason why I ask is when I met Dr Nario and Dr Clearfield, the commenting pharmacist who hosted it, didn't say good things about peptides,

Speaker 1  05:19
and I don't blame the pharmacist for saying that we only know what we know, right? And so I'll be

Speaker 2  05:28
I think I muted you. Sorry. You're okay. Feel free to mute me.

Speaker 1  05:33
But, you know, I think along the way, knowledge is power, but the more you learn, the more you realize you don't know. So, you know, I think the biggest thing is, in peptides, it's, it can be good use for good, it can be used for bad. So I actually created a course on it, because I was frustrated. But you know, it's, it's a lot more work than people think. Especially tonight, I'll be talking about esthetics. And coming from an esthetic field, we're really spoiled for the return on investment. And so you know, what type of practice are you in? If you don't mind me asking, right?

Speaker 3  06:10
So functional medicine practice in Reno, my own. It's my own practice. Fantastic.

Speaker 1  06:16
Do you do any esthetics at all?

Speaker 3  06:19
I don't, I mean, unless you call topical estriol on the face, right esthetics. But no, I don't like do Botox or anything like that. I try to turn my gosh, you can see me.

Speaker 1  06:34
Oh, hi. Nice to see you. Yeah, I see so to me, and you know, I hope I'm not starting this lecture prematurely, but to me, you know, we have to do a good faith exam in esthetics, and so it's the best opportunity to optimize the patient's health and really spend that time. So that's where the functional, integrative component, or what I call precision or personalized medicine, comes into play. I'm already doing an HMP. I might as well do laboratory testing, optimize them, and then make a game plan for Regenerative or esthetic outcomes. So a lot of people, I think, come to me, sorry, my pillow keeps coming back and forth and back on. A lot of people come to me, I think, for Botox, but it's somewhat stealth, because then we offer a healing opportunity or journey, right? Yeah, it's pretty neat. I practice. So I have a healthcare clinic establishment in Florida. I started in an Airstream 10 years ago, before it was cool, and I actually practice in a brick and mortar office here in historic Roswell. It's an old 1910, house that's restored. I love it. It's the little cozy place, yes. So I teach a lot of providers, and not that men can't train with me, but it's mainly I a lot of women, a lot of PAs that are getting out of the hospital. That's great. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. I always kind of call myself like the Katniss of esthetics, because the reps either love me or hate me, because I'll say, Nope, that doesn't work. That's an expensive box. Don't do that like Dr Clearfield says, You're right. So, you know, we go to all these fancy conventions and they try to get us to buy so many things, and really, you don't need much. Yeah, I'll connect with you after we'll talk,

Unknown Speaker  08:14
okay, yeah, thank you. Of course, I'll mute myself.

Unknown Speaker  08:24
Dr Nario, did you want to start or anything before I

Unknown Speaker  08:26
start? Oh, okay, sure. Dr Bill, should we go?

Bill Clearfield  08:33
Yes, we have Dr Nario in the tip of the week. All right,

Speaker 4  08:37
tip of the week, just to warm our conversation for today. It's a pretty good topic. I I see that we're going to be diving in something different today anyway, so we're again. For me, this is my personal experience, and according to the fellowship, it's something that's also in the rise. So we're seeing increasing fertility issues, and not just from age, but also from metabolic problems, stress and environmental exposures in our hormone balancing practice, this is a common problem, especially with a young couple boxing walks in your practice saying, We've tried everything. Can natural medicine help absolutely the the patients preparing for IVF egg harvesting or surrogacy, we turn to evidence based nutritional and herbal allies that support ovarian, sperm, endometrial health. So let's start with one of the favorite supports that we have, not only for fertility, but also for cardiovascular is CO Q 10, the cell sparks. This actually sparks the spark plug of the cell. So dosing for fertility would be 200 to 400 milligrams daily using what Ubiquinol. This is the form that we prefer, and according to fertility and sterility, 2018, trial showed improve ovarian response and embryo quality in IVF patients. Think of it as cellular caffeine for your eggs without the crash. The next would be L carnitine for mitochondrial fuel transport. So those would be one to two grams per day, so l carnitine or acetyl l carnitine. So in the journal reproductive biology and endocrinology 2020, review shows benefits for sperm motility and oocyte energy metabolism, essentially giving a gametes a metabolic Tune Up Next would be our favorite, Myo inositol, so often with a D Chiro inositol, and we always hear this with PCOS. But of course, in helping regulation of insulin sensitivity and now for fertility, ovulation. So two to four grams Myo inositol, plus 50 milligrams D Chiro, inositol daily. That analysis from gynecology endocrinology 2021, shows a better ovulation in oocyte quality. So it's the insulin whisper for the ovary. So a plant, an herb that is commonly used is also maca, acts as an adaptogen for hypothalamic pituitary access. Those would be 1.53 grams of standard extract daily. So clinical trials and evidence based complementary alternative medicine, 2016 reports improve libido and sperm parameters and no, it doesn't make you grow muscles, just maybe more eggs and smiles. So antioxidant aspect NAC improves ovulation and implantation rates at the dose of 600 milligrams, twice daily in human reproduction, 2019, and vitamin e4, 100 international units daily, and omega three fatty acids, one to two grams, EPA, DHA daily support endometrial receptivity and embryo implantation. So think of antioxidants as the fertility bodyguards, keeping DNA intact until the finish line. So your fertility toolkit looks like this, mitochondrial fuel, co Q, 10 l carnitine, hormone balance, inositols, maca, antioxidant protection, NAC, vitamin E and omega threes. So natural support isn't in a magic wand, but it's powerful in terms of fertility insurance, and even if pregnancy takes time, your mitochondria will be thriving and ready for anything, including your toddlers. So that's our tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  12:13
See, that's great, and we didn't have to spend a zillion years in sitting through boring lectures, right? You got it,

Unknown Speaker  12:24
hey, fertility,

Bill Clearfield  12:25
you might, you might be an osteopath afterwards, you know it's find it, fix it, leave it alone,

Speaker 4  12:30
right? Well, yeah, the mechanic in me does that.

Bill Clearfield  12:33
So, yeah, okay, great. So just, just real quick before we turn it over to our speaker here, I want to again, a plug for our conference, and the we're actually doing pretty quite well, I think, here, and it's, we're, we're four weeks out now we Start December 4, so it's exactly one month from today, and we're getting quite a good response and from all across the country. I don't know where some of them are coming from. I know a lot of them are coming from here, but we have signups from Louisiana, from St Louis, a pisbo in California, from Long Island, from Minnesota, so and not Dr Tano from Minnesota. You know others from Minnesota. And so we really want you to take the email that we sent you with the links and please send it to your your email mailing list. We've got sponsors. We only have one spot left now we have three sponsors for for lunch on, on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, non CME sponsors. They're all compounding pharmacies. Thursday is solution specialty from Las Vegas. Friday is Sierra compounding pharmacy from Reno and then we have college pharmacy from Colorado Springs is coming on Saturday. David Conn with his EMF machine, is coming on Friday morning. And then we have a Local Wellness Center is going to sponsor a breakfast. So I have one

Speaker 4  14:13
more. I have one more. The Grateful gardens will sponsor that missing piece. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  14:19
Well, what we're doing is not, not so much for the food, but for non CME. We're sort of goosing them for a little little extra money here. Not sure. We're actually pretty cheap compared to, you know, the grand Taj Mahals that you get, you get at the big conferences. So, so we really need you to step up here. You know, you guys that, especially the ones are here week after week after week, we have all this great content. It doesn't cost you anything. You can get to CME credits for it when you know, if you want, and you know that cost $50 which doesn't go to us at all. And but we really, we want to. And again, you know, this is a, this was a quick job where it's a small room, it would only hold 60, so we really want to fill it, and then we have online. So I'm anticipating the whole room should be full and at least 100 online. And that that that will do well, Friday night, we have some entertainment. We have a local, local group that also has Dr Fong in it. You know, our head of Noma, he sings with them, and he's actually quite good. And so we're going to have a, I can't remember, is it a sit down dinner or a buffet? Dr

Speaker 4  15:36
Neri, I can't remember what we ordered. I think it's a sit down. So,

Bill Clearfield  15:39
so, and then we're, you know, have a group with us and and I'm taking around something for Thursday night. Also, we didn't really plan on anything, yes, but I have an idea. So we have a great lineup. If you haven't seen it, I'll going to let Dr Collins do her thing, and I'll show it to you at the end, when we're done. But we really need, we really need you there. It's not that expensive. 20 ama CME credits if you're in the homeopathic world. It's less expensive if you're just unless you're a homeopathic doctor. Then then we kind of have you at our level. But the homeopathic assistance, the homeopathic advanced practitioners. It's pretty much half price. We have passes for spouses. We have, you name it. We have students coming, and hopefully it's going to be I came up with it with a new tagline for for Dr Nario shower this morning. We needed a second line. So, so I already told everybody what? Where the Congress of medical excellence. I already explained where that name came from, right? So I came up with a tagline. Since we're in Reno, it just sort of hit me the biggest little conference in the universe. That's going to be our tag. For those of you don't know, Reno is known as the biggest little city in the world, and there's a big arch in downtown Reno. And, you know, it was considered not Las Vegas back in the day.

Unknown Speaker  17:10
So that hot shower really does kind of I

Unknown Speaker  17:13
was gonna say

Bill Clearfield  17:15
that was a cold shower. I have to do, I have to do Stefan's thing.

Speaker 4  17:19
So, well, you know what? Sponsor told me, think about this as a like a pre conference, also for a, for m, because we're so close to Vegas during that time. So if you really like, into education, all the teachings, hey, this is where you can, like, stack it all up together.

Bill Clearfield  17:38
If you remember, doctor, was it last year or the year before? Who's, who's, I can't remember her name. This is what happens when you get old. You forget names. The little the little lady in Buffalo, who does Environmental Medicine, what's her name? Is it? Dr tell Yes. Dr Patel, yeah. Dr Patel, she said she hated it at a 4m she said it was too big. She couldn't get anything right. She liked ours better. So little little more personable. And hopefully you know that the first one that I the first conference that I ran back in 2018 if you remember those of you were there, Doctor, Doctor, Royal stem cell, the doctor and doctor, and Dr far she had almost got into a fist fight, so had to get, get in the middle. And hopefully that won't happen. We, we had to get between them there. So, so Dr royal, so Dr farshen, if you don't know, is, you know, with a regenerative medicine doctor pretty he taught me in out of Miami, and Dr Royals down in Las Vegas, and he does a lot of tribal medicine. And Dr royal mentioned, since a throwaway line, and I really don't think he meant it, you know, as any, any insult, he says, Well, we're not some stem cell, you know, Fly By Night stem cell clinic in Miami. Oh, boy. And, and we, we were visited secretly. Well, not so secretly, because I knew who it was by, by the representative from the AOA education department to spy on us, to see what kind of program we put on. So she got, she got there about the time the two of them were drawing at each other. So

Speaker 4  19:13
yeah, no fighting here. This is wholesome show and everything. I guess this is all for you guys. Why? How we made it so far, and this is the product of everything that we're doing for years. So we definitely want to give this out to you guys. So I

Speaker 1  19:26
think I taught Dr farsh in PDO threads, maybe 15 years ago, long time ago. Small world.

Bill Clearfield  19:35
Now, before you begin, Dr Collins, is this? It says, Turn on reactions, and if I keep clicking, is that on your screen? Because I can't seem

Speaker 1  19:41
to get that is on my screen, and for some reason, it likes to stay there. It drives me bananas.

Unknown Speaker  19:47
So, all right,

Unknown Speaker  19:49
I apologize, and I'll minimize our little

Unknown Speaker  19:51
okay. And with that,

Unknown Speaker  19:54
what does that even mean? Turn on reaction?

Bill Clearfield  19:57
I have no idea. And with that, I'd like to introduce everybody to Dr Joni Collins, and he's been with us for a few weeks now. You're not quiet, and you know when, when comes no she's going to discuss with us a platelet rich fin, a second generation platelet concentrate derived from the patient's blood, designed to promote natural healing and tissue regeneration. Unlike PRP, platelet rich plasma, PRF requires no chemical additives or any coagulants. Oh, so I sort of got that have the PRF. Also, when I first started with PRP, I was mixing chemicals and this and that, it took an almost an hour to get the blood. So it's much easier this way, and it's produced through a simple centrifuge process that allows the blood's natural clotting factors to form a fibrin matrix. Why? Why am I reading this? You should be telling this. Is it. Who is Dr Collins, nationally recognized in regenerative and esthetic medicine. She blends advanced science with a compassionate patient care. She's a doctor of medical science with certifications as a physician's associate and certified esthetic consultant. She's trained over 350 providers across the US. She empowers practices deliver every evidence based, results driven care over the past 20 years. She's the founder and owner of co owner of 1228 wellness. You're going to explain what that number means. And pioneer 1228 protocol, TM and 1228 method, TM trademark, right? Those innovative systems combine functional medicine, regenerative therapies and esthetic procedures to optimize at the cellular level, health and beauty go on for an hour. Okay? Dr Collins, thank you for being with us. We love we love hearing Oh, thank you guys, people with with fresh perspectives, instead of like Dr Burgess and I, you know, Grumpy Old Men.

Speaker 1  21:58
So if we were in here earlier, I jokingly said, Well, I'm 84 I'm not that young. I'm closer to 50 than 40, but I'm very thankful for what I get to do every day. And so interrupt me please if I'm talking too quickly, or if I'm mumbling too much, and just call me out. I get really excited about this, and even though I've been doing it for, gosh, 20 years. So my name is Joni, or Dr Collins, and like you said, and you know, I grew up as the middle child, and I don't know if it's from being middle child or trying to prove myself, or being a nerdy kid whose parents were teachers, but I always wanted to know the why about things and so on my, you know, 35th birthday, what does everyone want for the 35th birthday, a centrifuge. And so my mom bought me a centrifuge, and I it led off from there of just having excitement, of understanding different protocols and seeing how this could really change someone's life. So at the end of this lecture, we'll have, you know, a Q and A some things will be able to talk on this part of the CME portion. Others will not. So just if you can save your questions till the end. But you know, the biggest thing I want you to hear is think of PRF as like Windex on My Big Fat Greek Wedding. You can use it almost for anything, heals many, many things. And so we're talking about PRF, not PR FM, which is cell fill. This is PRF as in, just straight up, platelet rich, vibrant, 100% all natural. So this is just some disclosures, and that picture in that little background is actually me wing walking. But I give you guys a random fact for 5000 about me. When I was 20, I used to wing walk at air shows. So I have a completely geeky obsession with biplanes. So what I wanted to start off the lecture too, with was talking about how we have such a blessing and an opportunity to take care of our patients. And I know so many of us are burnt out during covid, but if we really get back to really why we went into medicine, it was to help take care of other people. And so this is an Airstream on the left. It's actually was my clinic from 2017 to present date in Florida. And I loved it because it was stealth and it helped with permits from county to county in Florida. Used to have a budding counties to be able to get permits, but, you know, somewhat stealth because the airstream would show up and people wouldn't really know what it was there for. But I started in, you know, helping women from domestic violence, sex trafficking, for scar therapy. So go and love someone exactly as they are, and then watch how quickly they transform into greatness, truest versions of themselves. When one feels seen and appreciated in their own essence, one is instantly empowered. And so that's kind of the MO Or that's, you know, my life song is educating, empowering and serving others, and what other than a great way to do that through the initial history and physical or intake component. And so we'll briefly talk about that, but these are the objectives for this evening. And I'm terrible about I don't care to read slides, so just know that you guys will have a copy of this, I'm sure, and you can go back and read them in detail as well. I also have a little handout sheet that I can email to Dr William and that he can send to you guys. So you know, what we want to talk about this evening is why I believe that PRF is superior how the glycocalyx has a critical role in the quality of platelet rich fibrin, and examining that cellular structure, how it influences our platelets and how they function, and then optimization strategies. There are so many things out there, and it's hard to tell what works and what doesn't, but I wanted to discuss briefly, too tonight about how we optimize our glycocalyx health and how it really does help the platelet rich vibran to be superior, and that it actually works. So I always give the analogy, if you're baking a cake, and you only had a certain amount of money to go bake this cake, you'd want to make sure the eggs that you used in the cake actually worked, so that your cake is baked correctly. Same kind of theory with this. So briefly, I'm not going to bore you with just whole blood in the whole quick review, but you know, when you centrifuge things down, the heaviest goes to the bottom, and that's your red blood cells. The other component can be plasma, and there's certain parts you know of that plasma, like platelet poor plasma, that can be used for pain. But then alpha granules are at the lower part, depending upon if it's a fixed angle or a horizontal centrifuge. We'll talk about that. The neatest thing to me about platelet rich fibrin is that, you know, it's straight up, just your blood spin down. And so it helps with, you know, wound healing, regeneration, and it's highly concentrated of growth factor component. And so just quick review, again, classifications. What are platelet concentrates? Because that's we're going to be focusing on with platelet rich fibrin. Platelet concentrates, you guys have evolved many, many moons over time. And if I don't tell you one side, if I tell you 50 times tonight, platelet rich fiber itself actually has 24 protocols. We're not going to go over all those, I would bore you half to death. But it was basically had a big paradigm shift when Dr chakroon started, you know, bringing it to the dental forefront in 2001 so there's, you know, basically play the concentrates, PRP, PRF, and then under PRP, there's lprp, pprp, under PRF, there's pprf, lprf, but then there's 24 other protocols in addition to that. So I think of the F in playlist freiburn as freaking fabulous. So you'll remember peer F. So this will you know later in this talk, we'll talk about centrifuge settings, or, excuse me, the centrifuge angle versus horizontal, and how the outcomes change with peer F based on lipid envelope, virus exposure. And so currently, most brands out today have a fixed angle, but we see in a bucket or horizontal centrifuge, we actually get more quality of the PRF throughout. That's that plasma component, and it's easier to pull out and to replicate. But I just want to do, you know, go over some key components of what has to do with plate retriever. And so you have your blood, you have your centrifuge, and then there's tubes. So if you go and research, and this actually was my doctorate thesis, was on PRF and psychological outcomes and improved outcomes in oncology patients, they will tell you, there's all these different tubes, and it's this tube with a green top or this tube with a purple top. And really, what is the difference? Is the component of the material. So is it glass? Is it plastic? Is it lined with silicone? And you can tell if it has any type of lining, because when the blood is actually taken, if it foams there's obviously some type of chemical substance. We used to use straight up, just glass. But unfortunately, with lipid envelop viruses that we'll talk about, it promoted coagulation too much, and so it would clot before you could even use it. Speed is an important factor, and it's what differentiates PRP versus PRF. You know, people will say you need a certain centrifuge. It really is more of a calculation that you can do. So after this lecture, if you have a certain centrifuge, we can talk about the calculations. You do not have to go buy a $5,000 centrifuge, but speeds, basically, for separating, you know, blood, it's around 1500 to 5000 RPMs. And that speed just depends upon, you know, what you really want from that. So plasma versus serum, and then, you know, PRP is a higher speed, 3000 to 3500 so this just has to do with how you would calculate it if you actually wanted to change what's called the RCF, the RPMs, and then, you know, it's based on basically the radius of the centrifuge. And this is a cheat sheet that you guys can look back at later. PRF gets a bad rap, because they'll say that it's not replicated easily in experiments. It's mainly because people use either a fixed angle or a horizontal angle, or they'll use something, you know, instead of using the G, you know, as unit for centrifuge steps, they're using, you know, RPMs more which isn't as useful as a unit. Just keep that in mind when you're looking at articles of replication and statistics significance. So PR, F, here we go, guys, you're going to be thinking of me as pure F, P R, F, P R, F, but I love it, because it changed my life. I have rheumatoid arthritis, and like I said, my mom gave me a centrifuge on my 35th birthday. Was 15 years ago, and it changed my life because I helped so many people I feel like from it, including myself, and it's changed my practice a lot. What is pure F? It's your own blood, like he said, like George Clifford said, it does not have any additive. So if somebody comes to you and they say, Oh, I had PRF, it burned like crazy. That is not pure f, that is PRP. And if you think about it, if you had a cut, you wouldn't just go dump some chemicals on your blood. You would just hold pressure and let the body do its own thing. And that's what PRF does. We're actually having the body promote its own cascade for tissue repair, for collagen synthesis and for cellular migration. So PRF is mainly known because VEGF, pdgf and the TGF beta sounds like a partridge in a pear tree of alphabet soup that it's angiogenesis, recruitment and proliferation that we see the big difference PRP has additives. It's rich in growth factors, but it lacks a fibrin scaffold. So I always think of PRF and PRP as two different players. One, I say, is the walk of shame that burns. Its growth factors are up down, and the other one is pure F freaking fabulous. It lifts up the person. It's more of like spiritual experience. It doesn't burn. And the growth factor continues to accelerate over 28 days

Speaker 1  31:44
so again, PRF versus PRP. We could go into this forever, but the biggest thing of the difference is the growth factor stages PRP. Again, initial surge, and then it depletes quickly. PRF continues to improve. PRF also doesn't burn. PRP does. There's no additive in PRP. Excuse me, there's no additive in pure F. PRP has an additive. So when you think about oncology, esthetics and adding with people with different platelet platelet issues, this is great because it's it's your own stuff. It's 100% natural. So you know, the biggest thing with pure F is the clotting component of this fiber matrix, and it's a slower release of the cells. So it's almost like this implant. And we actually used to use it for nasal spreader grafts and facial plastics Head and Neck Surgery, because it mimics this wound healing, but it delivers growth factor while creating a structure there. And additionally, it wakes up fat pads. It helps with pigment, texture and tone. And so that is the golden, you know, egg and esthetics is it kind of hits up one, one stop shop for everything. You can dilute it with saline or hyper dilute it with saline, and it helps with elasticity. Helps with tightening. And so, you know, some clinical applications are facial volumization. So at the age of 25 we start to see that we lose a half a teaspoon of volume a year in our face. So by the time you're 50, that's half a cup. So what's beautiful about this is it actually wakes up the fat pads and creates a scaffold and a lifting but it's 100% all natural helps with scalp treatment, for Hair Regeneration, wound healing. It's actually been used for leprosy, with healing. It helps with skin quality improvement, burn and post procedural healing enhancement. So how is the superior you're thinking, okay, Joanie, just taking blood. We're spinning it and, yeah, that's it. Yeah, that's it. It's pretty easy and pretty basic. With taking away the Big Pharma component, you really just need a centrifuge and a patient with with healthy blood and managing expectations, and the fact that we have the biggest opportunity at our good faith exam or at the initial intake to optimize the patient's health so that their blood is working the best It can. And so the science, what I believe that pure F is superior, is that we see that it helps with this tissue regeneration, and again, that fiber matrix Acts, Acts, excuse me, as a scaffold in a reservoir so you have the sustained gross relief. Excuse me, growth factor release. Remember I was saying the PRP is up and down really quickly. Pure F, it's steady, slow and steady wins the race, and it actually mimics natural wound healing, again, no anticoagulants, so it captures more of these bioactive cytokines, growth factors in cells. And there's research by Dr Johan to repeat that over and over, of growth factors being higher and sustained over PRP, so I actually perform l, p, r, F, and we're not going to go into detail too much of that tonight, but the leukocyte content actually helps with antimicrobial and immune modulation. So let's say I have a bride coming in, and she's getting married on Saturday, and she's got a big fat zit on her face. You can actually use PRF to help get rid of that big zit and not use any type of medication. It's her own cells. This is an old, old sheet. This is from 2015 and this is when I just started researching PRF and growth factors and alpha granules. But you can see there's so many different growth factors, and this is just a part of it. There's over, I want to say, close to 100 and this is actually comparison of some growth factors, PRP versus PRF, and we see a more sustained growth factor concentration with this PRF, again, from that platelet or fibrin plug. And I'm not poo pooing PRP. There's a place for everything, and I think orthopedics is great, but I just see so much improvement with the PRF, especially when optimized in my esthetic and regenerative clinic. So we already mentioned that facial rejuvenation, hair restoration, wound healing, it can be used for like post pelvic wall radiation, for vaginal dryness, sexual enhancement, sensation and more. You can use it in the hands and your joints and actually help with pain. And these are different. This is just kind of that basic technical consideration of how to prepare it. If someone's on anticoagulant, think you're going to just have to pull more tubes, because it's fertilizer, right? You need to have more it's more surface area with less dilute at the concentration, so just more tubes. Again. These are some of the advanced formulations, iprf, aprf and PRF membranes. And just think Slow and steady wins the race. Slower centrifuge speed as compared to PRP. It's a higher speed for longer time. So I'm going to just briefly show you 20 different protocols you can use in esthetics. And again, this can be combination treatments, but these are just some options, and you'll see a lot of iprf, the injectable, which is just, it's not a green, purple, orange, red, yellow top. It's just a different speed setting. But the neat thing is that, again, you can create micro channels with micro needling, and then deliver these growth factors of this fiber and scaffold on top. If you see people actually micro needling in the PRF that actually kills the cells, it doesn't work, so you have to inject it initially, and I do that with a micro cannula for volumization and a full face correction, or even on the body. And then we microneedle with hypochlorous, getting all the dead cells off as we go, using a hyaluronic as a glide, and then cleaning off the hyaluronic, because you cannot the hyaluronic molecule so thick the PRF can't live through that, so you've got to clean it up and then topically set it on there. PRF is fantastic for dry eye. And you know, allergic shiners think friction is hyperpigmentation. So someone's rubbing their eyes a lot, they're going to have a darker circle too, not only mentioning just nasal lacrimal duct, you know, just allergy junk, but also friction is hyperpigmentation. So PRF works amazing for that, for extracellular matrix remodeling, there is such thing as PF gel. I'm not a massive fan. To me, it's somewhat of just albumin being heated with PRF Dr. Myron seems to really like that. I'm not a big fan. I haven't really seen such great results with it. You can do PRF with PDO threads, but I would say, make sure you alternate these procedures. One's inflammatory, one's anti inflammatory. So to me, if I'm doing PDO threads, I want inflammation. And if I'm doing, you know, pure F, it's an anti inflammatory so I piggyback them, you know, two weeks here, two weeks there, and make a package of membership of alternating procedures. I'm not a fan of RF micro needling, but some people use that to prevent post inflammatory hyperpigmentation and maintain the fat volume scalp restoration. Remember, lidocaine is cytotoxic, so you don't want to bolus injections of lidocaine and then, you know, put the PRF, and it would kill the cells. Vibration therapy, to me, is the go to for that, and a little bit of good bedside manner and arm rub and suck it up. But vibration also improves for cytokine signaling. You can use it for lips. So as we age, you know, begin to get that border definition is lost. You don't have to worry as much, although, when I teach, I say, treat it as if it were a hyaluronic filler. You know, you worry about a vascular occlusion, but nearly the risks that you would have with a ha filler. And your cost of goods, from a business standpoint, is less acne scarring, incredible, that fiber and scaffold helps when there's a deep, depressed scar, like boxcar. And then from a dental standpoint, I'm not a dentist, so this is out of my scope, but just so you guys can see what's out there, and then regenerative and orthobiological protocols. So there are studies headed studies of stromal fracture in combination, or even just lipo aspirate or a fat transfer with or without PRF. And we see that that PRF holds that that pocket or that that fat in place, and it proves the survival and the cell differentiation of the cells. Excuse me, some bills. You can use it for joint injections, because it's anti inflammatory and it helps with the growth factors for cartilage. But if you do not have cartilage there, it's not going to just magic wand. It Right? It's got to be there. But more than anything, I use it for just inflammation and for pain. And so you know you could do pF, talking about peptides earlier. I do epigenetic, genetic testing prior at my initial consult, and optimizing of the patient before we even use their PRF. But it is synergistic. And then I also have a biohack membership where we alternate cryotherapy PRF. I have a bioharmonic bed, cellular frequencies and, you know, and such, but it reduces that oxidative stress, and it enhances that microvascular circulation or restoration, which is huge, and that's we're going to talk about in a minute. You can use it, post laser, post peel, again, chronic ulcer dressings. It's pretty neat. You can see that that lprf membrane or that plug that people will put that patch over ulcers, and it really does help burns. I've had so many people refer me patients that they burnt with a laser, and we use the peer F to actually reduce the fibrosis. And for dermal remodeling,

Speaker 1  41:14
some other just random and not random. But I don't use these as much with IV cannulas, but you can actually, let's say somebody has a little bit of an injury to the site. You can actually take that plug and put it over the side, and it helps the tissue sealing, and it minimizes phlebitis. It helps reduce the frequency of phlebitis. And again, think about it, that antimicrobial effect and that healing effect. So what we're going to talk about in a minute is endothelial health for higher quality with glycocalyx and pure F pre draw. You can use it sexual health and wellness. You can use it for sinus spray. Although I have not done that personally. I just know people that have trust with verify in that one. And what I want to kind of laugh about is this seems like it's new age. You guys, it's not. This has been around forever, and I am not a rocket scientist that just came up with this grandiose way to do this in esthetics. It's been around since, you know, long, long time, 2001 but in 2018 it just shows you, I was teaching on the West Coast, on PRF, and suddenly, now east coast. I know you guys are mostly west coast, but east coast, it's a big to do now. It's been around forever. But what I want you to notice in 2018 This is the picture that we would use to explain PRF. And you can see that plug. I always call it the little booger, right? And this is where I really started noticing a difference in quality of PRF based upon what that plug looks like. You can tell this is a fixed angle centrifuge, because you see that angle where the red blood cells are an angle, okay, that will make a difference in a minute. And at the top is more of that, just platelet poor plasma, PPP, and that pure F is that fibrin clot in there, and then the red blood cells. So the blessing of or the fruit of labor, is that I've been, I was saying earlier, I've been blessed to teach a lot of providers how to start their own clinic. And after the talk, we'll talk about that 1228, number, what that means. But there's a protocol I developed, and it's a business model as well, but it helps with healing your cells from within, and that really comes from optimizing. So here I am. You know, since 2018 live in the life of candy canes and lollipops. Life is good. PRF is being used for hyperpigmentation. You can see this patient on the right. It's one of my patients. This is immediately post treatment. She has a little bit of a dark, allergic shiner. You can see under her eye. It's already improved with one visit. PRF for scaffolding. So this patient actually had Kybella, and they actually, in the first picture, it made them look like they had micronathia or shortened jaw. So you can use pure F to create more of a structure and volumization of the face. PRF can't lose great life, because we could use PRF just like windex for texture, tone and pigment. You can see in this melasma patient hermelanocyte activation without being on different meds or hydroquinone, which I don't care for at all, because the liver, this is just patient's own cells. This is someone's hand. You can see the volume and just how much more so young that you can see the curving of that patient's hand. It looks like an arthritis patient helps with not only fine lines wrinkles, but volume and pain. So here, you know, here I am living this candy cane in Lollipop world. I'm using pure F for everything. My cost of goods is maybe, like 30 bucks. And you know, you're having an incredible return, and you mainly just need a centrifuge and some math and a common sense and how to use micro cannulas for art. And then the world changed because of a lipid envelope virus and our PRF, world dramatically changed. I started noticing that the PRF looked different. Remember that first picture I showed you was like that boogery Little clot you can see in this picture to the right here is a little fluffy. And I even had a fixed angle centrifuge, and see all the red blood cells were kind of scooped. So without being, you know, saying what exactly it is, but you can tell what I'm heading towards, lipid envelope viruses, adenovirus, covid, different, you know, inflammatory conditions affect the PRF quality. So I thought, Oh, my stars. What am I going to do? This is 90% of my business. This isn't going to work. I can't tell somebody that this is pure F. It looks like albumin, and that's where the research came in for the glycocalyx. And you can see here on the far left, there's actually a glass tube. And you could probably tell who's had which, you know, exposure to what, because you can tell, see the bottom of that on the left, it's it looks kind of just, there's really no fibrin clot whatsoever. I actually it would congeal so quickly. As soon as you would pop the top off, it would oxidize, and then it would just be like a hard bolus of just, just albumin. On the right, you can see we had to switch from glass to actually plastic tubes, because it wouldn't coagulate or clot so quickly. I can't tell you how many syringes of hyaluronic filler that I wasted, because I was marrying them together with PRF and the clotting component, or just the, you know, what was in it, Mr. Virus, was actually caused the it just clotted. I wasted so so much money. So quick backstory, without seeing any brands or anything, you know, here I am teaching peer F in love with PRF, Windex and my big fabric wedding, but I'm starting to see a difference in the quality and my quality of work, you know, as a result, was different. The work I was doing didn't stay and I felt like I was cheating the patients. And so what do I do when I don't know why I go hunting? And so I was teaching, ironically, on hair restoration in San Diego, and I actually was on 80 milligrams of prednisone. I had covid Three times. I was short of breath. I felt like crap. And I thought maybe it was just, you know, just traveling, you know, being a mom of 16 year old girls at the time, I think there were, what, 12. And at this conference, I saw this man at the end of the hall, and he had this device. And I'm like, What the heck is that thing? And it actually evaluated your micro capillary and gave you a microvascular health score. And so he talked me into doing it, and here I am cocky, thinking I feel like crap, but my score was terrible. And last week, or the week before, we talked about glycocalyx, and you know, things out there to evaluate this. And it actually was hand in hand with what was going on, my score was 1.79 which is terrible, but it was because I had been exposed to lipid envelope virus so many times, my own PRF looked like that last slide with just straight up albumin, and I started to realize that there was some correlation. When people would come and have their PRF drawn if they recently were ill or traveled or had recent booster let's say they would clot really quickly, or it wouldn't look like it had any growth factor component in it, and the result was poor. So as a result of that test, I learned about the glycocalyx, and it completely just congealed for me, the why of why this pure F was not looking good or working great, because of this endothelial glycocalyx that is compromised with certain conditions. And this is to me, just my my heart, my life song, is optimizing patients and explaining this when I meet them from the beginning. Excuse the creaky door in the background. So we spoke briefly last week. I won't go into too much detail of what the glycocalyx is. But if you think about, you know, first off, you have this patient coming for the consult, and to me, we create a wish list, a top three wish list. We go over their HMP, you know, any upcoming events, and we create a game plan. And I always say, you know, I don't want you to come here and think you need this. You need this. You need this, because that's overwhelming and kind of gross. I want them to have a relaxing experience, but that's the best opportunity for us to optimize their health and really get at the root, no pun intended, of what's going on in their their health. And so think of that glycocalyx, almost like the root right the roots to a tree. You can throw all you want at a tree, and if the roots are not working, it's not absorbing things correctly, the tree is going to croak, and that's what the glycocalyx is like. It's a gel like layer in the luminal surfaces, excuse me, surface of our vascular endothelium, and it basically extends from the cell membrane. So I always think of a candy, of course, because I love candy, a Twizzler, and that little gel, like that little white coating on the inside those little straws, and if it were to just kind of wither away in a road, right? That would be a glycocalyx that is not intact. And so think about with covid. We had people with rashes, loss of taste, loss of smell, you would see third spacing, albumin shifts. You would see, you know, just nasty, right? And and it's because it consists of this glycocalyx when it's compromised, you know, the membranes, components that are bound to it, or what keeps the blood flowing through the vessel wall, and it keeps the roots intact to absorb things. So the glycocalyx consists of pretty glycans, glyco aminoglycans and glycoproteins, and again, their dynamic inner surface, or integrative, excuse me, between the blood flow and the vessel wall at the picture on the bottom here. This is actually kaposcope, and it's a microvascular health score evaluation.

Speaker 1  50:36
So why is this important? How does it have to do with PF? We'll get to that more in a minute. But basically the glycocalyx, it basically can, you know, it can signal and regulate nitric oxide production. When one of the physicians earlier was talking about in vitro and infertility and different things helping we see that the glycocalyx affects our implantation rates and has to do with that endothelial alignment and vascular tone and altered, you know, you know, vision, motor responses, that tissue perfusion, healing capacity. So think your quality is not going to be as high in your eggs if you don't have tissue perfusion or implantation rates appropriately, and inflammation, the permeability component of it, so it regulates the macro, micro fluid exchange. And if you think about it, when I was saying that, it just looked like straight up albumin, you know, it the balance or the protein component, and that permeability barrier had changed, and it's an anti inflammatory shield. So it prevents, you know, leukocyte adhesion under, you know, normal conditions, but it masks endothelial adhesion molecules. So basically, when the glycocalyx sheds, it promotes inflammation, and then it interferes with the regenerative signaling pathway, so it's not going to work as well, or PRF quality is going to be poor. And this, to me, is the most fascinating thing was step four, antithrobotic surface. So if this glycocalyx creates a barrier and preventing platelet adhesion and activation, it's got to deal something with exposure to something genetically and why some people were clotting more and virus was replicating. It has to do with the glycocalyx being intact because it contains anti Tharman three and tissue factor pathway inhibitors, excuse me, so it helps maintain, believe it or not, integrative properties, and that is imperative for platelet activation and PRF. The other thing is its growth factor quality. So this reservoir of these rich factors of alpha granules, such as, you know, VEGF, it's there no they're present more when you actually have a healthier, intact glycocalyx, because it enhances the bio bill, bioavailability, blah, blah, sorry, and the signaling efficiency. So the therapeutic outcome is going to be better if the glycocalyxes intact. Briefly, you guys can look at this later. We talked about the glycocalyx of proteoglycans. So, you know, just to remember and think about how this all kind of goes together. Proteoglycans are, you know, consists of these core proteins attached to long chains of polysaccharides, glyco aminoglycans such as heparin sulfate and chondroitin sulfate. Think about these supplements that we're recommending for people and things that actually help with absorption. These are products that actually help with the glycocalyx. If we talk about even ozone, in the past, we talked about like negative positive charge attracting water and cations these, you know, we'll call them gags for glycominoglycans, they're highly negatively charged, so it attracts water and cations. They're found in the extracellular matrix. Cell surfaces, structure support lubrication and cell signaling. So that cell signaling is massively important, not only from a regenerative standpoint, but from an immunotherapy standpoint. And I think in the future, we may see this being used for immunotherapy targeting. But again, these proteoglycans act as reservoirs for growth factor and cell cell interactions. So another part that is just the lipid molecule. Phospholipids are ceramides. And so basically, there's a part of this carbohydrate portion that faces outward in the cell membrane and the flow of, actually, these, you know, microcapular circulation, it depends on the stiffness or rigidity, but the glycolipid component affects this of that cell membrane, and so it's essential for cell recognition, communication and immune responses. So think about it. You know, we're talking, I was talking about the quality of the PRF, and seeing that it just looks like albumin versus actual true PR F, and if something is exposed to a lipid envelope virus, you're going to have lack of cell recognition communication, and your immune response is going to be different. So the glycocalyx not being intact is equivalent to that of the pure F quality being poor and your outcomes being more so poor. Glycoli is also protect the membrane, and they serve as, believe it or not, receptors for toxins or viruses. How crazy is that? And then glycoproteins, lastly, consists of these protein backbone or short changed, excuse me, or short branch to carbohydrate change. They're found in some membranes, like mucus, secretive proteins, hormones, antibodies, and when we talked about earlier, peptides are in the evening, that becomes a crucial role of that glycocalyx glycoproteins being intact for even peptides to work appropriately because of cell adhesion, you know, immune recognition, protein stability, and so there are key component, receptor enzymes and antibodies. This is just a quick chart for you to look at later. And so the glycocalyx is composed of these structure and components, heparin sulfate, glyphickins, chondroitin sulfate, hyaluronic acid and syndecans. And actually, you can use syndicate lab testing or blood testing to tell if the glycocalyx is intact or not, or if it's shedding during stress. You could go on a whole rabbit hole, though, of that with lab tests. But this is important too. Back here for glypigens, these integrative glycans, they regulate growth factor signaling and they either stimulate or in the inhibit ligand pathways, which is really important for mobility and within the membrane. And again, that glycocalyx is so important these roots to our trees because they have critical functions that mechanotransduction, so converting mechanical forces into cellular signals of sheer stress, stress, they actually that's part of their critical function. It regulates vascular permeability. So, you know, think about those rashes we were seeing, and you know, the loss of taste, loss of smell, it's sheer stress that was added to this glycocalyx affecting, actually, this, these, this PRF quality, so it was going hand in hand, and so you'd end up having patients who are pretty pod because they're spending money, a lot of it, and the result wasn't as good because their plasma wasn't as good, because their glycocalyx wasn't as good. And so that's why, at that initial consult, we optimize the patients so that they're healthier overall. And that's kind of the the stealth in esthetics is that you really have an opportunity to heal people. It's not as superficial as people think it's the best opportunity to heal and to help others. Going back to that glycocalyx again, the maintenance of the endothelial, endothelial surface layer. So platelet adhesion, guys, if you think about it, under you know physiological conditions, it can make or break a person's day, literally, life or death. So it's really important. And then, you know, just clinical implications of this degradation. Why it's important? So to me, it extends past even just cardiovascular disease, but it directly impacts a regenerative medicine outcomes. And you guys can read this long slide later, but basically, there's studies correlating the glycocalyx biomarkers with PRF quality, and we, you know, found that patients that had elevated syndicate levels, you remember PRF one through four syndicate back in the composure of it, if their levels one through four were higher than 40, there was a 35 to 50% reduction in the growth factor concentrations with platelet therapies. So it's important that people understand that if they have inflammatory conditions, that it affects this glycocalyx, which affects the pure F quality, and you know, it can impair the premature activation and reduce growth factor component, which is diminished regenerative capacity. And then there are other associations with glycocalyx damage, you know, other than lipid and Val viruses, diabetes, metabolic syndrome, smoking, chronic inflammation and just acute physical physiological stress, which even goes to the blood draw. It needs to be done, you know, quickly and not, and not the stress component. But believe it or not, that affects the outcomes of the pure F. And then these are just different tests. You can go back to the lecture from I think it was two weeks ago that we had on that actual microvascular health scanning and testing. There's also biomarkers you can test, but it could really send you down a rabbit hole of tests and maybe more so a medical legal liability. So I would caution you with that multi myeloma you see with syndicates, etc, this is the system I use. So before any of the patients actually have platelet rich fibrin component that we use it, I highly recommend that they have their microvascular health score. I had to white it out or blue it out because I didn't want to say brand names. But basically, to me, the neatest thing about this is that people come in they're wanting this esthetic wish list. I'm optimizing their blood, which actually, in return, you know, assesses factors like their inflammatory response, their cardiovascular risk, and I can help them more so. So again, going back to the drawing board of you know, what's the deal with pure F and the relationship with the glycocalyx? Sorry, my dog is walking right in here. When blood is drawn, the platelets carrying that intake glycocalyx, they demonstrate enhanced functioning. I think I've hit that home, like nail that over and over, that you're going to have better quality, pure F if your glycocalyx is in effect, and then the impact of the quality, again, that platelet glycocalyx with these glycoproteins, glyco aminoglycans, they mediate adhesion, activation, growth factor secretion.

Speaker 1  1:00:36
So make sure at your you know, if you're doing platelet rich fiber and you're doing any platelet autologous cell therapies, or even just medicine in general, to me, look to your left or to your right. Everyone should be checking the microvascular health of the patient. Otherwise, what's the point of all these expensive supplements and things? And these are just other strategies, other than saying, okay, get this device, get the supplement, the biggest thing I want you to hear is address the underlying pathophysiology, address the underlying medical issues, optimize their health with comprehensive protocols. And as a result of optimizing their health, you actually will have enhanced quality and clinical outcomes of your esthetic procedures, nutritional intervention for glycocalyx health, we already talked about this, and pharmaceutical interventions. I'm not a big fan of throw some meds on board, but if that's your cup of tea, feel free to check that out side. We had talked about that a couple weeks ago. So lifestyle modifications again, exercise, sleep optimization, stress, smoking cessation. Guys, sleep is imperative for glycocalyx quality and for PRF quality. Sleep deprivation increases inflammatory markers, oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction. So here's an example of a pre procedure optimization protocol. And here's the thing, guys, they can come actually to your office. You can do your initial consult, you can make your game plan, and you can tell them, hey, I really think that we should start you on a peer F protocol for XYZ. However, that being said, I want to make sure that your peer F is as optimized as possible so it works the best it can. They can still start the pure F treatments that day, but ideally, your goal is to optimize it with, you know, lifestyle modifications, Mediterranean diet, making sure they're not smoking, stress management, which is why I have that bioharmonic bed, cellular vibration and neuroplasticity, but you know, you really want to optimize it to get the best result. And so six to eight weeks before you're going to be targeting that, I start patients on the supplements, even if they don't want to take the microvascular health test to see the before and after of the improvement, because I want to know blindfolded that when I'm injecting this PRF, it's working the best it can for the patient. So I start them on that supplement for microvascular health. At the same time, we were talking about peptides earlier in the evening, I do epigenetic testing to tell S and P systems and inflammatory markers that we can turn on and off for optimization and encourage hydration. And, you know, just metabolic control, so low glycemic index, ensure adequate hydration. Obviously, that's going to be different if somebody has heart failure issues or kidney issues, but, you know, hydration is imperative. Resveratrol is a great thing to add to that actually helps with pigment, but it also helps with the component of the glycocalyx. Garlic extract is excellent. And so then, weeks before the PRF, you know, you've got them hydrated, they're sleeping. And the coolest thing is, you're actually helping. Sorry, my dog decided to come in here. You're actually helping the patient with their quality of life. But the esthetic aspect, too. So the business model is beautiful, because you're really healing the patients. And what did we talk about at the beginning of this lecture? Why did we go into medicine to help people? It's just an added bonus that you're optimizing their health for an esthetic result also. So the week of the PRF, you know, make sure that there didn't have a recent illness. I would reschedule it If so, because the quality is not going to be as good. And the day of the pure F, I have them avoid caffeine two to four hours before. And the biggest thing with pure F is that you immediately want to process it because it can affect, actually the COAG cascade and actually the growth factor. And you ideally want to do it from eight to 11 in the morning, because that's where the platelet function peaks according to circadian rhythm. Okay, we're almost done, guys, hang in. You're doing great. Hopefully no one's asleep and that you're all still here. Here's an example of a patient, right? So how does this like? You know, glycocalyx optimization impact the PRF and the outcome for the patient. So it had a 50 year old female. She came for facial rejuvenation with platelet rich fiber, and she heard I was this cool lady that works on the East Coast who does this magic with PRF. Just kidding. On medical intake, she's a type two diabetic. Her hemoglobin agency was 8.2 and she has a 20 year history of smoking, but she quit three months ago. So congratulations to that. And she's got some mild hypertension, so if you didn't have a microvascular health, you know, scan you could do, you could check your your syndicate one levels. And I used to do that before hers was elevated. I don't do that now, because it kind of sends in a wild goose chase. But hers was slightly elevated, and we know that means glycocalyx shedding, her CRP was elevated, and her fasting glucose is elevated. So, you know, another example would be if on the microvascular health score, their PBR, and that actually has to do with perfused boundary region where the actual the red blood cells are invading into the wall of that glycocalyx, or PBR, is 2.4 we like to see it less than two. Greater than two. We actually see cardiac issues down the road, and it's kind of a 10 year precursor to inflammatory cardiac issues. So that was elevated, and it's likely secondary to, you know, all the above. So basically, I recommended that she did a 12 week optimization protocol, including a Mediterranean diet. I had her see a dietitian started on supplement NAC, not NAD NAC, don't get me on my soapbox about that vitamin C and exercising, and it can just be walking. You guys exercising and just be walking, and including mindfulness while they're walking. And I always encourage a buddy with someone when they're walking. So her outcomes post procedure, and I'll show you her pictures in a second, but her syndicate one decreased her CRP, decreased her in glory and C decreased her fasting glucose was 112 her PBR went from, you know, the upper levels of two to 1.8 so she's really healing within and then her PRF quality, when we evaluated it showed that she had more growth factors. So she had 65% higher concentration of her growth factor, significantly with pdgf and 48% of TGF beta and 73% higher ed VEGF, which actually is the lowest part of pure F, so usually don't have a ton of edge off, but basically she an exceptional tissue response to visible improvement and her skin texture, volume and quality at the four week mark, why is that platelet rich fiber and that growth factor slowly improves over 28 days. So I used to do patient satisfaction scores. I don't anymore, just manage expectations and try to do the best of my ability. But, you know, typically we see a score of 9.5 versus seven or eight with similar, you know, with similar procedures, without optimization. And this is the picture of her on the left, she came to me and wanted filler, and filler being like that, bio, pure F, the heated PR F, or hyaluronic filler. And I said, let's work on your skin, and let's work on your health. So the neat thing to me of this is that now she's quit smoking. She's a runner. This was only 16 weeks into a protocol that I developed with injectable on topical PRF. But look how that scaffold look. How much is more youthful. She looks even, you know, like her nasally real folds her her jowls, her fine lines and wrinkles. It's just like a different person. But I also believe it's because Healing Within it's this opportunity we have to optimize her health, and so she's a healthier person. Again, it's just this reiteration of just treatment responses and monitoring. So where's the future direction? My hope in this is that you will use your good faith exam, your history and physical if you're practicing esthetics, to actually optimize the patient's health. We have time more so than someone who has to see 40 patients a day, I maybe see six people a day, and we have an opportunity. It's God gives us such a, you know, a blessed opportunity to spend quality time and to optimize and educate our patients on the importance of, yes, we can do this protocol with your own selves, but if you're not healthy within or you're not optimized, you're not going to get a good as a result. And combination therapies are the strategies that I choose, and I always say slow and steady wins the race. We age every day. So when people ask, how long does it last? It depends. We age every day. And at the age of 35 our skin cell cycle flows down tremendously. So I recommend monthly treatments, and it has to see that 1228, again. To reiterate, I think at beginning, I told you guys I do like a biohack membership, but it there really isn't, quote, biohacking. It needs to be all the time, but it's a way to get people involved and see how they feel better about themselves. But regular follow ups are imperative for compliance, and it allows you to adjust their protocols based on the patient's response and the tolerance. If they're not compliant, you're not going to get a good outcome. But have found that if people understand the why, they're more compliant, and believe it or not, it actually changes their pain with procedures, they don't hurt us that way. This just talks about it being cost effective. So average cost is about 450 for a 12 week protocol, including supplements testing, yada yada, standard PRF procedure. You guys 1200 bucks cost of goods to actually do it with the disposables, not counting your centrifuge or your biohazard weight, 1200 bucks, and it's about $30 that's a nice return.

Speaker 1  1:10:13
And additionally, the RE treatment reduction was 45% so you're seeing fewer repeat procedures needed if the fear of is optimized. However, I see that the patients come more often. We've created this game plan, right? So for like hair restoration, I say usually, three to six treatments every four to eight weeks, and you're, you're, you know, overlapping that 28 day cycle. But here's the thing, you're also giving a net savings to the patient, and you're helping heal them, health wise. So longevity, you know, quality of life, a number, versus actually, truly living a couple more pictures really quickly. So two sessions and still growing. So people always say, Why does your PRF? Why does it work? Mine's not working. I say, I pray with my patients. But I also say, optimize. They're like, Okay, looks, this is a patient only with two sessions. You can see the hair restoration is pretty impressive. This next one is crazy, and I can't tell you how I replicated this as much as optimizing glycocalyx, but this person had Alopecia Areata totalis. She had tried steroids, PRP, she tried lasers, and this is one treatment. It's kind of crazy. I can't guarantee that result, but I can tell you, it's pretty darn awesome when you see somebody who is teary eyed to having a mullet. So takeaways for your practice, pure prff represents superior technology. It's relatively inexpensive, more than anything, even if you're doing PRP or other autologous cell therapies, optimizing the patient's health is imperative, and you're going to just get better outcomes and better compliance, because they actually see a difference and they feel better. Remember that glycocalyx determines the quality of the PRF. So after I started optimizing that glycocalyx, and I would start to see that little yellow booger snot come back. And so earlier in the lecture, I talked about, you know, how nasal spreader graphs, that's how strong the PRF is when it was just yellow, clear. Can you imagine that being strong? It's not so it was a blessing. And I'm embarrassed to say this, but I have no shame. I ugly cried when I first saw someone's PRF quality improving because I thought, oh, job security. Just kidding. Actually thought, we're going to make it. We're going to be okay because we have healing factors that are coming back. The body is pretty forgiving. And then lastly, remember, personalization maximizes success. So really tailoring, optimizing protocols, taking into fact, like the patient's risk factors, their comorbidities, their compliance, what's realistic? I always say, you know, when my kids were little, we would have organic whole like grass fed, you know, XYZ, and then I'd go to Slurpee Sundays and get 25 cent Slurpees at the gas station. So it has to be a realistic lifestyle for the patient, otherwise they won't be compliant. So consider your glycocalyx assessment as a standard of care, if you're offering pure F therapies, especially if the patient has identifiable risk factors for endothelial dysfunction, which I think we all do. Here are some references for further reading, any questions, and here's my contact info. Thank you guys, so much for the opportunity.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:22
Thank you. Wow. So I've been, I've been doing esthetics for quite a while. Also, I wandered into a class in Florida in 2000 and they said, Here, why don't we show you how to shoot stuff in people's faces and get rid of wrinkles? I said, What you talking about? Willis, right, turned out to be Botox, but we didn't really know at the time. I called a plastic surgeon friend of mine who hadn't he hadn't even heard of it at that point,

Speaker 1  1:13:52
a lot. I really don't use much Botox in my practice, actually,

Bill Clearfield  1:13:55
so, but a lot of the lot of the patients that at least come to me, I want this done, and I want it done now. And so how do you handle a 15 week or 12 week induction as as you've, you know, outlined here. I understand it myself, but what percentage of of you know, potential clients do you lose? And before you say, well, if they're going to go away, I don't want them, I understand

Speaker 1  1:14:27
that. I don't say that. No, no, I want them. I'm selfish and knowing it's an opportunity to heal somebody. And I didn't mean to cut you off, but to me, it's see it as an opportunity and a challenge. You know, when a patient walks in, we, you know, we know that 70% of patients, after being injected three times, don't return. So there needs to be some type of game plan, or they're going to just bounce from office to office. And that's why the educational component is so huge. So here's the thing, I know, that with the protocol I developed, it takes 16 weeks for the skin to restore itself, if they're coming every month, and it's almost like a diet, right? If you have four women, and they all you know, are in a group, and one of them does this diet, they come back, they look amazing. Everyone's going to want to do what their friends doing. They're kind of pissed they didn't start at the beginning. So I would say I probably have a 98% conversion rate that people actually do the program, but I would say it's because of word of mouth. And so it's seeing that these brand ambassadors is what I call them, or these hens that actually go out and spread the word that this is legit. It works, and we age every day. And so you know it, I would tell you it's I give them a game plan, I write a quote, right? And they know that I'm not going to really sway from that actual game plan. They believe I've had them leave, and they'll maybe piecemeal some things that I've recommended, but they always go back to the drawing board of completing everything. So I would go ahead, sorry.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:01
The best ones are the ones that leave and then they went to this clinic and that clinic and come back and say, sorry, I left. And I always do, yes, I always do the Seinfeld thing where, you know, he, he went to a different Barber, and the barber, he was cheating on him, well.

Speaker 1  1:16:15
And I always tell people too, it's, you know, it's the same, even just in social settings. Sometimes we find friends because we want them to to agree with what we're saying, but it's the real person who tells you things you don't want to hear. And you know, my job is to be an advocate for the patients, and they may not hear, I might not tell them everything they want to hear, but I'm going to always act in their best interest. And so I would say, you know, once people are in the clinic with me for about 16 weeks, at least. They stay forever. And I know that sounds really cocky, but they really do, because it's hard to find somebody who doesn't do a drive by shooting. But the funny thing is, in a business model, you would think that by saying, yes, let's see the Botox go, you actually lose your booty. Botox is not it's not business friendly. You actually lose money, unless you're diluting it, and you're actually not getting at the root cause. And if you think about people, when they look really funky, it's because they've just had toxin and filler, toxin and filler. So if you don't, if you go to the gym and you work out, you build muscle. If you can't build muscle, what happens? Muscle atrophies. So you just have atrophied face, right? And just puffy. So I encourage, you know, just educational seminars, talking to the patients, reiterating educational information, understanding the why and that we age every day, and making game plans. But where my business model has somewhat, you know, it's kind of congealed nicely together is that, you know, we have to do that good faith exam. And so by doing that good faith exam and giving a regenerative opportunity, you really can address more than just one thing. So I think it was Jeanette or DR is it Serna earlier that was saying, you know, she does functional medicine. To me, esthetics is the bridge for that. It's an opportunity to combine, you know, it's the greatest opportunity, from a business standpoint, to help the patient on all levels.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:07
Yes, Dr Burgess

Speaker 5  1:18:12
might make a noise. Sorry about that. Hey, great talk. That was impressive. Oh, thank you. Thank you so much. Now, our brilliant Dr Tano has met his match.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:31
Oh, I think, Hey, by

Speaker 5  1:18:33
the way, and I do a lot of pain stuff. And just you mentioned lidocaine briefly, and I was wondering if you're using any topical anesthetic for scars at all, and just because of pain, do you do any deep stuff

Speaker 1  1:18:50
for scars or deep pain? Explain more

Speaker 5  1:18:56
scars totally in the skin, all scars intradermal? Oh, yes, yes, yes, yeah. So, and you can use procaine or the lidocaine, whatever, but we also do, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:19:12
I just see for hyperpigmentation. So skin of color, melanated skin, if you use anything other than lidocaine, if you use benzene or tetracaine, it hyper pigments the skin. So that's a big no no in esthetics. So that's the biggest thing I would say that I caution with topical or injectable agents. But, and I know that you are a big fan. I've heard your lectures before. You know you talking about almost like the crown, right, of for pain and things like that. I holistically believe in that with all my heart. I just know that lidocaine is set a toxic to cells. So if I was going to be injecting pure F I wouldn't have the Lidocaine with it, with scarred hesio lysis, or like, actual breakdown of the scars. I'll do micro cannulas, and I actually then use hyper dilute, pure F's. We're not volumizing it, but we're actually creating a scaffold and tightening and so what you don't want to do, though, is cause, almost like a boon to hiss, or, if it's like, let's say, a C section scar, you don't want to prematurely be treating that area. But I do basically a microcanal Scar, takedown and stage it, basically with the PRF and hyper dilute saline. Does that answer your question?

Speaker 5  1:20:22
Yeah. But I think I should mention, because you mentioned the pigmentation, the result of doing this for 40 years, according to the German standards, is that what we notice 1000s and 1000s of times. If the scar is lighter than the normal skin color, it becomes darker. If it's darker than the normal skin color, it becomes lighter, so it tends to camouflage itself back into the skin. It really does.

Speaker 1  1:20:46
Yeah, absolutely. And I would say the neatest thing, and I do not, this is anecdotal. I do not have clinical, you know, studies on this. But what was fascinating to me with peer F over the past, you know what, 10 years I've been doing this, is that I've had people come with burns and hypopigmentation, right? So even vitiligo and they want the color back, right? And so when the glycocalyx is optimized, actually, I've seen the color come back and a scar that is completely just hypopigmented out. And so I had a woman that actually had a tattoo around her arm, like an indigenous banding. And she had just for tattoo removal. It was hypo pigmented. And I said, I can't guarantee the, you know, the pigment will come back, but we can try and see if it helps with the inflammation. Sure enough, I kid you not. And I should have videoed it, but the pigment came back into her, her, you know, her skin, her melanin, and so, you know, it's, kind of crazy what you see with and I can't guarantee that result, just like the woman that had the semi mullet after the one treatment of peer I have, I can't guarantee that with everyone, but I can guarantee that if they optimize their health, their results will be better. And Germans are German men are always right. You know that? I'm just kidding.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:00
Dr Collins, no farts true,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:03
so someone wanted to put their last slide up for your contact information.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:16
All right now tell us what 1228 means

Unknown Speaker  1:22:22
that Yep, you're muted.

Speaker 1  1:22:27
So 1228, is the first in vitro baby in the United States. And my daughters are in vitro miracles, IVF miracles. And then also, I'm a Christian. Don't get me wrong. I love Jesus, but I would be stricken in the quality with a glass of wine. I am not perfect by any means, but Corinthians 1228, is a complete chapter in the Bible on using our spiritual gifts to serve others. And so it's about servanthood. And as God would have it, our skin cell cycle in our 20s is 28 days. At the age of 35 it slows down. And so we're just putting dead skin on dead skin. And so I went back to the drawing board and found that if I alternated certain procedures, self neutralizing peels with boosters, optimizing patients health micro needling with hypochlorous every 28 days for 12 months, it completely restored the skin. And actually it's at the 16 week mark. We call it the sweet 16. So the skin from the bottom to the top is completely restored. So with one procedure every 28 days for 12 months. Just happens to be a protocol or a patent that I have for procedure, and then get this lprf settings for the centrifuge, or 12 minutes, 2800 rpms. And that weird. So it's just kind of serendipitous, and that's what it is. It actually came from just IVF baby and and also just the Bible verse, but it's actually a protocol too.

Bill Clearfield  1:23:51
Somebody asked about what's the difference between PRF and prfm?

Speaker 1  1:23:56
So prfm is somewhat a cell fill. It's Excel file. Would be an example. You're actually added in. There's an additive component. It's, it's, it's a lot, takes a lot, heck of a lot longer, and it's a lot more expensive for your disposables. To me, it, quote, doesn't work as well. It's something foreign. I'm all about using your cells, your own cells, the best you know, the most you can, because you don't have rejection issues. But cell phone would be an example of PFM.

Speaker 6  1:24:23
Could you put up the page that shows the books to put the reference books? Sure, let me see. Excuse me.

Speaker 4  1:24:33
Sorry. And to add to that, the prfm also is like a structural filler, so it has slower degradation. It can be put under the eyes, things illegal posing, also like scar depressions. So just other functions for that.

Speaker 1  1:24:50
Oh my gosh, yes. Yeah, it's beautiful. I use it as a filler all the time, yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:54
How much blood do you need to draw for, for, you know, a typical, you know, facial treatment?

Speaker 1  1:24:59
That's a great question. So we know that in men, you know, hermatic, it's gonna be higher, you're gonna get less component of that, the PR, F, so you have to pull more tubes. But I would say, you know, if they're hydrated, typically, if I'm doing, you know, a micro needling session and a little bit of injectable, it's two tubes. They come in 1310, MLS. There's nothing proprietary to like, Oh, it's 13 MLS or 10. It's just, it's think about it. The more tubes you're going to just have more platelet or alpha granules. So I can, I can send a list of, like, Okay, if you're doing hair restoration, you need 12 tubes. Or I always just say the tubes is the size of a palm for the hair restoration for a male. To me, if you're going to treat a big area, you're just spreading out your fertilizer too thin, or you're hyper diluting it. So I treat the head and concentration areas, unless it's that sweet lady who came by for a one time thing and I did all over but just managing expectations of knowing if you stay in a shorter, smaller surface area, keep in mind, just like so the palm size would be two tubes. Two to four tubes. Makes sense.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:02
Okay, I always seem to get get mixed up you when you do that, when you do the spin. I don't mean if you could find that, that slide where you have the final product of the of this, of this, of this, of the test tube. Yes.

Speaker 1  1:26:18
And you know what, I'm so glad you brought that up because I believe that we're going to be seeing a lot more of horizontal or bucket centrifuge spends, because what I noticed after covid Or even exposure to vaccine, I don't know if you're still recording, and hopefully this

Speaker 2  1:26:32
is okay to talk about this. We're still recording. Do we need

Speaker 1  1:26:35
to? Do? We need to end it? Yeah, let's end so we can talk some off labels.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:39
Back to Collins. Thank you so much that fabulous talk. And we will, we will definitely be having you back. This is, this is the product of being competent, as we ask you back. It's like nobody asks me to help them fix anything around their house. The second time I

Speaker 1  1:26:58
actually burnt my fiance's, you know, clothing item, so I never had to iron again.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:06
So we were painting, and I acquired the moniker of the Mad dripper. There you go. It's

Speaker 1  1:27:12
probably a blessing don't have to do it again. No, I love teaching. I'm so humbly thankful to be able to be here and to share.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:17
Thank you so much for being, yeah, for being with us. The last you know, since, since you've joined us, you're a great asset.

Speaker 1  1:27:24
I'm the obnoxious question, like, ask five other questions, but that's

Unknown Speaker  1:27:28
okay. We're off now. Now you're good to go.

Speaker 1  1:27:30
Okay, guys, so this is so crazy. So I could tell with the PRF who had had which vaccine, how many they had, it was the craziest it's and the people that I'd be training would think, like, this lady is full of crap. There's no way. And, you know, I would pull the patient before, and we'd look at their blood and see it after. And so that picture with the centrifuge with, you know, fixed angle versus horizontal. It used to be that you could dip in with the 18 gage one and a half with the three muscle wrench and pull it out, and you could get right to that little boogery area. And it was so strong, you would not pull up the red blood cells well, with covid or lipid envelope virus exposure or poor glycocalyx, if you barely moved it, the red blood cell would come up. And you don't want hemosiderin stain, because it would just, you know, talk about pigmenting the face. It would just be, you know, like a look at a bad bruise that stains the skin. So I wasted so many tubes initially, because of dipping down and getting a little confident or cocky and being like, Ah, I can get a little more juice and then boop, it'd be all red. So we had to change it to a double spin, because it would push down the red blood cell more so you could get more out. But to me, it has to do with the quality. It was like, Okay, if I, if I have red blood cell coming up, and it's not staying separate, it's not as good of quality, which then tells me they're like, Okay, looks isn't as healthy, which I need to intervene from a functional, you know, standpoint.

Speaker 2  1:28:54
So you do, do you use a kit for that?

Speaker 1  1:28:56
Or I make my own kits. And so I used to work with different companies, and they're very sweet people, but I got frustrated, because, again, I'm like the Katniss of esthetics, and I'm, you know, I grew up as parents, as teachers, and it was like, God's your boss. You tell the truth. And to me, as we're all medical professionals, I cannot look somebody in the face and go, Okay, you're going to spend $100 on a kit when I know good and well that you just need a centrifuge, and you can make it for $17 so I make my own kits.

Speaker 2  1:29:24
Use red top tubes. Is that what you use? I use so it

Speaker 1  1:29:27
depends on their vaccine status. And I know that sounds really weird, but I can't like the red tops. And so if you get audited, you want to have sterile tubes, obviously, because infection risk and such, people are making a small fortune now just selling tubes. It's hilarious. Bio pure f actually has it. It's over in Europe, and it makes it to where it's maybe $1 to $2 a tube. And so they come in 13 MLS or 10 MLS. The 13 MLS are a little more expensive, but that's where I get my tubes. You can get a, I think, a box of 100 of those tubes, and they come in packs of two. So let's say I'm doing microneedling with pure F, my peer F, you know, topical, I would charge 250 I only need two tubes, and it's less than seven bucks, and then just your Vacutainer, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:14
and any particular, since we're off in any particular brand of centrifuge, did you like?

Speaker 1  1:30:18
No, not at all. I mean, it's funny, you'd see $10,000 centrifuges and Amazon centrifuge see certified. You could use your lab for you just have to change the RCF, the RPM, you know, that whole calculation and that chart, and you just change your time and speed. Okay, okay. And that crazy. It's bananas, yeah. I

Bill Clearfield  1:30:40
mean, and so to me that the little clot that you're using doesn't really yield that much of a

Speaker 1  1:30:46
so that's the solid PR F we're doing. If it's injectable or LPR F, it's actually more liquid. But that's where to when I was training for those other companies. I'm like, Guys, this is not legit. These settings are not appropriate because they're turning into clot. And so, you know, with covid, it really changed the whole game plan for what our settings were. And that's where I started researching and doing different settings and looking and seeing, okay, what was this composed of? It was a small, expensive experiment, but that's why it's so funny, that the lprf of 12 minutes, 2800 RPMs, if you'll want to write that down, is your is your go to setting, because 1228, it was just like, Okay, that's a little creepy, but yeah, 12 minutes, 2800 rpms. And then I do a second spin for two minutes, 2800 rpms.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:34
Now do you do you change the tube, or you just use the same tube?

Speaker 1  1:31:37
When you same tube, same tube, super easy and then I take a three ml, pop the top off. Some people will go through the plastic. That little rubber stopper to me, I just envision shards of rubber, and it just freaks me out. So I pop the top off. Dip in. They have. Dr Chan has these, like little cooling things. You can put them in. You could use a, I just pop, just, yeah, you could put it and make it colder. But some people, you know, clot faster, obviously. Or if somebody's drinking a lot, you can tell they've had a good night at the bar, because they never just continuing to inject, you know, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:15
and question about how you run your labs, cash or insurance.

Speaker 1  1:32:20
I don't do insurance, so it's cash paste. However, I will advocate for the patient and say, Okay, I have a sheet, a cheat sheet, and it's like, okay, if they go through their insurance, it costs this much. If they go through, you know, full script, it's really, I should probably be charging more. I just charge an interpretation fee. And I used to just do it for free, but I'm learning time is an exchange of energy, and I don't want to be a grouch to my patients. It's my fault if I'm offering things and not charging them, and then get pissy, so I'm cash pay. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:50
okay. Someone also asked him if you mind showing the spin chart again?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:56
Oh, not at all. And I can send it out to you as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:00
Get me the slides, right? I have this. Yeah, you

Speaker 1  1:33:03
can, you can share the slides. Absolutely, okay, put it on the website. Yeah, you can do whatever you want, just nobody come after me. Big Pharma wise, if you're a PRF company, they have to get through us first. There we go. I have the mafia family, right? Website is aosrd.org

Bill Clearfield  1:33:18
and it's slash webinars. And when the video is ready, usually takes me 24 to 48 hours to get the video up. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:33:26
And then I have a training site too, and it has, I can give you guys a code where it could just be like, you know, I'll get with you, Dr Clearfield, to give you a code just for people to access it that attended this webinar, and they don't have to pay for it.

Speaker 2  1:33:41
Okay, terrific. Yeah. We always like, we always like, codes,

Speaker 1  1:33:47
pay it forward. I would say, God's My boss will take care of the bills. I just want to be able to just do what I love. So I'm very thankful.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:54
One of these days I attempted it once when AI first came out, is to take all our videos. We have, like, we've been doing this for five years. Wow, over 2022, we started doing this, and I think I've missed one no last year, Christmas Eve, and New Year's Eve was Tuesday night. So I just said I'm not doing this. And so we have most of the videos, you know, for all the way from back. So I was going to try to extract all the information and put it, put it into some sort of, like, you know, booklet or training manual. So I think it would be, I don't know, might be helpful to somebody.

Speaker 1  1:34:33
Yeah, no, it actually would. And, you know, Gracia, the real deal. It's, I love this. Every Tuesday night I used to have a Bible study, and I bailed, because I love coming.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:43
I know Lightning might strike us. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:47
Dr, Nario, you got any online

Speaker 4  1:34:49
questions? Yeah, so. Dr, Joni, you kind of really got our people's interest about PRF, but I got a lot of questions about, I guess, in conjunction with so as you can see, the flexibility of PRF, you could do so many things along with it. So I know exosomes are out there, even sometimes stem cells. So in your practice, what combinations are you basically doing, in terms of like you're also injecting this, you're giving this type of complementary therapy. So what combos Do you like?

Speaker 1  1:35:22
So I'm a purist at heart, and until my dad had a stroke two years ago, I'd say, use your own cells only. You are a walking, beautiful miracle. You know of your own cells, but I had an incident where we I had my partnering physician had taken my dad's fat cells and sent it for replication, and they lost his cells, so when he had a stroke, we couldn't use his we took my fat stem cells and we actually sent them off a replication. And while that timing was, you know that that waiting period, we didn't have anything we could use. So I this is way off label, but there's a product that's off the shelf allograft called cresca, and it is an esthetic product. It's beautiful. If you guys get in touch with me, I can get you with the it's a very small company, but it's it's incredible. If I were investing in a business and I had every penny I was spend it on that company, it's off the shelf allograft. It's incredible. It saved my dad's life. I use it actually, in patients that have malformation or cancer where they've had a resection of an area. I use PDO threads, almost like a coral reef, to then use PRF, and I use the cresca there, so it wakes up the fat paths and it creates volume. But off label, it's incredible for inflammatory states.

Speaker 4  1:36:48
That's interesting. Cresco, okay, I have a question here about NAD and also PRF, there has been news about it in terms of the combo. There's so many different ways in how you do it. I think there are also some practitioners injecting NAD with PRF, some of them, I guess IEP also post PRF. What are your thoughts? Have you done this?

Speaker 1  1:37:12
You know, it's actually funny. I actually gave myself NAD and I thought was gonna have a heart attack. I'm more of an NAC advocate NAD to me. You know, I think we're trying to throw too much at the body, let the body do what it does. And to me, you know, if you were getting an IV treatment of something, that'd be different. It's kind of past the fact of what we're doing. If you're optimizing the patient, the self will do its job. I think the biggest thing is we try to add too much crap in there, just let it do its job.

Speaker 4  1:37:38
Yeah, right. And I think another one, I think it was related to the discussion that we had last week or two weeks ago that, I think it was the product arterial cell. I think we were talking about glycocalyx, yes, remnant sulfate is the first thing that we think about. So I think that's what. There was actually more of a comment, but, yeah, oh, I

Speaker 1  1:38:00
see, like, cruciferous vegetables, you know, sulfur rain, those kind of things. Is that we're talking about doing that the same time. So optimizing is what they're saying. Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:38:09
I mean, they're using oral now in terms, I would do it

Speaker 1  1:38:12
proactively rather than the same time, make sure it's preventative. It starts at the beginning, like, give it a six week heads up, instead of doing it with that same day, because it's not going to acutely go, whoo, everything's going to be great, right? So I measure, I just have a little pop up there. I measure glycocalyx health with the glyco check. I have a microvascular health score device. And actually, last weekend, I was in Palm Beach with Hans Fink, Dr Vink, who developed it, and I probably drove him bananas with my 5000 questions all weekend. But you don't have to have the device, guys. You can just optimize them with the product. I'm just one of those that likes to show the patient the proof is in the pudding. And when they see their health score improve and they see their PBR inflammatory score go down, they're going to be more compliant. Otherwise, they're just kind of trusting you, which my patients do, but you don't have to get the device, you know, they can tell the way they feel, and you can see the difference in the PRF quality, right, right? I misunderstood your

Speaker 4  1:39:10
question. Oh, no, no, that's fine. I think they're also, yeah, they were curious about how to optimize the glycocalyx there.

Speaker 1  1:39:16
Yeah, I use revaska. I use revaska. And so arterial still actually was the first generation of I believe this is what I know to my knowledge. If I'm wrong, please correct me. But Bob long is the CEO of one of the companies, and he actually helped with that patent. They actually have arterial soul. Then it went to endocalyx Pro. Endocalis Pro still available. And then there's root basket. So I like the revasca because they had an aloe component that they added into it, and they actually, I'm not a big capsule person, and it just pill fatigue is a real thing. Yeah, there's companies out there that can put your pills together and all that junk. But I like to go hiking, and so I would take my little bottle, like little and put in this powder that they now have from revaska. So it actually tastes really nice. And I put a little bit of jaimeka, or like, hibiscus leaf that's dried, kind of gets a cinnamon taste, and it tastes amazing. So I do that. So I'll take, like, two capsules in the morning, and then at night or in the afternoon, I'll use the powdery component, but it tastes good, and it's kind of like a little sweet treat. Every basket just came out with that. Out with that. What, what? Who makes rivaska? Rivaska is made by, oh, gosh, I'm terrible. See this is where I'm like, I don't know. Rivaska is made by shoot, the glycocalyx Institute. And what I like about this, with them, and even endocalyx Pro prior, is to me as an entrepreneur, you know, and I can give you my code or whatever, and you guys can become affiliates if you want. Basically, they drop ship it. So you just have a link and it gets dropped shipped because it's, you know, I have some in the office that I know patients won't, you know, be compliant if they don't have direct access. But to me from a you know, money's money, and so if you're buying all this, you're only getting a minimal return from your cash standpoint. Use it for their areas. I'll put in the chat my link, and then if you guys want, I can get you in touch with them to give you affiliate stuff I have, whoops, I have no idea how all of that works. I'm terrible. That's why I'll never probably be a millionaire, because I'm terrible about all these affiliate things that I have, and then I don't do it. I just believe in stuff. There's that right there. But you can also email me and I'll get you in touch. It's a great way to optimize the patient, but you're not having to take out of your pocket. So let's say like, heaven forbid, covid happened again. You know, it's a dispose of, you know, there's not a disposable from you. It's going straight there. They drop ship glyco check. I don't have a link to that, but I, because I had to beg them, no joke, for me, to get the device. I think I stalked him for three years, because they mainly use it at universities. It's, from a business standpoint, is probably not the most brilliant thing to have. It's a $25,000 device, but I, you know, start that with that biohacking membership, and I charge 350 but half the time I give it away. For the love of Pete, I'm so terrible about it. Folks.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:15
Put some links on for revesca So it's in the chat.

Speaker 4  1:42:18
Okay? This is for my own, I guess, personal, selfish ways. So I noticed that you actually consider the comorbidities of a patient in relation to before giving PRF. So what is your what is the this point that, for example, the diabetic patient that you have that they are ready for PRF. What are the parameters that you follow now? Okay, I think we're good in terms of controlling your comorbidities.

Speaker 1  1:42:48
So I would just say, I use it kind of as a carrot to improve their health. I know that's really manipulative, but to me, it's like our job as providers is to make people healthier, and if I know that their their sweet spot is they want to do the PRF. I use it as an opportunity to kind of get them healthier, right? But I'm also very realistic. I would say it depends on each person. There's a there's, you know, there's a fine line of when people are like, screw this. I can't do anything. I'm miserable, I'm sad, I'm going to go home. So you have to kind of find that psychological balance of like, okay, I'm going to tell you this. I'm going to use this as a carrot for you to make good choices. I'm so straightforward, I have zero filter, and so I will say that, Okay, listen, I care about you tremendously, believe it or not, and XYZ is going to put you at risk down the road, I want you to do the PRF. It's not going to work as well unless you're healthier. So we can do it today, and you can spend your money. And great, thanks for the money. But I'm not going to sleep well tonight, because I know I just put albumin in your know I just put all human in your face. However, use it as a motivation to improve, and you can continue it. Then there's really no hard stop of like, yes or no. It's more of just managing expectations and their budget or what the you know, if to me, if they only that's a one shot like, this. Is it? This is the money I have, you know, it's I'd rather than invest in actually their glycocalyx, or even just like a revascular product, because, to me, it's more realistic for long term, big picture. And I'm very straightforward in that. And from a business standpoint, is that smart? Absolutely not, because I lose my butt, but at the end of the day I sleep.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:18
Well, it's a morally acceptable black male. There we go, right.

Speaker 4  1:44:27
But anyway, good presentation. Dr Joni, again, we're going to have you, I think Dr Bill locked you in already, so he's going to ask you for that dates, for sure.

Speaker 1  1:44:36
But, and you know, this is interesting about your infertility with the glycocalyx. So I've had four patients who went through infertility, had improved gleco Calix with root basket and got pregnant.

Speaker 4  1:44:46
Okay, let's not give away rivaska, then family planning will be destroyed.

Speaker 1  1:44:51
But I do actually tell people that I'm like easy there, if you're doing you know, be careful, or if you don't want to paint your nails every week, because your hair will grow longer and your nails will grow longer so

Unknown Speaker  1:45:03
well, thank you again. Amazing presentation.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:05
I'm very thankful for you

Speaker 2  1:45:07
all. How about January 20 for a follow up?

Unknown Speaker  1:45:11
See, I told you

Speaker 1  1:45:12
I might have a hot date with my fiance. Then I'm just kidding. Sure January sounds amazing, just remind me, because I'm a spaz, but I'll put it on my calendar tomorrow.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:21
Okay. Great. Okay, right? This was fabulous. We will have the video ready when, you know, as soon as I can, we'll send you the contact information. Also, I have your slides, if you don't mind, we'll, we'll put that on on line. And you said something about a code for something?

Speaker 1  1:45:40
Yeah, this is the site for training. I'm putting it there. I have to make one. I have to populate it. So I will populate it tomorrow at my office, because all my Kajabi stuff is there. But so you can see what the offerings are. It's trained with 122, eight.com. Okay, okay, just promise me the deal is, if we're doing all this secret stuff, just be good to your mom and help your patients. Like just, please promise me, if we're getting all this free advice, which order do the right thing in which order my mom be your be there for your mama first, right? There you go.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:16
My mom always said to me, you know you should know what you're doing by now you've been doing it longer heard that

Speaker 1  1:46:25
absolutely but no, pay it forward. Help people with scars. It really is a tremendous opportunity to help people big picture.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:32
No, I can't thank you enough, and expect us to lean on you when we have more time to plan a bigger conference than the one.

Speaker 1  1:46:42
Oh, thank you. I'd love to do hands on class, you know, Michael cannulas and all that,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:46
in fact, so I've done that here a number of times, and we have a great time. You know, we keep the class small, like five tops, and we've had really, really fun times with that. So it's been a while, so we'll break bread here.

Speaker 1  1:47:05
Very cool. Yeah, I do one on one trainings all the time, and then that protocol I developed, part of it goes to a nonprofit. So, yeah, it's cool. Thank you guys so much.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:13
All right, everybody, thank you so much. Dr Collins, you know, it was just unbelievable.

Speaker 7  1:47:18
Dr Bill, could I get in a quickie? Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  1:47:21
was going to get to you next anyway.

Speaker 7  1:47:23
Oh, well, bless your heart. Great show. Just, do you use 30 gage needles? And is this sub q intradermal? Deep, all the above,

Speaker 1  1:47:33
all the above. And I would be happy to work with you on that. Just think about, if you're trying to wake up fat pads, you're going to go, you know, in the subcu area, you know, deep dermis for scars, yeah, just, just call me. We'll talk. I can help you over the phone. It's not hard,

Speaker 7  1:47:50
cool. Thank you very kindly. Great show. You. Oh, I didn't

Unknown Speaker  1:47:53
know it was a show, but sweet. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:57
Have a great night. We call it a show. No, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:59
Is a show. I appreciate it. Thank you guys so much. Thank

Bill Clearfield  1:48:02
you Collins, thank you enough. Okay, now back to the hard sell. We need you to send your to your email lists. This link, Congress of medical excellence, you're not

Speaker 4  1:48:17
showing it, Dr Bill, it's the pre procedure protocol that's showing

Unknown Speaker  1:48:23
Okay, here we go. Try it again.

Speaker 4  1:48:27
How about now? Got it now, waiting, processing, there. Okay, go.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:38
Got it go. Yep, okay. Alright, alright. Again, Congress of medical excellence.com, we need, we could always use a couple more sponsors. We have one breakfast, non CME sponsor, sponsorship left everything else that all the lunches are covered, and two of the two of the three breakfasts are covered. The agenda again, John or Dr Quinn, if you want to go over your day, first day there. Or Dr Tano, if you're here.

Speaker 5  1:49:13
Well, John birds is here. Hey, a lot of the things that will be spoken are not even on the agenda because they're going deep in some of these areas. So just how I mentioned that. So one of the big things that this group is going to do is introduce homeo puncture, which is all your homeopathic stuff that you and Mario, Mario are the bosses of with your group in Nevada. So we're going to hit homeopathy heavy, combined with acupuncture. And not many people know how to do it. And we're also going to introduce how to do it without needles, transdermally, safely. So I just thought I'd say that, because it's not on the agenda as it is listed,

Speaker 2  1:50:02
okay, well, where are we going to put it? I got it all filled up here. Where are we going to put

Speaker 5  1:50:09
it? I think what's going to happen. And I did speak with Kevin. We're probably going to have other meetings, not just in a year, but maybe six months, four months, and we could do a special program there, presentation on homeo puncture.

Speaker 2  1:50:26
Let's focus on on what we're doing in four weeks.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:32
All right, it's nothing. It's all good.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:35
I mean, if you guys want to change this,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:39
fine, just let me know.

Speaker 5  1:50:40
All right, Dr Quinn's boss, I'll let him talk. Thanks.

Speaker 8  1:50:44
Oh god no, I'm not, I'm not going to say anything other than a shameless plug right here. After, you know, my presentation, I'm going to talk a little bit about the apothecary and how we would carry some of these type of items, as Dr Burgess is fond of saying, you know, we've, we've got carriers for homeopathics, whether it's it's alcohol or DMSO or whatever, but a lot of the modern stuff, I guess we'll call it, is the energy through water as a carrier and as a shameless plug. I want you to know that when I dovetail into the part about cannabinoids and can aceticles. And I won't say this during the presentation, but I will afterwards that our company actually uses Homeopathics in our cannabinoid medicines, which no one else does out there. So it's going to, you know, kind of be a little bit interesting. And I think obviously in line with this conference,

Speaker 2  1:51:37
okay, okay, Dr Gerber, you're next.

Speaker 7  1:51:44
Are you there? Dr, Gerber, yeah, hi. Well, what am I? What would you like to hear from WA,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:52
just, you know? Dr, you know the your group's presentations, just maybe a brief overview and and wet the appetite of the audience so that they'll they'll be storming the the registration booth tonight.

Speaker 7  1:52:07
Well, particularly, we have Dr levy flying in from Colombia to do three hours for us, and he's got a new book out and about inflammation, we're very anxious to hear. I'm going to be doing, of course, with Dana Ullman, who always fascinates us with history of homeopathy and all the greatest celebrities and the popes and people who have utilized it, and recent homeopathic data showing the efficacy of homeopathy. And again, I'll reprise my parasites. I've updated that lecture a fair amount. And then, of course, Dr Devlin is going to tell us how to navigate integrative oncology, so that shift, and he's always come with new stuff, and he, I can't brag on him too much, but he has some wonderful transformations in people with their outcomes of cancer that have been very, very impressive. So it's always to get a good update, you know, on that. And Corazon is going to inspire us with some great new utilizations of homeopathic remedies. So should be a splendid day, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:53:31
And and we'll put it on here at 630 on Friday night, we're going to have that sit down dinner with entertainment, and then we'll, we'll get to schmooze and break bread and and Dr nary, do you want to talk about Friday, the integrative medicine portion?

Speaker 4  1:53:48
Yeah, so Friday, so we have this unknown guy named Dr Clearfield. It's actually opening up Saturday and ending it with his well opening and ending it because it's the last day for his 50 years in anti aging physician as an anti aging physician. So you definitely don't want to miss that. We got anti aging experts like Doctor Bill Andrews here, and then female hormone education, Doctor Felice Gersh and radian education. This one I like. I really learned a lot about this with Christian Kelly, because I have patients who has lung cancer in relation to radon exposure in their homes. And our favorite dentist here in town, integrative dentist, if I may say, Doctor Ramin homanfor, who will be sharing his experience with us. And our favorite homeopath, also, Dr Aaron Wolf and Greg Jones, is giving us education about ketamine therapies. And they're also a big, booming business here in town and and then to cap it off with a bang, Dr Marlene Siegel, with her veterinarian integrative medicine approaches that she will share with us. So that will be capping off the rest of the conference.

Speaker 8  1:54:54
Okay, there we go. Doctor Clearfield, can it? Can I have one more minute? Because I slided everybody else on my thing. I didn't know we were doing that. Yeah, I want to let everybody know that we've got some fantastic practitioners, as well as fantastic type of products. The Tobin that you see there from from Dr Tano, is an entire way to evaluate and treat people, obviously based on their need, their symptoms and as well as some preventative things, right Tobin, I mean, it's toxic overload, starting with that most of us here understand the value of detoxing people. And along those lines, as you see, this thing called the molecule that is by Dr Dimitri is an amazing thing. We've, we've had a couple of talks on that. Everybody really needs to hear this. This is a life change. This is a practice changer. This is, this is amazing. This is a way that heavy metals can be chelated in a safe and effective way. And it's mainly, I'll say the detrimental metals, you know, lead, mercury, arsenic, cadmium, gadolinium, all of these kind of things, while leaving the good metals intact. It's something that we really, really need to promote,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:13
alright, okay, great. And so by the end, by the by by Saturday night, everybody's going to be wailing and gnashing their teeth because they have to leave. And then I know a fair amount of you are going to be going to a 4m the next weekend, and you will be talking about our conference there as something special. And if you don't, we're going to send Joel out our leg break.

Speaker 4  1:56:40
Oh, he's here. He's memorizing all your names, all 31 of you. He took pictures on the iPad.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:48
He knows where you live. So, okay, all right. So seriously, we need bodies in the seats, and we really would love to have you live and but, and we're getting, we're getting interest from all over, all over the country, really. And I'm kind of amazed that, you know, because it was really, again, designed as just pretty much a local, you know, venue for for the homeopaths. And I said, we got, we have people from Minnesota, not named Tano, and we have people from, I think I got a couple from Florida and not named Siegel also. So we're getting interest all over, but we're getting way more online signups than than we are in in house. So we really need some in house people. Dr antoli, I don't know if I said her name right. She's in New Jersey, she's she's coming in person, and I think she's bringing her son as a student. President, you are here. There you go. You are here. Okay, you've been quiet tonight.

Speaker 9  1:57:58
I think I'm too much. I'm thinking, I'm too much talking.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:04
Oh no, it's actually mandated that you have, you have to ask at least three questions in the question and answer period, right? That's part of the that's part of the part of the part of the contract here. Otherwise you're not going to get paid. So, so just one, I don't know if it's interesting antidote or not, but you know, when you do things like this, you get complaints also, and so, So Kevin, you know, the the IT guy and I are compiling the complaints, and I think we're going to give an award for the for the for the best complaint that we've, that we've, that we've received, and so far, the bet, I won't mention who it was, but it's a prominent doctor in Reno, complained that the website was difficult to navigate and and it was, it was not user friendly. Now, I don't know if you, any of you been on there, have been looked at it. I don't know what's not user friendly about it. And the other complaint with that was, that was the part of the complaint. The other complaints, when he looks at it on the phone, he doesn't know how to bring up the agenda. And because, you know, when you look at it on the phone, the menu has three lines in the upper right hand corner, and he wanted, he demanded that we change it to say agenda or something. Now, if you've ever, if you recall, whenever you look at a URL on the phone, the menu is always those lines, because that's sort of a universal that's the way whoever put these things together decided it was going to be done. But it's my fault that that it's not done that way on our website. So far, that's the best complaint. We'll have to think of a prize for it. So, so those of you are not local, you know one of, one of the one of the local sayings is, first prize is a week in Fernley, which is a kind of a run downtown, out of outside of Reno. And second prize is two weeks in Fernley. So okay, does anybody else have any comments or questions? Think conference next week, we have our own doctor, John Burgess, who's right on screen, is going to be talking about, what are you going to be talking about

Speaker 5  2:00:20
neural neural and I use that as an excuse to bring up segmental therapy, which now finally have a book on. It's a big deal if you do acupuncture, physical medicine or neural therapy, you have to understand segmental therapy. So it's what you have in common with a plant and a snake.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:41
Oh, especially the snakes, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:00:45
Especially you

Unknown Speaker  2:00:47
remember the snake from the Bible, right? Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:00:49
yeah, I already have videos of that, so I'm ready for

Bill Clearfield  2:00:53
it. And you're going to wear your dress flannels for this, right? You're going to be old, whatever's appropriate. Okay, all right. How are you doing, Joe? I'm

Speaker 6  2:01:03
doing good. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, Joe, I should be back in about two and a half, three weeks.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:10
Yeah, Joel's been on the disabled list for a little bit, so that's right, get him back if my office is not the same without him. How Joel's kind of our leg breaker here, you make sure that you know everything's run Ship Shape and things get done here, so

Speaker 4  2:01:25
we can tell people our leg breakers injured. So Bill is fine. Don't worry about what he said. He's gonna run after yourself.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:32
He's got more more bark than bite.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:36
Learning new techniques.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:39
It's just a threat. You know, is just enough. Usually, yeah, so and every, every conference I've run, there's always been at least one speaker has dropped out at the last minute. So that's when, that's where Joel comes in, because we, we go chase them down.

Speaker 9  2:02:01
I want to ask a question. I know a lady and her brother is sick. She said that he has drug addiction. And I think one time we talk about there, it's an island somewhere where they treat they she can fly outside the country.

Speaker 5  2:02:24
Yeah, you can. You can get Ibogaine, if that's what you're talking about. And if anybody wants it, I can give a phone number and you're in. But it's still highly illegal in the United States, so you can't and Canada just made it

Speaker 9  2:02:38
no me, but she maybe she can go there and treat him, because, I mean, she was complaining, and I remember that I know something about how I she can make get help.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:53
Bye, everyone gotta

Speaker 9  2:02:56
go, Hi Joe, but I can talk. We can when I'm at the conference only if you want. Okay, great.

Speaker 10  2:03:05
So, Bill, yeah, I was just typing in aosrd.org and it comes up with the rheumatology group.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:15
That's us. But

Unknown Speaker  2:03:18
it was Friday, Saturday, Sunday in March.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:20
Oh, that's an old one.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:24
Oh, it's Congress of medical

Bill Clearfield  2:03:26
excellence. Congress of medical excellence is the is the website we're using for the conference,

Speaker 5  2:03:31
and we're going to use it more and more. And Kevin has assured us that that is what we will be using for our media Congress of medical excellence, and it's working beautiful now,

Speaker 10  2:03:44
so to look up to to enroll for the conference. And

Bill Clearfield  2:03:48
here it is. Here it is here, right here? Some, some reason it didn't. Yep, thanks.

Speaker 9  2:04:02
It's very explicit. It's very good website.

Speaker 4  2:04:06
Yeah, we're just not getting complaints,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:12
you know. So, like I said, so that's the best complaint so far that. So this universal, you know, the sort of rule that, you know, the big tech companies came up with 20 years ago. I should change it, because it's confusing and and he can't figure it out that if you touch the three lines that, you know, the main menu comes up

Unknown Speaker  2:04:36
is the best website that's

Unknown Speaker  2:04:38
that's a that's a winner. In my

Speaker 4  2:04:39
book, we can't win them all, you know, we're gonna have, we're

Bill Clearfield  2:04:43
gonna have to, we're gonna have to come up with some, some good booby prize for that. So unless somebody comes up with some, something more, you know, even more sort of outlandish.

Speaker 10  2:04:55
And did you say you also needed another vendor or a sponsor?

Bill Clearfield  2:04:58
Well, we have, for $500 we have, like, they get a table, and they get, you know, they get prominence. We have one more spot for a vendor, for a non CMB speaking, and that's 750 that's a breakfast, right? And it's a breakfast. So all three lunches are taken, and two of the two of the three breakfasts are taken, right?

Speaker 10  2:05:23
Are you guys familiar with Salus labs? No,

Speaker 6  2:05:27
I'm not. I don't know. I am not. Who is Salus labs?

Speaker 10  2:05:32
Gentleman named Curtis. Let's see I can get you his last name, interesting product that he has you. They VR, it's too much to go into right right now. But he has a product called recall, and it contains, I don't know, probably 2500 different micro peptides that they've derived from. Anyway.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:02
You get us a contact. We'll go. Okay, all right, okay, everybody anything else?

Unknown Speaker  2:06:11
Just reach you by email. Yep.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:16
Anybody else got anything? Carol, you got anything for us? You've been quiet tonight. She's not there. I

Unknown Speaker  2:06:20
just want to say, thank you all so much. I gotta go. You're still here. Okay? Thank you, of course.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:25
Yeah. Thank you guys. Where are you located? I

Speaker 1  2:06:29
am in Roswell, Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia. It's a four hour flight, pretty much, anywhere

Speaker 2  2:06:36
good yet. Dorito, you know, direct. I

Speaker 1  2:06:40
know I really want to come. I definitely do, especially to meet Dr Burgess and his I just want to talk to him when we're not on a camera, so I can ask 50,000 nerdy questions and just geek out.

Speaker 5  2:06:54
I might do it by zoom, but I have 1000 nerdy questions for you too. So

Speaker 1  2:06:58
thank you. Well, we will talk. I really appreciate you all sincerely. Thank you so much.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:04
Was just just fabulous. Oh, you guys are so

Unknown Speaker  2:07:07
nice. Goodness. Thank you. Have a great night.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:10
Thank you. We're

Bill Clearfield  2:07:11
just grateful someone will talk to us and not threaten us with you know our you know our livelihood. We're going to take your medical license. Dr Burgess, you we don't like the look of your beard.

Speaker 5  2:07:24
Man, it's been a long struggle. Man, to be honest, and you're giving a talk on 50 years, 50

Bill Clearfield  2:07:30
Well, 55 decades. Yeah. So those just a quick, a quick sort of like preview. When I was a medical student. I actually spent a month at the at the original predicting clinic in Santa Monica on the beach, doing low fat with low fat diet, 10% fat diet, and had to get it was all men, and had to get them out of bed and make them walk. That's what I was medical so that's where I'm starting, and we're ending up with the glps and regenerative medicine. So that's where we went from one end to the other. So, and, you know, we're just getting started here.

Speaker 9  2:08:08
Oh, I want to say something about L nutra. L nutra, it's a diet that mimics fasting, and people get younger 2.5 years every after doing this five days, month for three months, it was very interesting. They also lose weight, reverses diabetes and mimics fasting like for five days.

Speaker 2  2:08:37
It's like a kit, and it has like the it has each day. There's a thing I think I've done it a couple times, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:44
Oh, is it good?

Bill Clearfield  2:08:48
You know, it doesn't last. It's okay while you're doing it, but you know, a month later you got to do it again. So, and that's the one I'm thinking of it. And usually, at a 4m you can get

Unknown Speaker  2:09:02
the pro one, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:09:05
The last time I did it, we got the $125 a Kit Special. Um, it's usually, I think it was 175 that was before covid, though, so who knows what it cost now,

Speaker 9  2:09:17
and I do some classes with Doctor ace chowski. And he's doing also longevity. And he's using thymosine, the same principle to reverse the th one to teach to something between those th and he's using a ASEA water,

Unknown Speaker  2:09:43
Asia. And

Speaker 9  2:09:47
I they also have Asia gel with gold, with some gold, some and I put it on my face. And everyone know

Bill Clearfield  2:09:58
good thing that Dr Halas is not on. You mentioned the secret, secret code, ta, he'd be talking for two hours now.

Unknown Speaker  2:10:10
You'll meet him in live, in person,

Unknown Speaker  2:10:12
yeah, oh, he's, he's coming to,

Bill Clearfield  2:10:15
yeah, he's, he's come. He's at every one of ours. He was that the first one I did, I you know him, and Dr far, she came all the way from wherever they are, and I couldn't

Speaker 10  2:10:26
just let me know when you get back. And I hope you feel better soon.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:30
Okay, so we're gonna, I don't know if this is a patient call with Dr couch here. So Okay, now, now he's muted, so,

Speaker 9  2:10:41
oh yeah, because he said that. He Yeah. It was very interesting, his confidence, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:47
So yeah, we're the best we, you know, before again, before they threw us out, we had the third highest attendance at the OMED, which is the AOA scientific convention. There's 5000 dos there. It was family practice, internal medicine, and the third, the third highest attendance was, was us aosrd, and then he turned around and tell us, we're no good. Two months after they gave us a five year recertification, by the way. So, so I gotta let it go. John, so,

Speaker 5  2:11:22
yeah, well, you you remember all that? I bury it in my PTSD personality. The only time, the only time we ever got in trouble was for telling the truth. And this meeting, December 4, a month from now, we are going to disclose things that have never been disclosed. Just thought I'd give you a warning.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:41
Well, yeah, but we're not affiliated with Eddie. There's nobody to throw us out.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:48
That's right. It

Bill Clearfield  2:11:50
made sure all the all the accounting and taxes were done for the 501, c3, so we're okay there. I don't know you're right. I don't know who else can throw us out. We're good. The CME credit thing went through fine. And we're, we're, you know, we're good

Speaker 5  2:12:04
to go. The old saying, If you can't kill them, join them.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:08
Well, you know, well, you know how it is. You know, it takes 17 years to change it, change a dynamic, you know, first, first, first, they score in you. Then, you know, then they, then they shoot at you, then they stomp you to the ground, and then you're accepted, right? You know, the classic story is Barry Marshall, that the gastroenterologist from Australia, who he was the first one who sort of posited that h pylori caused ulcers, you know, was a bacteria, right? And, yeah, they made fun of him, and they, you know, kicked him out of, you know, they stripped him of his titles and took away his certifications and his license,

Speaker 5  2:12:43
we have our own special guy who has been crucified to the max, and that's our friend, Peter McCulloch. Yeah, there's no smarter Doctor in the world, actually,

Bill Clearfield  2:12:54
I didn't, I actually didn't know it, but Dr Shallenberger has been through some some trials and tribulations also. Yeah, it's pretty quiet about it, but, and, and, you know, pretty much almost everybody you know here has probably had some issue, you know, because you dared to speak out, right? Doctor.

Speaker 8  2:13:16
Quinn, oh, my God, yes, yeah. They quoted. They said, the way that I practice, they said, the district attorney is exact words where you practice out over your skis. Well, you guys in Reno will get that.

Speaker 2  2:13:39
Yeah, we do. What's wrong with that?

Unknown Speaker  2:13:46
Yeah, you're ahead of the game, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:13:48
Yeah, always, all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:53
It's after 10 o'clock. Back your time back East. So go to sleep, John,

Unknown Speaker  2:13:59
go to sleep.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:01
Okay, thank you, buddy.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:02
Good night. We'll see you tonight. Dr, dr Burgess is going to regale us with the Tales from the homeofunctional world. Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:14:10
we're going to be talking about Nazis and torture next week.

Speaker 6  2:14:15
All right, good night, everybody. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai