Unknown Speaker  00:40
There we go, Hi, There,

Unknown Speaker  00:41
Hey, there. How are you?

Bill Clearfield  00:43
I'm good. We're going to have a little about a 10 minute prelim from one of our compounding pharmacists, if that's okay with you, sure, just, just, just a real short he's got some formulations that a lot of a lot of been using, and he's going to just give us, if you don't mind, short, go ahead, is Doctor Emmanuel is going to be on, right? Doctor alasa,

Unknown Speaker  01:11
yeah, he's coming, hopefully. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  01:14
alright. So okay, so we'll be on, you know, around five ish, and I don't know if, since the last time we saw you, we have CME credits that we can grant. Now, two CME credits. We have a fairly good sized contingent from the Philippines that joins us, been joining us every week. I don't know if they were on last time. So we've been getting as many as 70. Oh, cool, yeah, usually at least 40. And I think last week we had 76 oh yeah, that's awesome. So we're doing a little better. Good. Be nice, if we could figure out a way to make a little bit of money on this

Unknown Speaker  01:58
exactly,

Bill Clearfield  02:01
pay for the for the zoom, yeah, but, but we're doing a little bit better here. So how are you doing? I'm

Unknown Speaker  02:11
doing well. Doing well,

Unknown Speaker  02:14
good. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  02:17
and okay, so just chill out.

Unknown Speaker  02:20
Yep,

Bill Clearfield  02:21
take it easy and we'll we'll be ready in a little bit.

Unknown Speaker  02:27
Okay, yep. So how we doing? Shell oh,

Speaker 1  02:38
we're doing fine waiting for their hurricane to pass,

Bill Clearfield  02:43
waiting for what their hurricane

Unknown Speaker  02:45
to pass. Miami.

Speaker 2  02:47
You don't see the hurricane. It's fine. It's like five, well,

Unknown Speaker  02:52
it fluctuates, scary.

Speaker 2  02:54
The picture of it, it's it's like a giant, uh, Boxing, boxing whole, my whole floors,

Speaker 1  03:04
the whole Florida. It's the size of the whole Florida. It's a big one man, monster. Well, you need to go ahead and run away. Maybe Doctor William has some houses there. Man, we're fine. In the backyard. You have anything? We're Sheldon and his wife.

Bill Clearfield  03:24
We can, we can, we can bring out all the Florida people here. We got plenty of room. We're

Speaker 1  03:28
not, we're not worried, we're not worried. It's just, it's going to be a minor one for us.

Unknown Speaker  03:36
Minor, oh my Come on, man.

Speaker 1  03:37
Uh, when it when they're getting tis the outer bands. You didn't see the news here it says, it says this is, like the biggest hurricane ever. I'm just kidding you, since I'm not worried,

Bill Clearfield  03:52
he's right in it, he's not worried. So what about Stefan? Is he? He's up in the Stefan's gotta

Speaker 1  03:59
be concerned. He's up in Melbourne. Yeah, sorry to scare you, but you're not getting scared. I don't know what to do now. Mike might be

Bill Clearfield  04:11
that's why we have you. Dr halassa, to scare everybody. Yeah.

Speaker 1  04:15
Mike beamer should worry too, see how he's doing, but hopefully don't. It won't be so they're inland, so hopefully they'll be okay.

Bill Clearfield  04:26
Well, Doctor, Doctor, Siegel, the you know, the veterinarian,

Unknown Speaker  04:32
oh boy, that wasn't Florida. Here.

Unknown Speaker  04:35
Anybody Florida? Here? Yeah, shell,

Speaker 1  04:38
yeah, me. Oh no, yeah, no, I wouldn't, I don't worry. I would worry about people right on the water, and that's where you're gonna have the big flooding, and that's gonna be something to worry about. Okay? And tornadoes are

Speaker 2  04:55
unpredictable, yeah, the the five thing is scary. I mean, I can't before three, I'm okay, but five, and it's spinning and the size of the Florida, I'm going to travel to Florida next week and eight days. Is that going to be affecting my travel? Or it's going to be

Speaker 1  05:15
as long as it's after Saturday, what is that? As long as you're traveling after Saturday, it should be okay.

Unknown Speaker  05:24
I'm traveling 15. What's 15? Is

Unknown Speaker  05:29
15?

Unknown Speaker  05:30
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  05:32
don't tell me I cannot travel

Unknown Speaker  05:37
because of hurricane man.

Speaker 1  05:40
So let's see the 15th. Okay, there's the calendar in this thing. Here we go.

Speaker 1  05:54
Saturday is the 1214 next Tuesday is the 15th, so I'm good, yeah, you're good. Okay, you're good. We go, we're double that. I'm going,

Speaker 2  06:14
I'm going to stay with Dr Joseph for one week and then attend AJ, because I'm speaking there at

Unknown Speaker  06:22
AJ, AJ, conference,

Bill Clearfield  06:24
oh. AJ, okay, right now you

Speaker 1  06:27
have 70, you you're qualified to get a physical meeting. If you have seven, if you get to 100

Unknown Speaker  06:34
I can guarantee that you can do a physical meeting for sure. No, I think

Bill Clearfield  06:41
invited me and then uninvited me. They said they had too many speakers. So,

Unknown Speaker  06:44
oh no, Hey, Jay,

Speaker 2  06:47
I didn't know why you got, you got, you got something. You got a gift before, like, you honor.

Bill Clearfield  06:52
It was, it was Claudia, yeah, they even, they even gave me a birthday last year. It was on my birthday. They gave me a birthday cake. Remember? Oh, birthday cake, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:01
you're right.

Bill Clearfield  07:06
I'm gonna get uninvited, huh? Doctor Shirley, did you ever get uninvited, invited and then uninvited?

Speaker 3  07:13
Not like that. No, no, you

Unknown Speaker  07:16
did not be there. I see you there. You're not exhibiting there, right? No, me, no, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:28
all right. Stefan's on, and he looks like he's home, so I guess it's not raining.

Speaker 2  07:34
Man, how is Florida looking for Florida

Unknown Speaker  07:38
I've been preparing so

Speaker 1  07:40
big and huge. Man, you need to come to Maryland here.

Speaker 4  07:45
Yeah, we've been preparing all day here. Man, I've been digging up my yard, filling it full of filling bags full of sand. I went to my office. I took down my sign, because that thing's going to blow away. And then let me show you what my wife did here for the chickens. You won't believe this. Are they

Speaker 3  08:03
in the house? Yeah, we're going to be living with chicken. Oh, wow.

Bill Clearfield  08:09
You will have to make sacrifices sometime, right?

Speaker 4  08:14
Yeah, we'll see the house, yeah, so we'll have chickens in the house by this Thursday, I guess, or sooner

Bill Clearfield  08:25
you've got the Yeah, but they're very, they're very uniform on too, I see, huh? No, sure.

Unknown Speaker  08:32
Where's Doctor Quinn,

Bill Clearfield  08:33
it's not on you.

Speaker 2  08:35
Yeah? I mean there, there's some nudist here. It's okay, there's, it's x, it's little bit X rated. It's a lifestyle, guys, you have to, we have to respect it, you know.

Bill Clearfield  08:49
Yeah, so is Mike Emmanuel going to be on Doctor halasa.

Bill Clearfield  08:58
Now he's quiet. He quiet. He's never quiet. Yep, he's never he's never been quiet in his life.

Unknown Speaker  09:07
Now he's quiet.

Speaker 4  09:10
I think him and Dr Joseph are in Miami. Is that right? Going

Bill Clearfield  09:15
to Miami next time

Speaker 1  09:16
got 18 people so far. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:23
I didn't do that. So

Speaker 1  09:26
let's not record when we do the little bit five minutes with one.

Bill Clearfield  09:31
Okay, is he on? Because it's just about five o'clock. It's a good idea to bring

Speaker 5  09:39
me back to Earth. So,

Bill Clearfield  09:48
how are things in the Philippines? Dr Rivera, how are things in the Philippines?

Speaker 5  10:02
He's is muted. It's been on and off. Storm here as well, on and off. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:12
alright. No, no hurricanes there, I guess so they get the typhoons. I guess I'm

Unknown Speaker  10:17
proud of you all. This revolution has been a huge success. Yay. Us, come on. No, all right.

Bill Clearfield  10:37
Well, Dr alassa, I don't see Mike Emmanuel on yet. So it's getting to be a little after five. So

Speaker 2  10:51
it's coming. Give him a two minutes he's coming at this you can get some crowd here, because he can get up to another 40, if you just wait for some five minutes.

Bill Clearfield  11:03
Well, I mean, if he wants to wait, we can wait till the till the end, and then, you know, we'll have the full, full crowd.

Unknown Speaker  11:11
Okay, he's here. You're

Unknown Speaker  11:13
here. Doctor Manny, Hi, Hi, Doctor, how are you?

Speaker 2  11:18
Okay? So let me, let me help him. Mike Emmanuel, because he's a little bit shy, camera shy, and then he will talk basically what we have developed with me and Dr Mike, and I think Steve fan is getting good results from patient with insomnia, is that we figure out that we are progesterone deficient. I think everybody above 50, and that's the reason why we have metabolic syndrome and estrogen dominance syndrome, and I think that Eston is the culprit. And I learned that from Doctor William Clearfield, you know, the time, estones, estones. And so we think we thought about progesterone, intranasal loaded with psychodextrin, because cyclodextrin helped to clear the exit estrogens and part possibly it helps to detox the body for mycotoxins and all the good stuff that we need out fat soluble toxins. So it's a delivery of progesterone. It's more effective than progesterone by itself. It stays longer and it slowly delivered. And the evidence is that patient with insomnia, they got approved after many years of suffering, and all the medication failed, and that indicate that we are indeed progesterone deficient. That's why we have low six hormone so we develop intra nasal progesterone loaded with psychodextrin, and that's at night. You take it at night so you can have a good sleep. I learned that from Doctor William also the the metabolites of progesterone is prognolon and all the derivatives, alloprognolones, and that that acts like a GABA, and it helps to put people give them the kind of good night's sleep. And then in the morning, we thought about giving oxytocin enter nasal those equidextrin, because oxycosine helps to clear the weights of the brain because it stimulate the contraction.

Speaker 2  13:19
Or, you know, you press on reset factory. Oxytocin does that to our physiology. And so oxytocin in the morning, progesterone at night, internazional. And then we have a dye capsule, which helps alternative to the PGL one, or the GLP one, which we thought in now GLP one, if people, they can't tolerate it, they can take diet capsule containing naltrexone, which doctor, William, again, likes to talk about. It helps you modulate the immune system, but also it stops or it decreases appetite. And then Metformin, which helps to help in our metabolism, increase insulin sensitivity, but also helps in weight loss, burning fat. And then we have another thing is amloxynox, which is also is being researched on using it for weight loss and diabetes and hyper and high cholesterol. I'm not synox, Metformin, naltrexone, and B 12. Because if you take Metformin, you need to have B 12. And B 12 is a good thing too. And so this is thing if you want to add Acarbose, the problem with acrobosis may give you gas. So if you thought about your patients, they don't like to be having gas because it does prevent absorption of carbohydrate. Then you can take it off and you just use the other three so anyway, Mike Emmanuel, the pharmacist, you can go ahead and talk about your formulation more.

Speaker 6  14:51
Hi everybody. Thank you for the introduction. Thanks. We have a lot of communications. We can fill out most of your prescriptions for non steel product, Dr halasas, formula, progesterone and diet pills. I'm going to include my email address, my phone number on the chat. Please contact me and let me know if you have any question. If you're not send us the prescriptions, most of our patients are coming back for refuse. They they're satisfied with medications, but produce strong red pills and anything else. Please. Let me know if you have a question. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  15:36
how about the your your weight loss formula? Is that one pill or a day? Is that what it is, is a combination,

Speaker 6  15:44
is most of the times two times two capsules a day?

Unknown Speaker  15:50
Okay? Very afraid.

Bill Clearfield  15:53
How exp, you know, what are the doses of the ingredients?

Speaker 6  16:00
It's there's like, 10 different ingredients. I'm like saying,

Bill Clearfield  16:07
Can you, can you send us the formula, and I'll put it on the website?

Speaker 6  16:10
Yes, I'm going to send it to that. Okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  16:15
we gotta get you out of your shell. Doctor Emmanuel, so okay,

Unknown Speaker  16:18
I'm gonna,

Bill Clearfield  16:19
I think we're gonna, we're gonna have a night of Doctor Halas favorite formulas. I think that would be a fun, a fun thing to do. Yeah, okay, so thank you so much. And so we were supposed to have Doctor Doctor Stefan on tonight, but he graciously bowed out, because I sometimes make some errors. So so we have our favorite and we have Beth Shirley, who is a, you're a PhD in pharmacy, correct?

Unknown Speaker  16:53
No, not a PhD.

Bill Clearfield  16:57
So you escaped that?

Speaker 3  16:59
Well, I was a pharmacist before that was even a thing,

Bill Clearfield  17:03
right? So, so I'm going to let you introduce yourself, you know, best that's been on with us before. We've talked What about nitric oxide before? And she's going to talk to us a little bit about EMFs tonight and nitric oxide. Yeah. Okay.

Speaker 3  17:22
So how do I share my slides?

Bill Clearfield  17:26
Yeah, right down at the bottom, there should be a green thing that says, share. Okay, got it. There you go. There.

Unknown Speaker  17:36
Okay, and now, how I make it big? Um,

Bill Clearfield  17:40
go to where to the top there, the fourth from the right where it says slideshow. Yeah, right there. Click that, and then go all the way to play from start. Okay, and that should do it. Okay. There you go. Okay. Hi

Speaker 3  17:55
everybody. Thanks for having me again. I'm a pharmacist and a certified clinical nutritionist. So I became a pharmacist because I thought I was going to help people, and after 20 years of seeing them come back sicker and sicker on more and more drugs, in 1997 I became a certified clinical nutritionist. So I became the pharmacist to go to if you wanted to get off drugs or not go down that road to begin with. So I've been exploring different ways to heal for quite some time now. Here is my bio, if anybody needs it, and tonight, we're going to talk about nitric oxide and how EMF decimates our ability to make nitric oxide, and what happens to our physiology when that happens. So we're going to start with the basics of nitric oxide, so that we're all on the same page, and so that every everything kind of makes sense. So nitric oxide governs circulation, and microcirculation has everything to do with learning and memory. Our kidney function is nitric oxide dependent. Our vision, our eyes, our hormones have to have nitric oxide in order to even start being made. Our immune system, our first offense is nitric oxide. Our lungs, our sexual response, all assets of fertility are nitric oxide mediated. And here's what EMF does. EMF is touches every single physiological process, too and everything that EMF affects is nitric oxide mediated the cardiovascular diabetes. All of these things that EMF affects has to do with nitric oxide at the base. So EMR, electromagnetic radiation, these are the waves of electric and magnetic energy moving through space together. EMF means it spans large frequencies, and if you change the electrical charge, you are going to change biological processes. You get quantum decoherence and loss of energy efficiency. And in fact, like the safety standards for EMF exposure was last updated in 96 and it's the non thermal effects of this EMF that does the damage. See one of the reasons they haven't updated those standards is because they say EMF doesn't cause the thermal reactions, doesn't heat up the cells, because they think, you know, they they try to get us to think that that's the only thing that can cause damage, but actually these EMFs increase oxidative stress, and it throws off that redox balance. And when you got increased oxidative stress, you down regulate the production of nitric oxide. And oxidative stress plays a role in all chronic, degenerative and inflammatory issues. Every single thing that goes wrong at the base is oxidative stress. So we don't feel these EMFs. These are non thermal things that are happening in our body. This oxidative stress, we don't feel that. So why is nitric oxide so essential? Regulates all cardiovascular function and homeostasis. It governs circulation and microcirculation. Hemoglobin requires nitric oxide to be attached to a cysteine molecule on it in order to deliver oxygen to the cells. So you could be super saturated with oxygen, but if you're nitric oxide deficient, you're not going to be able to deliver that oxygen to the cells and tissues. Supports neurotransmitter function, regulates gastrointestinal function, including gastroparesis, healthy mucous membrane layer, healthy microbiomes everywhere. The glute four receptor on the membrane of the cell has to have nitric oxide in order to translocate to bring glucose into the cell. It's essential for learning and memory. Supports mitochondrial biogenesis controls the efficiency of the mitochondria in the generation of energy and the generation of hormones, where cholesterol gets metabolized and into pregnant alone the mother hormone. So it's essential for sexual function in both men and women. It's required for stem cell mobilization and differentiation. So nitric oxide is required for those stem cells to go where they need to go and do what they need to do. In fact, if you're doing any kind of stem cell therapy, make sure they're nitric oxide repleted before you do that, and they will have much better results. Regulates the immune system function, regulates inflammatory response and scavenges free radicals, modifies platelet activation and aggregation, which is so critical in today's post viral post jab world, that spike protein decimates the nitric oxide bioavailability, and that's why all these people are having these little micro clots, and supports telomerase activity, which has everything to do with longevity. So we make nitric oxide through two pathways. One, the NOS pathway takes arginine and oxidizes it into nitric oxide. This pathway is very sensitive to numerous, numerous factors, pH dependent, oxygen dependent, your flavins, NADPH has to be there, iron, BH, four is what keeps that nos coupled, and then the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway, which is so essential to support because as we age, our ability to make nitric oxide decreases. Us women hold on to it a little better than men, until we reach menopause, and then it kind of evens out. So by the time we're 40, our ability to make nitric oxide is only functioning about 50% by the time we're 60, it's only functioning about 15% so that's why it's so critical to support the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway. So we talked about aging diet, standard American diet, devoid of essential cofactors, nutrients devoid of nitrate, rich veggies, the lack of exercise, and what we can't see here is like medications, so antibiotics, antifungals, SSRI, antidepressants, birth control pills. That's why they don't want women over the age of 35 taking birth control pills, especially if they're smoker. It's because this nitric oxide connection. NSAIDs, PPIs interfere with the production of nitric oxide through both pathways. EMFs, pollution, anything that increases oxidative stress uncouples that nos enzyme Glyphosate. Glyphosate is everywhere genetics and not just your nos snips, any snip that increases oxidative stress, maybe your sod snips, catalyst snips. If you have any MTHFR snips, you are, by definition, nitric oxide deficient, because you're unable to adequately make BH four. And BH four is what keeps nitric ox, the NOS enzyme coupled. And then the last one is stress, the big one, stress, stress uncouples that nos enzyme. And what uncoupled mean like not for nos to function, it's it's got to be coupled. It's a dimer, and it's held together by BH four tetrahydro biotran. So when it's coupled, that that electron from NADPH is handed on down to arginine and then oxidized to nitric oxide. When nos is uncoupled, that electron is not handed down to arginine, is handed down to oxygen and makes superoxide. So when nos is uncoupled, it is a superoxide generator, not a nitric oxide producer. So the rate limit cofactor is BH, four is what keeps it coupled. If you're giving arginine to a bh four depleted, uncoupled nos, you're actually increasing superoxide production. So arginine supplementation is not effective in the aging population or anyone with a chronic issue. Most of the studies done with arginine, showing that it increases nitric oxide were done on young fit male athletes,

Speaker 3  27:46
and vitamin C is the only molecule that can reduce BH three back to BH four. So if you are vitamin C deficient, that BH three oxidizes to BH two BH, two uncouples, nos. So then if you're supporting nitrate, this actually helps support that nos enzyme too, because the nitrate will inhibit your NADPH oxidase enzyme, which decreases oxidative stress, and it allows it in a DPH for other needed processes, nitrate upregulates a production of BH four By increasing the enzyme GTP cyclohydrolase, BH four helps recouple nos, increasing nitric oxide, decreasing superoxide. It increases activity of sod and catalase. So we are really decreasing oxidative stress by supplementing nitrate. So we've got three main ways we make superoxide in the in the body, and supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway down regulates those three main sources of superoxide. So that's uncoupled nos, your NADPH oxidase enzyme, and uncoupled mitochondrial electron transport chain. So oxidative stress and inflammation is at the best bet base of every single chronic issue. So this NADPH oxidase enzyme, whose only job is to make superoxide, gets up regulated by a lot of these environmental factors, mold, infection, inflammation, oxalates, histamine, but EMF is a big one. EMF, that's how EMF starts this oxidative stress process. So when that NADPH oxidase enzyme is up regulated, it will preferentially steal that NADPH resulting in like less being bioavailable or fatty acid synthesis, steroid synthesis, phase one detoxification, you're not able to recycle your oxidized glutathione. And remember that NADPH is part of that nos enzyme too, and supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway down, regular,

Speaker 2  30:39
little bit interruption here, and I'm sorry for that. Natch. I think it's N O X. Nos is nitroxide synthase, which is something we wanted, but no x is the

Speaker 3  30:51
next No. X is NADPH oxidase,

Speaker 1  30:55
right? But before what you did, you did nos, right? As Nox,

Unknown Speaker  30:58
no, no. Okay,

Speaker 2  31:00
sorry for that. Oh, see. Okay, yeah, okay, my eyes, my eyes.

Speaker 3  31:09
Okay, so when this NADPH oxidase enzyme is up regulated, it stimulates RAS so you're increasing cardiovascular disease, you're increasing diabetes, insulin resistance, you're impairing your thyroid function, you're inflaming your gut, you're impairing cognition, you're impairing the kidney function. You got a vicious cycle of inflammation everywhere. So Mark and Paul, he's got a theory out there that EMF damages tissue because it increases peroxy nitrite, and so I'm going to address this peroxy and I tried issue. So he believes that the EMF increases like stimulates a voltage gated calcium channels to increase the influx of calcium into the cells. And when you do this, he thinks it stimulates your calcium calmodulin dependent nos, which is your Enos and your n nos. And he thinks that increase and no from that reacts with the superoxide to increase peroxy nitride. So he's thinking that's peroxy and nitrite mechanism is what's injuring the cells and tissues. However, the data is severely limited on that nitric oxide may be present. However, this does not mean that nitric oxide is causing the issue. Just like when you have a fire, there's always firemen in the area. That doesn't mean the firemen are causing the issue. So nitric oxide may be present, but it doesn't mean it's causing the issue. And in fact, when you read these studies, and it's talking about nitrate, peroxy nitrite. If you read them, look at the wording on it. They're always saying, we're suggesting that peroxy nitrite. It may be peroxy nitrite, but they are actually measuring nitro tyrosine. They're not measuring peroxynitrite. They're measuring nitro tyrosine, and they're assuming peroxy nitrite was formed. However, nitro tyrosine is not specific for peroxynitrite. In fact, there's a new paradigm in the nitric oxide research community saying that this peroxy nitrite isomerizes to nitrate, because, look, they're both, you know, three oxygen and one nitrogen, nitrogen and peroxy nitrite in the body pH is an equal ribium with peroxynitros acid. Peroxynitros acid is unstable in aqueous solution and isomerizes to nitrate. Peroxynitrite reacts with oxyhemoglobin and isomerizes to nitrate. 90 to 95% of it your your enzyme peroxy redoxins. This is a significant biological sink of peroxy nitrite, metabolizing it to nitrate. And in fact, there's actually some some studies showing this peroxy nitrite can be beneficial. It reacts with glutathione to form the N nitrosothios, which is a storage form of nitric oxide and glutathione. They've shown where peroxynitrite can inhibit lipid peroxidation, but you will actually inhibit the formation of peroxynitrite by increasing the production of nitric oxide because, in general, if you're making a lot of superoxide, because peroxy nitrite is nitric oxide and superoxide, you're making a lot of superoxide, typically not making a lot of nitric oxide, because superoxide shuts down nitric oxide production. In fact, there's one study right here, role of nitric oxide as a mediator of Gi mucosal injury. Say it ain't so I love this study because they dig into this. They say it's controversial whether increased nitric oxide from iNOS or any other source damages tissue they use a nos inhibitor called L name, and they do see a decrease in tissue injury and inflammation. However, this might not be due to the inhibition of quote, unquote, cytotoxic concentrations of nitric oxide. There's other actions of L name that may be at play here. In fact, they say large amounts of nitric oxide does not damage, does not do damage to the mucosa or the vasculature, another source of oxidative stress, your mitochondria, not all the oxygen consumed is converted to water, and about 2% is is is converted to superoxide. However, more is converted to superoxide when the mitochondria get uncoupled under inflammation, inflammatory conditions and oxidative stress. In fact, the cytochrome c oxidase enzyme within the mitochondria can become a nitrite Redux reductase enzyme to reduce nitrite to nitric oxide on an as needed basis to open up the circulation, because blood flow to the cells is more important than how much oxygen is carried by hemoglobin, nitrite and nitric oxide recouple that electron transport chain decreasing proton length, nitrite and nitric oxide stimulate hypoxic mitochondrial biogenesis by activating AMPK, insert one, and thus activating PGC, one Alpha, EMF, causes extensive electron leak from the electron transport chain. It uncouples that electron transport chain increases the oxidative stress. So what I mean by uncoupling is, instead of sending that electron down and making your ATP and your water, that electron gets leaked and starts making like more reactive oxygen species, AMF, down regulate your antioxidant genes, your sod, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, you actually lose the ability for beta oxidation of fats in the mitochondria with EMF, blue light exposure and EMF hypoxic. Remember, oxygen is essential cofactor to that nos enzyme. So EMF stimulates that NADPH oxidase uncouples that mitochondrial electron transport chain uncouples nos increases the activity of Myeloperoxidase, increasing hydrogen peroxide stimulates a fentanyl reaction. So you've got more hydroxyl free radicals, and your Fe three plus increases that influx of calcium ions, which then goes on to stimulate that NADPH oxidase enzyme more so the gene that encodes that voltigated Calcium channel is C, A, C, N, A, 1c, this gene, if you've got snips in it, gives you increased sensitivity to EMF, so you've got excitotoxicity, and coincidentally, this gene is also associated with bipolar symptoms schizophrenia, but supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway addresses every single one of these issues That EMF is stimulating. So these voltage gated calcium channels, these are widely distributed within the CNS, and when they're when they're stimulated, this change quantum coherence. Change. You lose that membrane potential, causing the proton leaks. You decrease ATP synthesis, you get increase that mitochondrial uncoupling. You weaken neuronal integrity. You get a breakdown of that cytoskeleton. You get cytosolic shrinkage, dehydration of the cell. That's because that mitochondria is uncoupled, so you're not making that water that the cell needs, and that water is that deuterium depleted water. So it's really a special water that that cell needs to function. It activates the nnda receptor, which is a component in inflammatory and neuropathic pain, GABA can inhibit that, and actually, nitric oxide can increase GABA to inhibit that. But stimulation of these calcium channels is part of the pathophysiology of CNS disorders, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and MS

Speaker 3  41:03
so nitric oxide and nitric oxide donors inhibit that influx of calcium from the voltage gated calcium channel. It regulates the intracellular calcium concentration, so it will blunt that mitochondrial calcium overload without undermining ATP synthesis. Exposure to Wi Fi increases heart rate and blood pressure. They've they've known that these EMFs affect blood pressure, increased diabetes. They've known this. The Russians knew it in the 50s, and in us, they didn't really figure this out till the 60s, but they've known this for a long time. So increases arrhythmias, increases hypertension and dyslipidemia, stimulates that RAS cycle. Nitric oxide down regulates that RAS cycle. So nitric oxide regulates all mechanism controlling that intracellular calcium concentration. EMF is classified as an immunosuppressant. It is a it causes a biological stress response. Down regulates the production of nitric oxide. Nitric oxide is our first defense against pathogens, against virus, fungi, bacteria. EMF alters the gut, brain, immune access that increased calcium influx increases cytokine storms, which increases susceptibility to these pathogens. EMF intensifies our reactions to mold, Lyme, virus, bacteria, parasites, it kind of just supercharges them. In fact, you know, prior to this last viral thing, where the virus really took hold initially, are in the places where they just rolled out the 5g so there's all kinds of studies showing the connection with the virus and EMF so EMF exposure dysregulates our immune response. Remember that 80% of our immune system is our gut, and we will talk about how nitric oxide is in our gut. So nitric oxide makes a healthy mucous membrane layer. Down regulates mast cell degranulation and histamine release. Down regulates a cytokine release from macrophages, increases formation of new blood vessels, vasodilates, accelerates wound healing, reduces adherence and secretion of the neutrophils, and decreases oxidative stress. So supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway will protect that microbiome. It prevents or reduces dysbiosis and actually stimulates eubiosis. And all of our microbiomes are connected. And the nitrate actually supports the microbiomes everywhere, these tight junction proteins that we get in our gut, our blood, brain barrier, kidney, skin, bile duct, lung. They're responsible for the integrity. And when we lose these tight junction proteins, we get a lot breakdown of the barrier, leaky gut, leaky brain. You see decreased expression of occludin and clodin, five nitrate actually helps increase the production of occludin and clodin. Five, decreasing leaky gut, decreasing leaky brain. BDNF also regulates intestinal barrier integrity. Nitric oxide is the essential mediator of BDNF. EMF stimulates mast cell degranulation. So all these mast cells are lining the mucous membranes, and they release histamine, cytokines, chemokines, interleukins, platelet activating factor. They're activated by superoxide. They're activated in the absence of nitric oxide. So nitrites nitric oxide regulate that mast cell, down regulate the inflamm inflammatory events of that mast cell, decreasing degranulation, decreasing the release of histamine and cytokines, decreasing leukocyte endothelial cell attachment, decreasing the reactive oxygen species. EMF disturbs microbiomes everywhere. It increases antibiotic resistance. It enhances biofilm formation decreases the good bacteria, while increasing the harmful, the beneficial bacteria actually are growing slower. So supporting that nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway prevents dysbiosis, supports healthy microbiomes, decreases inflammation, down regulates and scavenges reactive oxygen. Species nitrite can actually help disrupt disrupt that biofilm, and I'm reminded of a study that showed that nitrite with vitamin C did better on chronic urinary tract infections than broad spectrum antibiotics, because that nitrate can disrupt that biofilm. Emma it It alters every single part of the endocrine function, reproductive function, fetal development, so EMS is decreasing. Melatonin from the pineal Gran is affecting every step of fertilization, growing the baby. And this all starts because nitric oxide is essential for us to start making our hormones. So you need adequate nitric oxide in the hypothalamus to release your gonadotropin releasing hormone, or your LHRH, which then goes down to your pituitary for your LH, FSH, release which then goes down to your ovaries and testes to make your hormones, your estrogen, progesterone, your testosterone and These, in turn, these estrogen, progesterone and testosterone can go stimulate your nos production of nitric oxide. So this is a good circle here. But as you can see, there there's a couple hormones here that interfere with production of nitric oxide. One is prolactin and the other is glucocorticoids. So EMF is a powerful promoter of infertility. They use non thermal, high, penetrating, destructive effects. You're disrupting that HPA axis. It's a biological stress response, increasing the cortisol you've got an up regulation of sympathetics and a down regulation of parasympathetics. So when you're dysregulating that HPA axis and decreasing your gonadotropin releasing hormone, decreasing your LH and FSH, you are inhibiting fertility. It's inhibiting melatonin production, which is increasing oxidative stress. Melatonin also inhibit influences your LH and FSH. Most CMF studies were done in animals. However, there have been a few cases of spontaneous abortion and fetal abnormalities in pregnant women, because you're inhibiting ovulation, decreasing number of corporal Ludia celery and apotocies and ovaries, you're not implanting correctly. You're interfering with the development of the embryo, decreasing sperm count, morphology, mortality and viability disrupting the sperm mitochondria. Remember I said that EMF interferes with the mitochondria in the sperm. There's only like 50 to 75 mitochondria and the oocyte and the egg, there's like 100,000 to 200,000 mitochondria. So with that, EMF, destroying the the mitochondria like that, you're really inhibiting reproduction. So you're stimulating NADPH oxidase, you're increasing electron leakage. You're disrupting normal cellular process of the sperm, egg and embryos. You're increasing that calcium influx, uncoupling nos, the the G, EMF, increases the the GI and the blood brain barrier permeability and disrupting the microbiome, increasing leaky gut and leaky brain. And the health of the gut is intimately connected to infertility.

Speaker 3  51:09
And there's like the microbiome. There's actually, you know, like a microbiome you know of your vagina that needs to be healthy. There's a microbiome you know, of the male that needs to be happy, and this EMF is disturbing. All of that EMF increases hemoglobin, a 1c and diabetes, and some have called it environmental type three diabetes. And long term, there's studies showing long term exposure to cell phones increases the fasting blood glucose and insulin. And remember that EMF is a physiological stress response, so with increased cortisol, you're going to have increased glucose, increased blood sugar dysregulation, increased hemoglobin a 1c hemoglobin a 1c binds tightly with nitric oxide, making it not bio available. Nitric oxide is also essential for that glute for translocation to bring the glucose in the cell. So supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway actually will support all of this EMF and pairs of blood brain barrier you've got altered integrity, leakage of abumin neuronal cell, damage those tight junction proteins are decreased, and you've got breakdown of that barrier, decreased expression, expression of that cluedin And Claude and five nitrate can help repair that. So one thing, like Dr Klinghardt sees like some of the sickest of the sick, and all of his patients that come to see him, they have to clean up their EMF environment or he won't even treat them. And so, you know, like they're poisoning our water with fluoride, and Heaven knows what they're poisoning our air with the chemtrails. They're poisoning our food with the glyphosate, and then they're bombarding us with this EMF that's opening up the blood brain barrier and allowing all of these chemicals to get into our brain. And then couple that with this, you know, with that spike protein. You know, as people aren't thinking right anymore, EMF stimulates mTOR, and we're already swimming in the sea of mTOR stimulation like iron, monosodium glutamate, pesticides, amino acids, xenoestrogens, estrogens, plastic, glucose, insulin, all of these stimulate mTOR. MTOR stimulates NADPH oxidase. MTOR drives cerebral vascular dysfunction by down regulating Enos production of nitric oxide. MTOR inhibits AMPK and AMPK and autophagy. And we know that that amp okay is essential in glucose and lipid metabolism, in the mitochondrial health. And just as a side here, that the last virus actually co opted that mTOR and made the host more hospitable for replication. And here's that mTOR and inhibiting Enos and nos, causing like impaired cognition, EMF increases cell senescence. So there's been a lot of studies showing that decreased mTOR activity increases lifespan because it increases autophagy, the cleanup. So senescence is can is connected to atherosclerosis you've got and you've seen increased oxidative stress from the cell phones. Remember that nitric oxide, nitric oxide donors stimulate AMPK, which have its mTOR allows autophagy. Study shows M nitric oxide can prevent cell senescence, scavenges reactive oxygen species and increases telomerase activity to restore telomere length. So oxidative stress and exposure to chronic EMF increases telomere shortening. By increasing nitric oxide bioavailability, you're actually activating that telomerase. You're inhibiting cellular aging, delaying cellular senescence, EMF, biological stress response, dysregulating that HPA axis, increased glucocorticoid levels in pairs, the growth of the neural cells in the hippocampus, this is where learning and memory takes place, increases heat shock proteins, which is marker a cell under stress, clean heart says that every cell In the body is on alarm state from this EMF, cortisol, down regulates iNOS. That's why when when we're stressed, we get sick easier. Our immune nitric oxide is not available. Down regulates Enos. That's why, when we're stressed, we have more cardiovascular disease, more strokes, more mis cortisol increases oxidative stress, decreases synthesis of BH, four increases blood glucose, increases hemoglobin, a 1c which binds tightly to that nitric oxide. So this biological stress response decrease the production of or makes nitric oxide not bioavailable. To do other good things, it needs to do emf in the thyroid, they see decreased t3, and d3, four. And when you have increased cortisol. You've got a decrease in the conversion of t4 to t3 you see increased degranulation of the mast cells in the thyroid. So in the thyroid, there's a couple of NADPH oxidase enzymes called duox One and duox two, and they make like a specific amount of hydrogen peroxide that's needed for the thyroid peroxidase enzyme, not too much, not too little. However, that when you're stimulating these NADPH oxidase enzymes, your duox one and your duox Two, from em up, you've got way too much. So nitrate, nitric oxide and nitrites down regulate that NADPH oxidase and duox enzymes. And they even went on to say, like supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway, maybe a under utilized therapy due to its role in decreasing the production of superoxide and optimizing, optimizing nitric oxide levels. You know, like the cold hands, the cold feet, that that are always indicative of thyroid issues. Well, it's actually a deficiency of nitric oxide there. EMF. Interferes with sleep. You see a phase shift of the circadian rhythm. You see a disruption of the brain activity, increased blood brain barrier permeability, increased cortisol, decreased melatonin. So this, this circadian rhythm, which is high cortisol in the morning going down, and then melatonin starts up in the evening. You see a phase shift of that. Because all, all these people with this, all these like devices and stuff, just, you know, still, you know, in the evening, keeping that cortisol level up, so the melatonin then can't be be brought up. And most of the melatonin is actually made within the mitochondria, only about 5% of the pineal so that gut health is essential. There's a study that showed that constant light exposure in the pineal decreased nos activity 80% after eight days, the N nos production of nitric oxide in the neurons of the brain signal sleep and sleep patterns. Nitric oxide modulates a circadian rhythm, and you're decreasing this melatonin, which is a potent free radical Scavenger. Melatonin induces Enos and nos down regulates iNOS, stimulates glutamylcysteine ligase, the rate limiting step in making glutathione, inhibits NADPH oxidase, stimulates sod, decreases ADMA, because ADMA down regulates nos production. ADMA is connected to all cause mortality.

Speaker 3  1:01:05
Decreases pro inflammatory mediators. It's protective against mercury. It's beneficial in non Dipper hypertension, protective and obstructive sleep apnea, and this has to do with nitric oxide helping to modulate that mitochondrial circadian cycle. EMF can increase anxiety and depression. You've got these voltage gated calcium channels throughout the nervous system, and when they're activated, they're excitotoxic. So these EMF waves can increase depression, anxiety, irritability, sleep disturbance when you're not sleeping right, nothing goes right creates neurotransmitter imbalance. You've got decreased serotonin, dopamine and nitric oxide is involved in the regulation of anxiety, society and depression. You see low levels of BDNF. Nitric oxide mediates or neuroprotective actions of BDNF, promoting neural survival, stimulating neurogenesis, enhancing learning and memory plays a role in synaptic plasticity, which positively influences mood, increases GABA in the brain. So nitrates increase the production of BH four. So BH four, not only does it keep nos coupled, BH four is the essential cofactor in making your serotonin, your dopamine, your melatonin. So this EMF has all of these effects in the CNS by affecting the blood brain barrier, memory, neurons, neurotransmitters, even genotoxicity and cancer circulation is critical for cognition. High blood pressure is a risk factor for cognitive decline in depanche, even though our brain is only 2% of our body mass, it consumes 25% of our body's requirement for oxygen the brain needs to producing 20 times more nitric oxide than the entire vasculature. So if you're interfering with that, you're definitely interfering with cognition. So remember that hemoglobin requires nitric oxide attached to it to release the oxygen. When you're hypoxic, you're the mitochondria become uncoupled. Superoxide is increased. ATP production is decreased. Remember that cytochrome c oxidase can become a nitrite reductase enzyme to increase the nitric oxide production. to open up that circulation, and it can do that without a decrease in the ATP production and learn it affects learning and memory. So, remember, they're all through the nervous system. Increase oxidative stress, you're impairing that blood brain barrier, neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, got damage to the cerebral cortex, that's where our executive function is. Got degenerative changes in the cerebellum. Apoptosis of the amygdala, damages the myelin sheath. Think about the explosion of MS lately. So in that influx of intracellular calcium ions, this symbols that cytoskeleton, especially the microtubules, in increasing apoptosis and neurons are very, very sensitive to oxidative stress because they they are long lived cells, and they don't renew as as quickly as like say, our gut cells EMF can increase pain. These voltage gated calcium channels have play a role in the development of chronic pain, that influx of calcium ions triggers apoptosis or increase increased inflammatory cytokines. And we know that inflammation causes pain and tissue damage. Activation of those calcium channels increases the glutamate, the substance P activates the NMDA receptor, which plays a major component in inflammatory, neuropathic pain, increasing pain in the CRPS, diabetic neuropathy, GABA can react With the voltage gated calcium channel and decrease that neuropathic pain. Nitric oxide in the brain inhibits GABA transaminase enzyme to increase GABA in the brain. When you've got compromised circulation, you're not being able to deliver oxygen, glucose and Nutri nutrients to these nerves, and they malfunction, so you've got lower energy production, and this affects the membrane potential. So one of the pathways that that morphine works on those pain pathways is through nitric oxide. So we've got these EMF affecting the calcium, the voltage gated calcium channels, DNA, NADPH oxidase, the mitochondrial DNA, from increased inflammation EMF affects every single facet of our body, as well as nitric oxide. They're intertwined. Increase that EMF, you're decreasing the nitric oxide, you're nothing works, right? So we've got this perfect storm for impaired nitric oxide production, age, especially over the age of 40, physical inactivity, Standard American Diet medications, antibiotics, the azole, antifungals, SSR, antidepressants, birth control pills, NSAIDS, PPIs, a chlorhea, Antiseptic Mouthwash, Lori and white knee toothpaste. These affect the microbiome in the mouth, which affect that nitrate to nitrite reduction, glyphosate pollution, EMF stress. So EMF increases oxidative stress, increasing free radicals. This damages membrane cells and tissues, altering physiological processes. You don't have to have heat, don't have to have a thermal process to cause damage. Oxidative stress and inflammation play a role in every single chronic, degenerative inflammatory condition. Oxidative stress uncouples that nos, decreasing nitric oxide, increasing oxidative stress further. Nitric oxide inhibits that calcium influx, which modulates even potential more damage. So supporting nitro nitric oxide is the base of all health. It is the base of healing. It is not going to be the only thing you're going to be doing, somebody to something to somebody, but it should be the base. Because if you've got impaired circulation, or micro circulation, doesn't matter what else you're doing, nothing's going to get to where it needs to go. So open up that microcirculation, allow all these other things you're doing, all these other treatments, to work. So supporting the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway optimizes nitric oxide. It decreases oxidative stress and inflammation. So thank you very much. It's my little kitty cat. So here's my Here's my email. So you know, if we don't get all the questions answered here, just shoot me an email. I'll be glad to to answer any questions.

Bill Clearfield  1:09:59
Okay, well, thank you. Great as well as always, Beth. So the answer the first the big question is, so what do we do about it?

Speaker 3  1:10:10
Okay, we can increase our nitrate, rich veggies, our arugula, spinach, bok choy, cabbage, beets, or we can take a nitrate supplement, and I've, I've formulated a wonderful oxalate free nitrate supplement. Most nitrate supplements on the market have spinach or beets in them, and these do contain oxalate so if there's some really sick people that don't want you know that are kind of trying to get away from the oxalates. So I formulated a nitrate formula that has arugula, so there's new oxalates in it?

Bill Clearfield  1:11:02
Okay, does your research show both RF or Wi Fi frequencies and magnetic fields power lines equally harmful? Or is one worse than the other?

Speaker 3  1:11:13
They're all bad. They're they're all bad. Get get a meter and you can, you can actually see, you know where, where all this stuff is coming from, but, but years ago, Dr Bob Marshall, who started premier research lab, he was really good on mitigating EMFs. And since he passed though that that whole like hit, all of his processes that were really cutting edge just just kind of gone by the wayside, but he was really into using, like magma hematite to help interfere with some of these. EMFs, he'd even go out and remediate some of these towers and stuff.

Speaker 2  1:12:14
Well Beth, just to add to that, because I just, I guess, hosted a podcast about EMFs so Wi Fi emission is actually gage around two to point four, 2.4 to five gigahertz, and power lines are basically 50 to 60. So that's why you really can see how powerful these things are. And as you and as something astounding to me, who actually declared EMFs as potentially carcinogenic. So that's already a statement for you, that they are recognizing this slowly,

Speaker 3  1:12:50
finally, finally. Yeah, it's taken a long time. I mean, they've known this for 5060, years. They have known this, you know, like they started to figure this out when they had the the submarines, you know, when they were trying to communicate with the people in the submarine. And so they used, like, these wavelengths, and all of these guys were coming down with cardiovascular disease and blood sugar dysregulations. So they've known this for for ages. Do

Unknown Speaker  1:13:23
you think we should wear tinfoil hats now?

Speaker 3  1:13:26
Oh, we will. How about, you know, supporting your nitrate tonight, right tonight, every single day, and if somebody's got a chronic issue, like, get some of those, those saliva test strips, so that you make sure that you're you have enough in your body, like 24/7

Speaker 2  1:13:51
well, to add to as you can discuss, your pathology, of of EMFs, you would see that there's a lot of production of IOs here. That's why constant intake of antioxidants as well, that we already know that A, C, E, there's so many things along with their nitric oxide, I think melatonin, oxygen,

Speaker 3  1:14:11
melatonin is is the star, the the nitrate and the melatonin, that is the star for keeping down that oxidative stress.

Speaker 2  1:14:23
You know, are you? Are you in in promotion of high doses of melatonin? Because there are, there are theories out there that you will suppress her own Pino gland.

Speaker 3  1:14:32
If you're saying no, no, no, Doris, Doris Lowe. Do you know who Doris Lowe is? Follow her on follow Doris L, O, H, follow her on Facebook. She does. She posts these like she's a nitric oxide researcher. She is, she is. Posted some studies she's done with Russell Ryder, the premier melatonin researcher. But she just like, a couple days ago, she posted a study showing that actually exogenous melatonin up regulates endogenous melatonin production. Because, remember that slide that I had with the melatonin, that you can actually upregulate the production,

Speaker 2  1:15:16
right? Well, I actually do 10 milligrams, not only because I was jet lag, but that's definitely something that I didn't use in cancer patients.

Speaker 3  1:15:24
Yeah, I use myself. I use like, 60 to 70 every night. Wow. The people like, when you use higher doses, like she had a whole protocol during the virus, you know, vitamin C melatonin. I added the nitrate to it, but some major doses of melatonin, you know, even, you know, 1000 milligrams. But she said, the people that get to sleepy from the melatonin, they've got some mitochondrial work to do. So you've got to help repair that mitochondria, because once you get those mitochondria functioning, you're not going to get that sleepiness from the melatonin.

Speaker 2  1:16:12
I think Stephen has a is raising his hand, okay,

Speaker 7  1:16:16
go ahead. Microphone muted. I've been using high dose niacin in pretty much every patient that crosses my path about 21 years. And you know, soon as it blooms, everybody complains about the hot flash. I don't actually like to mute it, because it generates a ton of nitric oxide, a lot of vasodilation, which can be a problem, especially if you administer fasting, which you should never do, and then downstream, you get probably more NAD than the supplements provided in the bloodstream. If you mute the hot flash, some of the benefits are still there, but you lose the PPA our system, alpha, delta and gamma. And I try to transition them through it two weeks or two months. Everybody's different, so they learn to accommodate it and the triggers left intact. But the hot flash rarely occurs after two months or so, unless they provoke it. And I give them guidance to how to manage it. Take out the seltzer in your wallet. I wouldn't recommend that every day, but if you're out to dinner, can be embarrassing. Have a few drinks and your face lights up. But I had people call me five years later to express their pleasure that they remember to have it in their wallet. They forgot it was there until they had a few drinks. Their nephew graduated from college, and now it's a problem, but it does make a lot of nitric oxide, and costelli was right. You shouldn't take it one bolus. You should take it every time you take food, and then you offset the postprandial litemia, and you're getting spikes on nitric oxide production two or three times a day because you're making

Speaker 3  1:18:05
that NADPH, yeah. PH is, is right? I mean the electron to your nos enzyme, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 7  1:18:13
Some people enjoy the flush. I got a couple guys, God bless them. They go to the gym and they take three grams on an empty stomach and work out, and they claim they can go another half an hour longer. Who am I to judge, you know, but you know, they're compliant with the nice and that's all I care about.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:32
Yeah, you might want to add some nitrate to that too.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:35
Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:18:38
there can be issues with my wife has pots, partial dysautonomia. Women far more common than men, and when I first started using it in clinic, she took 500 milligrams, and she was sweeping the floor, and she basically passed out. And I still hear about it 20 years later, but she's Sicilian. What are you going to do? But I realized I'm doing everything wrong. So I kept reaching out to people like Guyton and famous lipidologists and Castelli had the best advice only taken with food. Divided doses. Start them low, build it up, slow. Nobody wants to go through the pain. But it does so many things beyond lipids. Oh, for sure, in the nitric oxide alone. Your message, you know,

Speaker 3  1:19:26
yeah, I followed Abram Hoffer a lot. Yeah, I even got to hear him speak and stuff. And he's been, he was a father, kind of a niacin therapy. Oh,

Speaker 7  1:19:39
it was so sad to see him pass, but I forget if it's him or ounce will had horrible malocclusion. That's how they discover made the discovery. They gave him powdered niacin, my understanding wasn't even tablets. Imagine spooning out raw niacin because it healed his gums. They were purple and bleeding, and the dentist decided, I'm not going to pull your teeth. They told him he was going to pull him, but not until he was on niacin and healed his gums. So somehow the lab work got to his partner, who had the rabbit lab, I think it's before PETA, of course, and he was feeding him Chow to induce atherosclerosis, and they noticed in I think it was Hoffer Hofer, his lab worked cholesterol and the triglycerides had come down. Well, that's all they measured back then, was cholesterol and triglycerides. So he fed the rabbits niacin with their Chow, and sure enough, their blood work improved and they published it. But it was a desert crooked teeth. It's a great story. I love that story.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:44
So there's a, there's a question about whether there's calcium channel blockers have any place in your

Speaker 3  1:20:53
Well, there are. There are studies that show calcium channel blockers do work. They do down regulate like the EMF hypersensitivity, but however, I just showed you that nitric oxide regulates that intracellular calcium, right? So why would you want to be on a drug when you can eat more vegetables or, you know, just support the nitrate to nitrite to nitric oxide pathway with no downsides. You know? Why would you know?

Bill Clearfield  1:21:27
I mean, I'm answering the question that was in the chat. No,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:31
I know, I know, but that's, I'm just messenger.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:33
No, I'm

Speaker 3  1:21:35
not. No, no, I'm not. Don't get me wrong, but I'm just, I mean, I'm a pharmacist, you know. I know drugs, you know. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:45
Dr Nario, do you have some email online?

Speaker 2  1:21:50
Yeah, so some questions here, about, so you mentioned about there? So a little confusion, I guess, on their end, about iNOS, Enos. And then there's another one. What's, what are the good noses? They're all

Speaker 3  1:22:04
good noses, however, like your Enos and your n nos, Enos is your endothelial nos. This makes your nitric oxide mainly for your microcirculation and circulation, your n nos, your neuronal nos. This is heavily prevalent in your CNS and your iNOS inducible nos. This makes a nitric oxide that gets it stimulated by infection, inflammation, so your Enos and nos make nitric oxide on an as needed basis, your iNOS, this can get up regulated by infection, inflammation. However, remember I said that oxidative stress uncouples moths, so when somebody's got an infection and stuff, and that iNOS is up regulated. What you're really up regulating is the superoxide production, not necessarily the nitric oxide production.

Speaker 2  1:23:14
So it depends on the situation and how they're getting stimulated.

Speaker 3  1:23:18
Yeah, but the Enos and nos, these are both calcium, calmodulin, calmodulin connected, but iNOS is not right, that just automatically upregulated with infection and inflammation,

Speaker 2  1:23:37
right? So you mentioned about a term A while ago, deuterium depleted water. Did you expound on that? And where do you get this?

Speaker 3  1:23:46
Yeah, I don't know. I just know a little bit of it, but I just thought it was fascinating to figure out that that's what the mitochondria is making the deuterium depleted water. I know that. Um, so it's, it's not like when you have the deuterium and water, it's kind of a heavier water. And so they don't think that it has, it's, it says, you know, like, all of these reactions happen in aqueous solution, and so they think that the reactions don't happen as well when you've got when you're full of deuterium. But it's, it's real controversial. I just and there are some people selling that deuterium depleted water, but it's really, really expensive, and I've listened to him speak, and I've tried it myself, and I really, I didn't notice anything, and it's hard, it's hard to tell, but I just thought that was a real interesting fact, though, that that the mitochondria is actually making that

Unknown Speaker  1:24:59
They probably want you to buy more. Maybe that's

Unknown Speaker  1:25:03
it's expensive. Have you seen it? No,

Speaker 2  1:25:06
no, I've heard about it. That's why I, myself, am curious about what it brings to the health table. Since you mentioned it, I think it was asked by the audience too. Yeah. Okay. Um, no. Overdosing on nitric oxide,

Speaker 3  1:25:22
on overdoses. No, remember that, that study I showed you, where that showed that, you know, you know, go back in the slides and look at that, that study that I showed you that it showed that there wasn't any cytotoxic concentrations of nitric oxide. And so listen to this, like the the DASH diet, Dietary Approaches to Stop hypertension, has 1200 to 1500 milligrams of nitrate every single day. So that would be like taking, like the the nitrate product that I formulated, that be like taking two capsules four to five times a day to even just reach that. So if you got somebody taking two capsules a day or two capsules twice a day, because they're under a lot of oxidative stress. You're not going to OD on nitrate or nitric oxide and go back and like that the stuff that I talked about the peroxy nitrite. So that's the excuse that that people always talk about. You know that nitric oxide combines a superoxide and makes peroxy nitride, and peroxy nitride is damaging the cells and tissues. However, that just you know, if you read those studies, they can't prove it. They all say, you look at the wording, they all say, we suggest maybe could be, you know, they're not measuring the peroxy nitride. They're just assuming that it was there.

Speaker 2  1:27:14
So basically, yeah, no overdosing, pretty say, especially well, use their product,

Speaker 3  1:27:19
yeah. Or, you know, the DASH diet, you know it's got 12 to 1500 milligrams of nitrate per day, and that's used as therapy for cardiovascular disease, right? That's a lot.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:35
That is, that is

Unknown Speaker  1:27:38
Steven raising his hand,

Speaker 7  1:27:41
yeah, I couldn't help myself. I have MTHFR, 677, TT inherited from my mother, my dad, brother and I both when they Yeah, exactly the curse, but very common in autism and Asperger's and all that. I have an Irish Yeah, the Irish study on riboflavin is fascinating. I've been following every few years. They do follow up, I think, during the 20 years McNulty, several of them at the University of all set if you were homozygous versus heterozygous or normal wild type, those two ladder groups, no benefit, but 1.6 milligrams of rival Flavin and blood pressure came down systolic, eight to 12 points. Clearly, nitric oxide is involved there because you're greasing MCH of R enzyme

Speaker 3  1:28:38
Well, but, but you saw the the picture where I had the NOS enzyme, your your flavins are one of those electron carriers down to your enzyme.

Speaker 7  1:28:49
Yeah, it does lower homocysteine a bit too. And in China, they did the CSS now, csppt, all these subsidies, because a huge trial long term, not a lot of folate supplementation, folate, so they're largely deplete in the Chinese population. And what was it? Point eight milligrams, not even a milligram, a folic acid, which isn't methylated folate, but the stroke risk versus an allipril alone, adding that to an allipril in the treatment arm, 21% lower stroke in the guys like me, the individuals with the homozygous defect in the 677 74% additional reduction in stroke and a benefit in slowing down kidney disease and a few other things. Clearly, you know, the folate is necessary,

Speaker 3  1:29:48
yep. Well, you've got to have that that to make your BH four. Yes. And what keeps the NAS coupled

Speaker 7  1:29:57
right? I appreciated that part of your lecture. That was great. I wish I had the slide deck, because I wanted to show some people that slide.

Speaker 3  1:30:04
Well, they'll share the slides with you, and we'll put it on

Speaker 7  1:30:09
our website. Yeah, I'm new. This is I'm a first timer here, so I apologize.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:13
Well, welcoming.

Speaker 7  1:30:16
I'm enjoying it. I'm tired, but I don't want to go to bed yet.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:22
Okay? So this is our website, aos, rd.org/webinars, put all all the videos we've been here. This is October. Now is four years we've been doing this, and we have we put the videos. Sometimes we'll get the transcripts, and if we get the slides, we'll put them on there too. So someday we'll figure out a way to correlate, you know, to capture all that stuff. And I think we'd have a pretty nice, you know, compendium of alternative medicine. So Doctor Quinn, there you go. There's your there's your project, wonderful. Okay, well, John's not on tonight. You got any others? Derek, Doctor Nario,

Speaker 2  1:31:05
yes, grounding is that something that can negate? EMF, it

Unknown Speaker  1:31:11
sure helps. I agree.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:15
I actually saw studies got a

Speaker 3  1:31:18
grounding bed and a grounding mattress cover. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:31:24
yep, that's definitely a yes on our end also. So yeah, walking barefoot or hugging on trees, holding on to to plants. So this definitely in the Gaza. But how long can you really do it, right? So

Speaker 3  1:31:41
that's why I've got, like, a grounding bed with a grounding, like mattress cover, so at least every night, then at least I'm grounding.

Speaker 2  1:31:54
Yeah, and then also one thing here, so I also have work in the cancer center and things that we see and theorize, because we actually have patients who, for example, this is in the realm of breast and brain cancer, that a lot of our breast cancer patients, not a lot, but there's a good number of them, you know, in the gym that they put their cell phones in their bras.

Speaker 3  1:32:16
Oh, I know it. And on their trail, I see that, and I just, I just go,

Speaker 2  1:32:23
yep, that's, we have a quite a few patients who actually kind of vouch that, hey, it's, it's probably that. But again, no, no proof on that. These are all anecdotal and just straight up from patients, and also gliomas, that is basically not, I mean, you don't see that on patients. That's on paper that when you use cell phones on your head, that's why they promote speaker, right, right? Not putting your phones near your head actually will prevent gliomas to form. So that's why, if you want evidence, there's there's some there for for you to see.

Speaker 3  1:32:55
I'll never forget this one guy walked into the pharmacy one day and, like, people were always like, pulling up their shirts and stuff like this. This guy pulled up his shirt and he goes, he has this big rash on his body, but then he's got his cell phone, like, stuck inside of his pants, right there too, you know, he goes, but he pulled up his shirt and he goes, What is this from?

Unknown Speaker  1:33:18
I go, look, take that cell phone.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:22
It's probably burning him up. Exactly,

Speaker 3  1:33:24
exactly. And all these guys that have them in their pockets, radiating their gonads, I

Unknown Speaker  1:33:33
know the jewels, right? They're built. That's it on my end. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:39
okay, so Beth, so I'm Archie Bunker, you know, I have, I'm gonna have a hamburger, a French fries and a Coke, no ice, a real coke. None of this Coke Zero stuff for dinner. I got my cell phone in my back pocket or my front pocket. I'm gonna be up at three o'clock in the morning looking at, you know, looking to see what stocks, stocks I'm going to buy in the in the morning, or Bitcoins. And so, what do I do? And I don't feel so good,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:16
yeah, I bet you don't.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:18
So, so, so, where do I go? How do, how do we counsel somebody, you know, like, like, Archie, on on, on how to, how to, how to proceed. Here they will

Speaker 3  1:34:29
take out the take out the cell phone away from his body. For starters, you know, at least get him, get him on a couple capsules. You know, of some nitrate every day, because you're probably not going to get his diet changed overnight, you know, and at least start getting that circulation going, you know.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:52
Okay, are there any lab tests that you you look for that that tell you, I mean, other than the the little saliva thing is that that is that your gold standard, well,

Speaker 3  1:35:03
that shows whether you know, you can reduce that nitrate to nitrite, and then, if you take a couple capsules, or you eat a big salad, you know, test before, and then take a couple capsules, or eat a big salad, and then test like, an hour to an hour and a half later, if you don't change that strip pink, that means your microbiome is disturbed. And so you start asking questions, are you using mouthwash, using fluoride or whitening toothpaste? Are you using, like, any antibiotics or even herbal antibiotics. But the beautiful thing about nitrate supplementation is you actually help rebuild those microbiomes. You're increasing the bacteria that reduce the nitrate to nitrite. So there have been a couple of people where it has taken them, like, a couple weeks of taking the capsules before we could start getting that, that pink to to change, you know. But I've seen people's blood glute, you know, fasting. Blood Glucose come down. Their hemoglobin, a 1c come down. The hscrp come down because you're decreasing the oxidative stress and inflammation. So you're going to see some of these marker these oxidative stress markers, inflammatory markers, come down.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:42
Okay, great.

Speaker 2  1:36:46
Oh, there's also a black garlic Beth, that's right, H, 2s hydrogen sulfite, another support for your nitric oxide formation.

Unknown Speaker  1:36:57
I

Speaker 3  1:36:59
but then, you know, you've gotta make sure somebody's not producing a whole whole lot of that too,

Speaker 2  1:37:05
right, right? Like SIBO? Yeah, that's something to recommend. Archie, maybe he likes a bad breath. If

Speaker 3  1:37:16
somebody put a question, what do I recommend for SIBO? I actually formulated a product that's being distributed by the same people that are distributing my nitrate product that I initially called Bio five. It's got a prebiotic, a probiotic, a parabiotic, a postbiotic, and it's got bacteriophages in them. Do you know what bacteriophages are? Okay? These bacteriophages I have in this product actually are effective against E coli, Listeria, salmonella, the three most common foodborne pathogens. So this product is is pretty there's nothing like this on the market to have those five combined together. So we're getting pretty good luck on that it.

Speaker 2  1:38:15
So the phages are now being developed, because before, when I heard about it, they're they're being used to carry these strains. There's so many different bacteria phages that I heard before, but now this is a more developed, complete technology. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:30
yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:32
All right, awesome.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:33
You'll name that later, right? Once you're seeing this,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:36
yeah, I think, I think, I think it's probably about time to name it. So okay, so thank you so much. Beth, we're we've had, we've had a great time. And as you can see here, in the chat for CME credits, there's the there's the link, click on that and answer a couple questions. It's $30.02 CME credits, ama, category one. Aos, rd.org/webinars, for all the videos in the past, and most of the slide shows also, sometimes there's transcripts also on YouTube. Go to Clearfield Medical Group, and most of the videos are there. And we got monetized this week for the first time. Unbelievable. I don't know what to do with it exactly, but yes. So okay, so we're going to say good night for our CME portion, and now you can tell us what the names of the what names of the products are, and where to get them, and all that good stuff. So

Speaker 3  1:39:34
approve medical solutions. I guess uh, it

Unknown Speaker  1:39:42
proved. I don't

Bill Clearfield  1:39:50
know if you can see it, these folks here, right? I know if you can see that it's oh,

Speaker 3  1:39:53
oh, put it in front of your face because, because you've got that. There we go. There we go. Yeah, right, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:01
So this is the weight loss powder, right, right. One powder,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:07
but oxide

Bill Clearfield  1:40:09
somewhere.

Speaker 3  1:40:10
Yeah, they are. They have my oxalate free nitrate product. Mm, hmm, which I added a little five methyl tetrahydrofolate to it. There it goes. There's there's some up there,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:26
right here,

Speaker 3  1:40:28
right and I added five milligrams of zinc, balanced with copper for the immune system. So, because it always irritated me when people start taking zinc and they don't balance it with copper. I just that's been like a pet peeve of mine, this for many, many years. And the prove medical solutions also have my bio five, but they it was renamed high maintenance, but we're going to rename it like I, I formulated three products for another company, and he just didn't know how to market it, so approved medical solutions. We have purchased it now, and so we're going to probably name that, rename the high maintenance. And also, have a product called signal, that is, it's the only product on the market that has a patent for increasing sexual desire and pleasure. So in 1997 I started monthly Women's Health seminars where I was teaching women like how to like eat balance, or hormones, get some progesterone balance their adrenals and so, you know, I've been taking care of women for a long time, but years ago, I went down this genetic rabbit hole because 70% of the people that take SSRIs have sexual dysfunction, yeah. And in fact, you know, they use SSRIs for premature ejaculation, you know, but 70% of the people have it. And back in the 90, early 90s, before I got into all this, I was on some antidepressants, and I had the sexual dysfunction. So I went down this genetic rabbit hole, and I found that saffron can reverse a sexual dysfunction, side effects of SSRIs. So I knew years ago that I was going to put saffron in it. And then I saffron. They I used a saffron that has numerous studies showing that it improves sleep. When you sleep better, everything's better decreases depression, decreases, anxiety decreases, like mindless snacking. Then I added some Damiana. Damiana is one of the most adulterated herbs on the market, but I found one from the same company I'm getting the the saffron from these companies are dealing with farmers that have been growing it for generations. Damiana has been used for years, like hundreds of years as aphrodisiac, and I have some notogening, notogening, and is an adaptogen. So I was trying to address all of these things. Like this guy that hired me to do this, he had a men's formula that was going crazy, and these men were saying, Well, what are you going to do for our women? So he hired me to make this for his women. So I tried to address all these things going on inside of a woman, you know, that that is interfering with her even thought process of going going there. And I added some ergothioneine. Ergothioneine is my favorite antioxidant. Ergothioneine is the only antioxidant that has its own transporter into the cell. So when you under oxidative stress, is OC, TN one, this transporter lights up and it's searching for this ergothioneine. And arothy is is in mushroom. So, you know, it's from the ground, so we don't get that much of it anymore. So I added some of that. So this thing, even though I formulated it for women, there's nothing in there that says that men can't take it too. But one of the first things people people notice when they start taking it is they sleep better. And when you sleep better, everything goes better.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:49
It's called signal. Signal, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:53
okay, we get that at approved medical school. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So those of you that are new here, you don't get this stuff anyplace else, right? No, you're not, and you didn't pay $1,800 to a 4m for it either.

Speaker 3  1:45:11
No, it sure didn't. Sure didn't.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:17
Okay, so Well, what can I say? Beth, you know, it's great as always and always, you know, too much, too much to even even take in all at once. So, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:45:30
there was a lot. But that's why I try to, I try to kind of make the slides, like really chocked full of information, you know, so that when you know, when you go back and look at it, you know what I was was trying to say,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:46
look, yeah, okay, so I'll have that. We'll have the slides up on on a website. Usually I have the video up either that it's the same day or the next day, although I think last week I somehow had slipped through. So I'll get last week's on also next week, just to let you know we have the Galleria. Galleria is that who it is, Doctor Nario is

Speaker 2  1:46:09
the testing for cancer detection and screening,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:12
cancer detection screening, real, yeah, so that that'll be next week. And again, Beth, thank you so much. We'll send you a contact list and a video when it's ready. If anybody has any comments or questions for Beth before we leave, let us, you know, speak now or get it to me and I'll get I'll get it. Yeah. So, yeah. So, so next week, we're going to be talking about a cancer screening test. The week after that, we're going to have Michael Nelson, who we missed because he had a little medical emergency a couple in the in the summertime about brain health. So we have some good stuff coming up. And anybody having it? So I will be at ammg in Salt Lake at the end of the month, October 30, and I'm going to be speaking about rapamycin, believe it or not. And anybody else? Dr Nario, there's doesn't a for him, have a, he's a faculty there, so doing an ongoing women's health or women's

Unknown Speaker  1:47:31
hormones for next week, for next

Bill Clearfield  1:47:34
Yeah, women's work stuff they're doing. Anybody else have anything they're presenting, or anything, anything to share with with everybody. Dr Quinn, how are you fixed this this week?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:51
What do you mean by fixed?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:56
What's going what's going on in your world?

Speaker 8  1:47:58
Starting to scare me? Oh, well, we have our Saturday meetings that we're inviting people to. Last Saturday was really amazing with Doctor zvania, who, as you know, is an indie and a American Native Tribal judge to help get everything kind of off the ground, as far as Dr Burgess's visions of a of various type of treatment or medical type of centers with full protection from the regulatory agencies. So if people are interested in this whole thing, it's a big movement, I would encourage showing up on Saturday?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:41
So, so I had, I kind of got dropped in as the host there, you know, accidentally, automatically last week, because I turned it on and had to leave. So that's at 12 noon, Eastern and 9am Pacific, exactly. If you send me the links, I'll make sure that we I mean, is it open to anybody, everybody, or is it, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:49:07
yeah, it's open to everybody. And then there are some people that I know that have strong interest in, that, that we encourage will, will come, I think especially, you know, like Doctor Nario, with all of your connections to Philippines and all these different things. So we can get an entire type of system, and as I mentioned before, like a compendium of various treatments and things. And obviously Beth, we would have your your products in this Compendium with it's going to take some time and effort, but hopefully it's for all of us that are interested in and or practice, I guess what people are calling functional medicine

Unknown Speaker  1:49:49
sounds good. Okay,

Speaker 8  1:49:51
yeah, so we'll get the info out. Dr Clearfield, I think will have it

Bill Clearfield  1:49:55
lots of stuff going on.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:59
Oh yeah. Oh my god, yeah, that's just lots

Bill Clearfield  1:50:01
of stuff going on. Okay, alright, thank

Speaker 7  1:50:03
everybody, because thank you first venture boy, I enjoyed that. Beth, and I'm going to try to be here every week, because I do a lot of these webinars. Stephen Hopper, thank you, if you're still on. He turned me on to this. He watched me do the one on lipoproteins last week, and they failed to push the record button, so I have to do it next week. You probably know Tom Lewis and Dr harshfield. They are heavily involved in that group, but this is, you know, same high quality stuff. Thank you.

Speaker 2  1:50:39
You should do the lipoprotein lecture for us then, then we'll record it for you.

Speaker 7  1:50:44
I updated the slide deck, since I have a second shot to get recorded. Added on Xena steriles, you know, hyper absorption and hyper synthesis, because that's kind of cutting edge, and hardly anybody even knew about, generally, the lipoproteins. But I thought, hey, I'm a second shot. I'll give more good information, because I'm a high absorber. And there's actually a probiotic that's very good. It has similar efficacy to Zetia and but it's, you know, more organic. It manipulates bile salt hydrolase, and it won't allow the cholesterol to be absorbed. It deconjugates the bile salts, which is really cool. And I compared it. I took it for a while and it stopped. Took zedia and the data and their studies turned out to be correct, but you have to take it twice a day. You take it with food, and it's cool stuff. I lost contact with the researchers or para twin brothers that were at McGill in Montreal. Now they have a micro pharmaceutical company, their engineering gut friendly microbes to do things you'd expect the drug industry to come out. And they did, finally, before they left, McGill show me the mechanism and how to best optimize it. You of course have to eat fiber, take some inulin or whatever. So the bugs flourish, and they have food to make bile salt hydrolase for greater length of time. But it's very clever. I could make a case for using niacin and that, and it would solve most of the lipoprotein and absorption issues anyway. I kind of went off on that, but that'll be on the side deck next week. I'm still tweaking it.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:45
Okay, all right, we'll, we'll be in touch. You bet we'll have you on the schedule before. You know, it's

Unknown Speaker  1:52:55
permission I do a lot of things

Bill Clearfield  1:52:58
competent. So, okay, no, I they always say nobody asked me to help them paint paint their house twice. Yeah, I get once, and they I never get asked the second time. So

Speaker 7  1:53:11
I could never understand why I had to do my dad's sign my dad's shoes before church, and he always had me doing all the work around the house. And my brother got off the hook, and my mom says, you know, my brother, your brother's smart. He does a crappy job, and your father won't ask him anymore. I said, Too late. You know,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:33
lots of great talks and great presentation, uh, kudos in the in the chat, there for you. Beth, too. So good. Okay, so great.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:43
Thank you, everybody.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:44
Are you still in touch with Maria and those? Are they still around? Okay? Yeah, okay, alright. Alright. Say hello to them. I haven't seen them in a while, so Okay, everybody, have a good night. We'll see you again next week, and I'll, I'll try and get a an email out about the Saturday morning, or Saturday, noon on the on the East Coast soarray Okay, so thank you all. Okay. Okay, thank you, bye bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai