Speaker 1  00:25
Hey, Dr Clearfield, Chris, here, Hi, Chris, how are you? I am doing well, my camera is not working. I have had Barracuda of a day. So let me share my screen. There we go. And I understand you're traveling, my friend, not tomorrow. Oh, tomorrow. Okay, yeah, I'm

Bill Clearfield  00:54
going to AMG in Miami, and I think a 4m is this weekend, also it is

Speaker 1  01:01
now. I remember being at a forum or lecturing at all the conferences, and then a ammg came along and lectured there a couple of times. So

Bill Clearfield  01:11
So I used to speak at am a 4m and then the gal who used to invite me if she left, and they haven't asked me

Speaker 2  01:18
back since. So Well, their loss, their loss, it is their

Bill Clearfield  01:22
loss. So ammg has, has me. I This is like the 10th or 11th straight session where I'm the last speaker, I'm the first speaker and the last speaker. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  01:34
well, you're, you're the cleanup batter. Well,

Bill Clearfield  01:37
you know, we run our own conferences, and one time I was at credit hour short, so I had to jump in real quick. So I told everybody it was I was just, I was saving the best for last. So that's what I that's what that's what I tell them. But so I, I always dedicate the last the last lecture. I call it the Johnny Castle Memorial Lecture. Hey, there we go. You remember who Johnny Castle was? I know Johnny castle. You know Johnny castle.

Speaker 1  02:12
He was, was he not in? Tell me. Am I wrong, either Reno or Nevada? Am I wrong?

Unknown Speaker  02:19
Nope, not that Johnny castle. They know

Bill Clearfield  02:24
anybody else out there know who Johnny Castle was? Joel, I know you know, so don't you don't remember. So let me give you a hint, nobody puts baby in the corner. Does that help? I

Speaker 2  02:43
Nobody puts baby in a corner, yep. Does that help? Is it

Speaker 2  02:55
some hint? Shoot, it's a good hint.

Bill Clearfield  03:00
Somebody in the audience always knows, right?

Unknown Speaker  03:05
Johnny Castle, Johnny Castle, Johnny Castle, right?

Bill Clearfield  03:15
So I'll leave it there. Leave it, leave it as we'll leave it as a quiz, and

Unknown Speaker  03:20
I'm not going to google it, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  03:22
don't do that.

Bill Clearfield  03:24
Would be cheating.

Speaker 1  03:26
That's right. Well, I'm in the process of cheating. Just so you know, any,

Bill Clearfield  03:29
any process of cheating, anything

Speaker 1  03:34
i i would be a bad cross witness if I put my hand on saying, I will hereby. Oh, I Okay. Now, okay, I get it now, yes,

Bill Clearfield  03:45
but you get so, you get it so, but do you get why I call it that?

Speaker 1  03:53
I don't know that part, at least. I now know from China Castle is, I mean, are you're speaking from Dirty Dancing? Yes, there you go. Yeah, okay, that's, that's an additional clue for everybody. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  04:06
Dirty Dancing should have known.

Unknown Speaker  04:10
Yeah, that's funny, right?

Bill Clearfield  04:11
Yeah. So, you know, every, every, every good character needs to have, you know, in the story, what we call a white hot imperative, you know, that's think that thing that you got to do, sort of like your main points in your talk here tonight, right?

Speaker 1  04:24
Oh, my goodness. There's expectations like that. Oh boy. Not being stressed.

Bill Clearfield  04:31
What was Johnny Castle's white hot imperative throughout the whole movie? What did he have to do?

Speaker 1  04:38
I don't know if I ever actually watched the movies? I can't speak to that. I don't get out much. My friend,

Bill Clearfield  04:45
the movie's 25 years old. I mean, the guy, the guy's been dead since 2009

Speaker 3  04:55
white hot, imperative. Well, it obviously had to do with dancing. Obviously, right, right? So

Speaker 1  05:02
I'm going to assume he's not going to be sidelined or something I have no idea, right?

Bill Clearfield  05:07
Well, that was, you know, the bad guys tried to sideline him throughout the whole movie.

Speaker 1  05:17
And 1987 was that movie? Yeah, it was a long time ago. A long time ago.

Bill Clearfield  05:26
Actually doesn't seem that long ago. I can still remember 1987 I

Unknown Speaker  05:31
was in high school at that time.

Speaker 1  05:35
Yeah, I graduated high school at 84 myself. So

Unknown Speaker  05:38
did you Okay?

Unknown Speaker  05:39
Graduate College 88 naturopathic school. 92 nice,

Bill Clearfield  05:46
you're just a baby. Then, that's right, I

Speaker 1  05:49
cried like one too. I guess I wouldn't want to be put in the corner either.

Bill Clearfield  05:56
So, yeah, so I gave a talk a couple weeks ago on about low dose naltrexone, right? And, you know, it was developed in 1985 that's when it sort of came to be. So I started the talk with I went and looked up. You notice card? You see, like in a card shop, you know, you were born in 1957 what the price of the

Unknown Speaker  06:20
Oh, yeah, yes, yes.

Bill Clearfield  06:22
So I went and looked all that up. That's how I started it. So, so what was the, what was the most popular car in 1985 best selling car?

Unknown Speaker  06:32
Ooh, I'm gonna say Mustang, no,

Unknown Speaker  06:38
some sort of,

Bill Clearfield  06:41
yeah, it was a Chevy Cavalier.

Speaker 1  06:44
That's what my wife had. She had an 88 Chevy Cavalier. No way,

Bill Clearfield  06:50
yep, the average price home in Reno was 70 to 90,000 and a Corvette cost $24,403

Unknown Speaker  07:02
right? Sure. Our first

Speaker 1  07:04
house, we bought it 93 it was a 15 143 square foot house. 1500 43 square feet, $119,000 and now its value is $545,000

Bill Clearfield  07:19
well, we have all that. We all have that. So my first house was four bedrooms, two and a half baths, with three quarters of an acre upon the stream. And it was 32,500

Unknown Speaker  07:37
Oh, beautiful. Yeah, it was,

Bill Clearfield  07:41
it was pretty expensive. It cost me $273 a month. Interest rates were 13% at the time.

Speaker 1  07:49
I think ours was like 8% because I was newly minted and private practice, and they thought I was high risk,

Unknown Speaker  07:59
really.

Bill Clearfield  08:01
Yeah, you know you chiropractors, you know you are all high risks.

Speaker 1  08:04
Chiros are the the ones that do really well for themselves that in dentist, those are, if I had to do it over again, I have a chiropractor friend in Indiana. She does 100 people a day at $65 cash practice. She's making $6,500 a day, and she's on this large chiropractic Management Group. Grow your practice to the million dollar practice. It's just as with a smile my my last manipulation is even better than my first at the end of the day. Yeah, wow. Well,

Bill Clearfield  08:33
Doctor Dr Nario is going to integrative medicine school with with Andrew wild, and he's doing that. He's doing. He's doing $6,500 a day. Also, he might be spending $6,500

Unknown Speaker  08:48
a day. Thanks for reminding me, so

Bill Clearfield  08:50
Dr Nari of so Chris before, usually before we start, we're, you know, we usually get from Dr Nario, what's the tip of the week for for those of us who are too, too lazy or too cheap to go to integrative medicine school ourself. We're sort of getting, we're getting the Cliff Notes version here. Every week we learned not to ride a bicycle like that was a big reservation river revelation.

Speaker 4  09:13
Well, right? Yeah, be be afraid of bicycles, that's what I say.

Speaker 5  09:19
But yeah, you're ready for the tip of the week? Alright? For the tip of the week, alright. So there's

Speaker 4  09:24
a So, just to give you a background, doctor, Chris, that doctor, wow. Focus is more of natural, integrative, none of these new peptide stem cells. So he, he's really back to basics, type of approach. So one of his big passion in our herbs. So currently a study on nutrients. 2024 is a journal the Washington State University trial. Actually 18 overweight, obese adults were the samples and 12 ounces of elderberry juice daily for one week. Results were 24% lower blood glucose, 9% less insulin, 27% more fat, oxidation, fat burning post high carb meals and at rest. So the thing here, it's really more like a weight loss supplement, and they also saw in gut health impact increases the beneficial gut bacteria, the Firmicutes, acting the bacteria, decreased harmful bacterialities, basically a healthier gut, and it's also reducing inflammation in these systems. So the mechanism of action, as they said, anthocyanins, anti inflammatory, anti diabetic, improves insulin sensitivity, the recommendation those six ounce of the juice and that sinus in four cups of blackberries, very potent dose were, again, metabolic support, and that's why, again, we're all in this weight loss world nowadays. So this is one thing that's just caught my attention. But of course, the sample side of this study was 18 people, and it was done in a short duration. But that's the good thing about that one week in terms of assessment, they already saw weight loss in these subjects. But again, you cannot always bank it on supplements. There are always going to be confounders like exercise, lifestyle and also side effects. Raw elderberries can cause nausea and diarrhea, so, but that's another tool that you can put in your weight loss arsenal,

Bill Clearfield  11:30
detox. So, so. So, just to be clear, six ounces of elderberry juice a day, or more than once a day.

Speaker 4  11:36
Six ounce a day, that's not bad at all. Not bad, right? So add it in your doctor bill. You have your weight loss, yeah? We'll

Bill Clearfield  11:45
add it. We'll add it in. We'll put it in with the apple cider vinegar, yeah, uh, yeah.

Speaker 4  11:50
I'll tell doctor. While you've helped people with with that advice, talk

Speaker 1  11:55
to Doctor Weil. I in 2002 I was lecturing at the local, conventional allopathy medical school, and there was an osteopathic considered alternative with the nature paths and the chiropractors and the acupunctures and the shamans, we were all considered cash, yep. And so what's interesting is Wendy Cahoots, a medical doctor, which was part of the NIH grant that we were participating in to educate the fourth year medical students. I gave, we all gave parting wisdom to the fourth year students. And so she started with you folks probably were not told by your professors, but antibiotics don't work. That was her starting statement. Antibiotics do not work without a competent immune system. And so if you give an example of a full blown AIDS patient, and that no matter what antibiotic without an immune system always going to work, my parole was we must all be perpetual learners. Would you each rather go to a person that graduated top of their class at some prestigious university, but never learned anything over the last 20 years. Or do you like to have the middle of the class that was a perpetual learner, and remembering that you folks know more diagnostics and therapeutics than the people that sat in these chairs five years ago, the fields are advancing significantly, but you will become dated, and five years from now, they're going to feel you're the dinosaur, unless you've continued to that was my pearl. As a 34 year old guy, that was my pearl.

Unknown Speaker  13:32
I'll send the message out. He's okay, but yeah,

Speaker 1  13:35
Wendy. Wendy Kahoots was Andrew Weil graduate so and she was speaking the, you know, like, without an immune system. Hey, I don't care what animal if you have. So, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  13:47
he, yeah, he's like, That. I do.

Bill Clearfield  13:49
I knew him before he had his beard. And, you know, like Samson without, you know, without the beer, you know, without the beard, he was nothing.

Unknown Speaker  13:57
So he's weaker. Yeah,

Speaker 4  14:02
he's kicking at 82 he's running around campus seeing patients. So good

Bill Clearfield  14:08
for him. Okay, Doctor Chris, you ready? I am okay, everybody. Thank you for being here for our weekly get together tonight we have Doctor Chris melitis. He's no stranger to us. He's been with us a couple of times before. He always brings us something very interesting and thought provoking. He's a practicing nutritional and holistic family practice, physician, international, lecturer and author of more than a dozen books and 200 national articles. He is he partners with some of the most well respected companies in the industry, and he provides patients with quality natural supplements and equipment. In his own words, his primary mission in clinical care is to support healthy aging while helping patients overcome barriers to optimal health. Many patients and practitioners underestimate the profound consequences of losing lean body mass. That's really become a thing lately, hasn't it? I know Stefan's, you know, big into that. So we didn't hear much about that before the ozempic age. Really, after age 40, individuals lose one to 2% of muscle mass annually, and one and a half to 5% in strength annually. Muscle loss, or sarcopenia, is amplified with the widespread use of GLP one based weight loss protocols, while extremely effective for fat reduction, GLP ones often accelerate muscle loss through evidence based nutritional and supplement strategies. This is manageable. This webinar will equip you with the science based clinical insights to better communicate the value of muscle centric longevity with your patients, we explore muscle preservation health techniques to support systemic homeostasis, improve metabolic health, vascular, cognitive and emotional health, and introduce a novel food based compound that in Clinical Trials, enhances muscle physiology and counteracts anabolic resistance. So with that, just to let you know that we are eligible tonight for two CME credits, ama category one, and I'll put the link in on how to get to it shortly. And unfortunately, the price went up to $50 not my doing. We don't actually get anything for the credits. So if you're interested in that, I'll put the I'll put that in the in the in the chat, and Dr Chris, the floor is yours. Thank you so much for being always.

Speaker 1  16:32
Thank you for the warm introduction, and thank you everyone for spending time with me. One of the big controversies, as we see in the peer review literatures, do GLP ones smoothly cause excess muscle loss, and they say in some of the studies, well, no, there's no evidence of that. But I asked the question for our average patient coming into our clinical practice, are they well nourished to start with, they are generally overfed and under nourished, and hence the, sometimes the presentation of obesity along with other issues. So the question is, if all of a sudden, with a GLP, one or similar meds out there, because there's a litany of them now, including through compounding pharmacies that blend them, all of a sudden, I'm eating the same diet. Haven't changed that so they haven't came to one of us, and now I'm just eating less, and I'm injecting myself, and I'm eating less of the poor quality food I started with. And we wonder, why would we lose muscle mass when we were probably malnourished to start with, and largely of a nutritional status, so opposed to looking at just a GLP one, or, as I point out, bariatric surgery. Anytime we cut caloric intake, especially from poor quality foods, we're going to have a consequence. So we're going to have a myokines, metabolic health, mental health, morbidity and mortality. And we'll even talk about getting a grip on life, and we'll chat about that and a novel molecule. I am an independent educator for Myos, MD, the molecule with 10 patents on is called fordotropin. See it on the right hand upper corner, and I'm just a 10, nine nine educator for them. I am not being paid for this presentation. Decreased serum myostatin levels we know with obesity and disuse syndrome. So if we get an injury, we get a knee replacement, hip replacement, or we just become sedentary, more than we already are. Well, my assessment levels tend to rise. They also rise often with obesity that we what we also know is for the broken has been shown to increase protein synthesis and decrease the markers of protein breakdown. And I'm also independent educator for nitrogen bioscience, formerly known as chromodex, that off people that offer true nitrogen or nicotinamide riboside. So when we think of a muscular performance, and we just think of the human body, I don't know about you folks, but when I look at the human body, I still have that childhood wonderment of how in the world, does this all work? So we got a brain. We got a cerebellum. Many of you now know that the cerebellum contains 70 to 80% of all the brain neurons in mass. So we think, Oh, well, I'm very cerebral. And of course, we have our frontal cortex, but 70 to 80% of our neuronal densities and our cerebellum. And we now know the cerebellum is critical for rote memory and many other functions beyond what we used to believe was merely when I when I say merely, I say that tongue in cheek for pre reception and locomotion. So when we look at the muscle attack. So of course, we have cardiac muscle, we have skeletal muscle, we have smooth muscle. And I do promise you this will not become a mitochondrial gratification guru lecture. But if you think about the density of the mitochondria within our muscles, and then all of a sudden, if you think about the citric acid, Krebs cycle, TCA cycle, and, well, we got foods, we got carbs, we got fats, and, well, they all have to go down through that little citric acid cycle into electron transport chain to make ATP. And it's like all of a sudden, we're becoming more malnourished when we go on to a diet and so and once again, we're, I think, an overfed other nurse society in general. So one of the questions I raised when I was giving a lecture in New York about a decade ago, I had flown in at 11pm at night. I had a 7am keynote speak speech to give, and I rolled out of bed. And I've never had a whole lot of hair, but I've been bald for a good period of time, so I've got the Elmer Fudd hairdo, and I always make the self debris. Can you show Okay, well, you know, of course I had to wake up early for you folks for the hairdo, but still, even here, as I stand on the stage, it's four o'clock my time, my dream lens aren't fully on board yet. But I says, how many cells in my body, I asked the audience. I said, anybody can answer the question. But how many cells in my body are have to be tired, or in your body have to be tired before we perceive the status of fatigue, as I were talking about, this was a decade ago, genetics and epigenetics, and show you the pure of your literature that I feel very comfortable with, but I still don't know. And I've looked how many cells in my body have to be like these folks before I'm tired or exhausted. And I then raised up my finger, index finger, want to clarify that, and said, how many cells in my finger must hurt before I perceive pain? And I said, to make it even more complicated, I think we've all had that little mini Splinter, the microscopic Splinter you could barely see, or we've all had a paper cut, and often the little mini Splinter or the paper cut hurts more than a large Splinter or a big cut. So I said we must all stay humble in what we know. So that was younger me still lack of hair. So is it just low thyroid? Is it adrenal fatigue? Is a gonadal function is a sleep deprivation for sleep apnea is pervasive in today's world, part because of obesity, but also dental dentition has changed. The straight smile, the white smiles that used to exist a few decades ago are fading fast. And orthodontic work, until recently, was all about straight teeth, but not that wide smile to tongue ratio. And the question is, what's contribute to that 50 but ultimately, of course, it takes brain performance and it takes heart performance, but it takes mitochondrial function for us to circulate through our 60,000 miles of blood vessels, 100,000 times a day, is our heartbeat. And, of course, our neuronal function as we sit here, 20% of our oxygen, 20% of our glucose is going to our brain. And I give a very simple but silly but provocative example to my patients. I'm sitting across doing a consultation with a patient, and I will hold up my cell phone and I'll show them all my apps on a given page. I says, How good are my apps? If you think of my apps on my cell phone like the DNA within a cell, so a fingernail cell, a skin cell, hair cell, heart cell, whatever the cell might be, I said that takes energy to run that app, but if you are at a cellular deficit, what happens is you have a glorified $1,000 paperweight or more. So once again, it's all about manifesting that genetic potential. This is all preamble to our bigger conversation today. So skeletal muscle makes about 40% of our total body mass metabolically active. Clearly, if we lose that skeletal muscle, we've lost our ability to maintain weight loss. So let's say we've lost X amount of weight, but now if we've compromised our metabolically active tissue, then all of a sudden those calories will come sticking next to us back again, much like Velcro. And we also know that individuals over the age of 60 are classified that are classified in the lowest third of strength, we're 50% more likely to die of all causes of mortality than individuals with the upper third of strength. And I saw one of our good doctors that looks in a pretty good shape, that was on a video a little while ago with their shirt off and like, okay, it's all about muscle to a very large degree, and muscular strength is significantly and inversely associated with the risk of death of all causes, controlling for compounding variables, including cryo respiratory fitness. And this is way back in 2008 This is not something which should surprise any of us, but it's been, in my opinion, been under represented in the medical literature. And being the good Greek as I am, 48% Greek, 48% German, and the little hodgepodge of the rest. But which creature has one voice yet becomes four footed, two footed and then three footed? And many of you know there was an Egyptian sphinx, and there was also a Greek sphinx that protected the city of Thebes. And lo and behold, we know the answer is, mankind or humankind? We crawl, we walk, and then we go to our three legs with a walking stick, or these days, six legs, because we have those little roller scooters with the stand up scooters with the little tennis balls on the back wheels. So when we look at the sarcopenia and morbidity, mortality side of things. And this, again, a little bit more into the current literature, we see age related sarcopenia. Of course, there's hormonal factors in plant aging, mitochondrial dysfunction, excess weight, of course, contributes to the out of kinds which often battle the myokines. But then there's also telomere attrition. You know, it used to be like, we really want to have long telomeres. Well, we want to have just right telomeres, the Goldilocks too short, too long, probably both problematic for the peer review literature. So once again, the aging process becomes very challenging when you see here the poor diet. Well, malnutrition becomes something, and it becomes something because we're not maybe making as much hydrofluoric acid, maybe our brush border enzymes within our small intestine aren't doing their job, and where our picture if we were doing stool tests, our pancreatic elasticity levels are low, and other factors that come along with this include desensitization of our steroidal and thyroid receptors.

Speaker 1  26:20
So there's a proposal in a peer review literature that doing a hand grip strength, it should be a new vital sign in our office. So we do the pulse ox, we do the pulse we do the blood pressure, we take a temp, and we should also do a grip strength. And the reason that's being proposed is hand grip strength that serves as a functional metric in assessing muscle function and overall physical capacity, and particularly relevant to aging population, drip strength has an important connection to sarcopenia in total in the body. And as you can see in the bottom peak highlight area, several diseases have shown a correlation between low and strength, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, stroke, kidney disease, liver disease and some cancers. And clearly, if we're also weaker, we're more likely to fall and welcome to the broken hip and potentially pneumonia and other sick qualia as well. So I'm a big fan of grip strength measurement and clinical practice, and it's good to see it's coming out in the peer review literature. This was a 2024 article that came out speaking to this, and on that same article, they looked at associations of hand grip strength. And the reason I'm going to hand grip strength is something simple. It's a way to measure fairly consistent. We've got a female, we've got a male, we have a large male, we have a small male, we have a large female, or large female, we can kind of start categorizing what how do they compare to their equivalent peers, relative to age and gender and whatnot. So you can see association of hand grip strength, psychological health, oh, my goodness, functional abilities, morbidity, hospitalization. If you have good hand grip strengths, you're more likely to leave the hospital that if you don't have a good hand grip, stretch, go figure. And then, of course, mortality. And box two out of that same peer reviewed journal article, look at the morbidities that we have here. Of course, the diabetes, the metabolic syndrome onwards, cancers, hypertension, liver disease. And then we see musculoskeletal problems, of course, low back pains. And there's an argument that I often share with my patients, if you argue with the muscles, and muscles will always win. So you go in to get an adjustment, osteopathic or chiropractic adjustment, and your muscles are a hot mess. Good. ICD 10 code, look a hot mess under ICD 10 code, and it's like, but you know, you know, you know, you got to work on the musculoskeletal side of things. But when it comes to leaving the hospital and nutritional status, hand grip strength is a great measure, something novel in our clinical practice. It will give us some data sets. Will give us also an opportunity, in my mind, to engage our patients in the challenge. I want to see your overall strength improve. I'm going to continue to measure your hand grip strength, and let's pick two or three other things we see to also improve. So it's a great way, with our patients loving to see data. They want to see a lab result, they want to see EKG. They want to see the imaging. Well, this is a great way they can measure their success and making a difference in their trajectory. So when we

Speaker 6  29:24
Okay? Dr Meletis, yes, sorry, I was just asking you about the good strength before you you go to the other one. Is it because of its practical, or is it, in fact, really better than other modalities like the get up and go test

Speaker 1  29:43
from that peer review literature article, which, if you email me at natural med man at hotmail, I'll email you the journal article. They've looked at a review of the peer review literature, and they actually found that the hand group strength was a good metric. Now, throwing baby out with the bathwater, so to speak. You know, are there other great metrics as well? But it's one of those non invasive, easy to do while they're already sitting there getting their vitals done. The medical assistant or nurse can say, grip the strength and to give us that data set as well. So it's, it's easiest, the simplicity of it's beautiful, and the fact that they've crossed compared to other metrics, relative to comparison. So it's more of a convenient thing, and honestly, kind of fun. I mean, I know when I used to go to a chiropractor, 15 years ago, I would go in and play with whatever tool he had out there, before he came into the office and I was gripping that thing one time he said, Wow, your grip strength is and, yeah. And, of course, I was, you know, he was surprised on how good my group strength was, but my grip strength has diminished over course of time, so I've seen that trajectory as well. So yeah,

Speaker 6  30:49
all right, thank you. Thank you. Great question.

Speaker 1  30:52
So risk factors and my disclaimer on that I do not own any company that sells hand grip strength devices on a sense of humor here. So we see the risk factors for lower scale, the muscles, the mitochondria, the hormonal side of things, and for male and female. Like I mean, all of a sudden the female testosterone was her, dropping with menopause. The male testosterone is often dropping as well, with the changes as well. But then also we see changes in DHEA and other hormones, including thyroid, which we'll chat about. But the concept here with the muscle is that if we don't use it, we're going to lose it. So once again, welcome to the sedentary style. He might have been an Adonis at one point in time, and maybe he still is an Adonis under all that, but the reality is he's losing progress, and body emotion stays in motion. A body at rest stays at rest. And what happens if we end up with an injury? Then all of a sudden we might have been having tremendous momentum, and we've seen this in our patients over the years. They were doing great, and then they had that hip or the knee, or they had whatever their intervention, maybe a knee replacement, a hip replacement, they never rehabilitated totally, and they lost their momentum. And we're going to talk today about how disuse syndrome increases myostatin enhances anabolic resistance, and that anabolic steroidal resistance, but the application of amino acids within the muscle, and also, if you become critically ill right now as we talk, my sisters in stage four breast cancer has metastasized to her liver. She has a three and a half by three and a half liver tumor, and she's allowed herself to become emaciated, not a judgment call and but we know that up to 41% of people that pass from cancer is actually from malnutrition, and now she has all the other sequela of low albumin, hi Billy Rubin and and other problems, obviously. But many of us are familiar with the concept of EU thyroid sick syndrome. So you thyroid sick syndromes, you're on your hospital. I mean, you had COVID, you have pneumonia, you go to the hospital for whatever, and tomorrow, I do a lot of charity work for patients. And I were working with a woman that is actually 37 years old, with both urinary as well as GI bleeding. Prothrombin times are little on the high side. Her calcium levels exceptionally low. She's got a 2.89 on her total red blood cell count, 7.9 hemoglobin. And then my later call is going to be on a one with stage four lung cancer that has a 10 year old little boy. So these people are ill, but during that illness, for any of us, what happens is they say up to 75% of people hospitalized have a youth thyroid sick syndrome. This is important, because whether you're sick, ambulatory in the real world or in the nosocomial hospital based environment, our thyroid can start seeing some problems, and when we come severely ill or calorie deprivation, one of the things that's not being discussed in the peer review literature, if you go into severe calorie restriction, does your body perceive there to be a hostile environment? The answer is yes. So this euthyroid six syndrome is the total t3 and free t3 with a lower or normal t4 present and often normal or low TSH. But the t3 thyroid, as we know, because when we prescribe cytometal, for example, versus levothyrosine or Synthroid, we and we're going to have, of course, a much lower dose of our t3 dosing than our t4 dosing, because t3 to five times stronger than t4 but so now we're seeing that we don't have that t3 activity, and later on in our presentation, we're going to see the t3 thyroid actually goes directly down to the mitochondrial DNA to tell it how quickly to work. And then in term, what triggers our thyroid tissue to work? Well, it has takes mitochondria, takes energy, so the thyrocytes need the mitochondria, and the mitochondria need our thyroid sites to do the work and have peripheral conversion. So it's a very intriguing perspective, to say the least. And this also ties into often when we go on calorie restrictive diets, we see ourselves or our patients plateau. That's because we're going into conservation mode. We start with Patrick Swayze and Dirty Dancing today in conversation off a quote. But let's go to something also of my genre and era, Boo Boo and Yogi, so cartoon, Saturday morning cartoons, and what does boo boo and Yogi, what was your prime directive? The prime directive is to find the picnic basket. And so if you think about it, we're either going to go from t4 to t3 where we preferentially want to go. Or you can go t4 to reverse t3 and that's where park ranger is, not where you're going to score your picnic basket and get away with it. You want to be going towards t3 but insulation, things like Zantac and h2 antagonists and a myriad of other things. On another presentation I give actually causes to go to reverse t3 and so does illness. Also being low in zinc, copper and iron also causes macro pressures to go to t3 so we start becoming more malnourished and we start ending with problems. So with that, you'll see here on the graphic, the t3 thyroid here in the red box in the diagram, and it's like, okay, well, that's going down to the mitochondrial DNA. Isn't it intriguing that our eukaryotic us, and what was been postulated in literature, the prokaryotic mitochondria, however you want to look at that, they're working in synergy, and that's kind of an intriguing side of things. So once again, t3 enhances that ability for mitochondrial density. And if we're not doing a great job of converting the t4 to t3 or going wayward to reverse t3 then we have a problem. And I give the example of our brake pedal in our car as reverse t3 it's like having a typist that doesn't has no qualifications for typing, put them in front of your computer keyboard. Good luck on getting production. That's reverse t3 whereas t3 of course, is one of the fastest typists around. It's going to get the job done. I share a lot of these stories with my patients. As you can only imagine, you'll see in the red box here, it says Warning, don't die from dieting. Sadly enough, I truly believe that's what happened with my sister. We were traveling with her and her her boys, which were much younger than mine,

Speaker 1  37:30
and she, she was told she had a basal cell right on the edge of her nose. And so she had Googled it, as people do, some of us as well. And she said they're going to peel back my nose. There's going to be a big scar. So she went on a, in her mind's eye, an anti cancer diet, to a totally plant based she stopped all protein, all sugar, and started losing a massive amount of weight. She was 55 years old at the time, and she lost about 30 or 40 pounds in two months on this extreme diet to fight the cancer on her face, which eventually she had the moat technique. It ended up being fine. She didn't have to have her nose peeled back. But a woman that had not had a period for over a year had three periods each month up to the her diagnosis, which was four months later. So from no periods, totally menopausal for the year rule, to three periods for three months consecutively, and then diagnosed with inflammatory breast cancer. So the question is, she was dieting with the concept of being healthy, as many people do. But what we're doing, as you can see here, is we're mobilizing, and the pros here mobilizing lipophilic compounds stored in our body tissue, chlorine compounds, DDT. And we saw DDT that was banned in 1972 and, well, yeah, but they're still finding dde, the metabolite DDT, at 3.8 times higher amount in Alzheimer's patients. And then we have, of course, our forever chemicals with explain streaming along half lives. And once again, because we're always translating the science we know into English for our patients, I give the example of an old school feather duster with real feathers, like if you were to look at my desk, to be very embarrassing, and it's dusty. So I take a feather duster, I dusted off and look at there's no more dust on my desk. Well, I just went and made it systemic. I made it go to some other part of the room. And so when we're losing our fat and toxins and hormones that we stored in our adipose tissue, and we're already dealing with today's chemicals, can our body really hand the handle the additional burden of yesterday, year and yesterday, along with today, and sadly enough, that was a big change for my sister. Was that window of time when it's a dental causation correlation? No one will ever know, but food for thought. So with that resistance training, they talked about minimal dosing. This was a 2024, article, and I am not an exercise physiologist, but when I come across this literature and it's something better than nothing, I would argue some exercise is better than nothing. So if you're gonna just sit, sit, sit, and never get any walking or activity and be better do something so many individuals do not participate in resistance training and perceive lack of time as a barrier. So they say, Well, what about the weekend warrior? What about so single set resistance exercise, which minimizes a set number and session duration, is one of the multiple exercises performed beyond many times where we called snacks. So we'll post good refrigerator. Well, I'm going to stop at my station advice, which I have in my room here, and I'm going to do some exercise. Something's better than nothing, question mark. So it's kind of interesting that we meet our patients where they're at. Not everybody's going to commit to a long program, but I generally find when my patients do commit to exercise, they start feeling the difference. The mild times change, the inflammatory processes start improving, and they have more giddy up and go and so. On that same note, they concluded we have not provided a recommendation for minimal dose exercise, but rather to continue to work on and maintaining strength and non athletes. A current review focused on muscle strength as a key outcome, because muscle strength correlates with mortality and other outcomes of health and fitness. Once again, 2024 remember the initial stuff that I was shared with was 2008 they're just further validating what we've known for a long time. If you're in good shape, you're probably more Jacqueline or something, more likely to do well long term. This is a pre print, not yet published in gastroenterology, and I've shared this with you because you're talking about how when we exercise in our muscle mass and the impact on the microbiome and gi health. And the graphic here does a beautiful job, in my mind, of capturing a healthier gut impacts our muscle and at the same time the muscle impacts our gut. Of course, we have the smooth muscle, peristalsis and all that, but we have this whole correlation of feeding the body. And nothing works in isolation. Where we live in a world of conventional modern medicine, of specialists for everything, we have the cardiologist. We have the electrophysiologist, different than a cardiologist in some ways. You work with both of them. You work with a person nephrologist, along with your internal medicine doctor, but you talk to the ophthalmologist, which I have a patient right now post cataract surgery, and she has a macular adhesion, vitro adhesion, and ophthalmologist is saying, I don't know what to do about it, but Well, she's also diabetic. She also got some thyroid issues. She's also got sleep apnea. She also has been ophthalmologist. Isn't interested or capable of reaching into any of those co morbid factors. So he said, we're in a weight and watch mode. If it gets worse, let me know. It's like, hmm. So to see the exercise, gut connection, very important we know about the gut brain connection, but also, of course, how short chain fatty acids, including butyrate, not only feed the, of course, colon and the TCA cycle, but also the muscle as well. So I just thought we kind of interesting to share, and I have that free print if someone wants to email me at natural Med, M, E, D, M, a n@hotmail.com, um, com. So we have bariatric surgery. We have rapid weight loss. It doesn't matter what the source is, we get pick on GLP one, but it serves no purpose. It's just merely a symptom of what's coming here we have, of course, the concept of lowering myostatin and enhancing protein synthesis with a fertilized egg that's never been exposed to heat, has 10 patents on it down in back anabolic resistance, and, of course, scalable muscle influences. So now on the anabolic resistance, we think, well, that's anabolic steroids, no, and like testosterone. DH, yet, no, it's actually the fact that our muscles no longer can actually take up things like leucine or isoleucine or valine as well, and there's a dysfunction at the cellular level. And particularly leucine comes up a lot with anabolic resistance that if you were to supplement something, you might want to consider doing cell like the photoprop, along with some leucine or branching amino acids in concert, along with, of course, having, for me, a balanced amino acid as well. So can you diet? Diet? And yes, you can. We also know that if you ever have a female that's looking to get pregnant, they recommend never have her lose, not that we have control of self care providers, but do not encourage her lose more than five pounds within six months, because otherwise, what's happened is we mobilized toxins and chemicals, which then are airborne or water born, you know, fluid born, body fluid born right before you plant a zygote and grow it. So they're fine literature that if you lose a whole lot of weight before getting baby weight, you actually can do a disservice for your outcome. So rapid weight loss increases muscle loss, no question about it, because once again, we're very few people are properly nourished to start with. So could you go on a GLP one or a bariatric approach to things and not lose muscle mass? Of course, you have your exercise, but most people that do these things may not be fully committed to that otherwise, often, but not always. They could have avoided those interventions. Preservation of muscle mass leads to a higher metabolic rate and maintains insulin sensitivity. So once again, muscles, of course, important, and once again, if we diet and we're only eating the most amount to start with, and that's a healthy choice compared to a Big Mac or something. And this is interesting. This was in the peer review literature speaking about it, but it was also on healthline.com and so this New York endocrinologist is quoted here. Sarcopenia affects the elderly population. Typically, it's associated with aging, true. However, rapidly losing weight with GLP, ones like ozempic and we only without proper diet and exercise, can also cause our computer, sometimes referred to, skinny fat at any age, negatively affecting a person's quality of life by reducing the stamina ability to perform daily activities such as easily walking upstairs, per Dr Kim, or practicing integrative seems evident, seems obvious, and that's where we come in. We offer to Hey, you can do this. Have you choose to do this, because it might jump start you, but let's make sure we're keeping you strong and leave you better, not worse from the process.

Speaker 1  46:36
I just had a patient in Texas, a husband and wife I've known forever in the healthcare field, and she's lost 91 pounds in six months with an injection approach to life, and he's lost 42 pounds in that same period of time. And so in their cases, they were actually supporting detox of phase one, phase two, phase three, of liver glutathione levels onwards and onwards, as well as taking care of their mitochondria, so reduce skeletal muscle for quality life, physical disability, frailty, practice ease, and it becomes a vicious catch 22 Now what's also interesting is, of course, as we're all getting older, especially for the female patient, but also for the male, especially if it's andropausal. And I've had plenty of gentlemen that have had prostate cancer surgery, and they've gone on anti androgens, and their bone mass starts going down, and because they don't have that anabolic, larger amount of testosterone. So now imagine the woman here, or maybe it's a man that looks like a woman, and she starts losing weight. So if she only walks and she's not exercising and running or jogging. Is she doing the same weight bearing exercise she did when she was a heavier person? No, now she's a lighter person. So she's going to bear less weight unless she starts doing some activity that creates that bone density aspect of things. So once again, we were going to lose weight. Does she need to put on a weight vest to have that same amount of weight bearing exercise you did before? It's just a philosophical question. I don't have an answer for you, but it kind of makes sense that, well, this person beared more weight. Now, of course, you're also more weight that can cause lower doses and other problems as well, but that's a whole nother conversation. So when we look here at the sarcopenia, there's also a direct link with Alzheimer's disease, so Alzheimer's and sarcopenia and vice versa, and it causes a whole cascade. We start becoming more sarcopenic, of course, neuro inflammatory processes and other things like that. And then we can start looking at reducing myostatin. So when you reduce myostatin, remembering the myostatin, if you have a an animal model of a myostatin, that is a myostatin inhibited, so there's no myostatin, no high levels of myostatin, you're going to have a muscle bound hamster, muscle bound bull. And there's actually a famous weightlifter, and he's was World's Strongest Man, Eddie Hall. Eddie Hall, if you're familiar with World strongest men. Man has lifted the most dead lift of any human known to humankind. And but he actually says, I don't ever use enhancing perform things. I have a myostatin defect, and I don't produce a whole lot of myostatin, so he's naturally stronger as a result of lower myostatin. Higher the myostatin, the lower the muscle mass, and the less your returns in the gym. All things being equal. So myostatin hip is muscle growth, so it's gonna be, don't want to have a larger obese people have higher levels, disuse syndrome, higher levels. So being centered lifestyle, higher levels, all things being evil, less Eddy Hall and or said like person has received and so has received a lot of attention. Deletion of myostatin and mice led to this secretion of irisin and the browning of white fat. So you want to brown your white fat and burn it into brown fat. Well, once again, lowering the myostatin is important. So by building muscle, you get that benefit, but also by lowering the myostatin. And the forwarder trope of reference test today has actually been shown to do exactly that lower myostatin that's elevated. So trigger alert only for those that love biochemistry and they say, oh, that's nothing, Chris, look at that big deal. We don't know all of these things. Okay? Well, the trigger which comes here the complexity of the human body, and to think that all of these things are occurring unbeknownst to us. And of course, we know some of these pathways. We don't know other pathways. And we look at m4 we look at IGF one, maybe a major growth hormone, we got vitamin D, which you think vitamin D? Well, one of the antithesis of Vitamin D is heavy metals. So if you're actually running along the busy highway, it's on byways the heavy metals can actually poison your vitamin D production. Go figure that it's not from soot on your skin. Interesting article. So, but this is the biochemist has occurred with sarcopenia obesity, and it's like, wow. Okay, so we're starting to have some interesting things that are nutrients, 2023 so I love to see the biochemical pathways as we currently know them, and because it gives us a aha moment. And so we're looking to lose weight, our patients are losing looking to lose weight or support healthy weight. And the process of heat production. There's numerous mitochondria containing uncoupled protein, um up, UCP, one, allowing them to generate heat by burning calories and the browning of our fat. And how do we brown our white fat cells. Cold exposure. Welcome to the plunge. Cold plunge. Certain hormones like irisin. Once again, if you've decreased your myostatin, you can improve your irisin levels, norepinephrine and specific exercises thermogenesis, once again, that whole process of burning the calories and burning the brown fat and obesity and weight loss. Browning of white fat may promote weight loss by increasing the visibility to burn calories, of course. And so with that, that's 1101, discussion of the browning of fat. But once again, you need to have your mitochondria at play here. So the phototropin is a fertilized raw egg. It's life alias, it's freeze dried, and it has 10 patents on it, and it's been shown to increase protein synthesis, decrease protein breakdown, and help reduce myostatin levels. And so myostatin is important therapeutic target because it's involved in several disorders, including diabetes, so your diabetic and metabolic syndrome, people, individuals have higher myostatin levels most often. And various clinical trials using myostatin neutralizing compounds and antibodies have been shown to improve muscle homeostasis and metabolic disease, and myostatin works as a negative regulator of muscle growth, so the higher the myostatin, the less muscle growth. So you want to inhibit the myostatin to a healthier normal level and normal levels. Let's call it the 1970s body type, or the Italian beach type, that still persists to this day, whereas we of course, see so much obesity and my understanding and proteins levels are increasing skeletal muscle or plasma so obese in some resistant individuals, whereas the decrease of myostatin improves insulin sensitivity and reduces obesity. So much like the elderberry six ounces a day, why not use food as our medicine? And eggs are food. And so if we think about the pharmaceuticals and things which we can do, yeah, they're there. And if we're not doing the natural things and natural things aren't working, yes, thank goodness we have our prescription pads. I got mine. I have my DEA number. I flex it when I need to flex it, but I try to avoid it when I don't need to. Because with every great and powerful bio pelvic intervention comes, of course, a potential ripple of side effects, so maybe some elderberry and some myostatin ambition with raw fertilized egg. So the studies on the peer review literature of the phototropin are as such, and I'm just going to be more than glad to send these to you. They're also available on the last slide. There will be a link to all the science, but the research is quite compelling. Myostatin reduces protein synthesis. Okay, so we want to inhibit the myostatin it rises with age. Well, welcome to age related sarcopenia. And so the breaking of the dysfunction of myostatin cycle is very, very important. So instead of younger middle age and older men. Certain myostatin levels increase with age. That's a known fact this. They also indicate that myostatin levels are the highest and physically frail older women, and that the higher the skill, bone, muscle mass, the lower the myostatin levels. So let's get in shape, easier said than done, especially if you have an elevator myostatin, but if you can take a product like the active ingredient for Detroit, along with all the other things we as individual providers might recommend for them, might we actually help them break out of that sticky cycle of where they're at? Researcher reported in the Journal of gerontology, myostatin inhibition provides a promising means to attenuate or reverse skeletal muscle loss, the context of sarcopenia as well as cachexia disease associated muscle loss, and to enhance skeletal muscle regeneration the context of congenital diseases such as muscular dystrophy and injury. I'm right now working with a group of 5900

Speaker 1  55:40
individuals with Duchenne and Becker's muscular dystrophy. It's a social media page trying to get them to apply this in their potential complex medical interventions to help improve outcomes for those field suffering. I'm worked with a little boy, which is now 17. He has Duchenne, and he has not done this chains, muscular dystrophy Protocol, or steroids and all of these things that gluco steroids, pregnancy and whatnot. He's got o natural on mitochondrial support muscle protocol that we've put him on. And yet he finally got wheelchair bound and age of 16, he has a chair that lets him stand do all this, but he started losing quality of life because he needed people to help him potty and also to shower. So we put him on the fordotropin product, and he's actually able to he regained the ability to do those things by himself. And when people that I knew the family would come by on the rare occasion, they noticed it was more tone and fit, unless my word scrawny looking, so it's kind of interesting. Once again, small print, individual results will vary. But if it's merely giving a fertilized raw egg product, that's like, wow. Worst things could happen unless you have an egg allergy, then of course, we have a bigger problem. Bigger problem. So the effects of phototropin supplementation on body composition. In a human trial of 37 resistance trained college athletes, main body mass significantly increased in patients given photo and then we see that they were either given 6.6 grams or 19.8 grams, those with a higher amount experienced greater improvement. But both groups experienced improvement, and they found the phototrophic decreased markers of protein breakdown, and the group that was taking both of them actually a significant increase of muscle thickness. Then we see the human clinical study investigation of 21 days on phototropic supplementation. So in nearly 21 days of taking this egg protein, the randomized placebo controlled double blind study of 20 participants found that the average protein synthesis of phototropic increased by 18% compared to the placebo interesting, and to say, indicated that photo open has been has a potential managing age related muscle start opinion for me, when I look at a fact like this, I'm thinking, Okay, well, all my patients that have chosen without me to do GLP one, because that's necessarily I don't feel that I want to be involved In. But I'm saying at least do things that are going to help maintain your lean body mass, so that you're strong and lean on the way out, opposed to lean in terms of weight on the scale, but lean also on muscle. I want that active metabolic tissue. So the research is that stimulating muscle protein synthesis and alloy patients could have potential of increase in body mass. And that's obviously another duh. So then they looked at dogs, and these happen to be dogs of veterinarians. So these veterinarians said, Okay, well, my dogs aren't going for the equivalent of a knee replacement, and I want to see what happens on phototropin. And so in contrast, the placebo treated group experience an increase of myostatin levels. Remember, myostatin levels increase with disuse syndrome, hip replacement, knee replacement, immobilization, sedentary lifestyle, the dogs given for the drop and also experiencing no change in Thia circumference. Okay, so there was no change while the placebo group had a reduction in thigh circumference. So the dogs went in and they maintained their thigh circumference. Their dogs had didn't get a four drop in atrophy. We've all had disuse syndrome. I just got over a frozen shoulder, which I was dealing for seven months, and boy, was I losing size in my arm and strength, once again, disuse syndrome. What happens when we have it in the sling? Disuse syndrome. So we also look at the decrease of myostatin, and the concept of, if we lessen myostatin levels, we can do with phototropin, there's small molecules and peptides and drugs. Are looking at exercise. Resistance training is also shown to reduce myostatin. Now, can you imagine some resistance training with somebody with phototropin? Once again, I'm an independent educator. I have no dog in the fight or a horse in the race, but ensuring quality protein intake, of course, makes sense. The phototropic is not particularly high in protein. So it's not well, that's how it's working. It's high on proteins. No, not at all. But they also found that particularly leucine, in addition to the four tropic, can also be beneficial. And so when we see the myostatin levels increase with age, and we see all these changes occurring with the lack of activity, once again, thinking of the rip of the Sphinx, and we've seen all these changes occurring, but we're also seeing an increase in myostatin the moment we get older, heavier and or more inactive. And so what's interesting here with the aging process, we see that sarcopenia decreased mass, of course, but then we see here mitochondrial DNA mutations, lower number mitochondria, and we also see impaired biogenesis and mitobiogenesis, so creation of mitochondria. So this is where you think P, Q, Q, pyroquinone, quinone, along with your co Q, 10 and all these other favorite things that we like to do, I will point out also, in another lecture that I give, there's a list of drugs that poison the mitochondria. Propo falls one of them, general anesthesia is another one. Lidocaine. Going to the dentist a little too often to make friends and influence people and drove publicly could also cause problems. And so there's all these meds that we're potentially prescribing or taking, or procedures we're having, and we're like my candles, not as bright and as light as it used to be. Maybe I need new batteries once again. That's the mitochondria. So the phototropin, once again, not going to speak a whole lot about it. It's just an egg based product, and it looks like that coming out of cancer. I've got some here for myself and out of the California Berkeley University. Dr William Evans, you might be familiar. He goes around the country lecturing on sarcopenia and muscle mass, and he was a principal on this study at the time, there was eight US patents. It's increased now to 10 and six successful clinical trials, there's two or three more happy I'm hoping what occurs from our little unofficial Duchenne Becker project is that we see what kind of dosing is optimal, and then we can do a larger muscular dystrophy component to things as well. And so anabolic resistance, not just take too much time on this topic, but once again, we look at high anabolic resistance, obesity, sedentary lifestyle, and we want to lower that. So we want to lower that anabolic resistance. And so a healthy person that's aging is okay on anabolic resistance. A heavier person that's aging, not so much. And this is 2021 article. So once again, allowing the muscles themselves to take up the amino acids that maintain the optimal homeostasis, opposed to a marginal homeostasis. And we see here also controlling myostatin and the involvement of all these lovely little hormones, some of which, which we measure, we know decreased testosterone, male and female alike. That's why, in my clinical practice at that this is when I do flex my prescription pad, doing some bioidentical hormone for females. Also often will include a little testosterone and looking at the oxytocin levels. Also interesting, because that's used a lot with autism and people, psychosocial, separation, anxiety and so forth. Some nasal spray oxytocin can be good. And so we're looking here at, you know, how do we help these hormonal sides of things, so that, knowing that the lower your muscle mass, the greater your mortality, all things being equal, so uh, so there's a catch 22 skeletal muscle and sensitivity to normal stimulatory effects of amino acids. That's anabolic resistance. So I throw in some anabolic, you know, hormones, but we're talking about analog resistance that you just can't take up the amino acids like we could, which becomes a catch 22 and then we see the skeletal muscle influence on homeostasis. It's like, wow, it's talking to everything. So if I keep on keeping my biceps and my hamstrings, my quads strong, like wow, and my glutes strong, it's like, it's going to have a positive impact on, potentially, everything. So that's a strong consideration for why we want to stay strong, plus we want to stay independent as well. But it has a ripple effect, a domino effect, throughout our body. And they did a study way back in 1953 and yes, I found a double decker bus in the United Kingdom from 1953 because that's when these two Lancet articles were published, so I said, I gotta find a 1953 box. So I did. Hippocrates guided his theory of balance tumors, advocating that absolutely every young or old person needs exercise, not too much. And so a study in 1953 looked at the drivers of public trolleys in London, and they had twice as much coronary art syndrome than those that were the conductors, because the conductors had to walk around and collect the tickets. The driver sat there all day,

Speaker 1  1:05:34
interesting. So way back in 1953 they're like, Ah, why? Why are these drivers all kicking the bucket and our conductors are out living them. Is that kind of interesting? I thought was interesting, putting our muscles to work and once again, asking the question of, how do we help with that sarcopenia? How do we help with that process? Of course, it takes ATP, takes absorption through our GI tract. So let's say a person's taking a proton pump inhibitor or an h2 antagonist, something to block that acid, which is so terrible for the human body, tongue in cheek there. But so now all of a sudden, we have to do the protons. We have to do the Neptune. They have a ulcer in their stomach, and we're trying to help the heat heal the process and but they stay on our long term. Are they going to absorb their proteins as well? No. So once again, an independent risk factor for our patients, like when they come to us. Well, how did they get to this broken state? That's a question we ask all the time. So how did you get here? Well, what drugs have you been on? And I asked the same question about, what drugs have you been on that are on my mitochondrial poisoning list, because that's important as well. So if I was to be lazy, which at times I am, I choose to be this fellow. He doesn't have to go get the ice from the convenience store. He doesn't have to plug in his ice bath. He just sits there. And clearly, as you can see, he's also grounded lots of mud on those feet. So you got grounding and the ice plunge. And of course, we know that the cold plunge is, of course, helping forth mitogenesis. So of course, we have our skeletal muscle, and once again, I'm gonna make all these slides available because I think they're fun slides. I enjoy putting slide decks together. And it's like, okay, well, look at all these things, and this is what we're doing. And welcome. Want to help with IGF one, and IGF one is low. And in fact, about 50% of my patients are in the mid 50s to 60s. Or IGF one levels are abysmal. And then there have elevated cortisol levels, which, of course, we know are catapulted. And so we are losing the battle on anabolism versus catabolism. And remember, an elevated myostatin decreases irisin. So you want to reduce the myostatin and improve the irisin, which also has anti inflammatory effects of muscle to brain. Again. Gotta love it. And we have the extra kinds, which are basically just myokines, discovered in 2000 that muscle contractions release interleukin six. I used to think interleukin six was just terrible. If there's if I couldn't find on a C reactive protein, I couldn't find it on a sed rate, and there's no positive A and M saying, I bet the interleukin six is causing the problem. That was my mindset for a few years back in the day. And they're finding out extra kinds help release the response for both acute and chronic stress and exert a paracrine and autocrine pathways, and they improve cardiovascular, metabolic, immunological processes. So once again, but how do you get extra kinds? What got exercise? So you got to have the muscle to do it. And so multiple shoot of organs are affected by extra kinds. And so we have the skill of muscles and myokines, or cardio kinds of hepatocytes, the adip accounts from white fat tissue, cytokines from Brown onwards. So Nicole is here to help, and extra kinds have a potential to treat cardiovascular disease, type two diabetes, mellitize this, or mellitus, which we all pronounce, this is my name is Miletus, and obesity and possibly facilitate healthy aging. So my takeaway is a leading accelerator. Muscle Atrophy is reduced. Nerve innervation to target tissues. You got a lower back issue. Don't be surprised if you have neuropathy. You might have about if it is really bad. You have bowel and bladder issues, if you have a mid thoracic issue, you might have a t4 syndrome, as some people like to call it, which can affect cardiovascular performance and rhythm issues. Of course, we have the vagal nerve also playing a role on the parasympathetic, sympathetic side of things, but andropause, menopause, first of all, thyroid dysfunction, growth hormone deficits, all are play here. Inflammation is a role here. And the anabolic resistance, age related suppression of protein synthesis, gotta absorb the Amino once again, if you don't have the aminos in your diet and you're on a restrictive diet, bariatric or GLP one, or any other fad diet out there, because, after all, a diet should be the diet we're on to be well and not a diet, just to lose weight and so poor nutritional status, select medications, gi problems, and, of course, dysbiosis come in. We all know that if a patient has diarrhea and we give them a prescription Med, should we expect that prescription med to work well? Now it's running through our body quicker than not. So the classical pharmacogenetics and pharmacodynamics are not going to manifest because it's very rapid bowel transit time. Likewise, of a person really slow valves. And my record was for a patient on my typical intake form, I asked about gi health regularity, and they put regular. But of course, I still go over the intake pharmacist. So tell me what regular is. Is one once or twice a day. And we had this conversation, and he says it's very regular. I said, Well, can you tell me more? Yeah, I bet every three weeks I have a bowel movement. I wonder why they're feeling pooping. What happens if it dry stool? What happened to all that moisture that's poo? Water kind of makes someone feel poopy. There must be ICD 10 foot for that too. And so this one's a fun bonus. I came across this in preparing this presentation for us today, and they have found a link between tight hamstrings and the myofascial plane and decreased mobility and articulation of the cervical spine. Is that interesting? So effects of hamstring flexibility on cervical range of motion and deep neck flexure endurance in healthy young adults. So if you sit all day long and your hamstrings, okay, hmm, and your neck forward, might that help a person? I feel like their heads on straight. I think that explains most of the world. Most of the world, and I think we just solved the world's problems. Let's work on the hamstrings. Pun intended. I just had to throw that in as a bonus. It's in the literature. So I have a 63 year old woman. I put her on the phototropin She had severe osteoporosis and sarcopenia. She was very underweight, very weak. She got on a ladder, the ladder at her fell on the ground. She shattered the entire right side of her body, her humorous couple, two three ribs, her hip, and they rebuilt her Jamie summer style and Bionic Woman. So they rebuilt her, but she's dealt with severe osteoporosis and in mobility as a result, and her. So we put her on the program. So then we have, of course, along with other protocols, 55 year old pre and post surgical New York repair. He has five boys. He plays soccer. He's a Romanian fellow. He's very much into his European football. In fact, very wealthy guy. So he travels to Russia and other places around the world to watch the World Cup and so forth, but I put them on the photo, drop in pre and post surgically to help with realizing he's going to have a disuse syndrome for a while as he ambles along. 86 year old. This gentleman is a physicist. His wife is a chemist, and they both walk about 10,000 steps a day. In fact, they're a food to chat with, because she says, at the top of the hill, I actually have to bend down with my device to get the elevation credit for doing the hill, because otherwise she wasn't getting the credit for having down a hill. He also, in his case, he's the one that fell. He fell on a slippery pavement in Oregon, and he became very challenged on ambulatory his gate was just totally messed up. And this is a guy that, on a daily basis, would also do 50 flights of stairs in his house, you go up and down the stairs within tension 50 times as part of his exercises, Kin kinesthetic says so and so. We have put him on the for a trope and help him regain his benefits. 35 year old actually happened to be a chiropractor, went on GLP, one not my patient had severe sleep apnea, regained all his weight back and your dieting, but he had lost a lot of his muscle mass as a result of that. So we put him on some phototropic. And then the Duchenne little boy, which is now 17, we put him on phototropic.

Speaker 1  1:14:15
So this is my summary that I've created in my summary of the peer review literature as I see it, um, muscular, energetics and nutritional status. Of course, gotta make sure we got oxygen. We've got apnea. We got problems. And when I was 36 years old, and I decided I was going to get in shape again, if I was only in that shape now, um, but I decided I was going to grab the 20 pound dumbbells from underneath my from underneath my bed, which had a lot of dust on them, and I cranked out 100 reps in each arm. That was lightweight for me at the time. And I went to bed the next morning. I could not stretch out my arm. My bicep was so tight and so painful. And I said, Well, that's interesting. This is before I knew I had sleep apnea, so this is kind of the tell. So I decided, okay, I'm the dean at the nature path University. I'm in charge of the moderate complex Lab. I'm going to go now that I'm getting healthy my one time of lifting weights at a long time, I'm going to have a blood draw. My AST and alt were both in the four hundreds back then. It was h, S, G, P, T, and S, G, o, t, and I thought so the head of the laboratory, she calls me, she was a thespian, that's an actress. And she says, Chris, are you sitting? She was a direct report to me. Okay, what's going on? Trish, she said, No, are you sitting? I says, why? She says, We need to talk about your labs, because we had a modern complex lab, so we just ran the on our machine. She says, You're what? How's How you been feeling, Chris, I was like, why your liver enzymes are she's dropped the ball in the mid four hundreds on both of them. I actually figured, like, what the heck? So I went off, got an internist to have one. Got worked up. Did they try to do LDH, lactate, dehydrogena, ISO enzymes? They miss, grew it twice so they didn't freeze it. And I'm thinking, Okay, I'm dying of some terrible liver disease. But lo and behold, nothing came back from that. And the other tests, and went to a hepatologist, and I said, Yeah, me just do some research. Paralympic wheelchair athletes also have elevated liver enzymes from wheelchair racing. But what I did was I had bicep infarcts. I could still not stretch out my arm for two weeks. And back then was briefcase era. So I would have a briefcase I would no matter what I could do, I could not keep that bicep stretched out. So interesting. Once again, oxygen, oxygen, oxygen. Lo and behold, I was diagnosed about six months later with a 65% oxygen level at night. Wonder, why am I? Muscles weren't happy after becoming engorged with the weightlifting. Sorry for the long story, you get the idea. Though we find humor in sometimes our own little journeys. So from a GI perspective, clearly the things we want to improve on the right hand side, from a psychological, physiological stress perspective, adaptogen is very important. And then from a brain neuromuscular perspective, got to get the rest. Gotta make sure our epi norepine acetylcholine. So once again, I do a lot of those kind of tests in my clinical practice. And this little poster I created is, of course, readily available to anybody that wants it. I'm sure it can be improved so successful muscle retention with optimized weight mitigating anabolic resistant by hemia myostatin. But also it's been shown that for Detroit, enhances healthy m4 levels in skeletal muscle, consuming sufficient calories to prevent the increase of t3 to reverse t3 conversion. And that's this, you thyroid six syndrome, and then we have sufficient protein and essential amino acids, mitochondrial in A, D, in R. I'm a fan of in our from our last presentation. I know there's various thoughts on that, to Q, 10, P, Q, or square for all exercise steps and resistance training. I tell my patients, get an app on their phone and track their steps. And I paid 29 cents a day, TMI, to have my phone guilt me on my successes and failures, on getting my steps. It stopped harassing me. It's at 7400 steps. I wasn't doing 7400 steps, enough. So now, just as luck man, 7400 steps and hasn't caused me to go higher on my steps. Detoxification, to support the liberation of that soluble tox is any single thing about losing weight, you got to support phase one, phase two and phase three detox. It's another little chart I've created. More than glad to share it with you. It speaks to the nutrients necessary for phase one and phase two and phase three, urinary and fecal elimination, and then, of course, quality and quantity of life. Rule out sleep apnea. My patients often have high deductibles, and so I send them to a company called loft at l, o, F, T, a.com, I do not work for that company. For $189 they will get a sleep specialist to not only conduct a test at their you know, remotely, they'll send them the kit, and out of Israel, is the technology. They telemetrically get the data, and voila, they can will get a diagnosis of necessary a prescription for an apnea machine or dental device. My big thing for muscle health, minimum, of course, along with CBC, metabolic and all the basics, is really not diabetic. Make sure there's not a diurnal rhythm issue with cortisol too high, too low. Clearly, we know that the human body, on a normal basis, makes about 20 milligrams of hydrocortisone a day. Cortisone to cortisol go back and forth in terms of interchange of the molecules. But if you have a low hydro cortisone level, okay, low cortisol levels entirely gonna have some breakthrough inflammation. You're gonna want to either do an adaptogen or some hydro cortisone to buffer that, DHEA. We know that with the aging process, whether it be lab core quest or whomever we use, they lower the expectation for DHEA to be age adjusted, while you're allowed to be a little bit more broken, or if you're on an elderly cruise ship, they're not going to lower the limbo stick too low, because people aren't going to be able to get underneath the limbal stick. So I like to keep the age a little higher for my patients than the age adjusted range of more broken or more acceptable total free testosterone. And of course, looking at and for females, I'll do also sex horror, binding, bladder limb specifically, and then looking at a thyroid clutter reverse, and then growth hormone, so the phototropin. And my last slide here is, I've been long winded. The proposed mechanism from the six studies is it decreases serum myostatin levels, which is elevated with diabetes, typically elevated with disuse syndrome, elevated with obesity. It helps with protein synthesis. Remember the 21 days, 18% increase in protein synthesis, decreased markers of protein breakdown. This is a good thing. Couple of the references there, but once again, I can provide the references, or once again, I'm an independent contractor, not being paid for this presentation. I just love you folks. You folks do great work, and have the heart of any good society. You folks have it. I mean that sincerely so. But if you want more information, the head strategist for the company, he provide you all the research or I can do at natural med man@hotmail.com, I'm open for questions. I probably won't know the answers, but I'll try my best. You.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:49
Everybody left. My feelings are hurt.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:55
No, we're all here for you.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:59
Anybody? Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:22:00
we're all lifting weights right now. Yeah, cool.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:04
So I have a question here, Chris, how does this compare to fola staten, 344, injectable peptide?

Speaker 1  1:22:11
Yeah, it's, this is a, of course, a food based product lesson. So the side effect of this product is, it's an egg, and if you're literally the egg, that's a problem. Otherwise, it's just a fertilized, raw life freeze fried egg with patents on it. So I can't make a comparison, because one's a drug and one's a food. That would be like, how does the elderberry six ounces? Thank you, doc for sharing that. I'm going to tell a lot of people that. So thank you for imparting that. How does that compare to Metformin or plipazy? Give me the elderberry with also the endocyanides, leptocyanidins and whatnot. So yeah, I go Andrew while on this one. So I would just say, if you can do it naturally without injections. But clearly you can do injections, I mean, but I'm least invasive to most invasive. Recently, I sent a person off for an ultrasound because she was having gastrointestinal discomfort. She's 86 year old Navy vet, and she was in in the brass, so to speak, as she calls it. You know, she was up, up in the ranks back when there was not even something called a glass ceiling. But she was, she broke through all the glass ceilings. She was an officer, and so she's having gi pain, and so I'm saying, well, let's get an ultrasound. Let's get some basics. And says the tech technician sent her home, and says, your doctor ordered the wrong test. Well, I know she's had hernia surgery. I know she has adhesions. I know she had so I was looking for other things too, but thank you for doing my job for me. Clearly, I could have done a CT from the ribs all the way down to the pubic symphysis, as the technician told her she needed, but I said it wouldn't be nice to start without all that radiation. So yeah, I say start, start with the least invasive. And always, we can always feel more complex. So, but that's my touche on that, so I don't have an answer otherwise.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:03
All right, there is a question about it. Are there any peptides you do recommend?

Speaker 1  1:24:09
I like to BCP, 157, I just got acquainted with a company that's providing at a very affordable price, and I don't know whether we're still in our CME or not, but I can provide that information whenever we're not CME or

Bill Clearfield  1:24:27
yet. I'll let you I'll let you know when. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:24:31
so, but yeah, so I like the BCP. I think it's BCP 157, yeah, it's been a long day, and I'm dealing with my trying to arrange the funeral for my sister with the liver cancer stuff.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:45
Okay. Dr Nario, do you have any questions?

Speaker 4  1:24:49
Yes, so one of the things I think they're asking so you mentioned about GOP ones, what is the good way to integrate this to the protocol, like, in terms of maybe frequency, duration.

Speaker 1  1:25:05
So for for my patients are doing the GLP ones, I'm making sure they're taking a good multivitamin. They're supporting their mitochondria. They're doing some sort of amino acid blend. I happen to have one in front of me here, and I'm not doing GLP one, and I also have my phototropin branded item in front of me, just so I so I'm doing on the phototropin my patients will do anywhere From the 11.6 to the 19.8 as their dosage. The little guy that's 108 pounds now, the was a 13 year old at the time, he with a Duchenne muscular dystrophy. We actually have him on three times that dose, because, you know, heroic times, heroic efforts. Because, you know, obviously Duchenne is otherwise fatal condition, so we're kind of going after it. But typically the 19.8 is plenty of us find us that's a scoop and a half per day, along with all the other aminos and so forth, because it is an egg based product is not water soluble, so many most people put it in, like a little Greek yogurt or something. So my wife doesn't like yogurt, so she says, Can I put it in pudding? And she's recovering from her diabetes. I've been in the three hundreds for the longest time. She finally allowed me to intervene as her husband, and so we've got her now with a fasting glucose of about 116 111 in the morning before she was in the three hundreds, and our a 1c was up to 12.8 so she's lost a lot of muscle mass for as a result of that. So we're actually, I've she was not on my list there, but we've implemented this for her as well. So

Speaker 4  1:26:50
you mentioned that that's one of the questions. So it seems like you can mix this with cooling,

Speaker 1  1:26:55
yeah, oh, without a question. Just can't cook it. You cannot cook it. Has to stay in the raw form for the fort er troop in to stay in structurally active, but Yeah, as long as it's cooked, mixed with something that's not cooked, not a problem. Some people put it into protein smoothie.

Speaker 4  1:27:11
Okay, yeah, that's even better then, because, yeah, some questions here are about how you give it interaction side effects to keep an eye out for. Do you have any of those information again? Side effects, you said, Yeah. Side effects, how do you take it? How often?

Speaker 1  1:27:28
Yeah, so, just once a day. Just once a day. Well, I mean, the case of the little boy with the Duchenne, he was doing it three times a day, but everybody else is just doing once a day and 19.8 grams, so which is scoop and a half per day, and just once a day. And as I say, showed within 21 days, there was a tremendous improvement and protein synthesis, and people are noticing the difference physically on their performance and so forth. Now, could you add it to creatine? Could you add it to other things that you might feel are enhancing? Yeah, there's no contraindication. Only contraindication. If you can't tolerate eggs, don't eat it, just like I wouldn't recommend peanut butter to a peanut butter allergy person.

Speaker 4  1:28:09
Oh, so egg allergies definitely off the table. Yeah?

Speaker 1  1:28:13
Allergies off the table. Okay, yeah, otherwise, we're gonna have bigger problems.

Speaker 4  1:28:18
Yeah, because you mentioned about this is interesting about grip strength, right? You mentioned about another supplement company is actually advocating for this. And I'm sure you're familiar with this. It's not, I'm not going to mention the name. It's actually real lifted in a, so that's actually a, yeah, something that they get from pomegranate seeds. And this is something, I guess, metabolized by your microbiome. And this is also there, and I claim to fame about increasing grip strength. The thing with that, though, is they're saying there that it's one of their parameters that they use, but they're using other parameters in terms of muscle strength as well to assess the effectivity of their product. So, but the thing is, with the question of grip strap, how do you test yours? I know they use this rip machine or rip scale. Is that something that you also have used in your clinical practice?

Speaker 1  1:29:17
And so I've presented on pomegranate, and particularly a specific kind of pomegranate which is more readily converted through the GI tract than other pomegranate, because the problem is, there's a healthy enough gi microbiome to convert allergic acid in and Punic lagin specifically has good research showing fairly easy conversion. But as we all know, there's a product out on a marketplace which is purified highly by available your lift in a pre formed which is also used, I use just a dynamometer like this for a group of strengths in my clinical

Speaker 4  1:29:52
practice. Okay, yeah, that, I think I've seen, but there's a digital one also, I think that other

Speaker 1  1:29:58
and that this one's a $300 one, um, the ones on off Amazon, very affordable, 40 or $50 are they comparable, though? Um, yeah. I mean, they have reproducibility. And so then it's all about are using for yourself or use it for part of the Dogged pony truck. And sorry that, yeah. Well, I can tell you, even on this one, which I've used personally before, it's a little harder to grip. It's not quite as user friendly as some of the less expensive ones. This one, even, I will cause my knuckles to pop and crack when gripping it,

Speaker 4  1:30:37
all right, right. Well, that makes you for sure that's going to make your hands like little bigger in no time. One thing here is irisin stimulated by any other way other than exercise.

Speaker 1  1:30:52
Exercise and lowering myostatin levels are the two big ways that I'm aware of and and I'm I'm a women sampler. I know many things about a lot of things, but very little about anything in great depth. I give between 15 and 30 lectures a year where I become a content expert. In passing,

Speaker 2  1:31:19
I'm being honest and humble, trying to be humble.

Speaker 4  1:31:24
Yeah, well, I don't know if a supplements kind of hit the mark. I just remember, but they have a very weak studies also, like taurine, for example, has that ability and even creatine, but I haven't heard much, really in terms of strength and how they are able to increase irisin, not that much so, but

Unknown Speaker  1:31:44
yeah, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:31:46
and so. So the whole concept here is, by using the last sentence here, deletion of myostatin in my slide to secretion or irisin. So we're not wanting to delete myostatin. Otherwise we saw muscle bound. We could never button our shirts. And if you looked up myostatin inhibited animals you're there look like, you know, comic book cartoons, they're just muscle upon muscle upon muscle. So I find the exercise and the phototropin are the ways I've intervened. But once again, that's just an end of one,

Speaker 4  1:32:20
right, right. And you showed also a slide here about, of course, I think you're talking about ice therapy. I mean ice bath therapies and also grounding Are there any, I guess, studies that proves that this actually helps irisin and

Speaker 1  1:32:38
myostatin, the the ice therapy in particular, else, with the Mito biogenesis, I can't speak to that with any level of confidence that I would want to be quoted.

Speaker 4  1:32:51
So it's more of really you're promoting that as an adjunct of therapy, along with, with, with the other things that you mentioned.

Speaker 1  1:32:59
Well, I mean, for me, I love our little mitochondria. It's all about, for me, supporting the mitochondrial pathways, because it's our per real, you know, light bulb, the flashlight turns on, our flashlight turns off. Yeah, also as our somewhat corroded like old batteries in a transistor radio, and we're just trying to improve things.

Speaker 4  1:33:24
Alright? I think, yeah, those are my questions. And I think everybody's ready for you to unveil the product and how we can get a hold of it, those are some of the questions, too. Thank

Bill Clearfield  1:33:33
you doctor, Chris, thank you everybody. Okay, we're good to go. Go ahead, Chris, unveil. Okay, so

Speaker 1  1:33:41
Well, I mean, my unveil is the product is called Myos MD. It also is used in the consumer marketplace. On the patient side of things, is known as yoked. So it's very big into weight loss, weight lifting environment as yoked the the Myos MD. Myos MD is so you'll go to Myos md.com or Myos corp.com you'll be able to access the HCP, healthcare provider channel, product which is super clean and unique from a selling perspective. They also have an affiliate program. They're not network marketing. I mean affiliate. They just like a full script or any place else, if you want to get a piece of action and just have a drop ship, they'll do that. But, yeah, it's called Myos. MD. They also have for us that have fur babies. They did a study with the dogs, which I shared with you. It is stay with cats, as we know that cats have kidney problems often as they get older, and one of the problems whenever we have a patient or patient as a fur fur baby or a patient with kidney problems, we we're told, keep the protein low, keep the protein low. But they actually gave these cats order for open and there was not a negative change in creatine. There's not a negative change on bun or asthma killer Mario filtration rate and prevent the cats from becoming emaciated. So they have one called Myos vet as well, so and they are in some 3000 veterinary hospitals. The Myos, MD, m, y, O, S, M, D, like medical doctor is just HCP driven side of things. But then other companies called yoked and so several y, O, k, e d is y, o, l, K, E, D, and it's on the consumer side and health clubs and whatnot, all the same company with different branches, so much like we have now brand and then we have protocol for Life. You know, there's just so many companies that have two arms or more to their

Speaker 4  1:36:06
systems. So what's in yoke, in the sort of selections of products would be in Myers, MD as well, but for providers, is that correct?

Speaker 1  1:36:14
Yeah, it's the same active ingredient for trope, with the patents, just packaged differently.

Speaker 4  1:36:22
Or so when you say provider only, meaning they have higher doses, if that's what they do for provider only versions, or the

Speaker 1  1:36:31
phototropin is a little the non flavor photons the highest yield, then there's a vanilla one with a little less yield, because they put the vanilla flavor in it. But I personally don't think the phototropin needs a flavor. If I was to say it had a flavor to it, and you're talking to a man that loves his scrambled eggs, but I hate hard rolled eggs. And this does not taste like hard roll I think it tastes more like french toast. If you were to think of a flavor to have a French toast flavor to it with minus the maple syrup, but yeah, that's kind of how it tastes, kind of like french toast. But they do have a vanilla flavor, which has a little lower yield on grams per scoop. So I go for the original personally, and it retails for $99 a canister, which is a month supply of the original. And I think at full sales, I know they're very generous on their discounting, just FYI. And so I would negotiate for very meaningful discounts, well below wholesale personally, but do not say I said that you want 20 or 25% off. I'm sure they'll give it to you. That's in Myos. MD, is that we're saying, Yeah, miles. MD, now, once again, contact Dante. Dante is the head mice for over there, and he'll be the one answering the phone or answering that email. But just say hey, you know, Dr Mills, blah, blah, blah, you know, heard you might have a 20, 25% discount off wholesale, and sure he'll accommodate you, but once again, don't mention me. I don't want to lose my independent consulting gig right now. We will

Unknown Speaker  1:38:12
make sure Mario,

Speaker 1  1:38:15
I think we blame Andrew Wilder, because it sounds like him walking around the campus all day long. At 82 years of age, they'll never catch up with them.

Speaker 4  1:38:24
Oh, now he has Myos MD to use. I'm gonna tell him about it.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:30
But what's getting people?

Speaker 4  1:38:31
He's gonna be breaking hands while he shakes people's hands around

Speaker 1  1:38:35
my whole approach my dad, before he passed away, would always come from the village in Greece, he said, Chris, Chris. And he'd have these herbs that he got through custom somehow or another, clear glass jar of this unlabeled, clear glass jar of that. Like he said, You got to get this tested. I know you're become a millionaire. Just go ahead and put this is what our village people have used for centuries. And if you think about all of our ancestors from around the world, we've counted on natural medicines before there was anything such as the discovery, I think, penicillin in 1929 I mean, we natural medicines have a place. Prescription medicines have their place. But if we can do it with food or a food based product, amen to us. Our Biden knows what to do with it. And I just post, I have some 12,000 LinkedIn folks, and I always try to post something compelling that I see from another colleague, and talk about how they validate a sauerkraut. We've all know about that when, before COVID, there was the bird flu and there was this and that, and they said between Kimchi and sauerkraut. And they just did another study showing the benefits of fermented cabbage. It says, Yeah, our ancestors knew that before modern medicine. I got a lot of lot of positive impressions on them, because it's true. We all survived well before the modern construct. And Modern medicine has saved many of my family members. So thank goodness for it. But if we can avoid it, that's called proactive medicine. When we need it, it's called reactive medicine. And or some seriously dumb luck, see how deep a philosopher I am. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:09
okay, first, there's a couple of folks asked if they could get the slides. Is that okay? Or is that? Oh, of course, I

Speaker 1  1:40:15
will send them over to you, Doc, and you can send them. I'll also send you before evenings out a couple of my, my liver graphic and my, my perception of things, the basics for muscle. So I'll send all that over to you this evening. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:33
usually what I do is I we have put it on our website, aos, rd.org, or I have my own name on the on the YouTube channel. It's Clearfield network.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:43
Once I send it to you, you're welcome to do whatever.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:47
Yeah, so we usually put it on there, and then anybody can can look at it. That's right.

Speaker 4  1:40:51
Here's a good question for you. How do you monitor myostatin levels in patients on 40 Tropin again, for clinical, basically clinical lab testing, I think that's what they're asking for. Do you do any of those along with that?

Speaker 1  1:41:07
I personally don't, because I'm just using a food there is one concern that was raised on one of the studies is that they had all these benefits, but mTOR was increased a little bit in the skeletal muscle, but we know that mTOR is also increased, as I understand it, and skill muscle that's exercising. So it was, it was not a massive rise in mTOR. But first, we know mTOR could drive certain off the logical processes. But I don't see that as clinically relevant topic. But when people ask, from a official perspective, should I take this if I have Texas secondary to tumorigenesis in my body, I would say, of course not, because there's no research, just like I want to tell a pregnant person to do hardly anything, because there's not no research, and there's a higher standard of care for oncological and pregnant people,

Speaker 4  1:41:59
right, right, but yeah, because concern is more liver or kidneys, will it be affected? But yeah,

Speaker 1  1:42:06
and actually, not so much. And there's also a question that was raised previously, well, what about congestive heart failure? Could this cause a muscle boundness? Let's say they already have a left ventricular hypertrophy, or right ventricular thickening, wall thickening. Could there be an issue there? And it's actually been shown that myostatin has much less of an effect within prior CHF or heart patients. It's much more skillful centric, but they've also spoke to the benefit in one of the studies of actually myostatin maybe being beneficial for those patients, but too small sampling and too little research, in my opinion, to be conclusive as to you know, is it beneficial for a CHF patient or heart failure patient? But I would have no problem clinically myself, to put a person that has some heart challenges on this product. I think, if they can improve their skeletal muscle, we've seen some improvement in many other aspects, especially the lower limb and the burden of venous stasis and peripheral resistance. I mean, if we can get things circulating better, I think we'd be better off.

Speaker 4  1:43:17
Oh no, I was just gonna somebody's asking the product that I mentioned about your religion a is Mito pure. So the study that they did was actually 500,000 milligrams for two to four months to actually increase that drift strength and Mito pure is this basically out there, uberly expensive, though, but I think everybody's on board with this one. All my patients are asking about it,

Speaker 1  1:43:43
yeah, and it's a very popular product, and I'm very familiar with it. I also lectured from a technical perspective on Palmela, which was a beautiful age and rich form of pomegranates from a company called verger sciences, that deal with raw ingredients, and they have a safe showing great conversion. But once again, through your lithium a, I think, is highly bio available, and gets the job done without, you know, honestly, much question at all. So your lithium A is a great consideration.

Speaker 4  1:44:20
Oh, you're saying there's another competitor there for them?

Speaker 1  1:44:24
Well, not so much a competitor. But Palmela, which is a pomegranate extract, is been shown to convert readily from the logic acid. So if you're you're within a and to a degree, you're within B. It's another talk I've given over the years. It was compelling research, compelling research, but I think you're listening a, give me free done one and done much like if we were to think of indole three, carbinol or dim, yes, or surfer fan. For that matter, we can eat a lot of pre surface vegetables, but does our GI tract, have the ability to convert I, 3c into dim question mark. And as we know, the peer review literature on both dim and inval three carbonyl are comparable. They're competing groups saying, No, ours is better. No, no, ours is better. Then we get to Sir for aid and how much for surface vegetables do we have to consume to get sufficient SIR for a fan, for, let's say, oncological purposes, a lot. So I think when we get a pre formed form of some of these things. Now, what was it? Resveratrol? The statistic is, you want a 300 milligrams of trans resveratrol, all you have to do is read 56 bottles of wine a day. So I mean, I think it'd be, I think it's cheaper and probably more conducive to sustainability, probably than take the 300 milligrams of transverse retro, especially from a vocational perspective, than 56 bottles of red wine a day.

Speaker 4  1:45:52
The pomelo product also increases your Lithuania,

Unknown Speaker  1:45:56
but just like

Speaker 4  1:46:00
17 bucks compared to Mito pure. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:46:04
and I'm not, I think might appear has a very good niche. I think I'm really good science. I've reviewed their science just a week and a half ago from an analysis perspective for a project I was doing. So I was impressed. It just once again, price point, so we meet our patients where they're at, right.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:26
Okay, you got some comment about BP 157 where to get it

Unknown Speaker  1:46:35
was that the injectable myostatin product,

Unknown Speaker  1:46:39
no, the BP 157, that you mentioned. Oh,

Speaker 1  1:46:42
yeah, Oingo, O, I N G, O, O, I N G, O, and I'll send the information on that too.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:54
Is it injectable or oral, or about

Speaker 1  1:46:56
500 micrograms, and with some good, really nice clinical trials. So I'll send that information as well. In fact, I could probably, because I know the CEO of the company. I'm not working for the company, I'm sure I can even get a code for you folks to get it and use it for yourselves or whatever. Okay, so I'll do that.

Speaker 4  1:47:19
We get the good stuff from you. Dr, Chris, I mean,

Speaker 1  1:47:22
we're all in Team, Team human. My and you'll always find my favorite hashtag, I use a hashtag as humane humans for humanity. So we're not humane, we're not very good humans, and we're not humane, we're not going to have humanity. So we're all going to be the difference we want to see. So, humane humans for humanity, okay, we all thrive and persevere and convert as many people as possible to healthier people, because healthier people are happier people and will get honked at less while driving when people are happier and healthier. I don't like to get hot yet. As you, as you all tell I have a very odd sense of humor that there we are.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:05
Okay, any other question? There is another question here. Are there any biomarkers to look for, Dr melitis in blood work or saliva or anything?

Speaker 1  1:48:14
Well, I mean, the biomarkers I like to use were here, wherever they were, ah, well, I mean biomarkers, I think I might not be addressing the question directly. Could you do my own staff and marker or something like that? Yes, but what I want to do is I'm looking for these tests as my minimum for supporting growth. Yeah. But right? Yeah, low lying fruit and cortisol, four time cortisol, making sure a person has their apnea. When I see, when I do a lot of work, I do quite a bit of organic acid and environmental pollutant testing, if I see an elevated lactate, they're either a Keto patient, they're APNIC and or they're low in lipoic acid, B vitamins and nicotinamide riboside. But whenever we see elevated lactate, you have to wonder, why are they either keto? Are they diabetic? Clearly, that'd be another kind of keto, non favorable time. Or are they happening? So I find a lot of people just through apnea or through organic acid testing, having no other reason for elevated lactate other than lo and behold, they might be 105 pounds and they have apnea as bad as a 300 pound truck driver, because everything's nasals, passages, tongue, throat, everything's small. So in fact, I diagnosed two women with apnea unrelated to each other. One was 103 one was under a five. The 103 was drug seeking from me, knowing that I have a DA never to come in with her list of benzodiazepine she wanted from me. I want this one for sleep, this one for anxiety. I said, Well, don't you ever wonder why you have those problems? And by the way, she had 50 cats, and her husband worked for Intel and bought her a whole separate house for her cats. So it was like the cats were living with her. They had an adjoining house, 3000 square feet for her 50 cats. But even with 50 cash, just still seeking benzodiazepines for her, we found out that she had severe apnea and that addressed her benzodiazepine deficiency quite nicely. Another woman was the 103 pound woman, and she had terrible gastrointestinal pain, just terrible because her mesentery was becoming hypoxic at night. And so we figured out the apnea piece of things got her a dental appliance, and her gut pain went away because it was no longer long and longer having mesentery hypoxia. And as many of you probably know in the literature now, they're thinking about the mesentery that we all learn about in dissection lab as another separate organ system that might be additional one. So we lost a planet. Little no longer counts, but we might have a new organ, mesenteric. Just trivia,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:06
okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:09
good. Well, the markers are easy enough.

Speaker 1  1:51:12
Well, those are my the low line ones, obviously for my extreme athletes, because I am right here by Nike campus too. And then, of course, we go into organic acid testing. And how are the proteins, carbs and fats going in? Are there elevated fumarate or a low level of isocyte trade or alpha ketoglutarate? So then we tease out some of the tighter biochemistry with an organic acid. And with the organic acid, I always like to do an environmental pollutant panel looking for phthalates, toluene, benzenes, so forth, see about the xenoestrogens that are impacted in male and female on a performance and toxic burden perspective.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:53
Okay, great.

Speaker 1  1:51:55
Well, thank you all. I really, really appreciate it. Thanks. Am I drowning on Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:00
We always enjoy it. Chris, so, okay, so this weekend, coming up, hopefully we'll get to meet with each other. I'm at ammg, I don't know why they did it the same weekend as a forum, but they did so I'll be at the dural national. I'm the first speaker and the last speaker. So the whole hopefully have something interesting to say so, and I know a 4m is also this weekend down at the beach in West Palm. So any who's going to be there? I know Dr halasa, and I think Stefano is going to be there also. And and then dr, dr Burgess, you there still trying to get the West Virginia shindig together? That's the end of May. Dr Quinn, I don't Dr Burgess, is there? Do you have any information on that,

Speaker 7  1:53:03
on the on the conference? Yeah, it seems like attendance. I was shocked at first. I thought when he was doing this, there were gonna be like six of us there, just talking with each other, but he's, he's inviting a bunch of people. There's he's trying to get somebody from Kennedy's group. Dr glavinovich is helping with that. So it's turning out to be a larger thing than than I had anticipated, and he's doing a lot of work on that thing. We talked a little bit about it on Saturday as well. And then we got into a big discussion on bio films, which was which was really good. And of course, the interesting discussion of bio films led Dr Cano to do an entire book and lecture, 24 minute lecture on bio films, which is absolutely phenomenal. He sent it out. I think you got one. You got a copy. Here we and then, while I'm going here, then the final thing is, we actually are splitting up our efforts into smaller committees. So we have an Agricultural Committee and an education committee, and we're taking it from there.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:06
Okay, great. Alright, I see John, John, what do you have to say?

Speaker 8  1:54:11
I have to ask a question, because we only have one week. We're, you know, we're giving limited time. We have about one week or nine days to have the names in of anybody who's going to attend. So that's about enough time to send out one more invite. And I was hoping

Bill Clearfield  1:54:29
every I'm sending them out every third day so I can, like, Okay, send them out every day if you want me to.

Speaker 8  1:54:35
Well, suggestion was that we have a bio with the lecturers and photograph, yeah, well, you think you could, you add that, if we did that,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:49
I'm not sure I have the time to put a, put them all in. I can, you know, so if you got them, you know, send them, you know, send them over. And I can. I can put them in.

Speaker 8  1:55:02
Well, I don't even have them, but I'll try. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:06
all right, so this is usually why we take nine months to a year to prepare one of these, get soirees, get the game, but we'll do what we can.

Speaker 8  1:55:17
This was off the cuff, man, this whole I know we'll do this. Is it? We're doing what we could do, but this is the only time we could have met like this.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:27
Yeah, okay, that's why I said we'll do what we can do. Okay, alright, okay. So anybody who's a ammg at the real national I'll be there. I know Stefan and Dr HAASS are going to be over at the a 4m, anybody else going to be there? Let us know. Make yourself known. We're having a little get together on Saturday night at the Crystal lounge in sunny isle. It's a Russian restaurant. It's really a nice place, really nice, good food, and they have a great music. We've been there before. Dr Campbell took us there. And so anybody wants to join us, if you're in the area, let me know. So we because we have some some reservations. That'll be Saturday night about 738 o'clock. So Okay, so next week, we have the incomparable and very shy Jay Campbell and his and his sidekick Hunter, and they're going to be talking to us about peptide, something they, you know, have no knowledge about. And you know we always enjoy Jay, having, having, not having any type of medical degree. You can pretty much say whatever the heck he wants. And you know, no one's going to going to take a license away from him. So, so we all had to go to medical school, right? And, but he's got a lot of knowledge, you know, he's got a lot of lot of experience. And he's a, he's a, he's a great guy. So, so he'll be on next week and let me see Doctor Quinn. I have you coming up may 27 the week after that, we got Jacqueline Simmons. We she does a hormone type gal. He told

Unknown Speaker  1:57:03
me, July 1,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:08
I have may 27 I also have you on July 1. So if you don't want may 27 I'll put leave you on July 1, which means I need somebody. I need somebody for May 26

Speaker 7  1:57:21
Well, I think originally you asked me if I wanted to do my cannabinoid thing again in May

Bill Clearfield  1:57:29
I have, may I have muscle centric health. That's what I

Speaker 7  1:57:31
have. Oh, yeah, that's I thought that was July 1. I got you, I got

Bill Clearfield  1:57:36
him both days, actually, that's what I'm looking at. Can do a part one and a part two? Yeah?

Speaker 7  1:57:42
Well, that that might be a possibility. Let, let me. Let me see how it goes. I'll get back to you this week.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:47
Alright, I'll have to see if doc, Doctor Nari, was not not getting, bringing in the crowd like the the speakers, like he used to. He's too darn busy with Andrew. Weil, maybe you get Andrew wild to be

Unknown Speaker  1:57:58
a while. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:01
What do you think?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:07
We can't hear you.

Speaker 4  1:58:09
Oh, I'm going to try to convince let's try to push

Unknown Speaker  1:58:15
him on. Okay, so, alright,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:21
okay, everybody, I will get everything out to you when I can. In the weekly emails that we send, we have the information on the the West Virginia conference, and we've sent you some, some others, some other information on it also separately. So if you can make it, it would be great. And like I said, I'm leaving for Miami tomorrow. We'll see you. See you there. If you're there, we'll see you here next week, and anybody else, and any any other last minute words,

Unknown Speaker  1:59:00
okay, going once

Bill Clearfield  1:59:03
Going twice. All right, everybody. Good night. We'll see you next week. Same time same station.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:08
All right, good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai