Unknown Speaker  00:08
District, Johnny B, Billy Boy,

Bill Clearfield  00:39
yeah, You'd miss nothing at a 4m.

Speaker 1  00:42
Oh my god. I also missed a talk Monday night by a loss and Joseph one a 4m. That's it. Wow. You're man, so we're the new guys.

Bill Clearfield  00:58
Yeah, we're, we were the hot ones.

Speaker 1  01:02
Well, that's just, well, that's a little sad for me, because both of us put in a lot of time for a for him, yeah, well, but that's all right. I mean, man, we got a lot of her original, good new stuff to do so and we need to talk sometime. Like to talk to you with Melvin, because seems like he's a permanent fixture.

Bill Clearfield  01:24
But anyway, he's going to he's the, he's the new breed. You know, he's, he's the, he's taken over.

Speaker 1  01:31
Reality is Young Blood is needed, so we need to select them. Hey, I tell you what, our medical school is one of the top, top schools in the world for a long, long time. And I talked to the administration there, and just saying, Mal, the training is good, but the doctors are fantastic. What's going on? And he said, It's not the training, it's the selection process.

Bill Clearfield  01:58
Select us out, right?

Speaker 1  02:01
They wanted people like me, man. They wanted intelligent, far out, people who could accept better standards, structure, function, osteopathic, herbal nutrition, acupuncture. We had the most the top cranialists were there too in West Virginia. And you know,

Bill Clearfield  02:22
you wouldn't think they'd be in West Virginia, Would would you?

Speaker 1  02:26
Yeah, a lot of people hide in West Virginia. We come from DC, but, you know, we've done it all, New York, DC, but we hide in West Virginia. The only problem is, they got nice highways coming in.

Bill Clearfield  02:39
Now, it's getting too easy to get there, is that, that's what you're telling me.

Speaker 1  02:45
Yeah, it's easy as heck. It's another world. You really had to struggle and go four or five hours to even get to the university to even make it there. Man. So it's a weird state, and it was all, you know, trees and coal. We had enough coal for the whole world for 200 years and and that could have been liquefied. So you got politics going on. Rockefellers owned it. They were the governor. They were the Senator. So we had a lot of poor people bill, really, really, you know, poor Appalachia, John Kennedy, shit. So that's what I was used to really poor people, so they started a medical school for poor people, and that's how I wound up in this scene. To me, it was a gift from God osteopathy, after living with hell and bullshit and craziness, osteopathy was beautiful. Anyway. Like to talk to you about John blavinovich. You know him?

Bill Clearfield  03:42
Yeah, I know everybody's been calling me, but I have been so crazy I haven't been able to get anything done.

Speaker 1  03:47
Well, here's something between you and me. Maybe we could talk about an East Coast, West Coast thing, if you want, and make it however you want.

Bill Clearfield  03:57
Well, we have, we actually have an offer for next, for the end of May to do another conference at the it's called ranchera here, which is like a really fancy one of the one of the participants is a member there. It's a big, fancy Country Club.

Speaker 1  04:14
Great, great. So good, good.

Bill Clearfield  04:17
The room was actually cheaper than the hotel. Questions.

Speaker 1  04:23
Well, John levinovich, I'm sure he's maybe mentioned his sister in law, Dr Wei Ling, acupuncture, homeopathy, south. So what we could do, if you guys would be willing, because I'd be willing, because I believe in acupuncture and homeopathy, right? If we want to have a wailing day here, you know, maybe a little longer, that would be fine. And we could introduce South American stuff here, you know, because Mexico is a place that was doing the neural therapy with my guys, the guy that trained me, they were also there. Man, there was more interest in Mexico in pain and neural therapy and some of the research than in the whole United States. We had See, we had seating in Toronto in a really advanced meeting with the top publisher, acupuncturist, homeopath and neural therapists in Germany, top guys, and they got a haul for 5000 people in Toronto. And we had two doctors from the United States show up. Then the guys went on, went on to get the, you know, Nobel Prize. But there wasn't much interest bill, and now there seems to be an interest and a bunch of things.

Bill Clearfield  05:52
Okay, I'm trying to get, trying to find our our speaker. I maybe I might not have, might not have sent her the link, so Dr Nario and dr, dr Peterson, could you let folks in? I'm going to try and find our speaker.

Speaker 2  06:15
Okay, okay. Did you get a give a review of, oh, a for m, for everyone.

Bill Clearfield  06:25
You want me to give the review?

Speaker 2  06:26
No, well, I thought you already discussed it with him.

Bill Clearfield  06:31
Quite frankly, I wasn't all that impressed. You want me to what do you want me to say? I mean, some

Speaker 2  06:36
of the your, your personal experience, I'll tell them mine.

Bill Clearfield  06:41
So my, my personal experience, was that, I mean, it was bigger than before. I heard there were 8000 people there. You know, there were way more vendors than before. I mean, everybody's selling you something, and if you don't, if you don't buy their thing, then you know, you've ruined your life.

Speaker 3  06:59
900 vendors. 900 vendors, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  07:04
it was one of them, right? The only, the only good one. There was Quicksilver, right? That's right. College and college pharmacy, we, you know, we got to throw a

Unknown Speaker  07:13
you got to tell a bone.

Bill Clearfield  07:15
You got to throw dawn a bone,

Speaker 2  07:17
you know. And David Conn. David Connor was there. Well, he wasn't a vendor, though, yeah, but he's, he's exosomes are, I think he's trying to promote that too, but you're right. It's one of the bigger exhibit halls. I think it's the biggest exhibit hall for any a for M event, because they have now covered both hallways. Because before it was only one, and that's why the the events just growing and growing like, it's like a it's like mushrooms growing in in a forest. They're all over the place. And I didn't even get the chance to, I guess, scoop around the exhibit all because you're so huge,

Bill Clearfield  07:58
we're busy. You were, you were, well,

Speaker 2  08:04
but again, one of the one of the bigger attendances that I have seen for a frame, and that's why I'm sure next year, what do you expect? It's just gonna get bigger and bigger. I'm sure Carol had a good dose of that. You probably yapped your your mouth with all the people that you've met.

Speaker 3  08:28
I was so exhausted, but it was really, really worth it, by the way, there was a doctor, I don't have his name at hand, who came up to me. He said, I spoke to you a couple years ago, and you told me to use progesterone and men. And he said, I've been doing it with great results, so I was using it. I didn't, I didn't get those details, but I probably could email him. I know I took the lead from him. Oh, okay, so, so that was pretty cool. I met Dave Asprey. That was cool, although, after kindly shaking my hand and having a few words with me, just

Unknown Speaker  09:10
took off, huh?

Speaker 3  09:11
Yeah, not important enough, so, but that was nice. But Duncan Ross, I listened to his his his speech in the exhibit hall, they're competing for an X PRIZE.

Bill Clearfield  09:29
What's an X PRIZE? What's next price?

Speaker 3  09:31
So somebody's contributed all these Mega Millions of dollars, and you can apply to receive the X Prize, and you get, get all these millions, and you have to have some project that serves all of humanity.

Bill Clearfield  09:46
And there's, does this? Does this count? What we do every week? Yeah, you

Speaker 3  09:51
would think I was thinking about, I was wondering if I could make progesterone for everybody the project.

Unknown Speaker  09:59
No. Bad idea.

Bill Clearfield  10:00
You know, you're turning into Dr Platt.

Unknown Speaker  10:05
That's a great idea.

Speaker 3  10:07
Yeah, yeah. So it's millions and millions of dollars, and they, they're semi finalists, and and there's 42 and they'll pick 10 to fund. And so basically, with his photo, they're using exosomes with photo modulation. And that, did you hear Shelby Jordan speak

Speaker 2  10:36
about neurology? Right? What's that neurologist? He's the neurologist,

Speaker 3  10:42
yeah, from Santa Monica, yeah, so that he's partnered with Duncan Ross on this project.

Speaker 2  10:49
Yeah, he does a lot of integrative neurology work. Yeah, I know of him ever since, yeah, but even for us, in the modules I was teaching 150 students, the highest ever in a module for for the fellows.

Bill Clearfield  11:07
Yeah, sent you again, in case you didn't have it. Oh, all right. Dr Gersh, called she's running. Was running a little late with patients, so she'll be on on in a few minutes. So, Dr Naria, why don't you give us your tip of the week?

Speaker 2  11:24
All right, sounds good. Let's break it down. Dr Gersh is coming up next, right? Yeah. Okay. So welcome everyone. So we're again, talking about a compound here that keeps coming up in different places. And lately it came from our my educational platform in a 4m and during the fellowship lecture that I had my email inbox from our webinar viewers, and whether we like it or not, the gym world our patients live in. So we just had this conversation, I think, with Stefan, and we spoke about this when we were in a frame Doctor Bill within the group. So nandro was mentioned a lot this year, not as about a building drug, but in conversations around bone density, frailty, sarcopenia, anemia and recovery. And if you haven't had a patient ask about it yet, don't worry. Leg day is coming. So nandrellan just to expound it a little bit more for our audience. Here is a 19 North testosterone derived anabolic steroid with strong anabolic and weaker androgenic effects compared to testosterone. Clinically important clarifications here that we need to establish is it is not FDA approved for osteoporosis in the US. It's only approved in Europe, so not here it is, FDA approved for only, only anemia of chronic kidney disease. Dosing is 50 to 100 milligrams every one to two weeks. Even it is not commercially marketed anymore. Deca durabulin was discontinued for business reasons, meaning they ran out of other supplies in the past, and that's why they discontinued. It's not for safety reasons. It's only for commercial reasons that they discontinued it. It is legally available via compounding pharmacies for off label use, and that's how I guess our integrative practitioners are using and getting it internationally. It is still used for osteoporosis, which is why it keeps resurfacing in longevity conversations. Basically, it's FDA approved, just not for the reason everyone at the gym thinks so. Nandron kept popping up around these three themes, one, bone density and frailty. It increases osteoblastic activity and lean mass, both theoretical and aging patients. Older studies showed improved bone mineral density and post menopausal women, which is why it remains approved for osteoporosis in parts of Europe and OCEANA. Again, dosing 500 to one, I'm sorry, 50 to 100 milligrams I am every three to four weeks. So it's so far apart from each other. So this is actually cited from read at Al 1994 British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology. And then another one, sarcopenia and cachexia and chronic illness, aging and renal disease, dandelion has demonstrated increase in lean body mass and strength at low therapeutic doses. Johansson et al, 1999 Journal of American society, of nephrology. And lastly, joint pain and recovery. Small clinical observations and mechanistic data suggest collagen synthesis and joint symptom improvement, which explains why it's popular in the gym world and why patients ask about it again. Urban et al, 1995 American Journal of Physiology. So this is isn't about turning patients into body builders. It's about preventing them from becoming fragile humans with extend excellent and extend extents extensible and impressive lab values, uses, again, supported by its anabolic properties, are typically in the low therapeutic doses of 50 to 100 milligrams every three to four weeks for decanoid in the gym world. Unfortunately, here's the uncomfortable truth, many of our patients are already exposed to Angelo and directly or indirectly through the fitness world, online forums and helpful friends with a great deals and terrible medical advice. So the question isn't, should we talk about Mandarin? It's, do we want patients learning about it from Reddit or from us? So because Reddit has confidence and not credentials, we should be obviously from us, bodybuilders are not using 50 milligrams monthly. They're using 200 to 600 milligrams per week, and stacked with testosterone, zero labs, zero informed consents, and they show up asking why their HDL are tanking down and their hematocrit off the charts. So performance enhancement in sports, body building and athletes is this is where they use this to increase muscle mass, strength and recovery. And this is banned by organizations like WADA or world anti doping Association, and is the most common reason for its abuse. And they also use it for esthetic purposes, bulking cycles, often stacked with other steroids at doses far exceeding the therapeutic levels or dosing. So clinical takeaways here would be an angel loan. Is not an osteoporosis drug in the US, but it is biologically relevant to aging. Physiologically, it has real anabolic bone and recovery effects of therapeutic doses. It carries real risks, lipid suppressions, virulization, CD, strength, cardiovascular strains, and requires monitoring. And most important of all, our patients are already asking about it, so we need to be in the know. So showing up in a frame in our inboxes in the gym, it belongs in the clinical conversation. Longevity medicine isn't about avoiding uncomfortable topics like this? It's about getting there before your patients, personal trainer does, and that's your tip of the week.

Bill Clearfield  16:50
There you go. Now, is that orally, or is that I am How is it injectable?

Speaker 2  16:54
Only? Injectable. Injectable. Okay, yep. So why I brought this up because we had a case in our module five that there was a bodybuilder using this 400 milligrams every day, and it shut his immune system down. His kidney functions are down. He had massive fluid retention and affected his sexual hormones at the same time.

Bill Clearfield  17:17
So does it affect testosterone levels?

Speaker 2  17:20
It does. So you have to remember, it's actually a small part. Angelone is actually a derivative of testosterone. It's a small part of testosterone, and that's why it's known. It's claimed to fame. Is actually more of the anabolic part of testosterone, and you're not going to be getting the androgenic part of testosterone, like the hair growth, acne or the skin, and that's why the the body good was like it, because it's focused more on bone and muscle development, mostly

Bill Clearfield  17:51
Okay, any effects on estradiol levels.

Speaker 2  17:55
It can again, in higher doses, but you have to remember that that small amount level of testosterone that's attached to it, or it's, it's, it's similarity to it does increase aromatization, but not as as quick when you do injectable or im testosterones.

Bill Clearfield  18:13
So would you do it like in the office, if it's once every three to four weeks, rather than having, you know, writing for a prescription and letting him have it

Speaker 2  18:21
at home. Well, the problem here is, again, when you're this is, again compounds, controlled substance, right? So FDA only approves this here in the US for anemia of chronic kidney disease. So when you're using it off label, sure you can definitely do that. But are you kind of treading water there, maybe, so definitely, you need to give a prescription out to a compounding pharmacy. You don't injection wise people do it at home. You can give it to them. Bodybuilders do it.

Bill Clearfield  18:51
Unfortunately. Is there particular compounding pharmacies you would get this from? Or just, pretty much

Speaker 2  18:59
anyone I know, we're on. CME, right. No, no, we're off. We're not even recording. Oh, we're not seeing me. Yeah, you know, I was asking around. I don't know if our favorite strive has this. That's the one that kind of keep, kept on popping up. So maybe you can ask them if, if you're interested, they have it. They have it. Oh, there

Bill Clearfield  19:24
is that. Where you get it. There's the bootleg guy right there.

Speaker 4  19:27
Yeah, yeah. You can get it from strive. You can get it from Brooksville,

Bill Clearfield  19:32
okay, and they both had big, big booths at the A, 4m, right?

Speaker 4  19:38
Yeah, both there. Unfortunately, I've asked them multiple times, if they can compound it in a lower dose than 200 milligrams per ml, but they can't figure that out. So that dosing there, that's what they do in the studies, that 50 or 100 milligrams every three weeks. But the half life is similar to your testosterone, cyprienate. So it's in real life, it's going to last about six days. The effect that they feel lasts about six days. So if you micro dose it and do a little bit more frequently, I think you can avoid a lot of the side effects. Because if you're giving a guy 50 or 100 milligrams every three weeks, what you're going to do is you're actually going to give him Ed because it actually blocks the DHT receptors in the penis. So that's why they'll get erectile dysfunction, so guys won't be able to tolerate very much of that stuff. I mean, I'm giving them even, like, you know, 20 milligrams, just enough to help their pain in their joints or their back and help them feel stronger and help them, you know, preserve their muscle mass if they're on like a GLP protocol. But we're not even, we're never doing 100 milligrams in an injection. It's a straight way to Ed.

Bill Clearfield  20:45
Okay, all right, so, okay, anybody else, any any comments? Anybody else have any experience with this? Stefan's mom.

Speaker 4  21:01
Stefan, yeah, my mom, yeah, only, only one unit for her a week.

Speaker 2  21:07
So Stefan, that is what that is in milligrams. What's that?

Unknown Speaker  21:13
That's two milligrams.

Unknown Speaker  21:15
Yeah, that's very low dose.

Bill Clearfield  21:17
Stefan's mom is our is our hero.

Speaker 4  21:21
Yeah, she loves it. It has a good libido effect for women. And of course, they will get viralizing side effects. If you do too much of it, you have to be very low dose with that stuff. If any compounding pharmacy can can make it in lower dose, we'd greatly appreciate it.

Bill Clearfield  21:38
Well. It's about 200 milligrams per ml.

Speaker 2  21:43
Yeah, that's what he said, Yeah. So, I mean, so you're using insulin syringe,

Bill Clearfield  21:47
yeah, you do a point two or point three. So, right, so All right, well, Dr Gersh is here, so we're good. Dr Nario, yeah, any comments on your your experience as an instructor at a forum? Yeah, as

Speaker 2  22:08
I said, it's the biggest crowd that I have seen and lectured in in the modules. So it's just going to be keeping on coming, I'm sure. But the great event, hopefully everybody enjoyed it, to everybody who went, enjoyed the exhibits, the lectures, and for sure, there's more to come.

Bill Clearfield  22:26
It's almost too much, you know, I know, overwhelming. It's just, you know, it's hard to concentrate, especially, like, you know, how many did you have in your modules? You know, in a class, 150 Yeah, yeah. So it's almost like a college freshman English class. Yeah.

Speaker 2  22:43
So, yeah. Talk about stage performance. That's stage performance there. But again, as you said, it gets bigger. Maybe you get distracted with all the products you the people who want to talk to you, oh, the show that they have that while you're in the exhibit hall that the raffles are getting more and more. They're just not raffling the cars. They're raffling money as well. So I think they're just making more gimmicks left and right for for everybody to get entertained. That's why don't forget about the education. You go there for the fun, you go there for the dinners, you go there for the socialization. But really what I

Bill Clearfield  23:21
go there, I go there to get samples from Carol Peterson from Quicksilver. That's why.

Speaker 2  23:27
And free ball pens, too. And who? Free pens, free bags?

Bill Clearfield  23:32
Yeah, yeah. Well, if you had come to our conference, you would have gotten a congress of medical excellence 5.0 swag bag. And I don't even know what to call that thing. Let's go. It's a cord. It plugs in your cell phone, you know, recharge a recharger, and it's got got our symbol on it. So I got a few left over.

Unknown Speaker  23:56
So give that as a price during webinar,

Bill Clearfield  23:59
you got that as a prize. We're gonna have to send one to Dr Gersh, since you spoke, spoke for us, even though she wasn't,

Speaker 2  24:04
Oh, she we had her in her conference, so yeah, good stuff that she has,

Bill Clearfield  24:09
I know, all right. Dr Gersh, are you ready?

Unknown Speaker  24:12
I just unmuted, so I guess I should be.

Bill Clearfield  24:16
Let me do the intro here.

Unknown Speaker  24:18
Let me pull up my slide deck

Unknown Speaker  24:20
here. You got your groupies? Dr, Gersh, yes.

Speaker 5  24:23
Well, I love my groupies. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  24:26
Okay, yep. So are you? Are you live streaming through to Instagram? I don't know how to do that, but I know

Speaker 5  24:33
I don't either. But why is this not it says share, oh, now it's like sharing 100 times. Okay, let me make the slide show.

Bill Clearfield  24:47
Okay, okay, you want an interest.

Speaker 2  24:51
You're right. You're my faculty in the I haven't we're probably going to get into your module soon. I mean fellowship of Andrew wild, too.

Speaker 5  25:01
Oh yeah, great, yeah. So you want

Bill Clearfield  25:05
me to go ahead and start. You want, you want an intro? Yeah? Oh yeah, okay, you can do an intro. I should have some, I should have some music, you know, like, like, remember the Tonight Show, you know?

Speaker 5  25:17
Yes, that's true. I remember that. That's that was a great theme, Dr Gersh.

Bill Clearfield  25:22
She received her medical degree at USC School of Medicine. She studied obstetrics and gynecology at Kaiser Hospital in Los Angeles, and she had the creog top resident award, whatever that is, every year, she launched a private practice with a belief in holistic women's health care, you must have been one, an n of one. You must have been

Speaker 5  25:45
I was, I was ahead of the curve. I don't know how that happened.

Bill Clearfield  25:48
From the earliest years, way back before alternative medicine was popular, she included acupuncture, massage and Chinese medicine. 20 years ago, she pursued her interest in holistic healing, and graduated from the fellowship and Integrative Medicine at the University of Arizona, and she was dual sportified, dual sport certified in integrative gynecology. And we're going to learn about assessing vasomotor symptoms, prescribing evidence based menopausal hormone therapy and integrative non hormonal pharmacology, pharmacological options. I'm hoping that you'll touch on the the the breakthrough that you know, estrogen is no longer carcinogenic. You know, according to the FDA and all of the call them harpies that have been on, that have been been lecturing us for the last 20 years and telling us, you know, I've showed mine where I've been called a shaman, a fraud, a huckster and and, And a charlatan, for you know, prescribing bio identical hormones. And, you know, they the same people who I have quotes from them saying that, you know, it's all a bunch of hokum, or now they're all on the bandwagon. They're saying, Oh, now it's okay. So I don't have any comments on that.

Speaker 5  27:16
Well, I will, okay. Spoiler alert, I am very pro

Bill Clearfield  27:22
hormones. I

Speaker 5  27:25
know. So, yes, ditto, 100 times over that hormones don't kill us, you know, they don't give

Bill Clearfield  27:34
us cancer. The other day, I remember I told you, I want to reach through the through the computer screen, and choke some of them. You know this, you go back a year ago or three years ago, and you know they're telling you, everything that we've been teaching for the last 15 years is all a bunch of bunch of hooey, and now they're on board with it.

Speaker 5  27:52
So I know, and it is frustrating to say the least, and I have a long memory, because I was around, you know what? What is historical interest to many who are practicing today is actually my memory. So I was around practicing when the Women's Health Initiative came out in 2002 and the when the, what was called, then the North American menopause society basically endorsed the whole concept of hormones are bad, and you should get off of them, and if you have to use them as a last resort, it was the smallest dose for the shortest time, and now they're a little bit modifying, but not tremendously, but they changed their name, but I don't feel that they've changed their underlying identity. So I dropped out of that organization. I quit. I said, I'm never giving them a penny again and and never will go to their meeting.

Bill Clearfield  28:45
So, you know, you know, they're funded by big pharma, right? You know that

Speaker 5  28:50
I figured, I figured most of them are, but you know, they were also somewhat funded by the people who paid their dues and was not going to give them any money ever again. And they're still kind of slow. I mean, they're still not they just never were champions of women's health and so, and I think that their organization is not the arbiter of anything. I certainly didn't elect them. So I much prefer hanging out with you guys.

Bill Clearfield  29:17
So we much prefer you hang out with us also.

Speaker 5  29:20
And so I want to talk about vasomotor symptoms and talk about what to do with them. And a lot of what spurs this on, even bringing it up, is because of some of the new pharmaceuticals that are out there, and they're really pushing a lot, you know, if you I don't know if drug reps ever come to you, but they are talking a lot about trying to get people to use their pharmaceutical, okay, instead of hormones. So we're going to talk about these things. You saw that by the way these I love color, and although I'm not wearing anything colorful today, I'm wearing little sparkle. But if you ever go to Seattle, they I forget the name of it. Now, some of you remember that it has this beautiful artistic glass from like an artist anyway, so it's not trademark. So I can take pictures. I took pictures of these things, so I'm not breaking any, you know, like I own this photo, so I can use that so I decorate. So anyway, a fundamental that everyone should know is that to be optimally healthy, you know, we're talking about women, but could be anybody. To be optimally healthy, you have to have optimal hormones. It's not like you could just say, Let's take out your thyroid gland and replace it with meditation or even vitamins, or, you know, vegetables, I mean, a hormone has an absolute necessity to be in the body at the right amounts and at the right time and with the right rhythms. And so hormones are not optional for optimal health. So what about vasomotor symptoms? They're like the famous hot flashes, night sweats, that are the, you know, the classic arbiters of you're probably going into menopause and that, those are the symptoms that most doctors now who are prescribing hormones prescribe them for as I'm sure you know, like the menopause society, which I mentioned, used to be the North menopause society, and also the other international menopause organizations, the International menopause society, European menopause society, British menopause society, they're still about hormones for treating and reducing night sweats and hot flashes. They're not about optimization of hormone levels, doses, monitoring levels for optimal healthy longevity. That is not even on their radar. But, you know, I have to say that getting reduced night sweats and hot flashes, still has significant health benefits, but you know, it's not the amount that it takes of estradiol, and you can even use progesterone because, and that's not, don't recommend just using progesterone in menopausal women. But even that and testosterone will reduce hot flashes, even at very small quantities, small doses. But that's not the same as creating growth factors that will grow, bone, rejuvenate, create neuroplasticity, neurogenesis, control the cell cycle and all the other things that estradiol does. It's just not going to happen if you give tiny doses to suppress night sweats and hot flashes. And it's not like there's a small number. This is over the next 2025, years, it's estimated that there'll be a billion women that reach the age of 50. I'm sure many of them are currently living in China, but there's like, lots of the population are going to be affected by what we do, as you know doctors. So what about menopausal vasomotor symptoms? Well, they're incredibly common. It's like, like, 80% at some some people think it's more. It depends on how, how much you count them, if it's like barely there or not there, but it's the vast majority of women will go through menopause, experiencing some degree of hot flashes and night sweats, and they're very, very severe in terms of affecting quality of Life in many, many women, and it can occur with very tiny changes in the core body temperature. And that's what it's all about, trying to maintain. It's essential that the core body temperature, the inside temperature of your body, be held at a very consistent level for all the organs to be working properly. It's not like you can have varying temperatures all over the place, and it can be different amounts. It's really critically important that you maintain a steady, secure, you know, optimal temperature in your core body, and the body works really, really hard to maintain that optimal temperature, and even small swings can the body goes it becomes desperate, so it creates vasodilation, and you get the flushing and the flashing and the sweats. So it's a really, really big deal. There's a funny blue line on here. I don't know why, where that came from. So when these temperature swings are happening. Even with these tiny temperature changes in the core of the body, you get overwhelming heat sensation sweating. I don't know if you've, you know, even men sometimes will be sick and they'll have, you know, these temperature changes, and there's certain viruses or other infectious pathogens and so on can create night like night sweats and hot flashes. So it's not like it's unheard of in men too, but when you have changes in the core body temperature, the body like works over time to try to get it back to a normal temperature for survival. And so these are the areas the upper back, the chest, the head, the neck, that will experience all of this incredible sweating. And the episodes can happen so many times during the day, it's like day and night. They call them night sweats, but they can be all over the time of the 24 hours, and they can last for at any time when they curve that usually they'll be one to five minutes and then followed often by very severe chilling. Does anyone know why I have those blue lines? It's like really weird. They weren't there when I made the slide deck

Speaker 5  35:52
so but hot flashes and night sweats don't live in isolation. They're very disruptive, and they're associated with a lot of mood changes, irritability, anxiety, depression, sleep problems, focus, memory issues. And the number one, the number one symptom that women complain of as they are going into menopause, is actually word recall and memory problems, and they're completely interlinked, and you could also say you can't separate any of this out. Can be related to having problems with sleep, of course, if you're waking up multiple times during the night with horrible sweats, and then often the bed can be literally soaked in sweat, and then you start shivering, and you're like freezing, and you're in this moisture zone and and people are changing their pajamas. They're changing their sheets. I mean, it can be that severe. It really, really can. And these symptoms can begin years before the so called official menopause, which is defined as 12 consecutive months without any bleeding from the vagina. And it can happen years before, and it's often not even recognized or appreciated. That if you think of what's the normal menopausal age, well, it's in the US. It's anywhere from 45 to 55 that's a big decade. When is perimenopause. It starts officially, and of course, there's a lot of variation individually, 10 years before that final year following the last period. So if you have an early or an earlier so it's still called normal, a menopause at 45 or 46 you are a woman in perimenopause, and you could be 35 or 36 now, what if you have an early menopause? So early menopause is 40 just up to 45 premature is before the age of 40, late is after the age of 55 so it's not in it's not an insignificant percentage. It can be like at least 10% of women will have an early menopause. So what if a woman is 43 I can tell you, I was 43 and I attribute my early menopause to the fact that I had a baby at 39 and everything was fine, and then I had a postpartum tubal ligation, and I did not know this myself. We weren't taught this, that even a tubal ligation can impact ovarian function, alter the blood flow and trigger early menopause. So I had a tubal ligation, and I nursed my baby, and then I never got periods back, and I was in menopause. And so there you go. And so luckily, I didn't believe any of the negative hype about hormones, and I went on hormones immediately. Or, I don't know if I would have a brain functioning anymore, but so for women, you got to think of it. I know you guys do, but I'm talking to people. Maybe you're new and didn't know this. If a woman starts saying that I'm having problems, I'm having more anxiety or depression or focus problems, memory problems, sleep problems, and I'm getting sweats, you don't have to have all these. You can have any or all of them. And they're having night sweats or hot flushes or just sweaty or just feeling off, and they're 33 they could be still perimenopause. They could be 35 they could be 38 so, like all these ages could be the onset. So it can happen years before, and things are happening that are hidden as well, involving the cardiovascular system, the brain, the bones and so on, starting years before that official final period. Now what about the symptoms, the vasomotor symptoms of these sweats and the flushing? Well, it can go into the 70s. I actually saw after I made this slide deck, there were reports of women into their 80s who are still having menopausal related night sweats and hot flashes. It's not, it's they're not like, gone in a flash. They can go on for years. And I'll show you. And it's like, the number of women that are not getting treated is gigantic. The majority get no treatment whatsoever. I'm sure you see them. They show up and they can't. You can't believe that they've already seen doctors before they came to you and they did absolutely nothing. So as I mentioned, the core body temperature needs to stay within a very specific range, and it's very, very narrow. And it can oscillate, though, with the daily circadian rhythms. And you probably know this when you have little children, and if they get sick, they tend to get a fever at night. So temperatures do change a little bit with circadian rhythm. Of course, they can be magnified if you have illness, and the body does everything it can to try to maintain that proper core body temperature. It will do anything it can to dissipate heat if the temperature is rising. And as I said before, the maintenance of optimal internal organ function relies on this tight regulation of the core body temperature. And there's a section of the brain in the hypothalamus that's called the thermo regulatory center that helps to regulate the core body temperature. And when you have disruption of it, and you have this problem with disruption in the brain that's due to loss of adequate estradiol, I want to make sure you know that it's loss of adequate estradiol in this in related to in menopause, that causes this tremendous problem with vasomotor symptoms, because the thermo regulatory center in the brain is modulated by estradiol, There are receptors to estradiol throughout the whole brain and many, many receptors in the hypothalamus, and that's where the thermo regulatory center is is located. And so you get to try to regulate the core body temperature. You get these crazy, exaggerated heat loss responses. And it was shown that, interestingly, in the swan study, that they showed that you get higher vasomotor symptom numbers when you have very high FSH levels and low levels of estradiol. So there may be something to do with FSH levels as well. There's still lots to be learned, actually, about this. Now I want to introduce the neurokinens and the neurokinen that has been the neuro what are neurokinens? Anyway? They're they're peptides. You know, you've been probably talking about peptides a million times over, and it's a peptide. So neurokinin B is a specific peptide, and it binds to certain receptors, as these things do, and one receptor is called the neurokinin three receptor, and the neurokinin B can bind to the neurokinin three receptor. Now I'll jump ahead and just tell you that there's a new drug that just got approved. It's not marketed yet, but it just got approved. I can never remember the name, because obviously I'm not prescribing it, but let me just tell you it. It's called the generic name is Ellen zanet elizanotent, and the brand name is going to be Lin kuet. Lin kuet. Okay, so it is a dual neurokinin receptor antagonist for the neurokinin one and three receptor, all of my slides are talking about the three because that's the only drug that's currently actually on the market to deal with this, which is vioza. The generic name is fizzle in a tent, okay, but, but the new one that just got approved, and I'm not really particularly recommending them, but I'll tell you where there might be a use for them, because estradiol is, of course, the gold standard in how to modulate and reduce and control vasomotor symptoms. There's no question that that's the gold standard. But the there is this, these blockers of the neurokinin one and three receptors that neurokinin B, that's the peptide can bind to. So it acts as like a neurotransmitter. You know, peptides are like can be neurotransmitters, and that's what it sort of acts as. And it's found in the hypothalamus, amongst what are called the kindy neurons that's in the hypothalamus. And it binds the neurokinin B binds to these neurokinin receptors. It binds to several, one as number one and another one is number three, and they are the neurokinin three receptors are G protein coupled receptors. You probably heard of that they are expressed on neurons, including the so called kindy neurons that control thermo regulation. And so there's this crucial signaling pathway that's in the hypothalamus that's called the NKb, that's neuro kind and B slash NK three are neurokinin three receptor pathway. And so when you have neurokin and B binding to its receptor, neurokinin three receptor, it triggers certain effects that, of course, are very important for more than one thing. Nothing is about one thing, and it triggers. Among the kispeptin neurons, is the production of rather the kindy neurons, is the production of the another peptide that you may have heard of called the kis peptins. And the kis peptins, which come from the kidney neurons, is very, very also important in reproduction. It's without it's the kispeptins that come from the certain centers in the hypothalamus that trigger the production of the gonadotropin releasing factors that then go to the pituitary that trigger the production of the gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. So this is the centers that control the thermal regulation of the body. Is also related to control of reproduction. So it's like all interconnected and very, very critically important. So I always take say that everyone should know the prime directive of life is the creation of new life. Whether you want to have babies or don't want to have babies, that's a personal choice. Only humans. They're the only species that actually tries to control their reproductive destiny. There's no other animal that I know of that would say, let's not have babies this year. Let's just not mate. I've never heard of that happening in any other animal species, and the temperature thermo regulation is clearly really important for the reproductive processes, because they're located right together, and there's overlap in their peptides, like the kispeptins from the neuro kind, from Brother, from the kidney neurons, and, in fact, neurokin in three receptor regulates the gonadotropin releasing factors. Or here it says H for hormone secretion that causes the release, ultimately, of LH, luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone. FSH, so it's so critical that the core temperature being maintained for proper ovulation, reproduction, implantation, all of this is really critically related to the core body temperature. So these factors, these receptors and these peptides are all completely interconnected in that area, so it's and they're related to regulating body temperature. So body temperature and maintaining that proper core temperature is critically important for proper reproduction to occur.

Speaker 5  48:36
So I've already kind of touched on this, that you have dysregulations in the thermo regulatory system that are in the hypothalamus that you know create this temperature dysregulation in terms of the kindy neurons. And you may have heard of these things. They're involved with the peptides called kispeptins, the neurokinins, like neurokinin B and another group of peptides called dinorphins, okay? And if you have over stimulation because estradiol is not regulating it, then you get the during the menopausal transition, you get dysregulation of your core body temperature. And then, you know, the body does everything it can to try to keep the plot the temperature proper by having less heat, more heat, and it just becomes really wild, and the temperature of the skin is going to be very affected. And when they've done studies looking at blood flow to the skin, it's like all over the place. There's, you can really see changes in blood flow to the skin. It's you have because the temperature of the body is desperately trying to be maintained at that proper core body temperature. So you can have alternating vasodilation or constriction. And it's so it's such a maladaptive way of having temperature homeostasis, because it the body just can't control what's going on in that thermonuclear that thermo regulatory center. And so to try to maintain temperature, it's going to have more flow, less flow. And you see changes all the time in the in the blood flow to the skin, with alternating and variable vasodilation or constriction, and then you can get the the heat and I mentioned, followed by profound chills. So it's very, very challenging. I don't want to go into it and like, beat this to death, because I just want you to really get the takeaway that the hypothalamus is involved in progesterone receptor function and estrogen. I don't really get into progesterone too much, but I'm sure many of you know that when progesterone like Do you remember the days, if you were old enough, when people did basal body temperature thermometers? You remember basal body temperature where they're trying to get basically looking at the core temperature by doing the temp, trying to take the temperature first thing in the morning, before you got up or moved or anything, to see if you were ovulating before. We had all these ovulation kits and more scientific that's the advantage of being older. I lived through basal body temperature thermometers, and they would, people would know that when progesterone after you ovulated and progesterone was produced, you would have this tiny rise in temperature. You know, this is like really little, because progesterone would raise the temperature just that little bit. And it's all regulated through the centers here in the hypothalamus, and that's been well known, that progesterone will raise the temperature just this tiny bit that you could detect on your basal body temperature thermometer and but this is another important takeaway, that the temperature when it's dropping Okay, and it affects the hypothalamus and the temperature, the changes in, I shouldn't say the temperature dropping, sorry. When the ovarian hormone levels are dropping, they will impact the area of the hypothalamus that we're talking about. And it interconnects with the production of other neurotransmitters, serotonin and norepinephrine, which are also involved. It's very complex. So it turns out that there are these downstream effects we have the like the really local, and then there becomes more downstream, and serotonin and norepinephrine are also involved in serotonin, which comes into play when you look at the therapeutic pharmaceuticals that are used to modulate and try to lower the vasomotor symptoms. So what about these other neurotransmitters? Well, estradiol influences serotonin and norepinephrine synthesis and the synaptic binding, the density of the synapses and the neurotransmitter, reuptake and degradation. Estradiol is like a drug. It actually does the same kind of thing like Prozac. Estradiol is actually a reuptake inhibitor for serotonin, and it's also acts on the serotonin receptors to improve their function, and is involved in serotonin production, but also norepinephrine synthesis. So these are really important to know, because estradiol is very critical of all the different aspects of brain health, and these, these neurotransmitters, serotonin, norepinephrine, are also involved in temperature regulation. So it's an estradiol, as I mentioned, is involved in the expression of serotonin and neuro epinephrine, neuro epinephrine receptors, and when you have disruption, when you have low estradiol, you end up having disruption of the production and function of these vital neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin, which then goes downstream to create even more thermo regulatory disruption. That is why you can give SSRI drugs to try to treat hot flashes and night sweats of vasomotor symptoms. And I bet you know that I'm going to have a slide on it, that the SSRI drug, SSRI drugs are used many times for treating hot flashes and night sweats, and also the SNRIs, and we'll talk about that in a moment. So now, there's a few other ways that have been talked about with what could be involved in vasomotor symptoms, which we won't get into too much of but there's other areas in the brain that may be involved as well, including the brain stem, and they've shown that there's some different activation in areas the insular cortex and in the brain stem. So whatever we're talking about, it's probably significantly more complex in how everything, where everything is more complex than what we think. And it's so important that we realize that whatever all this complexity is that estradiol is the master modulator of the entire system.

Speaker 5  55:32
Now, I've actually mentioned quite a bit of this already, so I won't that. Won't get into that. Now we talked a lot about some of the other things that are involved in vital vasomotor symptoms that come like ancillary Well, I mentioned sleep disturbances, I mentioned depression. Now I'm going to tell you a very personal story that I share hardly ever, because I never think that things are about me, but in this case, I really want this to resonate with you. Vasomotor symptoms can be life altering and life disrupting. So here's my personal story that I want to share with you, and why this is so important to me, that you understand the basics of vasomotor symptoms and that this should never be ignored. They should never be ignored. Well, it turns out that my father's mother, so that's my paternal grandmother. When she went through menopause, she had horrific night sweats and hot flashes, the worst kind of vasomotor symptoms ever, and she did not have a history of anxiety or depression, but she became both, both anxious and depressed, and had could not sleep, so she went years so, and we'll talk about it, the incidents, the timeframe, well, I'll just jump ahead. I'll tell you the average woman can have night sweats and hot flashes, vasomotor symptoms for seven to 10 years. And these are not like, like insignificant problems. This is huge, and they're associated with so many other things. So my grandma who I never got to meet, I am named after her. I am named after that grandmother who I never got to meet, she apparently spent years she was already something like seven years straight, having horrible, really horrible, night sweats, hot flashes, sleep disturbance, and there was no treatment at that time. There was nothing that anyone could offer my my father told me that he would put her in the car. They they lived in an apartment building in Brooklyn, in Brooklyn, New York. He would when after like evening came, he would put her in the backseat of the car, and he would drive as fast as he could all over the streets when there's not too much traffic with all the windows open the car to try to help cool her down, because that would be the time, and they bought fans, as many fans as they could. There was no air conditioning, and there was nothing to cool her down. So he would drive for hours with the air blowing on her in the car going as fast as he could to try to help her to feel better. One evening, it turned out that my my father and his youngest brother, he had to his youngest brother were visiting and in the apartment with their parents, the my grandfather and grandmother, and some stupid argument developed that nobody knows what it was anymore, but some stupid argument developed between the younger brother and his mother, my grandmother. And it was just some kind of, really unimportant, but it was an unpleasant argument about something or other, and for no you know, obvious reason, nobody really noticed, she just, you know, said, Excuse me, she got up from the living room, walked into the bedroom, opened the window and jumped out of the window from the fifth story and died. She jumped out the window. My grandmother committed suicide, and she never had a history. She was suffering. My father told me the whole story, the most horrible night sweats, hot flashes for years, no treatment was available. She had an argument, she had developed depression and she she committed suicide. That's how things can really happen. Women have just been suffering for so long. That's why this is one of my missions in life, to help people to understand that. You know, yes, some people have very mild symptoms, but some people have really, really severe and look at the cost. I mean, the cost is humongous for what happens to these women and and it's involved in poor endothelial function. So night sweats and hot flashes are not just well you get wet and your clothes are damp. I mean, you people can't sleep. They have medical problems. They have cognition problems, vascular problems, increases atherosclerosis and increased risk for diabetes. When women, women who have higher incidence of vasomotor symptoms, have a higher risk for developing diabetes. So it's there's plenty of data. This is from the Women's Health Initiative. One of the offshoots showed that women who had the worst hot flashes had the biggest chance of developing Type Two Diabetes. 80s. Now, who's most likely to get terrible vasomotor symptoms? Well, it turns out that African American women are the most likely to have not only the worst vasomotor symptoms, but also the long, longest duration. Can you believe this the median number of years that they suffer with vasomotor symptoms is just over 10 years, and it was something like seven years out of suffering before my grandmother just got so upset she jumped out a window. And it turns out that Chinese and Japanese women have the least amount now, some people think, and it's hard to prove, because it's hard to get a study or something about on this, that they eat a lot of soy, and soy is a very good phytoestrogen, and they start very young in life. And there's actually a study that I don't have in my slides, that was done by the cardiologist, who's a vegan, dr, Neil Bernard, and in his study, he gave women a cup of soybeans to eat every night, and there were, for 12 weeks, women with very significant vasomotor symptoms. And at the end of 12 weeks, the women had dramatically reduced vasomotor symptoms from eating a cup of soybeans every day. So that's probably the secret sauce that keeps the Chinese and Japanese women to be the least likely to have these terrible night sweats and hot flashes. So the mean duration of all women is 7.4 years. That's a lot of years. And, you know, I told you the story, my grandmother was, like, around seven years out, and she was going just like they had just started. And there can be, like I mentioned that they can start years before, years before the actual official menopause, and when premenopausal and early perimenopausal women developed vasomotor symptoms, they tended to last longer. So women who start having these symptoms before they're actually in official menopause, their duration on average, is almost 12 years, with an average after the final menstrual period lasting almost nine and a half years. So I think this is under appreciated, how serious this condition is and how many years it can last. Women who are post menopausal, they're already, you know, haven't had any periods for at least a year, and then they developed at that point, they developed night sweats and hot flashes. They tend to have the shortest duration, which is still almost three and a half years, of suffering with vasomotor symptoms. I mean, come on, this is like absurd, right? By the way, I have no idea why all those little blue lines are on my slide deck anyways. And this is from the swan study, the study of women's health across the nation. And this went over 17 years, and they found like, just like what I was said, and that was from the Women's Health Initiative. Here, from the swan study, they found that factors related to longer duration of vasomotor symptoms was younger the same, younger age at onset, also lower educational level, greater perceived stress and symptom severity. So if women are already in bad shape, like they they found with emotional problems women who have a prior history of any kind of emotional problem, whether it's postpartum depression or PMS or general anxiety disorder, things like that, when they go into perimenopause, their chance of having a clinically significant psychiatric problem goes up 400% but women who've never had A single problem, like my grandmother, their chance goes up 200%

Speaker 5  1:04:45
so it's not, it's not a little little issue here, and the worse they are going in, the worse the vasomotor symptoms, and then they'll have the women who have higher depression or higher levels of anxiety prior to going into menopause, will tend to have worse vasomotor symptoms. What are some other risk factors obesity? So it turns out that obesity is a significant increased risk factor for having severe vasomotor symptoms, and weight loss can definitely help with that. Smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke can also be a problem, with a 60% increased chance of having significant symptoms, and as I mentioned, pre existing mood disorders, childhood abuse. You know, it seems like children of trauma, children who've had problems with any kind of childhood trauma or abuse, their ability, their resilience, is very reduced, and that includes for vasomotor symptoms, and like I mentioned before, lower economic status and educational levels. So let's talk about the pharmaceutical types of therapeutics I already mentioned, SSRIs. So it turns out that you may have heard of the SSRI called paroxetine, that is actually FDA approved for treatment of vasomotor symptoms. So that's kind of interesting, but off label. Pretty much any of the SSRIs are used, and that would include fluoroxetine, you know, that's Prozac and citralopram and S, I never say the generics. So that would be Effexor s, citalopram and sertraline. Okay, so all of them provide basically similar benefits. All of the SSRIs are going to be similar, and the SNRIs as well, actually the loxifene, that's Effexor, and so the other one that I mentioned, that's actually that Lexapro. So I usually I'm still stuck on the branded names, but escavallo plan, that's not quite how you say it. That's Lexapro. So an Effexor, which is an SNRI, is also effective, because now you know that they work through the similar the systems involving these, serotonin and norepinephrine work also in the thermo regulatory centers as well involved with estradiol.

Speaker 5  1:07:35
So what about off label? Off label? Those are on label, off label, or Gabapentin and clonidine. Clonidine is usually pretty much shunned now and not really recommended. Gabapentin is still being used, of quite a bit, and there is supportive data. It's not it's not FDA approved, but there are studies showing support, and it's important to know the non hormonal treatments, because there can be, I mean, you know, I'm like estradiol gold standard. Estradiol gold standard. But there are some cases where you have contraindications, whether they're right or wrong. Generally speaking, it would not be given. You wouldn't be giving estradiol to a woman who was just diagnosed with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer or endometrial adenocarcinoma. So usually, you know you're not going to be doing that. And then there are some women that probably or really should be able to be on estradiol, but they do have contraindications in the conventional medical world, and people may not really wish to go sort of outside those boundaries, and they're not comfortable giving it to a woman who has maybe homozygous for a fact of five light and to me, that's not a contraindication. But other people would say that it is women who've had a prior pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis, which I also don't really feel is a contraindication, but many people too, and that officially they are listed as absolute contraindications. So I'm not going to tell you to go against absolute contraindications. I'm just adding my own little off, you know, off the beaten path opinion. Okay, so I want to make it very clear what's my opinion versus what is a standard recommendation. So for the issues that are considered standard recommendations, never as an absolute contraindication. Do not give estradiol, do not give the hormones, then you need to know about these other treatments that are available for your patients, because I never want you to ever see a patient who has vasomotor symptoms and they leave your office untreated. I know that would never happen, but I it happens to women. I see them every day, and I'm sure you do too. So it shouldn't seems like it can't happen, yet it does happen. So just as a quick recap, and then we're going to talk about integrative approaches. We don't really know everything about what's going on. It is very complicated, but it definitely involves the neurons that CO Express for the pep the peptides, the kispeptins, neurokinin bees and the dynorphins known as the kindy neurons and estradiol, the gold standard, is what innervates the thermoregulatory center in the hypothalamus and controls these peptides. So you may you, I'm sure you've all heard of peptides, and you may think, Well, what is the trigger to the production of peptides anyway, like, what causes peptides to be made? Like I mentioned, kispeptin, these, these peptides that are from the kindy neurons that are involved in reproduction and the thermo regulatory center of the of the hypothalamus, kiss peptin, neurokin and B dinorfin. So what triggers their production in the first place. Well, it actually is nutrients for kiss peptins. So that's why women who are anorexic will tend not to have menstrual cycles. Because the this the centers in the hypothalamus that have certain clusters of neurons they have, they have centers that are sensors for nutrients, and those nutritional centers of scent, that sense nutrition status, will help to produce proper kiss peptin production in the proper way to have cycles and to have reproduction, in addition light and dark. So that's why circadian rhythm and having living in the same time zone and going to bed at the right time is really important for women to have proper temperature regulation, proper reproduction, and estradiol is really critical. Estradiol is the modulator of all of these peptides being produced. So it's really important to realize the incredible role of estradiol in the production and regulation modulation of these critical peptides in the brain that are involved in both thermal regulatory functions and reproductive functions, and that they all interconnect, because it appears that having proper regulation of the thermoregulatory zone is critically important for effective and optimal reproduction, and even though the mechanism is not completely clear, when you have a decline in estrogen production with menopause and perimenopause, then you have an alteration, a dysregulation of the peptide neurokinin B signaling involving the peptide neurons in the thermoregulatory zone, and you get these crazy hot flashes as the body the brain is desperately trying to maintain proper core temperature in the body, and you get these crazy changes in, like I mentioned, you get constriction and dilation of vessels alternating in how the blood flow to the skin is happening and so on. And by antagonizing or blocking the neurokin and B of the kindy neurons in the hypothalamus, you can dampen the signaling that is responsible for this craziness that happens. And this drug, vioza, fenzolinitant, and the new one that's coming out is can can help. And the studies with fenzolinitant, vioza, the brand name, is that they are not. They're not as good, high they don't have direct studies, actually, of course, they don't have a direct study comparing these drugs to estradiol. They wouldn't do that, but if you look at it, estradiol is definitely better. I mean, way better. The drug can reduce the night sweats and hot flashes about 50% it's just, it's not as good. It's not the real, not the right thing. So if we look at the drug vioza, so it's a non hormonal, selective neurokinin three receptor antagonist, so it's blocking that receptor, the three. And the new drug, as I mentioned, is going, just got approved, not yet on the market, is going to be a one and a three blocker of the receptor. Now, I don't know for sure what the current price is of vioza, but the last I heard, it was not being covered by any insurances, unless you did all kinds of jumping through hoops of fire to do prior authorizations. And without that, the the general price was like 600 a month, so not very cheap. And it reduced this. It took weeks and weeks to reduce the symptoms. It didn't happen like they said, that there's some some benefit in a week. But honestly, when you look at the data, it took quite, quite a few weeks to get really significant benefit. So they do, of course, did a study, and then the study, it said that their conclusion was that this drug, fisol in attend provides a meaningful clinical benefit for women with moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause. And so this was a lot of hoopla that came out with this drug. And I'm not saying it has no place, but there are some issues with it. So in terms of the this is their own from their study and their conclusions, you know, sponsored by the drug maker, that they said that in that it was similar to estrogen. But when I looked at the data, I really, I mean, and you use estrogen, to me, this is estrogen is dramatically better. Plus, you would never use a drug like this unless you could absolutely not use estrogen, because estrogen is so much better. And it's really important to know that estrogen affects organ systems in all over the body. Only estradiol. When you give estradiol, do you have decrease in all of the bad things. Decrease in dementia, osteoporosis, decrease in cardiovascular problems. You know, all the different things, joint issues. This drug only works in this one place with this one peptide receptor blocking. It's, it's, it's not really working that one place. I shouldn't say that it's blocking that receptor everywhere in the body, which can lead to some serious consequences, which I'll go over in a minute. But it's not having impact on estrogen receptors anywhere at all. It's just working on this one neurokin and B receptor, which as an antagonist, which is the receptor three. And it's only working that one, one peptide. It's blocking that one peptide. So this is kind of crazy. It's not doing anything for any other organ system in the body. It's not doing anything that's going to prevent all the bad things that we associate with aging. So what's the problem? Well, we know that peptides are not doing one thing in one place of the body. Peptides are all over the place, and they do different things in different parts of the body, you have different levels of different peptides, even in the same organ like in the brain, you can have one peptide like oxytocin, could be in very different amounts in different sections of the brain simultaneously, while having totally different levels elsewhere in the body and doing different functions in different parts of the body. Well, the same thing with the neurokinen peptides. So it works in the liver as well. So unfortunately, if you block this peptide receptor in the liver, you can have serious liver injury, and you can't control it. You can't say only block in the thermo regulatory center of the hypothalamus doesn't work that way. When you give the drug, it goes everywhere. And in the liver, it can, when you block that receptor, you can have serious liver injury. So now they they have a warning. The FDA issued a warning for the drug, and they have, you have to, it's now required before you prescribe the drug, to check the liver enzymes, and then you have to check it every month for the first three months, and then at six months and nine months, you know, and thereafter you know, as they say, as indicated. But so you have to tell patients that if I give you this drug, I might really harm your liver. So livers are not optional, so that's why this is not my favorite. I would rather if I had to use a drug because I couldn't give estradiol, I would personally start with an SSRI or an SNRI, that's where I would start. And then I would probably go to Gabapentin before I would go here to this drug. But I'm going to tell you there's some supplements that, honestly, I would use first which one of which I actually developed, but I'll go over that. So the gold standard is hormone therapy, okay? And I know you all know that, and we started before I talked, you know, having a little love fest about hormones, because we love them so much, and they are the most effective agent, of course, and it's estradiol that will maintain the optimal function of every organ system, including the hypothalamus, the brain and the thermo regulatory centers, and it maintains the proper neurotransmitters neuromodulation so that the synapses are working properly and that you don't have to have The crazy night sweats and hot flashes to regulate temperature. Now, what about some natural what other things can you do? I also, I already mentioned soy, and I'm people like are malicious to soy sometimes. So processed soy, soy pretending to be who knows what? Some other thing soy pretending to be chicken, or soy pretending to be ice cream or some kind of weird cheese or something else. Okay, I call that faux food. Actually, I didn't come up with that. It's called faux food, you know. And sometimes vegans do that, you know, they use soy to try to think that they're eating turkey or or a burger or that it's not it's not the same, and they use a lot of processed soy. But if you use organic, unprocessed or minimally processed soy, it's really healthy. It has tremendous amounts of the phytoestrogens, okay, the isoflavones, which are really helpful I mentioned Dr Bernard study. So what kind of soy should people eat? Like tofu, miso, Tempe. And you can also do, of course, edamame, the actual soybeans. So these are, those are healthy foods, but soy pretending to be some. That's it. That's it for soy. Anything else is processed to process flax seeds. Now, these are phytoestrogens, whose flax seeds have lignins. You know, the soy has isoflavones, and the flax seeds have a lot of these lignins. They're very, very healthy. But also, if you don't want to have soy, if you don't want to have flax seeds, all beans, remember, soy bean, it's a bean. So all the legumes, all the legumes, like, whatever kind of bean you like, will have phytoestrogens that will help with night sweats and hot flashes, and not if you don't like flax seeds, any seed and any nut will have some amount of lignins. But they're all vegetables and fruits have the have phytonutrients and polyphenols, and many have phytoestrogens. And I think if I think of phytoestrogens as nature's gift to women at every age, and especially in perimenopause and menopause, because phytoestrogens, which are not estrogens, but they bind to estrogen receptors and can give a lot of the same benefits, are amazing. And these are the things that you can use in women who have absolute contraindications that you just don't feel comfortable, you're not going to give them hormones, and that would be like active treatment for breast cancer, or they've had, like, in most cases, you know, they've had a PE or a DVT, or they have uterine cancer, or some other there are other indications for absolute that you'd be very cautious, or maybe you don't want to give hormones, or the patient doesn't want them. So these are things that we should do is give them lots of phytoestrogen foods. Now, what about phytoestrogen supplements? Well, there's one that is from the Siberian and there's others now on the market too, but I'm familiar with this one from the rhubarb the Siberia, the root of the Siberian rhubarb, and it's in the family of phytoestrogens called still beans. So still beans are resveratrol. Is a still bean. I'm sure you've heard of resveratrol, and there's a phytoestrogen. And there are studies with this product, the Siberian rhubarb, that is really, really good. And it's when I looked at the data, there's no, of course, comparison studies. But it was to me when I looked at the data, of course, they're run differently. The studies that the rhubarb product, this phytoestrogen, did better than vioza did, and it this is a very safe supplement and very inexpensive compared to that drug and the lignone, the isoflavones. And I don't know if you know this, but Ashwagandha is a phytoestrogen and has, there's studies to show that ashwagandha can help with vasomotor symptoms, and it's also very calming. It can help with sleep. So even if women are on hormones, no matter what we do with hormones, it's not going to be the same as being 21 let's be real. We're not giving them a new set of pristine 21 year old ovaries. We're doing the best we can with hormones, but we still need some adjunctive things, and Ashwagandha is like the universal herb. If you don't know anything about herbs, learn about ashwagandha because it has so many amazing functions. It can help with sleep, with hot flashes, with mood. And ashwagandha, because it's a phytoestrogen, there's published articles that can help to prevent osteoporosis. So you know, learn ashwagandha and avoiding, like, alcohol, caffeine, spicy foods, and avoid, I already told, I told you, smoking is an issue. Try to avoid secondhand smoke. And for women, dress in layers so that you know they're going to get hot, they're going to get cold, they're going to get hot, they're cold. So, and have you know, it's you know that I'm, you know there's, there was an article in The New York Times a few months back, maybe it's a year ago by now, that talked about the problem for working women when they're going through menopause and they're getting These vasomotor symptoms that they advocated for, like, restrooms. Okay? 100 pesos, yes, yes, happy say, so

Speaker 5  1:25:33
I don't know what's happening. Well anyway, so in that study that they reported in the New York Times, they recommended that that companies should have accommodations to women who are going through menopause, to give them places to change their clothes and so on. And I'm not saying that that's a terrible idea, but the best thing to do is give those women hormones or some kind of treatment. Don't just tell them to keep changing their clothes every time they they could have 20 night sweats, or, we'll say their day sweats, day sweats and hot flushes and sweating throughout the day. And they can't just have bring in, you know, 20 different changes of clothing. So these women need treatment more than they need, like workplace accommodation, but women should dress in layers when they're out and about until their hot flashes are controlled. Sipping cold liquids and sucking on ice is very helpful. And everything that they eat that's plant based is going to have some phytoestrogens reducing inflammation, neuro inflammation, nurturing the gut. Now we're going to talk in a minute about the the vasomotor system, involved with the autonomic nervous system, and weight loss, exercise and, you know, cooling pillows and sheets. You know, all these things are out and about. Now you can get cooling beds and sheets and fans. Now talking about the autonomic nervous system. You know, there's the two parts, the sympathetic and the parasympathetic, and these become quite dysregulated during menopause, and it's involved as well with the hypothalamus and the thermal regulatory center. And when you have dysregulation of the vagus nerve, you're not estradiol modulates the neurotransmitter of the vagus nerve, which is acetylcholine. If you don't have enough estradiol, the vagus nerve will not be functioning properly, and you'll have loss of vagal tone, and you have sympathetic overdrive, the sympathetic nervous system is modulated by norepinephrine and epinephrine as its neurotransmitter, and that will be over activated, and the vagus nerve will be under activated, and you have this sympathetic overdrive. So you then have menopause associated just from the autonomic nervous system dysregulation with inflammation, sleep disturbances, hypertension, gut microbiome dysbiosis and obesity and appetite dysregulation. And all of this is related to the hot flashes and night sweats as well, because the vagus nerve activates and is involved with the hypothalamus as well, and the thermo regulatory center is as well related, and it can give you palpitations. The autonomic nervous system is very key for a heart rate. And this is all interconnected. I want you to know that the autonomic nervous system is also linked in to the thermo regulatory centers, and it becomes dysregulated. And if you look at this, you see that there's a host of different symptoms that are related to autonomic dysregulation. And if you look under this a little bit blurry, but if you look under the area that says CNS, you'll see that it says anxiety, fatigue, brain fog, pain, vertigo, you know, so all these headaches, sleep disorders, daytime sleepiness, tachycardia, tachycardia, palpitations, pot syndrome, overactive bladder incontinence, cold hands and feet, problems involving sweating, like say, hyperhidrosis, dry mouth and eyes. All these got different gut problems, constipation, irritable bowel syndrome, dry dry eyes, all of those things, those are all heavily related to the autonomic nervous system, and actually are connected to vasomotor symptoms, because they're all interconnected. It turns out, that's why, when women have hot flashes and night sweats, we now know that those women have significantly higher risk for having heart attacks, strokes, dementia, osteoporosis, because all these systems are completely interconnected. That's why giving human bioidentical hormones is by far superior to any of these other drug symptoms that just might suppress somewhat the vasomotor symptoms, but the vasomotor symptoms are like the tip of the iceberg of what is really going on in the body. So in order to support the vagus nerve, there are vagus nerve stimulators. Laughter yoga. Look that up. There's a whole laughter yoga Association. Laughing actually will is a vagus nerve stimulator, different forms of meditation, breath work, singing, chanting, gargling, I don't know anyone who's doing gargling, cold plunges. That's the mechanism of acupuncture. That's why acupuncture can also help to reduce night sweats and hot flashes, massages, different essential oils. Working on the gut microbiome can also be beneficial. Everything that you can do to support circadian rhythm, like time when you go to bed, it should be at the same time, making the room really dark, watching the sunset. Adrenal adaptogens, like ashwagandha, is very, very helpful. Omega three, exercising can be helpful, and just having friends and doing things that make you happy can also help. The gut microbiome is also associated with night sweats and hot flashes. In fact, is this is an article that is here. Let's reference that hot flashes can be related to increased gut permeability. So just shows you how complicated all of this is, that all these systems are so interconnected. Loss of estradiol is very key to having gut dysbiosis. And here's a study that showed, once again, that hot flashes significantly were associated with impaired gut barrier. So, you know, it's like everything is interconnected to everything.

Speaker 5  1:32:11
And this is just showing you that when you go from normal reproductive years into menopausal transition and your hormone levels are going down. You're changing your gut microbiome. You're getting more impaired gut barrier, leaky gut. And the little blue cells that you see there in the gut lining, those are the entero enterocytes. They're the cells that make GLP one, glucagon like peptide. That's another peptide, right? And those poor little blue cells that make GLP one start to disintegrate. So women lose their control of appetite, glucose regulation and so on, as they actually have this gut problem and dysbiosis. And they're the entero enterocytes that make in the gut that make GLP one actually disintegrate. If you look at the oldest set of women there that are into their 70s, uh oh, those cells are gone, so you have total dysregulation, and you don't have any GLP ones anymore. That's one of the reasons, among many, why diabetes increases so dramatically in women as they transition into menopause. And here you can see the link between the vagus nerve and the gut. It's, there's it's bi directional, there's efferent and afferent, and the signals from the gut go to the brain. And when you have in neuro inflammation, neuro inflammation that's underlies having night sweats and hot flashes with infectious diseases like malaria, people can get night sweats and hot flashes certain cancers like lymphomas and leukemias can give people, you know, like autonomic dysregulation, and they can get neuro inflammation, inflammation in the thermo regulatory section of the hypothalamus, creating this dysregulation of core body temperature and causing night sweats and hot flashes, which are very similar to what women get in the menopause, the vasomotor symptoms. So other things besides being in going into menopause, can cause vasomotor type symptoms, night sweats and hot flashes, and that can be cancers like lymphomas, leukemia and various pathogens, infectious agents that cause neuro inflammation of that area, estradiol controls the whole immune system and controls inflammation. So think also of having the vasovagal symptoms as a sign of neuro inflammation, and so that you can see it's all complex, all interconnected. So all that you do to help heal the gut and get the gut microbiome right and heal leaky gut for women who are transitioning to menopause is critically important for every aspect of their health, including controlling vasomotor symptoms. And this is just showing the links between all of these things. And you can see it says hypothalamus, and all these centers are connected. It's, you know, so you can never find anything I think that isn't connected in some way to the gut microbiome. And once again, you want to have your patients eating lots of fiber foods, maintaining the proper microbes, so that you can maintain the connection with the gut and the brain, so that you don't have inflammation inducing the worsening the vasomotor symptoms. And vasomotor symptoms, I mentioned a lot of this, they're associated with really bad health status in women. They're not just about being uncomfortable or being wet. Women with high rates of vasomotor symptoms are prone to more hypertension, myocardial infarctions, strokes, depression, anxiety, dementia, skin wrinkling. That'll get your patients wanting to do the right thing. Osteoporosis, weight gain, diabetes, sugar dysregulation, joint and muscle pains and aches. So I recommend that everyone do the all the lifestyle stuff. And you probably don't need me to teach you all the lifestyle but you want to do everything to improve gut health. Targeted supplementations. We do a whole reset in my office using things like L glutamine and dim and, you know, milk thistle products, you know, sulfurophane, all these things to help with gut liver detoxification pathways, and all the nutritional companies, the nutraceutical companies, sell these different plants to help with gut restoration. You want to have time restricted eating so that they don't eat randomly, don't eat late at night. Get light therapy, because light also remember the there are receptors in the brain that go into the hypothalamus, that's where the master clock is located, sitting atop the optic nerve in the hypothalamus, to help to maintain proper circadian rhythm. That is very key also to maintaining proper thermal regulatory system function, and you want to make sure you do everything to optimize sleep and exercise, avoid endocrine disruptors and toxicants, and, of course, give hormones okay. And think about vagus nerve stimulation, adrenal adaptogens and everything you can to increase vagal tone, I recommend a lot of fiber foods. And there are things like vegetables, whole grains. Now I realize people have SIBO and sifo. You got to obviously have individual variation here. So I'm talking about generally people who can tolerate these foods, because these fibers will really fiber. Foods will really they're dense in phytoestrogens and fiber and a lot of micronutrients to really help restore the gut and reduce inflammation. And of course, no Ultra processed food. Don't forget the phytoestrogens. They're like, unbelievably important. I do hour long lectures, just on specific foods and phytoestrogens I mentioned about eating, try to eat more in the morning, less at night, no snacks, fast for at least 13 hours. But you don't have to go much more than 13, because you get diminished return on investment. And try to have your patients, if possible, not skip breakfast. I mentioned light watch the sunset, get a light box. I recommend the happy light light box to so many of my patients. You do 30 minutes at 10,000 Lux, l, u, x, e, that's the measure of light energy to 30 minutes in the morning at the midday, and then this is where the finesse comes for women who are waking up at two three in the morning, they're getting sweats, if you have them do 10 to 15 minutes of light at 10,000 Lux with the light box two to three hours before they go to bed. It helps with their Phase disorder. So it helps to shift the phase so that the brain will stop thinking that three o'clock in the morning is actually six o'clock. These are women who have phase sleep disorders that are circadian rhythm dysfunction due to estradiol insufficiency, and this will definitely humongously increase vasomotor symptoms. So think about using the light boxes and do everything to promote sleep. Check for sleep apnea, the incidence doubles at menopause. Get a fan. I sleep with a fan. All that I love. It feels like like an ocean breeze on me. I almost always use a fan. I have a stand up one. Do things to lower stress. Relaxation time start two to three, two, not three, two hours, one to two hours before bedtime. Avoid screens, if possible, make the bedroom really comfortable. Exercise actually can help reduce vasomotor symptoms. So everyone should get on an exercise program that's fun to do to their optimal extent that they can tolerate without injury, of course. So I usually do recommend trainers to begin with, avoid toxicants, chemicals, endocrine disruptors are obviously not going to help matters, and we don't have time, obviously, to go into how I would recommend some of you may know, but what I recommend, in a nutshell, would be levels to get your estradiol level to be somewhere between 80 and 150

Speaker 5  1:40:47
picograms per mil to tolerance and comfort and using progesterone, which I also measure progesterone cyclically, I recommend where you give, typically two to 400 usually I just give 200 but occasionally you have to go higher, like in like they do in infertility clinics, of progesterone vaginally, as opposed to orally, because now we know I mean oral goes through the liver the first pass, just like estradiol goes through the first pass, and 80 to 90% of progesterone is metabolized into other stuff, predominantly allopregnanolone, but 30 different things, and you don't get enough progesterone, and you get too much of the metabolites, but more on that another time. So, but hormones are the best and the master of everything, master of metabolic homeostasis and the masters of thermoregulatory center of the brain. So doing all these things, using light therapy, exercise, socialization, eating at the right time, working on stress, giving estradiol, will help to keep all the systems, the vasomotor symptoms, down and allow people to have a quality of life. So no one ever has in their family a situation like I had with my grandmother. To lose my grandmother to vasomotor symptoms and menopause is just unthinkable. It changed the life of my family forever. My father was just, you know, never He was right there. So you can imagine the impact it had on him. So vasomotor symptoms are not insignificant. They're huge issues. They're and every woman needs to be treated. Almost all women going through menopause will suffer from vasomotor symptoms and all the other things that come along for the ride, all the other metabolic dysfunctions that are associated with significant vasomotor symptoms. And for any of you out there, that's my little QR code. If you scan it, I have free ebooks that I wrote on menopause lifestyle and menopause and thyroid if you're interested, and it accesses all my free stuff that I have, and those are the books that I've written to date. Hope to write more. And thank you for staying with me this long and understanding that you know this is very personal to me, vasomotor symptoms, and I hope that you will see the huge importance that these vasomotor symptoms have. You know the importance of menopause, the importance of this time in a woman's life, and that you will be the doctors who are there for these women who desperately need you and help to educate other doctors who just quite haven't gotten the word yet. So thank you so much.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:42
Thank you. Okay. Dr Neri, you got any questions online?

Speaker 2  1:43:49
Yeah, you want to knock first, or should I go first? You go first? Okay, so. Dr Hirsh, that was awesome. Another good education from one of the experts here. So the one of the questions here, as we notice that women does not have that specific timeline when hot flashes occur for them. And the bigger question here is, what is there's so many theories, genetics, races, as you said, and even metabolic health. But in your experience, why do women have severe symptoms while others barely notice menopause and even timing is different? What? What do you think is a bigger contributor to that?

Speaker 5  1:44:33
Ovarian inflammation is a big one, okay, and then the other one would be neuro inflammation. So when you think about, I mean, other than, like, what happened to me, you know, where I had a tubal ligation, and suddenly, I guess my ovarian blood supply was diminished to the point where my poor little ovaries gave out. But in general, when you have inflammation that's systemic, don't think the ovaries escape it. They've actually done studies where, if you pull out follicular fluid from around the eggs, that there's actually, they're all They're impregnated with the mononucleo sites of the the all the leukocytes, you know, all the immune cells. It's, it's inflammatory fluid. So the bottom line is, the ovaries of women who are unhealthy, they have environmental toxicant that are too high, they have the wrong diet, they're sedentary, they're overweight, and that type of thing, all of those things, will create inflammation, and that inflammation affects the ovaries, and they'll put out hormones differently so that can and when you have problems with inflammation in the ovaries, you don't produce progesterone properly. That's what underlies a lot of women's menstrual problems, like having very heavy bleeding or cramps, is because they actually don't make enough progesterone to properly have secretory conversion. So and then when you have inflammation in the brain, it's going to affect the thermal regulatory centers of the brain, and they'll become dysregulated, similar to if you have an infection brain trauma can do that if you know so, and if you have certain cancers, where you get neuro inflammation, all of those things, anything that creates neuro inflammation. That's why I want to make sure people realize that neuro inflammation can also from any source. Can trigger this, this regulation of the thermo regulatory system, and can induce, you know, similar vasovagal, not vasovagal, vasomotor symptoms, with night sweats and hot flashes. So I think that's what underlies the overall health of these women really portends to whether they'll have bad symptoms. Then also the diets, like I mentioned, phytoestrogens, women who eat a really healthy, plant based diet with lots of different phytoestrogens like soy. Like the Asian women, they tend to have much less in terms of symptoms. And if you look at what we know are risk factors like obesity, smoking, things that create inflammation, are definitely risk factors, so the healthier you are before you go into perimenopause, the less likely that you'll have these problems. But I think that some of it is also genetic luck. I think there's something genetic as well, because we know that there is some connection to what happened to your mother. That seems always that genetics have a role. So women whose moms had really bad menopause experiences. You know, with vasomotor symptoms are more likely at risk, and it could be environmental as well as genetic, right?

Speaker 2  1:47:50
Yeah, and we always talk about mitochondrial health inflammation, and those are things that we definitely need to optimize before we get into that menopausal per menopausal phase as well. Another question here. So we're talking about estrogen, progesterone. The the curiosity here is, does testosterone help with the hot flashes? I'm thinking they're what they're probably thinking about testosterone aromatizing to estrogen. I mean, yes.

Speaker 5  1:48:18
So it's very interesting in men and women, many of the testosterone receptors in the brain are located right next to estradiol receptors in the brain. They're like a lot of the effects of testosterone are through the just like you said, aromatization into estradiol. So I think so that testosterone definitely can, can help. We know, for example, men who go through like when they have prostate cancer and they go on the drugs that block their ability to make testosterone, you know that that's a very hard thing for a man to have that happen, but that's the, you know, hormone blockers. But they, you know, that are given to men to block their ability to make testosterone. I'm not sure that that's really a good approach, but that's a story. Maybe you guys have talked about that, you know, blocking testosterone in men who have prostate cancer, those men often get night sweats and hot flashes. I'm glad that you brought that up and but it's predominantly through their conversion into estradiol in the brain. The brain is a master organ of paracrine production of estradiol from testosterone, and that's a definite way that men maintain many of their brain functions is through the conversion of testosterone. That doesn't mean testosterone doesn't have its own unique benefits and receptors, but it's a, it's a it's hard to separate them sometimes, like when you find that the receptors are right next to one another, and the enzyme aromatase is sitting there ready to make a conversion, it's hard to always know, like, what's from testosterone and what's from estradiol,

Speaker 2  1:50:01
right, right? And that's why we have the symphony. You always know about estrogen, testosterone, progesterone, working all together, right? Another curious question here other hormones. So we spoke about progesterone, estrogen, related to the manifestations of these VMs symptoms. What about insulin? What about cortisol? Basically, carbohydrate metabolism, stress induction of cortisol. What are the factors that how they contribute to the BMS, manifestation of patients?

Speaker 5  1:50:31
Well, if we look at cortisol, when I showed there was one slide, I didn't want to spend too much time, because we'd be here too long. But when you look at the entire like the symphony between the gut, the gut microbiome, the vagus nerve, the sympathetic ganglia and the hypothalamus of the brain. You also then have to put in the adrenergic component, which is, of course, adrenergic, as in adrenal and when you have over stress, when you have too much sympathetic output, which happens when you have dysregulation of the gut microbiome, when you don't have enough estradiol, when you have chronic states of inflammation, and you get this, like roundabout everything, it's, you know, efferent and afferent fibers from The vagus nerve to and from the brain, the hypothalamus, the gut and it the ad the stress response sympathetic overdrive, includes adrenergic activation of the adrenal gland and what and the adrenal gland with the cortisol production is also heavily linked to control of the circadian master clock, which also is very involved. It's so complex, is very involved, and estradiol has receptors in the master clock as well. So it's very interconnected. That's why women who have high stress and have high cortisol, which will then increase insulin resistance and also increased leaky gut will impact in the hypothalamus with the circadian rhythm, and also, over time, creates more inflammation and neuro inflammation. So absolutely, all of these things are interconnected. It's that's why. It's not simple. It's not like that's why there's never going to be truly, here's like the magic pill that fixes everything, because it's just too complex for that. But yes, those hormones are very interconnected as well, and we know that. You know, like you mentioned, mitochondria. Mitochondria, you can't run the cell machinery without having proper mitochondria creating energy, and glucose is the, generally the preferred energy source for the brain. With menopause, the glucose transport system into the brain doesn't work properly, and the brain is not good at utilizing glucose as an energy source. That's why people talk about keto, ketogenic diets for people who are having cognitive problems, because the system, and they talk about dementia as like diabetes three, you know, because it's really related to glucose metabolism, which, of course, is in interconnected with insulin. So yes, it's and then when you don't have proper glucose transport, and you have insulin resistance, insulin rises, and then insulin creates over chronic chronic levels of insulin create more inflammation as well. So yes, it's these are all interconnected, and the thyroid hormone has receptors everywhere. And it turns out that estradiol is critical for thyroid receptor function. There's also estradiol receptors on the thyroid gland, so they are all interconnected, absolutely. That's why women who have hyperthyroidism, they'll have night sweats and hot flashes, you know, because they with they sweat like crazy, right? Their thermo regulatory sensors are dysregulated. When you have hyperthyroidism and hypo they feel cold all the time, you know. So 100% the all these hormones are interconnected. But I always look at estrogen as sort of like the master of metabolic homeostasis, because in some way it regulates all of these hormones, but they're all intertwined, right?

Speaker 2  1:54:21
I agree. And even, even when you mentioned about estrogen receptors all over the place, circadian clocks, as we always thought, only just in the pineal gland. It's all over the body. It's all everywhere. Yeah, they have circadian clocks in every organ.

Speaker 5  1:54:34
That's right. In fact, when they look at the clock genes, something like a third of all, a third of all genes in the body are clock genes. And when you look at associated with clock genes, so genes that are not clock genes, but they're associated with clock genes, it's 90% of all genes in the body. That's how critical circadian rhythm is, right?

Speaker 2  1:54:57
Dr, Bill, you want to insert some of those chat questions, yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:02
Doctor Bailey remarks, vasomotor symptoms make him think of a loss of nitric oxide. Is that a possibility?

Speaker 5  1:55:13
Well, nitric oxide is critical for for brain health, for vascular health, you know, and we look at like the enzyme, there's endothelial nitric oxide synthase to make nitric oxide in vessels and neuronal, which neuronal nitric oxide synthase in the brain. So there's no question, nitric oxide is like a hormone. You know? It's an antioxidant, it's a regulatory agent, and everything depends on nitric oxide. So we didn't get down to the nitty gritty cellular level here, like we just touched on mitochondria. Mitochondria can't work properly without nitric oxide, you know. So 100% nitric oxide is critically important. Estradiol is what modulates the enzyme systems, nitric oxide synthase, to make nitric oxide. And of course, when you don't have the right gut microbiome, and the right gut and my the right gut types of nutrients that are in there, and also the oral microbiome, if you don't have the right oral microbiome, then you don't make nitric oxide through the alternative pathway, and estradiol is critical for all the microbiomes, including the oral microbiome and the the entire gut microbiome. So all of these things are interconnected. So two thumbs up for nitric oxide, 100%

Bill Clearfield  1:56:38
so you you mentioned a number of times that you like the estradiol levels between 80 and 150 what? How do you how do you get there? Let's say, Well, I have a serum level of, say, 15 or I not sure what a what a saliva level would be. But how do you get there?

Speaker 5  1:57:02
Well, you know, I if I'm starting with someone that's recently menopausal, okay, or they're perimenopausal, perimenopausal is another thing, because there you're just, it's supplementation and that their own hormones are still being made. It's just probably not, not adequate, right? But if we take someone in menopause, where they're it's flat lining. They're not making anything. So you have to there's no protocol. As you know, there is no written protocol, because the standard of care is not to give hormones for optimal health. It's to give hormones to suppress vasomotor symptoms, night sweats and hot flashes. That's the only reason that all these organizations, all those menopause societies that I mentioned, that's still their goal. It's just suppressing those symptoms, and that's not enough of a dose to optimize bone health and brain health and so on. We know that doses at least. We have a lot of studies, or medium number of studies, looking at bone health, how directly related the level of estradiol is to actual growing bone and maintaining bone optimization. So you have to find what you're comfortable with for young women, if I'm going to give and I use all estradiol forms, like I use compounded plenty of times. But I also use the commercial products, the patches and the gel. I don't use the spray, because ever miss to me, when I've looked at all the data, you can't get levels anywhere high enough, you so the levels are so low they're still often in the menopausal range, even after three sprays, you know? So I don't use the spray, so I just use the patches or the gel. And in when you use the patches, if you there's some data that if you give up the point one patch, you can get levels and not in all women, because the skin is a barrier, so you never know what someone's going to get, what based on what you give, you never know what's really going to get into the blood. You have to measure. But that's not the standard of care. The standard of care is you don't measure. You just give enough, the little, it's still the least amount, the least amount, just to suppress.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:16
Well, yeah, but I'm asking you, what's your okay, what I do. We want the Gersh standard, okay?

Speaker 5  1:59:21
The Gersh standard. I just always now, you know the standard of care, which is not, we all knew that. You all know that. So what I do so I'm not afraid of hormones at all. Okay? Like I say, there are many things to be afraid of. Bioidentical hormones don't deserve to be on that list. Okay, so don't they're not afraid of them. So with a younger woman who's like recently, when I say recently, I mean less than five years, okay, into menopause. If I'm going to use the patch, I usually start at the point one, and I tell them, Look, if you have too much breast tenderness, it's not dangerous you maybe you need more iodine, you know. Or maybe you should stop drinking so much coffee, you know. We have to look at other reasons why they would be sensitive. I also find that some women will have more breast tenderness if they use the patch, maybe because of the way it's released, but then they do with the gel or compounded. So some if they have too much breast tenderness, it's maybe they don't the patch isn't really for them. I don't think there's anything published, but I certainly have seen that, that you also absorb better from the patch if you put it on the upper part of the butt, rather than on the tummy, you know, but you don't sit on it. So for some reason, the skin there absorbs better from the patch to get higher levels. If you just can't seem to get the levels up. But some from the data, the point one patch can, in many women, get to about 100 picograms per mil. So for many women, it's just one and done. You give them the point one patch, and they do fine. If they're too sensitive, and they say, Oh, I have so much breast tenderness. I mean, you could start them at the point oh five patch, and then work up to the point oh, seven, five after, say, two cycles, and then go up to the point one. You know, if you there are a few women that actually get good levels. It's very rare on point oh five, but usually with point oh five, you're not going to get much above 50. So it's sometimes you get even well below that. In the keep study, they used point oh five. And the highest level they got, and they measured, was 40, my 40 picograms per mil. So it always stayed in the menopausal anything below 50 is still menopausal level. It just stayed in the menopausal level. So in terms of the gel, I usually start at either the one or the 1.25 milligrams for younger women. And I it's a little harder. You know, with a patch you can, it's a little off label, but you can cut it. It's still fine with the matrix, dot patch, you can cut it. And so if I say, Well, if this is feels like it's too much, you're having too much breast tenderness, and we just want to try it then just cut like a quarter off, you know? So I'll do that, but I don't want to start low and just spread it out. I want to get results, and I want to get results fast and and I want to get effects on the brain and the bone, and I want them feeling better as fast as possible. I don't want to we know that you can give tiny doses of estradiol, and it will take, like, three months to see any results that that's not my goal. I want to get results fast, and I'm not like I said, What am I afraid of with hormones, breast tenderness, bleeding, I know how to deal with all of those things, so none of those are dangerous. And with the progesterone, I just typically start them right out with 200 tell them to try it intravaginally, when they do it vaginally, and I know that everyone's not doing that, but I hope everybody will, and that they'll tell women that bleeding is just how you're made. You can't you can't get growth factors. If you don't have enough to grow the uterine lining, you're not going to have enough growth factors for brain derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, transforming growth factor, vascular endothelial growth factor. We need growth factors, and you can't get if you're the growth factors are going to go to the uterine lining, and they're going to proliferate, grow the uterine lining. If you keep suppressing the uterine lining by giving progesterone every day, then progesterone down regulates the Alpha receptor of estradiol, which is what is involved in growth factors. So basically, that regimen of nightly progesterone is designed to suppress estrogen benefits. You're going to suppress growth factors. Well, I want growth factors. I want to have repair. I want to have maintenance and rejuvenation. You need growth factors. So if you suppress them in the uterus, you're suppressing them everywhere. Progesterone is going everywhere. And it's a balance that's progesterone when you after you ovulate in the menstrual cycle and you make progesterone, it's progesterone that stops proliferation. That's why the uterine lining stops growing and then become secretory. But we don't want to stop the we don't. That's why you have to have a cycle. Nothing should be all the time you grow. You don't grow. You know you shed. You know that when you shed, there's studies in men, in menstruating women, that when they're shedding their lining, they're also shedding bad cells, senescent cells, elsewhere in the body, and estradiol regulates the entire cell cycle, which is really regulated by mitochondria. So you're also getting rid of senescent cells. Estradiol is a senolytic, but you have to have the cycle, and you have to have the dose. Dose matters in everything. You know, no one says five minutes of exercise a month is as good as 30 minutes five times a week. I mean, come on, dose matters. So if you give enough estradiol, you're going to grow the uterine lining. And if you grow it, you have to shed it, or it's just going to bleed irregularly. And then you give the progesterone for 14 days vaginally, and you get incredible levels that are physiologic. And you get complete secretory conversion all infertility centers, all IVF centers, use vaginal progesterone. There's a ton of published data on vaginal progesterone. They use, sometimes 400 to three times a day, vaginal progesterone. So I start with 200 and if their periods are too heavy, the pretend periods are too heavy or they actually have cramping. It means that you need to give more progesterone. You need to give more because you're not getting complete secretory conversion. When you get complete secretory conversion, the uterine lining will have like a plane, just like in a naval orange. You can get the orange and the peel separated easily when you have a good plane, if you have a good plane, then the uterine lining will just come right off and just come off, and you'll have less bleeding, less pain. If it comes off in little dibs and drabs, then the uterine lining will cause they'll have bleeding. You'll have more bleeding because it's coming off in little pieces instead of just coming off altogether. And then the uterus says, Get outlining, get outlining. And then you have to cramp. The uterine lining has to the uterine muscle has to cramp more. It's like a mini, mini version of labor. It's like, get the baby out, cramp, cramp, now get the uterine lining out. Cramp, cramp. So you want to have it easy, that you want to create that proper, perfect secretory conversion, that means you have to get estradiol levels up in a normal menstrual cycle. Progesterone levels can be very variable, but they're always going to be over 10. It has to be over 10. So you got to measure progesterone. It has to be now. Now, if you're giving it at night, and then you're measuring your progesterone in the morning, like I do, then you have to have a little leeway, because you're going to be past the peak level. So if they're getting regular cycles and they're good and they're not too heavy or anything, and their levels are like over seven, then that's probably adequate, because it means it was much higher, just a few hours earlier. Okay, so I and then women have to it's how you present it, it's all how you frame it in your mind. So I say, when you have this bleeding, it's a small price to pay for having optimization of hormones and all the things that they do, and taking hormones in tiny doses, not enough to grow the uterine lining, and then suppressing it every day with progesterone. It's like, what's the point? You know, you're giving an inadequate amount of estradiol and you're giving progesterone to suppress the growth factors every day, but you will suppress night sweats and hot flashes. So I always say, What's your point? Why do you want to go on hormones? If it's just to suppress night sweats and hot flashes, then any hormones will do for any period of time, practically, for any dose. But if your goal is optimization, dose matters, rhythm matters, because you can't grow the uterine lining without giving enough estrogen to create growth factors, you know, and that's going to need to be shed in a regular way. So it's how you frame it. You know women, if you say it's very abnormal to have a period after you're in menopause, well, I'm not going to say it isn't, but so is giving hormones, so is living to 100 Nature never expected that we would live to 100 in good health, right? So we're trying to be smart, but we can't totally outsmart nature. We have to live within nature's guidelines. So I always say the biggest failed experiment of we're smarter than nature, like we give, you know, abnormal, completely unnatural hormone regimens to women that never exist in nature. The biggest failed experiment was, we can create food that tastes better than natural food, like we'll put in more sugar, we'll put in Marsh salt. How's that worked out for us? Right? We can create food that never spoils. We'll just put in trans fat, right? Then we can eat Twinkies in 100 years. How's that worked out? I think we just problem with that. I don't know. I just, I'm waiting for that 100 Year Twinkie. The Twinkie will last 100 years, yeah, but we won't. If we eat trans fat.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:02
Question about transdermal nitroglycerin for vasomotor symptoms?

Speaker 5  2:09:09
Never, never used it, I would probably say we have better solutions.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:16
Okay, Jerilyn prior, just published, and if the effectiveness of world progesterone 300 milligrams to resolve vasomotor symptoms, also that women have the highest estrogen levels of their lifetime in the perimenopausal years. So adding estrogen can cause more problems.

Speaker 5  2:09:36
So let me do the second one first. So first you have to think why there's no published data on this, but I use it in my practice. Okay, why do women have these crazy swings? So what happens is the eggs themselves are now aged, so you have older eggs that are not as functional, but they're still there, right? And so it's harder for the brain to through the pituitary to get the eggs to make estrogen, to make estrogen from the ovaries. So you have the rise of FSH and LH through the pituitary. But you know the signals are coming from the brain, from the hypothalamus, through the gonadotropin releasing factors, or hormones. So the bottom line is, the brain has sensors to estradiol. The brain has no sensors to testosterone, just so you know that that's just a side note. The brain has sensors to estradiol. The estradiol production starts to go down. So the brain wants the ovaries to make estradiol, because it senses is not enough. So it puts out normal amounts of FSH and LH to try to get the ovaries to make more estradiol, but they're like old eggs, and they're resistant, so they don't respond well. So the brain says, All right, I'm going to put out higher levels of FSH and LH to get the brain to get the ovaries to make more estrogen, and it doesn't respond. Then it puts out more, and then it suddenly, there's like a surge of FSH. So it's like a hyper stim, if you like it were involved in egg retrieval for either egg freezing or IVF, they'll give high, high levels of FSH. And so when you give these high, high levels of FSH, then what happens is the ovaries finally respond, and they go through and they like oversurge, and they put out, you'll get 800 picograms per mil of estradiol. But the reason is because the brain has sensors, and it's not getting the estrogen it needs to tell it that everything's fine, so it keeps trying through the gonadotropins, raising the gonadotropins, to get the ovaries to make more estradiol, and then the eggs finally respond with this dramatic overshoot, of course, and then it goes down. So then it goes up, and then it goes down. The trend is generally down, but you have these big ups and downs. If you give some estradiol. The brain sensors will never have to do this. They won't have to go whoa, up and down, up and down, trying to get the ovaries to make more estradiol. So if you give a background amount of estradiol, the sensors in the brain won't need to put out more gonadotropins, and then you won't get that overshoot. And you can actually reduce these crazy swings by giving the background estradiol. Now, is there published data? No, so I'm telling you personal anecdotal data, okay, and but it can be dramatic for some women that now, if you don't want to do that, and you're monitoring, like, say they're doing one of the kits, and they're like, monitoring their estradiol levels through urine metabolites. If they want to do that, then just give the progesterone, you know. And you can give the progesterone for two weeks, give it once again vaginally and and that will help them to have more regular periods, and also, as they what, you know, luteal phase defects are very common as women age, because they their ovaries are not making progesterone properly. You know, it's just like everything's getting old and it's not working as well. So you'll get better, better results and better periods and more regular organism. You know that you can get predictable periods by giving the progesterone, but the reason I give estradiol in perimenopause is that the general trend is down. You get these big spikes up, but if you give background estradiol, it's like a safety net for the brain, for the sensors, so that doesn't have to do those giant up and down regulation type things to try to get the ovaries to make more estrogen. In terms of progesterone, it turns out that many hormones, like, like you mentioned, testosterone, before we have data, you can give progesterone. You don't have to. I mean, give 300 milligrams, even much less than that, will often suppress night sweats and hot flashes. I had one slide that just barely mentioned it, but there are progesterone receptors throughout the brain and in the hypothalamus as well, and also in the thermo regulatory centers, so progesterone can actually act on the thermo regulatory centers. Now, one of its that when you give oral progesterone. I mentioned, 80 to 90% of it is metabolized into other stuff, metabolites over like 30 of them, the dominant one being allopregnanolone. Now in the brain we have the neurotransmitters. We have the activating neurotransmitter glutamate, which is activated by estradiol, predominantly, and that is what you have that gives you focus and memory and alertness. The drug that activates glutamate is their amphetamines, right? So that you take amphetamines, when people take them, you know, for like Ritalin, like for ADHD to give them more focus, they give it to pilots and other types of long haul truckers, you know, so they don't fall asleep while they're flying their plane or driving a truck or something right? I'm not saying it's right or wrong, but that's what's done, and to keep people awake and alert. Well, progesterone, through its metabolite, allopregnanolone activates GABA. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter and is very sedating. So through allopregnanolone, when you take progesterone orally, you make a lot, a lot of allopregnanolone. With an allopregnanolone is really good. The problem with too much allopregnanolone every day is that it activates GABA, the GABA a receptor which is inhibitory. There's data in rats that if you have chronic exposure to too much allopregnanolone, the rats actually get dementia in adult in humans, there is published data that too much allopregnanolone can impair memory formation. So when you take too much oral progesterone on a regular basis, you're giving so much allopregnanolone to the brain, you're you're activating too much GABA. You know, too much of a good thing is a bad thing, and you get too much inhibitory but if you just giving it short term, you know that it's inhibitory. It's going to down regulate many of the receptors, and it can act, it can roll over into the thermo regulatory centers to some degree. And I don't think there's a whole lot of research on that, but that's what I think is happening, as well as the fact that there's direct receptors for progesterone in the thermo regulatory centers.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:49
Okay, how you doing? There's a number of questions left, but that we're well,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:54
I don't know how the audience is doing.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:59
You're okay.

Speaker 5  2:17:00
I'm okay. I know I look a little tired, but I'm recovering still. I didn't tell you what happened to my plane. We boarded my plane to get home from Las Vegas, and after we're boarded, we started pulling out from the gate, and there was a big bang sound. And the pilot came on and said, you probably heard that bang sound. Well, that was the starter. I didn't know that jets had a starter. They said we can't start that. We can't start the engines. There's nothing wrong with the engines. We just can't start them. So we're going to have to get towed back to the gate, and then they're going to see if they can fix it. I knew that was hopeless. I was on the last flight out, but then what they ended up doing was a, I call it a Christmas miracle. They had us D board the plane, and they we went to a gate that was like a few doors down from our gate, and there was a whole group of people lined up to get on a plane to fly to LAX I was, I was flying into John Wayne, and they told everyone from the LAX plane to go sit down. They gave their plane to my plane passengers. So my group of passengers from my plane stole the plane from the LAX passengers. We got on the plane. We flew back to Orange County. They kept the airport open for an extra half an hour until almost 1130 at night, and I have no idea what happened to those people trying to get home. To LAX. They had no they had no plane. But anyway, by the time I got to bed, it was well past 1am and so I'm still recovering.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:36
They knew you were, you know, VIP coming back

Speaker 5  2:18:39
right, conquering, though, anyway, but I'm still hanging in there.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:43
There's, there's a discussion in this, in the chat about soybeans and stabilizing glucose and delaying gratification and high IQ. I'm not sure you know what that's

Speaker 5  2:18:58
I'm not sure about delaying gratification, and I'm not sure about high IQ, but you know, I think the more phytoestrogens either

Bill Clearfield  2:19:07
there's a thumbs up here for more omegas threes than omega sixes. Nobody in the US does that. How much testosterone are you giving? What is your opinion on biased?

Speaker 5  2:19:18
5050, okay, testosterone. We have very limited data on testosterone in women. The only FDA approved use, not that we necessarily care, is for hypoactive sexual desire disorder and kind of low libido. And we have no guidelines at all. So I had to make up my own just FYI, because there are no guidelines. So if you look at the reference range for testosterone, depending on the lab, it's somewhere in the neighborhood of three to 50. Okay, that's in that range. So I just figure you don't want to be in the bottom half. But I figure, okay, why would you want to be in the bottom half? You don't necessarily want to be in the very top either. That might include women with PCOS. You don't want to be in the very top. So I figure you want to be like maybe between the 50th and the 70th percentile. See, I made that up. Okay, so if you have that range, maybe you want to be in the

Bill Clearfield  2:20:09
25 years. We usually shoot for about 30 to 40 on total

Speaker 5  2:20:12
and Okay, so I was going to say 25 to up to the upper 30s. So not too different.

Bill Clearfield  2:20:18
Yeah, two to 4% on the free androgen index. I know that's when you don't,

Speaker 5  2:20:22
probably don't like well, because the problem is that the testosterone levels are so low in women that the assays for total testosterone are borderline accurate, let alone looking at teensy little free testosterone. But I like to look at sex hormone binding globulin, because, yeah, that's what we use. Yeah, I know it's what you use when you compute it, right? So sex hormone binding globulin, so 99% 99% of testosterone is bound in the blood, mostly to sex hormone binding globulin. When you lose your estradiol, sex hormone binding globulin declines, because that's a very key thing. That's actually how birth control pills work. The ethanol estradiol and birth control pills is very powerful for increasing sex hormone binding globulin, which binds up the testosterone, which can improve acne. So that's the that's the main mechanism. Okay, so with but natural estradiol, bioidentical estradiol will also increase sex hormone binding globulin, and when you have reduced amounts sex hormone bonding binding globulin goes down. So if you have less sex hormone binding globulin, you're going to have more unbound testosterone available to the tissues. So it's a little tricky, because you can have normal or even a little bit lower levels of testosterone, but you have more unbound and that's why many women around perimenopause actually develop acne and start growing whiskers, and that the last thing they want or need is more testosterone. What they need is more estradiol, more sex hormone binding globulin, so they have less unbound testosterone. And that's when women start having androgenic alopecia. So and then the last and especially some women, are high converters of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. And so you start increasing their testosterone level, they're going to grow more hair, septism, they're going to get acne, they're going to get thinner hair. Oh my gosh, you're going to be very unpopular. Okay, so I think there's an overplay of testosterone, and there's some evidence that testosterone levels actually increase in women in their 60s. Isn't that weird? And also the production, but their sex hormone bind, the globulin, if they're not on hormones, is going to be really low, so they're going to have a lot of unbound that's why, if you go into a nursing home and you see the little old ladies. They're all going to have, like, little whiskers, and they're going to have really thin hair. You can see all their little wispy hairs and all their scalp, and they're not on testosterone. They just have no estrogen. They have really a low sex hormone binding globulin, and they have too much free testosterone, you know, and they're that's why they get whiskers. I mean, so testosterone is not the solution, and then you have to know where is testosterone even coming from? 75% directly and indirectly from, you know, androgen precursors comes from the adrenal gland, and 25% from the ovaries. And the ovaries can make testosterone forever. You don't need a single egg to make testosterone. So testosterone does not go down at menopause, and it may go up because the gonadotropins are higher, right? You have higher LH because testosterone in the ovaries the precursor to test to estradiol. All estradiol in the ovaries made from testosterone that's made in the ovaries

Bill Clearfield  2:23:38
all maybe it's where we live. We have, I see patients all the time where their testosterone levels are essentially zero.

Speaker 5  2:23:46
Well, so you have to look at so, yeah, well, women can have all different levels, and if they need it, I prescribe testosterone. I don't want to give you the impression I'm just saying that I don't think it should be a reflex. You know, they hit an agent. You just give them testosterone. Okay, I think you really have to think this through. Like the zone of the zone of reticularis is the area of the adrenal gland that makes androgens. We know from imaging that as you age, it shrivels. So testosterone levels as a general statement, do decline with aging, but not at menopause. In fact, they may have increase in menopause because of the increase in LA. So just individualize it, and then what I do is I give cream, I give tests. I don't use pellets. I pellets are uncontrolled and almost always super physiologic dosing. So I don't personally use pellets. I give creams where I can start low and then raise it like I give I can start with one milligram cream twice a day. I can go to two milligrams twice a day. I can go to three. So I start low and I titrate up with unlike estradiol, I don't want to start too high on testosterone. I'd rather there's no emergency testosterone situation. There's just isn't so I would start low, see how they tolerate. Go up another milligram. Go up another milligram. Generally speaking, the highest you should ever go is five twice. Five milligrams twice a day. That would be a total of 10 a day.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:16
I disagree with there's no emergency. You bring us one of our post menopausal ladies who's had adequate testosterone, and then it drops off. Then they call up and say, you know, it's holiday time. This is an emergency.

Speaker 5  2:25:29
Well, if they so, I'm that's I would say that's a little different. When women go I'm talking women who are not on testosterone they didn't have unless their ovaries are no makeup thing, if you have your ovaries removed, like you have a hysterectomy, if something's wrong with your ovaries or whatever. And they actually, they don't do this so much, but you have an offerectomy, the ovaries make 25% of the the testosterone, and there's no compensatory mechanism for the adrenals to make up what you lost in the brain. In the women has no sense. There's no sensors in the brain for testosterone at all. So if the testosterone drops, the brain does nothing to compensate. The adrenals will not compensate. The ovaries are removed, you're down 25% instantly. All those women need testosterone. That's an instant drop. If you're on testosterone, and then you suddenly stop being on testosterone, that's an instant drop, okay, but if you just are aging naturally, and your your body maybe is making less over time, it's not going to go through like that. So that's why I say, for natural women who are not on testosterone, there's no testosterone emergency, okay, but if your ovaries are removed, you need to get right right on testosterone. And if you're on it, and then suddenly you stop taking it, and you're pulled like that, that's going to give you a problem. So you need to get right back on it.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:51
There's a question, what's the highest dose of progesterone you've ever prescribed? And also estrogen,

Speaker 5  2:26:57
400 of testosterone, of 400 of progesterone. 400 milligrams is my highest that I've gone and for estrogen, probably like five milligrams, twice a day of compounded is the highest. And I look at levels, so when you give compounded estradiol, it's absorbed much less well than the commercial products. And as a general statement, I'm the you know, it depends where you put it too, okay, how where you put it matters for how it absorbs. So generally, the dosing is not comparable between like the patch and the gel and the cream. So and where you put the cream can also vary. You know, in its absorbing if you put it on thinner skin, it's going to absorb more than if you put it on thicker skin, right? Because the skin is supposed to be a barrier. You know, that's why they that the patent for the commercial products is not for the estradiol. You can't patent estradiol. It's for the delivery system, how to get it through the skin to be absorbed into the bloodstream. So in terms of the patch I have used, but not that commonly, two of the point ones, you know, for people who just don't absorb and two of the highest dose gel packs I have used, but not too often, because I'm not trying to super dose, you know, I'm not looking to get 300 picograms or so. I'm not that's not my goal as a general rule, you know.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:30
Okay, this is more of a statement. Dr Byerly, hot flashes are from low estradiol, low progesterone and high or low cortisol.

Speaker 5  2:28:41
Any comment on that or, well, it's definitely from low estradiol, and there's less data on progesterone, but definitely low progesterone is not a good thing for cortisol. Also, my belief is that high cortisol is going to give you more hot flashes and low cortisol.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:04
Perimenopausal patient who is symptomatic, their FSH is still below 10 to 20. Would you consider starting estradiol?

Speaker 5  2:29:15
Yes, okay, but I would rule out everything else you got to rule out when they could have something else going on with them, right? So you don't want to make any assumptions. Always rule out other conditions,

Bill Clearfield  2:29:27
Okay, what about women who are estrogen dominant? How do you compensate for that?

Speaker 5  2:29:34
Well, the only time that women are naturally estrogen dominant would be perimenopause, like when it was mentioned that you get this overshoot of estradiol. And we mentioned already about that if you have a woman who has, and I try to avoid the word estrogen dominance, because, like, what estrogen are you talking about? Remember, there's like, oh, and I'll go back on the biased one. I forgot to answer that one. But in terms of estrogen dominance, it would be estrone. Okay? So women who are very inflamed have too much adipose tissue, or they're going to be inflammation, upregulates the enzyme aromatase. Aromatase converts androgens into estrogens, okay? And the dominant androgens will be like DHS and DHEA, they convert to estrone. Okay. When you have inflammation, the enzyme that converts estrone into estradiol is down regulated, so you kind of get stuck in estrone. So when you're inflamed, you make estrone, and you can't convert estrone easily into estradiol, so you're stuck in estrone. Estrone activates predominantly the Alpha receptor, which is the receptor involved in proliferation, growth factors, and also their Alpha receptor is on the innate the dominant estrogen receptor on innate immune cells like macrophages, neutrophils, monocytes, mast cells, I think I mentioned so you end up becoming more pro inflammatory. You're activating the innate immune cells. You're promoting growth and proliferation. So that's the perfect ticket, right to cancer. You have uncontrolled proliferation and inflammation, and you already have inflammation. Now you're just increasing the inflammation. So what's the solution? Well, you got to do everything to get anti inflammatory status right. So you got to go on an anti inflammatory diet, exercise, weight loss, work on sleep, work on sleep, work on stress, and give estradiol and make sure you work on the gut, because you want to make sure that as best you can, that the liver is doing proper detoxification of of hormones, particularly estradiol. And you want to have proper the gut the extra balloon, so that you have beta glucuronidase, you know, functioning properly and not over, not under, and that requires proper gut microbiome. So it's complicated, but giving hormones, giving estradiol and progesterone, will balance out the immune system stimulation in terms of balancing the beta receptor and the Alpha receptor, and you'll lower inflammation. You'll improve gut microbiome status. You'll then estrade high levels of estradiol down regulates the enzyme aromatase. Estradiol down regulates aromatase because the brain, it's the body is designed so that if you have plenty of estradiol, you don't need more. So your aromatase production of function goes down. So giving estradiol will help to reverse estrogen dominance, if you want to call it, which I would say, estrone dominance, okay, instead of just estrogen, because people don't know what estrogen are you talking about. So if it's estrogen dominance, you give estradiol to balance it all out, along with all the lifestyle stuff intensively.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:02
And then I think this is probably along the same answer, what about severe endometriosis? So that's,

Speaker 5  2:33:09
oh, you know, endometriosis. There's very, very limited data. I just was listening to a lecture on this too, and to see about an update. And the data that is on endometriosis and giving estradiol is very poor quality research, so it's very low level, you know, of data. So we have almost nothing on endometriosis. So what I do is, course, the way that you get the worst scenario with endometriosis by having a lot of pelvic inflammation. Okay, so everything we can do to down regulate aromatase in the pelvis, the enzyme, when you have a lot of backflow of endometrial tissue and dead tissue lining, you have that retrograde menstruation, it creates this intense inflammatory response in the pelvis, and the inflammation up regulates aromatase the pelvis, the peritoneum makes estrone locally in the pelvis, and that's what creates the growth factors that feed the growth of the endometrial cells that are still living, that are now getting into the pelvic cavity. So it's complicated, and it's underlined by improper progesterone receptor function, probably from genetics, plus endocrine disruptors like pesticides and so sometimes giving high doses of progesterone can help override progesterone receptor resistance, and part of the way that it's inflammation controlled is through the endocannabinoid system. So this is where CBD can and CBD suppositories and oral CBD can be beneficial to reduce the inflammation. So endometriosis is a really hard one. It is, but it Luckily in menopause, most of the endometriosis kind of burns itself out and but there's very little data and very poor quality data on what happens when you give patients with endometriosis hormone replacement therapy, same thing with fibroids. Very little data. So fibroids is easy. If they really grow, you can always do a hysterectomy. Endometriosis is a different is a different animal. So you got to do everyone individually. And definitely these are the cases where you really have to keep inflammation down, give higher amounts of progesterone, give it vaginally and use CBD.

Bill Clearfield  2:35:24
Okay, what about women who've had ablations?

Speaker 5  2:35:28
They're my favorites, actually, because they don't bleed. I I'm actually thinking that women should have ablations on demand. Women can have facelifts on demand. Why can't they have ablations on demand? Women who've had ablations, you can give them hormones, and you can give them physiologic, cyclic hormones, and they don't bleed, and everyone is so happy. I love ablations,

Bill Clearfield  2:35:50
since you use vaginal progesterone and transdermal estradiol, do you exclusively use saliva to monitor levels?

Unknown Speaker  2:35:59
No, I use blood.

Bill Clearfield  2:36:02
Okay, what about using topical progesterone?

Speaker 5  2:36:05
Well, I want that to be topical progesterone, the only if there's no commercial products for topical progesterone, and that's not because people aren't entrepreneurial, because nobody has succeeded in creating a product that is reliably and dependably absorbed. The progesterone molecule has 21 carbons. Estradiol is really hard to get through the skin. It really is, and you it has 18 carbon molecules. And the bottom line is, progesterone is a very big molecule, and it's not reliably been able to be give, delivered through the skin into the bloodstream. If you can invent it, you'll be a billionaire. We need it.

Bill Clearfield  2:36:44
I keep wanting to invent a bioidentical birth control pill. That's my billionaire dream. Yeah.

Speaker 5  2:36:52
The problem, the reason why isn't there a bioidentical because progesterone has such a short half life compared to the synthetic ones you'd have to dose in order to give enough to give a high enough amount of progesterone to actually suppress ovulation. Whoa, you that's like, pregnancy, okay, pregnancy, the progesterone is high enough to suppress ovulation. That's why you don't get pregnant when you're already pregnant. Okay, that it's the high amounts of progesterone produced in pregnancy that suppresses ovulation. But you can't, you can't do that. We can't give progesterone like that. You'd have to be doing multiple doses all day long to get levels that high. Progesterone levels can be like in pregnancy. Can be like 300 remember, in ovulation, at post ovulation, the levels are like 15, you know? I mean, we can't, we can't dose it high enough to get the levels of progesterone to suppress ovulation. That's why we can't use bioidentical progesterone.

Bill Clearfield  2:37:58
You remember the Wiley protocol, the

Speaker 5  2:38:01
original one? Sure I know it. I know it very well.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:05
800 milligrams of progesterone, 1000 milligrams of progesterone,

Speaker 5  2:38:09
I know. And the same thing with estradiol. The dosing of the Wiley the concept is perfect, the practicality and the dosing is untested, unpublished and crazy. I've had patients who were on it who had levels of estradiol that were like 800 that is not physiologic, okay? And and the progesterone, we just there. It's, I wish we had a progesterone topical some, by the way, somebody took out a patent for a vaginal progesterone ring. I'm waiting to see if that gets produced. Somebody has a patent on it, because that would be easier too.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:45
Don't tell Dr Platt.

Speaker 5  2:38:50
Does he have it? I don't know who has the patent. I just saw that.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:53
No, not that he's got the topical progesterone, you know?

Speaker 5  2:38:57
Oh well, progesterone topically is just not reliable. I'm not saying it doesn't get absorbed, but you it's just not reliable enough. I do use topical progesterone in women who've had a hysterectomy, because I care less about it being perfect, I just, I'll monitor them. I'm giving it to them, but if they hate, if they just hate, having vaginal progesterone, you can also give it rectally, but they don't want so I can cheat a little bit, and women who've had a hysterectomy, I can give them high doses. I can monitor, but I don't have to worry about bleeding like or getting cancer or, you know, hyperplacement.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:32
What about breast tenderness? Would you use topical progesterone on the breast tissue?

Unknown Speaker  2:39:37
Some people have done that. I have not.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:41
How about there's a question of a fourth type of estrogen for a birth control pill?

Speaker 5  2:39:46
Yeah, it's already out. So in the fetal liver, the fetal liver makes estatal. Estatal, it's a fetal produced liver estrogen only exists in the fetus for a very short period of time, it's a week. It's a weak estrogen. In other words, it binds loosely to the receptors. It's not like a powerful binder, and it only acts on one part of the Alpha receptor, but it's the part of the Alpha receptor that is not the one that's activated in breast cancer. So there is research that estatal may be used as an estrogen in women with breast cancer, just even, like just diagnose breast cancer, because it cannot activate the Alpha receptor. Type, alpha is not just one receptors. Is alpha. This type like alpha A and alpha B, and it only activates alpha B, and alpha A is the one that's breast cancer involved. So but the thing is that it's actually in a birth control pill called nextelis, for no obvious reason. Then you can do it. They learned how to I mean, it's a fetal estrogen. It's never, ever, ever in a human adult, ever, but you can make it, you can sell it, I don't under other than the possibility that it may have some use in some things like maybe some breast cancers. But why it's in a birth control pill is beyond me, except that you can do it, okay? Well, they're also going to use it for menopause too. Yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:41:27
I think that's about everything. There's maybe,

Speaker 5  2:41:30
oh, I was going to ask answer about bias, 5050, so I forgot that one so I would never use bias. Estriol does not protect the bones. Estriol is a weak estrogen that binds predominantly to the beta receptor, which isn't a bad thing. We love beta. We love alpha. We just want everything at the right time, in the right place, in the right amount, so we there's no human being that ever in their life has biased in their body. I mean, like, what are you trying to do? What it was your end game, what you get, usually, too little estradiol. And what is this estriol supposed to be there for? You know, we have estriol always. Estriol is made from estradiol. All estradiol in all estriol in the body is derived from all estriol is derived from estradiol, and the body will make estriol as it is needed from estradiol, if you make things right, okay, so I'm not against estriol, and estriol is the dominant estrogen of pregnancy. The last thing I'd want is to try to recreate pregnancy. Pregnancy is a high risk situation. I'm not trying to recreate pregnancy and estriol, by activating predominantly the beta receptor, down regulates the Alpha receptor, which is good in pregnancy. You know, because you can't you it's part of the way that you prevent the immune system of the mother from killing the fetus. You know, because you're down regulating the Alpha receptors, which are what they down regulate. You know, in some of the immune modulator drugs for autoimmune diseases, why many autoimmune diseases like multiple sclerosis will go into remission, but you're also making women, just like with the immune modulators, more prone to having a severe outcome from an infection. That's why pregnant women are more likely to have bad outcomes from covid or flu or chicken pox. Well, that's the last thing we want to do to our menopausal women, is make them less capable of dealing with an infection by down regulating their immune system like an immune modulator. Have all the warnings, like you could get a fatal infection or something. So why are we messing with stuff that's too that's too micromanaging thinking that you should micromanage receptors. Just give estradiol and let the body manage its own estriol production. And if someone has, by the way, estradiol, there's data that estradiol can cause breast cancer cells to kill themselves, to have apoptosis. Estradiol is actually beneficial for breast cancer. There's even data that you can give estradiol to women who've had breast cancer, who have now resistance to some of the different drugs, and estradiol will cause breast cancer cells to die. So I mean, so don't think estradiol is bad. Estradiol is wonderful, and it's not pro breast cancer. It's anti breast cancer. Estriol is great, but we just don't need to pump it into post menopausal women, my opinion.

Speaker 2  2:44:35
Yeah, that is all that's true. Estriol, I think, was one of the thing, the claim to fame was autoimmune protection. I was founded in I think Ms is that the study, I think that's where, well,

Speaker 5  2:44:49
there, if you're treating menopause, then that's one thing. If you're treating ms, then that's another thing. So, you know, there may be a role for estriol, for different disease states as a drug, but I'm talking about menopause, right?

Speaker 2  2:45:03
That's right. So go to Yeah, yeah, and so many things about estrogen. I think, Dr Felicia, we know you really love the topic. The passion is so there. And we could go on and on the whole night for this, but we definitely appreciate your time joining us tonight, and hopefully we can get you back. So I

Speaker 5  2:45:23
think I would love that. Yeah, I love working with your group, you know. And you know, sometimes I feel homeless because I, I don't, I don't fit in with the regular OBGYN like I don't go to ACOG because I shun them because they were so nasty after the Women's Health Initiative. So, I know, at least I feel like, you know, I'm sort of an adopted person into your group. So it's oh

Speaker 2  2:45:46
no, no, there's always a home for like minded people like you. So this is the group where you want to be and be rubbing elbows with for sure. To all of you. Thank you. Dr Felicia Gersh, and again, we'll have you next time around. So just get ready for that call. Thank you. Alright, so for everyone, we will have our again. I don't have the details for our next speaker for next week, but for sure, it's going to be a good one, and that will be all for tonight. Thank you for joining us, 41 people, I still need you for being here. Dr, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  2:46:23
Yep, yeah, I don't know. I'm on my phone now my my

Unknown Speaker  2:46:28
computer. Bill for your

Bill Clearfield  2:46:30
computer dropped out. So yeah, much than I paid the bill.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:34
All right, okay, just jumped off with Dr, okay, great.

Speaker 4  2:46:38
Great show, great Clearfield show every Tuesday,

Bill Clearfield  2:46:42
every Tuesday. And it was great seeing you guys in Florida. So I want you to Vegas. Yes, in Vegas, I want, I want clear instructions on how and how to do that. The one arm. Pull up. I want to, I want to. I want to. I want to mimic mom. Well, I don't know if she does one arm. She does a hang or whatever it is, okay, because by the time next time I see you live, I want to be able to do it to perfect, to perfection. Oh, sure, we'll try. I'm no halasa.

Speaker 4  2:47:17
Oh yeah, yeah, that's right. You got to put him to shame come to my gym and do a proper workout.

Bill Clearfield  2:47:23
Yeah, because I think I'm a lot older than him. So good,

Unknown Speaker  2:47:29
your body fat percentage is pretty good.

Bill Clearfield  2:47:33
They had to be a lot higher weight than when I got home. I was still I was the same as when I left. Was six pounds later. So I don't know, middle of the day or something there. And you don't know, they have 9 million people jumping on that thing, you know, all at once.

Speaker 4  2:47:48
So that's right, it was a little heavier, but your body fair percentage wasn't, wasn't too far.

Bill Clearfield  2:47:55
All right, yeah, so I want, I want some instruction on, on on how it's done. So I'm going to practice. I'm going to make you I'm going to make you proud.

Speaker 4  2:48:05
Alright, can't wait, okay, alright, well,

Bill Clearfield  2:48:09
sorry about my computer conked out everybody, whoever's left, and we'll get the video up and we'll see you again next week, and we'll take it from there. It was good seeing everybody this weekend.

Speaker 4  2:48:22
Yeah, that was fun, guys, good seeing you in Vegas. That was fun. Okay, alright,

Bill Clearfield  2:48:26
we'll see you again next week, and then have a good holiday season, right? Okay, bye, bye. Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai