Unknown Speaker  00:36
Hi, there Yes,

Bill Clearfield  00:39
best looking guy This side of the Pecos.

Unknown Speaker  00:43
Good to see you.

Bill Clearfield  00:44
Good to see you, too. Up to anything exciting this summer?

Unknown Speaker  00:59
There we go. I

Bill Clearfield  01:04
Anything exciting going on this summer?

Speaker 1  01:07
Yeah, let's see. Let me get you. Want me to click Slide screen? Share Now, Bill or wait until a little

Bill Clearfield  01:14
later. Oh, we can wait. We want to see your, we want to see your, your your pretty face. So what do you been up to this summer? Anything exciting?

Speaker 1  01:26
I just returned from radfest in Las Vegas, life extension conference, where I gave a presentation. And there's a lot of really exciting things happening in life extension, anti aging and regenerative medicine.

Bill Clearfield  01:41
How's rapamycin going? Is it? Is it still in the rise, or is it the been pulled

Speaker 1  01:47
back? One bad thing happened is that the Trump tariffs resulted in international anti aging systems to discontinue shipping their rap, a pro product, to the United States, and that was a really reasonable price, and people could go online and buy it without a prescription, and that has been eliminated due to Trump's tariffs. So now you got to have a functional medicine doc that'll write a prescription for you, or a lot of people just lend my book, or give my book to their doctor so they can get educated about it, and hopefully the doctor write a prescription. But turns out a lot of doctors have practice guidelines in the group practice they're in that just don't allow them any flexibility to do an offer.

Bill Clearfield  02:35
I was, I was in one of those groups at one time. Welcome to the free world we gave I gave it up. Yeah. So, yeah, that that that didn't fly. So what was there any fallout from that? Who was that big guy, who was an influencer, or was sort of said, well, I took it for six years.

Speaker 1  02:57
John Brian Johnson, yeah, yeah. I don't know. You know he's there's been a lot of media about that. One thing I emphasize is biochemical individuality. Everybody's different so, but he certainly has the money to spend on a lot of testing, and it wasn't working for him. So if

Bill Clearfield  03:19
it's not working for him, it's not going to work for anybody,

Speaker 1  03:22
right? Mm, anybody, right? Well, I don't know about that. I'm still taking it well, was that's sort of the attitude, correct? Yeah, yeah, right.

Bill Clearfield  03:31
So, so my, my right hand man, is, is back. There's Joel's back. He's been, he's been under the weather for the last Cody. Are you alright, Joe are you up to being a co host or no? Dr Nario, can do it.

Unknown Speaker  03:48
Yeah, you're muted. Muted.

Bill Clearfield  03:53
You're muted. Joe,

Unknown Speaker  03:58
can't hear you. Can you hear me now?

Bill Clearfield  04:02
There it is. You have to be a co host or not. You betcha. Yeah, you betcha. Okay, all right, because we've had Dr Nario taking your place there, but you know, oh, wait, I got the wrong person.

Speaker 2  04:17
Okay, good to hear and see from you again. Doctor del

Speaker 1  04:21
Thank you. Good to see you, and thanks for your interest in being on board

Speaker 2  04:26
that. Looking forward to it, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  04:32
Okay, Hi, Joe. I think I got you as co host, and we'll get Dr Nario one also when he gets

Speaker 2  04:38
looks like you looks like you've got Elizabeth so as co

Bill Clearfield  04:42
host, yeah, okay, that's what I get for not using my glasses. So, amen. I was, they were, they were, they were a big hit at the So Ross, I was at the androgen society. Ah, Doctor. What's his name? The, the big shot the, the I got you as a co host, the Morgan teller, oh yeah, yeah, and a couple of others there, and Rebecca Glazer, who wrote all those papers on, uh, testosterone pellets. So it gave me, I didn't know what they I saw a thing they said, Do you want to present? And I sent it in. And they, they, they accepted it. And what I did not realize until afterwards was that it was for an abstract. They gave me five minutes, but I went anyway. I figured it's a start. Yeah, yeah, you bet was my five minutes of fame. So they know who I am now, because they have because I'm wearing pink glasses in their program, I went to pink glasses, so let's see Joe make co host, all right, I think I got it right. Finally, I only took, took three tries, and darker, narrow,

Unknown Speaker  06:15
I'll make you Yeah, you got it right. I'm

Bill Clearfield  06:17
in there. And Dr Nario also, yep, so, yeah. So we, we've been getting anywhere from 40 to 70 a week, you know, depends on the, depends on the, I guess, the weather, you know. And, you know, cookouts and whatever, I don't know, so, but pretty

Speaker 1  06:41
Las Vegas a week ago was 110 every day.

Bill Clearfield  06:45
Oh, I gotta go on Thursday. So, yeah, 110 that's luxury. You barely need to turn the air conditioning on. Well, I'm in Phoenix. It's 115 right now.

Unknown Speaker  06:58
Whoa.

Bill Clearfield  07:00
Well, Dr Quinn, when Dr Quinn's on if he's not wearing a shirt, do we know it's over 110 in Vegas So, and he shows up so surprised

Unknown Speaker  07:09
you don't have your thong on.

Bill Clearfield  07:12
Well, you know, we still have some a little bit of modesty there. So,

Speaker 3  07:17
Dr Bill, what's going on with the osteopaths in Las Vegas, I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  07:24
Oh, I thought, oh,

Bill Clearfield  07:27
Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association, it's their summer. Yes. Are you going there? Yeah, I'm going, I'm doing my laboratory of functional medicine.

Speaker 3  07:40
That's what I thought. Yeah, Dr Fong is over there. He said,

Bill Clearfield  07:43
Yeah, yeah. He always runs the show. And Victor Klausner, he's, he's, he's one of us now. He's one of my students, and he's there. In fact, I think he was president of the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association after Bruce. Okay, yeah, so they're, they do actually, Wednesday to Saturday, but I don't, my attention span isn't that long. So that's most of what they have to offer is, you know, the the straight as, as, as Ross was saying there, you know, the straight down, the straight and narrow, and they have no flexibility, and no, you know. So not, not that interested. So normally I do, on Friday morning, I do a or here's Dr Quinn, we'll see if he's got a shirt on or not. Normally, I do a, like, a workshop for, like, for three hours, and I'll do, like, a whole, you know, women's, you know, menopause, or I'll do, you know, Introduction to male hormones. But I get two, I get two people sitting there listening to me, and that's a lot of work. At

Unknown Speaker  09:00
least there's something. Well, usually

Bill Clearfield  09:03
what I do is I use that as my that's what I practice. That's my practice run, because I'll be doing the same thing at the age management medical Do you ever go to that one cross age management medical group?

Unknown Speaker  09:16
So know that one, but I like to get connected to them. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:18
they're They're good guys. They're, they've been around for 30 some years.

Speaker 1  09:25
Wow, surprised I haven't heard them. Yeah, send me a link something. I'll

Bill Clearfield  09:30
send you. I'll send you their, their links. Fact, you know what? I'll put it in the chat. When you when you other guys. So, so it's

Speaker 4  09:48
before you get started. Dr Pelton, yeah, do you have any experience of using the rapamycin with somebody has sarcoid or neurosarcoidosis,

Speaker 1  10:04
I do not, okay, no, haven't heard of that at all. I mean, all right, I had seen

Speaker 4  10:13
that it had that interleukin six, and I think was interleukin two or 12 were important in sarcoidosis. And I thought rapid rapamycin may have a contributory inhibiting effect on those. Yeah,

Speaker 1  10:29
I don't know, but when you start taking rapamycin, every cell in your body starts to work better, get more detoxification. And it's, I think, that one of the most critical things in accelerated aging for humans is being out of balance in the mTOR autophagy ratio.

Speaker 4  10:52
All right, well, I'll look at it again, see what I can find. It's just curious.

Speaker 1  10:57
Thanks. Send me an email. I'll do a little looking myself. See if I can find anything. All right, do you want to my email is Ross Pelton, seven zero@gmail.com

Bill Clearfield  11:13
Okay, to put that in the chat. Ross, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  11:21
So your full name seventy@gmail.com

Bill Clearfield  11:24
Yeah, all right. There it is.

Unknown Speaker  11:26
Thanks, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  11:29
Okay, so Ross, we always start out with Dr Nario. He's taking Dr Andrew Wiles integrative medicine course down in in where is that? Arizona. Yes, Arizona, where it's hot, and so he always gives us a tip of the week. Yeah, this this way. This is the way. This is the way I get out of having to go take the class myself.

Unknown Speaker  12:00
Pays me a

Bill Clearfield  12:01
lot. Pays me a lot of time and money, so otherwise, I'd have to do it myself. So what do you got for us this week? Dr Nario, alright, so Well,

Speaker 3  12:13
it's more of a clinical aspect this time around. So I know, have you ever been puzzled by a patient who is cholesterol just won't budge, despite all the lifestyle changes, reduce rice, bur brain and even low dose statins that we give Well, let me share a clinical insight that often gets overlooked. You might be testing lipids at a wrong time, and that mistake can throw off your entire game plan. When someone is acutely sick, for example, with COVID, the flu, or even a mild infection, their lipid panel has changed dramatically. So to be more specific, LDL and HDL can drop to be around 10 to 30% and triglycerides can rise up 10 to 50% why inflammatory cytokines like il six tells the liver to make immune proteins such as CRP fibrinogen, instead of lipids, and even the liver up regulates LDL receptors, pulling LDL out of the blood, and so triglycerides rise because increased bldl output is happening in suppressed lipoprotein lipase and stress hormones like cortisol, driving fat breakdown without the clearance. So let's look at our favorite virus, COVID-19. And during the acute phase of this, studies like chain et al, it was in clinical chemistry, 2005 showed dramatic drops in LDL and HDL. But post COVID, we see the opposite. Wang et al, 2023 found persistent dyslipidemia, even in people without diabetes or obesity, a sign of long term metabolic and endothelial disruption. So what if you tested your patients right after recovering from COVID or another viral illness, you might be chasing numbers that don't reflect their real baseline. So on the flip side, if you're seeing elevated LDL and triglycerides. Think chronic inflammation, like sinusitis, chronic ones, periodontal disease, hepatitis C and Nash, even undiagnosed insulin resistance, call can all drive high HDL now and triglycerides opposite of what acute presents and added the medication like steroids, and now you're really going to misdeed all your labs. So here's the clinical Pearl, don't test lipids during or right after illness. Wait for four to six weeks post recovery or an acute for an acute read or accurate read. And if lipids are stubbornly high, stop throwing stands. Start looking for inflammation, hormones or hidden infections, because sometimes the cholesterol isn't the problem, it's the signal. So that's our Andrew Ellen Tip of the Week.

Bill Clearfield  14:50
There you go. Thank you so much. Okay, so a First off, I'm going to introduce our speaker tonight, Ross Pelton. He's been with us before, but I want no one has yet commented on the fact that, with the new logo that this, I corrected all the spelling errors. It took four weeks for you for someone to even mention that they were there. And I knew that they were there when it, when I when we originally drew it. I wanted to see how long it would take for somebody to say it took four weeks, but I corrected spelling errors now, so I hope everyone's happy. So tonight we have a return. We have Ross Pelton, who's one of my favorite speakers. He's He's as we call as he calls himself a recovering pharmacist. We're going to be talking about utilizing membrane lipid replacement, to repair, replace, renew cellular and mitochondrial membranes and increase ATP production. I got, I got any I got a text message. Great job correcting the spelling. Thank you. Okay. Ross has more than 30 years of research and scientific experience, and he's turned his passion for educating people about their health and life extension into a legacy for 1000s of clients around the world. He's currently the scientific director for essential formulas based in Dallas, Texas. He's an expert on pharmaceutical drugs and life altering side effects. He's a certified clinical nutritionist. He counsels clients on diet, nutrition, natural therapies for a wide range of issues. As a health professional, he helps clients and other health care professionals utilize and integrate natural therapies and life extension technologies into their lives and our practices. He tackles tough subjects like natural therapies for depression and anxiety, at ADD and ADHD preventing side effects of birth control pills and natural therapies for sleep. He covers a myriad of topics and speaks frankly about what you need to do naturally to take charge of your life. They would not have liked you. At the androgen society, they're all strictly by the book. There. There's no such thing as an herbal remedy that that works for pretty much anything. He began his career in health sciences. Graduated from University of Wisconsin, School of Pharmacy in 1966 Wow, he was a pharmacist for a number of years. He joined the Peace Corps in 1972 he taught high school chemistry for two years in Malaysia, and he closely observed the village shamans and native healing arts in Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia. He began doing research in cancer at the University of California, San Diego, with a DR Gerhard trouser. I hope I said that right. And the relationship between selenium and breast cancer, they added trace amounts of Selenium to the drinking water of mice and 85% of the control mice developed mammary tumors while less than 15%, received trace amounts of selenium developed tumors have you followed that up at all.

Speaker 1  17:57
I'm still a big proponent of trace mineral selenium. Dr. shrauser died, and I.

Bill Clearfield  18:04
in charge of the mouse colony, and I had to take the mice and grab them by the neck and wrap their tail around my finger and immobilize them and take a glass pipette and scrape it in their eye and cause their eye to bleed, to suck blood out for blood samples, and it was driving me crazy, just torturing these that doesn't sound like fun, and so I quit. That's not a fun job. But any follow up on selenium for

Speaker 1  18:33
Yeah, Selenium still has a great profile for a lot of things. There's a lot of research about low levels of selenium being associated with increased risk to prostate cancer and lots of age related diseases are somewhat associated with low selenium levels. And one of the problems is that most of the soils in America are depleted of selenium because of factory farming and no crop rotations and all that sort of stuff. So it's something that I think everybody could, or most people could benefit from just doing like one part per million of selenium a day is a great way to get your Selenium supplemented and very little cost involved.

Bill Clearfield  19:17
And it says in here in your biographies, Selenium could result 70% reduction in

Speaker 1  19:24
breast cancer. This is in mice. Yeah, the C 3h mice are bred to develop breast cancer. So we use those mice and divide them into two groups. And one group got trace amounts of selenium in the drinking water, and the other was controls. And 85% mammary tumors developing in the placebo group, and 15% in the Selenium group, so 70% reduction in mammary tumors with just trace amounts of

Bill Clearfield  19:51
selenium. Was there never, ever any follow up on that in any human studies?

Speaker 1  19:56
No. I mean, I quit that program, and I just continue to keep an eye on selenium, but I haven't done any follow up on the research,

Bill Clearfield  20:04
actually. Well, you know, none of us are getting any younger. I think, you know, we need a legacy here. Okay, I see Dr Quinn's got a shirt on, so it's got to be, it can't be more than 110 in Vegas. Ross in 1988 Ross and his wife, Taffy, moved to Baja, New Mexico. He became a hospital administrator, one of the largest hospitals specializing in alternative cancers. He was a he was a consultant at the Gerson Institute. I we were talking earlier, Dr pelt, Dr Ross, about straight as an arrow, you know, versus expanding your horizons. I actually sent a patient to the Gerson Institute from Northeast Pennsylvania. I think it was in 1991 I was in a group of 52 doctors, and they, they threatened to kick me out. I was put on double secret probation because of that. That was, that was against their their, you know, Mantra, so give them, give them CIS platinum and kill them in six months. That's that was a better

Unknown Speaker  21:09
that was better solution than die from cancer

Bill Clearfield  21:13
in 1994 Ross became a certified clinical nutritionist. He teaches two weekend seminars for health professionals who aspire to pass the exam and become certified clinical nutritionist. Ross has authored many books. The drug induced nutrient depletion handbook is one of mine that I that sits right here on my desk that I use all the time. Nutritional cost of drugs, natural therapeutics, alternatives in cancer, mind, food and spark pills. Ross is an educator. He's been with us a couple of times, and he's going to enlighten us tonight on utilizing membrane lipid replacement. So I give everybody. I'll give you. Ross Pelton and

Speaker 1  21:59
thank you, thanks, Bill for that introduction, and glad you're all on to share a little time with me this evening, before I get started on my topic for the evening, I'm gonna toss out a couple things that are popped into my mind as Bill was doing my introduction. Any of you can get a free copy of my drug induced nutrient depletion guide by just sending an email to natural pharmacist.net. Forward slash d, I n, d, which drug induced nutrient depletions. And I'll send this to Bill, and you can post it in the show notes. Bill. So another thing I've recently gotten very passionate about, and this is somewhat of a controversial topic, but I want to toss it out. I've gotten really interested in the pandemic and how I think it was mishandled, and the vaccines that had been developed, which I think are very harmful. And so there's two books that have been published. One is called canary in a COVID world. A second volume is called canary in a post COVID world. I got so impressed by these books. And there's 34 chapters in volume 137, chapters in Volume Two, every chapter is written by a different individual that heard had the courage to speak out about these issues. It's fascinating reading, it's good science, and it's pretty disturbing, but I encourage everybody to read these books and what I went I got in touch with the publisher and got the publisher's permission to reproduce and distribute four of the chapters from these books, and so this is a good way to get introduced to the the topics in these books. And I went and wrote a book review or a review of these two books, and my book review has been published in health freedom news, which is a magazine produced by the National Health Federation. And then my book review has also been published in two medical journals, the Townsend letter and also integrative medicine, peer reviewed medical journal. So I'm just trying to get the word out and draw attention to these issues. So I'll send my book review to bill so he can post it in the show notes. You can all have access to this and in my book review, I have the hyperlinks to the four individual chapters that I've been authorized to distribute. So that's that topic. Now let me get into tonight's topic and share my screen here.

Speaker 1  24:58
So little background and history about this topic of membrane membrane lipid replacement, using membrane lipid replacement to repair, replace and renew cellular and mitochondrial membranes throughout your body, and of course, mitochondria where your energy produced. So this results in significant increased production of mitochondrial ATP, a friend of mine introduced me to this topic and these products a couple of years ago, and I dove into the science. And after I got exposed to this, there's no way I could not get involved. It's just such important information. So for the last couple of years, I've been increasingly getting involved with these products and starting to publicize the availability of the science that explains and supports and documents these products in the screen here on this first slide, I'm mentioning that there's over 60 publications on these products that I'm going to be talking about tonight. So it's well documented with good science. And if you go to the website, there NT factor.com, forward slash research, all 60 plus publications are listed there, and they all have hyperlink, so you can click on any one of the studies and and take the hyperlink takes you the whole study, so you've got access to all the science. So I think that using membrane lipid replacement to repair and renew mitochondrial membranes, and although this is for all cellular membranes throughout your body, I'm going to really focus on mitochondrial membrane, because your mitochondria are so critically important for your aging process. So I think this is really a revolutionary breakthrough in anti aging, life extension and regenerative medicine. So my key topics tonight, I'm going to dive into mitochondria and the mitochondrial theory of aging a little bit. I'm sure you're all familiar with a lot of this information. I'll talk about the architectural structure of cell walls and cellular membranes, and then I'll talk about phosphoglycolipids, which are the primary architectural structure of cellular membranes throughout the body. And then I'll talk about using these products, patented high potency phospholipids delivered to the body, sourced from around the world, non GMO, European standards, and protected with antioxidants and fructo oligosaccharide. So that's the products that I'm going to be talking about to begin with, I want to just cover a few things about mitochondria. 90% of our human energies generated the mitochondria, and there's some fascinating topic, things about mitochondria I wasn't really aware of until I started diving into this research a little bit, approximately 37 trillion sale cells in the adult human you've got an average of one to 2000 mitochondria per cell in your body, and cardiomyocytes the your heart is the most energy demanding muscle in the body, anywhere from 5000 to 8000 mitochondria per cell in the heart muscles. And so approximately 10% of a human's body weight are mitochondria. You got a lot of mitochondria, and as they start to age and dysfunction, that's one of the key factors of biological aging. So in 1956 denim Harmon published the free radical theory of aging. Really sent shockwave through the medical and health communities, and it became a very famous and well regarded paper. And then 1978 he kind of evolved the free radical theory of aging into the mitochondrial free radical theory of aging. And the mitochondrial free radical theory of aging states that increasing free radical damage to mitochondria and decline of mitochondrial energy production are key hallmarks of biological aging. So that's the main thing I'm going to be focusing on this evening. And one thing a lot of people don't realize is that our greatest source of exposure to free radicals every single day of our lives is the free radicals that are generated in mitochondria during the process of energy production, though, this is how and why mitochondria get damaged over time, because energy production results in electrons leaking and free radical damage. I'm going to take a closer look now and discuss the architectural structure of cell walls and cell membranes throughout the body. It's called a lipid bilayer, and the primary ingredients or architectural structures, are phospholipids, also referred to as glycerophospholipids and on this image of the cell membrane, the rust colored sections are the phospholipid bilayer. And so I do the analogy that these phospholipids in cellular membranes are like the two by fours and the two by sixes in the wood structure in a house, they provide the architectural structure for cellular membranes. And just like the wood in a house over time, it can get damaged. You can get water damage and termites and all sorts of things happening over time. So that's what happens in cellular membranes over time, these Fauci lipids start to get damaged. So here's the an image showing the structure of these phospholipids. You've got the phosphate group on top and the glycerol part of the molecule, and those are hydrophilic, and then the hydrophobic section down below are different types of fats, and so you can see that there's two legs, so to speak, on the phospholipid one is a saturated fat and the other is an unsaturated fat. And it's that unsaturated fat in the structure of phospholipids that's an area that's susceptible to free radical damage, and free radicals attack, or more likely to attack unsaturated fatty acids at the double bond point. And so that's what happens over time. That's why these phospholipids in your cellular membranes start to age. It's primarily due to free radical damage at the unsaturated fatty acid arm in the phospholipids. So membrane lipid replacement is supplying concentrated phospholipids for an individual to take orally. These unsaturated fatty acids undergo oxidative data, as as I mentioned, but we're supplying people with a concentrated dose of healthy, non oxidized plant phospholipids. And so the results are the benefits of this therapy. It restores the structure and the function of cellular and mitochondrial membranes throughout your body results in significant increases in the production of mitochondrial ATP, and it's actually slowing down and reversing one of the key hallmarks of biological aging. So I think this is really a big deal, and people really notice this. And I'll go through the scientific some of the scientific studies and show you the results that people get taking this product. Just on this slide, I'm bringing your attention to Garth Nicholson, who's a PhD Chief Scientific Advisor for nutritional therapeutics. He's got quite a background and quite a scientific history in 1972 Nicholson, along with singer, published a study titled the fluid mosaic model of the structure of cell membrane. This is becoming a classic paper, and it still to this day, remains the accepted model for cellular membranes. Nicholson received a nomination for the Nobel Prize for this work. He didn't receive the Nobel Prize, but he received the nomination. And scholar GPS is an international service that ranks scientists around the world in many different areas. Scholar DPS ranks Nicholson is the number one scientist in the world in cell membrane science and research, and he's got over 700 scientific and medical publications, and over 40 of his publications are on membrane lipid replacement. So he is really the key scientist that has done the studies that documents

Unknown Speaker  33:59
this program.

Speaker 1  34:02
In the bottom of this slide here, I'm bringing your attention to a recent, the most recent paper by Nicholson, published in Nature, cell science. You can see that was 2024 just last year. And I hope you'll all access this paper and read it. The title here membrane lipid replacement and its role in restoring mitochondrial membrane function and reducing symptoms in aging and age related clinical conditions. So this really goes through the whole science of how this works, why it works, and the benefits that people get. So it's a really great review paper, paper for people to read. Okay, here's some of the studies. This study is titled reversal of age related mitochondrial functional loss with membrane liquid lipid replacement So at time zero test subjects average age 69.5 years. So essentially 70 year old people started taking membrane lipid replacement. And you can see in the left hand scale, the bar graphs are measuring mitochondrial energy production. After eight weeks, they gained mitochondrial energy production that took them up to a level that's equivalent to healthy adults about 29 years old. So really significant, noticeable increases in mitochondrial energy production in just eight weeks, and the references are on the bottom here. In this slide, I'm introducing you to rhodamine dye, which is used in the pharmaceutical industry quite a bit. It's a fluorescent dye, and it can be taken up in healthy cells, and it has a green fluorescence, but it cannot be taken up into damaged mitochondrial membranes. The damaged mitochondrial membranes don't have the energy to make this dye fluoresce, and so you can see in a damaged mitochondrial membrane there, there's almost no green color visible. But in a healthier cell, you've got the very noticeable fluorescence in this mitochondrial cell membrane. They use this dye to document the benefit of people taking these products, they can expose their cells to the rhodamine dye before they've started taking the membrane lipid replacement products, and they see that there's very little fluorescent green fluorescence. And then, after a period of time, a couple of months, they again expose some of their cells to the rhodamine dye, and they can visually see and record the increased function of the mitochondrial membranes, as evidenced by the fluorescent dye the images on the right hand side of the screen is showing the top images showing that over time, damaged mitochondria actually have physical damage and changes in the shape of the cell membranes, and down on the bottom right is a healthy cell that's been protected with membrane lipid replacement. It's maintaining its structure so your cell membranes throughout your body, and especially mitochondrial membrane. Those membranes have to be functioning for nutrients to be absorbed across the membranes into the cells, so the cells can utilize these nutrients to do whatever work they need to do. So they did studies with membrane lipid replacement and showing that they increase the bio ability of different difficult to absorb nutrients, co Q 10, curcumin, quercetin, are some of the ones that were looked at, and this study documented that membrane lipid replacement, in combination with Coenzyme Q 10, doubled the absorption and the plasma level of CO Q 10. And CO Q 10 is such a critical nutrient for both energy production and as a fat soluble antioxidant to help suppress some of the free radical damage that happens from electron leakage in mitochondria. This is really a big story, being able to double the absorption of Coenzyme Q 10. A lot of the studies on membrane lipid replacement are related to fatigue, because when you improve mitochondrial function, when the main things that happen is more energy and decreasing levels of fatigue. The Piper fatigue scale is commonly used to measure fatigue, number of questions that people are asked on a usually weekly basis. So here you can see, after 30 days, a significant drop in their fatigue scores. 60 days, another significant drop. So just showing that 30 to 60 days, there really are documented decreases in fatigue and increases in energy levels. This is a summary of a number of clinical trials, different people. The first one aged individuals age 70. People with fatigue, average age 50.3 years. Next column, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia syndrome. Average age there, 44.8 and in the general fatigue population, 57 was the average age in highlighted in red, I'm showing the reductions in fatigue in the Piper fatigue scale rating. And you can see down at the bottom there 37% reduction in fatigue in just one week. So this stuff really does work. Piper fatigue score also measures a number of other factors, and so this is just documenting that there's improvements in cognitive functions and mood disorders, behavior, effective, meaning, meaning, I guess, expression of emotions and sensory, smell and hearing. I'll get back to hearing in a slide a little bit later, and emphasize that a little bit more and just general overall fatigue, all of these areas improve significantly with membrane lipid replacement therapy. This study is looking at homocysteine and fasting insulin levels, and it's a six month study, and after six months, the left hand image 32% reduction in homocysteine. So you're lowering homocysteine and reducing cardiovascular levels, cardiovascular risk levels, and it lowered homocysteine levels from dangerous levels back into a safe level. And the right hand image here is the lowering fastening insulin six month study. 59% reduction in fasting insulin so you're really lowering all cause mortality significantly by getting a pretty dramatic reduction in fasting insulin levels. This is a fascinating study that I'm going to discuss next. It was done with veterans from the Gulf War who were exposed to significant amounts of chemical, biological and environmental toxins. The lives of these veterans were ruined. They were significantly damaged, and so Gulf, excuse me. Nicholson I highlighted earlier is the lead author and the participants here the Gulf War veterans took six grams per day for six months, and they assessed benefits by looking at a symptom severity form. There were over 100 symptoms, and they kind of categorized these into 22 symptom categories. And the veterans would rate each of these symptoms on a score of zero to 10, and the symptoms are self reported at two weeks, the end of the first month, at the end of three months and the end of six Months. So these veterans who got their lives back. Here's the improvements that they got, heart, nose and throat, breathing, neurological symptoms, sleep problems, fatigue, hair, skin, urinary problems, oral cavity, balance, eye, vision, senses, auditory problems, joint aches, muscles, allergies, infections, gi problem, pain, genital problems, chemical seven, sensitivities,

Speaker 1  43:30
all these problems majorly improved and in many cases, resolved for these veterans within six months of being on the membrane lipid replacement therapy. And one of the other things we learned from this study is that these lipids, the the membrane lipid replacement you're supplying the phospholipid they absorb, hydrophobic, excuse me, is high remove. It's supposed to be hydrophilic. It's got a type of there. It's fat soluble. Toxins from the body, your toxins are fat soluble. They get stored in the body. This therapy, typically, is removing a lot of these different top toxins that these veterans got exposed to. The other thing we learned from this gulf war study is that the normal dose is recommended to be about an eighth of a teaspoon. The Gulf War veterans started at that dose and really weren't making much progress. So Dr Nicholson dramatically increased the dose from an eighth of a teaspoon up to six grams, a little bit more than a teaspoon. So this is a huge increase in dosage. But then significant improvements started to happen pretty quickly. Within three months, they were all making major improvements, and at the end of six months, a lot of these things had been resolved. If you go to the study, I've got the reference down below. They've got graphs on each one of these symptoms showing how much they improved and over what time scale or improved in the six month period. Comment about age related hearing loss and a study that was conducted, I'm certainly suffering from age related hearing loss myself, and it's one of the really frustrating things about aging. If you're experiencing it. The they did a study influence of membrane lipid replacement therapy and mitochondrial function, DNA damage and age related hearing loss. This is study done on mice. Now excuse me. On rats. Took my rats and divided into two groups and for six months is either the placebo group or the membrane lipid replacement group. They measured hearing sensitivity, mitochondrial function and mitochondrial DNA damage significantly slowed age related hearing loss, preserved the hearing in the mice being treated protected mitochondrial function. Treated rats retain stronger mitochondrial function and sustained cellular energy production and reduced DNA damage. So this is actually slowing down, one of the primary hallmarks of aging, increased DNA damage over time. There's the reference for that study. So just summarizing some of the results here with these membrane replacement therapy products, people get improved mitochondrial function, improved cognitive function, improve cellular detoxification, increase nutrient absorption, slows down the process of biological aging, removes lipophilic toxins. People get more energy. It's really quite noticeable, and you're increasing not just lifespan, but also health span. The membrane lipid replacement is a scientific term. And all the scientific studies where you can't be commercial, they talk about membrane lipid replacement. But here's the products that are marketed by nutritional therapeutics, NT factor, lipids, is the name of the products.

Bill Clearfield  47:46
And hang on, Ross,

Unknown Speaker  47:48
hang on, yup.

Speaker 1  47:51
Okay, go ahead. Now you can Alright, thanks. So this is the name of the company and the name of the products. They've got a whole line of products. This is not all of them. Thanks for stopping there, Bill while I explain where people can get this and so non GMO materials and ingredients, no added sugar, no herb stimulants or caffeine, halal certified and GLP manufacturing practices are adhered to. So I think this is a real game changer for life extension, anti aging and regenerative medicine. Virtually every adult alive can benefit by slowing down mitochondrial decline and actually improving mitochondrial function. And again, I mentioned all the science is available on this website. And just going to highlight a couple products here. This is the NT factor, bulk lipid powder, 150 grams. It actually comes in two sizes, 75 grams and 150 grams. The second image here is the NT factor with Coenzyme Q 10. That's 30 chewable wafers, chocolate flavored. And the one on the right here is patented energy is another chewable wafer, Berry flavored. 60 wafers per bottle. So those are the three products that I like the best. And they've also got a pet product, and I gave a little bit of this to my cat every night in her feeding bowl. It's going to be just as beneficial for pets as it is for humans. So anti factor lipids is the brand name. Nutritional Therapeutics is the company, and for any of you healthcare professionals that are interested, you can call nutritional therapeutics, let them know you're on this seminar. Rob fielding is the operations manager, but I think any operation manager, I think anybody will take your call that you can open up a professional account and purchase these products at wholesale for yourself. Recommend them to your patients. It's up to you to follow through and do what you'd like. But I think that this is really a breakthrough in biological aging. So that's the end of my presentation. I'm happy to discuss some questions and get rid of my screen here.

Bill Clearfield  50:24
Okay, do you have a, do you have a routine or a protocol for, you know, sort of introducing some of these products? I mean, are there certain things that you're looking for in laboratory tests and history, physics? I mean, just, you know the fact that they're Yes

Speaker 1  50:41
sure. I don't. I don't look for any laboratory or at any laboratory chest. I just tell people this is going to slow down your aging process. People say, How am I going to know it's working? How do you tell it's working? And the way I answer that is, when you take your dose of vitamin C today or vitamin D, how much different Do you feel tomorrow? You don't you take it because you understand that it's beneficial. And for many people, you understand the science. So that's what this is about. This is not a quick fix. This is gradually improving the function and the structure of cells and membranes throughout your body, especially mitochondrial membrane, and people get more energy. It's really been documented and recorded, and I think just about anybody can gain benefit from taking these products.

Bill Clearfield  51:38
Where does this fit in with some of the other things we've discussed? Particularly, rapamycin.

Speaker 1  51:45
I think, like rapamycin, I'm still a strong proponent of it. I take it every week, once a week. I take the NT factor bulk powder or teaspoon daily. And for those of you that are interested in it, it's heat stable, so some people like to dissolve it in their coffee. I just mix it up in a glass and with a little handheld device that's a stir. I take the chewable wafers when I'm on the road traveling, and I just encourage people to try it and but I'm happy to share the science with people so that they can understand it better. And I can send my slide deck to you, Bill, and you can post it so all of you

Unknown Speaker  52:32
put it on our website. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  52:36
Okay. Um, couple of questions in the chat. Do you check, MPO Myeloperoxidase

Speaker 1  52:42
with I'm really not a clinician, and I don't do lab work, so I don't check

Speaker 3  52:51
it. No. Dr Bill, I think that was for the discussion that

Bill Clearfield  52:55
I had a while ago. Okay, well, Dr Nario, then do you check my MPO with

Speaker 3  53:00
low HDL? Yes, MPO is something you check when there's low HDL, because I mentioned that it could be stealth. Anything below 60 of an HDL, you have to be suspicious that there is something wrong with your HDL quality, so they can be etherogenic. So not only MPO do I check, but also check the other parameters, such as oxidized LDL, ADMA, SDMA. So these are nitric oxide, I guess, determinants, for example, oxidation, because the higher the number for your MPO, and the higher the number for these other parameters, the higher chance of cardiovascular disease. So don't be, yeah, don't be fooled by an HDL number that's that's just in the very high or even very low, because either one can be dangerous for for cardiovascular health,

Bill Clearfield  53:53
does NT factor affect lipids at all.

Speaker 1  53:57
Ross, um, I'm not aware that I haven't seen any studies, and most of these studies are self funded, and it takes a lot of money to do studies, and so to my knowledge, they haven't done any studies on that, and one of the studies I've encouraged them to do, I would love to have them test the urinary output of people that are on these products and record and document how many toxins are being eliminated. Another thing I'll mention, this company is very interested in the falling rates of fertility worldwide, and so they have a couple of studies going one in Uruguay and another in Australia, the one in your Uruguay is testing human sperm, and the one in Australia is testing the sperm of stallions. And they don't have the results of these studies yet, but they are hopeful that it'll show that membrane lipid replacement or the NT factor lipids will protect sperm and result in more viability of the sperm.

Bill Clearfield  55:10
Okay, good, and then so I guess my favorite question about the hormones and NT factors, they we don't have any answer

Speaker 1  55:16
on that. Do you have any information on that? No, okay,

Bill Clearfield  55:20
okay, in your experience, I know you said you don't deal with, you know, laboratory stuff at all. Your experience, is there any markers at all that that we might that might even have a hint to

Speaker 1  55:35
to look at in terms of membrane lipid replacement or anti factor lip, yeah, the main marker is the fluorescent rhodamine dye that will document improvement in mitochondrial membrane function. But in terms of physical symptoms, other than decreased fatigue and more energy, there's not another clinical marker that

Bill Clearfield  56:00
I'm aware of, I don't know. I don't know if we can get that done at lab core that.

Speaker 1  56:06
No, that's a good point. I will look into that and report back to you. Bill.

Bill Clearfield  56:11
Somebody asked about studies on testosterone, and we already asked you that comment on stem cell for anti aging. I'm not sure

Speaker 1  56:19
I've gotten very interested in stem cells. A year ago, I was a speaker at the radfest life extension conference, and Dr Michael Chan from Malaysia gave two presentations, and he was just riveting. And I've gotten connected with him. I've had stem cell therapy injections from him. Michael Chan is revolutionizing stem cell therapy. What they're doing, he is pioneering organ specific stem cells. They have a huge colony of 600 rabbits, and then they do C sections on the rabbits and extract the fetuses before they're have a normal delivery. And then they've got an amazing lab that is one of the most high tech labs I've ever seen with very powerful microscopes, and they are extracting the stem cells from individual organs, so you can get kidney stem cells and heart stem cells and liver stem cells and brain stem cells. And so that's kind of a real breakthrough in stem cell therapy. And Michael Chan is enormously successful. He's got 43 clinics worldwide, most of them in Europe and Asia. But I'll send a link to his website so all of you can look into him. And he comes to, usually LA or someplace in California, probably close to once a month, and a number of people will connect with him, and when he comes to the States, we're trying to actually see if we can get funding to open a clinic for him at a really nice Hospital in Tijuana. We need about three or $4 million to open up this clinic for Michael Chan. But this is a little bit similar to what I used to do for six years when I lived in Mexico and I was the hospital administrator of the alternative non toxic cancer hospital. We would fly people into San Diego, pick them up in a van, and drive them down across the border to our hospital. And so that's what we hope to be able to do with Michael Chan, is get a a wing of a hospital opened up for him for his therapies, so that people in the United States will have easy access to his stem cell therapies. And he's also doing exosomes and bio regulator peptides and just a whole range of things. So he's really on the cutting edge of regenerative medicine,

Bill Clearfield  59:09
I guess back to NT factor lipids. Is there risk of overdose?

Speaker 1  59:14
Risk of overdose? No, no risk of overdose. The only problem with an overdose is money. Your your pocketbook, but the no dose that I've ever seen, and I don't know if anybody's, I mean, you could use gross negligence, probably, and take enough to choke on it, but, but there's really not going to be a problem with taking too, big a dose.

Bill Clearfield  59:43
There's a question about plaques. That's some sort of IV. What's the name? Plaquex, P, L, A, Q, E, N, E,

Speaker 3  59:52
x, not from this plaque X, that's, I think that's what they meant, yeah. So that's a phosphate titled choline infusion. I think, which is part of the MT factor component.

Speaker 1  1:00:05
So, yeah, so just, thanks for that question. I'll just expand on this a little bit. So phosphatidylcholine, Phosphatidylserine, Phosphatidyl ethanolamine. There's, there's a whole range of phospholipids. We do get some in the diet, but people don't come anywhere near getting a therapeutic dose of these and the anti factor lipids are concentrated phospholipids, a whole range of them, and sourced from healthy sources and European standards. So it's really healthy way to get a therapeutic dose of these lipids that will enable you to start to replace and repair cellular membranes. And I think

Speaker 3  1:00:49
Doctor Felton pack x is just phosphatidylcholine, and when you talk about anti factor, it contains all those three that you have, and probably even more. I think there's even cardio lip in and some of the products that is proprietary. So, I mean, this is actually in good in conjunction with with plaque, as I have a pretty good experience with, with plaque XIV, so I've been using it a lot in my practice. That's why, yes, I do give oral Phosphatidyl cholines as well, and also lipid MLRS. At the same time

Speaker 1  1:01:24
to maintain it, I wrote a chapter on phosphatidylcholine in the first book I wrote, which is titled mind food and smart pills, was published by Doubleday, and it was about intelligence enhancing drugs and nutrients, and that was the first book that I wrote quite a few years ago, but I had a

Speaker 3  1:01:44
chapter on phosphatidylcholine, right? Well, if you really want to focus on brain function, a lot of these correlations with MLRS would be more on Phosphatidylserine, just because of its affinity towards brain mitochondria. So but again, overall, all of these anti lip, anti factor components, it's just good for every part of

Speaker 1  1:02:07
your system. Basically, you're right, yep, good for everything.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:13
There's a question about the fact that the NT factor is soy based.

Speaker 1  1:02:19
The some of them are extracted from soy, and then they have a non soy based product that's for people that might be sensitive to soy.

Speaker 3  1:02:30
Okay, in defense to that question, anti factor is actually what we call purified lipids, even though it's soy derived. These are not whole soy or soy protein, which are considered allergenic, so meaning it has been removed in relation to those allergenic components. And at the same time, the it's non GMO, as far as I remember, in terms of my research about this non GMO soil is being used in these specific products. And as you mentioned, Garth Nicholson had proven this in so many studies in relation to the effects in terms of fatigue, energy and membrane integrity, again, without the soy related adverse effects. So I think in defense of that anti factor, it really has observed these specific indications,

Speaker 1  1:03:18
and there's no soy proteins in it, it's just the phospholipids that are

Speaker 3  1:03:23
extracted right, more purified lipids, so they're not whole soy No, soy protein, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:03:31
Would would it be considered an endocrine disruptor? Then,

Speaker 1  1:03:34
with the soy Not that I'm aware

Speaker 3  1:03:38
of? No, no, I don't think so, just because, again, with the multiple the Garth Nicholson studies actually didn't show any soy related adverse effects if it does contain these soy components that we're worried about. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:03:58
somebody asked if they could use stem cells from rabbits,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:02
stem cells for mothers,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:03
rabbits? From rabbits, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:08
I guess I asked the question

Speaker 5  1:04:09
one more time, yeah. Michael Chen uses rabbits, and he takes stem cells from rabbits, from the organs. Are those stem cells used for women, for human beings.

Speaker 1  1:04:23
Yes, that's they extract them from the rabbits, and they inject them into human beings, and they're specific pathogen free. So there's, there's no pathogens, and the DNA structure of the stem cells from rabbits is almost identical to human stem cells and so and there's several different animals that are being used in the stem cell scientific arena. Rabbits are number one. Sheep are being used and can't remember. There's a third animal I've seen referred to I can't remember right now, but, but rabbits are one of the primary ones that are being used because they're, they're so easy to raise that, you know, they they reproduce fast, and so you get a good source of stem cells.

Speaker 5  1:05:13
But is there any risk, because those cells will become organs of the human being? They will come. They will they will become part of the cells of us. Let's say somebody injects stem cells from rabbit, then they develop into myocytes or something, and they will have the DNA of

Speaker 1  1:05:36
the rabbit. Yep. And when you do these organ specific stem cells, they get injected into your buttocks. But then this the the organ, specific cells migrate to the specific organ. Somehow the body has this knowledge that the kidney cells will migrate to the kidney and the heart cells will migrate to the heart. And so Michael chan does a pretty extensive medical questionnaire and symptom survey and and all your lab tests and so forth to find out which ones might be most appropriate, appropriate for any individual.

Speaker 5  1:06:13
And if they go into a human brain, they develop into human neurons or rabbit neurons.

Speaker 1  1:06:22
They developed a good question human tissue. And Michael chan did a really interesting presentation a couple of weeks ago, a radfest, and he talked about improving brain function, and had some interesting results with both an autism and also down syndrome children, and the before and after images of these children were just astounding that their whole change of their demeanor and the structure of their face and their energetic level with dramatic I don't know how long they were on the therapy, or how many times they got stem cell injection, but it pretty dramatic improvement in their physical being

Speaker 3  1:07:10
amazing. Dr nella, you have to remember, these are still used under research guidance. So again, specific recommendations of these specific products, yeah, are not really up to the medical standard yet that we're even I mean, in general, stem cells are especially here in the US, but I am aware of Doctor Michael Chan, and he did present his, I know, and one of the practitioners running his clinic also, and they do vouch for the good results of this. It's just, it's just weird to hear that we're getting stem cells from animals, right? And that's hard to accept, especially for conventional doctors but with this colleague of mine who works with this type of method, they do see results with it. It's just really, you just have to kind of open your mind a little bit more about.

Speaker 5  1:07:57
stem cells from rabbits. He talked about the conference in March this year. The

Speaker 4  1:08:07
other reason the rabbits are used is that they don't carry prion disease that you find with bovine,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:13
pig or sheep,

Speaker 4  1:08:16
good point. Thank you. That's, that's the, really, the most critical piece

Speaker 1  1:08:20
of information. Yeah, there's, it's called specific pathogen free SPF

Speaker 4  1:08:26
terminal. That's true. They are, they are, they are that. But it's known that the rabbit does not carry prion disease.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:33
Yeah. Good point.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:35
Thank you. Yep.

Speaker 5  1:08:38
Is there any possibility to get rid of prions? Because I read a lot of scientists they are talking about in spike protein has a portion of the prion

Speaker 1  1:08:53
bill. Can you repeat that question? Have a little trouble with the accent? Sorry about that.

Speaker 5  1:09:00
Oh, so I did in many studies that spike protein have a portion that is similar to Brian. Brian and I was wondering, is there any right now, any kind of technology that if somebody is infected with the prion, that we can remove that, yeah, remove the prions.

Speaker 3  1:09:25
I'm Bill, are you there? What she was asking is, there's a way to remove prions. Oh, especially

Speaker 1  1:09:35
with, yeah, not that I know of. I, however, one of the things I mentioned earlier was these two books on COVID, and a couple of the authors in those books have a a long COVID protocol, and so a lot of people suffering from long COVID, and some various think it's three different nattokinase and couple of other herbal products that are being used. Is

Bill Clearfield  1:10:07
that Peter McCullough's group is that with see one of the sponsors there, that and those books that you mentioned,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:16
I sponsor. I missed that.

Bill Clearfield  1:10:20
Peter McCullough, you know, he's big, a big proponent of nano kinase. I'm not familiar with that work, nattokinase.

Speaker 1  1:10:28
You just mentioned nattokinase, but who you're talking about is a big proponent of it, Peter McCullough. Oh, Peter, yes. Peter McCullough is the guy that has a protocol in the chapters that I'm making available his he actually discusses his long COVID protocol,

Bill Clearfield  1:10:49
yeah. So it's nattokinase. It's 100 100 units, I think it's 100 milligrams twice a day. Betaine, I forget the dose on that, once a day. And curcumin, 500 milligrams twice a day. That's the that's the protocol. Thanks for that. There you go. You know, you don't have to go buy the book I just gave you the answer. Okay, so Dr Sanders writes, there's been cosmetic results, hair growth and integrity, skin integrity using plant derived stem cells, seems humans can incorporate stem from different organisms and use to stimulate growth factors. Same thing you said. Ross, okay, someone asked about different types of cancers and with the NT factor,

Speaker 1  1:11:47
any experience with with that? No, they haven't. I mean, with cancer patients, there's tremendous improvement in symptoms, the nausea and the vomiting, the weight loss and the energy loss and so forth. But they're not going on a limb and recommended as a cancer treatment, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:12:08
Okay, okay, Doctor. NAU, get any email questions,

Speaker 3  1:12:12
yes, so one of the bigger questions about anti factor versus its proponents, so I'm sure you've heard of lecithin, for example, and even choline as as lipid replacement supplements. In relation to that, what makes anti factor different from these basic

Speaker 1  1:12:37
lipid replacements much more concentrated, and I think that's the big difference, that it's not just one or several, but it's a wide range of these phospholipids and concentrated dose and protected with antioxidants, so that when you they're you're taking them and they're being delivered. They're healthy, non oxidized phospholipids,

Speaker 3  1:13:02
yeah, and I think to add to that, is there a special delivery method with anti factor versus the as as we know that the degradation of lecithin, choline, phosphate, choline, in the GI tract happens. That's why there's only so much. Small amount reaches the small intestines. Is there something that is proprietary with a delivery system of anti factor?

Speaker 1  1:13:30
I'm not sure about that. I don't know. It seems to be absorbed by mass action. Garth Nicholson wrote about this in a couple of his papers. So higher doses, you're getting more the body just able to absorb more of it, and then it absorbs more of the toxins for removal. So he talks about mass action being kind of the the mechanism of absorption.

Speaker 3  1:13:57
Okay, yeah, I just thought there was a special delivery system, but,

Speaker 1  1:14:00
but, but still. I mean, I'm not aware of a special delivery system, but the, the main thing that they talk about is the antioxidants and the fructo oligosaccharides that protect them, so that you're being assured of receiving non oxidized, healthy glycophospholipids,

Speaker 3  1:14:16
right, right? Here's another one. How soon can they expect to see changes? So you mentioned all of these symptoms changes, and how long when you're taking

Speaker 1  1:14:29
anti factor, if you look at the Gulf War symptom veteran study, and there's graph for all those 22 symptoms where that had on the slide that showed improvements and all those different symptom in the paper, there's a graph for each one of those 22 symptoms showing how much and how fast improvement over The six month period, and a lot of them started to show significant decline in those symptoms after two to three weeks or so. And by three months, many of them had huge drops. And of course, six months, it was even more. But lot of them are starting to get noticeable symptoms relief on within first, 234, weeks,

Speaker 3  1:15:12
right? And they have to understand that we're, we're replacing lipid layers here. These are not things that you're going to be seeing in like, few days in terms of the results. So it takes a while, and these are damaged parts that you want to replace. So yeah, weeks, months probably will be an ideal, realistic perspective on that. And another one, is there a ceiling effect for for MLR, is it something patients should continue indefinitely, like maybe maintenance dose or suggested length of intake?

Speaker 1  1:15:46
I'm going to do it indefinitely. I recommend that people do it on a regular basis, improving mitochondrial function and slowing down mitochondrial DNA damage is something I want to do for the rest of my

Speaker 3  1:15:58
life, right? And you have to remember oxidative damage is happening every day. You just getting stressed a diet that we eat, so, yeah, definitely, this is something that you probably need to be on for a period of time, even as

Unknown Speaker  1:16:13
a maintenance maybe,

Speaker 3  1:16:14
yeah, yep. So what current research, basically, kind of you're seeing in the future of MLR, in the clinical practice, and probably you what, what do you want to see in terms

Speaker 1  1:16:25
of advancement for it? Well, I would like to see a number of studies done, and they are kind of financially strapped. I mean, they put a tremendous amount of money into all these studies over the last 20 years, and they've got a couple of studies, as I mentioned, going one in Uruguay and one in Australia. But it it takes a lot of money to fund these studies, and they're a little bit cash poor in terms of putting money into more studies. So I'm trying to help them market it and get the word out

Speaker 3  1:16:58
about how important it is, right? And I see there's a real huge part of this probably playing in cognitive health, especially with the uprise of Alzheimer's dementia, every type of dementia out there. I think there's a big role for MLR to be part of that. I mean, I don't know if you heard of Dr Kane. She's a big proponent of phospholipids in neurodegenerative diseases. So this is something that she's she has a protocol for this using phosphate COVID IV. But again, world can definitely be something that always will be a contributor to this, and to just to kind of speed up everything, yeah, and in relation to, of course, the one of the things that you probably see now, and maybe your perspective, MLR and longevity medicine and other other supplements that you can introduce to this protocol of yours. Are there any thing that you can add to that?

Speaker 1  1:18:02
Well, there's a number of I've got another other products that I'm really quite fond of that are really important for anti aging and life extension and regenerative medicine. One of them is crystal free Coenzyme Q 10. Crystal free. Crystal free. Most people don't realize that Coenzyme Q 10s, melting point is 10 degrees higher than body temperature, so it crystallizes, and we can't absorb clumps of CO Q 10. It has to be single molecules in solution. There's a company out of Denmark called Pharma Nord, and they have a process that keeps their CO Q 10 in solution, and they've done clinical trials showing that they get anywhere from three to 10 times higher plasma level than other commercial brands. And I'd say a majority of the randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trials conducted with CO Q 10 around the world over the last 20 or 30 years have used farmer Nords crystal free Coenzyme Q 10. I'll put a link to this, give it to bill so we could put in the show notes, so you can get in touch with farmer Nord and take a look at their product. But I think it's really important, because CO Q 10 is so critical for mitochondrial function, energy production, fat soluble, antioxidant. I think that just Coenzyme Q 10 is definitely an anti aging life extension, nutrient. But it's really unfortunate. So many people are spending money and it's like one or 2% absorption. I mean, it's really a shame. And so I really promoting this crystal free coast. Q, 10,

Speaker 3  1:19:46
right? Well, Dr, Ross, that was a great presentation. So you knocked all my questions out again.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:54
You're a common

Speaker 3  1:19:56
picture for us, so definitely come back again and share us. Your knowledge is evolving every time we see you.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:03
Thanks, everybody. Couple more questions. Ross, have you ever heard of fatty 15 for cellular membrane health, and

Speaker 1  1:20:11
how does it compare? I'm that's a new one to me. I'm not familiar with

Bill Clearfield  1:20:15
it. Okay? We've had her on too, or I remember her first name was Stephanie and it was my mother's

Speaker 1  1:20:19
name. And I forget where the link to that, so I can look into it

Unknown Speaker  1:20:23
sure and

Bill Clearfield  1:20:28
how much Coenzyme Q 10

Speaker 1  1:20:31
is recommended. I take 100 milligrams a day for people that have cardiovascular problems or other health related brown or chronic fatigue and so forth. I recommend 200 milligrams a day, but it should not be taken in one dose. You get higher absorption if you take two individual doses, 100 milligrams twice a day, is much better absorption and plasma levels than taking 200 milligrams in one dose. And since it's a fat soluble nutrient, you get better absorption if you take it at a meal, it contains fat in the meal.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:10
Yeah. Okay, so the the fatty 15 person. Her name is Stephanie van Watson, and I can probably get you think so. And another question was about, has the Veterans Administration shown any interest? Have they done any what has the Veterans Administration shown any interest in any of these

Speaker 1  1:21:32
types of therapies. Well, Garth Nicholson worked with the VA to get these Gulf War veterans and enrolled in a study. But, and he actually has been honored by veterans. Somehow, he got some kind of an honorary degree or something based on his work for veterans, but in terms of the government itself, that's a pretty slow process to get them involved in things.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:04
Okay, I'm getting you the fatty 15. Thank you.

Speaker 1  1:22:09
There you go. So thanks for your interest, everybody. I appreciate you being on tonight and good questions and discussion.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:15
So thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ross. Again, as always, we'll be in touch. And I sent you the link, link for the age management Medical Group, and if you didn't get it in the chat, I'll send it to you

Speaker 1  1:22:31
when I send you some follow up things that post in the show notes too, so people can get that quick reference guide to drug induced nutrient depletions

Bill Clearfield  1:22:39
and a couple other things. Okay, okay, so much. Okay, before we go, Dr Quinn, what? What's doing with the

Speaker 6  1:22:49
research group? Oh, boy. Lot lots of stuff. Can hear me, okay? My speaker, funky, okay. Lot, a lot of stuff going on. We started out 15 minutes early by Doctor Peter Dimitri wanted us to evaluate the addition of their product called M, N, B, M, I, which is a meramide. It's a, it's a heavy metal key later, completely natural type of molecule that's been out for a while. And then the FDA pulled it, and all of this 15 minutes ahead of time to evaluate this, and three hours later, I think we got done. So it's going to be added to the apothecary of the indigenous or the tribal medicine groups, which was another situation we got into talking about that, because we are going to go full bore on this apothecary system to bring in products that may not be mainstream, that are maybe unique, and maybe some of these things might even be frowned upon, let's say, by various organizations, which now there's an article going around talking about homeopathic being declared illegal by the FDA.

Bill Clearfield  1:24:03
We are looking you know that article is 10 years old? Yeah, yeah. Look at coming up.

Speaker 6  1:24:07
10 years old. It keeps coming up. It keeps recycling and and so that brought to the point of of certain things like, let's say, peptides, or other things like that, that might be really good products for the tribal profit carry, to carry, not being subject to some of the rules and regulations of FDA, and so we spent some time talking about formalizing that and having a formal group to approve products on that, along the lines of degreed programs. Dr Tano, our own Dr Tano and Dr Anthony James, who runs a his clinic down in Florida, have come up with a system to offer degrees that are going to be internationally approved as well. So we went into that as well. That sets about it. There's more stuff, but that's the main points right there. And if Dr Tano is still on and has any further comments,

Bill Clearfield  1:25:11
please feel free. I know Dr Cano, you, are you available? If you're here

Unknown Speaker  1:25:18
or not? You know dr Burgess is in Hawaii. Did

Bill Clearfield  1:25:22
you know that? No, I, I heard, I heard,

Speaker 6  1:25:26
I heard a rumor, yes, yeah. And he's, he's, he's looking for, he's got land and whatnot picked out to put in a major clinic and all this kind of stuff. He's kind of going full bore on that. So if anybody's interested in that, we can connect you with Dr Burgess.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:41
Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:44
in Hawaii. I'm sorry, where

Speaker 6  1:25:46
is he in Hawaii? You know, I'm not exactly sure whether it's a big island or or Oahu. I'm not exactly

Unknown Speaker  1:25:52
sure. I think it's a big we gotta go there tomorrow. So,

Speaker 6  1:25:55
oh, okay, well, we'll have to have to find out

Speaker 3  1:25:58
if he's around. Yep, that's where you guys extract me. Remember, if I don't come back, it's the conventional guys who got me hostage.

Speaker 6  1:26:07
So, oh, I was going to say I thought maybe you wanted us to leave

Speaker 3  1:26:10
you there. No, just make sure that you know my last location, because they said they wanted for a lecture. But who knows if that's an entrapment

Unknown Speaker  1:26:18
or something? Oh, that's not you never know. Okay,

Speaker 7  1:26:25
well, I don't have anything to add. Doctor Quinn made the good summary of what we've been doing, so I think for the courses and stuff, the ball is my court. I need to write my part to give it to Dr James in terms of the curriculum and how we want to present it to students. So if you know people who will be interested in this is not too early to let them know that this thing is coming. And then we can, they can contact us. Yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:27:01
you got it.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:04
Okay, all right, terrific. Okay, I got the CME credit link there for you if you need it, and it's always, it'll be on the the email. For next week. Next week, we have Dr Sammons, who's on here with us tonight, and it should be interesting. So I'm just going to leave it at that. It might be a little bit outside of our usual zone, but I think you'll find it quite interesting. And Dr Sammons is one of our hormone specialists, so be looking forward to that. It's too bad I don't have Dr or Stefan one tonight. I had a I had an old patient. I had someone who I hadn't seen in years. Went to some other practitioner, and called me in a panic this morning that she feels terrible her she's got she had a thyroid issue, and she her iodine serum. Iodine level was 12 145 and they had been giving her 12 and a half milligrams of iodine, a tri IODE from Euro medica. So I would have been interested to see what the what he had to say about that her TSH, the last one was 0.74 and a free t3 of about 4.1 which isn't really too terrible, but an iodine level of 1245 I told her the first thing to do would probably just repeat it to see if it was an error. And you know, we're usually doing either just spot urine iodine or a 24 hour collection, from what I remember, if anybody here is still on here and can chime in that the serum levels aren't all that accurate, do I remember that correctly?

Speaker 3  1:29:07
Yes, that's part of Stefan's presentation that he likes the

Bill Clearfield  1:29:11
urine more. Yeah. All right, so any comments on the serum level of 1245,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:19
I mean, what are her symptoms?

Bill Clearfield  1:29:22
Pretty much hypothyroid symptoms. Even though

Speaker 3  1:29:25
I post looking at hyper

Bill Clearfield  1:29:29
in terms of the number, the number, the numbers are actually pretty adequate. As far as the, you know, the TSH and the free t3 she does have, I think her TPO was about 100 so she, you know, she does have a, you know, an immune component to it. But I'm still new, I don't know about you, I'm still new at, at, you know, looking at iodine levels. And so if anybody has any, any, any comment, yeah, 12 145 serum iodine level, normal range, 40 to 92 so, yeah, um, yeah, so

Speaker 8  1:30:15
that's so I like my I usually check a serum iodine. I'm not as familiar with the urine iodine. I don't tangle with using iodine supplementation or medications only because I found the same conundrum is either they don't respond at all and I don't see their serum levels change, or I see them go way high and like over absorb. So I usually have them do it through dietary like seaweed, fish, iodized salt. Interesting for this patient, though, check what her vitamin D level is, because there is an inverse relationship between TPO antibodies and vitamin D. So the higher the vitamin D, the lower her TPO antibodies will go. So that's a nice way of treating hashies, as well as get their vitamin DS optimized to 80 to 100

Bill Clearfield  1:31:07
Okay, yeah, okay, so she said that a lot of these symptoms began after long COVID, and they gave her gut supplements. So she was having GI symptoms. She was on Cell Core and methylene blue, and then he did IVs, vitamin C infusions. They kept increasing her thyroid medication. And this, she said, this is the she's 42 years old, and she did not get a period for the first time ever. This month, she said she's not pregnant. Or TSH was point 364, and free t3 was 4.3 so TPO was 100 so any suggestions other than one, do a repeat, at least to see if it's true. And anybody got any any other

Speaker 9  1:32:11
Hey, Dr Bill, I mean, I I've had a level over 800 when somebody had a CT, just because, you know, they have the iodinated contrast. So I don't know if she had one, but

Bill Clearfield  1:32:23
yeah, well, she didn't say that, but I guess they've been giving her this tri Iota iodine for about a year and a half. So I said I saw her a long time ago. I haven't seen her in about five or six years, and I just got this email, you know, this morning saying, you know, hey, I'm in trouble. Help. So. So again, my first reaction is, well, let's, let's repeat the the the iodine level to begin with. I know Stefan said that when the urine iodines, when they're being treated with iodine, the levels will be high, but he discounts it, that it's just that they're taking iodine or that or that they're on it. So anybody have any

Speaker 3  1:33:08
comment on that? I mean, I would try to correct that. TSH, again, obviously it sounds like the serum valued that she's taking is a culprit for that. I mean, this is not inclined with integrative approaches. Now this is just basically in terms of a conventional perspective. You definitely want to do the obvious, because you don't want to be blamed for you not you're neglecting the iodine and you letting her continue with that, suppressing her TSH totally. So who knows if it might reset symptoms, if that TSH just goes back to to normal. So, I mean, that's more of a

Bill Clearfield  1:33:48
conventional approach. Would you? Would you reduce the iodine gradually, or just

Speaker 3  1:33:52
stop it and go reduction probably would be a good sign for that, especially if she's been taking it for for a long time, just because, of course, your conventional colleagues be like, Oh, he just let it continue. He didn't even touch it. But it's pretty obvious that I might be the driver of that lowering. TSH,

Speaker 8  1:34:11
okay, okay, all right. And I would also have her check her serum sex hormones as well and see, because she may very well be at a position of Peri menopause, and we know that there's a, yeah, she's 42 it's fairly young, but not unheard of, and so she may be absorbing things a whole lot differently if those sex hormones are changing.

Speaker 9  1:34:34
So I would take a look. You must not know who you're talking to. You're talking to Dr Clearfield. He's like, the

Speaker 8  1:34:39
hormone King, so that's great. Yeah, he hasn't seen her in a while. So somebody else is

Bill Clearfield  1:34:47
I just got this email out of the blue, and you know, I, like I said, I hadn't seen her for a long time, and she called. Now, I remember who she is. She had called and she talked to one of my front office people, and when they got off the phone with me, this lady told me that she's a PhD in Psychology eight times in so that in a three minute conversation. So I don't know if you have any interaction with psychology, psychiatrists and psychologists, but sometimes they have a tendency to not be the most stable people. Just leave it. Aren't all our patients are my you know, my own experience, if you don't know, is that my lovely bride and the mother of my children decided about eight years into our marriage to become a clinical psychologist, and that was the beginning of the end of that. And so, so I'm acutely aware of the the psychological psychologist mentality. So okay, so Dr Sammons will be on next week. You want to announce your topic there, Dr Sammons, and so we can chase everybody away now.

Speaker 8  1:36:01
Um, yeah, I'm really excited about it. Actually, it's, it's kind of looking at how overall sexual health and sexual well being has an interplay with overall well being. So looking at that integrative approach, we need to not negate evaluating patient for sexual health as both an indicator of overall health and also a contributor to overall health. So I think it's going to be a fascinating thing to look at. I'm digging up resources for you guys to be able to have a more comfortable conversation with patients and kind of implement some of this question, line of questioning, and be comfortable doing so in your practice, and sort of open the door to maybe indicating some other health things that could be going on. So

Bill Clearfield  1:36:42
I think it's going to be cool. Okay, so as I mentioned you when, when you proposed that topic, and I, you know, you asked me, Would that be a little bit too uncomfortable? And so those of you that were at our live conferences, you'll remember the two in Reno. We had Monica Jane with us. The the she was our last speaker that twice, you know, she was the sex therapist. And let me tell you, the comments in the in the evaluations, were interesting to say the least. So I kept saying, I'm either going to, either going to be the most popular, you know, curator of conferences, you know, running a conference in town, or they're going to, or they're going to end up this. This will be the end for me right here, because she was not, not shy, we'll just leave this. And so, so, yeah, so we're, we're good, I think we're good with it. So, and the other, the other thing that I kept it kept, kept going through my mind with her, and it does that says, If my mother knew what I did for a living,

Unknown Speaker  1:37:49
she could have a cow. I remember her. That was during the pandemic,

Speaker 2  1:37:53
right? Yeah, we should have, actually, she's, she's

Bill Clearfield  1:37:58
one of the best, yeah, that was actually before the pandemic, so that when we did the live, when we did our live shows. So, so, okay, we are going to let everybody go. It's a little bit, actually a little early for us. And like I said, Dr Sammons will be on next week, and I'll have the video ready. It's, you know, on our aosrd, it's on our YouTube channel, and we'll have the links for if you need the CME credits, and the week after that, on on August 5, we're going to have Sharon Heisman Cohen, who is the genetic genetic specialist. So it's a little bit something a little bit different. So if you want some spread that word also. And so thank again. Thank Ross for being with us again, as always. And Michael, you got anything for us tonight? Dr Gerber, no, you're, you're, you're muted and can't hear you.

Speaker 4  1:39:08
So I worked at that same Gerson clinic very shortly in 1975

Unknown Speaker  1:39:15
Oh, my Lord. But

Bill Clearfield  1:39:20
quite a, quite a scene down there. Yeah, so when we had dark hair, like Dr narion, okay, this link in here, this email in here, is that's, this is for Stephanie then Watson. She's from the fatty somebody asked about fatty 15. That's her here, if you want that, here's the CME credits. Thyroiditis can cause high iodine levels. So I'll let you know. I'm actually going to see her tomorrow, and I'll let you know where we go. So you know, as those of you know me, you know, we do the complete hormone panel and everybody just about every time. So, you know, we do, we 11 hormones, is our, is our, is our, is our baseline. So we will get the sex hormones, and, you know, and all the others. So in case you're curious, so we do estrone, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, free and total sex hormone binding globulin, I do an IGF one as a screen. Sometimes we'll do growth hormone, also, insulin, melatonin, cortisol, TSH, t3, t4, free t3, free t4, TPO and a thyroglobulin TSI if they have hyperthyroid symptoms, and DHEA pregnant alone. So I think we pretty much cover everything. Did I miss anything? Dr

Speaker 8  1:40:48
Sammons, no, I think that's a really good panel to do, and hopefully we'll get an update next week on your patient. For sure, I'd be curious to see what her pulse and her blood pressure are, because she does sound like a like an acute hyperthyroid, though she feels like crap. So be interesting.

Speaker 7  1:41:05
Actually, I have a question, Dr Bill, do you anyone in the group? Do you know if there's a blood test for estrogen metabolized like 16 alpha hydroxy estrogen and two hydroxy estrogen,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:21
I think that we do the Dutch test for that, the urine

Speaker 7  1:41:23
test, I want to get away from that. That's why I wanted to see if there's any Genova used to have the blood test, but I don't do that anymore. So I wondered if any other lab

Unknown Speaker  1:41:35
does that.

Speaker 8  1:41:37
Um, what I look at is like a total estrogen, like, if I'm worried, I always I'm getting an MTHFR, homocysteine levels on everybody. Now that'll give you an idea of how their methylation process is going anyway. And then as I'm giving HRT, I'll typically follow their total estrogens and estrone levels as well. So it's not as specific as the two versus four hydroxy and so forth, but at least it gives you an idea if they're over accumulating, then you can kind of nip it in the bud early, as opposed to just relying on estradiol, right? Because I don't like using the urine test either only because it's an added expense to my patients, and I'd rather them spend that resource on their HRT than diagnostics

Speaker 7  1:42:18
That's correct. So yeah, that's why I was looking. I don't know if Genova can bring the test back, because it was quite good. When they did the hormonal panel for women and men, they added the metabolites, which were very good, but since 2021 they discarded it.

Speaker 3  1:42:40
Dr channel, are you talking about a blood test resulting into metabolite results? Yeah, right, yes. Because as far as I know, the metabolites are usually more for urine. I mean, if you're just driving away from Dutch, there's UMap from doctors data. I think, I think vibrant also has, but again, it's also urine. So that's why they test urine, because the metabolism is already there. It's like,

Speaker 7  1:43:07
byproducts, yeah, they all have the urine. But I tried, I tried to do those, but they didn't give me Yeah, yeah. And now the trial freezer is

Bill Clearfield  1:43:15
not working. I don't know

Unknown Speaker  1:43:21
if we hit the get it when we

Bill Clearfield  1:43:23
turn off the surge protection. Alright, we gotta get Doctor Gerber to

Unknown Speaker  1:43:27
turn his turn off. Yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:32
So okay, say. Dr Clearfield,

Speaker 4  1:43:36
yes. Would you like to reach out to Dr Brownstein about your idea, your ident question? I would, yeah, right. I'll send you an email with his his email to you shortly. Okay, I would All right, yeah, I just dropped him a line asking if it's okay to, you know, share his contact info to you. And he said, Fine, and you can propose whatever you know,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:04
you got information on that patient. Let him know that at home, I have his iodine, one of his iodine

Speaker 4  1:44:10
books. Yeah, so anyways, he will probably run into that elevation a lot more commonly than most people.

Speaker 3  1:44:24
Okay, heads up that Dr Bill would invite him for a webinar also, yeah, along with that console,

Speaker 4  1:44:31
I'll let him know. Well, Bill, you can, you can email him, and if you I'm sure he'll share you his phone number. You can talk to him, ask him about that patient, and say again, maybe I get invited for dinner, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:48
Well, you know just, I think he lives in Cleveland, right?

Speaker 4  1:44:52
Is that Michigan? No, he lives in the Farmington area

Bill Clearfield  1:44:56
of Michigan. All right, it's near my daughter. Okay, yeah, I live in

Unknown Speaker  1:45:04
Pittsburgh. Yeah, hey.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:06
Dr Nario, yes.

Speaker 2  1:45:08
Dr Mike Chan, if, if I'm correct, hasn't he been on Dr Thomas Lewis says website or zooms on Monday mornings at nine and Wednesdays at five?

Speaker 3  1:45:21
I think it is. I think he appeared in, I think far Shannon. I remember

Unknown Speaker  1:45:29
far she and, yeah, that's right.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:32
Yeah, you're right. That's, that's

Speaker 3  1:45:34
where I saw stem cell society.

Speaker 2  1:45:38
He got invited there. He comes on there quite a bit. And he shows up, I think he shows up to Thomas Lewis, just to listen to some stuff. Yeah, okay. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:02
Okay, Dr Bill, we're ready. Yeah, I'm ready. I got a question from the from to ask Ross Pelton about a placebo arm of his veteran study. So it was in the chat, and I missed it, so sorry about that. I will send it. Ask him that question when I when I write to him, and I will get back to it. Yes, are you dozed off? No, no, no, I'm here. I only do that two or three times a day. You know, you know all your prostate, you know. You know, remedies never work, you guys. So get up 14 times a night, you know, and you get a little sleep about this time. Hey, volunteered it. So it's not, not like you didn't tell tell anybody about it. I did. So Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? Okay, if you have anybody else that you want to recommend for you speaking, we're always, always looking for speakers. We got some new folks coming up in the future and some old favorites, and we'll see you again next week, same time same station, um, take take care doctor Nario, take care. Don't be a stranger, and everybody here misses you. So, okay, and Joe, take, take care, heal up. And we want you back here, too. Okay. Okay. Good night everybody.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:33
Good. night. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai