Bill Clearfield  00:22
Dr Tanno, how are you? Oh, you know me. I'm having the time of my life as always

Speaker 1  00:32
I know, just Non Stop Fun up there.

Bill Clearfield  00:39
It's just Yep, it's not just the button never stops. How about you guys? Dr Tanner's got a hot new app going. I hear, right? I don't know, actually, yeah, I actually took a look at it looks pretty, pretty cool.

Unknown Speaker  01:02
Agree, definitely needed.

Bill Clearfield  01:14
I'd ask if you are home, Joe, but I can see my daughter, daughter in the background there. That's right, you betcha. All right. So Well, thanks for taking over Dr tannos today so we can get Stefan to the to be he's going to become a politician before long. Here,

Benoit Tano  01:41
you're muted. Yeah, Stephen, yesterday, we're talking, so I'm presenting. I said, Oh, I thought I was presenting.

Bill Clearfield  01:54
Yeah, well, you know, my old timers disease is kicking in here. I'm gonna, I'm gonna have to turn this over to Joel and Dr Nario, I think, yeah, any mistakes?

Unknown Speaker  02:14
Be honored to take over.

Benoit Tano  02:18
We did not advertise this, so I don't know how many people will show up, but I think it's interesting.

Bill Clearfield  02:25
We usually, we usually, well, I I've been working it. So I have two lectures that I was supposed to turn into yesterday for ammg, and I didn't finish one of them, so I'm still at it. Yeah, gave me So, Dr Panos, let's what would you do? They gave me one

Unknown Speaker  02:44
hour. It's right. It's

Bill Clearfield  02:47
for the introduction to hormone optimization. My hour, my hour was to talk about thyroid, cortisol, insulin, environmental disruptors, okay? And laboratory

Benoit Tano  03:05
All right, so maybe one hour all that, one hour you cannot do that. One insulin alone can take a whole hour. Yeah?

Bill Clearfield  03:16
I mean, that's that. That's a whole weekend for each one of those. Yeah, so they, they actually have a planning committee, you know, an educational committee. I said, Who came up with this? Right?

Benoit Tano  03:31
Well, that's packing the topics in one place, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  03:36
So I got it down to about 100 slides, and more than half of them are on the thyroid. I figured that was more important, right? So, but I'm just It's almost done. Okay, so this weekend, I'm going to Miami, just the the stem cell for the doctor for students group. Okay, so you going to be there?

Benoit Tano  04:01
Me? Yeah, I'm never invited to that group, so I don't even know I've been there. I mean, I did go to two of their presentation, but I'm not a regular.

Bill Clearfield  04:11
Yeah, yeah. Well, if I'm not presenting, I don't go. So Okay, Dr narios Here, let's get him as a co host. Okay, so, Dr Nario, we've had a little change of plan. Stefan got invited to some to hobnob with some highfalutin Florida politicians tonight. So Dr Tanno has taken over. So good. They already, they already got fluoride been in the water there. So that's awesome. I think, I think they're going after diphtheria vaccine next or something

Unknown Speaker  04:49
where in Florida. Yeah, oh, so that's why he was part of that. Yeah. So that's great. Dr Tana is awesome,

Bill Clearfield  05:01
yeah, I know. So Dr, dr Tanner what I muted you? Dr manerio, by accident. So what do you think? So people come in and they ask me about vaccines. I'm not exactly sure what to tell them. I basically what I tell them is, you know, the ones that we had when we were kids, you know, 80 years ago that it took 40 years to develop, they seem to be a lot more palatable than these ones that they come up with every, every, every, you know, half, half, half the quarterly profit statement was

Benoit Tano  05:38
Right, yeah. So I really think it's a bit toxin. For instance, you know the children, if they're born with toxin in them already, like they have mercury or whatever else polluted, and they do a vaccine that has primary saw this mercury adjuvant. Then if you inject that in a baby that already has mercury in them, then it's going to heighten the immune system and cause problem for them. If you ask me, that's what I'm thinking is going on. Haven't seen anybody doing a study really on that to see

Bill Clearfield  06:21
the one, the ones that tried to raise the flag all got run out run out of world.

Benoit Tano  06:28
If you open your mouth about vaccine, you're dead.

Bill Clearfield  06:32
That's it, so. But I remember when I was delivering big babies, and then, you know, and then when I went into family practice. So I delivered babies and then saw them afterwards, and we were given these kids, like, 18 or 20 vaccines by the time they were 15 months old, yeah, and they would have seizures and all sorts of things. And then what was happening is, they, they, Oh, here's a new vaccine, you know, that you have to give. You know, the Pediatric Society said, here's a new one for you. And it three. Then three months later they would withdraw it. I mean, they did that like three or four times with different one was called, one was a rotavirus vaccine. I remember, I don't remember what any other one, but I remember that one, right? I gave that to a couple of kids, and they, if they were didn't have seizures and then brain damage, they were screaming their heads off pretty good for a long time after I said I'm not doing this anymore. This is ridiculous.

Benoit Tano  07:25
That's right. Yeah, I really think the veterans, maybe there could be a study on them. Joe, veterans, they do a lot of vaccination, and some of the most weird vaccinations, so if we're being deployed, Joe will tell you about that, because, you know that is very I don't know I, when I worked for them one year, we did so many vaccinations, they have a bad vaccine adverse events, but I don't think they capture all the proof about it.

Bill Clearfield  07:58
No, you always told me you they gave you a zillion vaccinations, right?

Speaker 2  08:02
Yeah, yeah. We did three. We had three full, what we call medical days, and you stood in line, and we would walk down the line, and they literally had these guns that had like, three needles or five needles, and boom, they'd hit you on both arms as you walk through and hit you in the ass also, and I passed out three different individual times, just literally, boom, passed out. It was pretty insane. And they don't really tell you what they all are, because they, in essence, don't have to, right?

Bill Clearfield  08:37
They probably don't know themselves, right?

Benoit Tano  08:40
Yeah, right.

Unknown Speaker  08:42
It's, it's, it's pretty rough. It's pretty rough.

Speaker 1  08:45
I think Dr rich coin has a comment there.

Speaker 3  08:49
Yeah, I just wanted to say that when I did my third practice residency in the 80s, they converted from the MMR from 15 months to 12 months, and I raised the question, why are they doing that? Well, because they can't get the people back in time, which I thought was baloney. But then, then, since they did it at 12 months, they would have to give another MMR, later, and my I had a patient who was an advocate from Boston, who was involved with this said Bill, they will never show that MMR causes autism, but if somebody has problems and they get that second MMR, they can regress in their capabilities. And she said they'll never find that on any of the studies, but she was convinced, and the only reason I can think that they really went from 12 to 15 months was just to give everybody a second shot, which was unnecessary anyway. I'll raise, lower my hand, but that's my comment, and there you go.

Speaker 1  10:09
All right, well, we're not gonna get banned from YouTube.

Bill Clearfield  10:13
I haven't started recording yet, so, okay, new system here. I can't they got new, new buttons here. I it took me a while to find the record. We're not recording yet.

Speaker 1  10:23
So, oh, good, because, you know YouTube, it's

Bill Clearfield  10:29
a little after five. So, Dr Nario, you got you have your tip in a week? Yeah. So now we're recording

Speaker 1  10:39
where we Okay, so your hair? Well, I'm sure this is something that everybody knows, but it just raised some some good talk in the fellowship, so I might as well put it out there. It sounds like some practitioners know about it. Some don't, and you probably know about this. So this is actually, again, in relation to in turnsy. So this is basically the the black box warning, so just to kind of officially put it out there, and as we all know that for the last 20 years, again, the whispering HRT might help to a terrified patient. Well, they clutch their guess their pearls, thinking of you were offering something like a poison or something with arsenic related so, as we all know, in 2002 whi dropped like a bomb. So headlines, scream, HRT causes heart attack, strokes, breast cancer and boom, Fear Factory activated. So we were all suddenly the bad guys for even mentioning estrogen and pre whi, late 90s or early 2000s 27% to 40% of post menopausal women were on systemic hormone therapy. Post 2002 it dropped to 50 to 80% and then the first few years so prescription tank from 17 million to 3 million. Some studies shows initiation rates plunging down from eight to 2% continuation from 84 to 62% so by 2020 only five to 10% of symptomatic women were using it, even though 82% reported hot flashes, sleep, hell, brain fog and even bone worries. So again, sales tank globally, millions of women walked away from relief because of the terror patients fear so again, epic women literally thought HRT was one away ticket to cancer or heart attack, but we saw it daily. My friend said it's a poison. Dr gouge says no tickets of suffering are amplified because one flawed older population study got sensationalized. We were practicing in a climate of panic. Again, not position. So now 2025 news came in. FDA says enough. They initiated removal of these broad black box warnings on menopausal hormone therapy products, ditching the blanket scares about CV disease, breast cancer and dementia for most formulations, and why? Because there is a re analysis that happened, and then also timing hypothesis data showed safe beneficial under 60 or within 10 years of menopause, and expert panels showing that old warnings were over broadened and fear mongering was actually present, so labels now get age specific balance information. So no more handing out grenades here, and then for us integrative docs, we reclaim confidence. No more defensive 15 minute risk monologs. More time optimizing bioidenticals, lifestyle nutrients, pairing HRT with the root cause magic that we love, and the organization, organizations that were the cheerleaders of this move were actually a cog as we know it. And as long as long been advocating for the removal of the black box on low dose of vaginal estrogen, as it posed a significant barrier to treating GSM and then also menopause, society has consistently supported updating these labels. They emphasize low risk of appropriate selected younger, healthy women starting closer to menopause with higher risk in older women or those farther from onset, again, prioritizing and legalized discussion. So for patients Game Changer women trapped in the menopause trenches, sleepless, moody, achy, foggy, can now reclaim energy, sleep, libido, bones and brain without the ghost of 22 haunting every pill. So quality of life, explosion incoming, the hysteria era officially over. So let's toast to again, an evidence finally winning this battle. And then block boxes, dead, long, live, empowered, menopause, care, dad. Is your tip of the week? Okay?

Bill Clearfield  14:47
Well, there's still a lot of holes in the in the in the pie there. They're still, they still have the black box warning on estrogen, without, without progesterone,

Speaker 1  14:59
urine, cancer. So that's uterine cancer, if you

Bill Clearfield  15:03
have a uterus and Yeah. Then the only and the other thing is they also the FDA approved a generic Premarin because they anticipated a shortage of estradiol. So from the thing that caused the was one of the things that caused all the problems in the first place, right?

Speaker 1  15:23
The third one is the never hormonal, right?

Bill Clearfield  15:26
Premarin, ever, ever, ever,

Speaker 1  15:31
that's true. So again, the highlight there is, really, hey, it's still a win. We're going to take that as integrative docs, right?

Bill Clearfield  15:37
Take it, yeah, they don't. But one of the maddening things is, is, I don't know if you there's a, there's a there's a channel that it's called View Medi. It's sort of like YouTube for medical people. And, you know, it's videos, and some of the, some of the ones who are, who are, you know, denouncing us and bad mouthing us and telling us we were killing, killing women with, you know, with cancers are now the same. Ones are on there now, expounding on the wonders of estrogen for post menopausal treatment. The other thing is, they come up with something, something really novel, The the the time, the timing mechanism, the timing theory that you're only supposed to prescribe hormones with within 10 years of the onset of menopause, and after the age of 60, it's again, it's not right. It's not indicated. So if you're 65 years old, not had not had a not had any hormones and you're and you're having menopause symptoms, too bad. Basically, that's what they said, which is, again, nonsense.

Unknown Speaker  16:50
Well, you heard of the the 7 million women's

Bill Clearfield  16:53
study up to 10 by the time they published it, it was up to 10.

Speaker 1  16:57
Okay, so 10 million. It's now 10 million. Yeah, right. So that's the one that's advocating for the use of hormones over 65 it's one of the rare one, I guess, one of the sore thumbs that sticks out to support data for the for that use. But I'm sure it's still going to grow. So think Janet has something.

Speaker 4  17:19
Yeah, I just read, I just read that whole study, the 10 million, sorry, I'm talking my picture up here, and there's a lot more in it than that. But my question is in line with the safety profile for, you know, BHRT, or estrogen alone, or, you know, they have a patient coming in and you want, they want to start on HRT. I'm curious now what safety testing do you do to make sure that that person you know is safe to start BHRT, let's call her, you know, even if it's perimenopausal or menopausal woman, we always require a mammogram, pap smear on file, you know, and I do the testing for the, you know, PTH and the pituitary blood stuff, I'm mostly looking for cancers that I don't want to throw fuel on, but I'm curious to know what other people do to make sure The patient is safe. To start.

Bill Clearfield  18:19
HRT, well, pretty much what you, what you, what you have there. I mean, you know, we do it all.

Unknown Speaker  18:25
So any extra stuff that you do that I just mentioned,

Bill Clearfield  18:32
let me see so we do well, I always look at prolactin and pregnenolone, vitamin D, CRC, C, reactive protein, homocysteine, the esterone, estradiol, progesterone, testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin. This is just off the top of my head. Yeah, I'm just going down my order here. DHEA sulfate, IGF, one, are you doing that? All the thyroids, TSH, free t3 free t4 and antibodies, reverse t3 the TPO, anti thyroglobulin. If they have hyper symptoms, then we'll do the TSI, CBC, of course, and chem profile, hemoglobin, a 1c insulin, fasting insulin, I've started doing NTX urine, Spot urines, and I've started doing a spot urine iodines.

Unknown Speaker  19:35
Also, what's the NTX for? Is

Bill Clearfield  19:39
for, is a bone resorption for osteoporosis.

Unknown Speaker  19:44
So you do this on everybody without necessary symptoms, like,

Speaker 4  19:52
yeah, see, I only do pregnant alone, like, on patients that look like they're deficient or have a history that's deficient.

Bill Clearfield  19:59
Nope, you'd be surprised how many are deficient and and, you know, don't look at, look at, I'd say, and again, it depends. I think it might have something to do with what I do. And Dr Tanner, you probably can relate to this. Also. We're going to get to you here in

Benoit Tano  20:14
a minute. Dr Tanner, personally,

Bill Clearfield  20:18
at least 1/3 of the new patients who come in to see me that don't know it, have positive thyroid antibodies I always run that I don't know if it's because of what I do or it's where we live. You know, we are downwind from where the nuclear testing was done.

Benoit Tano  20:34
And actually, Dr clearface is worldwide. It's not even the US alone with the Hashimotos and great disease. It's a worldwide,

Bill Clearfield  20:44
and we do so I do it. Sometimes do, well, we'll do a hair screening sometimes for environmental, you know, just just as a screen one, I shouldn't say 100% 95% of the patients that I've done hair follicle testing one have uranium levels off, off the chart, yep. So I don't know what to do about it, but it's there.

Unknown Speaker  21:08
It's can't chelate that, probably.

Bill Clearfield  21:11
So how about you? Dr Nario, you, yeah.

Speaker 1  21:16
So in relation to cancer, that was your specific question.

Speaker 4  21:19
That's my main, like, safety concern. I understand all the other stuff.

Speaker 1  21:24
So during hormone usage, I make sure, at least once a year I do a urine metabolite testing just to see if there's production of four, oh, and just predominance of more of two methoxy so those are, I mean, that's out of what Dr Bill mentioned, that's my kind of monitoring, type of testing, and everything that he did. And you also said, the breast mammograms, thermograms,

Bill Clearfield  21:50
you better. You better be doing that. You How long were you here with me?

Unknown Speaker  21:54
Well, I know I need to make sure

Bill Clearfield  21:57
now you've gone further, now that you're, you're Andrew, Andrew Wilder.

Speaker 4  22:01
And then, of course, if they're over five, you know, the colonoscopy stuff, like, yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  22:07
And I usually, I usually, you know, just my practice, I always want them to have a regular family doctor, because I don't want to do that stuff. Yeah.

Speaker 4  22:17
So, do you run all the like, do you run the labs yourself? Like, that's a lot of labs to run on somebody who's a new patient, yeah?

Bill Clearfield  22:25
Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, we'd give them a lab slip if they have

Unknown Speaker  22:30
vials on them. Sometimes,

Bill Clearfield  22:34
I'm well known around town for that. By the way, you go to any go to go to any drawing place, they all know. They all know who

Unknown Speaker  22:40
I am. Yeah, I try to pace it out sometimes,

Bill Clearfield  22:43
because and I tell, I tell them, I said, you know I can, I can think of more.

Speaker 4  22:48
Yeah, I hear you. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you very much.

Benoit Tano  22:52
Yeah, hormones, I'm actually one of the dissenting voice about estrogen, because I think our environment is completely littered with estrogens, and so adding more estrogen is not going to do a new one any good, especially if we know that post menopausal women still make estrogen. And if we follow the pathophysiology, we know that estrogen and estradiol and to convert, so why do we have to give them more estrogen if they don't have any symptoms? I personally don't give anybody estrogen unless they're thin and they're having some hot flashes. I give them progesterone, and it's not helping. Then I give them bias. But other than that, I really don't give them any estrogen at all. I feel

Speaker 4  23:45
the same way. I don't have to give estrogen to most women because they have so many other sources of it. The urine metabolites are really important.

Benoit Tano  23:55
But the urine metabolites is not the most accurate, by the way,

Unknown Speaker  23:59
dosage, but for what to bring out.

Benoit Tano  24:01
Do Nova used to have one, which was the blood test they used to do the two hydroxy has tried, and 16 alpha hydroxy has tried by blood. And in May 2021, I think they stopped it, and they haven't done that since. Now, I tested the current urine one, and it doesn't give me hardly any good result at all. And so I'm not sure if a Dutch test does a better job than the other ones, but I personally don't have faith in the urine metabolites.

Speaker 5  24:35
I have an opinion that is a little different of what you're saying. I think every single cell in the body has positive estrogen receptors, and those estrogen receptors are there, created by nature to to meet with our bioidentical hormones. That is mainly estradiol. That is the main estrogen our body needs. Of course, we produce estrogen also, I mean estrogen, but the ideal estrogenic product in the human body to meet the needs of the receptors is estrodiol. And if we don't offer that, that a pharmacological option to perimenopausal and post menopausal women, those cells are going to absorb the estrogen, the environmental estrogens like a sponge, and is those women are not being given a service. They are letting them get contaminated with environmental estrogens. I think we need to have a responsibility of offering bioidentical estradiol and bioidentical estriol in doses that are low to normal, like point six to five of estradiol and one milligram or 1.5 milligrams of estriol, plus the progesterone, the natural micronized progesterone, on everybody, instead of letting those Xeno estrogens to come in to create a revolt in the human body, that that actually will end up affecting the genes and creating more possibilities of cancer. I think estrogens, real estrogens and real microized progesterone are protective against environment because the receptors will accept more readily the the natural estrogen and the natural progesterone than the environmental xenoestrogens.

Speaker 4  27:10
So how do you know whether or not to give them estrogen or not? Is it just by

Speaker 5  27:16
irregular cycles and it doesn't have good estrogen levels throughout the month that you can measure with the saliva test.

Speaker 4  27:27
What about endogenous estradiol that comes from adipose tissue?

Speaker 5  27:33
It says estrogen. It's estrogen from adipose is, is most you can measure it, but it's mostly estrogen is not estradiol and and the most important estrogen in the human body who actually works in the brain cells, in the neurons where there are multiple receptor sites, is estradiol that plays the role of a neurotransmitter. Their natural clumps of neural cells in the brain exclusively for the production of estradiol. Why are they there?

Benoit Tano  28:16
I have followed the evolution of estrogen replacement back in the old days, even a day for him, when you go there. So it give two milligram, three milligram, etc, and then progressively. So these are too high. It's dangerous. So they reduced it to one milligram. What does one milligram of biased, which is 80% estradiol and 20% estradiol is going to do against xenoestrogen. It cannot, but xenoestrogen has so much that one milligram or point two milligram of estradiol is not going to do any squat for these women, because

Speaker 5  29:02
your opinion, yeah, your opinion. I have my opinion. I have my patients. My patients have done very well. Have aged very well, and you have to give me some credit about that.

Benoit Tano  29:19
Oh, no, I do. I'm not saying against you. I'm saying, over time, people have changed their ideas about estradiol. They keep on going.

Speaker 5  29:29
They have not point two milligram, they have not measured the cycle. They have not they have no idea. They have an idea that women need to be replaced with estradiol and progesterone, but they don't have the patience to do a monthly cycle in any of them, so they have nuclear

Benoit Tano  29:54
so Dr Bill, I think a business topic, maybe it would be a good idea for us to have a round table and discover discuss a hormone replacement, especially estradiol, versus all these other hormone that we're talking about, because there's so many ideas about it and differences. Why don't

Bill Clearfield  30:19
we plan that for a couple of weeks, and we can plan it out. Okay, yeah, right.

Speaker 5  30:24
What? What dose are you giving your patients? What dose and you said you're cycling them? Are these postmenopausal women that you're cycling three menopause or menopausal women I give them either I give them a cream. But not everybody has absorption because of the different layers and the epithelium, not every cream gets absorbed. So some women respond to two capsules. So I use capsules and I use creams, and many of them end up using the capsules and then use the cream at least every other day for the peri vaginal area. So and the dose is, usually point six to five of estradiol to to one milligram of estradiol, depending on the person. But usually is, is point three milligrams. If they use half a I am talking about point six to five milligrams of estradiol per gram of cream. So if they use two clicks, that is equivalent to point three milligrams of estradiol, and many of them do very well with that little amount, and is enough to keep them balanced. And the dose if, if patients receive a higher dose of estradiol, like one milligram, 1.2 1.2 milligrams of estradiol and 1.5 milligrams of estradiol in a form of a cream or in a capsule, then they need to be cycled. That means that they have to be cycled with the progesterone also and for a for a week, they they will not be taking hormones, and they will cycle when they have a higher dose. And that is a good thing. And there are women who are, I have some women who are in their past, their 60s, and they have had normal endometrial biopsies and normal normal dncs For polyps, and they're still cycling, and they're okay and they look beautiful.

Speaker 4  32:53
Comment on Dr Tano is suggestion that we have a roundtable on this be a great discussion. And I'm also want to suggest that perhaps we can start with like that latest study that was done, the 10 million women on Medicare. I think there's the population.

Bill Clearfield  33:13
April 7 would be a lovely time for it. You're on, you got that assignment,

Speaker 4  33:20
and then April 7. And I guess I'd like to know if there's any other like, I guess you can't go crazy with all of the studies, but if there's any study, or, you know, accumulation of studies that you're hanging on to that you feel like really affects your decisions, I guess you could email that to me, maybe use that as a framework, because I feel like if we just say, I do this, and you do that, and I do this, I do that, it's kind of overwhelming, and I think if we just start with what we think are the best studies out there, might give us a better framework, and then go into why you decide to do certain things.

Bill Clearfield  34:00
All right. Dr Berger, you're on. Dr Tano, you're on. Dr Cerner, you're on. April 7. April 7, those are our leaders, okay, if you can make it. Dr Tano, I don't mean to

Benoit Tano  34:13
Yeah, I think it would be good too, because I've been looking at this, these presentations, people talk about replacing estradiol. They keep on doing replacing estradiol. But I'm not sure if people are aware of the magnitude of environmental estradiol. We're dealing with estradiol. They're not benign. But, you know, we see a young girl, 13 year old. They have polycystic ovaries. Why? Or if they had estradiol, why do they have polycystic ovaries with a Vasin estradiol? That means the xenotrogen is actually dangerous, and they're doing some bad things for women. Know that? Yeah.

Speaker 4  34:57
Well, I think there's more to it than that. Here's I'll throw, I'll throw a

Bill Clearfield  35:01
little, another little nugget out, and then we'll let Doctor Tano take the floor here, estradiol, estrogen positive and estradiol negative receptors are not what you think they mean. Oh, I'm just going to leave it at that. Okay, you know, I can't have, I can't. I can't take estradiol because I'm a estrogen positive I have estradiol positive receptors. It's not what you think it needs. It's not what it sounds like. I'm just going to leave it at that. All right. Dr, Tano, you're on All right. Do we need to do we can introduce you at all? I don't know. Nobody. Nobody knows. Nobody knows who you are. You know when you get, when you when you get your haircut, you take sort of whole different look there. So I think everybody knows who you are. You probably the smartest guy in the room.

Benoit Tano  35:54
So today we're going to change the gears a little bit. Everybody is talking about AI in medicine. There's no meeting you go to now where people don't talk about AI in medicine. So I have looked at the functional medicine arena, what people see all the time in terms of medications, conventional medicine versus functional medicine, what medications are doing to people, what is going on with depletion of nutrients when you are in a conventional medicine. So I thought I would create an app to see when we talk about polypharmacy, what these medications are doing to us. If we take supplements, you go to any meeting, you have all these group of supplement manufacturers, they're saying that they have the best supplements versus this and that, what is the truth? So the app that I have, I call it, tire pro Med, and that app goes deep and explains a lot of things, where we can figure out exactly what is going on in the body when we take all these supplements, and if we have a condition, what is the conventional medicine treatment versus the functional medicine treatment versus traditional medicine treatment such as traditional Chinese medicine, Ayurvedic medicine, all of those things, modalities are put together in one place where people can have access to it. So I would like to see, I want to play a webinar that I have created. And the webinar actually walks you through the program, walks you through the website, the app, if it works, it will be great. So let me here. Do you do you all see my screen? Yes, yeah. Okay, good. So we're going to go to be education. If you go to under education, we have a lot of things. They have my lessons. By the way, this app allows you to create your own lessons, any subject you want to learn. You can type in the topic and say, Hey, create me lectures based on that. So if I want to learn functional medicine, I can say, I would like to learn functional medicine. So then I can create a functional medicine practice. Give me all the most important lesson that I need to learn, and it will create a whole modules and everything for you. So then you can start learning from here, videos, some videos, you can create webinars. So this allows you to create webinars as well. So if you have any SaaS or software as a service, and you want to show to people. You can create webinars directly here, and it will be narrated. That's what I used to create the web be a webinar that I wanted to show you learning progress. You can create more. It's not only medicine, anything you're interested in, if you're interested in engineering and you want to learn engineering, now you have a capacity of creating courses in engineering and learning you want quantum medicine, quantum physics, you're going to do it here. You can do it book writing, that's very, very important. Those of you who are interested in writing books, you can actually create books using this software. If you click on that, it would ask you your topic. Once you have your topic, you can actually write the whole book with this software. It's a formatted ready to be published on Amazon. There are two methods that I we used. We use the Socratic method. You know, most of you who have heard me speak, I don't really do a straight lecture. I do question and answer the Socratic method, and I have incorporated that here. So if you want to write a book that would ask question and then provide the answer to students or anybody, then you can do that certification. You can do certification courses. You can do CMEs, I mean, a lot of things that we can do here. So I'm going to click on the webinar and see it comes up. So when I click on the webinar, I have created two webinars, but one of them here is the one that will play for us.

Speaker 6  40:51
Hey, everyone, Dr Benoit Tano here, and if you're a medical practitioner, physician or clinician, tired of the endless paperwork, the information overload and the feeling that you're always falling behind, then you are in the exact right place. Now, what if I told you there's a way to unlock your Practice's True Potential to deliver world class care and practically automate your entire operations. Today, I'm going to show you exactly how to do that with TayaproMed. Ai pro this isn't just another software. It's a revolution for your practice. Get ready to have your mind blown now, let me tell you, I don't want to waste your time, and I know you don't want to waste mine. So here's the roadmap for today. We're going to dive deep into four critical secrets that will fundamentally change how you view and run your medical practice. These are secrets that only a handful of cutting edge practices even know about, let alone implement. And I promise you, if you stick with me until the very end, I've got something special for you, a gift that will kick start your journey. So grab your notes, buckle up, because we're about to go on a ride. So how did tayapromedai Pro even come to be well, let me tell you my story, and I bet a lot of you will relate to this. I saw countless practitioners, brilliant minds getting bogged down. The burnout was real, the sheer volume of new information, the administrative hoops, the EHR systems that felt like they were designed to slow you down. It was maddening. Technology was supposed to make things easier, but most of it just added more complexity. I kept thinking, there has to be a better way. What if we could build a true AI co pilot for practitioners, and that, my friends, was the aha moment that sparked TayaproMed Ai. Now, let's get real for a second. We've all been there. The medical grind is relentless. Think about it. How much new research, how many new protocols, new drugs come out every single day. It's literally impossible to keep up and all that administrative work that's time taken away from what you love, helping patients, the fear of making a mistake, the pressure to grow your practice in a competitive landscape, and let's not forget, finding time for your own education, for your family, for yourself, it's a recipe for burnout. But what if I told you there's a way to break free? So here's the thing, the solution isn't to work harder, it's to work smarter. It's about leveraging the most powerful technology on the planet, artificial intelligence, to be your co pilot, TayaproMed. Ai pro isn't just a band aid. It's a complete ecosystem. It's your AI superpower. Imagine mastering any medical knowledge, instantly automating those soul crushing workflows, becoming the go to expert in your field, and, most importantly, delivering patient care at a level you only dreamed of. This is about reclaiming your time, reigniting your passion, and transforming your practice from the inside out. All right, let's dive into secret number one. This is where the magic really begins. Imagine having the collective knowledge of every medical journal, every textbook, every clinical trial, instantly at your fingertips, and not just at your fingertips, but analyzed and synthesized for you. That's what universal AI search gives you now pair that with an AI that interprets complex lab results, flagging anomalies and suggesting clinical recommendations, and a Polypharmacy checker that prevents dangerous drug interactions before they happen. This isn't just information, it's intelligence. It's like having a team of brilliant researchers and clinical pharmacologists working for you. 24/7, this is how you elevate patient safety and diagnostic accuracy to an entirely new level. Now let's talk about the universal AI search. This isn't your daddy's Google. We're talking about a parallel multi model AI running on both Gemini and GPT five architecture. Think about that for a second. It's like having two of the world's smartest brains simultaneously digging through every piece of medical literature, every journal, every guideline, instantly. And it doesn't just find results. It Synthesizes them. It gives you actionable insights, not just a list of links. How much time do you spend sifting through research? Now, imagine getting those answers in seconds, fully referenced, always up to date. This feature alone is a game changer, but it's not just about finding answers. It's about preventing problems. That's where two other core pieces of AI clinical intelligence come in. Our Polypharmacy checker doesn't just list interactions. It gives you severity heat maps

Speaker 6  45:48
at a glance. You know the risk. How many times have you wished you had an instant second opinion on a complex medication regimen? And then there's the lab interpreter, no more scratching your head over nuanced lab results, the AI analyzes them, flags abnormals and provides context and suggested clinical next steps. This is about protecting your patients, minimizing errors, and giving you the confidence to make the best possible decisions every single time. All right. Secret number two, this is all about reclaiming your Tim, eliminating the dreaded administrative burden and making your practice run like a well oiled machine. How many hours a week do you spend on notes, on scheduling, on chasing down paperwork? Imagine an AI scribe that not only transcribes your patient encounters in real time, but understands over 66 languages. It's like having the world's fastest, most accurate assistant in every single consultation. Then combine that with a full fledged EHR, robust patient management and an AI powered soap note generator that virtually writes your notes for you. This isn't just automation, it's liberation. This is how you spend less time clicking and more time caring. Let's be honest. Documentation is a beast. It's soul sucking. It takes you away from your patients. But what if that changed? Our AI Scribe is not just a voice to text tool. This is intelligent, contextual transcription, working in over 66 languages. It proactively helps you build your patient notes in real time, understanding the medical context. Imagine finishing your patient encounter, and your soap note is practically written for you. No more staying late, no more weekend catch up sessions. This is about giving you back those precious hours every single day so you can focus on what truly matters providing exceptional care. Now an AI Scribe is nothing without a robust system to put all that amazing information. That's where our comprehensive patient management and EHR comes in. This isn't just a place to store data, it's your Practice's Digital Command Center from intuitive appointment scheduling and customizable intake forms to a full fledged EHR that pulls everything together, it's all here, and the treatment plan builder AI powered making sure your plans are evidence based and personalized. This system makes sure you're always organized, always efficient and always in control, no more scattered information. Everything you need is just a click away. All right, on to secret number three. This is how you become the undisputed authority in your niche, how you educate not just yourself, but your community and even your fellow practitioners. How much time would it take you to write a 6000 word university level lesson on a complex medical topic, hours, days, our AI lesson generator does it for you, complete with clinical MCQs. Then take that knowledge, pop it into our evergreen webinar system and let the AI auto narrate and even stack offers. Imagine having an entire Tayapro University under your brand offering CME credits and certifications and for the ultimate authority, grab our AI book writer helps you author your own medical books. This isn't just about learning, it's about leading. It's about building your legacy. Now let's really unpack this. The AI lesson generator is an absolute beast. You give it a topic, say, Advanced Functional Medicine, approaches to autoimmunity and boom, it generates a 6000 8000 word university level lesson, complete with learning objectives and clinical multiple choice questions. Think about the value here, but it doesn't stop there. Take that incredible content, feed it into the Evergreen webinar system, and it will generate an entire webinar, complete with auto narration and even a pre built offer stack. You can educate your patients, train your staff, even create courses for other practitioners, all on autopilot. This is about multiplying your knowledge and impact without multiplying your effort. But what if you want to take it even further? What if you want to be the recognized authority, the one people turn to for cutting edge knowledge? Tayapro University lets you do exactly that. You can create and offer your own CME accredited courses issuing certifications directly under your Practice's brand. Imagine the credibility, then for the ultimate authority statement, our AI book writer, it helps you generate full length medical books, positioning you as not just a practitioner, but a published author and thought leader. This isn't just about growing your practice, it's about building your brand, expanding your influence, and creating entirely new revenue streams based on your expertise. It's all for naught. That's why secret nephor is so critical. Built in marketing and growth. clinical skills and. everything you need to grow your practice without needing to hire a separate marketing team or patch together a dozen different tools. We're talking an Autoresponder, funnel builder, landing pages, even a practice directory and referral programs. And that book writer I mentioned, that's not just for authority, it's a lead magnet powerhouse. This is how you take your incredible work and get it in front of more people, multiplying your impact and your income. Let me ask you something. How are you attracting new patients right now? Are you relying on word of mouth alone? That's great, but it's not scalable. With TayaproMed Ai, we give you the tools to proactively grow your practice. Our built in Autoresponder handles all your patient communication, from appointment reminders to Evergreen newsletters, nurturing your audience. The funnels and landing page builder lets you create high converting pages to introduce new services, offer free guides, or even host your AI generated webinars. This is about putting your marketing on autopilot so you can consistently attract new patients and build deeper relationships with your existing ones, all from one place. And let's not forget the power of community and collaboration we've built in a robust community forum where you can connect with other forward thinking practitioners, share insights and get support, plus your public profile in our practitioner directory means new patients can find you, boosting your visibility. But it gets even better, we've integrative, powerful referral and affiliate programs so you can leverage part ar aaaoaa, a growthaoa, change, expand your referrals and scale your impact. All right, so we've covered the four core secrets to transforming your medical practice with AI. You've seen the power of AI clinical intelligence, the efficiency of complete practice management, the authority of our education and certification engine and the growth potential of our built in marketing. Now, I know you're probably thinking, Dr Tano, this sounds incredible, but how do I get my hands on all of this? Well, my friends, this is where it gets exciting, because I'm not just offering you one tool or two, I'm offering you the entire TayaproMed ai pro stack. Get ready, because I'm about to show you everything you're getting piece by piece. First up in the stack we have the core of your AI intelligence, the AI clinical Intelligence Suite. This is huge. Remember that universal AI search with Gemini and GPT five that's in there, the AI Lab interpreter that gives you clinical recommendations that's in there, and the powerful root cause analysis. Yep, that too. If you were to try and buy these critical tools separately, just for this level of AI research and diagnostic support, you'd be looking at a minimum of $2,997 per month. This is the foundation that transforms how you make clinical decisions. You get all of it next in the stack. We're talking about your entire operational backbone. This is the comprehensive practice management system, your full EHR appointment scheduling that respects your time, customizable intake forms to gather exactly what you need. And the smart treatment plan builder. Think about the peace of mind knowing all your patient data, all your scheduling, all your treatment workflows are unified, secure and smart. To get a system this robust, this integrative, with this level of AI insight, you'd easily pay $1,097 a month if you found anything even close to it, but you get it as part of the stack. All right, let's add another layer to this incredible stack, the AI scribe and soap note generator. This is where you literally get back hours of your life every single day, the real time, multilingual scribe that understands your medical conversations, seamlessly generating your SOAP Notes, no more staying late, no more catching up on weekends. This one feature, just the time it saves and the accuracy it provides, would easily cost you $997

Speaker 6  55:20
per month for a standalone solution that's nowhere near as integrative, but for you, my friend, it's included. Now let's stack on the medical education engine. This isn't just about managing your practice. It's about amplifying your expertise. The AI lesson generator, creating university level content in minutes. The Evergreen webinar system, so you can educate and acquire patients on autopilot. And the AI book writer, turning your knowledge into published authority. If you want to create courses, host webinars, or write a book, that's a huge investment of time and money. Agencies charge 1000s per webinar. Instructional Designers charge 1000s per course. To get all these tools integrated, you'd be looking at $1,997 a month easily, but you're getting it. But wait, there's even more building on that education engine. You get the Tayapro University, Cerner's program. This isn't just about sharing knowledge. It's about formalizing it, legitimizing it, and turning it into a recognized credential. Imagine being able to offer CME credits to issue Cerner's under your own Practice's name. This builds incredible trust and authority. Setting up a fully accredited system for CME is horrendously complex and expensive, probably nine and $97 a month just for the infrastructure to manage it. But guess what? It's all part of the TayaproMed ai pro stack for you. All right, let's keep stacking Next up you get access to our cutting edge 500 plus medication and supplement database. This isn't just a list, it's a living, breathing, evidence based resource. We're talking Bayesian updated evidence scores, detailed profiles, clinical considerations and full integration with the polypharmacy checker. How much time do you spend vetting new supplements or cross referencing medication efficacy? This database does it for you, a standalone, high quality, constantly updated resource like this could easily be $497 a month just for access, but it's part of your TayaproMed ai pro package. We touched on this before, but it deserves its own place in the stack. Value, the Evergreen webinar system. This is your patient acquisition and education machine running 24/7 Imagine having an AI create your webinar content, script and auto narrate themata, all while integrative offer stacks designed to convert this is a lead generating authority, building powerhouse to build out a system like this yourself or pay a webinar agency. It's easily 990 $7 a month, just for the technology and ongoing management. But for you, it's just another piece of the puzzle. And speaking of lead generation, let's add the built in Autoresponder and funnels. This is your complete marketing automation. No more juggling separate email marketing platforms, landing page builders and funnel software. It's all integrative, right here. Build beautiful landing pages, craft engaging email sequences and create entire patient acquisition funnels with drag and drop ease. If you've ever tried to piece together these tools, you know, it's a headache and very expensive. A comparable full stack marketing suite would set you back at least $497 a month, but you get it seamlessly integrated. Let's keep going. You also get access to our constantly evolving chronic disease protocols. This isn't just a basic guideline. These are AI generated evidence based protocols for a wide range of chronic conditions with options for personalization based on individual patient needs. How much time do you spend building and refining your own protocols or researching the latest best practices? This resource alone ensures you're consistently providing gold standard care, reducing your research time significantly. The value of having these at your fingertips, constantly updated is immense. This is easily worth $997 a month on its own, but it's yours. And rounding out the core offer, we have the community forum and directory. This is about connection, collaboration and leveraging the power of a network. The private forum allows you to engage with other forward thinking practitioners, share insights and get support, and your listing in the public practitioner directory means new patients can find you the ability to network, refer and be referred, plus the potential for affiliate earnings. This is invaluable. If you've ever tried to build a professional network, you know how hard it is. The value of this community and lead source is easily $297 a month. But you get it all All right, so let's tally this up. If you were to go out tomorrow and try to piece together this level of AI practice management, education and marketing, if you could even find it which you can't, you're looking at $2,097 for AI clinical, 1000 197 for practice. Management. Nine, 990 $7 for the scribe. $1,097 for the education engine. 990 $7 for the Cerner's $497 for the database. 990 $7 for webinars. $497 for Autoresponder. $997 for book writer, $497 for Polypharmacy, nine to $97 for patient portal, and $297 for the community. This isn't just a value, it's an absurd value. Think about it. We're talking a grand total of over $15,000 per month. If you tried to get this all separately. Now, that's already an Cerner's stack, right? But I know there are some of you on this webinar who are not just tire kickers, you're action takers. You're ready to transform your practice right now, and for those of you, I've got some absolutely insane fast action bonuses that are going to make this offer irresistible. These are not for everyone. These are for the committed. For the implementers. These bonuses are designed to give you an unfair advantage to fast track your success even further. But you have to be quick, because these are limited and they will go away. All right. Bonus number one, for those who jump on this today. Priority AI model access. This means you get access to our cutting edge AI models, the new iterations, the new features, before anyone else. You'll be able to test them, give feedback and truly shape the future of medical AI. How much would it be worth to always be two, three steps ahead of every other practitioner in your field to have the absolute latest intelligence. This isn't just a perk, it's an unfair advantage. This alone is worth 990, $7 in future innovation every single month, and you get it absolutely free when you act now. But we're not stopping there. Bonus number two, done for you. Clinic templates. I know you're busy, so we're making it easy for you. We're giving you a library of pre built, high converting templates, intake forms, treatment plans, email automation sequences and ready to launch landing page designs. No more staring at a blank screen. Just plug and play. This eliminates weeks of setup time, gets you live faster, and ensures you're leveraging best practices from day one, I've personally paid consultants 1000s for these kinds of templates. This is easily a 1000 for $497 value just handed to you to get started immediately, and for those of you who click that button right now, before it's too late, I'm adding a special fast action bonus, a one on one platform setup call. This is directly with one of our TayaproMed ai experts. This isn't a group training. This is your practice, your specific needs, your optimal setup, we'll walk you through everything, ensuring you hit the ground running with absolute confidence. This personalized white glove service is something we normally charge $497 for, but if you act fast and beat the clock, it's absolutely free for you. This is about making sure you succeed without any bottlenecks. And last, but certainly not least, bonus number three, and this one is huge for every single practitioner here, lifetime CME, credit tracking. How many of you stress about keeping track of your continuing medical education credits, the hours, the reports, the compliance? It's a constant headache. With this bonus, our system will automatically track all your CME activities, your Tayapro university courses, and generate reports for your licensing renewals. This is true peace of mind. The value of this alone in save time, reduced stress, and ensuring compliance for your entire career is easily $2,997 it's yours for free when you get the TayaproMed ai pro stack today. So let's look at this whole thing now. We're talking about the entire TayaproMed ai pro stack valued at over $15,000 per month, if you could even piece it together, plus these incredible bonuses, priority AI access for 990 $7 done for you. Templates for $1,097 the one on one setup call for $497

Speaker 6  1:05:01
and lifetime. CME tracking for 2000 on $997 we're talking an actual, real world value that is off the charts. This is an undeniable, absolutely unbeatable offer. If you're serious about transforming your practice, saving time, boosting patient outcomes and growing your influence, this is it. Don't just take my word for it. Let's hear from Dr Emily Chen, a functional medicine practitioner who was on the brink of burnout. She was drowning in paperwork, struggling to keep up with research, and felt her passion slipping away. She started using tayapromedai Pro and listen to this. She reduced her documentation time by a staggering 70% she actually increased her patient load by 20% without feeling more overwhelmed. She even used the AI lesson generator to create and launch a successful online course, expanding her reach and revenue. She told me directly Dr Tano TayaproMed, ai didn't just save my practice, it gave me my life back. That's the power we're talking about. And then there's Dr David Patel, a primary care physician who felt overwhelmed by the sheer volume of new information and the constant threat of medical errors. He implemented TayaproMed ai Pro and saw his diagnostic accuracy soar thanks to the universal AI search and lab interpreter, he specifically told us how the Polypharmacy checker prevented three potentially critical drug interactions for his patients. His practice flow is smoother than ever, and he's even leveraged the practitioner directory to build a robust local referral network. He's now a recognized leader in his community, and it's all thanks to the unprecedented insights and efficiency. TayaproMed ai provides. These are real results, real lives changed. These aren't isolated incidents. We have over 2500 practitioners, just like you all across the globe, who are absolutely raving about tayapromedai Pro they're consistently rating us five stars. They're endorsing us, to their colleagues, and they're seeing real, measurable results in their practices and in their lives. This isn't just hype, it's a movement. This is the future of medicine, right here, right now. And these practitioners didn't hesitate. They saw the opportunity, and they seized it. Don't fall behind. Join the revolution. Now, I know what you might be thinking. You've seen the incredible value, you've heard the success stories, but perhaps a few questions are bubbling up in your mind. That's totally normal. I've been doing this long enough to know what the common objections are, and I want to address them head on, no smoke and mirrors. Here we're going to tackle the tough questions, because I want you to feel 100% confident that this is the right decision for your practice. So let's talk through these common concerns and clear the path for your success First up, and rightfully so. Is it HIPAA compliant? Absolutely 100% this is non negotiable for us. We've baked HIPAA compliance into the very architecture of TayaproMed ai pro your patient data is secured with end to end encryption, housed on secure servers and subjected to regular, rigorous security audits. We understand the critical importance of patient privacy and data integrity. This isn't just a feature, it's a fundamental principle of how we operate. So you can use tayapromedai with complete peace of mind, knowing your practice and your patients are protected. Okay, next up, Dr Tano, I'm just not that tech savvy. Is this going to be too complicated for me? Excellent question. We designed TayaproMed ai pro with busy practitioners in mind, the interface is intuitive. It's mostly point and click, drag and drop, simple. You don't need to be a programmer. Plus, we have an extensive knowledge base, video tutorials for every feature, and a fantastic support team. And remember that fast action bonus, that one on one platform setup call that's specifically designed to get you comfortable and confident, tailored to your practice. We hold your hand every step of the way. If you can use a smartphone, you can use TayaproMed AI, and finally, a very common one. How is this different from Epic or Cerner? Great question, and it highlights a key distinction. Epic and Cerner's are primarily electronic medical records, EMRs, they're fantastic for record keeping billing and large hospital systems. TayaproMed, Ai, however, is an AI powered ecosystem. It goes far beyond just record keeping. It provides cutting edge AI clinical intelligence, a full medical education engine and built in marketing and growth tools, while it includes robust EHR capabilities. Its core mission is to empower you with AI for better insights, massive efficiency and exponential practice growth. It can either complement your existing EMRs or replace smaller, less integrated systems. We're talking intelligence and growth, not just records. All right, so we've cleared the air. The excuses are gone. The path to transforming your practice with AI is crystal clear. You've seen the value, you've heard the stories, you understand the magnitude of what TayaproMed ai Pro can do for you. The question now isn't if it's when are you going to keep doing things the old, exhausting way, or are you ready to embrace the future? Are you ready to reclaim your life, deliver unparalleled care and grow your practice exponentially. This is your moment. So let's talk about the investment. Get ready now, as I showed you, the combined value of all these incredible tools, systems and bonuses is easily over $20,000 per month, if you could even piece them together separately. That's not some arbitrary number. That's the real world investment you'd be making for this level of technology and support. Think about what a $20,000 per month value could do for your practice, for your patients, for your life. You wouldn't blink an eye at acquiring a new piece of medical equipment for 50,000 or $100,000 if it meant saving lives and massively improving your practice, this is easily on that level of investment, if not more, considering the ongoing value. But here's the thing, while the market value is easily over $20,000 per month, I don't want price to be the reason you miss out on this transformation. My mission is to empower as many practitioners as possible to embrace this future. So for everyone on this webinar, and for a very limited time, you're not going to pay 20,000 you're not going to pay 5000 not even $1,000 you get all of this, the entire TayaproMed ai pro stack, all the bonuses, everything we've talked about today for an investment that is almost unbelievable. Get ready that's right for everything you've seen today, the universal AI search, the AI scribe, the education engine, the entire practice management system, all the bonuses you get, it all for just $497 a month. Think about that. That's a tiny fraction of the true value. What does saving hours a day mean to you? What does preventing a critical drug interaction mean to your patient? What does becoming a published author or offering CME credits mean for your career? This is an investment that pays for itself countless times over. And here's the best part, it's a seven day free trial. You get full access to everything. You can cancel anytime, no questions asked. There is absolutely zero risk. Click the button below, claim your spot and start your free trial now. Now let me be crystal clear about this. There's no risk involved. This isn't one of those free trials that's impossible to cancel. We stand by the power of tayapromedai Pro so much that we know once you start using it, you won't want to go back that seven day free trial gives you full unrestricted access to every feature, every bonus, everything for an entire week, if for any reason at all you're not absolutely blown away. If it doesn't transform your practice in the ways I've promised, simply cancel within seven days and you won't pay a single dime. You literally have nothing to lose and an entire practice revolution to gain. Click the button you deserve this. But here's the kicker, my friends, because of the white glove service, especially that one on one setup call, we cannot offer these bonuses indefinitely, the priority AI model access, the done for you, templates, the lifetime CME tracking, and especially that personalized one on one setup call, these are resources and time that are limited. We can only accommodate a certain number of new users with these incredible extras. This isn't some false scarcity. This is real. If you leave this webinar and come back tomorrow, these bonuses might be gone. You need to act now to secure every single one of them. The clock is ticking.

Benoit Tano  1:14:30
So okay, so this is the webinar that I created with the system. Let me just do this one here. I created this webinar with the system itself. I'm not selling you anything. I just want to thank you for listening to this long webinar. But I just wanted to show you what the system is capable of doing. Meaning, if you create anything and you want to promote that, you can use this system and within couple of phrases, it creates all this webinar for you will be narration with everything with it. For me, I mean, no brainer is like a very good thing to do to promote all your clinics and everything else that you have to do. But now I will show you some of the features of what we have, so then we can play with it. If you have questions, I can answer those questions before we'll go play with some of the features of the taylormed.

Speaker 3  1:15:38
Dr Tano. Can I ask a question real quick? Yes, just something that's like mandated by a lot of insurance companies. Is that digital prescriptions? I'm just curious if this platform, because he didn't mention anything about digital

Benoit Tano  1:15:56
Yeah, we did in bible camp. This is something we can incorporate easily. We have another platform that we're trying to integrative with this one that you can do all your digital prescription and will go directly to the pharmacy

Speaker 3  1:16:09
I see, but it's not included in what they're this package here.

Benoit Tano  1:16:14
Yeah, it's not included, but I will include, I mean, like I said, we already have another platform that does a whole lot more than this one.

Speaker 3  1:16:24
Yes, it can incorporate other platforms that will do the digital prescriptions. That's great. All right, one last thing, just this is more of a comment, and I think your little webinar was very indicative of this issue that I have with artificial intelligence, and that is, it is incredibly repetitive, and if you ask it to write things, sometimes it just can be extremely repetitive, and it went once it's you have you have that writing tool, and I write a lot of medical reports, and I need an AI that can actually learn from me and not forget what I'm doing. And it's very hard to find that with HIPAA compliance, too, because the HIPAA compliant AI's are really horrible because they immediately forget everything you try to teach it, it goes back to the same.

Benoit Tano  1:17:25
Yeah. So so this one definitely when you write the books, it doesn't repeat itself, because we have built in a system to tell him not to repeat itself. Yeah, the webinar was done on purpose because when you do the value stacking, to repeat the value stacking, and that's why you can hear him

Speaker 3  1:17:48
repeat, sure, but you also put you put people to sleep. It kind of creates, like memorizes their brain, and you start getting hypnotized with this AI repetition. And it kind of drills into your brain, right? But it does what you're saying is it will learn from you. Well, yes, the writer, the writer portion can start writing in your writing style, correct?

Benoit Tano  1:18:13
Yeah. So the longer you do, I mean, the more you if you do couple books, three books, and all of a sudden it recognizes you. Even if you start saying it's a create a bio, it creates your bio, not somebody else's bio.

Speaker 3  1:18:27
Got it, I understand. Thank you very much. Very interesting.

Benoit Tano  1:18:31
Yeah, any other questions before we do some demonstration here? Like I said, this is not to sell you anything. I'm not selling you anything. I've just wanted to play so when you see what our system can do, and it went through everything that you see on the menu. I told you about the supplements, the medication, the Polypharmacy, the surge, the education portion, yes, Dr Nario,

Speaker 1  1:19:03
so you mentioned about creation of your own CME accredited lectures. So would that be immediately connected to a CME accreditation body or Yes,

Benoit Tano  1:19:15
yes process. Now that is correct. So we, we are trying to work with a company to offer the CMEs through here. So not yet. That's not offered yet, yeah, so yeah, not yet, but it will be okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:30
Is this a CRM?

Benoit Tano  1:19:33
Yeah, see, I had you had a CRM yet? Yes, it does, because the Autoresponder allows you to do that.

Speaker 7  1:19:41
But exactly what is a CRM? Because I hear so many times

Benoit Tano  1:19:46
custom something, so it's custom management. So all your customers, you manage them, people who subscribe you, you manage them through your CRM. Okay, thank you. Are there questions? Anything else

Bill Clearfield  1:20:05
about that? Dr Tano, we have leg breakers for that. So, no, nobody's, nobody's going to cheat you out of anything there. We can guarantee you

Unknown Speaker  1:20:15
that. So, right.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:18
So question was, what is the database used for the AI program?

Benoit Tano  1:20:24
Well, I used, so I created the this, but there are many AI app builders out there, and I used one of them to build this whole thing myself. But so there's one is called famous AI. I don't recommend that you use that, because they'll rip you off. There's one is called replete. You have lovable you have base 44 you have a lot of them. You can combine all of them and create a site like that. That would be working very nice.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:02
Well, I think the question is, what's is there? Is there one single AI,

Benoit Tano  1:21:07
no, so I mixed it up with a lot of a lot of them.

Bill Clearfield  1:21:11
Okay, can you run through a scenario here, like maybe Polypharmacy or something?

Benoit Tano  1:21:19
Yeah, Polypharmacy, yeah. Let's do the Polypharmacy. That's a good question. So when you come here Polypharmacy checker, it says, Add medication, right? So if I click here, suppose we have a diabetic patient who comes and then Metformin. So let me just put Metformin. When I click on it. You have to have at least two for it to do the analysis. And then, let's say, taking cholesterol medication they're on October, starting I do that.

Benoit Tano  1:22:03
If they're on, say, what else, hydroxychloroquine, blood pressure problem, or, actually, I'm going to do this one here. Sorry. Let me do a Polypharmacy from here. It's easier. So we have metformin and then we have Atorvastatin. Can you put in supplements? No, no, I will do the supplements afterwards. Okay, I'm just doing the medication. So we have Metformin tovastatin. Let's do hydroxyid. Hydroxy and say Benoit pantoproser, because they have some good pantoproser. When you click that you see those four medication alone, when I put them in, it gave me a Polypharmacy score 100% that's bad. That means these things have bad side effects combined together, and then this is what it was the webinar was talking about. It gives you a heat map where you can see the interaction between the medication and how bad they are. Red is bad, for sure. So now you look at the organ systems, you can see that gastrointestinal things he has already is a critical neurology problem, musculoskeletal problems, he has a metabolic problem, renal problems, and then cumulative nutrient depletion. So when you have all these medication, these four they're going to depleting the B 12. They're going to depleting magnesium. And it recommends also where to get the b 12 from, what type of beta you should get Methylcobalamin that you should you should supplement. It would depleting the CoQ 10 will depleting zinc, will depleting the folate and the cerebral CoQ 10, vitamin D, k2, omega threes, potassium, sodium, potassium, all of these things will be depleted. But if we have a conventional medicine practitioner who do not give any supplements to their patients, and all of a sudden they put those patients on these medications, and these things are depleting their body, they come they get neurological issues, neuropathies, etc. So your diabetes is causing it, but actually it's the combination of medication that is triggering all those problems for them. If you go down, it will give you what that means, gastrointestinal Cerner's So it tells you exactly what gastrointestinal problem this patient will have, metabolically is what they will have, and it details it completely for you. Also it gives you the cost if you buy generic versus the brand name. Not only that, it also allows you to use GoodRx coupon to buy the medication cheaper, and the patients can actually come here and download the GoodRx coupon so they can go to the pharmacy in Biden. It compares how much the GoodRx will cost you versus if your insurance covers it. So there's a value here, because at least you can learn to minimize cost by knowing what medication you on. Any questions here?

Speaker 8  1:26:06
Oh, it's amazing. Dr Patel. Dr Beno, yes. I was wondering, would you be able to print this list and can give it to the patient that this, there is a Polypharmacy, there are side effects, yes, this is, this is what you really need as a supplement. And then can be supplements can be designed, designed for them?

Benoit Tano  1:26:30
Yes, absolutely. You can print this, and you can also create a supplement that they need based on what they're lacking.

Speaker 8  1:26:37
And do you have a separate page for the supplements dispensed or something?

Benoit Tano  1:26:42
Yeah, we have a separate page for the supplement. So let me just come here.

Speaker 8  1:26:49
Well, sometime when you have time, you would like to see right from the time the patient walks in, and somebody can have the view, and from beginning to the exit, so so we can see that what it does and what does it doesn't do

Benoit Tano  1:27:08
that's correct. So for instance, your AMA, Ma's when the patient come with a long list of medications, the MA can actually put in the Polypharmacy checker. And ahead of time, you already know what medication they're on, what nutrient they're depleting, what side effects they will be having. So when they start talking, you already have the knowledge at hand, so then you can understand what they're presenting with.

Speaker 8  1:27:39
What do you do? Have an interface for the patient that before, so they can feel it out ahead of the time, like some other programs have, and so, so your office does not have to spend time in taking that information. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  1:27:57
So this one you can share with the patient, and the patient also themselves, that can go there and do their Polypharmacy check. That's the beauty about it. That way they will learn also. So all of you will be on the same page.

Speaker 8  1:28:10
And what about your templates? They are more of an integrative or conventional templates.

Benoit Tano  1:28:17
Oh, both. It offers integrative stuff too.

Speaker 8  1:28:23
No, you the guy the previous description had that there are templates and so that you don't have to make your own templates.

Benoit Tano  1:28:34
Oh yeah, there are templates. So for if you want to write, you want to create webinar, for instance, there's a template to do the webinars. If you want to write it,

Speaker 8  1:28:44
I'm talking about the office EMR templates.

Benoit Tano  1:28:48
Oh yeah, the EMR templates. Yeah, you we have that embedded here,

Speaker 8  1:28:54
and an EMR templates once all the complaints and like a soap note at the end, when you are doing your assessment and diagnosis at that point, can you? Can your AI just have the explanation for each diagnosis, like the doctor may enter the diagnosis, and the AI has a capacity to say that why this diagnosis is right? And then the sometime it can be the pharmaceutical prescription, or it can be nutraceutical prescription. So, so how that can be entered in the EMRs?

Benoit Tano  1:29:44
So this one, when you do the AI scribe, right when you talking with the patient, the AI Scribe is actually gathering all the information in the soap note format at the end, it provides the assessment based on whatever you discuss with the patient, and also it provides the plan for you. And it will tell you, based on everything that you guys have discussed, this patient is going to need this, or when you talk, it's okay. I think I will give you say CoQ 10. I will give you this when you say that, it is writing for you. In the end, you will make a summary of all the things that you providing to be patient.

Speaker 8  1:30:31
So if, if, let's say, the patient comes in dark, I have been sick. I have chemical sensitivity, but since my electrical fire, my chemical sensitivity has gotten worse. And I have Depletions, these neurological symptoms, cardiac symptoms, no breathing symptoms, but I'm extremely fatigued, and all this, all these complaints, and then the doctor keeps on asking, because that gives the explanation that what is doctor is thinking in the brain and AI may Be thinking at the brain at the same time, and then at the end the AI, you have used it so AI gives you the diagnosis of what chemicals are involved in an electric fire. What are the side effects of the electrical fire? What are what side effects? Means that what kind of chemicals one is exposed to, what are the clinical effects of each chemical, and what are the biochemical consequences of that chemical? Because our practice is very much detailed, and no two patients are the same. And so how does, how does your AI is effective that way?

Benoit Tano  1:31:57
Okay, this is the beautiful part. You see. I'm going to go back. I will show you, you see why it says AI search here, yes. So if I click on that, and then, What topic do you want to research? So, for instance, a patient comes with electric fire side effects or whatever. Give me one

Speaker 8  1:32:18
exposure to electric fire exposure fumes, electric fire fumes and fire fumes and what. And then the patient had to remain in the same condo in a different place for few hours, until she got all her things out and got out of the place. And then, then she progressively got sick. She did not get sick immediately. Sometimes, some patients get sick 100% on day one and gradually get better. This patient progressively got sick. So what is the difference?

Benoit Tano  1:33:01
So I put here electrified,

Benoit Tano  1:33:09
and then it gives me a lot of information about that. It says the overview and mechanism of action. It tells you electrify fume, what they do, primarily estradiol. It gives you a detailed information.

Speaker 8  1:33:23
Okay, it does not have all the informations. It gives you that. And many times every patient does not have same information. So how, how can you use this information transposing into the patient's EMR?

Benoit Tano  1:33:39
So, but when you in the EMR, when you do the plan, and it talks about electrify, et cetera, remember this, AI already has a knowledge about the electrify fumes,

Speaker 8  1:33:53
etc, yes, but it does not have it. Does not have it. This is maybe 1/3 of what, what my research has shown. Yeah. And then, as I mentioned, that she did not have problem with her respiratory symptoms. 99% have a problem with the respiratory symptoms, but she Dermatological problem, she didn't have Hematological problem, minimal. So, so, so that that's why this, this, this model will not work for her. So how can you there are parts that you can transpose and change it. But this is, this is not pure form, and that's why I just say that, whether it will be helpful or not. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  1:34:38
So I mean, if it's a patient dependent, I really think some of these. I mean, if we had this real scenario and we put it in here. Perhaps it will give us a general information, but the plan be. How do you call the ER BHR is going to give you the plan, and it will tell you exactly what you dictating what whatever you say, and that is important. We give you all that. We give you the diagnosis and whatever plan you have, so it's not taken over completely your medical practice, but you can query about the condition, and also you can generate the patient booklet, so based on what you have, and it will you can actually put your logo on it and then give it to be patient. Okay.

Speaker 8  1:35:35
Number two, it is what interface it works. Is it working on only on desktop or, or does it work on a laptop or or the iPad? How does that?

Benoit Tano  1:35:47
Yeah, so it works on the phone. So if you you put the cell phone iPhone, okay, so if you put a Tayapro med on your iPhone, it would be on your iPhone. You can use it on the iPhone. You can use on any of the devices. You can use on laptop, desktop, everything.

Speaker 8  1:36:07
Okay, and, and what happens if you have a different kind of EHR?

Benoit Tano  1:36:14
So that is one thing we're trying to see how we can integrative this one with a bit different EHRs.

Speaker 8  1:36:22
Okay, and what is the what's it like? Let's say that EHR. If you sign up for this EHR, what is the, what is the workflow? It say, Oh, you can do it in seven days. And you know, you really can do it. So, so like, when you start implementing, when you start entering the patient and etc. How long I mean, you have worked in your system? How long did it take for you to be, to be really functional, without impairing, without impairing the patient flow?

Benoit Tano  1:37:05
Yeah, for me, it's easy, because the number one thing that we all need right is the AI scribe. The patient comes. We have to register them. We have to put the forms in. And all of these are given to you where you can register the patient. You can put all the form behaviors, forms and everything. Once that is done, then your next step is to see the patient. If you see the patient and you click on your AI scribe, then the scribe takes all the notes for you. Even if I speak Spanish,

Speaker 8  1:37:39
they're speaking this 66 languages. Yeah, then you will

Benoit Tano  1:37:43
translate that Spanish into English. So the end, you have a note that is in English and very nicely done, and it doesn't you don't have to go back and think, figure out whatever you did and type it in and stuff like that. It's already written

Speaker 8  1:38:01
for Okay, so how much of your conversation with the patient is is deleted, and how much it is, because the in environmental practice, when we are evaluating very sick patients over many years, sometime our interview lasts more than hour, hour and 15 minutes, and what, when I have used the others They put everything on one page, and 90% of the facts, what we have discussed, which are very important for the patient, have not been there.

Benoit Tano  1:38:37
Oh, yeah, this one does not do that. It will give you, systematically be subjective when the patient is talking everything the patient talks about is summarizes that for USA patients said that they have been in a fire, they got electricity.

Speaker 8  1:38:54
They go by the one minute or five minute or 10 minutes?

Benoit Tano  1:38:57
No, there's no limit to that.

Speaker 8  1:38:59
No, no, no, what? There are programs that, you know there. There is a program that usually they you put them on and they will say, one minute you said that, and then, then the one to five minutes, five to 10 minutes, 10 to 15 minutes. So immediately say, oh, middle of the conversation, and you can go and check it, because usually,

Benoit Tano  1:39:25
no, we don't have that. We don't do that. Because I knowing that the doctor doesn't have to go by minutes and stuff, so we made sure that you don't go by minutes or etc. Everything the patient is saying is important. So then in the subjective you get it, if you want to do a complete review of system, then it gives you the complete review of system going from head to toe,

Speaker 8  1:39:50
okay, yeah. And, and, if patient wants the copy of the record, how are you able to give it to the patient? Why?

Benoit Tano  1:40:05
So? Because you already have the notes, right? Yeah, so then you can, you can print the notes and give it to them. Okay, other questions, or Dr Patel have questions

Speaker 7  1:40:23
I wanted to ask. Dr Tano, is it like myocarditis. Can we see like, okay, type myocarditis, but

Benoit Tano  1:40:37
let me enter myocarditis or myocarditis, myocarditis. Okay, so let's see. We give us some myocarditis and

Speaker 7  1:40:51
is this connected to UpToDate or other?

Benoit Tano  1:40:55
No, because I think we are better than UpToDate.

Speaker 7  1:40:58
Yeah. You get other database from Japan. Yeah, some other people what they think

Benoit Tano  1:41:10
that is, so UpToDate is old, so I think now we have, we have better system that is much interesting. So your myocarditis, first of all, it gives you a general overview. It gives you the pathophysiology of that, so you understand exactly what is going on, and it tells you what to treat. A conventional medicine does in terms of treatment and all of that, and says and everything else. And then it goes to functional medicine treatment. You see that functional medicine emphasizes you what they need, supplements, a diet, exercise, glutathione, I mean detox. So it gives you the detoxification processes everything, and you go down formulation. So it tells you what formulation you have. It gives you the Ayurvedic medicine formulation, what you need there, we give you Chinese medicine formulation. So if you want to consider all of those modalities you can whereas many other, many other program would not even talk about traditional medicine. Remember, if you go to India or China, billions of people are using this, and that's all been no and nobody is really even talking about this here. So I think it's good to embrace many of the other traditions, because some of these medication work really well, and they can help us synergistically, cure the patient or help them do better. The other thing that we have done here, which is different, is to put the Pharmacoeconomic analysis means, is this good for my money? How much am I getting for this medication? So it will give you the cost effectiveness analysis of it, and they will tell you which one is better. Is it conventional medicine better, or is it functional medicine better for the value that you're getting? That is new. That's something that I incorporated in it, because all the pharmaceutical companies, when they tried to probably by trying to defend their drug in front of the FDA, they have to have this study done on their drug. The cost effectiveness analysis is a mandatory so I'm thinking, if we're giving medication to patients, I would like to know the cost effectiveness analysis of the medication and see is, does it provide good value for the patient in terms of quality adjusted life years?

Speaker 7  1:43:56
Very nice. But my sometimes we get a lot of medication, like 20 medications in reference, so we just pick some of them.

Benoit Tano  1:44:08
Yeah, you pay if you put a pick couple of them, or three or four of them. You saw how we did this for the diabetic patient, we put four of them, and already it's over the chart in terms of the Polypharmacy score. Now here you can pick conditions. So also, so for instance, if I say autoimmune disease, I click on that, then let's take polycytical COVID. When you take that, then it tells you how they treat it generally, but put them on oral contraceptives. And if anyone is on oral contraceptives, they're going to have depletion of these nutrients. But I haven't seen a lot of people who are in birth control pills, then they give them supplements. So the obese are not doing that, and they will come to you by having all kinds of stuff side effects from the oral contraceptive and nobody is helping them. So it's important to just run that through here. And then he gives you all the information you need, very quickly, spironolactone, so then we'll be down. Metformin again. It deplete all of that. And then you have the idea. Then you go functional medicine. This was conventional medicine treatment, but if you want to do functional medicine, what do you give them? We know that people with polycystic COVID, they also have insulin resistance. They have insulin resistance. What supplements will be good for that? And you have this Myocarditis and D Caro inositol that would be good to reduce the insulin resistance. So many of us don't use that, but I think here, it tells you and also what company is selling this medication, and it tells you whether it's good value for whatever you give them or not, and it gives you milligrams that you need to get a good effect. So this was functional medicine, and then it gives you the lifestyle change that they need. So it tells you everything about the lifestyle thing that they should do. And then detox, what detox protocol that should be, phase one, phase two, and all of that. It gives you all of that active detox, pre detox, preparatory detox, so it gives you all the nutrients that you need to give them for the different detoxification phases. Wow. This is so amazing. And it tells you also the traditional medicine, traditional Ayurvedic medicine. It tells you the root cause. So, yeah, what is behind the policy CoV series? And then genetic, it tells you the genetic portion, what snips whatever things that may be contributing to it. And then it tells you also case study. So you can do some cases generate a case study to learn more about it, you can do because analysis, like I

Speaker 7  1:47:13
said, but you don't have peptides here. I do have peptides here. Oh, I didn't see in the treatment. Oh, yeah. Well, we

Benoit Tano  1:47:22
don't have peptides here, but you have a whole section of peptides in here,

Speaker 7  1:47:28
yeah, yeah, but they're not integrated in the treatment.

Benoit Tano  1:47:31
Yeah, it did. If you need a peptide, we tell you be peptide. You can screen the Protonix categories, I think, yes, under categories, yeah, that's correct. Dr Quinn, and you see underneath your peptides. So it gives you all the peptides, how they use, etc. So you click on that, it will give you all the information about it.

Speaker 7  1:47:54
And then you can put in search peptides for PCOS.

Benoit Tano  1:47:58
Yeah, yeah. You can put in peptide for PCOS also in the AI search. The AI search is really dynamic, very nice if you put in peptide for PCOS, then it will give you that information as well. And not only that, you also have this, this chat, right? The chat here is not Beno, that chat, you can ask any questions you want, and they will give you that information as well.

Speaker 7  1:48:27
Wow, that's so amazing. Yeah, and

Speaker 9  1:48:31
then Dr Tano, did you already mentioned the fact that you can print, like little brochures or information things for the patients for their specific issues?

Benoit Tano  1:48:41
Yes, I did. When Dr Panto was talking, I said that briefly, that okay, I missed that. Yeah, when you search in the AI search, you can print, actually, whatever you search, and you can even put your logo in it, and then you can give it to the patient.

Speaker 7  1:48:59
And what about advertising like? How do you advertise like, let's say you do functional medicine, yeah.

Benoit Tano  1:49:08
So you saw, we saw the webinar that I did, right? So if you have a clinic, you can create a webinar, for instance, and you can, if you have an email list, you can write an email from here. You don't have to go anywhere else and find an email writer and all of that. You can create your email from here and send it directly to your email list. And they can watch your webinar, or they can watch your proposition. They can go through your funnel. So these are few things that people have to learn to do if you want to do that, if you have someone who is doing marketing for you too, they can do the funnel. They can create a lot of app from here, and then you can send it to your list. Or you can do advertising. You can advertise on Facebook or Instagram or Google advertising, and that patient will come to you from there.

Speaker 7  1:50:09
Oh, you can advertise on Oh, okay, wow, yeah, and we can use the funeral to advertise on Facebook and Google, yes, yeah.

Benoit Tano  1:50:19
So if you want to advertise on Facebook, it's good to have a funnel, right? Because when you go there and put in your little phrase, you send them to a link, and that link will be your funnel link.

Speaker 7  1:50:36
Yeah, most, most important, like to let the people know that somebody's there offering other services. So it's important to make yourself known that you offer

Benoit Tano  1:50:55
other services, other services, yeah?

Unknown Speaker  1:50:59
So people know about you. Yeah,

Benoit Tano  1:51:01
absolutely. I know for sure, I guess, yeah, digestive health. So here in the drop down of category, you have everything, detox, digestive health, eye health, adaptogens, mitochondria, everybody talks about so you're going to get a lot of information about mitochondria, immune support, ubiquitcm, homeopathic too, and then you can go from

Unknown Speaker  1:51:27
there. How about the cancer. Can we put there like

Benoit Tano  1:51:30
cancer? Want to learn about what type of cancer,

Unknown Speaker  1:51:34
lung cancer. Lung cancer. What do you

Benoit Tano  1:51:37
want to know? Lung cancer treatment?

Speaker 7  1:51:39
I want to see what comes up? Yeah. So, lung cancer.

Benoit Tano  1:51:49
Lung cancer diagnosis.

Speaker 7  1:51:53
No, let's see small lung cancer stage four. Small lung cancer stage four.

Benoit Tano  1:51:59
Okay, treatment lung cancer stage four. You want to say yeah, or diagnosis and treatment first, yeah, then you can, you can query, can access as many questions as you want.

Benoit Tano  1:52:21
So here it gives you all the information about your lung cancer. It gives you a general information from here and then chemotherapy agents. It tells you that. It tells you indication for each of each one of them, the chemotherapy for each one of them. It describes that basis, platinum, the etopo side all of that radiation, then side effects. It gives you that information as well. It, I mean, I think it's detailed enough to for you to really learn plenty here, very quickly.

Speaker 7  1:53:03
Oh, this is the smoking Ayurvedic they use, Ashwagandha, three, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Benoit Tano  1:53:15
Point homeopathic medicine, which one would be good? Arnica for pain, maybe you know things like that,

Speaker 7  1:53:26
but they don't say anything about arrhythmia. Bendazole and

Benoit Tano  1:53:31
no so remember, these are new, new treatment modalities that people are introducing, right? So it takes a little while for AI to catch up. That's the thing. So I don't think even new medication that just came out early this year. If you put in here, it may not show because it's not already cataloged in the AI stuff.

Speaker 7  1:54:02
And vitamin C do it mentioned there vitamin C, like the vitamin or the the that one mistletoe.

Benoit Tano  1:54:16
Yeah, so Mr. Toe in Europe, they have been homeopathic form. Here, I have not seen it, but I went to Belgium once, and I saw the missile to homeopathic drops that they have made.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:34
But can the patient get cured with this protocol?

Benoit Tano  1:54:38
Not sure. I mean, I cannot. Hey,

Speaker 7  1:54:42
Berberine, inositol, and modify cytospectin. Yeah, those

Benoit Tano  1:54:53
it may. I mean, it gives you what we have here, but I don't know if it covers every base, but people are looking outside the box, right? Nobody wants to go just with chemo radiation the old fashioned way. Everybody is trying to figure out, how can we make the patient better? So by trying to give you more information, etc, but here it gives you also some, at least it doesn't give you just chemo radiation. It gives you all the other modalities that you can use as adjuvants to be chemo, because people will always go for chemo, radiation. Most of them are not going to say, Oh, I'm going to just do traditional medicine or functional medicine when they have their treatment. Then curcumin, things like that. You can add to omega threes, vitamin C, like you're saying, vitamin C IV, you can do that, 50,000 whatever. So a lot of vitamin C and fusion that people do to help with the cancer.

Speaker 7  1:56:02
It's, it's nice, but should be more specific. I think you should be Joe depends, protocol, this, and then, like, let's say vitamin C protocol.

Benoit Tano  1:56:13
Okay, so this is just the first version of this, and be more healthcare professionals see it, and they tell me, like, Dr Patel is making some cases. I'm putting my brain. What am I going to do? You're making some cases? I'm going to say, okay, how can we enhance it? So this is the first. The first. The first. How do you get deployment now, based on comments and everything else and what people want, we can always reprogram the whole thing and add more information.

Speaker 9  1:56:52
Yeah, potentially there'll be a TAYAPROMED 2.0 coming in.

Benoit Tano  1:56:58
Yeah, this is 1.0 yes, we can do a 2.0 but even Dr queen, remember when I showed that in our meeting? Yeah, I did not have the educational part done, so I went and added this whole educational part. Remember this, yeah, and the capacity of doing the webinars. Create the webinar, because the webinar created with the system. So education, you can create your own course. My lesson

Bill Clearfield  1:57:30
won't need us anymore. We just, we just put this one and off you go, right?

Speaker 9  1:57:37
It does everything. He said, It won't do dishes, though

Benoit Tano  1:57:40
it would not do dishes, but I wish it would. But so here lesson, you can create your own lesson. For instance, if I click on lessons, I've already created tons of lessons in functional medicine and other things. So you can see all these lessons, and if you click on it, then we give you all the information. Not only you have it, but we can narrate that too. You can, you can listen to it.

Speaker 6  1:58:07
Imagine a person who has spent years battling a persistent weeping rash on her eyelids and hands. She has seen four Dermatological GPT used countless tubes of high potency topical steroids and switched to hypoallergenic soap, yet the fire on her skin persists. This is the daily reality of allergic contact dermatitis ACD and the more nebulous, often depleting,

Benoit Tano  1:58:31
all right, so yeah, and you can pick whoever is narrating for you as well. I like this guy because he's a very clear doesn't you know things like that. You remember my Tobin thing? So it comes here. I put the turbine in here. So for biscontact dermatitis, it tells you that turbine is a big factor. Oxidative stress is a big factor, biological imbalance is a big factor, as well as infections and a little bit of moderate nutrient deficiencies. So you can create the course, and then it will narrate that for you, so you don't have, I'm actually one of the voice about estradiol. Okay, somebody's playing back any questions about this that. So lesson, you can create as many lessons as you want, any topic that you want, even if you is outside medicine and you want to learn about something, you can say, well, I want to learn this topic to be able to create a business or whatever. Then we give you all that information.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:43
Can it teach me how to can it teach me how to make an AI app to compete with this one. Yes, you can.

Benoit Tano  1:59:52
You can, actually, but, but what is interesting, though, is whatever thing that you tell the AI that's what is going to do. So if you don't have the know how, and you you don't have all the information, then you cannot come up with an app that would do just like that, right? So whatever you instruct the AI to do, that's what it would do for you. Like for instance, I put in pharmacoeconomics I have because I haven't seen anybody doing pharmacoeconomics and outcome research when they do all these things. So I thought, Okay, I have this knowledge. I studied it. Why don't I put pharmacoeconomics and Outcome Research in it? And again, if you did not have a training, then it may be difficult for you to know whether what this AI is putting out is normal or correct or not correct, or unless you hire somebody else to review

Bill Clearfield  2:00:48
it right. What about, like, sort of keeping up with the, you know, whatever is new, is that? How is this sort of refreshed? Or, you

Benoit Tano  2:00:58
know, Oh, yeah. So many of the things that I do, I have put in what I call the Bayesian be Bayesian updates. So base, you assist the statistical program that helps you updating the information, meaning you pick all the priors, whatever knowledge you had in the before. Every time there's a new information, it goes to UpToDate your old information based on the new one, and I have programmed that in here to do so, so whatever you're getting dynamically is updated. Okay, yeah, so I thought about this because I said, How can we have information that doesn't become stale, and if you have new information,

Bill Clearfield  2:01:51
are Aren't most of the AI models a couple of months behind, or is that just when they started out, or a year behind,

Benoit Tano  2:01:58
they're still a little bit behind. But here again, you can do just charge GPT. I mean, you can do GPT APIs, but what I did here, I use many models. I use Gemini three Pro, I use a Gemini 2.5 and I use chat GPT 5.2 so it's a combined model that gave me really concise information, because if you do just one, you're not getting what you need.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:33
Are you going to be able to keep up with them? Because they're already chat. GPT is already up to 5.4 they are 5.3 and 5.42 days in a row or something. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:02:43
So as we're going then we can update that too. We can use, when you creating your stuff, you can see, use this model, and then we give you the model that you need. Yeah, so I'm just forward thinking. I'm trying to make sure that we can keep up with this technology. But I don't know if anybody can.

Speaker 7  2:03:05
It should be somehow, I think it should be somehow integrative, like, let's say, autoimmune disease, and then you have this protocol, this protocol, what are the outcome? You know?

Benoit Tano  2:03:17
Yeah, so in here actually, because this is so vast, you can actually generate your own protocols for treatment of the conditions. So if you have Myocarditis that you ask, you can say, hey, give me a protocol for treatment of the best protocol to treat Myocarditis, and then they will give you that protocol.

Unknown Speaker  2:03:40
But I would like to make my own protocol.

Benoit Tano  2:03:42
Yeah, you will do that. That's I'm saying. You can create your own protocol here. Okay, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:48
now to put my protocol with what I know,

Benoit Tano  2:03:51
yeah, you put your protocol in there and you say, you can say, okay, add my own protocols. I want to use vitamin C. I want to use this. I want to use that. Create me a protocol, and then it will give you the protocol with the doses, by dosing and everything, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:11
So, so I've been working on on one of my own it's a lab app. So what I do is I get the PDF of the patient's lab lab studies that we do, yeah, and I I can upload it into one of the am AI models with our template, and it actually puts the numbers in perfectly, and then it gives me an interpretation of it. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:04:35
So here we just get any lab. So if you get a print out from, say, Genova, or access lab or anything, I say, upload the PDF of that lab into the system, and then it will interpret everything for you, right there,

Bill Clearfield  2:04:52
okay, and that would be where in here.

Benoit Tano  2:04:56
Oh, yeah. So interpretation labs, let me just see CME, learning, books, writing, etc. So, basically, the patient, so the patient, so there's a whole patient clinical here in the clinical patient hub, you can see treatment plan, SOAP Notes, lab interpreter, right? And then you can upload the lab from anywhere, so import. So you click on that, and then you can choose the file. So you can go to your computer, you choose the file, and then you can say, interpret. And then we give you the information you need, everything. So it takes me to my computer to try to get the so we, you know, we have our own

Bill Clearfield  2:05:49
sort of, I don't know if they're proprietary. You know, I do a lot of calculations. Can you put those in there

Benoit Tano  2:05:55
that I don't know that we Yeah, I think you can do that somewhere so that you can put the numbers in there too. Your calculations,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:06
okay, and it's, you can put patient information in there. It's HIPAA compliant. I think you

Benoit Tano  2:06:11
said that, right? Yeah, you put the patient name, maybe information is HIPAA compliant, and then you can do the interpretation of their labs. And also, that saves doctors or practitioners a lot of time, right? But if you interpret it and you print it out, you can send it to the patient and say, Hey, this is what your lab shows you. Need to book an appointment right away or see us, etc. The other one, the PhD app that I have that actually the patient, can do it themselves. They can put their own lab in there, and they will interpret for them, and they will alert them to contact the doctor if there's something wrong.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:54
Okay, very good. Is there a limit to how much, how many questions you can ask?

Benoit Tano  2:07:00
Or no, yeah. I mean, no, no limit. So far, maybe you think I should put a limit, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:07:06
Well, somebody's, somebody's programs that they're, you know, you can only have, you know, you get the free program. You can only do three examples or something, you know, and then,

Benoit Tano  2:07:18
so, yeah, yeah, definitely. I mean, with the free portion here, you cannot do a whole lot. I mean, you can do a few things, but it's not going to allow you to access some of the more advanced features.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:35
Okay, I want to say

Bill Clearfield  2:07:38
amazing, as always. Dr Tano, you're like the Savant

Speaker 7  2:07:44
Myocarditis, and at NYU, they treated with colchisin. And I didn't see colchi There only and say its ferrites, but it's very good for the heart. There was at Boca Raton where they talk about colchisin for heart. Very important. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:08:05
So this, I mean, it gives you the general information that everybody knows, right and everybody should use as a standard of care. But people can go into their own rabbit holes and use something else, and that's the off label use. And it works. It works because somebody did a study or and then they have it and they're using it. It's working, but it's not across the board that everybody will use coaching for that.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:37
It was some kind of preferential So, yeah,

Benoit Tano  2:08:44
yeah, I personally like the education a lot, because the education allows you to create the webinars like the one I just did. You can do learning progress. You can write your books and stuff like that. If you learning your lesson, it gives you scores. You can take notes, I mean, you can take exams, and then we give you the information you need. You can post certification here, for instance, you can actually generate your own. You can, yeah, I said in a row, you can generate your own. So this is functional medicine. You can generate your own lectures or things that you want to learn, so independently, if you think you're lacking something that you need to know, or there's a topic that they're talking about, you have no idea. You can come here, create your own lesson, and you will learn the whole thing.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:42
Got any? Got any students for that? The course of yours?

Benoit Tano  2:09:47
Not yet, but I think we will we get some students

Speaker 10  2:09:55
to come here. Can I make a little comment? Yes. Dr Tano, when he was a management and economics business professor, used to teach computer programming. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:10:08
So, thank you. So get out of the bag. Let me. Let me just tell you what happened. So I started at SUNY Albany in Albany, New York. And when I was doing my master's in economics, I was doing econometrics, which is a high level statistics to do some sort of programming for country level, Macroeconomic Analysis of a country to see how they can develop. And the professor who was following me made me do some simulation exercises and the simulation there was a computer program called mod sim, modeling simulation, and that mod sim cost about $1,000 a day. Remember the old mainframe computers? So when I go there and try to run the program, it costs $1,000 a day to the

Unknown Speaker  2:11:09
department, like a 360 or 370 Yes.

Benoit Tano  2:11:13
So as a punishment, there was a position for someone to learn in the College of Art and Sciences, for someone to learn computers and help professors and students do their dissertations or whatever they want to do in computer. So I get in a call. They say, Well, you, you've been spending all our money. We thank you. You should go do this. I said, Okay, so I went and became the TA for computer, teaching people how to do computers. Now, when I'm I was about to finish my dissertation, my chairman one day calls me. Say, somebody said, the chairman wants to see you. I said, chairman wants to see me. What did I do? Because usually it's when something is bad, the chairman wants to see you, right? So I said, Okay, I drove there, and he said, Oh, I have a friend in at SUNY Cortland. Those of you who know New York have a friend at SUNY Cortland who wants someone to come and teach computer application in management. And everybody says, You are the one. So are you willing to do that? Oh, I said, Sure. I just want a job. So they hired me my first job then was due to the fact that I knew a little bit of computers, and that's how I got the first job. So that's my little story. So since then, I have always been computers. Every advancement they have. I tried to keep up a little bit with it. So I wouldn't say I'm an expert, but I can, I can manage

Benoit Tano  2:12:58
other questions. I mean, you guys can play with this thing. What about the book writing? Yeah. The book writing? Yeah. So if you go to education, you had the when you generate, when you go to AI, and you generate any information, like she said, Myocarditis, right? So let's do Myocarditis, and then we generate that shocks. So this one here, my this one is not working. So, I mean, I think it would take a little longer to do this. So that's why I go there. But when I do that, so the book writing, you can always do it here too. So you go there, you click, just get out book writing. And then here it will tell you to put, select the genre. So the genre you can use, you can do any sort of books. You can do fiction, non fiction, self help, business, entrepreneurship, business books, memoir, anything you want to write. And if you want to do medical clinical, you click on that, and then you put the title, I would say, Myocarditis. Myocarditis, and then you put a description, a little description, I'll put Myocarditis, and then it says you can put as many it's unlimited here, so you can put as much information as you want. You can even generate the table of content from chat GPT, and say, Okay, give me a table of content for Myocarditis. And then you will place that whole thing in here, and then it would generate the book for you. So please generate a comprehensive Myocarditis book, and you can give more information, like, I have to instruct him not to repeat itself. You have to instruct him not to plagiarize anybody. You have to instruct him to do. I mean many things that you can tell the GPT not to do, or the AI not to do, and it will not do those things. You have to get real references, not made up references, all of these things you can put in there, well, research, etc. And then you can put the offer name, so I say, I put Dr Bill, and then subtitle is already here. And then number of chapters you can can go down. Let's do like, two chapters or something. And then uh, crypto chapters, yeah. And then once you have that, it tells you how many words we put in there. So these chapters, five chapter we have. The first one, we give you 4200 words. Second 140, 500 words, etc. And then you click confirm, and then, now you generate, then we generate the book for you

Speaker 10  2:16:34
learn to write in the author's real style that you can tell it's Dr Bill writing the book.

Benoit Tano  2:16:41
Yeah. So if Dr Bill write a lot of books and he has shot the computer, then you will definitely show Dr beer style, and I have seen that even with my own writings, when I because I do so much, after a while, he knows what I want to do.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:00
Well, that was a question. Remember, I sent you that ebook that I, you know, 125 pages on psychiatry and hormones, and it turned it into a 600 page monstrosity. But it was using protocols that I would, you know, not nothing that I wrote that

Benoit Tano  2:17:19
was nothing that you put it in, yeah. So it's finished already. When he put all these balloons and stuff, that means he finished the Myocarditis book. We can save it so here, and then we

Bill Clearfield  2:17:32
can open it. We could have our own Barns and Noble in no time, huh?

Benoit Tano  2:17:36
Absolutely all shots. Don't know what happened here, but this, they did not show me so. But generally, it gives you the PDF, and you can go through it, and you can have all the information that you want and when it's generating. Also you can actually preview it, so you preview the book, and it would say, Dr Bill here, Myocarditis. It gives you the copyright, it gives you the content. It gives you a list of abbreviations, forward, preface, acknowledgement, overview and Pathophysiology. So here it gives you a little bit give you a medical disclaimer at the end, because this is like a preview of bill, if

Bill Clearfield  2:18:25
you run it through one of those, you know, AI checkers, is it going to show that it was all AI written or that?

Benoit Tano  2:18:33
I'm not sure, and these days, nobody cares anyway, because remember back in the odgwore making fume So, yeah, blah, blah, blah, Amazon, for instance, if you're publishing a book, The only thing it asks you to do is to say whether you use part of the AI to do the book or not. It doesn't say that it's illegal or anything like I know it's not, because many people, even the journalists, everybody's using AI to write. So nobody's gonna frown on AI outputs or anything like that. But if it's not well done, because many times people don't know what they're doing, so if it's not well done, then they would probably frown on it, say, Oh, this is AI generated, especially if you have like, long dashes in it, which AI likes to do. You want to make sure when you go and edit the book, you take out all these long dashes.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:30
So So in other words, you still have to read through this,

Benoit Tano  2:19:32
even though, yeah, you need Yeah, you need to. I mean, there's

Bill Clearfield  2:19:37
no free lunch. Yeah, you

Benoit Tano  2:19:39
need to. You need to go through it at least make sure that there's no it didn't put any nonsense in there.

Speaker 10  2:19:46
Dr Kennon, let's say you wrote four or five books before you started using AI, and you found a way to put those books into the AI wouldn't end up sounding like you, and could have learned to do a good job from what you've done in the past. Correct?

Benoit Tano  2:20:01
Yes, it would do that, actually. So that's why people think you will replace that, because they every time you teach him, he learns from you. And then it's it's become even more powerful than you are in the end.

Speaker 10  2:20:18
So you could say that you input the books from someone that lived in the 1800s and then you've said, I found a new book that's been unpublished before. You can pull that off,

Benoit Tano  2:20:31
possibly, yeah? Because so remember many of the old books that in the public domain, right? And you can republish those books under your name, and it's illegal, yeah? So, yeah, it's legal. So if anybody wrote a book in 1800 and you see that book in the public domain, you can actually take that, you can republish that under your name,

Bill Clearfield  2:20:57
like war and peace by Shell Stein, yeah, of course. Right. That was in 1800s right.

Benoit Tano  2:21:05
Yes. Other questions. Anybody else

Bill Clearfield  2:21:10
has opinions? Got anything online? I didn't hear Dr naryo, is he still here?

Speaker 1  2:21:16
Oh, no, you got it all covered. This is pretty extensive.

Bill Clearfield  2:21:20
All right, it's awesome. But your next, next tour? Dr Tano, is you got to build, sort of like a rope, a humanoid, like robot and program it with all this stuff so we don't have to get out of bed in the

Speaker 10  2:21:33
morning for doctor and Arios combined tips.

Bill Clearfield  2:21:37
I could tell all my patients, they sit here and talk, talk to the talk to the robot, right.

Benoit Tano  2:21:46
Sent me something this week and say, AI is going to replace us all. AI is going to replace the doctors. So I don't know how it's

Speaker 7  2:21:56
not possible. No, they're not so smart. They're not smart.

Benoit Tano  2:22:01
No, yeah, but in terms of diagnosis and all of that, they could really do a very good job if you know what you're doing. Unfortunately, many times when people program the AI, it is non professionals who are doing it. So like, if you take people who are doing computers, they're not necessarily knowledgeable about medicine, and they're the ones who are programming the computer to do medical stuff so they will not know any better, and that's why it does not perform. But if they work together with a doctor or healthcare professional, then they could actually come up with a good model.

Speaker 7  2:22:46
Yeah, still, I think, I think I looked, it's like a Google, but Google, it's not very correct. You have to know. I mean, I know when they say correct and when it's not, and and even this protocols, it's just a list of 50 medications and difficile therapy. So, yeah, let's say, I want to say I read a book about curcumin. And when you read a book and the studies and everything, you can come on. You can come up with your own plan, and you can look at labs and everything, and you can see if you can give patient seven grams of curcumin, not 5500, so there are certain things that you can do it because you know, and you have experience, and you you know, you read about it, that it's safe up to eight, nine grams. You know, you know the patient. It's not at risk for bleeding and all this, but AI, it's still, it's just a computation. It's so I think I mean experience and knowledge, still human, human.

Benoit Tano  2:24:06
It's better. Yes, I agree with that. I think saying that AI is going to replace doctors and all of that, that is going to be long, long, long time ago later, not now, because there's a human input that is important, and also human touch is important. But look, many patients don't want to go to a clinic. They can go and do telemedicine, right? And so they don't have to come see you physically, but you can talk to them. You don't have to examine them necessarily, completely. They're happy with that. Once you give them something that works, I think that's what people are talking about so someone is going to come back with his mothers and say, Hey, we can see you. We give you back even. Dr, what is Mark Harmon? Hi, Mark Hyman. He has this program where he gives labs to people, charge them like 400 or $500 and then they want AI to interpret the lab for the patient. Patients are not quite satisfied with that, because they don't understand what the AI is saying. In general, someone still has to go in and explain all the steps to them and what is happening and how, ICER, yeah, he calls it functional Med, yeah? Functional Med, yes, yes.

Speaker 7  2:25:36
He's at Cleveland Clinic now. He has a department of functional medicine.

Benoit Tano  2:25:40
He's diabetic, right, yeah. So I think still, humans are needed, even if AI is doing a great job. But down the road, I don't know, because all these things are up.

Speaker 10  2:25:56
Yeah, Dr Tano, let's say you're talking about dosage, and there's a little mistake. Would the program know about LD 50 or need some combinations.

Benoit Tano  2:26:10
Okay, so let's, let's ask him. I'm gonna say here, do you know anything about LD 50? Do you know any thing about the LD 50 of a medication, right? QUESTION Mark, let's see what he says. If he dies, it

Unknown Speaker  2:26:47
do you need to put in a specific medication.

Benoit Tano  2:26:51
No, he would give me a general l difficile. Let me do that here. Let's see what he says. So this is what he says, Shall Yes? It yes the LD 50 lethal dose. 50 is a pharmacologic term that refers to the dose of a substance that is lethal to 50% of the population, typically in animal studies, it is used as an indicator of the acute toxicity of a substance. Here is a more detailed breakdown of the concept, understanding LD 50 definition. LD 50 stands for lipidocese, so that we got that importance of that it helps researchers understand the safety profile of drugs, including their potential for causing harm. And then it continues. This is just a small little thing. It continues and tells you everything about your lD 50 that you want to know.

Speaker 10  2:27:59
What about combinations with herbs? What do you mean? Well, let's say you take pharmaceuticals and an herb that should go together.

Benoit Tano  2:28:09
Okay, so pharmacy, CoQ. So how to combine herbal medicine, medicine, herbal medicine? How would I formulate and conventional, conventional medications, safely, safely. Yeah, okay, so let's see what he says. I think may it is stalling on me here. Oh yeah, it will give you that. So here is here is what he said. Wow, combining herbal medicine with conventional medication can offer potential benefits, but it requires careful consideration to ensure safety and efficacy. The following guidelines outline a comprehensive approach to safely integrate these modalities, consult healthcare professional, communicate with providers, always inform your healthcare provider about any herbal supplement you are considering or currently taking, as well as prescribed medications. Collaborative approach CKD. So it tells you, from the patient point of view, what you should be doing understand drug herb interaction. Okay, mechanism of interaction. Herbs can interact with conventional mechanic medication through various mechanism, enzyme induction, inhibition. And then it tells you that the cytochrome p4 50 altered absorption. Pharmacoeconomic, I mean, that's a lot of gene CoV. Fred gives you example, even ginkgo biloba, estradiol, ginseng, COVID. Conduct thorough research, quality of herbal products, research evidence start with low doses. I mean, it gives you everything you need to know.

Speaker 10  2:30:20
I went across years ago with Chinese patent medicine that sometimes they put in pharmaceuticals or sometimes there were heavy metals that didn't belong there. And that's kind of obscure, right?

Benoit Tano  2:30:34
Yep, here, when you put a condition in, not only gives you the conventional treatment, the functional medicine treatment, it gives you also Ayurvedic it gives you a traditional Chinese. It gives you everything that you need to know about those modalities. How about

Unknown Speaker  2:30:56
traditional African?

Benoit Tano  2:30:58
Yeah, well, so if you put in here, provide traditional African. Medicine, treatment for what? PTSD, right, good. Let's see what he says. Okay, the COVID Tam, not TCM term, traditional African medicine. PTSD talks about understanding traditional African medicine, holistic approach, cultural beliefs, herbal remedies, spiritual practices, community support, herbal remedies for PTSD, don't know, it talks about Canada. Anybody knows Canada? It talks about St John's wort. It talks about, yeah, those are be it didn't put you up again here. SIBO staff, story telling, music, lifestyle, consideration, examples,

Speaker 10  2:32:15
it can research if you highlight something

Benoit Tano  2:32:18
and expand those for you. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:32:22
So it's good educational tool, absolutely.

Benoit Tano  2:32:25
So in terms of education and concise. It gives you whatever you ask him. It will give you a clear understanding of it. That's why you can write the book with it. So it gives you you search. It gives you research conditions, supplements anything.

Speaker 10  2:32:45
It's exponentially better than punching cards and cobalt and compiling them and staying up to three o'clock in the morning,

Benoit Tano  2:32:55
yeah, and then making mistakes, and you have to do it again.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:01
Can you make slideshows for our lectures?

Benoit Tano  2:33:04
Yeah, you can. That's I remember I did. You don't even have to do anything. You can do, the webinar thing, and then it will do the slide shows. I mean, it will present everything, like the one that I showed you in the beginning,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:18
out of something's copyrighted.

Benoit Tano  2:33:21
Well, then that's not yours. It will do it because you showed him to do you could tell not to use copyrighted material exactly. You tell him ahead of time. For me, when I write books, I say, Do not plagiarize. Do not plagiarize any existing work so it knows that it's not going to go and copy somebody else's book.

Speaker 10  2:33:45
You're not intimidated by AI. Me, yeah, not at all. No, no, no, of course not. You want to let you want to play with it.

Benoit Tano  2:33:55
Yeah, I want to. I want to be able to dominate it. Because the thing is, either you embrace it now, because some people say, Oh, AI is bad, I'm not going to do anything with it. But everybody is using it. And the long run, if you don't catch up, then you'll be behind. And, you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:34:14
beating it is fun,

Benoit Tano  2:34:17
yeah, so the sooner people get in, the better for all of us. I think

Speaker 7  2:34:24
my I have a question, how come like, if somebody writes a book from for Myocarditis and the AI writes it in two minutes the book. Then, what is your what it can be our input in that Okay, so the book of Myocarditis the same.

Benoit Tano  2:34:42
Okay, so it depends, right? I call it prompting engineer that I consider myself a good prompt engineer, meaning I can really write when he says, Put in your input. Whatever you put your input, it says, and limit it, right? That's where you put everything you want the AI to do for you,

Speaker 7  2:35:05
for the book, oh, search and chapter,

Benoit Tano  2:35:09
everything that you say, so everything, if you don't say it right, or you don't ask him the right question, or things that you want clearly, then we give you a generality. It will not give you detail that people will consider valuable. So if you know how to do your prompt, and you engineer that very well. Then we give you books that are very nice, readable, intellectual, everything that you want in there.

Speaker 7  2:35:39
Yeah, and case studies, you can put case studies and,

Benoit Tano  2:35:44
oh, yeah, case study. You can do case studies here. Yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:35:54
And even you write the book, you can put case studies in the books, also

Unknown Speaker  2:36:00
introducing new paradigms.

Benoit Tano  2:36:02
You can do case studies and you can do also the MCQ multiple choice questions that we've answered, detailed answers and why some of the things are wrong.

Speaker 9  2:36:15
Dr Tano, tabulate outcome data. Dr Tano, comes

Benoit Tano  2:36:22
Yeah, patient outcomes. You can always put information, say, I want outcome information that will bend it will calculate the ICER, the ice, all of the things that I do do here.

Speaker 10  2:36:35
Dr Tano, let's say you want to compare and evaluate new paradigms.

Benoit Tano  2:36:42
Give me one second. I'll be right back. Give me one second. Please.

Unknown Speaker  2:36:50
Share Michelle, you're making them work too hard.

Speaker 10  2:36:56
Well, I was in computers for a couple of decades, so

Speaker 9  2:37:00
it's fun. Yeah, when you mentioned cobalt that did it,

Speaker 10  2:37:06
yeah, well, that's the reality. That's why you don't become a programmer. You rather be an executive and have the programmers work for you. And even worse is CICS and a mainframe. And a lot of computer executives end up working 80 hours a week.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:42
And he's gonna give us this. He'll be right back.

Benoit Tano  2:37:48
Okay, all right, so shell you were saying, paradigm shift, or whatever you were saying. What is the question?

Speaker 10  2:37:56
How do you compare new paradigms and evaluate them?

Benoit Tano  2:38:01
Give me an example. I'm going to try to do that.

Speaker 10  2:38:04
Okay, a new paradigm is using AI compared to, you know, the old writing notes, what are the advantages, or using stem cells or using peptides?

Benoit Tano  2:38:21
So compare old paradigm and new paradigm, right, right? Okay, let's see what it says. I didn't I just put generality. So let's see what it okay. So it says when discussing evolution of healthcare, particularly the transition from the old paradigm to the new paradigm, it is essential to recognize the fundamental differences in philosophy approach and understanding of health and disease. Below is a comparative analysis of the two paradigms, all right, definition of paradigm. So it gives you what that means, Reductase approach, mechanistic understanding, pharmacologic approach, integrative so be new paradigm is a new paradigm is holistic approach, integrative and functional medicine, patient centered care and philosophical differences. We have disease centered, paternalistic model, health centered in the new paradigm, collaborative model. We have approaches to treatment. Old paradigm is symptom management, standardized protocols and the new paradigm is the root cause analysis. You know, that's what we're doing when I personalize medicine. Role of healthcare providers. Old paradigm is expert authority. Back in the old days, you cannot even talk to the doctor. Now the patient come. They'll plug in your face. They give you charge GPT right?

Speaker 10  2:40:11
What about 10 Minute medicine versus concierge medicine?

Benoit Tano  2:40:15
Oh, which one medicine versus concierge?

Speaker 10  2:40:18
Yeah, concierge medicine versus 10 Minute medicine. 10 minutes? You mean that traditional? That's all you get? Yeah. All you get is 10 minutes with the doctor, if you're lucky.

Benoit Tano  2:40:28
So conventional medicine versus concierge medicine, okay, if you do that, then you can see it will tell you that too, conventional medicine and concierge medicine are two distinct approaches. Definition structure, definition structure, accessibility, appointment wait times, urgent care availability, all of that.

Speaker 10  2:41:02
Yeah. One takes more gelt, yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:41:05
So it will go detail and tell you everything that you need to know. I think so. I sent out. I give you guys the smaller version of taylormed. You can play with it. You can do it doesn't contain everything that we discussed today, but hopefully by next week, or a couple of weeks from now, we'll have all the information that we have in the new one, in the one that I sent, and then people can play with it, and then we can figure out

Bill Clearfield  2:41:38
I'm gonna have to get step off now. So yeah, I think we, guys want to keep going. I'll just leave this on, but it's time for me to I got, I got some other things I got

Benoit Tano  2:41:47
to do. So I think we're done. Okay, okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:51
Dr Tano, thank you so much. Any you have any last words here?

Benoit Tano  2:41:56
Yeah, I really think all of us should embrace AI in medicine and be sooner we do and come up with models that work be better things will be, because if we healthcare professionals are not part of it, then it would be the technicians, like the programmers, who will come up with these models, and then it doesn't fit our needs. So we have to invest ourselves in it, so then we can get better models. That would be all that, I would say.

Bill Clearfield  2:42:29
Dr Nario, any anything?

Unknown Speaker  2:42:32
No, this is the future. I agree with. Dr Tano,

Bill Clearfield  2:42:36
I've been using it everybody well again. Dr Tano, okay. Anybody have any, any, oh.

Speaker 1  2:42:43
Dr Tano, does our members get a discount when we subscribe to this, yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:42:50
So, I mean, yeah. So if, yeah, if, of course, so we, yeah, in the house, we can discuss that and decide what people can do.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:02
Dr Bill, I got him in a trap, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:43:04
the answer is no. Dr Tano, the answer is always

Benoit Tano  2:43:08
no, okay, I said no. Okay, for

Bill Clearfield  2:43:12
this group, there's a 25% premium.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:15
Okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  2:43:18
Okay, anybody have any so actually, I have a little bit of big news this week. This weekend, I'm going down to Miami to be at the American Academy of stem cell physicians. I'll be speaking there. I was invited to speak at the Institute for Functional medicines international conference at the end of May. So that's kind of exciting. So, so I'll be be doing that may 30. What is that? It's May 27, and 30th, I think in San Diego. Okay, and then, and also, I'll be next month. I'll be next day, April, 15 to 19th. Will be at ammg in Miami, also. So anybody else have any I know? Dr, dr, Nario, you're proliferate proliferated on the rubber chicken circuit, as they used to call it.

Speaker 1  2:44:12
Yeah, no, I'll be in Spring, Spring Fest in a for M so everybody was going to go there. Let's huddle up, yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:44:20
So this weekend, Dr PEMF Smith has invited me to come and speak to her group in Huntsville, Alabama, the Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and then come home. I think it's going to be interesting.

Bill Clearfield  2:44:35
Yeah, yeah, she's going to be an ammg also. So yeah, toxicology, and 15th, the 19th. And I can get you a discount if you want to go there. I think I got a coupon for 20% off anybody. I'll put it in the next week's email, right? So, okay, okay, anybody else? Dr Quinn, you got anything from the Saturday group?

Speaker 9  2:44:56
Yeah, we got some stuff. I don't want to go into too much for for time's sake, we're not going to be meeting this Saturday. Dr Tano, is going to be gone. I'm going to be gone. So many people are going to be gone, but the apothecary is very close to up and running. And there's some other stuff that we're doing with education, obviously, with Dr Tano stuff, but I'll update you as we go.

Bill Clearfield  2:45:14
Okay, all right, anybody else

Speaker 7  2:45:18
just I want to ask about the conference. I want to look at it again. Is it still available the

Bill Clearfield  2:45:24
conference, which was when you're talking about

Unknown Speaker  2:45:28
Congress of medical excellence

Bill Clearfield  2:45:31
that's still online. You can, you can get it. You go to congress of medical excellence.com and there's the registration that will take you there. It's $199 the 20 ama credits are good till the end of November. Okay, thank you. And one of these days, I'll get start getting myself in gear, and we'll, we'll start planning the next one.

Benoit Tano  2:45:55
Oh, I have another app please. One of these day we have to do that. It's CoV 30 iOS, because remember, fertility decline is the greatest threat to humanity today, but we not talking much about it at all. Presentation, nobody talks about that, but it's becoming so dangerous that I think action needs to be taken. And in order to do that, we have to draw attention to it. And I create the app to really go deep and show everything that anybody wants to know about fertility decline and the causes and how to protect ourselves against that. So down the road, if we have some time and that can show that that will be good. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:46:46
Alrighty, alright. Thank you, sir, thank you. Thank you everybody, and we'll, we'll see you again next week, same time, same station. We have Dr Dan sibosky Coming, talking about essential energy. So I don't know what it's I don't know what's essential about it, but we'll find out. So call your friends, call your enemies, call us all. Okay. Okay, the the link for somebody, the link for the for the app, is right here. Tayapromed.com.com, yeah. Dr Tano, you still there? Are you going to make it into, like, a phone app too, at some point,

Benoit Tano  2:47:28
yeah, some Yeah, I'm thinking about it. So going from the web app to phone app sometimes presents a lot of challenges, so I'm going to try to see how I can do that, and then have somebody, I already have some apps on the iOS, so I would do that and put on iOS and Android and all of that.

Bill Clearfield  2:47:49
Okay, already. Okay, okay, all right. Thank you so much. How can we find the ones on iOS and Android? Just type your name

Benoit Tano  2:47:58
in, no, no. So I have one. It's called PhD. But the PhD app, I put in a web app, so it's better to do the web, the web version you can do phd.org, So, P E, H d.org, okay, P E, H d.org, and that is the this one is really detail. It gives you the interaction between P E, H D, P E, P E, H D, like PhD, but P E, H d.org, P, P, P, as important, yeah, be enabled. P, P E, H D, yeah, P E, H d.org, so that one has a lot of information in terms of you scan your heart, it gives you your heart rate variability, and based on that, it gives you a questionnaire. So people fill up a question that goes to the doctor, the doctor approves it, and then the patient sets up an appointment with the doctor. The doctor sees it, or by tele medicine, and then or they can come in the office, and then everything goes from there. We have the air scrub. You have everything. Then this is actually very complete the app in terms of what I call EHR, electronic medical record and everything else in here. This is the one who wants to integrative skin. We want to integrative that one to the TAYAPROMED. So this become a whole big hoopla, I would say, you said, How do you do the heart scan? Yeah, use your, you use your your phone, and then you click on Scan, like Start Scan, and then you put on your heart so it would scan it, and we give you your heart rate variability. You have to be still lying down. And then, once you scan it, then you can proceed through questionnaire. It gives you the next step. So, yep, okay, great, yeah, all right, great, okay, thank you. Thank you allow me to present, to present this.

Bill Clearfield  2:50:19
Thank you absolutely, yes, we will have you back,

Unknown Speaker  2:50:22
right? I hope so.

Bill Clearfield  2:50:26
No, you will, no, we will have you back. Okay? Do you need a date now?

Benoit Tano  2:50:32
Yeah, give me a date because I think the other one would be equally important for people to know about.

Bill Clearfield  2:50:49
About June 9.

Benoit Tano  2:50:51
June 9 is okay. That works. I mean, for me in the future, start working on it now, yes, June 9 will work okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:51:02
Thank you, sir. Thank you so much, absolutely. Really appreciate it. Okay. Thank you all right, everybody, good night. Thanks for hanging out. Good night. Nice.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai