Bill Clearfield  00:20
Hey, Joe, mute, can you hear me? I hear you, fine. How's it going?

Speaker 1  00:26
It's going good. Going good. I should be back within three weeks. All right, can't wait.

Unknown Speaker  00:35
All right. What you doing with yourself? There?

Speaker 1  00:38
Um, not much. I just got put on the one hour a week instead of the I just got put on the Yeah, one hour a week plus the five hour meetings, or five one hour meetings before it was nine hours a week plus five hour meetings, and I'm, I'm tired of it. I'll be honest. I'm ready to come home.

Bill Clearfield  01:10
All right, yeah, I got a, it's a, it's, it's a, I got something. It was in Pete's name, I think it was a social security from, like, the statement, you know that he how much he got paid. So, okay, he got a,

Unknown Speaker  01:26
remember, I had to file a tax return for Ted. Oh, really, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  01:33
Okay, interesting. So we can file an extension, and then we will have time to figure it out till October. Brew through,

Speaker 1  01:45
yeah, and I've got a couple things to deal with up there and finish out and finish up, and I've got his ashes, and I still got to pick out and earn haven't done that yet. Wait a

Unknown Speaker  02:02
little bit more.

Bill Clearfield  02:05
Matthew's making, uh, Jade, you know he's, he's manufacturing Jade now. And he sent me some pictures of some urns.

Speaker 1  02:14
No way. Okay, well, it must be meant to be that sounds good. Is he still in Mongolia?

Bill Clearfield  02:21
No, they went back to Guangzhou or southern China again. Oh, wow.

Unknown Speaker  02:28
Okay, 80

Bill Clearfield  02:29
degrees there today. Is it? Well, you're in Vegas. It's not so bad there, right?

Speaker 1  02:35
Yeah, no, let's see we're, we're 60 degrees, yeah, it's not bad.

Unknown Speaker  02:42
Actually, wasn't bad here, either. For here,

Unknown Speaker  02:46
yeah, it says you're 43 Yeah, it's not bad.

Unknown Speaker  02:52
32 tomorrow,

Unknown Speaker  02:55
yeah, so

Unknown Speaker  02:58
that's good, all right? So

Bill Clearfield  03:03
I hope our speaker shows up.

Speaker 1  03:06
Oh, he should. He's, he's in your neck of the woods. He sure has been on this for a while. He's, actually, he's, he's been on the talk before, hasn't he? If I remember correctly, was it though he was at the conference. Oh, that's right, that's right, yeah, okay, that's right. He was, he was, I think he was saying that we need, or he needs, roughly $1 million a day for to go further in his uh, ventures.

Bill Clearfield  03:41
Oh, I don't know.

Unknown Speaker  03:43
I think so that was huge.

Bill Clearfield  03:47
A million dollars a day. Yeah, that'd be nice.

Unknown Speaker  03:52
Yep, that's how much he's spending.

Speaker 1  03:54
No, that's how much he needs to make to do the scientific research and all the controlled studies.

Bill Clearfield  04:01
And million dollars a day. That's, well, three $60 million in a year. Yeah, yeah, she could do a few studies with that amount of money.

Speaker 1  04:13
That's right, that's right. Well, look who he's barking up. He's, you know, in essence, he would be fighting big pharma and making people healthier, we wouldn't

Bill Clearfield  04:25
want, we don't want to do that. We

Speaker 1  04:27
don't that is not going to happen. Shoot. That's like adding the benefit to, mean, to alcohol. I hear they do it. I didn't get a chance to look it up, but they do it in other countries, but here, Budweiser and all of them wouldn't allow it to happen. They're adding what's alcohol been fit to mean vitamin b1 that's the synthetic b1 and b1 what you lose the most of, right? When you, you know, drink. So they've figured out you can put the benftamine, the synthetic form, in the alcohol to keep your people from getting sicker. You know, sick faster.

Unknown Speaker  05:07
Oh, we don't want to do that. I know. Nope.

Speaker 1  05:13
So, yeah, yeah, you don't want to mess with these. Somebody told me that the VA cost for sending me to an inpatient for 30 was 90,000 a month. I don't I think it was 90,000 for all three months. I think someone just got the cost wrong, because when I was there in the nursing home and I did 21 No, yeah, it was 21 days. That cost was 12 and a half 1000. Is what the VA showed for tax purposes.

Bill Clearfield  05:49
I think when Teddy was at the lakeside Manor, it was, well, that was only six that was 1600 a month,

Speaker 1  05:57
yeah, yeah, something like that. That was pretty cheap.

Bill Clearfield  06:00
It was such a rundown and disgusting place. Yeah, I don't think it's been there 70 years, and I don't think they painted it since

Unknown Speaker  06:11
the day they right. Yeah, that's true. That was a hard time shoot.

Bill Clearfield  06:22
All right. Dr narios here too. I'm going to make you. You're already a co host. And okay, Noma, what's that? How was Noma? Oh, it was great. You know, how was Noma? Noma, I had 11 people there when I was speaking in the room. Hey, it's number,

Speaker 2  06:47
right? You didn't get the tomatoes the rotten eggs thrown at you? Yeah, yeah, yeah, right, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  06:55
Of course, of course, of course. I'm gonna, I'm gonna send the link to our speaker again, so you guys take over for a moment. Okay, okay, should I

Unknown Speaker  07:07
book do? Oh, there you go.

Unknown Speaker  07:13
Should I start with our

Bill Clearfield  07:16
Hold on a few, just a few minutes. Okay, sure.

Speaker 1  07:21
Yeah, it's only 459 we got some time.

Bill Clearfield  07:24
You're chopping at the bit already.

Speaker 2  07:28
Yes, so I'm actually going, I guess I'm going into this deep dive into battlefield acupuncture. And I'm discovering new stuff about it. I'm sure Dr Bill knows about it already, but

Bill Clearfield  07:44
Dr Bill teaches that, yeah, well,

Speaker 2  07:47
I'm playing around with it because I'm putting it on patients. It's a freebie. I was just surprised about how this thing is so fast that it works. And even doing a consult, we're just talking through the the history of the patient about pain, and I'm looking at my cheat sheet map, and I put a single needle on a specific ear point. While they're talking, they said, hey, you know what? The pain is gone. So Doctor Bill was actually onto something. That's my point.

Bill Clearfield  08:19
Doctor Bill, yeah, he's always, he's always nine steps ahead, but it, but it, by the time the rest of the world catches up, I have to, I have to go find something else medicine.

Speaker 3  08:29
Let's ask Bill, because he is the expert. Bill, how long have you been doing battlefield acupuncture? 2030, years.

Bill Clearfield  08:37
Let me think, yeah, 1996 I think first. And it's, it's not there anymore, I don't think, but Forbes magazine every year does the worst quack, the worst quackery of you know of the year. And in 2011 they named battlefield acupuncture is the biggest bunch of malarkey in the medical field. Wow, right? Three years later, the Air Force accepted it as a as a infield, you know, modality, and we've been training, you know, medics and how to do it ever since. So, so if you guys want to lecture on it, I can certainly do that and do it so far, our, if our, if our speaker doesn't show up, I might do it. I'm here. Okay, all right, then never mind.

Speaker 4  09:38
I've got the my I have a special camera, but it's not going to the right camera. I'm trying to get the right camera on here.

Speaker 2  09:45
So Dr Bill will available in February. Where should we lock you in? February seven, February 17 and 24 see what I'm doing. I'm doing the reverse of on you,

Bill Clearfield  09:59
Battlefield, acupuncture.

Unknown Speaker  10:03
So we're going to put you down.

Unknown Speaker  10:06
We got Siobhan on the third right.

Unknown Speaker  10:11
Shiban, yes, Shaban from Mito.

Bill Clearfield  10:14
Q, she pronounces it Siobhan. I think, okay, my bad. We've had her

Unknown Speaker  10:19
before. Yep,

Bill Clearfield  10:23
and next week, we're supposed to have somebody that I met at a 4m but I haven't.

Speaker 2  10:29
I haven't been able to. Oh, is that our hormone

Bill Clearfield  10:32
lady? Margaret eckstes Is her name?

Unknown Speaker  10:35
Oh, it's not the one that you had a dance with.

Bill Clearfield  10:38
No, no, Lindsay, no. She's too busy. She's doing it. She's putting together an oncology course. She said she'd do it after she was done with which is a decade from now. Yeah, she's too busy for us right now.

Unknown Speaker  10:53
We'll see her soon. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. I

Bill Clearfield  11:03
we already had Dustin. I had Dustin on cannabis for dementia. We already had that. That's when I had that for, oh, that was January. Sorry, we already did that. I got Siobhan on the third Yeah, so yeah. Oh, well,

Speaker 2  11:16
you mentioned about the hula balloo, about Battlefield acupuncture, so functional MRI actually had shown the effects of these needles on these specific areas where it affects the part of your brain, and how the wonders of this it was actually used during war to replace the use of opiates so they're going to so the soldiers wouldn't be all sedated When they were out there. But instead, use it. Use battlefield acupuncture to get them through what's going on in the field without sedation of opiates. So just fun facts.

Bill Clearfield  11:53
So they did. They taught you how to do it.

Speaker 2  11:57
Worst learning as we move along. But I know I

Bill Clearfield  12:01
tell you how to do it in an hour.

Speaker 2  12:03
Well, we have a full acupuncture course, so yeah, but I'm definitely going to get your private lessons for that.

Bill Clearfield  12:10
I mean, if you, if you guys, want to put me on in an hour, I can, I can show you, I mean, online, I can show you how to, how how to, how to, you know what the points are and what they do. There's 10 points.

Speaker 2  12:24
I know you have, like, a giant ear on your desk. I have a giant

Bill Clearfield  12:27
ear on my desk. Yeah, yeah, it's over there. Now. So, okay, so, well, okay, you it's after, not after. It's time here, here's, here's, those guys can see, here's the giant ear, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  12:42
Where's it at? There you go. There's your giant okay, it's got the points marked, yeah.

Speaker 2  12:47
So Bill hears everything. He has a giant ear in his office,

Bill Clearfield  12:52
among other things, yeah. So Doctor Nario, go ahead. Give us the tip of the week. Alright?

Speaker 2  12:58
So Tip of the Week. I just kind of bring everybody back to the time when we were in training, and we have what we call journal, journal analysis, right? We present that. So now I'm going to bring a journal in front of us. I think that was a little controversial. So this is a journal in relation to melatonin causing heart failure. So this is actually a 2025, study. But again, this, this will be in headlines if you haven't heard us. I've talked to a forum colleagues about this, my students, and even just patients here or just, oh, going crazy. Should I stop my melatonin? Because it's now it's related to heart failure risk. So let's slow this down and redefine print first and do what physicians do best and contextualize data. So this is actually an analysis coming from a large, preliminary observational study presented at the American Heart Association scientific sessions in 2025 using electronic medical record data across US, UK and other countries, involving 130,000 adults with diagnosed chronic insomnia, of course, using the identifier, the ICD code of F 51 key point here that matters when you include the UK. In the UK, melatonin is actually a prescription only drug. So it's a drug. So melatonin use here is not casual supplement use in this study, it likely reflects more severe insomnia physician involvement and higher baseline medical complexity. So this is already a very different population than the average wellness patient that we see taking 0.5 milligrams at night that we use to again, I guess, handle in our practices. So the reported outcomes here. So let me tell you the studies result over five years of follow up, incidental heart failure for melatonin users, 5% non users, two to 3% so leading to a hazard ratio of 1.8 to 1.9 what does that mean? 90% higher relative risk when you're using melatonin for an incidental heart failure. Another one would be heart failure hospitalizations. So 19% for melatonin users, versus six to 7% for non users. So 3.5 fold relative risk, so all cause mortality, 7.8 for the users and 4.3 for the non users, thus two fold higher risk. So important reminders here, these are relative risks, not absolute proofs of causation. So here are several critical limitations, or the when we kind of criticize our journals. So here in the study, the confounding by indication, meaning chronic insomnia itself is strongly associated, usually with sympathetic overdrive, hypertension, inflammation and Cardiometabolic disease. Thus, melatonin here likely marks sicker sleepers, not a toxic exposure. Number two, reverse causation early as a clinical heart failure causes nocturnal dyspnea, fragmented sleep, circadian disruption, so patients may take melatonin because they're a heart failure is already developing. And number three, incomplete transparency, this work is currently an abstract, a press release in a media of some media summaries are included in this when you look at it in the internet again, full methodology, model specifications, those stratifications and sensitivity analysis have not yet been publicly vetted, so this is where balance matters. So multiple small clinical trials in patients would establish heart failure shows to improve NYHA classifications. So this is get Guido et al. 2003 showed stable, chronic heart failure benefited from melatonin using five to 10 milligrams and improved quality of life from bruger P et al, 2011 and even when you use melatonin, IT trends towards improved left ventricle ejection fraction. So mechanistic literature here is you can use melatonin heart failure and even ischemic reperfusion injury. So consistency, it has been showing melatonin as a good antioxidant, anti inflammatory, autonomic stabilizer and mitochondrial protector, that biological points characteristics of melatonin actually leads us towards protection and not harm. So the most accurate interpretation here is not melatonin causes heart failure, but it is possibly chronic insomnia is dangerous. Melatonin uses against identifies a higher risk phenotype, and long term nightly use should prompt cardiovascular and seed depth evaluation. So melatonin is likely a risk marker, not a risk driver in this specific study. So thank you, and no, you don't need to ban melatonin from your practice based on a press release, and that's our tip of the week. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  17:46
So Dr Leonard says firemen are off at the scene of a fire. Are they the cause of the fire? Well, most of the time not. But back home in Wilkes, barre, PA, there was actually a scandal where, where firefighters were setting fires, and then, and then rushing, you know, reporting them, rushing them, rushing into to save the day. So it was, it was, it was probably about 1520, years ago that they were actually, you know, setting fires themselves.

Speaker 2  18:13
Well, yeah, remember, this is coming from American Heart Association, right, right. This is not our, I guess what? Our base, our foundation. It's not our base. No, yeah, but just to give our head, our clinicians heads up here, Don't be flustered by this, this data. We got questioned about this in a firm when we're doing a lecture, and some of us haven't read the literature yet. So I did a deep dive about this to kind of tell you that this is really not right now. It's not true yet.

Bill Clearfield  18:44
Okay. Dr Andrews, is this your slide here? Why his cancer has not been cured or,

Unknown Speaker  18:49
Oh yeah, you can see that already.

Bill Clearfield  18:50
Okay, good, yeah, okay, I thought it was. Dr narios, okay. I was going to ask him the question, but now we'll, we'll get to you in a second here. Okay, million dollar question somebody asked. We were talking about Battlefield acupuncture, yeah, the ASP needles, that's that's the way us, yeah, that those are the ones I use when the patient to go home. And Dr narrow today, so we use them in the office too, in the clinic, and I'll use body needles there, in the ear for that, and then take them out and then put the semi permanent ones to go home. It's much better out in the west coast depends on, actually, on where you where you are when, when I first learned how to do this, I was in Pennsylvania, where there's a lot of humidity, and the needles would come out the home needles, they would come out in a day or two. Out here, they'll last anywhere from three to three days to a week, and they come out on their own.

Speaker 2  19:41
Yeah. So well, if you come here to our clinic, you'll see all my staff with needles on their ears. Unfortunately, they're my lab rats, because we're going to be tested in in school. So, so when you come here to our clinic, it's all good. They're safe. I got their consents

Bill Clearfield  19:57
and Dr learners. Everything happens in Wilkes Barre. So actually, the saying is, everything happens to me and Dick Tracy in Wilkes Barre. So if you remember, there was a cartoon called Dick Tracy. It was, you know, yeah, guy. His name was Al Capp, and he was actually from Wilkes Barre. He was the guy who drew it. And there's, there's a statue of them actually going from downtown Wilkes Barre to a town called mountain top, about halfway up. That's it. If somebody says to you, everything happens to me and Dick Tracy, you know, they're from your north you know, they're from Northeast Pennsylvania, among other things, they'll also say things like, I'm going to go up the mall, not to the mall or down the shore. You know that from there, but me that as it may so tonight, we're pleased to have Dr Bill Andrews with us, and we were going to talk about the what, why, how and and how not to age. He's fresh from a starring role at the at our recent Congress of medical excellence 5.0 Doctor Andrews is a molecular biologist, a bio gerontologist. He's best known as the founder and president and CEO of Sierra Sciences, a company dedicated to extending human lifespan and health span through telomere research. Doctor Bill earned his PhD in Molecular and population genetics from the University of Georgia in 1981 he's held key research roles at several biotech firms, including Jerry on Corporation, where he led the team that identified RNA and protein components of the human telomerase. He's a principal discoverer of telomerase, a key enzyme in aging, and was awarded second place as national Inventor of the Year for his cancer. He has over 50 patents and authored numerous scientific papers in the field of aging and telomere biology. So Doctor Andrews, it's an honor to have you and take the floor.

Speaker 4  22:01
Alright, let me bring my PowerPoint up. Your

Bill Clearfield  22:04
mother must be proud. Whose mother yours would read a resume like that?

Speaker 4  22:10
She was, she was, it was, hold on. Let me get. How do I get my I can't see my own screen because I got a one. Okay, so good. Let me just says, Because, all right, I have to, okay, good. So I want to, I want to begin with a pitch about something, a serious problem that I think needs to be resolved, and that is has to do with why cancer hasn't been cured yet. And, oops. Okay. So my okay. So there goes. Okay. So likewise, why hasn't heart disease and dementia and multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy and aging, etc? Why haven't those been cured yet? And it's not because scientists don't know what to do, and that's what I want to discuss here, okay, it's because in academic research, there is a problem of publish or perish. Publish or perish. You publish something, you get a grant, grants. You do more publish or perish, more publications, so that you can get more grants, on and on and on and on. So the problem in academic research is the thing that people gage their success on is by the number of publications they have, not on curing diseases. In commercial research, you start a company to do some research, you get an investor, suddenly you're not in control of that company. You don't own the company anymore. The investor owns a company. The investor wants a quick return on investment. Then the investor wants an exit strategy, then he invests in another company. Quick, wants a quick return on investment, exit strategy, on and on and on, the gage of success here again, is not curing it. Curing any diseases is how much money the investor makes. Then there's the companies that have been started by these celebrity billionaires. Okay, so they've hired celebrity officers. They've those officers have hired celebrity advisors. Those advisors have hired celebrity scientists, and again, the gage of success now is celebrity is being celebrities. It's that's what it's all is what the problem is that there's no cures. Nothing is being cured because none of these things are working. The system's not working. It's broken. Okay? So the solution is that we need to get hold of very discreet, ultra high net worth individuals, not the well known ultra high net worth individuals, because they're all, they're still, even though they have a lot of money, they're still focused on on how much money they can make. And that's, that's my opinion, a real problem, because it doesn't lead to cures. Okay, the problem with these is very discrete. Ultra high net worth individuals is just by their definition of being very discrete. How do we reach them? Well, the number one thing that all ultra high net worth individuals have to do is see their doctors as probably the one best conduit to get to these very discrete ultra high net worth individuals. So I'm calling for a call to action that I'm asking that doctors, when who have patients that are considered very discrete, ultra high net worth individuals. They should be telling these doctors that the diseases that these even these individuals, are suffering from cancer, heart disease, etc, and their loved ones are suffering from, they're not going to get cured unless they actually start doing something about it to help and at least help financially, and that's that's something they don't know. They believe that every everything else, everybody else, has things under control, and they need to know that they're not under control. And I have attached a document to the chat that I would like to have doctors provide to any of their patients that are considered ultra high net worth individuals to bring a solution to this kind of problem, all right? And that's that's just my pitch there at the beginning. I'm actually doing that at all my presentations now. So my I've been obsessed with the subject of aging my entire life, because I want to do something about it. I, you know, all through school and stuff like that, I've been focused on trying to deal with how to understand aging really well. Okay, so I got a bachelor's degree in biology and experimental psychology. And the only reason I got a bachelor's degree in experimental psychology, when, besides the fact that psychology plays a big role in aging, is because in the bachelor's program, there was no nobody was teaching you how to be a scientist. And so when I went to the counselors at the school at UC San Diego to complain about this, they said, Well, go to experimental psychology. They teach you how to be a scientist. So I ended up learning a lot of different things, which I'm not going to go through, just mathematical modeling, statistical theory, most things that, most things that most biologists don't know a thing about. Okay, key ones like construct validity on the bottom right or middle right, things like that. It's just unheard of in the biology field, but not in experimental psychology. I then went and got my PhD in population genetics and molecular genetics, because, again, I wanted to learn what I needed to know about, about aging. Okay, so population genetics is the subject of how and why of evolution, as opposed to the what and when. So I went I needed to know, for instance, why did we never evolve a way not to age? If aging was such a bad thing for us, why haven't we evolved away not to age? So molecular genetics is how do genes work? And this pretty much tells us how we can solve all the problems, how we how can we succeed where evolution failed us. How can we fix the problems that exist now that evolution never solved for us? What I've learned as a result of all this is that from all this education and just obsession putting all this arsenal of tools together, is that nobody knows what aging is. Nobody knows why we age, nobody knows how we age, and nobody knows how not to age. This is something, even though there's a tremendous number of theories, a number of publication books written on the subject, when you really start doing a lot of serious, deep thinking about it, like I have my entire life, you start realizing that everybody's got it wrong. It's all the twos and twos have to add up. There's no single theory that explains everything we know about aging, and so that's why I've been focused on that. And when I got my PhD, finally, I realized I still did not have enough information. I still needed to learn a little bit more before I could really start focusing on aging, and so I went into biotech instead, became a medical researcher in biotech, and I applied this arsenal of tools to the discovery of a lot of different things. I probably have more inventions discoveries in the medical field, to my credit, than anybody else you've ever heard of. Okay, I'm one of the key inventors of human growth hormone, tissue, plasminogen activator, Erythropoietin, on and on and on, lots of cancer drugs, including right Tello that's on the bottom right, that just got approved by the FDA last year I I've been the inventor, or CO inventor, of more biotech breakthroughs than anybody I I've ever heard of. I was also awarded second place for a national Inventor of the Year in the United States for my cancer research. And the key thing is that I am trying to focus on trying to find a cure for aging now, and I can cure aging, and my track record shows it okay. I've, I've gotten almost everything I've worked on before was following everybody else saying it was impossible, and I was able to pull it off. So this is, this is my track record, and that's why, that's why I believe that I can actually cure aging. And the reason I put that pitch at the beginning is the only obstacle to curing aging is the appropriate amount of funding. All the problems that I listed, I've been experiencing all myself. So what I've learned a new way of thinking about everything. From all this work that I've done, of learning everything I can, I've learned that health, all aspects of health, is like a tug of war. We have mechanisms of mechanisms in our bodies for decreasing our health and increasing our health, and it's like a tug of war that's that's back and forth and back and forth. Now most of us, or a lot of us, really just have this one sided tug of war where we just have decreasing health, and as a result, we just get sick and sick and sicker and die early deaths.

Speaker 4  31:40
Okay, so we there are things that we can do to decrease some of these things that are causing us to decrease health, but we we really need to start putting focusing on putting people on the other side of this tug of war to increase health. And what we ultimately want to do is we want to win this tug of war with so much we're doing so many good things that we actually win the tug of war, which actually does not exist yet. Okay, something else that I've learned about, about the way to think about medical stuff, is that we are just a gamish Now, I don't, I don't know exactly what this word means, gamish, but it's something I've been using my. a typical biochemical chart of all the different biochemical pathways in our body, and it's a gamish but it's worse than you think. Okay, I want to, like, zoom in on just one piece of this thing, and we can see that it's a biochemical pathway where one molecule gets acted by another molecule gets becomes another molecule gets acted by another molecule gets acted by another on and on and on. This is what biochemical pathways are. But if you are somebody like me that has done a lot of work looking at the biochemical pathways.

Speaker 5  33:01
Can I just intervene? Is a Yiddish word or German? It's German or Yiddish, yeah, conglomeration of a bunch of different things. How do you spell it? Just how you did gimish.

Speaker 4  33:15
Okay, so I did spell, right? I don't know why. When I put that into Google, just to verify that, I tried to spell it right earlier today, couldn't it said the word doesn't exist. Well, you

Speaker 5  33:24
have to say German or Yiddish. Bill knows the stuff. Consult bill,

Unknown Speaker  33:30
all right. I think I used the word at the excellence conference.

Bill Clearfield  33:34
It means it's the small stuff. Don't bother me. And, you know, flick your flick your shoulder. You know, don't, don't give me a gamish

Speaker 4  33:45
so, you know, I can't see any of you now with in front of my side. I don't know who's actually talking, but the but, but here's the thing, is that it's a lot more complicated than this. If you see your likes, like me, I've done a lot of experiments to find out what binds to what, et cetera. Scientists do this all the time. This is how these biochemical pathways came up. They would look to see what binds to what. But when you start looking at what binds to what, you find out that everything binds to everything, until you start increasing stringency, and then you find out what's the strongest binder. Then everybody forgets about all the other things that bind. So in reality, we're our bio chemical pathways are more like this. We have things going every different direction, and it's really a gamish and it's all this commission that makes us human. So it's really hard to really understand biochemical pathways. You just can't look at it and figure out a cure. You have to dig deeper, do a lot of deep thinking about what's going on when you're trying to come up with cures for things. And let me just some of this might be more complicated than needs to be for the talk, but other two other things, one, is gene regulation, the regulation of genes, turning genes on and off. That's what epigenetics is. And a lot of people treat this as too simple, too you have a promoter, which I like to call it dimmer switch, because promoters can be turned on and off to different levels. And so what happens is some protein binds to that thing and turns the gene on. Okay, that's the very simple minded approach towards thinking about this, but it's actually a lot more complicated. It's, again, a gamish of things, and all these things bind, and then just by looking at what binds and stuff like that, you have no idea what's going to happen. The only way to know is to actually do the test and find out, and actually study do, do diagnostics on humans to find out what is actually happening with that gene. Is it being turned on? Is it being turned off, and what to what levels? Again, it's a commish now, this is a really important thing here, because this actually plays a big role. And this is something, something called enhancer sequences. And I'm sure a lot of you have never heard of these enhancer sequences, because I think the only place you ever hear about it is in advanced molecular biology. But again, you have a gene, you have a promoter, the dimmer switch, but then you have something called an enhancer sequence that's a long ways away from this promoter, and it actually the DNA will actually fold over, come in contact with this promoter, with a bunch of other proteins, and turn the gene on. This is a very, very important part of gene regulation that has made studying gene regulation very difficult. So a lot of people get really big misinterpretations of thinking it's thinking that the genes are just too simple. They don't realize that sometimes genes are regulated by things far, far away along the chromosome from the actual promoter. But again, every DNA is an enhancer. Every single bit of DNA has the ability to bind proteins that can fold over and regulate that gene. And again, we don't know what's going to happen. We just it's just not that simple. And again, it's a good mission, but it's these kind of things that I've been thinking about my entire life that have actually made it so that I have succeeded at coming up with cures for some of these diseases when nobody else could do it. So but my focus is on aging. I've been asking my entire life, what is aging? Why do we age? How do we age? How do we not age? And I want to make it clear, I'm not obsessed with this because I'm afraid of dying. I am obsessed with this because I think there's a lot of great things that are going to happen in the future. This is a scene from Star Trek, first contact and when we actually make contact with life from other planets, I want to be there. It's not a fear of dying. It's a fear of missing out that really is driving me, and I want us all to be able to benefit from research to try to increase our bill, increase our ability to live longer and healthier, and if anything, what I want to do today is I want to show you that that aging can be cured. There's no reason it can't be cured. It is something we don't have to have to have. Okay. Now, after many years of working in other companies, I finally started my own company in 1998 called Sierra Sciences to focus exclusively on trying to cure the aging process. This is my website. You can go to that. It's also included in the attachment that I've included in the chats. But it's really important. 150,000 people die of aging on this planet every single day. And it turns out, there's studies, and the link to one of the key studies is shown below here, if we have limited eliminated aging, half of us would still be alive and healthy in 1000 years from now. This is how impact bigger role aging plays in our diseases. And I want you to think about aging is not just a health related thing. Aging is something that's a very programmed thing in our body. That's why aging is very synchronous. Okay, we can, you can walk down the street, you know how old people are, just by looking at them, plus or minus a few years, and you can always tell, same with animals. You can tell you can look at a dog or cat or something, you can tell that that cat's old or young. And the synchrony between with within humans is very consistent, but it's very different from the synchrony that's occurred occurs in other animals. So there's something programmable. The questions that I often ask myself is, why, if aging is something that's totally controlled by environment, why do some why do we all age at the same rate, even if we live on the pole, north or south pole, or live on the equator, where the environments are very different. And why do dogs and cats age at different rates than humans? Okay, so aging is something that I think is very controllable, just because of the fact that it seems to be very controlled to something that's that is exist in our body that's programmed. Okay, so the title of my talk is the what, why, how and how not, of aging. And I'm not going to be able to talk about everything and less than 10 hours. So I want you, I want to direct you to my website, which is a www.crsi.com, and you can get a lot more details by watching key videos and documentaries, where I go through almost every one of the things I'm going to talk about today in extreme, excruciating, great detail. Okay? And my email address is B Andrews at Sierra side comm. I actually love reading emails and answering questions. So if anybody wants to follow up on anything I talk about today, please don't hesitate to email me, and I'll provide those later, again towards the end of this talk. So I first want to talk about the what and the what is probably the toughest thing to talk about. I'm not going to go as much detail as I did at the medical excellence conference, but

Speaker 4  41:15
there are the hallmarks of aging, okay? And I don't like this idea of this is what aging is, because nobody has really explained what the hallmarks, what causes the hallmarks in most cases. So we have all these things that cause aging, but nobody has explained really what causes the causes of aging, except in a few of them, which one of which I'm going to be talking about today. Okay, there's a lot of biomarkers of aging. A lot of people define aging just by the biomarkers and and, yeah, we have all these biomarkers. There's four that have been come really popular lately. That's telomere length, DNA, methylation, IgG, glycosylation and total RNA sequencing. The bottom ones, my favorite actually, because it's the really best definition of epigenetics. It really is the best measure of epigenetics. But they're all, they're all pretty good at correlating with aging. Okay, the. aging, reversing a biomarker of aging doesn't mean that you have reversed aging. It only means that you have reversed the biomarker. And so when a patient comes into your office and says, I wish I was younger. I wish we could do something to make me younger. They're not saying that they want their telomere length longer. They're not saying they want their DNA methylation patterns changed, or their IgG glycosylation patterns changed. They they want to or their hand grip is stronger. They want to look, feel and behave like they're 25 again. Now we don't have a good measure of aging. Bottom line of what aging is is we really can't we don't know aging is not measurable, but we all know which bit, which photo of Betty White was taken first. Somehow we know that, okay, we can remove the wrinkles, the fat in the skin, the hair color, everything like that. We would still know that the photo on the right of Betty White was taken after the photo on the bed on the left of Betty White. This is her 85 and at 25 and I'm sorry she's passed away now, because one of the big goals that I had was to actually be able to see if we could turn Betty White back into 25 again. And I'm serious when I say that. I really think it's possible, and you'll see why later on in this talk. Okay, but I consider that aging, even though we can't measure it, it's not quantitative. It's qualitatively quantitative. So here at Sierra Sciences, we use terms called QQ scores. You can take one picture, or you can have several different people, and you can put them in line in terms of age by qualitatively quantitating them, even though you can't quantitate it. And we call that QQ, giving them QQ scores. Okay, this is what I call reversal of aging, when we actually turn somebody from a picture on the right to the picture on the left. And that's not just biomarkers, the biomarkers aren't going to do it if you reverse the biomarkers, but a person and some patient, and that patient has not shown reversal, like shown in here, in that picture, then Aging has not been cured. Nobody in the history of the planet has ever passed this test, and aging will never be reversed until somebody actually does pass this test. I call this the Betty White test, and that is my gage of success. This is how I'm going to gage my success. And when I get the research completed to the point where I say I have reversed aging, there's a lot of products on the market now, where companies are claiming to reverse aging, but no, none of them have actually passed this test. Okay, that's all I have on the what? Because there isn't there. We don't really know. Nobody really knows what aging is, and this is one of the reasons why the FDA has not made its call it a disease. Okay? I call it a disease. That's why say I'm going to cure it. But it's like nobody has actually called it a can. Nobody can really define it as a disease until we can measure it. Next, I want to talk about why we age, and this is something I'd spent a lot of time talking at the medical excellence conference. But why did we evolve aging? That's the big question. This is one of the reasons I did a population genetics background, a PhD when I was in graduate school, okay, but more importantly, why did we never evolve away, not to age? If aging is so bad for us, well, here's here's the whole story simplified into just three different statements, but you can learn more. Hear more about what I have to say on this by going to my website and watching the videos. But the bottom line is, the more diverse a species is, the more likely that species will survive rapidly changing environments. So evolution has all been about increased diversity within species. Now it turns out that eliminating the longer lived adds diversity to the species, and that's because during sexual reproduction, we are shuffling genes, and when we have offspring, that's that. Offspring is a shuffle of our genes between two people, creating a gene combination that probably never existed anywhere on the planet before. Well, once you've done that, you now become longer once you've raised your young, you become longer lived. That's my definition of longer lived, I don't like to use the word old, because life's about living life's not about getting old. Okay, so eliminating the longer lived as diversity, because after you've raised your young, there is going to be more diversity by letting the offspring integrative than letting the parents re breed, and as a result, a species is going to have more diversity if it eliminates the longer lived. So elimination of the longer live, not just by aging, but all other ways of eliminating the longer lived, cancer, heart disease, all these different diseases that we've evolved, or never evolved, not to have that result only, or they're more common when we are longer lived than we're shorter lived. All these diseases, if we could, if by having them, helps our species eliminate the longer lived which is beneficial to the species. Okay, that's all I want to see on the why, and you can hear more at my videos on the website. But now let's go to the how. Now, again, I'm not going to spend as much time as I did at the medical excellence conference, but aging begins with wear and tear. But it's wear and tear that occurs during normal bodily functions to survive. Okay, we have to consume, we eat, we have to eat, we have to sleep, we have to do all these different things that require wear and tear of our body, our organs, tissues and organs. There's wear and tear that has to occur just to be able to survive. That's that's something we cannot stop, that wear and tear is going to be happen, and that's what they're actually that's where the synchrony comes from. It comes from the wear and tear that that has to occur from normal bodily function. Now we can accelerate that with poor lifestyles and poor genetics, but bottom line is we have to have a minimum amount of wear and tear just to be able to survive. Now this is the the thing that kind of doesn't make sense at first, but humans have the ability to replace damaged cells, so even though the cells get damaged from wear and tear, we can replace them. And therefore, why do we age? Okay, and so we shouldn't age, really, if that was all there was to aging, just wear and tear. But the problem is that human cell division, at least cell division in humans, is limited. I got, I got human in there twice. It's limited and the and not only that, but every time a human cell divides, it undergoes changes that correlate with aging. Okay, so every time a human cell divides, even the epigenetics of that cell changes and is permanent. Okay, so something is going on there that's called this is, I'm going to explain here is, when we are on a human is a fertilized egg. And I want to say this is not true in all animals. It's true in dogs, cats, horses, sheep, pig and deer, humans and primates. But it's not true for rodents, and like rats and mice and rabbits, rodents age entirely different than this, and that's one of the reasons why I think rats and mice are a terrible animal to be studying aging in. But when we are fertilized egg, our cell can only divide 100 times. And a lot of people say, well, that's not enough times to create a human but it turns out, if you do the math on the you know, 248, 1632, math, you would find that if a human cell divides 100 times, it'll make a mass larger than the planet Jupiter. Okay, so 100 cell divisions is quite a lot, but after the cell divides and becomes two cells, there's only 99 more times that. So those cells can divide, then four cells can only divide, 9897 96 when we're first conceived or first born, we've already down to only 50 cell divisions left, and we still have a lot of cell divisions to go, because we've got to grow up and stuff like that.

Speaker 4  51:12
4843 3820 when we get to be really old, we have less than 10. Get really longer lived. We have less than 10 cell divisions left to go. And this is actually a big, big problem with human aging in humans and the other animals that I mentioned. This is called the Hayflick limit. It was discovered in the late 1950s early 1960s was published in 1961 by Dr Leonard Hayflick. Most people said this can't possibly be true. Took years before people started really believing it to be true, and now every lab in the world that works on human cells knows that it's true, because when you go to buy cells that are from a vendor, you have to specify how many populations does that sell have that when you buy it, because you don't want to buy a cells that are too old, because you won't be able to Get those cells to divide enough times in your research so you can actually ask the vendor, how many times are these cells divided? And then you can buy the cells and then count them and verify that they were that was the correct number. There's something like ride tickets at an amusement park inside of our cells. This is something I realized back when I was still in college at my anti aging clubs, and this is something that I struggled with for a long time. What could these ride tickets be? Because that was the only explanation as to why. How are how our cells could only have a limited number of cell divisions? How do they how do our cells know how many times it can divide, or how many times it has divided, and how many times more times it has left to divide when cells don't actually have brains? So there had to be something like ride tickets in an amusement park inside of our cells. What are those tickets? And that was a dilemma that I bothered for a long time. But I want to say that no matter what else we do to cure aging, with all these other theories and everything like that about aging. No matter what else we do, our lifespans and health spans are still going to be limited unless we solve this Hayflick limit problem. This is the biggest problem there is in terms of aging, because we will never live very long if we don't no matter what else we do, unless we solve this Hayflick limit problem, and it's the only cause of aging, theoretical or non theoretical that actually can say this. Okay, so the question is, why is human cell division limited? And we now know, long story short, is due to telomere shortening. We were able to show this in the mid 1990s it made headline news, etc. We were able to show that telomere shortening is 100% the explanation of the Hayflick limit. So what's a telomere? We just have to zoom in on a human body and then zoom in on the cells. Not going to go into much detail, because I'm sure all of you know this stuff already, chromosomes, chromosomes, the top arm and the bottom arm. Each arm contains a DNA molecule that's tremendously long. The DNA is all folded up like a slinky in each of these arms. But I want you to think of these long DNA molecules as shoelaces, and we know that shoelaces, our shoelaces, have caps at the end called aglets and and the aglets protect your shoelaces. Well, our chromosomes are the DNA in our chromosomes have the same thing. They're shown here in yellow. They're called telomeres. The telomeres protect our chromosome. So telomeres are made up of DNA. Also there's very special sequence of T, T, a G, G. I'm sure most of you know that DNA is made up of four different bases, and the sequence of telomeres is a repeated sequence of T, T, a G, G. So if we unravel the slinky of the telomere part of the chromosome, we see that a telomere is about 15,000 bases in length, where the beads are called bases, and that's at least when we're first conceived. And this is where all the troubles begin, because of the cell division that I talked about every time our cells divide, each and every time they divide, our telomeres get a little bit shorter. And so there's so much cell division going from the time we're single cell embryo to a newborn baby that by the time we are born, we've already lost half of our functional telomeres, the part that I call the ride tickets. So we have we were conceived at 15,000 bases. When we're born, we only have 10,000 bases. But the problem doesn't end there, because we still have a lot of cell division, a lot of growing to do, wounds, to heal, infections, to fight. So there's a lot of cell division. Our telomeres get shorter and shorter, and when our telomeres get down to 5000 bases, our cells lose the ability to function, and we die of old age, and this is what is happening. This is not a theory. This is a fact. Every single lab that ever works on human cells in a petri dish knows that this is true. I go over that again. We are conceived at 15,000 bases. Were born at 5000 bases, and we die of old age at we were born at 10,000 bases and we die of old age at 5000 paces. And until recently, there's absolutely nothing we could do about this. It's an actual ticking clock exists in all of us, and that turns out, is that. So the this is the where the ride tickets are. The ride tickets are found at the very tips of our chromosomes, and we lose a ride ticket every time our cells divide. We lose a little bit of telomere sequence every time a cell divides. So it's been, now known from our work in our lab and several labs that telomere shortening absolutely puts a maximum limit on our lifespan and health span of 125 years. And this was reassuring because there had already been several publications. More recent publication is shown below, showing that other measures, using statistical theory and sociological studies and things like that, demographic studies, etc, have shown that, other ways, have shown that, yes, our human our human lifespan is has a maximum of 125 years, and now telomeres explains why that is. That's the first thing that's ever come along that explains the synchrony and explains the limit on our lifespan, and also explains why we see changes that occur as we age. Now it's not just aging okay, it turns out now that every disease you've ever heard of, except for just a handful of them, are now caused or at least associated with, the shortening of telomeres. And in most lot of cases, it doesn't. The telomere shortening doesn't cause the disease, but it causes the symptoms of the disease. And I'm not going to go through today and explain all these things, but I do explain a lot of these things in a lot of my videos. And these diseases, telomere shortening diseases are called telomeropathies. If you ever want to do a Google search to learn about any of the these diseases or PubMed search, let's say, but telomeropathies and how to their role, the role telomeres play in diseases, just do a search using the word telomeropathies. Okay, the bottom line is, bad things happen when telomeres get short. I know Sonny's on this call Sonny win, and he, he uses that term all the time. I used to use that a lot, but I'm getting back to using it now. All right, so that's pretty much the how, and so now the key thing is the how not after everything that I've been studying my entire life, where is this led me on to figure out how not to age? Okay? Well, first thing comes to mind is that we, we learned that telomeres don't shorten in our reproductive cells. And this was really important, because if telomeres did shorten in our reproductive cells, our children would be born with shorter telomeres than we have, since

Speaker 4  59:41
being reproduction requires cell division, and so since our children aren't born with shorter telomeres, they're born as telomeres as long as we had when we were born. That means that there's something going on in our reproductive cells that prevent telomere shortening. So we discovered in the mid 1990s that that something in in our reproductive cells is called human telomerase. It's an enzyme. It's only found in our reproductive cells. And this figure here is showing our DNA now is a green squiggly double helix, and this, this factory looking thing, is human telomerase. It binds to the very tips of our chromosomes, and it lengthens the telomeres. And it's, it's so first the telomeres shorten and then telomerase re lengthens them. That's what I want to show here in our reproductive cells. I want to come back to this tug of war analogy. In our reproductive cells, we have shorteners and we have lengtheners. And in our and we know that the lengtheners are telomerase. The only thing that's ever been discovered in normal human cells that can lengthen telomeres is telomerase. And you're going to hear a lot of fenders are going to tell you they have products that lengthen telomeres. Well, they don't really lengthen telomeres unless they produce telomerase. And I'm going to come back to that too. So in our reproductive cells, it's a tug of war that's a tie. And the key thing to show here is that first the telomeres shorten, then telomerase re lengthens them. Telomeres shorten again every time it's cell devised, and telomerase re lengthens them. So it's a two step process. Now in all the other cells of our body, there are no lengtheners at all, so we just have shortening occurring all the time through our entire life. So how do we add people to the other side? That's what's really that's what I want to do. That's one. That's the approach that I am trying to do to to develop a cure for aging. Well, there's two approaches we're taking. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on them. One is called gene induction. Since our reproductive cells contain the gene, since they produce telomerase, that means they contain the gene for telomerase. It's just the gene is turned off in all of our cells, as shown in a second here. When we go back, I guess it's not going to recycle here. Yeah. Okay, so it's turned off by this protein that's called a repressor, and we're looking for things that can bind to that repressor, to just lodge that promoter, that repressor this shutting the promoter off and turning the gene on. So that's what we're doing. We're looking for molecules of all kinds, mostly nutraceuticals, because they don't require FDA approval. But that's what we're doing. We're looking for things that will turn the gene on. We're also doing something called gene therapy, which is where a gene therapy will fuse with the cell. The gene therapy contains the gene, the gene produces telomerase, and because we have the ability to engineer that gene, it produces a lot of telomerase. And so just think of these as two soap bubbles. The small thing is a gene therapy that we construct, and we can use that, and that's how we get most of our proof of principle concepts that we have shown that I I'm not going to discuss today, but I will tell you they're in my videos, we have proof of concept showing that we can reverse aging in every way imaginable or measurable that you can ever think about in human cells in a petri dish, human skin grown on The back of mice, and also engineered mice. I mentioned mice don't age by telomere shortening, but we have created engineered mice that do, and we show that they age like humans, and then by inducing telomerase by Gene therapy, we can reverse their aging. And there's a video Diane Sawyer interviewed a colleague of mine work who is working on this, Dr, Rhonda Pinel. And you can actually see all these mice. Or you can talk to Sonny win, who's on this call, and he has the video, if anybody would like to see that. Okay, so and you can learn more about these techniques. I go in a lot more details at Sierra my website, www dot Sierra side.com. Okay, I want to come back to this slide, because now it's a little more complete. No matter what else we do to cure aging, our lifespans and health spans will still be limited unless we solve the telomere shortening problem, because it's not the Hayflick limit problem that's really the culprit. It's the telomere shortening. This to corporate we have to solve that problem if we ever want to live healthy longer than 125 years. So now, what can you tell your patients? This is where everything's leading up to, okay, well, first you're going to have patients that want to have their telomere lengths measured. I'm the inventor, or CO inventor, of every method there is that exists to measure telomeres lengths, also telomerase measure. I'm co inventor, inventor of every method for measuring telomerase activity, but I can tell you that most people do not know how to do these tests. And the only test that actually I have any faith in, because of the difficulty in doing them, unless there's somebody in my lab who knows how to do these things, is a test that I call it's called fluorescence in situ hybridization, abbreviated f, i, S, H, and some people do this, but only one lab in the world actually will actually report what percent of telomeres that are short. And because of the fact that I'm not supposed to be talking about products and stuff during this call, I'm going to just tell you that if, if you were looking for a vendor, just look for a company that does telomere length measurements, that that actually measure telomeres by fluorescence and situ hybridization, and that they report the percent of telomeres that are short, because that is a Much better measurement. The percent of telomeres that are short is a much better measurement than the average telomere length, because it's really most aging occurs when telomeres get critically short. So I'll leave it that now we can also do things that your patients can also be taught how to slow down accelerated telomere shortening. Okay, so

Speaker 4  1:06:31
and so. Accelerated telomere shortening just means that even though we have a maximum limit of 125 years, we can do things to accelerate that shortening. And that's inflammation, oxidative stress, things like that. So anything that reduces inflammation, oxidative stress, DNA damage, UV, exposure, etc, all these things can be used to decrease the rate of accelerated telomere shorting. And I just want to go through some of these things, exercise. I put that first because a lot of people think of exercise as something that increases inflammation and oxidative stress. But I'm big into exercise. I've done a lot. I've gone to a lot of like, ultra marathons and things like that. I've done blood work on runners before, during and after the race, to really start studying what's going on. And I've learned that exercise can be inflammatory if you're somebody that rarely exercises, and then when you do exercise, you exercise really hard, because exercise, because your body thinks that this damage to your joints, this pain to your joints, and stuff like that, is some something attacking you, and so it induces an immune response, which is going to cause inflammation. But when you exercise every day and you keep it fun, you build immune tolerance, just like normal, immune tolerance to something just as simple as exercise, so your body does not cause an inflammatory response, and people can actually go out and run 100 miles and then run the very next day without any problems, because they're not stiff as a board. If you if you're the occasional runner that runs every two weeks and then runs a marathon, you're going to do well, but you're going to be on your hands and knees, throwing up afterwards, and you're going to be stiff as a board for two weeks just because of all the inflammation that's migrated to your joints, so just keep exercise fun, consistent and fun. Okay, so also take your antioxidants, take your anti inflammatories, tell your patients to do that at least control sugar levels. Now there's a lot of ways to control sugar levels. There are products now that actually will convert sugar that you eat into fiber, and we know fiber is good for you, so these are kind of products that people can be taking right now to keep their sugar levels down. There's also reduced toxins. Okay, try to find foods that don't contain toxins. But there's also products that you can find that actually that can actually remove toxins from your foods after you eat them. Just take the take these things when you eat and they can reduce your toxins, avoid inflammatory foods. There are actually really good tests that you can get now. These are not allergy tests. These are sensitivity tests for testing inflammation. You can actually get your blood tested for what foods cause inflammation, and just Google it. You can find these companies in Google searches, but don't focus on look for inflammatory tests, not inflammation test, not not allergy tests, because, of course, IGE and IGA are very different. Maintain gut health. There are products that you can take, that your patients can take, that actually will do a really good job of maintaining gut health. Don't be obese, obese and smoking, which I thought I had on that here, both of those things are probably the best things to increase oxidative stress and inflammation in your body. Don't do those. Reduce stress, especially the kind that your boss gives you. So psychological stress, uh, reduced depression. Those, those things, all these things, will cut will they? Well, by doing all these things, you can reduce accelerated telomere shortening to them to the max. Now that's so let me just discuss this again. Okay, so we're, this is what? So we have shorteners that are pulling our telomeres, that are pulling our telomeres to shorten them, but we can remove some of these people by antioxidants. So we that's accelerated telomere shortening before we show them. This is now we reduce the accelerated telomere shortening with the anti inflammatories, antioxidants. We can do the same with anti inflammatories, but it turns out there's a limit to how much we can do. There's a something called basal level telomere shortening caused by something called the end replication problem. My videos explain this in great detail, but this is something that that makes it so that we cannot get below what a basal level telomere shortening rate is, and that's what limits our lifespan to 125 years, our lifespan and our health span. So just bear with me, because this goes slower because there's fewer people, all right, so now we can add people to the other side. We have, especially from research done in my labs, we have found ways to do this. Now we have, we haven't won the tug of war, but we have, we have discovered nutraceuticals, things like that, that actually will add people did the other side of the tug of war, and now people say, Yeah, but you're still aging. You're not curing aging. Well, I want to make a really important thing. This is slowing down aging. This is a really good thing, and I'm just always shocked. Number of people say they're just. telomerase gene therapy, which I mentioned we use for our proof of concept studies, but it's extremely expensive and it's actually extremely risky. There are clinical studies underway, including some that I'm doing to look at gene therapy, but the only people that I would ever let participate in studies are people that have life threatening diseases that are more likely going to have negative effects from not getting the treatment than from getting the treatment. Okay, but we there are things that people can take now that are nutraceuticals that will add people to the other side of the tug of war and decrease the rate of shortening. Now, does this exist yet? As I just said, it only exists in gene therapies. But is there any nutraceuticals? Are there nutraceuticals that can win the tug of war? This is what we would really like to have, but not yet. Okay, they don't exist yet. And you're going to hear marketers telling you they they have them already and things like that. And I'm going to explain in a few minutes how to know, how to be able to find out what's real and what's not real when you listen to these, these vendors. But given our research, we we believe that we can actually win this tug of war. We can find a nutraceutical or something else that can win this tug of war within one to three years, if we could get this sufficient funding. And this is one of the reasons I made the pitches at the beginning, is because the only obstacle that we have right now is sufficient funding this research that we do to learn search for these nutraceuticals and stuff is cost us $2 million a month on average, and it's very hard for us to complete that research. If we had that money, we could have this research completed in one to three years, and believe me, every penny would go into the research. Okay, so now I wanted to, I said companies say that they already have products that do this. Why do some companies claim that their products do lengthen telomeres? And here's why. Okay, so what they can do is they can show data that before they can measure the telomere lengths, even if they're using a good method, method for measure, they can measure the telomere length in your blood. They can show that they are short before you get treated, then after you treat it, they get longer. Okay, well, it turns out that doesn't mean that the telomeres got lengthened. There's other ways to actually make the telomeres in the blood longer, without lengthen them that pretty much, because it comes down to just a redistribution of cells in your body. So like one example here that I'm going to come with more in a few minutes, is when we have an immune response reaction cells in our bone marrow, naive immune cells and things like,

Speaker 4  1:15:10
what is the other word? I can't remember the other one, but naive immune cells in our bone marrow, which already have long telomeres, even when you're 90 year olds 9090, years old, you still have cells in your bone marrow that have really long telomeres. These cells divide and infiltrate your blood, okay? And that's, that's what makes them longer, one of the things that makes them longer, okay, only telomerase lengthens telomeres. And so when you when somebody says they have a product, as did their product induce telomerase expression. And let me explain this a little more detail. So if somebody tells you that their treatment lengthens telomeres, the first thing you want to do is you want to ask if their treatment expresses telomerase, because it doesn't. If it doesn't lengthen telomeres, if it doesn't express telomerase, if not it does not lengthen telomeres. Okay. Now we here at Sierra Sciences because of the fact there's zero telomerase produced in all the other cells of our body. We can't there's a bunch of changes occurring in my cell slide here, we cannot say how much. We cannot gage our success in producing telomerase in our cells by saying, how, how much fold over background do we have since the background zero? Okay, so any kind of expression, any kind of production of telomerase, if a background is zero, is going to be infinite expression. So because you get the division by zero, problems. So instead of measuring by fold over background, we look at the amount of telomerase produced in HeLa cells. HeLa cells is a very famous cancer cell line, and we look at this because it just so happens that HeLa cells express just as much telomerase as needed to tie the tug of war, so it produces just as much telomerase as our reproductive cells. Do that tie the tug of war? So there's a few red lines that just popped up on my slides. I don't know where those came from. Oh, now they're going to stay with me. Okay, so now, so if somebody tells you that their treatment length and Steelers ask if their treatment expresses more telomerase than Hela does. If not, it does not lengthen telomeres. Even if it did produce any telomerase, it's not going to it's not going to reverse aging or lengthen telomeres, and by reversing it's not going to lengthen telomeres to reverse aging unless it produces more telomerase than Hela does, but you're going to find out that nobody has any data showing that they are producing any telomerase at all. Okay, so I'm going to explain it in a little different way here. Okay, so we have a lot of different types of cells in our blood, but every different every single type of cell in our blood is also a mixture of cells with different telomere lengths, because the telomere length in any blood cell except red blood cells that don't have any telomeres because they don't have nuclei all the white blood cells, they length of the telomeres in each cell depends on how many times that cell has divided before it got to where it is, and some cells have divided more times than others. So you have a big distribution of telomere lengths in your blood. This is one of the things that makes it really hard to measure, because most companies, all they do is report the average telomere length, and as a result, you think all your telomeres are the same length, okay, but since we have this big distribution, don't, don't, don't think that when somebody reports your telomere lengths, that all all the cells in your blood have the same telomere length. Okay, so if we remove cells from your blood that have short telomeres, the average length of your telomeres increase increases. And that's just like if, let's use an analogy of a company. If you have a company and you fire your dumbest employees, the average IQ of your company increases without anybody getting any smarter. Okay, so the same thing is happening in our blood if we remove cells with short telomeres, the average length of the average length of the remaining cells in our blood increases without any lengthening occurring. This is a publication from PubMed showing that any product that is toxic at all will preferentially kill the cells with the shortest telomeres, because the cells with the shortest telomeres are more sensitive to toxins than cells with longer telomeres. So every time you do anything that's kind of toxic at all to your body, it's going to increase the average length of your telomeres, but because other cells have to divide to replace the killed cells, the average telomere length of your whole body has decreased, even though the blood telomere lengths have increased. So this is this is a real this is one of the explanations to why a lot of companies claim that they're lengthening telomeres. They're not. Their product is just removing. One of the explanations their product is removing cells with short telomeres without lengthening and causing the average length of the remaining cells in their blood to be longer. Same thing happens if you were to add new cells to your body, to your blood, have long telomeres. As I mentioned before, when you have an immune response, cells in your bone marrow divide, infiltrate your blood, adding cells to to have long telomeres. Again, your average telomeres are going to increase in length without any lengthening. It'd be the same if your company hire geniuses. The average IQ of your company increases without anybody getting any smarter. The average length of our telomeres will increase without any lengthening occurring. Here's a publication that's showing any product that induces an immune response is actually going to add new cells to your blood. Okay, so bottom line, a treatment that is toxic or immunogenic is going to do the same thing without any telomere lengthening. You need to measure telomerase expression if you want to believe that your product is actually lengthening telomeres. And this is what you have to ask the companies, the vendors that are selling products they're claiming to lengthen telomeres, you have to ask them, do they have any data that's showing that they are inducing to long race expression? And if you find any, please let me know, because I would like to see their data, and I would almost certainly tell you that their data is not what they think it is. Okay. So we do test every product here at Sierra Sciences, and when we get a result, we do let the companies know. And so look for our Sierra Sciences or the Bill Andrews seal of approval when some company says that they measure it. Because we if some company says they have a product that actually does lengthen telomeres, we will let them say that. Let them show our data, showing it. Okay, now I'm going to finish up now things I didn't spend time talking on. There's a lot of rumors that used to exist. They hardly exist anymore, especially since 2017 people, there's people that believe that telomerase causes cancer, but it does not cause cancer. It actually decreases the risk of cancer by boosting the telomere length in our immune cells. Our immune cells are our best defense against cancer, but it also keeps telomeres from getting short in our cancer cells, that actually in the short telomeres in our cancer cells causes cause skyrocketing mutation rates, which actually causes the cancers to mutate to a form that produces its own telomerase. So if we can keep can't telomeres long in our in all of our cells, it'll decrease the risk of eating cancer, and if we keep telomeres long in our cancer cells, it will decrease the chances of the mutating to become immortal by inducing telomerase, and it will keep them from mutating to forms that will become resistant to whatever treatment you provide. You can learn more about this by going to pages 64 to 77 of my book called telomere lengthening. It was available@amazon.com but it's just too much trouble to keep it going there. So if anybody wants to get a copy of book, just email me and I'll send you a PDF of it for free. But there's also one of the videos that you'll find on my website, is a video that I where I spoke at a continuing medical education conference in Tokyo in 2017 there were 300 doctors in that audience. Very high profile presentation. I was my picture was even on billboards. When I got off the plane, I was surprised to see my picture on billboards. But the night before that presentation, somebody decided to get all over the news saying that telomerase causes cancer. So I stayed up all night, added some slides to my presentation that begin at 25 minutes and 25 seconds into that presentation, where I beyond beyond a shadow of a doubt, proved that telomerase does not cause cancer, and you can watch that video just begin at 2525 and continue watching until one hour and two minutes, because that's how long it took me to show all the data that proves that telomerase does not cause cancer and actually decreases the risk of cancer. Okay, so there's a lot of things I didn't discuss for more on telomera Bage again, go to my website. There's a website, and click on that button,

Speaker 4  1:25:08
proof of concept experiments. I mentioned them, but you can see the data. You can actually see the experiments that were done to proof of concept using the gene therapy approach. You can see aging mechanisms that exist in other life forms. I mentioned that there's only a few animals that age by telomere shortening. What causes aging in all the other animals? Well, they do have aging processes, because it turns out it's still beneficial to eliminate the longer live for every species. It's just that not every animal eliminated the longer live by shutting off the telomerase gene. So go to you can listen to my explanation of all the other animals. You can look at the mechanism of action for why a telomere length puts a limit on our lifestyle. Why does the short telomeres actually put a limit on our lifespan? I have videos that explain that and excruciating biochemical and molecular genetic detail. There's also mechanism of action for why we see changes in everyone as we age. Okay, so when the telomere gets shorter and shorter and shorter, why does that cause changes? And I'm going to be tell you right now that is because telomeres are enhancer sequences. I mentioned enhancer sequences before that fold over, come in contact with genes and turn the dimmer switches, the promoters on and off of our genes. Well, telomeres are enhancer sequences. The difference between telomeres and regular enhancer sequences is that telomeres get shorter, so can't reach as far. What causes basal level telomere shortening? Okay, I didn't go into that detail, but why? Why did the telomere shorten every time a cell divides? You can, you can learn about what all that is by going to my videos. And then there's a lot of data from these products that we developed that only add one people, one person to the lengthy inside of the tug of war. But there's a lot of data coming out, anecdotal data that's, you know, I don't always believe anecdotal data, but some of this data is really difficult to believe, especially the results we're seeing in some of the older patients. Okay, we are seeing some age reversal when the telomerase is only producing enough when the genes are only producing enough telomerase to put one person on the lengthening side of the tug of war. Well, now we know why that is happening, and that is explained, and it has to do with the fact that when telomeres get critically short, there are fewer people pulling to shorten the telomeres. Okay, there's like the analogies I use are falling off a cliff. I also use an analogy explaining the telomeres like a ball of yarn, and the telomeres based in is the tip of the telomeres in the middle of that ball of yarn. And when the ball yarn is big, it's hard for telomerase to get to that tip, to lengthen it. But when the telomere gets short, that ball yarn gets smaller, and it's easier for the telomerase to get in, to lengthen it. But probably went over that too fast, but watch the videos, and there's much, much more in there. So my vision, living is the greatest thing that ever happened to us. We all are taking it for granted, and we only get it once. Living is just the greatest thing that ever happened to us. We it's I love living. I don't want to ever see living become any less lovable for any of us, including myself, just because of this dumb thing called aging, which I think does not have to occur. We know enough about aging that we know it's just a just exists for the survival of our species. Well, now we're smarter than evolution. We can undo this thing that we evolved or never discovered a way to not evolve because it was beneficial to the species. So that's my vision. My motto is curating or die trying. Thank you. And I'm just going to leave that up while we see if there's any questions. So if anybody hasn't had a chance to write down my website or email address, all right? So I'm going to, I guess I can't leave this stuff because I

Bill Clearfield  1:29:21
got to stop the share analysis. Lots of questions here. Okay, all right, we got Ellen from Helen care Vietnam. May I ask, how many times of multiple is may be accepted? I'm not sure what that question is.

Speaker 4  1:29:35
So are these? These are not on the chat. Yeah, they are, okay. I don't see them on my chat. Let me just Oh. Now they just popped up. Okay. Now I see 23

Unknown Speaker  1:29:48
I'm not sure Helen, if you're still on with us.

Speaker 5  1:29:56
That question was about how many divisions of the cycle that you talked about.

Speaker 4  1:30:03
So our cells can only divide a maximum 100 times, okay? And by the time we're born, there's only 50 cell divisions left. And that's not a theory, that's a fact. And I actually some of my videos, I actually show pages from vendors, where you actually specify the age of the donor of the cells you're working with, and number of times those cells have divided since then,

Bill Clearfield  1:30:32
another one. I'm not quite sure what the question do we know? If our children have long telomeres, they are expected to live a shorter life than us.

Speaker 4  1:30:40
If they have long telomeres, they live a normal update, correct. Everybody's born or conceived at 15,000 bases and born at 10,000 bases. There are exceptions, especially the disease called Huntington Guilford disease, where children are born, conceived and born with short telomeres, and they end up dying of all the age related ailments that normal old people do when they're 20 years old. Okay, there's the pictures of these people are horrible. The work research that I'm doing would be a cure for these, these diseases. A lot of people studying the diseases look for problems within these children, but it turns out the problems actually in their parents. Their parents had a defective telomerase gene. As a result, the sperm or the egg had short telomeres, and these children ended up being conceived with short telomeres, even if they did not inherit the problems with their parents, telomerase gene.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:43
Dr antoli has her hand up.

Speaker 6  1:31:49
Are you there? I wanted to say that's such amazing presentation, and it's not even, I don't think it's that much money for the I mean, this is a breakthrough in in science. I mean, I to be able to make people live longer and all this reverse aging. That's, that's unbelievable.

Speaker 4  1:32:12
You would think so. You would think so. But ever I've had 50 plus investors, I'm sure glad to see Michael Gerber here. I just, I just see his picture for the first time. How you doing that? I've had 50 plus investors. All of them were more interested in a quick return on their investment than they were in actually getting a cure for diseases. They all, all of the investors. They're all my they're they're focused on trying to make quick return on their investments. They all think they can solve the aging process later on. And as a result, even though we succeeded at getting them their quick return on investment, they wanted to sell the company. And this would have sold, you know, lost all my IP and everything. I was lucky to find ways to get out from under all that. And now I own 100% of my company, and I'm only going to be looking for people that really need me to cure their aging, and believe I can cure their aging.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:16
That would be all of us, wouldn't it?

Unknown Speaker  1:33:19
Yeah, all of us may

Bill Clearfield  1:33:20
be here, but you don't get you don't get out of the so let me ask you this. I took one of those true age tests. They're supposed to, you know, tell you what, how your insides are. They told me my tell me I'm 72 my telomeres, I'm 55.9 actually, these tests, they could tell you anything. How do I know what? But ironically, I don't even know. My interest is in hormones. My hormones, I'm 79 that was my worst category. Are those tests of

Speaker 4  1:33:53
any use? Yeah, I do think that true diagnostics with markets, true age. It's run by Ryan Smith. He's the founder of the company. I do believe he's one of the smartest people I've ever met in terms of this. But they're only measuring aging, finding using tests that correlate with aging, and they're actually not measuring telomere lengths, because telomere lengths are very difficult to measure correctly. They're actually and this is something that I've promoted a lot is it's actually the DNA methylation patterns actually correlate very well with telomere lengths. So you can actually predict the telomere lengths from the DNA methylation patterns. So they true diagnostic measures your methylation and your DNA, not your telomere lengths. But since you mentioned a product, I'm going to take the opportunity to mention, yeah, no, we're good. Go ahead, the company that actually is the best for measuring telomeres is a company called Life length. They're the only company in the world that actually uses what other companies use, fluorescence in situ hybridization, but they're the only company that actually looks at each cell with a microscope, looks at each telomer with a microscope, and then reports the percent of telomeres that are short. They're located in Spain. That's the only place, but you can still get tested by them, because they have companies all over through the United States that will collect your blood. They'll even send a phlebotomist to your office or home, collect your blood, send it to Spain and give you your measurement. That is the best commercial way of actually measuring your telomere lengths, right? What was the name of that? Again, life length, L, I, F, E, L, E, N, G, T, h2, words, and then their website is www.lifelink.com, and lifelinks just one word there in the website.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:50
Okay, great.

Speaker 4  1:35:52
Okay, I think the previous woman still had some more questions. I interrupted her.

Speaker 6  1:35:57
Okay, Dr auntoli, do you have any I just want to say that I attended the conference with ta 65 in Manhattan, and the doctor took the doctor who presented. He's the

Speaker 4  1:36:08
founder of this company, Joe Rafi, oh yeah,

Speaker 6  1:36:12
yes, yes, yes, yes. He said that, if we get the infection, about an infection, our gentleman shortened by half. And he told us also, the senescent cells decrease if we have longer telomeres. So because our immune system is affected, because high percentage of the cells are senescent cells. And I he's, he works with a younger man who comes the conferences, and he is, he told me that he takes this product and he looks,

Speaker 4  1:36:46
you're probably talking about Joe Raphael. He's not the founder. He's a doctor. Works with the company I used to work with, ta sciences, who sells market to six, five. I'm, I'm one of the key inventors of ta 65 Wow. But I want you to ask them to show your data that shows that they produce telomerase

Speaker 6  1:37:14
because he had, he had, or he works with some labs in California, in LA, that they check the local nurse. But I did not He gave us some PDF. He gave us some you USB that we can put in Look at all this, but I didn't have time to

Speaker 4  1:37:37
do it. Did you get the USB at a for m,

Speaker 6  1:37:42
yeah, I met with him first time when I was in short load in foration.

Speaker 4  1:37:50
I've got, I've got that same, same memory stick right here. But the if you, if you open it up, you'll see that my name is listed on the very first publication for the discovery of ta 65 but it also showed data. Figure, I think it's figure three in that paper. Is my data showing that I was able to detect telomerase expression from ta 65 but it was but it was, but you have to look at how much is being produced, okay? And now they have since published a lot of data saying that they're lengthening telomeres, but all they're doing is they're seeing that their telomeres are longer after treatment than before, and only in the blood, okay? And so that's why I just mentioned that thing about you can you can have telomeres longer after treatment than before by anything that's toxic or immunogenic, because it actually causes a redistribution of the cells, but without any lengthening. So I'm not going to say anything more, because I don't want, yeah, I understand with cease and desist letters, yeah.

Speaker 6  1:39:08
I want to say something very important. If you that there, it's we in our blood. So you said that after birth, that cell divides only 50 times. But which cells specifically? Because some of cells, they divide every seven days, some of them every 100 days.

Speaker 4  1:39:28
I mean, they have different that's not true, though. There's a lot of rumors going around, but people aren't taking into account the 248, 16, math. Okay? People keep telling me, yeah, we lose 100 million cells from our skin a day. How's that possible? Of our cells only divide. You know, our cells divide typically once every two and a half or two and a half years. Okay? And they don't divide every seven days. That's anybody working with cells knows that the only way to get cells to divide that often is to really use a lot of mitogens and stuff like that, which would be very lethal to a human if they took those mitogens themselves.

Speaker 6  1:40:09
That's amazing. And the other thing is that there is a product, so embryonic stem cells in our blood. We have embryonic stem cells, and those reverses ages by 2.5 years when

Speaker 4  1:40:21
we activate them, we have stem cells in our blood. We don't have embryonic

Speaker 6  1:40:26
stem cells in our blood. It's called the embryonic like stem cell vs here.

Speaker 4  1:40:31
Okay, you're using a terminology I'm assuming some company has invented to make the product sound better. But the the only cells in the entire human body that actually do produce telomerase are human embryonic stem cells. And when I was working at Geron Corporation, Geron was one of the key companies that was involved in the discovery of human embryonic stem cells. At least when I was there, we funded the labs at two universities, I think, in Wisconsin and somewhere else, Johns Hopkins that actually did the discovery. So, yeah, there's a lot of misinformation being circulated, and I would recommend I do a podcast, called up one where I do what's called critical meta analysis of peer reviewed studies. Not just meta analysis, but I go in and I analyze the papers and research. Look at data analysis, experimental design, construct validity, statistical theory. Look at all these things and really determine whether papers are real or not real, because, remember, the publisher perish. People are trying anything they can to get the number of publications up, because their gage of success is the number of publications that they have. So there's a lot of misinformation out there in the scientific peer review literature, but I would recommend send me an email. Yes, I can. I can follow up on a lot of this stuff, because that's what I'm really good at, and that's what my podcast is all about. Go look for the up one podcast with Bill Andrews. So Bill Clearfield, can I ask a question? Yes, you just mentioned ta 65 can I? Can I that's fine. Okay, so, so the best product that I have ever discovered is called televital, and it is available through a company called Touchstone essentials, but it has the most potent telomerase inducers that we've ever discovered in that product is, you're always out of it. Well, yeah, that's the problem is that we tried ordering it myself, and I couldn't get it. We did so well at a 4m

Bill Clearfield  1:42:48
we tell Sonny, we need

Speaker 4  1:42:50
some more. Yeah, well, sonny, are you still on the call? Do you? Can you provide any different clues to when it will be available again? Because I don't market it.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:58
I just discovered, you know, Sunny to go in the Go, go back there

Speaker 4  1:43:02
and make, make a new patch. Are you allowed to say, tell people be available.

Speaker 2  1:43:07
Yeah, we're good. Here. It will be available next week, and Dr Clearfield, I will be letting you know. You'll be the first person to know about it. All right. Thank you so much

Bill Clearfield  1:43:20
for all you do appreciate you. Thank you. What effect does high dose vitamins, IV, vitamin C, have on telomeres?

Speaker 4  1:43:27
There's a question. Vitamin C is really, really good. It's a great antioxidant, but it has no effect on telomerase, but it does decrease the rate of accelerated telomere shortening due to oxidative stress. Oxidative stress is a great way to accelerate the shortening of telomeres, and my videos

Bill Clearfield  1:43:45
explain how that happens too. Okay, what products transform sugar into fiber?

Speaker 4  1:43:52
Okay, so glucose control also sold by touchstone. And let me just qualify. I should disclose. I do. I do get a royalty from Touchstone essentials. My company gets a royalty from the sales of touchstone essential from televital only, and we use every penny of that to fund our research. So it's not like I'm putting a lot of money in my pocket as a result, but I don't get any commission or any any compensation from any other product. And so when I say that they have a product called glucose control, that is really good, because it converts sugar into fiber. I believe it. I've done due diligence on all their products, and I am one of touched on essentials, biggest fans, because I've never seen a company with a better array of products that really are really healthy for you on and again, I don't get any compensation for saying that whatsoever.

Unknown Speaker  1:44:53
So where can we fit that in a, you know, a diabetic, you know, diet, you know, regimen.

Speaker 4  1:45:04
Well, would that be appropriate or not? Well, it depends on, well, actually would be in all cases, yeah, so just maintaining proper sugar levels is the most important things in diabetes, but, but yeah, diabetics are not going to want their sugar levels to get too high, so glucocontroll is a good way to keep the sugar levels down, but also just consuming less sugar will do the same thing. I'm trying to trying to think of other ways to contribute there. Um, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:41
what about like Berberine? You know we use, we use Jimmy as svestri. There's another one that we use.

Speaker 4  1:45:56
Some would it be also? I know Berberine is good. I'm not familiar with the second one you just mentioned,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:03
these Jimmy Sylvester. He seems to curb Sweet Tooth for

Speaker 2  1:46:07
some reason, cinnamon, Alpha Lipoic Acid, ginseng, so it's all like blended in supplements.

Speaker 4  1:46:16
All the things you just mentioned are really good things, whether you're a diabetic or not

Bill Clearfield  1:46:21
a doctor. Someone's asking about Protandim with stating reduces oxidative stress by 50% in one

Speaker 4  1:46:29
month, works through the NRF gene. I There's I think Protandim is a good product. They do make claims that it lengthens telomeres, and you just need to ask them, does it induce telomerase expression?

Bill Clearfield  1:46:49
Okay, all right, here's somebody who's asking they have Hashimotos from time to time they have map tongue. Any experience with this?

Unknown Speaker  1:47:00
What's Matt tongue? I'm not for,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:04
you know, in Chinese medicine, you know, the tongue has all sorts of patterns that you're, oh, you're looking you're looking at, you're looking at, you know, various organs in various locations, energies in the locations on the tongue. I'm not sure

Speaker 4  1:47:19
if, maybe that's what she says, and I don't know the answers to those questions, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:25
And then there's a product specific Astragalus from Mongolia that supposedly

Speaker 4  1:47:32
lengthens telomeres. Yeah, ask them to show the data that's showing it lengthens telomeres. I'm the person that discovered that Astragalus actually can induce a little bit of telomerase, but nobody's ever been able to even reproduce that data because it was so difficult to measure.

Speaker 7  1:47:49
Lived in Mongolia for three years. He tell you to look at any of that kind of research with a little bit of a That much I know

Bill Clearfield  1:48:00
there, there are labs that sell cells without multiples. There are, there are three to 12 times again.

Speaker 4  1:48:07
I'm not sure it's probably, they're probably cancer cells. I assume they mean, when they say without multiples, they mean with that, that can divide indefinitely. And that means they're cancer cells, or

Bill Clearfield  1:48:20
that's our that's our participant from Vietnam again. So if you're still on Helen,

Speaker 7  1:48:28
let us know what, what this one's about. I'm still here. Yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:48:36
you wrote here. There are labs. They sell cells without multiples. There are three to 12 times. So I don't know if you can elaborate on that,

Speaker 8  1:48:47
because I also get from us and their lab, they say they sell like origin, not they don't want to ball. And there's some laughs in Asia, they went to ball 12 times.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:04
So I don't know, what's it better? What does multiple mean

Unknown Speaker  1:49:09
when they replicate?

Speaker 4  1:49:13
Oh, okay, so they sell, they sell cells that don't replicate, is what you're saying. Yes. Okay, so they don't replicate. There. There are labs they sell cells that don't replicate. Yeah, there are three to 12 times. What is

Speaker 8  1:49:31
the three they? I mean, there's labs in the US they don't replicate, and their labs in Asia, they replicate the cell 12 times,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:47
and then so they replicated

Speaker 8  1:49:48
it 12 times. And then what? And then I'm, don't know which was this better, whether I use the origin, and then they say it's when it come to the body. And then it gonna multiples replicate inside and some labs, they replicate it, and then so that the number of cell is more.

Speaker 4  1:50:15
Oh, yeah, you replicate, you have an increased number of cells. Yeah, I don't know if I'm going to be able to understand your question. What did you mean by origin?

Unknown Speaker  1:50:26
This meant they never replicated.

Speaker 4  1:50:29
Okay, so see, well, all cells have to have replicated to get to become a cell. And but then they so you're saying the company divided them three times, three to 12 times, and then sold them to people. I, I'm sorry. I maybe we should. You want to email me, and maybe I can help figure out the answer that question,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:54
if I understand the question better. Okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:51:00
okay, since women have had more reproductive problems and sperm count as plummeted, is

Unknown Speaker  1:51:05
it possible to tell her

Bill Clearfield  1:51:08
reproductive cells are no longer I realized there are many reasons for this.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:18
Somebody's gotta mute because I can't say it again.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:23
Are you reading I'm reading this here.

Speaker 4  1:51:27
Jeanette, so, so by reproductive problems, you're mean giving birth, not not cell divisions.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:36
And that's, that's what I

Speaker 4  1:51:40
has plummeted. Most women have more reproductive problems, and sperm count has plummeted is in our reproductive cells are no longer long.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:53
Okay, so that can be the case, but it's not okay.

Speaker 4  1:51:59
So in in the production of our egg cells up until meiosis, okay, there's telomerase is turned on, so there's no telomere shortening. Then when cells go into meiosis, there's no more DNA replication, so there's no telomere shortening. Okay, so the eggs and the sperm are all the same telomere length of 15,000 bases, and then when they're used to fertilize the egg, to when the sperm fertilizes the egg to produce the embryo, that embryo has the telomere length of both those parents, sperm and eggs. So they're 15,000 bases. I, I did. I did a three hour presentation at an infertility clinic one time on this subject. There are a lot of things that can reduce the rate of the can increase the telomere shortening and things like that in a reproductive cells. But it's rare and but even in everybody, there's going to be some sperm and some eggs that have short telomeres. And so one of the things I talked about was ways to be able to identify which egg and which sperm have long telomeres and use those for the fertilization. But yeah, there is that's a pretty let me read the rest of the question. I realize there are many reasons for this, but could you explain?

Speaker 7  1:53:26
Okay, she got it was with the spam.

Speaker 4  1:53:30
Okay, so I don't I think the reason why our children are predicted to live shorter lifespans than us has nothing to do with telomeres. Has to do with environment and health and everything like that, and lifestyle, mostly lifestyle obesity. What's another question?

Bill Clearfield  1:53:55
What products from Touchstone are good for Alzheimer's disease or senile dementia?

Speaker 4  1:54:01
Well, Alzheimer's is real difficult, and that's something that I study a lot. That's one of my clinical studies that I have listed in clinical trials.gov that's really trying to get underway, is dealing with but we did, when we did the mouse experiments with the engineered mice, we found that mice that had become demented and were unable to remember how to go through a maze did remember how to go through a maze again after we lengthen their telomeres. So it's kind of suggesting that Alzheimer's isn't the loss of memory, it's just loss of access to the memory, and lengthening telomeres could restore that access. So that's one of the reasons why one of my clinic my clinical studies, clinical trials.gov, is looking specifically at Alzheimer's, because I think it could be a cure for Alzheimer's. But there's so little so so many rumors going around about what Alzheimer's is, you know, all these new antibodies that have made that attack the beta amyloid plaques or microfiberal tangles and things like that, but none of them actually, actually decrease the symptoms of Alzheimer's. The I don't really know anything that anybody can do, except on the psychological level. I do believe I've seen a lot of studies showing that keeping your mind active doing especially math problems, the number one best test is to repeat a sequence of numbers backward. When you somebody tells you a bunch of numbers, or you read a bunch of numbers, look away, and then repeat them backward, that that involves both problem solving and memorization, and keep that keeps your mind working, one of the things so I am a scientific consultant for a company called synap that's also struggling trying to get funding, but I think they've Got a really, really great way of possibly relieving Alzheimer's, and that's there's a protein called nogo, a that exists in our cells that actually inhibits it's no G, O A that inhibits more neurites from forming when your brain, when your neurons need to reach out and connect with more neurons, they they form neurites. And no go. A inhibits neurite formation. I mean, silly. Why would we have such a thing in our brain to do that? And that's comes back to our reason why we evolved an aging process. We it's good for the species to eliminate the longer live well. So they're, they're working with me to try to come up with inhibitors to the no go a so that we can restore neurite connections and postly brain brain activity in Alzheimer's patients. But their, their first clinical studies are going to be on stroke patients, because that's one of the they believe that people with brain damage resulting in stroke could actually, people could recover by being able to induce neurites to grow. Yeah. I mean, don't mean things like, what is it called, shoot? There's been a bunch of prior oil from coconut so coconut oil, there was a lot of studies on a lot of press about coconut oil is reversing Alzheimer's in patients. But that actually turned out to be a big scam woman published a book, made a lot of money, but Trader Joe's used to make mountains of piles of coconut oil in their stores, and now they don't have them anymore. There's been so many different things that have come out that actually been touted to reverse Alzheimer's, but nothing works. We know very little about Alzheimer's still, except I believe the best thing we can do to defeat Alzheimer's is lengthen telomeres, and that's mostly in the oligodendrocytes and the schwann cell. Well, not the schwann cells, because that's peripheral nervous system, but the oligodendrocytes and the astrocyte cells, we could lengthen the telomeres in those cells and the neurons too, which they don't divide, so they don't really have telomere shortening, except by accelerated telomere shortening. But I believe telomere lengthening telomeres is probably one of our best approaches towards dealing with the Alzheimer's problem.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:39
So Dr Siegel, our integrative veterinarian, wants to know if you have anything for telomeres, testing for dogs, cats, horses,

Speaker 4  1:58:48
and any products for them. Yes, this is a very important subject for me. It's been Pet Products high on my list. More people spend more money on their pets than they do on themselves. But I have been if you watch my videos, especially one that I did in 2019 you'll hear me at the end talk about a product called Tilo, dash, T, E, L, O and dash, and then the words dash, D, A, S, H, that's named after my dog, whose name is dash, but it's essentially a salt shaker that contains telomerase inducers that you can sprinkle on dog food, cat food or horse food. I mean, it's not going to work on your rabbit food, for your rabbits, because they don't have telomere shorten it, and they have telomerase produced in all their cells already. But I'm working with a woman. She Doesn't her company doesn't have a name yet, but she's actually taking this on, and she's actually just gotten some funding and gotten some product made, and she should be launching Telo dash pretty soon. I was hoping by now, but if people, if, when Telo dash gets launched, believe me, it'll be on my website. But I think it'll be the best product ever for pets, just like I think tele vitals the best product ever for slowing down the aging process in humans, it's going to same kind of thing is going to happen with Telo dash for pets.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:27
Okay, there's a bunch of questions and suggestions about autoimmune thyroid disease. Get in touch with us. We have some videos on our website, aosrd.org and I think we have a pretty good handle on it. We have, we, I probably have about at least 150 active patients with it. And I've got it, I've got it down the the endocrinologist in town absolutely hate me. So, you know, we, you know, we're over the target. So, so, and we have a video go to, like I said, aosrd.org and just do it, open Apple find, or an open think find and type in Hashimotos or my name, and you'll find the video there. Okay, and we can do that too. So Dr Gerber has his hand up, yes.

Speaker 9  2:01:19
Dr Gerber, well, yes, thanks for your presentation. Bill, very, very great. As always. I was just wondering if you've ever looked at telomerase enhancement with hormone replacement therapy, thyroid, adrenal, sex hormones. Have you taken a look at those guys?

Speaker 4  2:01:39
Well, I haven't, but other people have. And there's that's something that we discussed in this conference I did, and that I mentioned before I talked for three hours in Bogota, Colombia in a company at a clinic called Seco fest, C, E, C, E, C, O, L, F, E, S. But there's, there's mixed data, but I do believe that, you know, any kind of hormones and stuff like that are going to be controlled by the level of the length of telomeres. And we have shown, which one did we show we have done experiments, but no, that wasn't a hormone. That was so we've looked at several different genes in vitro, in a Petri human cells in a petri dish, where we can lengthen, short and lengthen, shorten, length and shorten. And we've seen different proteins go up and down, up and down, up and down, directly in proportion to those things. And search one is what I was thinking. But that's not really a hormone search one expressions go up and down and up and down and up and down with telomere length, trying to think of what else. Yeah, but I don't know anything in particular, but there's, I can't wait to be able to do the studies. We just need to really do the studies. We have to do them in humans, and we don't want to do gene therapy to do them in humans. We want to do it with a supplement that actually will be potent enough to induce to win the tug of war in humans.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:15
Thanks. Okay, thank you. Dr Nario, do you have any questions online,

Speaker 2  2:03:22
yeah, so I think Dr Bill answered this question real good. A lot of questions about cancer, because there's a misconception that cancer cells hijacked to arm race to becoming immortal, right? That's this is what's the initial thought. But I think you did give us some good resources to follow through in your website. I think, I think this is, oh, go ahead.

Speaker 4  2:03:45
Sorry. Let me just comment. Cancers do hijack telomerase by hijacking means that when, when a cell becomes cancer, every cancer is caused by mutation, okay? And I've had numerous debates with a lot of people about this, and nobody's ever proven, okay. So cancers, cancer start with mutations, that what a cancer is is out of control cell growth. Okay? Now, remember, I was national Inventor of the Year for my cancer research, so I actually know the subject really well the but when you induce telomerase, it doesn't cause the cells to divide. All it does is give them more ride tickets so it gives them more opportunities to divide when they are supposed to divide. Okay, so, but a lot of people started thinking that, boy, you're inducing these cells to be cancer by inducing telomerase. But no, it's not. The cell are still in control now. So like, you'll never find a normal human cell that produces telomerase, except for our human embryonic stem cells, but you'll find that sometimes a cell becomes cancer, it loses growth control and starts dividing uncontrollably or with less control than it did before. And as a result, the telomeres get really short faster. And when telomeres get really short, that induces a lot of skyrocketing mutation rates through processes called chromotherapis and catages, cat database. It's called whereas, like when, like lot of my cancer research, looking at human cells in petri dishes, in microscope, I can actually see the mutations, because most of these are chromosome rearrangements. There's the mutations are so big. This is induced by critically short telomeres. Okay, so cell becomes cancer by a mutation starts dividing, telomeres get really critically short. It's approaching its Hayflick limit. But some of because of the skyrocket mutation rates, some of these cancers mutate again to induce telomerase expression, and they would have never mutated to become to produce telomerase unless the telomeres got really short. So keeping the telomeres long decreases the rate of the mutations to have cells ever become cancer, and also decreases the rate of mutations ever inducing telomerase expression. And so I'm, I'm of the belief that that in order to, in fact, I have projects here that I'm trying to get underway right now, we need to be so let me just say, right, hello, a drug that I just that I invented, that just got approval for FDA, that's a telomerase inhibitor. The problem with it, and I said this 30 years ago, when I first invented it, the problem is that when you inhibit telomerase, you cause the telomeres to get even more critically short. Which causes more mutation, more skyrocketing mutation rates, which causes cancers to come back every single time. And that's what's happening. And so right? Tell it got still approved because of the fact that even though the cancers all come back, they add that add months to a person's life. What I'm trying to do is I'm trying to find ways of keeping telomeres long in cancer cells, actually by lengthening the telomeres in the cancer cells and then taking the telomerase inducer away, and then treating the body with a poison that kills any cell containing telomerase, and that without lengthening, without causing telomere shorten. I call these there's two projects that one is called toxic HTR, the other one's called toxic nucleotides. And I've got those projects underway here because I believe that if we could kill kill any cell in the body that's producing telomerase and without letting telomeres get short, that will kill the cancers and they'll never come back. And but, yeah, watch my videos the especially the one. It's called, I think I've got it labeled as telomerase does not cause cancer, but it's from Tokyo, 2017 where I've gone in great excruciating detail to explain that telomerase doesn't cause cancer, and actually telomerase decreases the risk of cancer. So sorry, I spent more time than I should on that one, but it's a very important subject to me.

Speaker 2  2:08:38
Question Dr nariel, anymore. Yeah, so this one just again, I think you kind of mentioned this in passing, and you already mentioned products about this. So there is what we call mistakes or over hype approaches in an anti aging. Again, as you mentioned about lengthing telomeres and how you explain that what we should ask for in relation to quality products. So what are these other products to watch out for in terms of the claim to fame is again lengthening telomeres. I think he brought up in this question, they brought they brought up some examples, such as NAD boosters, synolytics, on your hit list. What are the ones that we should keep an eye out for you? Kind of

Speaker 4  2:09:27
mentioned some a while ago. Well, I would, I would do na do boosters. Okay, I think that's really good. We probably won't be necessary after we come up with something, a telomerase inducer that wins the tug of war. But taking nicotinamide riboside is, in my opinion, and I've done lots of studies, is the best way to be inducing NAD levels. The senolytics. Problem with senolytics is, if they're really, really successful, that can be a real problem, because 90% of cells in like a person's skin, when you're 90 years old are senolytic You don't want to be killing all those cells, okay, but senolytics, I think, is going to be enhanced when we actually start lengthening telomeres, and we might be, as I mentioned before, already lengthening telomeres in senolytic cells, because when telomeres get critically short, they become easier to lengthen. But I'm, I'm, actually, I won't take any senolytics. I'm, I'm afraid of killing those cells. But when you kill them, other cells have to divide to replace those kill cells, otherwise you'll have, like, holes, microscopic holes, but they can be big holes. You're going to you need other you need to replace those cells by cell division. And by definition, the cell division is going to cause telomere shortening. So I'm, I'm actually, right now, very anti senolytics, but I would, I'd be very pro senolytics When we have telomerase inducers, unless, as I unless, we see what we see in vitro here in serious sciences, when you induce telomerase in senolytic cells, they become unseen, analytic. They're not senescent anymore. They come back. They come out of senescence. We were the first people in the world ever to prevent and reverse senescence. And a lot of people get senescence mixed up with what's the other one? I'm going black, probably getting too tired. What's there's another type of, oh, God, quiescence. So quiescence and senescence are very similar, but there are different mechanisms of action, and you can reverse quiescence, you just can't reverse senescence.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:55
All right? Well, again, great presentation.

Speaker 4  2:11:58
Dr Bill, thank you so much. You want me to list products that don't work. And I'll tell you, I used to do that, and I got into a lot of trouble for doing that, and my lawyer has

Unknown Speaker  2:12:08
told me to quit doing it. Well, just send it

Unknown Speaker  2:12:10
to our private group, put

Speaker 7  2:12:15
your name on it. I can turn the video off, and then you can, you can, then

Speaker 2  2:12:19
we don't have any record of it, yeah, send us an email, and then we'll just remove your name and we'll, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:12:27
hey, was this? Was this

Unknown Speaker  2:12:29
presentation recorded

Speaker 4  2:12:30
up until now? Yeah, oh, good, because I really, I thought we covered a lot of good stuff here. I did a recording

Bill Clearfield  2:12:38
again, like I told you at the conference. If you keep, keep this up, we might invite you back again. You know, I can't wait. Oh, okay, you said the magic word. How we doing about

Unknown Speaker  2:12:53
April 14? How's that sound?

Bill Clearfield  2:12:58
Sounds good to me. Okay, you're I'll remind you,

Speaker 4  2:13:02
but I have to look at my calendar, which I can't do right now. At the moment, I'll remind you I did know sunny when put down the put that link into the Tokyo webs conference on this chat site. So if you want to get to that without having to go to my website, it's

Unknown Speaker  2:13:19
right there. Okay, you got it okay, got anywhere

Unknown Speaker  2:13:23
there? Dr narrow, or we got

Speaker 6  2:13:25
it all up. They're both working. I want to ask one more question. Do you know anything about the redox ASEA water? They said that I see open up many pathway to turn on some genes, and that opens up detoxification. And some people took us here water, and in another group, and they they reverse

Speaker 4  2:13:50
aging 12 years, the famous redox product, yeah, the it's just salt water. I mean, you wait, the recorder is off, right? Yeah? Like, I mean, I don't know if I can't be quoted orders off. I don't know. I don't know a product that is more charlatan than a seal water. Okay? It is like, it's like, you can get, you can like, I've been through enough clinical studies, especially with my cancer drugs and stuff like that. I've been through clinical studies of every different product that I mentioned before, that I've co invented. I have seen in every single study, I've seen people in the placebo get cured of their disease. So you can always find case studies where people get cured by placebos, but and there's so many, that's one of the reasons I do meta analysis, or, yeah, critical meta analysis of peer reviewed studies, not just meta analysis, because there's so many papers that fall through the cracks and get approved for publication even though they're fraudulent. And so I like it when I do critical meta analysis. When I do meta analysis, I'll get two piles of papers. One says one thing, one says another, but after critical meta analysis, there's only one pile left. That's why I recommend people watch my podcast up one because I go through kind

Speaker 6  2:15:17
of stuff. And then it's a podcast with Dr Aman and Dr Todd, or something. And he talks about how he can activate the embryonic like stem cells, and then they can direct them to the ovaries, and we can make ovals again and have children again.

Speaker 4  2:15:37
See, that's I that's one of the things I talk about a lot is What? In fact, there's a podcast on what, God, what do you I am going tired the Oh, God. You know, women can't, women can't have children after a certain age. I'm, believe it or not, I'm going blank on what that's called. Somebody said it. I'd say yes, that's what I mean. But what's that? Yeah, menopause and and menopause, but women are born with all the eggs they're ever going to produce. Okay, it's just they're released from the follicles like once a month, and like a woman will have 450 cells destined to become egg cells. And she loses once a month, as soon as she reaches puberty, and 450 months later, she loses her last one. That's when that's when menopause starts. But there's no way to make more. I mean, there are people claiming to have their periods come back, things like that. I don't understand that completely, but, and maybe there's some weird thing that might occasionally allow one because the other cells, the other cells that are produced during egg cell production are end up being food for the eggs. Really nutrition for the eggs. Maybe some of times, one of those might mutate, or something like that, to become an egg cell that would really worry me, but you can't like so menopause has nothing. Is only correlated with aging, but has nothing to do with aging. Menopause is caused by things that have nothing to do with telomere shortening or anything else. It's just a counting mechanism. Woman loses an egg every six every month. And you can go 450 months, which, if you do the math, from puberty to 50, is 450 months.

Speaker 6  2:17:52
So I saw this podcast, and he says that in the blood, we have embryonic like stem cells. And this embryonic like stem cells, they are, they can become everything, including OVW ovals, and we have to activate them, and he directs them to the ovaries or to the heart or to the brain, whatever it needs to heal. And then, once they are activated, like if he directs them toward the ovaries or or toward the gonads, they become gametes, and then they become wolves. And like we can reverse all this. He says that also, through a session of the this therapy, we can reverse aging by 2.5 years.

Speaker 4  2:18:36
You got an email. I am dying to do the critical analysis on this. I've never

Speaker 6  2:18:41
heard of any publications. He's very good. He went, like, I mean, he's in the world, like, this guy, very good. He's tired. Or, like, I mean, I one doctor says that, yeah, he's very good. And this this therapy. And he also says that when we get stem cells from umbilical cord or something, they don't stay in the body. But this embryonic stem cells, they stay in the body. They also multiply after, I don't know, some longer time we find even significantly, a higher number of embryonics of the

Speaker 4  2:19:15
stem cells. Yeah, some of some of what you just said is true. Some of us not true. But all the more reason why I would like to get involved. But we can take, like, any kind of cell in the body and do induced plural potent treatment, okay, which you know, so induce plural potency to to turn a skin cell into equivalent of a embryonic stem cell, and we can induce production of new eggs. So a woman who's in her 80s could have a baby with her own egg cells by using induced plural potency. But that's not natural. Okay, that's not going to happen in the body, and there's no drug that you can take to increase that now there's, there's a lot of news about something called osk. And osk is a mixture of three of the four Yamanaka factors that will Yamanaka factors are what are used to create induced pluripotent stem cells. But osk only works in mice Because mice already have telomerase produced. Okay, it's not going to work in humans, but there's this whole business of God. I'm going to go off on a tangent here, but this whole business of osk and induce plural and genetic reprogramming is actually not rejuvenation. The only part that rejuvenates at all is the induction of telomerase. Okay? The rest of everything else is all de differentiation. That's like turning a butterfly into a caterpillar or turning a frog into a tadpole. People are saying that's rejuvenation, but in the mouse, that is rejuvenation, because they already have telomerase produced in all their cells. But it's not true in humans, okay? And this is going to be something people are going to be really disappointed to see and with this whole osk Skype process, because you only need three of the Yamanaka factories in mice, whereas you need four in humans. Yeah, those are, that's a subject that I could spend hours on. I just, I'm kind of upset about the press that's being released about that?

Speaker 6  2:21:43
Yeah, I just Google it and it's on internet. If you look podcast about DSL with Dr Amen, is his wife and

Speaker 4  2:21:52
him and this doctor, can you send me the link? Because I have to confess, I have a hard time understanding what you're saying, so I don't know the name of the person that you're mentioning.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:08
Send me, Send me. Go to send me an email with the

Speaker 1  2:22:13
information, because I believe she's talking about Dr Ayman avocatis.

Speaker 4  2:22:22
I don't know that name, okay, and I will, believe me, put it on the list. I'll update everybody on April 14. There you go. Yes, thank you. I just realized I am going to be in Florida on April 20, speaking. Oh, you, Bill, you're going to be there too. Yeah, you and I are both speaking at MMG, and I was actually planning on driving there. No, thanks. I don't think April 14 is going to work out, unless I change my mind and fly.

Bill Clearfield  2:23:01
We can. We can. We can make it another time if that's an issue. All right, so you're going to drive there. I actually,

Speaker 4  2:23:11
Joe will go with you. I've studied covid a lot, and I'm still fearful of getting on airplanes and going to airports

Bill Clearfield  2:23:18
because of covid. I have a whole immune protocol I have I start six weeks before I get on a plane. I'm going to go see my grandkids next week. There's five of them. The oldest is 10. So you know the odor is going to be viruses flying there. So, yeah, so I pre medicate. So, so now I don't get sick when I'm there. I only get I get sick when I get home. So, okay, yeah.

Speaker 4  2:23:49
Ammg, yeah. Ammg, the longest trip I've gone since 2019 driving. Yeah? Well, yeah, I drove to a conference in Austin, Texas in May, at the end of May, and that took me three days there and three days back. And going to Florida is going to be five

Bill Clearfield  2:24:12
to six days each. Joe old with you. He does that. He drives, he drives to

Unknown Speaker  2:24:16
Texas and back all the time. Sure. Joel,

Unknown Speaker  2:24:19
when you're ready, you bet you. That's why I got a

Speaker 4  2:24:22
Subaru Outback. I have a Subaru Outback too. No, I have the Subaru Crosstrek, just as good. The all wheel drive makes you practical. Alright?

Bill Clearfield  2:24:35
So televital, we wanted for everybody here. So we so we'll be so 50 years from now, we'll still be doing these by

Speaker 4  2:24:43
these webinars. I think there's nothing better, anybody and Chris, I'm biased royalty, but it's going all

Bill Clearfield  2:24:54
to my research. What about have you tried to combining with any other modalities that have been, you know, sort

Speaker 4  2:25:00
of proposed at all? Well, I've tested them all, and none of the other

Bill Clearfield  2:25:04
modalities work. Now that we got How about rapamycin?

Speaker 4  2:25:07
What's Yeah, I'm very opposed to rapamycin. I was head of the molecular biology division of immunology at burlex Biosciences for years, and we did a lot of studies with rapamycin. And the side effects from rapamycin are just too severe. I would never, I would never want to try rapamycin myself. But I'm not really convinced that it's showing any

Unknown Speaker  2:25:32
age reversal at all.

Speaker 4  2:25:36
About spermidine, spermidine is good. I take bean.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:43
Steve is asking about any types of peptides or bio regulators.

Speaker 4  2:25:47
You got any suggestions there? Well, since the recorder is off, yeah, recorders off, don't take epithalam. Okay. Epithelium is one of the first telomerase inducers that was discovered. It's a peptide. Vladimir kavason in Russia discovered it, but he he published a paper, I think about 2010 and he said it induces telomerase. Okay? And he shows a picture of a telomerase assay on the very front page. But all of us here at serious sciences that know how to look at two telomerase assays. Looked at that and thought, Oh, my God, that's not a telomerase assay at all. That's it may be the telomerase assay, but it's showing a pattern that's indicative of a background that we often see in molecules that don't work. So empathy. I did call Vladimir Thomas, and he's passed away about two years ago now. So I feel bad about speaking bad of the dead, but he, he refused to discuss it with me. I said, we've tried and tried to get epithelium to work in all of our assays. Were, you know, I invented, invented or CO invented all the assays. We can't get any of them to work. Can you tell us how you got it to work? That's what I was asking. He would not tell us. He just would hang up on us. And but so there's a what's his name, Bill, not, not no bills on this call, but another bill who's actually marketing epithel on great detail, and he won't even talk to me, I mean, because I and he's going to be actually just, he's speaking at ammg, okay, so this would be really fun to hear him talk and then me talk, okay, because I'm going to pretty much, he's going To guarantee after I talked, just like happened with ta sciences, everybody in the audience went to ta sciences and said, Show me your data that says, says that ta 65 induces telomerase expression. And they couldn't show it. All they could show is telomeres were longer after than before in the same with epithel. I don't think epithalam Even has telomere data showing that in that it lengthens telomeres.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:08
But if telomeres are longer than that, it's enough evidence.

Speaker 4  2:28:13
No, no, not at all. They got longer by shortening elsewhere. That's the whole point. Like, that's what I just said about if you understood what I was saying before, you can actually add cells to your blood that have telomeres, but they those. They have to divide elsewhere to to create those cells. The net result is, even though the telomeres in your blood are longer, the telomere, average telomere length of your whole body is shorter. Okay. I mean, that's this is, yeah, you and I need to talk. Especially, I think, because there's making it complicated, I would I need to give an up, have an opportunity to explain to you in greater

Speaker 6  2:28:55
detail what this is all about. Yeah, I'll come to the conference, Dr angels. So I just want to say that this changes all the our anti aging medicine, because in anti aging medicine, we have to fix the hormone, the microbiome, give nitric oxide, the NAD and all the supplement to bring to the level.

Speaker 4  2:29:13
And then I do all those things you just mentioned. Yeah, we haven't. We haven't cured aging yet, but I believe that when we come up with something potent enough to actually win the tug of war, we won't need any of those other things. Very good.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:35
Thank you. Thank you so much. Dr Andrews and for sticking out. It's almost almost 1030 on the East Coast. I see Dr Burgess is just barely hanging on there.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:49
So thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:51
Thank you for staying. Thank you so much fun. Yeah, we have a fun, really, we had fun at the conference too, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:29:59
Yeah, I can't wait for the next one,

Bill Clearfield  2:30:01
especially we started, we started looking, looking at it. We may do it at ranchera. We actually had an offer for ranchera, so it's a really nice place, so depends on whether we can afford it or not. Okay, next week I have Margarita extis. I met her at a forum, and she's going to have something interesting for us, so that'll be next week. And anybody have any comments, questions, any any conferences coming up, any talks coming up? We had Noma over the weekend. I did, I think I presented it here, the coimba protocol, the high dose vitamin D for autoimmune disease. And then I also did the new guidelines and recommendations for testosterone and estrogen since the traverse trial for testosterone, which is hailed as a breakthrough and acceptance by the FDA and the FDA, is removal of almost all black box warnings, Save one for estrogen. And so I titled the talk you know, since we've been, you know, lambasted over the last 20 years about this. So I titled the talk I told you so. So I thought, you know, all you had to do is look at the literature. We told you that what they were telling you was a bunch of baloney. So we'll fill in with those when, when either we don't have speakers or they show up late, like Dr Piper did. She got her the times wrong. And Dr Jeanette wants to know your podcast is called. Up one.

Speaker 4  2:31:55
Dr, up one. Okay. And I think sunny win. Put a link in the chat to the podcast series. Okay, is this? It here? Sunny, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:32:11
good inside. Up one. There it is. Okay, so I'll copy it again. Okay, there we go. All right. Dr Andrews will send you our participant list. You'll be able to contact those folks, or sunny, okay, the folks that were here, and I'll send you a copy of the video also when it's ready. All right, thank you. All right, everybody. Thank you so much for hanging out so long, and we'll see you again next week, same time, same station. One of the things that we were thinking about is putting together, you know, a concerted program. Usually we just get whoever's, whatever speaker we can get. But I've been thinking about maybe doing 111, third one, Tuesday a month, and we'll put the considered together a a concerted program, either on hormones or functional medicine, and go from, you know, A to B to C to D, and we'll have, you know, we'll have something for you to sort of sink your teeth into and hang your hat on. Because, you know, we'll go from Dr Andrews here to wherever we go next week. You know, last week we talked about cannabis. The week before that we had osteoporosis. So maybe if we can get it into a coherent fashion, we can, you know, get some sort of accreditation, even. So who knows what a wild idea. Okay, so thank you all so much. Dr Nario, you got anything

Speaker 2  2:33:44
to say? No, excellent lecture. Oh, I'll be doing lecture with a for him on March. So we have a women's hormones, course.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:54
So that's upcoming. Okay, all right, so we're gonna, we're probably gonna, gonna lean on you to do that so we get that you can practice with us. That's what I do at Noma. I practice. We had, there was 11 people

Speaker 2  2:34:05
in the audience, yeah, this is what we're here for.

Bill Clearfield  2:34:09
Yeah, right. Okay, all right, everybody, thank you so much. Dr, Andrews, I can't thank you enough. Sunny, thank you so much. I'll be in touch. Okay, see you all. Lots of great talks, and thank yous in the chat. Good night, everybody. Thank you. Bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai