Bill Clearfield  00:41
Hi Lisa.

Unknown Speaker  00:55
Mute There we go. There we go. How you doing?

Bill Clearfield  01:00
I'm having the time on my life and you

Unknown Speaker  01:04
I'm nervous

Bill Clearfield  01:11
we only we only bite the guests on Thursdays.

Unknown Speaker  01:15
Oh, okay,

Unknown Speaker  01:15
I'm alright.

Bill Clearfield  01:16
I was gonna say Wednesday but it's Wednesday when you are so it is

Speaker 1  01:24
just such an illustrious group. It's gonna be a little bit nerve wracking so hopefully our presentation Could you check that for me and just make sure as we had a few dramas with the plumber, you get across to you a

Bill Clearfield  01:36
I have a kind of teed up but I can't put it you know total because it will take up the whole screen otherwise until we're ready. So it's not quite as seamless as as normal. So

Speaker 1  01:49
yeah, yeah, my little bit complicated.

Bill Clearfield  01:53
While I have you on here like this beforehand, now can you see that?

Unknown Speaker  01:58
No, no.

Bill Clearfield  02:02
Okay, so you don't see it at all because I brought it up on my screen. So let me see if I bring it up. It's this one. What about now?

Speaker 1  02:15
Something's coming. Yes. Okay. I got I got it. So the view that we've got has got the slides on the side. So that I think there's a new that you can

Bill Clearfield  02:28
I can I can fix that once you're ready to go. Okay, okay.

Speaker 1  02:32
And let's just check that the videos actually play. So if you go to the third

Bill Clearfield  02:39
Okay, slide. Yeah. So I have a whole screen for you. You see that? Yep.

Unknown Speaker  02:44
Perfect. Perfect. All right. Oh, cool.

Unknown Speaker  02:49
Let's just see this

Unknown Speaker  02:50
one video.

Unknown Speaker  02:53
Right. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  02:54
the sounds

Unknown Speaker  02:58
sounds not working

Unknown Speaker  03:00
properly. Again. I hear it on my end

Unknown Speaker  03:12
Can you can you hear it?

Unknown Speaker  03:15
No. It's it's patchy. Something's wrong.

Unknown Speaker  03:18
Something's wrong. They're shut shut.

Unknown Speaker  03:25
Right now, don't

Unknown Speaker  03:27
think in the audio

Unknown Speaker  03:30
now.

Unknown Speaker  03:33
It's all my fully money

Speaker 2  03:40
I've heard of this before. I just can't remember how they fixed it.

Speaker 1  03:45
Shoot, shoot. I've also sent you the videos as separate links. Does that work if you play the video even if we just got the first and the third video going? Because it's pretty key to the

Unknown Speaker  04:04
presentation. Really nice to meet you, Joe. Likewise,

Speaker 2  04:09
likewise, really looking forward to the talk. I saw you guys interviewed briefly. Awesome. I love you. I love that Doc also highlighted that you illegally traveled the Libyan desert Yeah,

Speaker 1  04:26
yeah, we do it we you know you do what you have to do. Right? Well, was wasn't wasn't allowed to be in there at that time. But hey, it was a beautiful desert. We wanted to cross it. So we did.

Speaker 2  04:39
Well, one of the reasons I joined one of the reasons I joined the Marine Corps was because of the Beirut Beirut bombings. Wow, that happened to my time when I was in school. And yeah, let's go. Let's do this. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.

Speaker 1  04:55
When I did that was back in 19. What is it 1997 So that when I crossed the Libyan desert and was on that border area, Egypt, Libya, but it's called the Libyan desert. So here was an interesting ride. Not really,

Speaker 2  05:13
you know, Stefan's available. I mean, he's not with a patient. He might know how to fix the video quality. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  05:21
that would be great. If we can get somebody

Bill Clearfield  05:24
by his he's on. It looks fine. The sound

Unknown Speaker  05:29
is not working. Stefan.

Unknown Speaker  05:31
Can we try again?

Bill Clearfield  05:33
I turned it up as high as I can turn it up and it

Speaker 1  05:37
was working but it was all muscley and delayed. I can send you a link. I can see. Yeah,

Speaker 3  05:45
that always happens when people try to play videos and need some quotes.

Speaker 2  05:50
There. It's always too late. That's what I've heard.

Unknown Speaker  05:56
Sometimes it's worked.

Speaker 2  05:57
You might have to send a link to Doc so he could play it on his computer. Yeah,

Speaker 1  06:03
I have. He has got it and I can send it to Stefan too. If you want or anybody else I can just because I've got the links is YouTube links as well hang on. It should be should I send it to you, Bill? Yeah,

Speaker 3  06:19
we can try it out. But that's been my experience. It's just been very bad quality when every every time someone tries to play a video, I would just forego any video playing.

Unknown Speaker  06:29
I know it's pretty

Speaker 1  06:30
key to my presentation. That's the thing. It's absolutely key. This was you know, hang on, I'll just I'll send that over anyway. Then

Speaker 2  06:40
we do closed closed captioning. At least we get the words. Yeah, that

Speaker 1  06:45
might that might. I'll send you the links. These are links actually on a dropbox so that's not embedded in the PowerPoint and that might work. So I'll just send that to Dr. Bowe,

Bill Clearfield  06:58
making you a co host so in case I get tied up with this, you can let

Speaker 1  07:05
Stephen if you've got an email, I'll send it to you to the file links and then you can see what the day Oh, can you just read it out to me because I'm just on my other screen.

Unknown Speaker  07:21
Iron medicine pa okay. I are in madness Madison. There it is in the chat. a.com

Unknown Speaker  07:36
Okay, I've sent that over to you now that won't hang on. Didn't we? Do we did it go? It's gone again. I n at Gmail Gmail gmail.com.

Speaker 1  08:07
Yeah up, see if that arrives in your inbox from whether you can play it from your end. If you hit those links

Bill Clearfield  08:20
Lisa, did you send me another yep,

Speaker 1  08:23
I see that too. You too. Yeah. So this, these are just sort of raw links. They're not embedded in the PowerPoint. So these Yeah, they're in the Dropbox they may you might be able to download them and then play them.

Bill Clearfield  08:39
I haven't gotten anything from you though.

Unknown Speaker  08:43
Send it again. And this is why we jump on early.

Unknown Speaker  08:53
But practice makes perfect.

Unknown Speaker  09:04
Wherever you go on Dr. Bill, it

Bill Clearfield  09:09
Dr. Bill nine do CTR bi l nine at Gmail.

Unknown Speaker  09:27
It's gone to rejuvenate or or something

Speaker 2  09:37
I think she said it's going to your rejuvenate Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:43
Yeah, that's what's happened.

Unknown Speaker  09:46
Try and get the right

Bill Clearfield  09:48
ones difficult to find. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  09:50
Hang on. always seen it to the right one.

Speaker 4  10:01
Okay, I just sent it to you so well.

Unknown Speaker  10:23
They found that Do you get it? No.

Unknown Speaker  10:29
You didn't get it either.

Unknown Speaker  10:35
Now I got nothing

Unknown Speaker  10:42
on medicine I've only got the one screen pa

Bill Clearfield  10:54
I mean, there's mine Lisa.

Unknown Speaker  11:00
I've sent it to you, Bill. Okay. I'll send it to Stefan now to.

Unknown Speaker  11:21
Anything comfort anybody

Unknown Speaker  11:29
oh.

Unknown Speaker  11:30
Oh God take

Unknown Speaker  11:46
oh, wait a minute. Here we go.

Unknown Speaker  11:49
Best Video upscaling

Speaker 1  11:52
looks like I got it. Okay. Can you see whether they will play if you push if you're able to share? Because you'd love to have sharing rights on zoom

Bill Clearfield  12:16
this is, this is my other right hand person here down here. He noticed that you notice that? You notice the characteristics here?

Unknown Speaker  12:25
Well, it's a lovely beards.

Speaker 5  12:29
Hey, I was reading up on you Lisa. It's wonderful what you're doing. Thanks for joining us.

Speaker 1  12:35
Oh, thank you so much. Thank you. I'm really looking forward to it. So hopefully my presentation will work. We're having a few technical issues here. As you always do. If it doesn't, we'll just do our best and see how we go

Bill Clearfield  12:51
see how it goes. Okay, so we'll have to have right

Unknown Speaker  12:58
yeah, did that come through but a little bit like,

Speaker 3  13:01
it looks like a promotional video for like a movie or something. Is that right?

Speaker 1  13:06
Yeah, yeah, yeah, there's three videos. I'll just put

Speaker 3  13:09
it in the chat here. And then people can play it on there. And I think that will work pretty well.

Speaker 1  13:18
Yeah, no, I don't need to play in the actual thing. Otherwise, everyone will be off. Because it's sort of key to the could you see whether you could share it and play it or bill if you've got it? Can you share it and play it?

Bill Clearfield  13:34
I have I have it. But you said you can't hear the sound?

Unknown Speaker  13:37
No, no, but I sent you a

Unknown Speaker  13:40
second video. It looks like some mountain racing. That bones. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  13:43
we're just one. Here's three videos. Three.

Speaker 3  13:47
All three. So I'll put all three in the chat. And then people can play them.

Speaker 1  13:53
Yeah, but I needed in the presentation because it doesn't make sense otherwise, because it's part of the story. You know. You know, and I'll see whether if I push it.

Bill Clearfield  14:05
You should be seeing it now. Yep.

Speaker 1  14:11
That's in the PowerPoint though. I sent you the actual files and I sent them to Stephen as well. But just have a go otherwise we can

Bill Clearfield  14:24
you hear it now?

Unknown Speaker  14:27
Yeah, sort of not really.

Unknown Speaker  14:32
was like super glitchy. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  14:36
I know. Works fine on my end. So I can tell you

Unknown Speaker  14:42
so it looks okay.

Bill Clearfield  14:44
We're gonna we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna limp through this as best we can. Okay least works yeah.

Speaker 3  14:54
Perfectly fine on my end, but the moment you start playing it on the screen, it will like spaz out.

Unknown Speaker  14:59
Yeah,

Speaker 1  15:00
I've done it in lots and lots of zoom rooms though and it's not been a problem. A

Speaker 2  15:05
year. If you could hear a well on your end. We could shut down speakers and everything and just keep your speaker on and everybody can listen to your and then she can kind of cut in and out. When we

Bill Clearfield  15:18
play the video. Do that. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  15:20
we'll give it a go.

Unknown Speaker  15:21
Usually doesn't play at all.

Speaker 1  15:25
Yeah, so give that a go. And if it doesn't forgive me, that's not gonna work, but we'll

Bill Clearfield  15:30
see. All right, well, then we're gonna have to do a little tap dancing in some harmony.

Bill Clearfield  15:40
We'll see how well you're doing. You know. What is it? Improv? Right? Yeah,

Speaker 1  15:47
exactly. No pressure.

Bill Clearfield  15:51
All right. So you know my son was here for 20 years and that's one of the things he liked to do best. That was the do improv he do improv comedy. Get up in front of an audience and say, Okay, give me a topic and then he he'd make jokes about it. So just right out of thin air. So we'll see if he can do that.

Unknown Speaker  16:14
Sounds good?

Bill Clearfield  16:14
Yeah. All right. So let me it's a little bit after five here. What time is it where you are?

Unknown Speaker  16:22
Is 12 o'clock midday.

Bill Clearfield  16:24
Well, we'll collect midday this is I'm proud to have with us Lisa Tamati. From she's from New Zealand, and she has one of the top what do you call it? One of the she's one of the top influencers in the healthcare field in one of the top 200 pipe healthcare podcasts in in her area. I'm not sure how she found me. I was on her podcast about a month ago. He can find that at least we'll put the put it in the in the chat. Lisa tamati.com. And Lisa was an ultra marathon runner. And she's now a spent 25 years running in the Himalayas and in Death Valley. She clocked over 70,000 kilometers and you know those of us and you it's is it point six kilometers per mile. So that would be 42,000 miles or if it's 1.6. I always forget which it is. I think it's point six kilometers per mile so it would be 42,000 miles. And she even survived an illegal crossing in the Libyan desert. She may want to tell us about that. She's She resents champions resilience and grit, which is what we're all about here, because we are resilient and gritty. And she's a past winner of the May or eSports Woman of the Year award. numerous national championships. She's now a coach, a speaker podcaster and writer she's had on her if you go on her website and her podcast she's had some of the some of our speakers on the John Lewis I know was on and J Campbell was on and a few others. And she's authored five books including running hot running to extremes pushing the limits seems to be a theme there. And and she's spoken about longevity age reversal. And 140 ultra marathons I ran one and I said this is crazy. Why Why the hell would I ever want to do this to my body? Get out of bed for five days afterwards? That was enough of that. Produces documentaries, TV shows, fitness shows and when several companies I know you have a supplement line and her podcast is pushing the limits and we'll get our you'll get us the links for that. She does have videos for us to see in part of a presentation tonight and apparently the sound is not great. So I want everybody if they can to shut their sound off. And so that when we play the videos, hopefully you'll be able to hear it. We tried to a number of different ways to download it and present it to you and none of them really worked. So, so we're happy and proud to have you here Lisa thank you so much. We'll do our best to make everything work right. And if you're ready to go yep, we're, we're. We are hang on a sec. We are ready also. Okay.

Speaker 1  19:45
Brilliant. Who will get the PowerPoint up? Oh.

Bill Clearfield  19:51
Okay. Okay. So you need me to get the PowerPoint up, correct? Yeah.

Speaker 1  19:57
And all of this let you click through it. So thank you, everybody for joining us today. If you could go back to the first slide. There. Just to the that's number three so far. Yeah. Thank you. It's a wonderful privilege to be able to speak to you I am a big fan of Dr. Bowe. I found him on YouTube and I've been absolutely blown away with Dr. Bell's lectures. has extreme amount of expertise and knowledge. So thank you both for all you put out into the universe. I don't know why it's not a huge YouTube channel it should be. But that's the way of the world. All the good stuff gets pushed under and all the bad stuff gets to the top I think but I've learned an awful lot from you, and from your webinars that I've managed to watch as well. So thank you very much for everything that you do in the space. It's a real honor to be here. And what I want to do today is a little bit different. I know that you guys usually have doctors on and researchers who share their extreme brilliance. I'm not brilliant at all, but I want to share with you some of my insights from my experiences, both as an athlete and what we can learn from extreme athletes mindset, if you like, as well is a story that I want to share with you and a case story about my mother afterwards as well. So yeah, I've been an ultra marathon runner for 25 years and done all those 70,000 kilometers and raced pretty much. Our mini mini deserts from the Arabian the Libyan Niger Jordan Gobi Desert Death Valley in the USA a couple of times, which you guys might know of a race over there and Badwater ultramarathon. I've done the outback of Australia a couple of times different parts, the Indian and Nepalese Himalayas, and at one point I ran for charity right for New Zealand doing 2250 kilometers in 42 days. So that was like 52 marathons in 42 days. And the funny thing is, like I never had actually absolutely no talent whatsoever to be an athlete. So I just really, really wanted to have lots of adventures and push my own limits and through sheer determination and grit, I actually got, you know, relatively good at it and ended up at number 10 in the world at one point so it's more about grit and determination and overcoming obstacles than any sort of brilliance or genetic challenge. But so the learning objectives for today I really wanted to talk a little bit about mindset and mental toughness because some of the things that I've learned as an athlete has been really able to help me in other areas of my life when it's you know, about overcoming obstacles and not giving in and how to grind out training and how to push through rehab situations and, you know, all of these sorts of things that you come up against as an athlete, and what we can sort of take away from that. And then I want to go as I said, into the case study with my mum who, who had a massive aneurysm and a stroke nine years ago, and I will talk to her incredible journey. I've also you know, through my podcasts had the privilege of interviewing experts like Dr. Bowe, and many others over 350 Odd now over the last nine years that the podcast has been going and so I've been able to sit at the feet of masters if you like and learn and listen and so although I have never been to medical school, like all you guys have, and I don't have a PhD, I have had an unusual background and an unusual set of you know, experiences that I'd love to share some of my my learnings from from that. And then just a brief at the end I also want to touch on hyperbaric oxygen therapy. So I run a hyperbaric oxygen clinic over here and this is not going to be a really in depth look at it and I'm sure that a lot of you will probably know more about hyperbaric than than I do even but I did want to to share a little bit for those who don't know, hyperbaric oxygen therapy and all its amazing things. So, with that, let's I'm gonna go and talk to you about a race that I did in Death Valley in the USA. And does anybody you know will put your hand up or whatever that you do on Zoom. Has anyone ever been to bad water or Death Valley or anything like that? Give me a wave if you're if you're if you have yet Joe's been there Was it hot Joe? Very hot. Yep.

Speaker 2  24:27
We have Twentynine Palms over there in the desert area. It's very hot, very extreme. Very, very in fact, you're only allowed to have two beers.

Speaker 1  24:38
Because yeah, you can Yeah, it's extreme. Okay, so Death Valley. For those who don't know, in the ultra marathon world, it's sort of considered like, Kona is for the Hawaiian I mean, athletes are sort of the world unofficial world champs of our sport to sort of get a slot at this race takes a hell of a lot of a very long CV and it took me 13 years to sort of qualify for this and to get a slot in this race. And the backstory was that, yeah, I in my early 20s. I did a crossing of the Libyan desert and this was an expedition not a race. This was a four person expedition. I was there with the boyfriend at the time, and two other guys, a Yugoslavian survival expert and another guy from Austria, and we decided to do this illegal crossing because you weren't allowed to the military body area. But the most incredible beautiful desert on earth and we really wanted to cross this and at that time, there was no maps of the area except pilot Maps was all we could get ahold of. And it was 250 kilometers and we had to carry our entire water supplies on our back so we had no outside support. So Joel, you'll probably relate to this a backpack was like 35 kilos, which I don't know how much is that isn't pounds, but it was bloody heavy. And I only weighed like 58 kilos at the time. So trying to walk 45 kilometers a day was two liters of water and 40 plus degree temperatures with 35 kilos on your backpack. You Joe, you might be able to relate to that having been into desert environments. That's not sensible, shall we say? And I was young and stupid. But this was a really extreme adventure that sort of had a was a turning point in my life. Number one, I'd been with a guy that I was worth for five years, but it was a very abusive relationship. And in the middle of this desert, he decided to have a domestic with me because it wasn't helping him with the photography and doing enough and he basically broke up with me in the middle of the Libyan desert and you'll have to read my book running hot for that full story and disappeared over the sand dunes on day four. And so this was a time when I know like, if you can imagine we're in dire straits and I laugh about it now, but it wasn't funny at the time. And we have extremely dehydrated like two liters of water a day and those sort of temperatures. It's just her absolutely horrific. And we're all short tempered, as you can imagine. And so this big fight erupted between actually the two two guys are the leader on the expedition and the boyfriend because the leader on the expedition didn't quite like the way he was treating me. And so what it was not okay. And so he spoke up for me and it sort of came to a head and he left and then that was the end of the relationship pretty much but at that time, I was about to fall apart because you know, my relationships falling apart and then I realized, hang on a minute. I'm in the middle of a Libyan desert and I've got to survive. It was pretty touching go so in that moment, I learned one thing I learned how to compartmentalize my mind, so that I could still function and not fall apart in the you know, having to deal with the aftermath. Of a broken relationship which I knew that I had to put that to the side and sort of carry on and that really has stood me in good stead been able to do that sort of thing. To cut a very long story short when we did make it out I obviously survived, but I had quite a lot of physical damage. So it took me two and a half years to recover had lots of damage to my kidneys. And my all the nerves and the upper body and lots of other problems that took me a couple of years to recover from. But at the end of that it was a real turning point in my life where I said hey, I want to have these adventures but I don't want to do anything quite so crazy as that anymore. So I discovered that point something called ultra marathon running, which I heard about a race in Morocco. And this was a race that was this this couple of years later broken up with the boyfriend right and I'm recovered from the the expedition and now I hear about this race where you can go and run 240 kilometers across the Moroccan Sahara. And you've got 700 runners and you've got journalists and doctors and airplanes and full support. It's like a big military base that moves every day across the Sahara. And I read about this and it was touted as the toughest race on Earth at that point. And so I'm like I've never done an ultra marathon at this point and I'm thinking Hang on a minute. I think I could do this so I you know, compared it to the Libyan desert. And so I signed up for this race not knowing what I was getting myself and for, trained as best as I could and back then we had no idea we didn't even know you know what salt tablets were or electrolytes or any of that sort of jazz. And so I did that race and I was absolutely hooked. It was a it was a the most empowering positive experience. You've got all these people fighting through this big challenge in you know, in the middle of this incredible desert and but you're you're on a mission together and it was a real brother and sisterhood there was a it was a the camaraderie was just amazing and it just blew my mind. And so from then on, I was just absolutely addicted to ultramarathon running and I ended up doing one after the other and 25 years later, you know, I finally retired after doing way too many. But it was a really powerful experience. And what I was hoping to do now is to share a little video clip from a race that I did in bed water. So that was the Death Valley ultra marathon. So let's have a go bow. See if it goes if it doesn't, we'll give it a couple of minutes just to put you in the picture of what running an ultra marathon is okay, here we go. So gonna sit and have any sound at all. I think you might have the sound off but

Speaker 1  30:43
oh, I can talk you through a couple of minutes over anyway, as you can see lots of adventures in different parts of the world and what we're about to do is to go into the Death Valley ultra marathon which starts in a minute. And this is a 217 kilometer long race. This is actually in Death Valley now. It's going from below sea level up to two and a half 1000 meters on Mount Whitney and you've got another couple of mountain passes and the middle and the temperatures dear. Oh yes, here we go.

Speaker 6  31:18
It's five meters below sea level. The air temperature here 257 degree the road through hell. If you're looking to run it is 217 kilometers long. We believe the pansy broke her leg at 21 Doctors told her to go easy on the running. So since then she has run across the Moroccan Sahara twice run 170k across the desert in Jordan and narrowly survived kayaking down the Alaskan ufone crossing the Libyan desert she damaged her kidneys and all the upper body nerves and his shoulders. And then the feats these ultra endurance athletes are asked to run as seemingly impossible 217 kilometers over the course of this race belt climb higher than Mount Cook. More people have conquered Mount Everest. Ben have finished this race.

Speaker 4  32:28
By any any

Unknown Speaker  32:36
sport in this race,

Speaker 6  32:38
this hate can kill the unprepared. They don't call it Vitelli for nothing.

Speaker 4  32:44
That's slowly coming right now. Hitting up a whopping great class as part of the highs and lows you know, just got to try to get through the lows have not gone to school bloody hard.

Speaker 7  33:00
Imagine getting up for work on a Monday morning and just starting jogging or little bit of walking. And then two days later, you still possibly haven't got to your destination. On top of that. Imagine that you're doing it in your oven. You imagine doing all of that and climbing mountains and actually a couple of times in the middle then you'd be getting close thinks she's been through.

Speaker 6  33:19
She means she will she's she's different from 85 meters below sea level 34 hours ago to the foot of Mount Whitney and arguably one of the toughest finishes in world sport

Speaker 7  33:33
or she couldn't have a grade in about 17% at times. And there's gonna be another half marathon

Speaker 6  33:38
for it to get to the top after having already done five marathons the

Unknown Speaker  33:41
course already having done five marathons

Unknown Speaker  33:47
shattered but happy at the moment

Speaker 6  34:01
it's 10 o'clock in the morning, you see eight hours after they started. Tim Tomasi emerged from the dark a hit of what they had hoped.

Speaker 1  34:31
Guys Oh, well, that wasn't too bad. I suppose it was that okay, guys, sorry, the sound was a little bit off but I think you get the sort of a picture. So you know, when you cross the finish line and something like that it changes your perception of what you're actually capable of. Because you're you you're you're you're able to realize that you can do so much more than what you thought you could do. And therein lies the beauty of it. And it's not about being the person that got the middle put around your neck and you know, let's be honest we're a bunch of eccentric weirdos doing something quite crazy. There's no stadiums full of people shouting your name. There's no Olympic gold medals at the end of this one. But what what what what there is is the teamwork that went into that, you know, the team that were with me, I'm standing on the shoulders I would not have got across that finish line without the absolute dedication of those guys behind me. And these are some of the beautiful lessons that I took away from from achieving that. And it was something for me that I would always had, you know, being told by that boyfriend way back then and he'd cycled through Death Valley, funnily enough, and that was part of the backstory that I forgot to tell you. So I was really, he'd always told me that I was useless and I was hopeless. I was never going to amount to anything that I couldn't run. So 13 years later, when I actually crossed the finish line and Death Valley. It was like for a moment for me it was like well, actually, I can do it and I'm not useless and actually I can run and especially being an asthmatic as well, you know, and I broke my back when I was 21. And the doctors then told me that I would never run again and they were wrong, you know. So this was this all you know, comes to play really when we're talking about my mum shortly, the following year, went back and did that one again. We won't go into that. But I did want to share you another very brief story of another race that I did in the Himalayas. Now one of the reasons why I had done mostly deserts was because I was an asthmatic. I needed a hot, dry climate and it's something where there weren't too many mountains and it was more flatter. And then I could go for days and I wasn't fast. So I was never a fast runner. But I could just go and go and go right I had a good amount of endurance and an ability to endure a lot of pain and push through. And then I heard about this race in the Himalayas. Now I'd read every Himalayan mountaineering book there is you know, so I was like, I want to race in the Himalayas. And then I'm like, well, you're no good in the code. And you're no good in the mountains, and you're probably no good at altitude with your asthma. So what do I do I go and sign up for this race. Right? And this one was 222 kilometers, so a little bit longer than Death Valley. But it went from 3600 meters up to 5800 meters back down to three, six and then back to five, eight. I don't know what that is and feet but around 18,000 feet at the at the top of the parcels there so very, very high. You've got about 1/3 of the oxygen that you have in the first year. They ran this race, only three runners had turned up and two of them had ended up in hospital with altitude sickness and other medical problems. And only one person had finished the race and the guy that had won it. He was from England his name was Mark and I'd race with Mark and Niger in the Sahara and death. Valley. And this guy was not your average guy. He ran through death valley. He climbed Mount Whitney and then he ran back again. That was this bloke. He was just next level crazy. And he had actually finished this race. He managed it so they knew that it was humanly possible, because humans had never run at this level this this long and gone up twice to that sort of an altitude. So we were really pushing up against the limits of what humans have done as far as endurance at altitude went. And I rang him up and I said, Hey, what was the race like? And he said it was the toughest thing I've ever done. I've still got some health consequences from it a year later, but then he said to me one thing he said, Lisa, do you realize no woman has done this race yet? And that was it. I didn't hear anything else. All I heard was no woman had done it. And I wanted to be the first so I signed up for this race. And I had no idea how I was going to do it and I tend to do that I just jump on and then work it out along the way. And so then I went okay, what do I need to do? I need to adapt to altitude, I need more red blood cells, I need to carry more oxygen. Now I had massive problems as a woman and a cycling woman who had anemia, right? I didn't have enough blood cells anyway because they still have heavy periods as well. And so I was already struggling with anemia and then you put on altitude too. That was going to be a little bit of a problem but I watched

Speaker 1  39:10
a video on this hypoxic tent that you could buy and you could sleep on it and that would take part of the oxygen out of the air at night and help you adjust to altitude and I managed to get one of these sponsored. And I started to follow the instructions and it said to start off 1500 meters high and then go up slowly over time. And so I started to do that. And then I was starting to run out of time before the race was coming and I wasn't feeling like I had any more energy or anything else. So I rang up my ex husband, he was on that last video and he's an Austrian and he was a ultramarathon runner as well. And I said to him, hey, you've got one of these tents do I need to follow the instructions or can I go straight up higher faster because I'm running out of time before the race and he said, Ah, don't follow the instructions just go to six and a half 1000 meters every night and sleep on it every night. And I'm like, Are you sure is that safe? And he said, Yeah, yeah, I've done it before. Now I don't have any ladies listening. I've got ex husbands but if you do, never ever trust your ex husband he may be trying to knock you off. This one was obviously I slipped in this thing at six and a half 1000 meters every night. And I started to have I was very tired, very fatigued. I was having some issues, but I thought well this is just par for the course and I've got to push through right and I'm gonna get more blood cells. And be able to carry more oxygen. But after a couple of weeks, I started to have some problems. Now you medical doctors will know that when you don't have enough oxygen in the body, what happens? You end up with a proliferation of bacteria. And so I was starting to have infections and all the orifices and I was starting to have brain issues. Now you might think I have a few mental issues anyway. But this was a little bit different. I was having missing bits of my memory I'd forget. You know, I'd talk to you one day forget who you were the next day, that type of thing going on. And so I went to my doctor, my sports doctor and I sat down and he knew the sort of crazy stuff I got up to and he said, Well, what do you what do you been doing? And I said, Well, I'm hearing for this altitude race and I've been sleeping in this tent and I think I might have you know, pushed it a little bit hard. And he said, Well, how high Were you sleeping? I said six and a half 1000 meters. And he said and what was your SPO two sets you know when you put your little thing on your finger at night, I said well about 70%. Now you guys have no I didn't know but that's apparently not a good thing. 70% is a very low oxygen saturation and I was knocking off my brain cells and I'd created hypoxic brain concussion. And so I was, you know, a head of head of brain brain injury from this basically. And so he said to me, Look, you've got to get out of that tent and you better pull out of the race because you've already now sensitized your body to altitude. And this is really not a good idea. And I'm like, I can't pull out of this race. I've just spent the last year and a half training. I've got sponsors. I've got a film crew, I've got obligations, I can't pull out. And so I'm going but I'll get out of the tent or try to recover. He said, Well, you better do that. So I did that and I started to slowly improve and then I went over to Australia. A few weeks later to do preparation race and blue mountains. And this was 100 ks and they're written in the mountains, and I did this race and I got through okay, it wasn't great, but I got through it. And then the next day I was doing a photo shoot for my sponsors the North Face and the north face when they do a photo shoot. It's a bloody photo shoot, you're out there for 15 hours with multiple photographers and it's a full on day right and we were still out there at nighttime and I was very fatigued from running the 100k the day before and they were doing these night shots with flashes in the flesh hit my eyes and I came down on my ankle and I timed my step and ended up twisting my ankle and rupturing the ligaments on both sides of my ankle. You know, rip them on my left ankle. And this was like 10 weeks out from the race and the docs were saying, well, you're probably going to need seven weeks before you can run again. You better pull out of the race. And I'm like, Oh my God, I've had the worst boot up I can possibly have but oh well I'm better if I once I'm when I'm faced with an obstacle I just look at not what I can't do but what I can do and how do I get around the obstacle? Okay, I can't run anymore, but I can still do weight training. I can still swim I can still work on my mindset. I can still do everything. Else. So that's what I decided to do. I couldn't run for seven weeks. So what else can I do to still get there and I'm going and I might as well just give it my all and go anyway. So I did that and after seven weeks I was able to start slowly back running and then we were basically off. We went over to northern India. This is in a place called lane is where we were staying up in the dark region of northern India. And we get there and there's seven runners, seven runners who have turned up to compete in this crazy event. And five of them a woman and I was peeved off I tell you I thought that I'd be the only woman and I just had to get across the finish line in the last place and I'd be the first woman home right? And no five of them were woman only two guys turned up. One lady did look at the place and she went this is crazy. I'm out of here. It's too dangerous and she so she left and then we had the Indian the military up there and they were trying to stop the race because they were concerned that their you know their tourism was going to be impacted if all these crazy runners came and died while running this race because it was really dangerous what we were doing at that altitude and so they were trying to stop the race and they knew that humans shouldn't be going up to that altitude that fast and then coming back down and going back up. And so there was all this negativity in the camp. And then we had a group of doctors come over from America to study us because they wanted to see what happens to the human body when you're putting it under this extreme load at this extreme altitude. So they were doing tests on us and blood tests and keeping an eye on us as well and giving us lectures on pulmonary edema and cerebral edema and how you can die this way and that way and it was really scary. I was like pretty, you know terrified by this point. And everything in the build up had gone wrong, and I was sensitized to altitude, I was not increasing my blood cell count. I was going backwards. I'd had anemia, severe anemia going on and I was really not in a great shape. And it got to the point where I'm like I really should pull out of this race, but I've just flown all the way with my crew with my phone crew, to India, from New Zealand. And so I'm like, Well, I've come all this way I might as well give it everything I've got right. And so once you decide that you're going to go for it, whatever the challenges that you're taking on you don't need to know about the negatives are but you don't need to know all the fear mongering things. You just need to know that okay, I'm going for it. What am I going to do to plan to prepare to be the best that I can be and then cut out everything else that surrounds you so so I said to my crew, I want you to protect me from everyone protect me from the doctors protect me from the other runners from the military. Keep everyone out of my my face so that I can actually just focus on being positive for the last couple of days before this race goes because I was pretty terrified at this point. And that's what they did was they we planned and we prepped and we they talked me off the cliff for 100 times because I didn't want it I was terrified to be honest. And I was like, Okay, I'm gonna go I'm gonna go and then you wake up on that day of the race and it's 4am in the morning and the alarm goes and you wake up and you're lying on No, you know, it's that day where you got to go and run 222 ks across the Himalayas, and you're like, oh my gosh, how am I gonna get through this? And then when I'm putting on my start gear, I'm putting on my running clothes and my start number and when I put my start number on that's a ritual for me. It's like putting on my armor. That's like I'm becoming something that I'm not in my everyday life. And I'm trying to pump myself up, you know, so that I'm full of testosterone by the time I'm standing on that start line and I'm doing my power poses and I'm doing that yeah, I've got this you know, I get my game face on. And I get to the stat line at 6am and we know my crew are like, you know, we've got this and I'm absolutely terrified. And all I want to do is run home to mommy and hide under the sheets, really. But I've got to go you know, so I'm off and I let everybody go. Everyone's racing out and I'm like, I'm gonna take it real conservative. I'm gonna go up really nice and slowly and we're going to my My guys are planning it. I'll just hold that for a second bow. And we'll

Speaker 1  47:49
we'll just go out slowly up this up this pass and I get up the first pass i i walk in at the top. You're not running because you can't run at that altitude and then I'm going down the other side and I'm going right now I'm going downhill after a few hours I should be able to run now. So start running and then I ended up having an asthma attack. The dogs have to give me some asthma medication. They took me off the course for half an hour, put me back out on the road and now I'm going back down and then into the town of lay and once we get down to the 3600 meter level and it's like the middle of a night now we're trying to get through this Indian town with chaos traffic and my crew are trying to keep me alive because I'm completely out of it by this time. And then we're going through another 24 hours of racing we go past the Dalai Lama's house that was really cool. And then in through the night and then in the next day, and then the next day right then I know that the second pass is gonna be the one that makes or breaks me. And that's my big Nemesis is coming at me because you've got to go up to altitude a second time and your body's already been out there for 3040 plus hours. And you're going to be in dire straits. I'm coming in the next morning to this valley before we go up this pass and it's real extreme heat. So down in the valleys it was like 40 Odd degrees up on the mountains it could be minus degrees and snowing but down there it was 40 degrees and I get heatstroke pass out. My crew have to carry me to the Divan pour me out after half an hour stick me back out on the road and now I'm completely out of it. I'm like walk down to a complete slow walk and I'm facing down the barrel of 35 kilometers up a mountain up a huge great pass. And I'm like in my heart. I'm thinking there's no way I'm gonna get back up there. There's no way every step that you go higher, there's less oxygen and you're already struggling to breathe down here, let alone up there. And if anyone's been to altitude, it's like breathing through a straw. You just cannot get the oxygen so your heart is just pumping and you just going even at a walking speed and I'm walking really slowly now. And as a battle raging in my head, I just want to sit down and stop. I just want to I'm in pain. I'm exhausted. I'm sleep deprived. I just don't want to carry on. And then I'm like I've got it. I owe it to my crew to just keep going until I can go no more. And so I just promised myself to keep taking one step one step no matter how slow no matter how tough kings get until I can no longer take another step and I do this and I get higher and higher and higher and then it gets colder and colder. And then I started to get hypothermia and my guys are putting layer upon layer of clothing. My team were just pulling out all the stops to keep me moving. And then we'd have convoys of trucks coming through with 3040 trucks coming past at once. And they were spewing out all this unfiltered diesel into this really Sun atmosphere. And I got a mouth on a diesel at one point I just really choked and I couldn't get any oxygen and and had a bit of a panic attack and then the guys had to calm me down again and then put me out on the road. And then I'm down to like 100 200 meters at a time before I have to stop and rest. And then a snow storm comes in and I kid you not like we're now in the Himalayas in the middle of a snowstorm. I've been out there for 40 Something hours and we're three quarters of the way up this path and I'm hanging on for dear life 100 meters at a time before I have to stop and then catch my breath and then go another and I'm trying to calculate how far is it to the top of this pass. And I'm calculating, calculating and I think it's only like two kilometers to the top. And I say to one of my guys please go and calculate it properly. Tell me how far is it because I'm hanging on for dear life here and they come back and they say the least now it's not two K's it's six kilometers and that absolutely broke me. I could not comprehend another two hours of the slow going and I collapsed in the snow in the snowstorm on the middle of this mountain. I just bawled my eyes out. And I just said that's it. I'm done. I've broken it. I can't go anymore and my crew they came around and they huddled around me. And they told me that I was amazing. And I was just just a given everything and they were so proud of me and they gave me permission to fail. And then there was one guy on my crew and he came and sat down and he grabbed me by the shoulders and he shook me and he said no bloody way you're gonna fail now get your ass up off the ground and take another step and I'm going to stay at here with you. And I'm going to get you up to the top of this pass. You're not going to fail this close to the top. Not after 18 months of training. Not after me being in their car for 45 plus hours. You are going to move and I was so shocked that he wasn't just hugging me and telling me it was okay that I got up and I walked and I walked again and these another one of the guys came out and he said and I'll stay with you and these two walked and talked me up to the top and sometimes we all need people to get us over that pass right there to come along and pick us up and say mate, I've got you Come on, we can do this. You're not going to fail and that's what these two diet guys did for me. And they got me up to the top of this past called tangling law and I got to the top and I knew that I was gonna make it I had 33 kilometers still to go but it was all downhill and to cut a very long story short, I did it in 53 hours and five minutes. But I was the second woman home and I was beaten by a 55 year old grandmother from England who also had asthma. Age is no barrier your six is no barrier your ethnicity is no barrier nothing is a barrier when you really, really, really want something and you're prepared to fight for it. Bill could you play number two, this is a little snippet out of a doc of the documentary. If anyone wants to watch the full documentary I can share that after and let's just hope that this plays for you. It's only one minute so if it doesn't, but just to show you that I'm not telling fibs This is the Himalayas say I'm gonna go yep

Unknown Speaker  53:55
this was brutal. Toughest face that I've done.

Speaker 8  54:01
It's a 2022 kilometer run it has to be done within six years crossing the twice multiple mountain passes average altitude or something like 13 14,000 feet, the oxygen content can go as low as 30% Less oxygen into your brain. That's a tough one. Because you need that oxygen to stay alive.

Speaker 4  54:18
I knew I was putting myself out there in this race but I didn't quite know how much

Speaker 9  54:26
respect to heat. I didn't speak the cold rain or snow.

Speaker 7  54:29
We will continue to finish. That's the challenge time isn't the issue. It's about finishing. This is an adventure I couldn't believe that

Unknown Speaker  54:36
this is someone else.

Unknown Speaker  54:46
Everything that ultramarathon shouldn't be I think

Unknown Speaker  54:49
it's just incredible.

Speaker 1  54:53
Yeah, so if anyone wants to watch a Docker I can see that music obviously didn't play very well but you get the idea but of the just that was running in the Himalayas. Now, I'm gonna flip things now and stop talking about running because we've had enough about running you know, here to learn about running. But I want to talk to you about my mom's story. And what I've learned from the running really helped me in this in this situation. And this is a really empowering and powerful story. So my mum Isabelle had a massive aneurysm and a stroke nine years ago. And you know, we got that phone call that we all dread wish she had collapsed on the floor at home and the ambulance driver thought that she was having a neurological event. Unfortunately the doctor in the IDI decided she was having a migraine and just left her with some painkillers and we were left waiting for hours upon hours in the in the IDI here and after four hours and my mum was an extreme pain of like they say it's one of the worst pains that you can ever experience when you have a bleed in the brain. And your brain has been squashed. But they thought it was migraine and they just left it there for four hours and I was getting desperate because I knew I didn't know anything I had no medical background. I didn't know what to ask for. I didn't know what to do. But I rang up a friend of mine who was a paramedic who proved for me on different races and I said can you get up here you know, Mum, and she's in deep trouble and I don't know what to ask for. And so she came up and she took one look at her and she's having an aneurysm or a stroke or a neurological event and we need a CT scan. So she went to the doctor and she said get it and she knew and she said get a get a CT Scan Now I know this lady she's not photoshopped and she's not just having a migraines and so he finally relented after it was now six hours and we finally got the CT scan and that sort of made me hyper alert that I had let all that time go without saying something and not you know sticking up for what I I just didn't know I was caught out right I felt like I'd been caught out. And when they when the when the CT came back they said there's blood right throughout the brain. We don't think she's going to survive. And we live in a little regional town and so they said we're gonna have to take her through to the capitol and get to the big hospital and we're gonna have to get an air ambulance but we don't think she's gonna make it and at that time I was like just pleading with God or whoever the universe that if I had a chance I would spend the you know, if I, if I could just have a chance to get it back. I'll do whatever it takes to rehabilitate it. And so I was bargaining away there with God and just saying give us a chance, give me a chance. And so, from that point on I decided I was gonna, you know, study and not be caught out again if I could possibly help it. And I might my dad came up to me and my dad had been married to my mom for 33 years at that point and he was like, we could just start preparing for the funeral. They don't think she's gonna make it. And I did what that freedom for me in the Himalayas, I grabbed him by the shoulders and I said Dad, she's still alive. She's still breathing and I promise you I'll do everything in my power to bring her back. I want you to get down to Wellington get my brother's I'll stay here with her. I'll take her in the in the air ambulance and we'll see you down there and we're in so he was a fireman and you know used to action. So he jumped into action and did that and got down there. And then we went through got through to Wellington but it was another 12 hours waiting for the air ambulance. Unfortunately when you're older you get bumped down the priority list, at least over here. And it took another 12 hours before she was down in Wellington. So a total of 18 hours before she got into surgery. And of course the golden standard was sort of an hour after something like this if you want to have a chance at surviving with any sort of quality of life, but we had an 18 hour wait we got in there they put a stent in and started to drain the blood off. And at that point they said we won't know whether she's going to survive or what's going to happen for the next few weeks as the brain as you guys will know the biochemical cascade of inflammation that starts to come out when you've had such an event. You don't know the implications of it and they're first in that first instance. I didn't understand any of that at that point. But I started to study in the critical care situation. I really couldn't do a heck of a lot except be hyper vigilant. And we set up a 24 hour vigil on their bedside much to the doctors discussed because they didn't like us having us in there but we really fought to stay in there. On day three, she dropped into a full coma and they took her then into the ICU and I realized how much more they could do and ICU than they were doing on the ward. And again that sort of made me realize that I hadn't known to push for that to ask for that. She in the they did a coiling operation where they went in and they put a coil in there and they blocked off the aneurysm for bleeding anymore and she survived that but they had a stroke during the operation. And so she was now paralyzed on the right side and she was in and out of coma for the next three weeks and she was losing more and more of her brain as this biochemical cascade of inflammatory cytokines and stuff started to wreak havoc in her brain over that period of time. After three weeks, she did stabilize and they she survived and they said to us Look she's gonna she's going to survive but there's massive, massive brain damage and she will never ever have any quality of life again. And we'll take her through to New Plymouth for that point. They took her back to our original town and they you know, started to do rehab which was very little and in that time I started to see in my mum some of the things that I'd seen with her hypoxia, the hypoxic brain concussion that I'd had. I was seeing a proliferation of bacteria. And I was noticing that when she was in Wellington and she was on oxygen she was doing slightly better. I mean she was terrible, but she was doing slightly better than she was doing a new plumber. She was going backwards. So I started to think about oxygen and I started to research and came across sleep apnea as a possibility. So I said I want to sleep apnea assessment. And the doctor said No, why should we do a sleep apnea assessment? No point there's, that's that's not a thing here. And I said well, my research has shown that when you've had an aneurysm or a stroke that sometimes can be, you know, happen that you need a CPAP machine because you'd have sleep apnea after that, and they wouldn't let me do it. So I smuggled a consultant into the hospital one night who happened to be a friend of ours who was a sleep consultant and he came in and he did a sleep apnea assessment, and he came back with severe sleep apnea and she was down at 70% at night with oxygen stats and she was changed state breathing and she was stopping breathing hundreds of times a night. So that was my very first one because then we got a CPAP machine onto her and then we she started to get a little bit of oxygen, right. So this was a major, major one if we hadn't found that we wouldn't have you know, she probably wouldn't have survived for too many more months after that. And then I went Okay, what else can oxygen do? And so I was researching and I came across a Dr. Paul harch in America who's a hyperbaric oxygen specialist had talked about brain rehabilitation and for brain injuries. And I'd watched some incredible videos that he'd put up and I was like, I've got to get her

Speaker 1  1:02:17
hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Now she was still in the hospital at this point, and I was still learning and I still didn't know very much and I was bringing in all her food. I changed her diet. I'd learned about the keto diet, I was starting to implement some of those things that I couldn't within the hospital, and then it came time for them to say right we need to put her into an institution she's 24/7 to person around the clock here. There's no way that your family is ever going to cope with her and I wanted her at home because I believe that when the person's in their own home environment, with their loving family and the things around them, that they will have a chance at rehabilitation and they said well that she doesn't even know who she is what she is why would you not put her in a home that's going to, you know, stress all your resources and I was just like, This is my mother. I'm going to take her home and so I had a hell of a battle in the hospital to get the resources to take her home because it means they she stayed in the budget rather than going into an other institutions budget. So they didn't want that. So I had to really fight to get her home and to get the resources and they I remember the social worker saying to me, you'll be back here begging for my help in two weeks because there's no way in hell you're going to cope with her at home. And I came in and I threw my books at him and said this is who I am. And I'm not going to be needing your help and I will get her back. And yeah, I was right. And he was wrong. I got home and the first day I got to home, I'd found a hyperbaric chamber at a commercial dive company of all places in our town. And this was the only thing we didn't have any clinics and so I went to these people on I begged them to use the chamber and I showed them my research and my situation and they said yep, you sign a legal waiver and we'll let you do that and credible people. They day I got her out of the hospital. I didn't even go home. I just went straight to this factory. We stuck her on a forklift and we stuck her in this giant hyperbaric chamber that looks like an LPG cylinder. And we started to put her through treatment after treatment day in day out and she couldn't move anything. So we had to use a forklift to get around. And after 33 treatments, she started to respond like she didn't just get up and walk but she started to have a couple of words she started to move her right hand which has been fully paralyzed. She started to have a flicker of intelligence and moving her arms and things like this and I'm like, oh my god, this is this is working. This is doing something but it's already been 33 treatments and it was only a minor improvement at this point but it was working in it was all I had. And then I lost access to the chamber. So another obstacle, what do I do now? So I mortgaged the house. I bought a hyperbaric chamber, I installed it on my house and then I had to work out how do I get her in? She's paralyzed and then I had a mild hyperbaric chamber that's very hard to get somebody into. I worked out a way of doing it with support of my big brothers and Dad, and we will put her in day after day. And then I started to develop a program about around her as she started to come back. I say one step ahead of her in my research and I studied functional Functional Neurology and how to reestablish the vestibular system and the keto diet and supplementation and all of these aspects that I had no idea of, but I just put one foot in front of the other and tried to stay ahead of her when we're talking like 1000s of hours of rehabilitation went back into her day in day out and the doctors were like you she's got neural fatigue. You can't do more than a couple of minutes at a time and I said absolutely rubbish. There is another thing that I can do. When her brain tires of this then I will do something else. I will move her limbs for her. I will talk to her I will whatever I was doing at the time, I would find another way. So I had this incredibly detailed protocols that I started to develop. And then I just did it day in day out. Now there's one thing that ultra marathoners know how to do it's how to grind out training and rehab. Because we know how to train for hour upon hour or every day because when you're retraining your brain, they forget they forget they forget they don't know what's happening. So you have to teach them 1000 times a day how to do the same thing that you've just taught them but it's that repetition, that repetition that slowly started to rehabilitate. It took me about 13 months to get her out of the wheelchair and for her to take a very few steps and it took me two and a half years to get her back to full capacity again for driver's license. You don't get your driver's license without your full brain capacity back full power of attorney back over her life and her finances for going to the gym every you know five days a week going out with her girlfriends. And I've written a book about this journey and it's called relentless. I don't know if you guys can see that or see that but that's my mum there on the cover. And it's been an incredible journey. And it was against all prognosis. She was 74 years old at the time when this happened. And within two years we had her back you know like she didn't get back to absolute 100% and her reserve capacity. She would go offline if she got an infection of any sort her brain would be impacted and she would but she had really good quality of life. And then three years ago we were hit with a CNS lymphoma. She had a terminal cancer diagnosis and the doctors. I took her into the IDI she had had a drop face on the right hand side and I thought she was having another stroke I took her out to the IDI emergency and they said there's not wait Did they did a CT scan. They couldn't see anything. They said oh no, she's fine. And they sent me home again. Two days later, I went back with their blood pressure through the roof and her her slurring of his speech and she was dribbling and she was you know, doing all those sorts of things. And I took it back in and they sent me home again. And I knew that there was something massively wrong and we'd already had all of these misadventures in the beginning so I was on hyper alert and I was trying to get an MRI because a CT scan doesn't show everything. It took me three weeks of fighting and battling to get a sitter to get an MRI and I managed to finally get an MRI and then it came back that she had tumors. One big massive grapefruit sized tumor on the left hand side of the brain and then smaller tumors at the front. And then they went oh shoot here. She's got you know, tumors. And so then I chased the country's best neurosurgeon around until I got him on the phone. And I said, this is my situation, would you operate? And he said, Yep, get it down here on Tuesday. So the following Tuesday, we were down on Wellington again. He was a surgeon and it operated on here initially and he operated took the tumor out. Unfortunately, they came back with this aggressive CNS lymphoma. And then they said to us, there's nothing we can do. She's now 80 years old, and the chemo that we would do for a younger person would kill her. And there's nothing we could do. And so I went back to my network which is now pretty large, thankfully. And I started to study the metabolic approach to cancer. And I did advanced genetic testing IGCC testing, I found out which chemo she would respond to which immunotherapies she would respond to which supplements you respond to. I started to put a protocol together I put 15 doctors on her team and we threw the bus out at like literally, we sold a house. We used the money to finance all of this and I started to just throw everything I possibly could because they said you've got weeks to live. I mean, we doubled down on hyperbaric we did intravenous vitamin C we did peptides. We did a full strict keto diet. I put together a protocol of 28 different supplements. And it took us 12 weeks to get rid of the tumors on the MRI. And we're now three years into that story, and I've released a book called what your oncologist isn't telling you and it's the interview series. With 21 of the world's top people in the metabolic approach to cancer. And I now work with people in the cancer realm helping them navigate through traditional and metabolic approaches and mums free of cancer Touchwood currently, and we never want to say you're cured because as you guys will know cancers are beasts that can has many different hints and can come back to bite us in the ass but currently, she's doing very, very well, except that last year, she also had three gastrointestinal bleeding sessions where she nearly died three times with massive gastrointestinal bleeding. For the third time she had 16 units pumped into her blood to keep her alive at one point where they were going to operate and take her whole stomach out. And luckily, they had misread the blood tests. So I had decided to hold off even though the blood tests had come back with a hemoglobin of I think it was 49 and they were about to go in and operate. And we were trying to make this life and death decision and it turned out that the blood tests had been falsely measured. And she managed to survive that then we had another E. coli infection in December, and then she broke her hip and February of this year. All of those things could have knocked her off and nearly very nearly did knock her off. But we're now six months into rehabilitation from a hip she's now walking independently again she's now back at the gym. She's out today with my brothers, and she's enjoying life again. So, that's my mom's story. Bill, can you play video number three, please meet my mum Isabelle. This might not play with the music but.

Speaker 4  1:13:22
Before I go money guys. I know. That's awesome. Keep running. Keep running. Keep those arms marching and running. Good job. Good job. So glad they never gave up on me and I've got my life back.

Speaker 1  1:13:37
It's my mom's is about. So that concludes my presentation. Thank you so much for your time and attention. I really appreciate it. What I'm hoping that you guys, you know, take away from this is I did have some slides there from hyperbaric which we can go over as well. But I think probably a q&a session at this point would probably be more beneficial if you're interested, but is really never giving up in not my mum has been written off so many times. My mum has had so many doctors telling her she's going to die. She's not dead, and she's still living life and she still wants to be here. And it's really important to me to bring across a message that when people are older, that we don't write them off to really you know that we give them the chance to come back and that we don't take away all hope. I know that we're all there to give false hope. But we need to also empower especially families that are willing to fight for their loved ones and that's it's part of the work I do now is really being an advocate for people in those sorts of situations and trying to help them navigate this because you know there are there are some issues with our medical system as you guys will know that you know we need to make some changes we need to we need to cherish life. And yeah, there will come a point when we're all going to die but I could if I hadn't fought so hard if my family hadn't fought so hard and if Mum hadn't wanted to fight so hard, we wouldn't be still here fighting but sometimes you can beat the odds. So thank you so much for your time and attention today. And I really hope that you've got some questions for me, though. Becca over to you.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:23
Unbelievable. I mean, just just, you know, just from the marathon to taking care of mom. You're an incredible person. I mean, I don't know what else to say. There's just you know, there are those that that are that dedicated. And you're attributing your marathon training to being able to carry that over to taking care of your mother set.

Speaker 1  1:15:53
A lot about Yeah, I think that that training certainly helped. Yeah, you know, but we can all learn, you know, like, you know, we've all had to overcome obstacles. It doesn't have to be running in that sense. It's just that taking those hard moments in life and turning them into positives in holding a vision I think, you know, when my mum had that original aneurysm, I had a vision of writing a book, I had a vision of her inspiring and empowering other people. And she has she's gone on to inspire Spire, hundreds of 1000s of people. She's been on documentaries and movies and she's got the book and you know, like she's a she's a shining light to many other people, because of her resilience and her determination to keep going. And, you know, I think that that's, that's, that's a powerful message. And yeah, I think in my case, yeah, having that background really helped me and you know, I'll be honest with you, it's still a 24/7 thing. You know, I'm nine years old, and I've been looking after mom for nine years. My whole life is impacted. You know, I can't travel I can't come and see you guys in the states which I'd love to, you know, but I cannot leave her alone for any period of time. There are sacrifices to be made, but you do that for your loved ones. And you do it gladly, you know, when you've had good parents, and my parents were amazing. So you know, just dedicated to her.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:17
Yes. Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:19
you don't take no for an answer. Do you?

Unknown Speaker  1:17:24
Know definitely don't like to bite to the

Bill Clearfield  1:17:31
listening to you and I just I just don't even know what to say. I mean, we are not worthy here. Well, maybe John is but the rest of us.

Speaker 5  1:17:42
If I may speak, when you were talking about the resistance you've gotten sometimes it feels like ugliness and darkness that you come up against. When you do the right thing. Try the right thing and for that you're punished about half the people on this call. Especially bill and a few others that I won't name have gone to hell and back and their only crime The only problem is they were doing exactly what you're doing. Not just trying to help one person but trying to help 100 are in bills case 1000. And the resistance we've had to that almost destroyed us. But as you can see, this organization has survived and we're trying to do more and more exactly the same thing you're doing not I don't even see a difference. Are you in New Zealand now?

Speaker 1  1:18:38
Yes, I am. And this is why I was attracted to your group. And why or why I was attracted to bill because he stands up for what's the truth and and he puts his patients ahead of his own needs. And I saw that in the group when I listened to your other lectures mazing people that you've had and I don't feel worthy to be on here next to all the incredible doctors and scientists that you know, like I didn't even go to university for what I've got as a bachelor's you know, but it's you

Speaker 5  1:19:12
grade people. You're at the top and I hope you will stay with us forever. And yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:19:20
we like to say you haven't been tainted by the medical school mentality.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:24
Yeah, exactly.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:28
apologize for not being a doctor sometimes we should apologize for being dot precisely.

Speaker 5  1:19:34
And when we're putting together an international research committee, and all have that item to support our group as an ethical Medical Group, and several of us, one of us Dr. Melvin Nereo. He's one of our top notch guys like Bill, as a matter of fact, they work in the same office and share with one another. So we're going to put an international group of research together where we can simply tell the truth that's all we want to do tell the truth. Exactly. And be part of this international team.

Speaker 2  1:20:13
We definitely want to chime in. Tony Tony Robbins was at Twentynine Palms, the desert he was speaking to the colonel. And the colonel asked him why my Marines drop off. Why do they lose their discipline? And Tony didn't know how to answer. And he came back a couple days later, and he said because you lost your team. They lost their team. Yeah. It's all about the team, even the Navy SEALs. It's all about the team. Your team gets you I took four bags of IVs and Korea ones because I was just I was so just, you know, passing out and the team got me to comprehend that I needed IVs. And so how important do you think, God, the source was to you in all these dark moments that we all know that you had Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:21:17
and then continue to him? Yeah, I I'm not religious in the normal sense of you know, like going to church but I believe there is something after this. I have a deep connection. I believe. I didn't even go into the story of my dear but I lost my dad four years ago, and that was another horrific situation. And maybe that's a story for another day. The battle that I had the you just briefly had aortic aneurysm and had sepsis developed after that he survived the operation but and I was fighting to get intravenous vitamin C because I was aware of Dr. Paul Merricks work and in sepsis and vitamin C, and I just came up against a brick wall and the ethics committee in the ICU just would not let me use intravenous vitamin C, and he was dying, and they had no other options, and I fought for 16 days against the Ethics Committee to try vitamin C, you know, which may or may not have saved his life, but I, you know, it could well have and I just came up against a brick wall and I fought for 16 days I found a legal loophole where my GP was able to come in, but by then he had multiple organ failure, and he was at death's doorstep. And in spider that the very first vitamin C started to turn the ship around, but then they stopped me doing the second they stopped me doing the third and I had to fight because the protocol was sucks hourly. And I could only get it into him every 18 hours. And then you know, eventually it got to the point where it was just too late and they would only do half of the doses that I was asking for et cetera, et cetera. It's another whole hours story in itself but they're dead broke me they're broke me because I lost that time. I you know, I've so far so far have managed to keep my mum with me and keep her happy and joyful, instilling and quality of life. I lost my dad and my dad was a very precious amazing person, and I feel like he was robbed and we were robbed. And so this why fight this why fight any way I can. And when I go into our local hospital, it's like an alternate universe. It's like, it's like back in the 1950s. And it's a communist regime. It's not they're not up on the latest. And I'm treated like an idiot because I'm not a doctor. And what would you know? And it's, it's sad, it's sad, and I gravitate towards people like yourselves, and I'm actually starting a group which I'd love to maybe join our two groups somehow. Together. I'm literally starting it next month. We've got our first meeting of of doctors and allied health professionals that I'm trying to get together so we can educate on the latest stuff and talk about in an open forum, these types of issues without being shut down. You know, because this is very important work. So I'm tentatively putting together a group at the moment and any support or encouragement if you want to come and join us on those calls, because I'm finding my feet and I'm feeling a little bit not really being there. Again, you know, there's some some issues that I've got, perhaps but you know, but I want to educate our doctors and our people down here about what's going on and give them a place to talk and have a have that that network, that teamwork that you spoke off to,

Unknown Speaker  1:24:51
you know, what's what's the name of the group?

Speaker 1  1:24:55
It's going to be the one of I call it the longevity and health optimization focus group. So yeah, something to the beat. So I'll let you know we have our first meeting. And it's a mix of traditional doctors, but I'm hoping to sort of open their minds a little bit to you know, so yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:19
work with us and we can work with you were

Bill Clearfield  1:25:22
excellent. Let us in on the we can help the planet even.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:29
That'd be fabulous.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:32
Let's see a road trip in the future. She can't come.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:37
Come and hang out at my place.

Bill Clearfield  1:25:40
About halfway to Mongolia right. And I don't think I told you earlier, so.

Speaker 1  1:25:45
Oh, wow. Yeah, well, no, we are so yeah, we're right down the other end of the planet. But hey, I would love you guys to come down here. I live in a lovely little beach town and we can you can go surfing and and on your days off and

Bill Clearfield  1:25:59
no make but just do some running too, right? Yeah. Not too long. Like

Speaker 1  1:26:06
I found out it wasn't that healthy now that I know what I know. I wouldn't do it again. I didn't know I was ignorant.

Speaker 9  1:26:15
Yeah, so it's it's a great story that you just said story of resilience and success. So I wanted to share with you here so I'm here in the Philippines now. And you mentioned about your father receiving treatments and you're trying to push for vitamin C. The wonderful thing that I figured out here in the Philippines was I found practitioners who actually can give these alternative therapies in the hospitals. Really, they are Yeah, they are giving Well, here's the thing, they're doing this incognito like under the sheets, but I was talking to these doctors here because I was selling thing about, hey, we can actually have a study that is related. To these integrative treatments being given to hospital settings, because right now our current therapies are only being given as outpatient. And now we're talking I'm actually spoke to Paige doctors who gave chelation therapy in the hospital setting high dose vitamin C and it's just that I have to nitpick them out, just because of course they're not being out there because of them getting in trouble for such things. But existence is happening here and just getting them all together. And I think some of them are in this call too. I think when John is talking about a research, here's the research for you. And we're talking about sick sick patients receiving integrative therapies. So just to see it's to show you that there's a light ahead of that tunnel here in relation to what you try to do with your I guess your Dad, I'm sorry to hear about that as well.

Speaker 1  1:27:54
Yeah, like intravenous vitamin C. I'm a big fan of it. I've used it for mum and her rehabilitation you know from the aneurysm the stroke just for immune support. I've used it in the cancer as an adjunct therapy as well. In in sepsis the though I don't know if you know the studies and I can send them over with Dr. Paul Merrick and I've had a number of them the vitamin C researchers on my podcast, but it's super powerful like that alone. And then there are other there are many other things as you said, like collation and other things that we can be doing in the setting of the hospital. But in one of my dreams is to get the right to try law, which you have in some states in America. So at the end of life, if the doctors have run out of options that you have the right to try it use you sign a legal waiver, and you know, abscond them from any wrongdoing. And then you can do something like intravenous vitamin C, you know, like, how powerful and I get rung up, you know, and emailed from other families in the same situation. As I was in I've helped you know, try to fight their battles and we've lost every time we just come up against it. We just doesn't matter if we come up with the clinical studies and clinical research. They don't care. It's a legal legal battle, so we need to change the law. So that you know, and it feels like a ginormous task it feels but in the Philippines are probably far more progressive than what we are here in New Zealand. We are really it's just like, you know, back in the 1950s here

Speaker 9  1:29:29
like why would you curious about your your mom, you said you you I'm a big user of our GCC in terms of their testing for for cancer.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:37
Um, you

Speaker 9  1:29:38
mentioned that you use or GCC results for your mom's protocol. I was just wondering, because every time we show our GCC to our oncologists, conventional oncologist here, they scratch your head, they laugh at you even kicked out of your service. How do you use our GCC for your mom's protocol?

Speaker 1  1:29:58
So I went ahead to go to private so you know, because I went up to our local Oncology at the hospital when they just said she's dead. There's nothing you can do, and they wouldn't give us anything. So then I heard about our GCC and got the test done. And then I went private, so I had to drive all the way to the other side of the country, and I took my sick mom with me. And I went into an office of an oncologist there and what I found is that private oncology when you paying for it, they're more open to and they know this oncologist had never seen an IGCC before, but he was open and he said, that makes a whole lot of sense. If you want to get because I was after temozolomide, and I was after rituximab, those were the two that it showed the sensitivities for I already had the supplements in the mix, so I was already doing that. But I was after those two particular and so he managed to convince the oncology team back here in my hometown, to give us the right I'd pay privately for it, but to actually prescribe it for us so that we could get it and so it was a roundabout way but I'm very persistent. You know, I am very in their face and don't say no, don't take no very easily. So, but anybody else would struggle, right like, well, I struggled but I find a way. But I was desperate. Because I was at that point. You've got nothing. You've got nothing. Else, you know, so it was Yeah.

Speaker 9  1:31:33
I managed to get a bound on an ecologist. I mean, you probably paid an arm or leg for that therapy is us. We do it here as low dose therapy or IPT. So that's how we

Speaker 1  1:31:45
couldn't get I couldn't get that either. So they hear it's full dose or no dose. You know, they don't do insulins potentially aided therapies here like they they're just so behind on everything. So I had to take the full the full doses for her, which of course not the crap out of here, but she survived that and at that point, we had weeks so I just went both sides of the, you know, metabolic end and chemo and diet and everything else and so far so far. I never want to say because so I know that you know, in any moment it could rear its head but i i What I do now I have this wonderful doctor actually, I'd love to introduce you guys to her. Maybe you can get her on. Her name's Dr. Elizabeth youth and she's at the boulder longevity Institute in Colorado. I don't know if any of you guys know but she's wonderful. She's a mums top doctor if you like she's and if she says jump I asked her Hi, basically. And she's been able to really help me. And we're and she's very much on our side of the way of thinking. Dr. Elizabeth

Speaker 9  1:32:57
of yours. I know her so we we met each other in in seeds, the seeds of peptides conferences. So she's a very highly credible doctor who uses a lot of off label drugs and also peptide therapies, but yeah, Top Real top notch really intelligent doctor. So she's been on good hands with her.

Speaker 1  1:33:22
She's a she's been my mentor and friend and she's actually the scientific adviser for my biotech company as well. But she she's she's the bomb like she really is. given me so much guidance you know, and with mum, and when, when when she's creative, too, because I can't get peptides that easily and we find ways and we're struggling at the moment now that the FDA has come down I can't get peptides out of the because I was getting them from limitless you know, thanks to Jay Campbell and you know his work I was getting the metal limitless but now limitless has stopped the crypto payments and that was our only option to pay. So I'm still trying to find a way if anybody knows any other good reputable places where I can get peptides and get them sent down because I'm struggling to get those at the moment. And things like thymosin Alpha One were really really key for her because their immune system so short. You know at the moment I can't get them. So if anyone's

Speaker 9  1:34:23
aware of where you know where to get it here in the Philippines, everything that is really us. Everything's open here so they're having a female's insurance okay with

Unknown Speaker  1:34:36
me, okay.

Speaker 1  1:34:38
Okay. Would you be able to help me out if we take this offline and maybe connect and

Speaker 9  1:34:42
I'm using peptides so I see patients here in the Philippines and I'm prescribing them here like freely? I mean, the ones that I can't use, they're in the States. Oh, so Okay, here they have an open. I mean, I'd hope as long as they can last. And I hope the government doesn't do it the same as what they did to us there in the US. But again, it's a field day here so far. That's my phone was in alpha one. It's on the shelves here.

Speaker 1  1:35:11
Okay, so maybe we can connect after and I can get a consult with you. A proper consult with you for mom and then maybe we can work work away to exercise Yeah, I need to find a way

Speaker 2  1:35:25
I think it has to be personal I think you'd have to be personal and cumbersome person. Right. Person to person I think would be the best way to Mel it rather than I mean, I don't know

Speaker 9  1:35:40
about the mailing part I don't know how in New Zealand I guess checks there.

Speaker 1  1:35:44
I have no trouble when it when it comes here. I can usually get it in. It's it's just getting them to ship them. I can't get limitless to actually ship them because We can't pay for them on there. At the moment at least we can't pay on the credit card system. Like they don't. It's just a technical thing.

Speaker 9  1:36:04
Dr. Bill will help you he's good friends of Ajay.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:10
We have we have a few ways to get around that so we'll

Speaker 1  1:36:13
work on that one because I need to get mom a few things off but Melbourne will connect afterwards anyway because I'd love to. Yeah, you see

Bill Clearfield  1:36:26
Melbourne or Lisa talk about the RGC test. Some of us aren't aren't might not be familiar with it. Yeah, Melbourne gopher.

Speaker 9  1:36:35
Oh, you want to know what that is? Yeah, I mean, I know the origin. Yeah, the rtcc test is a genetic test for cancer patients. And it actually analyzes number one, the circulating tumor cell count or the cancer cells that are swimming in your blood, which is the more significant finding in cancer because that's the one that's responsible for metastatic spread. And even though we see a solid tumor on the breast, that's really not your enemy. The real enemy is the one that's swimming around trying to reach the brain deliver and all the other organs so another thing that is provided by the test is the specific chemo drugs that will be good for the specific cancer of your patient. So everything is basically individualized and they actually put those medicines on your blood sample that contains your cancer cells and as Lisa mentioned, also, it provides specific natural therapies that will be effective for your cancer. So this section of the test actually helps patients budget their money in relation to you know, cancer patients. They come in our doors with basketfuls of supplements, thinking that everything on the shelf would help their cancer but if you think about it, it's this these are 1000s of dollars wasted if you don't know what you're trying to hit. So our GCC brings that to the table meaning it will actually show you what specific supplements will work best for for the cancer. And also hormonal therapies also monoclonal antibody therapies, and it's still expanding as we speak. And right now we can you can even request for a substance that you want to be tested for your cancer, but you need to send that sample along with your blood. And that's why I think it's going to be getting bigger in the future. But right now, this is the bet one of the best things that we have used in cancer and one of the better ones right now maybe. Lisa I don't know if you're you still have use for this is S O T. Therapy. So it's, they call it the cancer vaccine but I don't want to use that term. But there it runs after the messenger RNA of the cancer cell and it stops it's on its tracks meaning stops proliferation spread and even promotes apoptosis or breakdown of that cancer cell. So it's administered through intravenous, and it's not like going through IPT. And right now it's producing 77% Good response to any type of cancer according their initial studies, and that's a preliminary study, preliminary study of our GCC and as we using our cancer center as well where you were getting the same results. So something to look forward in the horizon for cancer therapy, and even a more practical way because as you said, you're gonna pay an arm or a leg for chemotherapy, but this one, this is definitely cheaper and more affordable for patients. So something to look forward for in relation to this company.

Speaker 1  1:39:37
Okay, I need to maybe Yeah, I knew you need to come on my show. Anyway. We will talk about all these others to like main track. Have you come across main trick and Grail? What's your take on those?

Speaker 9  1:39:52
Grill? Yes. I've used grill. So grill is using methylation in relation to the finding of the it's, it's a yes or no result. And they find not all cancers but the majority of cancer especially hard to find was a gastric cancer also in pancreatic and liver, which is just more of a yes or no if you have this cancer or not. And it's more of an on the spot real time what's going on with your system. It's not comparable to our GCC that offers you specific therapies. It's really just somebody who wants to know if they have cancer or not, but it doesn't trump you not doing your preventative testing in relation to your colonoscopy is mammograms but they always have that disclaimer that it's not going to be an end all to tell you if you have the real cancer right now and just shrug off the preventative measures that people do. So but it's it's helpful. I've used it on patients before. It's just a little pricier here in states when you do that and

Speaker 1  1:40:46
the main track Have you come across that one as well. main trick is another to

Speaker 9  1:40:50
know yeah, I've only use a lot of Grail and in our GCC testing, but hopefully that yeah, it comes into part of the options as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:58
Yeah, so I've heard that one's even better than our GCC.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:03
It sounds like that our GCC tests you could use for just about anybody, not just cancers, right? If you're telling me it's telling

Speaker 9  1:41:09
Yes. So they That's right. They even they created those little vaccines that I tell you about. For Epstein Barr Virus Lyme disease, even the chronic infections CMVs EBVs. So they're expanding that's why the this technology of SOC or the messenger RNA. antisense, as they call it, is starting to get through a lot of these chronic illnesses that's very hard to treat. And we have a section in our cancer center, which is actually on Dr. Fox and that they're trying to use this on line patients. And that's how we're trying to see how this does. So t is going to be encompassing so many different diseases and it will help so many people in the end Wow, in a cheap way to in a cheaper way.

Speaker 1  1:42:06
Look into that one because I'm working with a lot of cancer patients. I'm always looking for doctors and you know, things and tests and things to help. So I just connect people and connect the dots and help them work out the day to day stuff, but release

Speaker 9  1:42:20
it just a segue. So I tried to be athletic, probably not as athletic as you. I don't think my simple vitamin C and vitamin D would be enough for your marathons and your extremes or its experience. So what are your tips for us for supplementation? Peptide enhancement, I don't know what your trick of the trade is. What can you share to us about that? For

Speaker 1  1:42:45
in athletic scenes, what would what would I recommend are you meaning Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:42:52
how much potassium magnesium that type of stuff. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:42:55
Yeah, we always because I'm retired now right? From doing the long stuff and I do a lot of muscle building stuff now because I know you know muscles are the currency of longevity and not running through 100 keys at a time is not going to be conducive to health at all. So I've learned my lessons there and I've done a lot of damage to myself because I did a lot of things that I didn't know better and rhabdomyolysis and things like that were a regular thing on my life. So I'm trying to undo a lot of the damages. I think, you know, from a, it's really important that you have good electrolytes like it like I had a techni seizure at one point from a potassium that was so so low. I think potassium is an easy one for a lot of people are dealing with a potassium deficiency even if it's not no vert deficiency, and I'd like to see electrolyte drinks with higher levels of potassium in them. As far as the oxidants the old you know, like, should you have antioxidants if you're doing sport and I think it really depends on how much for you when you know overwhelming your system like I did, then you need a hell of a lot of antioxidant support. And then there's also the genetic component of it. I have a genetic basis where I need I have very poor detox, you know, GST genes and things like that. So I need a lot of so what I like to do when I'm working with people to do genetic testing, find out what how to optimize for their particular genes and then work there, what time of the day they should be training, what type of exercise they should be doing. We can tell that from genetics now. So like, for me when I did my genetic testing and there's a couple of different programs that are used, and I can talk to them if you want but doing the super long distance stuff was really not good for my genetics either. And that was one of the other reasons why I stopped doing it. I'm much more of a short sharp high intensity type of person that should be training for about three quarters of an hour per day, not more than that. So doing massive things like I was doing was causing huge inflammation. And just to give you an example, like my 92 one gene is is very poor, which means the inflammatory. The information on the endothelial lining when I overtrain is just way worse than the average person's and so my family is much more prone to stroke an aneurysm because of that, so being an ultramarathon runner was not a good thing long term for me. So that's one of the reasons I stopped doing that. Right. So there's that nuance, and then I know what time of the day to train like I used to make my husband get up at 6am in the morning and do CrossFit workout and he put on weight and had cortisol problems and you know, wasn't getting any benefit because it was the wrong time of the day. That's when his regulation of his hormones were happening as testosterone was replacing. And so if when we shifted that to later on in the day, and then I stopped doing the CrossFit style of training for him because he should have been doing heavy weights. He can put heavier weights through his body that I can put through mine but he should be having breaks between the sets rather than the back to back because his ATP doesn't replace as quickly as mine. So there's all that sort of nuance that we can tell from genetics now, which was really helpful for the athlete who's wanting to know what is actually suitable. What time of the day should I be doing mine? How intense for how long and you know, all of that sort of nuance to the conversation. And then I like to look at also, you know, the person's blood panels and nutrient panels and things as well, if I'm trying to sort of help guide them. Not that I'm a Exercise Scientist either but you know, that's that's the approach that I come at it from when I'm when I'm looking to build a supplement stick. My basics are the basics that you will do. You know, magnesium was deficient everywhere. Vitamin D, I believe should be a part of d3 Ketu I'm a big fan of spermidine and vitamin C. I like I always have this dilemma with vitamin C and sulforaphane. They sort of don't mix because they sort of work on the same pathways but they're two of my favorite supplements. I just put them apart. But yeah, does it sort of answer your question, Melvin was what any specific that you were looking for?

Speaker 9  1:47:27
No, that's good. I just wanted to of course there's a there's a plethora of some athletes here and to talk to we definitely wants to know like your favorite stack, or just your secret for success. Yeah, you do this I'm sure the mental part is something that we can all reach there. You'll be surprised on how in the states how they get themselves to a higher level of thinking through ketamine. So mushrooms is there's so many things out there using just to get by you. It seems like you're doing this so natural. I mean, I'm gonna put forward a lot of training, years of training, but people need some help in terms of getting through that level level of just that specific mindset that you have. Yeah, I

Speaker 1  1:48:11
didn't have all that knowledge back in the day right when I was actually competing, so I haven't competed for five, six years. But now I use a lot of things here like I'm on, you know, do a lot of mushrooms as in, you know, Reishi in Lion's Mane and things like that. I'm a biohacker. You know, like I've got, I'm trialing and testing things constantly and trialing things out. I am a big fan for athletes or anybody over the age of 40 just basic creatine. And peptides have now only come on my radar in the last couple of years and to be honest, I've been focused more on mum, and I can't afford it for myself and mum. So Mum, mum ones. I would love to try them all out on my own.

Unknown Speaker  1:48:58
myself.

Speaker 2  1:48:59
I forgot to ask you. It sounds like you're I'm guessing keto keto keto for not not full carnivore.

Speaker 1  1:49:09
No, I'm not carnivore and I with my genetics I need quite a lot of meat. Yep, I need quite a lot of meat. I don't do strict keto. Part of its I like food and I should be bit more disciplined than I am but I do eat a ton of vegetables. So vegetables are in my I believe that vegetables are very important for our microbiome and all that sort of thing. So but I lean towards a low carb diet when I'm being good, right? And lots of vegetables and good supplementation and real food, whole food and trying to avoid all the processed crap that comes along and it's pretty hard on organic when I can that sort of my and good fats

Speaker 2  1:50:06
big one What about water Are you are you into structured water fourth phase water by any chance?

Speaker 1  1:50:11
Yeah, yeah. Well, I'd love to I haven't got a machine yet but that's on the that's on the TV last year. I do get good water. I get a you know a special spring water that we have here. But yeah, it's definitely on the to do list. It's you know, it's working through all of these things. I I mean, I'm a big fan of plasma halogens if you guys come across plasma halogens for brains and ketones. Yeah, Dr. Das good. Good to

Speaker 9  1:50:41
know. Yeah. So yeah, we were using that here. He has new types of

Speaker 1  1:50:48
those proton right. Yeah. Yeah. Approach. I'm clear and euro euro Anglia. Yeah. So I've used that in the cancer as well now like he's brought out research around how that helps with cancer. So I've been looking at plasma halogens. The C 15. You had Dr. Stephanie Vin Watson. I just had her on the show as well. I'm using using that now. And that makes sense to me. I haven't been on long enough to say yea or nay. I've got Dr. Michael Lewis coming on the show to hide those fish oils because I'm really interested in anything brain rehabilitation. So Mum has high dose fish oil was plasma halogens, fatty 15 and ketones, red lights here A B and hyperbaric in her brain is absolutely amazing for what that brain has been through. Like she's just incredible. I've seen her brain. So many times go from no idea who I am what I am, who she is, you know, like even when she gets a UTI. She goes completely offline and then come back full capacity again. I mean, why she's got memory issues now. But compared to what she's been through the stuff I'm putting in as working put it that way, you know, because she should have been complete vegetable by now. But what she's she's experienced and she's still if you sit and have a coffee with her, you wouldn't know if she's got any problems. One of the main problems I do have with mum is normotensive hydrocephalus. And is anyone got any ideas for that? Besides surgery because I'm seeing the neurosurgeon. I've been that that's high risk and high, you know? How do you get water out of the brain without operating? Well,

Speaker 2  1:52:41
I can No, no, Lima you gotta you gotta be able to see that. And even Lima a NALEMM a. I'm not sure where they're from. They created a glass of water to their Yeah, okay, France. So you stir your water. It's i It's one of the cheapest ways rather than using a vortex machine or using one of those big machines, you know, three to 6000 $7,000 but I think it's one of the best ways and you could fill it. You could fill it when you're stirring the water. I kid you not you go 30 to 6090 seconds. And I believe it's a fourth stage type water even if it's a little bit. It's better than nothing. And I think it's absolutely for our hydration. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:34
I'll have a look into that one.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:40
I don't know. I don't know if it would be, you know, strong enough but natural progesterone 200 to 400 milligrams a night is actually a natural diuretic and I just wrote a paper on glaucoma and actually that that's that's actually one of the sort of the alternative medicine treatments for glaucoma is because it bumps sort of dehydrates the, the inter ocular Oh, fluid so I thought I'll, I'll go I'll go research it myself. But there's a there's a thought there. Okay. And we okay, because yeah, we use intravenous progesterone in acute traumatic brain injuries. Yeah. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  1:54:23
I've had her on 200. And I've just been cycling her off it. What's your thoughts on cycling? 10 days off a month on the progesterone? Not necessarily.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:34
The world's elite girl. She likes doing that. But most of my patients, when they find out that when you do that you they're going to start having periods again when they're in their 60s and 70s aren't too keen on that. So. So it's I don't have that much experience with to give a or an A or an A, but mostly

Speaker 1  1:54:57
just from the receptor, you know, like, how are we down regulating the receptors of the, you know, the progesterone receptors by doing it all the time. That's the thought, isn't it to try to cycle out of it and back onto it. But there's actually a study just going back to the normal tense of hydrocephalus. prostaglandin F A two that was done. Unfortunately, just in rats, where they were able to get the limb fend John's the lymph that actually helps the lymph get out of the brain. They use prostaglandin F A to do that, which was successful in the mouse study. But no, yeah. Yeah. Is that gonna do something else in a human? So I've hit her on 200 And I might even go higher. With a progesterone and see there's no downsides to progesterone going higher.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:52
Mostly fatigue, some high blood, gi bloating sometimes, but mostly fatigue.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:59
All right, but nothing, nothing.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:03
So, right.

Speaker 2  1:56:04
Have you heard of beta stung by any chance? vitae laid up Austin V E. A U S. T I N. She was one of the first people she started to copy that Japanese doctor who started to show the sequences in water. And some of them that were frozen in comparison to angry music.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:34
You know, oh, yeah, yep.

Speaker 2  1:56:37
She does the same thing. As she's created. Just the most massive. She uses petri dishes. And she'll speak to the water and it will produce a heart it will produce a violin. It will produce it's absolutely insane. If you can get her on your show. You'd be blown away.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:57
Okay, wow. All right. Oh, I have a look at

Speaker 1  1:57:00
getting lots of ideas and lots of work ahead of me and this group. is quite exciting.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:12
I blame it on John.

Speaker 1  1:57:16
Now you guys are absolutely fabulous. I'm gonna go and have to pick up my mommy shortly shortly guys so my brothers are gone are not going to pick her up in about 20 minutes. But I just wanted to say I'm very very honored.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:31
We are going to home where you are amazing.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:36
You guys are amazing. So

Bill Clearfield  1:57:39
interesting. And you know one of the one of the one of the problems with not your story yourself is that when others that are in your situation, we need you meet somebody as dedicated as you are to you know, see see, you know, see through to get past the doctors to to stick with them stick with mom to to make sure things get done. And you know, it's no, it's not easy to do and you know, someone who's run up and down the Himalayan mountains that maybe it's a little bit easier you know? You know,

Speaker 1  1:58:11
it's pretty tough. So you know, like, it's tough because you you know, I can speak freely and openly with you with you guys but when you go in to the hospital and they treat you like an idiot that knows nothing. And you're you know, that's really tough, right? Not to

Bill Clearfield  1:58:27
anybody that's been on this call and even those even those those of us with medical degrees have also been in hospitals have been treated like it it's

Unknown Speaker  1:58:34
very true.

Speaker 2  1:58:38
Think about this the VA hospital. I believe there's I don't don't quote me on how many but they have the most hospitals in the world. And I don't know about a fourth of them are research hospitals, but they're backed by big pharma. No, I know you and Dr. Clearfield had an excellent podcast and he told you a little bit about my story and things that are going on at the VA and you can see you had some problems with your father. It's the same thing at the VA. It really is. It's brutal.

Speaker 1  1:59:09
It is I've heard that over and over again about the VA to be honest, like from other you know, other sources.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:15
They're trying.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:18
They don't they don't laugh us out the front door anymore. Like the Wake when I

Speaker 2  1:59:23
well you got just like Dr. Nereo was saying you you literally have some doctors that will sneak in to intensive care and do a couple little treatments. And if you sign that lever I think it was an I'm not getting political. I think it was Trump who created that if you want to do experimental stuff, you could do experimental. So I know you gotta get go. I can go on and on. That's

Speaker 1  1:59:50
so important, though. That's what we need here. So you know, like my DP

Speaker 2  1:59:55
director, Dr. Clearfield rubs off on Yeah, you know, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:59
Does this this this one like convergence.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:08
Thank you so much.

Speaker 1  2:00:10
Wonderful. And please reach out to me individually. I'm very keen to connect with you all individually and if Yeah, I'd love to share my books or my tacos with you or whatever. And we'll stay friends. I hope you know.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:29
Let everyone know next week we have Heather halus of the ran into her during the homeopathic good the Canadian homeopathic conference and she's going to be giving us some insights and wisdom on some weight, weight control products and weight control technique tips and tricks. So that'll be next week. And, oh,

Speaker 2  2:00:58
let's not let's not forget about Homeopathics to homeopathic medicine. I don't know how that is in New Zealand. But hopefully you can come back and talk with Dr. Norio and Dr. Clearfield about what we've got going on. Between Nevada and Arizona. Were one of the few states in America that does Homeopathics or have medical boards and so forth, and Dr. narrows pretty big in that arena. And so that natural stuff that you could use over there.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:25
Yeah, yeah. Sounds like

Bill Clearfield  2:01:28
some of us took the took and passed the certifying test three months ago and still haven't seen our certificate yet. Dr. Neck

Bill Clearfield  2:01:43
and one last November 3 And am H management Medical Group in Salt Lake City. I will be speaking on longevity, longevity bhanji activity. I can't even say it and talk about that. rapamycin, autophagy and mTOR. So that's on on Ross Pelton that kind of kind of pushed me in that direction. So

Speaker 1  2:02:07
yeah, he's awesome. I've had him on so he's great. Hey, one final thing before I do go. Our first longevity group over here. Meeting is on the 27th of September which is your 26th. I'll send to build the details. I'd love you

Bill Clearfield  2:02:26
all to join. I'll send it out to everybody. Okay. And we have a

Speaker 1  2:02:31
gastroenterologist who's going to be sharing about irritable bowel is a presentation but it's the first inaugural meeting. So I'd love you guys turn up because then I look really good. I look like I'm really important. I've got all these amazing international

Bill Clearfield  2:02:48
gods. You gotta send them back our way to them. So absolutely,

Speaker 1  2:02:52
absolutely. We'll connect our groups and then you know, that'll that'll be really great. So yeah, that's I'll send you the details and you know, all of that good stuff.

Bill Clearfield  2:03:03
All of our friends it from the Philippines for being here every week. They've been with us now for about six or seven weeks. That was Dr. Nereo is doing also. And so we're glad to have you with us. And you'll have to let us know about that conference you that you were the keynote speaker for some time. So okay, Lisa, I don't know what else to say. Thank you so much. We always like a brief wrap up if you have a you know, like I said my son was in theater for 20 years and we always like to have them leaving the I leaving the theater you know, singing the lead song. So what's the lead?

Speaker 1  2:03:39
Oh, hi, I just, once again, thank you for welcoming me with with open arms for putting up with the technical stuff and, you know, yeah, I feel like you're a part of my new family now and I would love you to come and check out the group and my podcasts and reach out to me and all that sort of good stuff. So thanks,

Bill Clearfield  2:03:58
me the times the dates and a link and we will be there.

Speaker 1  2:04:03
Wonderful. Thanks. So okay, all right, everyone. We'll see you next week.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:13
And comments, quite John houses out things at the medical school.

Speaker 5  2:04:17
Everything's are so good. It's scary. So we'll keep talking and get this research group going and leasing so beautiful. I'm sure we're going to work out something with New Zealand and the Philippines. Sounds wonderful.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:34
We'll just have to, we'll just have to go elsewhere. That's all so that's

Unknown Speaker  2:04:38
exactly,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:39
exactly. All right.

Bill Clearfield  2:04:41
Okay, thank you so much, Lisa. Go take care of your mother and God bless her. God bless you, everybody. Thank you for being here. We got a pretty good retention for you know, you didn't we're at almost two hours so. Okay, we'll see you next week. Same time, same station, we got Heather house coming. We're gonna learn about some homeopathic remedies for weight control and whatever else she wants to share with us. So we'll see you then. Okay. Goodnight, everybody. I will send you the video, Lisa when it's ready. Although the emails for everybody that was on here also will send you that.

Speaker 4  2:05:19
Okay. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Thanks. Time. Tonight.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:23
Goodnight, everybody and Dr. Nereo. Hurry home. We missed you here. Tonight, everybody.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:31
Bye bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai