Unknown Speaker  00:40
Hey, Doc, how's it going? How are

Speaker 1  00:42
you I'm doing good. You know, we miss you around here.

Unknown Speaker  00:47
Yeah, likewise.

Speaker 2  00:53
Can you guys hear me at all? Yeah, oh, okay, good. You never know with, uh, my electronics, but you know, Joel, I gotta tell you, I think about you often. I really thank you. Thank you. And I cite you and some of the statistics that you talk about, and I'm completely appalled at some of the governmental spending, or what I would call tribal, trivial type of things, frivolous spending, when we've got veterans that need this, this, these damn resources, and I'm, I'm completely appalled at some of that stuff. So know that I'm with you, buddy. I

Speaker 3  01:29
appreciate it. I really do. It is bad. Oh,

Speaker 2  01:33
it's inexcusable. It is like, like I said, you know, we send these guys off to serve, and then when they get out or they come back, then we treat them like shit. Yeah, we're not live yet, so I can say that, right,

Speaker 3  01:48
right? No, I agree. It's pretty bad. And you know, the people at the VA, they try to do their best. Sure they're not all veterans that work at the VA some are half civilian, some are half better, and so, you know, they do their best. But you're, you're playing with, uh, Big Pharma,

Speaker 2  02:09
oh, big pharma, and big politics and big insurance and big everything that that doesn't always do the right thing.

Speaker 3  02:15
Amen. Yeah, it's horrible. Well, I mean, take Dr Clearfield. If it wasn't for him, I'd I'd probably be dead. I'll just be honest, it was the VA. VA said it was in my head and that I was stressing. And I got down to 145

Unknown Speaker  02:36
pounds. That's a default answer. I couldn't

Speaker 3  02:39
eat. Yeah, I was, I was I had no appetite, none. It was my mom was feeding me by my mom moved in to help keep me alive. It was feeding me by hand. And when I say feeding me, that was like, I remember, like, the last meal was, like, three green beans, you know, spoonful of corn and, like, one piece of meat and a little bit of milk, and that was all I could eat. It was, it was crazy. Well,

Speaker 2  03:10
well, well, I'll tell you what. Joel, we all know, Dr Clearfield is freaking half Saint anyway, so nothing less, only half.

Speaker 4  03:24
Dr Bill. Real quick. I talked to Dr Burgess today, and so he's, he's going to have me give my talk on Sunday, on Zoom.

Speaker 2  03:37
Okay, hold on, Dr Crowley, we're going to postpone this thing. Really, you probably haven't seen the email. Yeah, it's just not When.

Speaker 4  03:46
When did you guys decide it? And I think we this morning?

Speaker 5  03:50
Well, I talked to him. We've

Speaker 2  03:53
got a bunch of people, plane tickets, we got all of that stuff. But you know what, without Dr Burgess there, there's no way we're going to pull

Speaker 4  04:01
it together. It sounded horrible this morning with Kathy O'Neill.

Speaker 2  04:06
I mean, this thing is big and and you take away the glue, and it's just not, it's just not the least, God

Speaker 4  04:13
is pancreatic pancreatitis activated again, yeah,

Speaker 2  04:18
yeah. I don't want him to stress over this thing either, like, oh, you know, make sure, like, he gave his credit card information to Marie to do, oh, Jesus. You know, it's just not the right it's not the right time we got, we got

Speaker 4  04:31
so he is in. Are you crystal clear that he's in agreement with this? Because I don't think he remember 930 or 1030 is when I talk to him. Oh, actually, I can see on my

Speaker 1  04:47
I talked to him yesterday, and he he wants me to send them, like $8,000

Speaker 4  04:55
I talked to him at 11:04am, to today,

Speaker 1  05:00
somebody named Kathy O'Brien or Kathy Oh, something or other,

Unknown Speaker  05:04
Bill or Neil.

Speaker 6  05:07
Can anybody? Can anybody hear

Unknown Speaker  05:10
me? Yes,

Speaker 6  05:13
I am the one that's picking Kathy up. I have not heard that. This has been canceled.

Speaker 2  05:20
We just, just decided today, last minute, we wanted to make sure Dr

Speaker 4  05:25
Burgess is is not conveyed that or he, I

Speaker 2  05:29
don't think he even knows yet. And like I said, I've been busy trying to get ready for this thing. I think Dr Tano was involved. Dr Ben zavinia, and everybody said, Oh God, let's, you know, let's postpone. We were trying to wait as long as we could to see if it could be pulled off. So I really appreciate you if you're able to say something to Kathy on this, we just, we're going to postpone. We don't want to cancel, that's for sure. But like Ben was saying possibly end of August, beginning of September, or something like that, if we can, if we can postpone, it's, it's not as if Dr Burgess were just one of the presenters. He's the glue. He's the organizer of the whole darn thing.

Speaker 6  06:18
I was with. I was with him prior to his, his, uh, little surgery, and yesterday, he said, everything's a Go get her in there. I plan on be there Friday, whatever sessions. And he said there's going to be, like, 12 people. That's, you know, it's better than nothing. Well, it's, you know, it's a foundation for what can happen in the future.

Speaker 2  06:46
And that's why, that's why we're not we're gonna postpone it to when we're full strength.

Unknown Speaker  06:54
Is John going to be on tonight at all? Or no, I

Speaker 2  06:57
have no idea. I haven't talked to him at all. You

Speaker 1  07:00
know, I talked to him yesterday. He had me gathered to send the money. So, yeah, $6,000 for the $6,000 for the venue, and $2,000 for Kathy O'Neil,

Speaker 2  07:14
yeah, O'Brien. O'Brien, I don't even know her.

Speaker 1  07:20
There isn't, I don't know her either. There is a Kathy O'Neill, isn't there? Kathleen, yeah. Kathleen O'Neill Smith, we've had her, Yes, oh,

Speaker 4  07:34
can we do since you're in well, I'm,

Speaker 6  07:38
I'm planning on picking her up. And he said to come to the location, and he had four people on the list, and he said, we're ready. And you know, it's from Friday night till Sunday morning, basically,

Speaker 2  07:56
yeah. And as you know, we all, we all had flights and everything scheduled and all that kind of stuff. But again, I mean, when I when I found out that he had surgery, I was, Oh, my God, that's bad. And then knowing that the gravity of this thing, I mean, I was like, crushed that he doesn't feel so well, and he put so much into this, I'm hoping that the relief, the stress, relief of this will benefit him as well. It was

Speaker 7  08:22
exploratory surgery, to be precise,

Unknown Speaker  08:25
exploratory that just sounds really bizarre to me.

Unknown Speaker  08:29
What do we expect? They open

Unknown Speaker  08:31
them up to see what's there,

Speaker 1  08:37
right? Man, right? Should have done any of us, from the neck up, right, wouldn't you found any

Unknown Speaker  08:45
more space than anything else?

Unknown Speaker  08:49
Yeah, almost sounds like the

Speaker 1  08:51
areas and

Unknown Speaker  08:57
he told he read it.

Unknown Speaker  09:02
Yep, that's what Marie said,

Speaker 2  09:04
yeah, oh, God, I don't know personally. I mean, okay, I just, I just didn't feel right, and I talked Well, Ben told me. He told me today, he says I'm 80 to 90% not wanting to do this.

Speaker 1  09:19
Yeah, I was 100 when he when he broached, it's like five, six weeks ago, I said, you know how long it takes me to put together a conference, nine to 12 months?

Unknown Speaker  09:30
Yeah, yeah. No. It

Unknown Speaker  09:34
takes me nine to 12 months

Speaker 6  09:37
at this point. I think the the smaller the group, the more encouragement we can give to him.

Speaker 2  09:44
Yeah, well, I think we can give him encouragement. We can also let him know that, hey, it's a fabulous idea. Like Doctor Clearfield said it, it takes a lot, a lot of time, a lot of effort, to put the thing together. And if you look at it like this, being this close, hopefully there's not a lot more that has to be done when we reschedule.

Speaker 6  10:05
What do you think, John? What do you think? John,

Unknown Speaker  10:12
Dr Burgess, you there? I'm here,

Unknown Speaker  10:16
John, how are you I don't even want to ask. How come I got noise? What's that

Unknown Speaker  10:27
he's getting noise?

Speaker 2  10:29
That's just me talking. Yeah, so John, if you can hear me, the thought is, this is not the same without everything that you would do, and your leadership, your guidance. So we we're just talking about just postponing. We're not talking about canceling. We're postponing. Ben and I are going to see if we can postpone our flights, you know, get a credit and all that kind of stuff. So we make sure this happens. He is suggesting end of August, beginning of September, or something like that, based on all the other parameters. And as Dr Clearfield mentioned, it's a big thing to put on something like this, and maybe this, this will give us a little little bit more time to get some stuff together and some more people. I know Ben had people coming, and you know, we were all looking forward to this thing, but I was just personally, like, like, crushed when I found out that, you know, you weren't doing well, and suddenly we're going for surgery.

Speaker 6  11:30
John, I'm still planning on picking Kathy up, so we're still on for you. Oh, my God. I deep.

Unknown Speaker  11:44
You there? John.

Unknown Speaker  11:55
Ariel, you have our Tip of the Week.

Unknown Speaker  11:59
Think we lost them. Yeah.

Speaker 8  12:01
Well, it seems like this is a pretty interesting conversation, but yes, I do have our sleep for the week, so kind of icebreaker here. So angiotensin two receptor blockers or ARBs are commonly prescribed for your hypertension, right and cardiovascular protection, especially in patients who cannot tolerate ACE inhibitors. Among them, of course, Losartan, and tell me certain are widely used, each with distinct advantages. So this is mostly in the integrative world, and Losartan is often preferred by patients with early kidney disease, particularly diabetic nephropathy, due to its ability to down regulate TGF beta one. So you hear this a lot with Dr halasa, a cytokine involved in fibrosis and inflammation, it also lowers uric acid levels, making it a good choice for patients with chronic kidney disease or gout, and it's shorter Half Life, allows easier dose adjustments. In contrast, the other option for integrative practitioners in the ARB world. So ARB, just to remind you, it can came the claim to fame came when COVID hit. So but and also these you can use, but tell me, sartan offers unique benefits through its partial activation of PPAR Gamma, which improves insulin sensitivity and supports metabolic health. It is favored in patients with metabolic syndrome and pre diabetes or type two diabetes. It has potential anti aging and anti inflammatory and even neuro protective effects of host with a long half life of 24 hours. Um, tell me. Sartan provides a consistent blood pressure control and may reduce visceral fat. It improves lipid profiles as well and support mitochondrial function. While both are effective. ARBs, Losartan is best suited for renal protection and gout prone individuals, whereas telling me, sartan is ideal for cardio metabolic risk reduction and those seeking additional metabolic and longevity benefits. So that's why this is just using ARB in a specific patient profile. So a good probably, I guess, example, also for Losartan, would be people who has fibrosis, like pulmonary fibrosis, like liver fibrosis, cirrhosis. So anything with a fibrosis work in a pathology you could use that also at the same time lowering your blood pressure for, tell me, sartan. This is where now you have this metabolic syndrome presentation, along with high blood pressures, obesity, pre diabetes and even anti aging effects that you want the patient to achieve. So it's just a different perspective, and using your ARBs hitting two birds with one stone type of approach.

Speaker 2  14:48
Dr Nario will sar 10, and what is the other one? I'm not familiar. Uh, tell me. Sartan.

Speaker 8  14:54
So, T, E, L, yeah, M, I, S, A, R, T, A, N, I think. Okay,

Speaker 1  15:01
didn't Dr Halas like Losartan for, yeah, perfection,

Speaker 8  15:06
that's right. Well, he likes it for TGF beta one, so that's more for fibrotic conditions. So yeah, and of course, serious protocols use Losartan when they get to that TGF beta one lowering stage, which is step 12. So a lot of search practitioners are very familiar with this, with this medicine. Well, that's our tip of the week.

Speaker 1  15:30
Wow, yeah, Tip of the Week. Okay. Oh, and Dr

Speaker 8  15:34
Quinn, I didn't realize you were home homeopathic in the part of the Association of homeo, the homeopathic pharmacist, is that correct? Yeah, yeah. So, yeah. So I mentioned to you, we're still, we're still getting decisions here. It's not done yet. June will be the day we'll find out. Okay,

Speaker 2  15:53
yeah. And what that means is that I know very little about it compared to you guys, however, however, I was involved in using homeopathic, in compounding things. Hey,

Speaker 8  16:06
we, we still, we still need you there so, but I'm pushing for you. I'm pulling the strings, and

Speaker 3  16:12
if I got it correct. Dr Quinn, that's one of the reasons you moved from California to Nevada, is so you could do what you do? Yeah,

Speaker 2  16:21
yeah, exactly, exactly. And just as a this is going to sound weird, and I think Dr Crowley may understand this, just as a shield to some of the things that I wanted to do, I include cannabinoids, so everything falls under that, so I don't so I'm not prescription based exactly, and I'm not total supplement based, right? So we're able to put things together to help people that have got all the multi modal mechanisms of action. That's what we're looking for. And it doesn't limit me on what I put in there. I just

Speaker 3  16:53
told you about when I was 145 pounds and I was going to the VA back then, this was, I don't know, 10 years ago. I was still smoking cannabis, and I still couldn't eat. I had no appetite. Even smoking cannabis, you

Speaker 2  17:11
know, Joel, not not all of it stimulates appetite. That's one of the big things.

Speaker 3  17:16
Agree. And the VA was still telling me to stop smoking, and they, you know, made it my fault that the reason, yeah, I'm this sick is because I'm smoking cannabis. And I'm like, Dude, I can't even I'm like, 145 pounds. Are you kidding me? I'm six feet. It was, I was 252 pounds in high school, you know? Wow. So to be 145 pounds, man, by the time I actually I was going, I started to go to Whole Foods. And a couple people there were, like, You got to get away from the VA, or you're gonna die. Because I was, I was really shrinking. They, they were literally the people. And so that's when I went to this little, I don't know, pamphlet stand, and I found a pamphlet, and it had Dr Clearfield. And that Clearfield guy, yeah, I found Dr Clearfield. And he was like, man, your testosterone is super, super low. This is not right. But I was above the I was like, 253 or 252, or something. So you're, if you're,

Speaker 1  18:28
I think they said, Yeah, 225 was their cut off or something

Speaker 3  18:31
like that. Yeah, yeah. So I was just barely above it. Symptoms

Unknown Speaker  18:35
be damned, right?

Speaker 3  18:39
It was so horrible. And then the first time I got that testosterone shot is like the heat came back into my body. Wow,

Speaker 2  18:49
just like that. Amazing. And the VA had no inkling that that would work, not

Unknown Speaker  18:54
at all, not at all.

Speaker 8  18:56
Hey, Joe, you know, I had a patient from the VA. I gave testosterone to the guy. He said he's going to report me to my board. Oh, God. Indicated

Unknown Speaker  19:07
really, yeah, it's

Speaker 8  19:10
a V, and then the guy believed him. And yeah, he's far away from me. He ran away from me as far as he can.

Speaker 3  19:18
Okay, so if he's is he still giving you problems you want me to talk to them? No,

Speaker 1  19:22
no, no, it's just like an example breakers we have.

Unknown Speaker  19:29
Like, that's right. I'll go take care of it.

Speaker 2  19:34
Yeah. That just goes to show you where people pick up their info and what they think and agree. Let

Speaker 1  19:41
us meet our speaker today, the illustrious Dr Robert Quinn, who I would call a recovering pharmacist.

Unknown Speaker  19:51
You hear that Carol,

Speaker 1  19:54
he was a practicing chemist two years prior to graduate school. He has a doctorate degree in pharmacy from USC School of Pharmacy, and he was the class president. Can you believe that graduate pharmacology for two years in the physical therapy doctoral program for the Department of Kinesiology at USC, he was the first pharmacist to become a fellow in the Academy of ozone therapy, two years advanced training and Environmental Medicine from Southwest College of naturopathic medicine. 10 plus years as a hospital pharmacy director. He owned a compounding pharmacy, a regenerative medicine center. For 10 years, he created and developed over 150 IV formulations for wellness, the immune system, uh, detoxification and energy. He treats hundreds of quote, unquote, what it says, quote, unquote, hormone patients. What is that?

Speaker 2  20:50
Well, does anybody want to be known as a hormone patient?

Speaker 1  20:53
Yeah, I'm the hormone king of Reno. What are you talking about? You could be the king.

Unknown Speaker  20:57
But do you see hormone patients

Speaker 1  21:01
contemplating, I gotta put this out. I'm contemplating changing my, my domain site for my my website for my office, to Clearfield ghost hormonal.com Do you think you

Speaker 2  21:15
like that? I don't know. Sometimes when they say people go hormonal, it's not a good thing.

Speaker 1  21:20
Well, you know, co founder, CEO of prism mirth, a cannaceutical manufacturing company in 2021 and he has 10 original therapeutic combination products. Well, he's way smarter than I am, that's for sure. And so he's going to speak to us on muscle stuff,

Speaker 2  21:43
right? Muscle centers, health, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  21:46
that. That's the watch where that's, that's, that's his. That's his thing too. These days now he's not here tonight, okay, yeah, exactly. He's going, oh shoot, yeah, yeah, I got invited there too. I couldn't swing it. It's sort of the British functional medicine clinic or something. So I couldn't.

Speaker 3  22:09
And that's how you stay old. Is taking care of your muscles. Point blank.

Unknown Speaker  22:14
Okay, that's it. Winter's over

Speaker 2  22:18
when you see my when you see my slide with the goals, then it's over. It's, it's real simple.

Speaker 1  22:24
Okay, all right. What do I do? Share away. Yep, share a screen here. It's all yours.

Speaker 2  22:32
Okay, let's see what happens. Okay, um, do I need to get rid of the thumbnails there on the left? Uh, well, you see that,

Speaker 1  22:41
you know, get rid of this stuff. Go to slideshow, and then then it'll take

Unknown Speaker  22:45
slideshow. That's right,

Unknown Speaker  22:49
right? And then when you do that,

Speaker 2  22:55
okay, how's that? Now I have the thumbnails of the people on the side. How do I get rid of

Speaker 1  23:00
that. See, all I see is you. Oh, the sun deals of the people

Speaker 2  23:05
I see Me. You. Joel, our scenario? Carol, well, if

Speaker 1  23:11
we, if we all close our video, you won't see us. See, there we go.

Speaker 2  23:15
It'll just be a bunch of blanks, though, it'll still kind of, no,

Speaker 1  23:19
it's, it's my herbage, close your video, then it goes away. Usually there's

Unknown Speaker  23:25
an X somewhere for you to exit

Speaker 2  23:26
out looking for the X. Okay, there's a Okay, well, it's on the top. Now, is that so by sharing, you don't see my screen now, though, right? Yes,

Speaker 1  23:37
yeah, I don't see it. Current professional memberships. That's what we see. I don't even see it

Speaker 2  23:44
interesting, yeah, I must have done something wrong. You are sharing. Let's see my screen. Okay, I kind of see it now and then advancing it. Just click on it and advances. Yeah,

Speaker 1  24:01
down at the bottom left is, usually is where you click on it

Unknown Speaker  24:05
says, audio, video,

Speaker 1  24:07
no, no, that at the bottom of the slide, not that far down the slide, a little, it'll be like a little arrow, or you, or you can hit return, or hit Return,

Speaker 2  24:19
just return on my keyboard. Yeah, enter, yeah, enter. Oh, okay, let's see nothing. Nothing happens, you know. And I've done this before, and I'm always a moron at this,

Speaker 1  24:29
yeah, well, if you go down, like I said, usually at the bottom left is where, how you advance it, yeah,

Speaker 2  24:36
I have not. And then the current slide isn't even complete. Part of it's blanked out. So I did something wrong.

Unknown Speaker  24:44
Try the up down arrows on your keyboard.

Unknown Speaker  24:48
Nothing. I hit something right.

Speaker 3  24:50
Try to slide to the left or the right. See what that does.

Speaker 2  24:54
What do you mean? Just on your

Unknown Speaker  24:57
Well, I'm on an iPad, so I just, you know,

Speaker 9  25:01
Quinn just exit and come back in. Okay. Meeting completely. Yeah, no, exit the slides and come back again.

Unknown Speaker  25:14
I think, I think he left us. He took it. He took it to the next level. Dr Tano,

Speaker 3  25:25
well, he's from Vegas, so it's probably like 100 degrees right there, right now. He's wearing a

Speaker 1  25:30
shirt tonight, at least I know. Yeah, okay, so in the meantime, Dr Tanner what's what's going on with the with the Research Society? Well,

Speaker 9  25:45
as you know, Dr Burgess is not doing well this weekend. We're looking forward to meeting him and do the conference, as he wanted us to do. But now that he's sick, I don't know what is going on? The discussion,

Speaker 6  26:06
may I, may I speak, Yes, speak. I just, I just got off the phone with John, and it's still a Go ahead.

Speaker 9  26:17
Go ahead. Okay, so how is he doing?

Speaker 6  26:22
He's, he's doing well. He's, he's getting better each day. And he said, we're 100% on being a pilot. He said, You don't abort a plane when it's up in the air. Okay? So I said, I got it. They're gonna be there. Yeah,

Speaker 9  26:41
tell him to talk to Doctor Ben and Doctor Kun, for me, I can go either way, because I haven't canceled my flat yet. So we can, yeah, potentially, if they're in agreement, and I think Dr Dimitri also may be able to make it, so he's already in the area. So if that is what his wishes are, we could probably make it happen.

Unknown Speaker  27:08
Okay, well, Ben just got off with

Speaker 6  27:11
him. I just got off the phone with him. It is a go. So please make plans to be there. If you okay. You were going to it is happening.

Speaker 2  27:22
Still got all the plans already set. So that's good. Now it can you guys hear me? Yes. Way back to the

Unknown Speaker  27:31
slides. Okay, so

Speaker 2  27:32
I'm going to hit share, to share my screen, right? And, oh, shoot, my slides aren't up so electronically challenged. It's sad.

Speaker 9  27:45
So up in the be PowerPoint first. Open

Speaker 2  27:51
PowerPoint first. So I have to minimize this thing, right? Minimize everything i

Speaker 2  28:05
Okay, I've got it now. I just hit, well, my PowerPoint is open, but it's not on. I'm not in the zoom thing.

Speaker 9  28:12
Yeah, no, share. You had to share that now. Well, yeah, but I

Speaker 2  28:16
go to the bottom where it usually has share screen, and it's not there. So do do

Speaker 9  28:20
not do the complete open PowerPoint. So go back to like instead of sharing the PowerPoint. Or do be instead of doing the slide show. Don't do a slide show, otherwise you will not see the button. Yeah, that's,

Speaker 2  28:37
that's what happened. But I'm Dr channel. I'm not. I am hearing everybody, but I'm not really. It doesn't seem like I'm on Zoom. Well,

Speaker 9  28:46
you are we see you. Oh, you see me, yeah, okay,

Speaker 2  28:50
but I can't, I don't see I don't there's not like there always is a share screen, except I don't have that now, it's always there, except now

Speaker 9  29:01
it should be there. So maybe I should close the the PowerPoint slideshow. So then, okay, I minimized it. Yeah, if you minimize it, it will not work. Just close up a slide show. Okay,

Speaker 2  29:16
hold on, let me close it. Okay, I closed it. And then the thing about return,

Speaker 9  29:23
do the share and click on the PowerPoint. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  29:27
it's not there, so I have to return the meeting first. See, I'm sorry, because when I hit Share,

Speaker 9  29:38
yeah, okay, now you're coming in. You're coming in, have my PowerPoint, though, yeah, you have to click on your PowerPoint now, somewhere.

Speaker 3  29:47
We got your whole screen right now. We got it click on

Speaker 9  29:51
your PowerPoint now, okay, I gotta open it. Yes, open it now, very good, and now go to good to be. Show lines.

Speaker 2  30:01
Okay, yeah, isn't that great? But I don't you can see it.

Speaker 9  30:05
Yeah, you can see it. So go to the slide show. Now, on top, and then from so it's probably beginning right. There you go.

Unknown Speaker  30:14
Okay, you got

Unknown Speaker  30:16
it out. Okay, notice,

Unknown Speaker  30:20
I'm sorry, go ahead. Now

Speaker 9  30:21
you can click the arrow. I mean, use your your mouse and go or click hit Return, see if it goes down

Unknown Speaker  30:29
at the bottom. Yeah,

Speaker 1  30:32
so Bob, if you're still having true yeah, at the bottom, there, yeah, there, on their education, yes, there. You go. There you go. Should be able to advance it from there,

Speaker 9  30:45
there you go. Now we can see the Yeah. Now, can you

Speaker 2  30:50
see that muscle centric? Help? Yes, okay, that's I had a bad

Speaker 1  30:55
slide show. Also, if you have trouble, I can put it up and sort of just, Okay,

Speaker 2  30:58
well, let's give it. I appreciate that. Let's just give it a go and see what happens here. Happens here. Shall we Yeah, okay, okay, all right. So here's the agenda. You can see this, right? I'll probably ask you 10 times, can you see that? Okay, so here's the agenda, right? The introduction, what is muscle, neuromuscular system, the importance, physiology, metabolic importance, actionable steps, which that's the main thing with this. And first of all, let me back up by saying, I really appreciate this. Thank you to Dr Clearfield and your group. I'm so appreciative of you allowing me the time to do this. You know, it's kind of funny. We tend to try to give things that we are, quote, unquote experts in know a lot about or learned a lot about, you know, maybe back in school or whatever, and I don't know that anybody learned anything about this type of thing and the stuff that I'm going to talk about, because it's extremely, extremely critical. And as someone said, once we get done with this, when you see the value of muscle, If if they say if Big Pharma could get all of this stuff into a pill, it'd be the greatest selling drug in history. But that is the easy way, looking for the pills and things and, you know, even as Dr Neri. That we're coming up with, like the ARBs and all of that that do a little bit of the the metabolic benefits that we have here, but this is a lecture that hopefully will stimulate people to do things about it, because a lot of us are just not where we should be, and can get so much healthier and and kick off our our foray into longevity through this. So I'm really kind of excited to get on to the actionable steps and all of that kind of stuff, right? And then we'll talk very little about diet. Okay? Diet is what I call a minefield topic. Every time you talk about one thing or another, there's people that say, No, that doesn't work, or you gotta do this, or you gotta do that, but the basic thing for muscles is protein, and then the part that I'm excited about is is talking about resistance training to build muscle. And there are resistance training has to do with the body, right? Bands, isometrics and weights. And then there's a recovery, recovery sleep, and then vo two, Max cardiovascular. And then there's a little test here that I can't really wait to have you guys take a look at. Okay, and again, like I told you at the beginning, Dr Clearfield, this my goal for the whole thing right there, lift heavy items. Okay? And it shows like The late you know, can you do this? Lift bags of groceries and carry them? Can you move right? There's a couple things there, lower left, somebody. Can you pick up a child? Can you, can you bend and pick up things from the floor? And only Stefan can lift that weight with one finger, I think. So we'll leave it at that. And then 70% of Americans are overweight. And I think I'm hearing 40 more or more percent of Americans are actually considered obese, right? And then this, this quote here, we're not over fat, we're under muscle that's attributable to Dr Gabrielle Lyon from her book, forever strong. I'm going to do a bunch of references in this that might be a little bit different to what people are used to. I consider this type of forum webinars and things a lot like podcasts only not live, right? So what you what I'm imparting here, and what we all do through these webinars is our our study, our research, our research of articles, or what have you, and then we present that type of thing and which, which is kind of the way we did in school, right? We relied on our professors to do the research, know the research, and give us the skinny, give us the information. And that's what this is. And I encourage people through this, if you have desire, because we all have need to get on some of these podcasts and learn. Some of these podcasts are very technical, and they do, they throw up references and all this kind of stuff, right? It's so it's, it's a phenomenal way to learn. And as they used to say something like it takes 15 years to get from the bench to the bedside, and that's when we all had to, you know, wait for the latest issue of jam or New England Journal or Lancet or something, to find out all the information, and then maybe try to put it in practice. Now, the stuff is instantaneous, okay, so that's why I will cite people like Dr Gabrielle Lyon. She's a do. I've tried to reach out to her doctor, Clearfield, to get her to come on here, but I don't get a response. So it's one of those things where they're so doggone busy. Anyway, moving on. Muscle is the organ of longevity, and it's governed by the brain muscle connection. Muscles don't do anything by themselves. An interesting fact here is, in evolution, the main reason that we as humans have a large brain is so that we can move. Our movements are different than any other animals. You can't teach any animal to do a triathlon. You can't teach them to do a via phone. They can't shoot and then ski. They can't do gymnastics. Very rare that you can find an animal that can swim and run, okay? Humans can do it all, and that's why our brain, comparative to our size and others, is is absolutely huge, and it governs the different types of and duration of movement. The thing here about lifting increasingly heavier objects, you can increase speed, smoothness of movement and create new movements by doing this. And of course, muscle is important for metabolism. The one thing I think is extremely critical is the more muscle you have, the healthier you are. And something that we don't think about is that when you have more muscle, you have tremendous skin health. Your skin looks better. And there's a lot of theories about this. So you can measure this and say, Oh, these people have muscle. Skin looks like this. But why is that? It's because they talk about developing muscle sends out signals all over the body to increase our our growth in certain areas, and skin is is one of them. And of course, it's linked to to posture and anesthetics. And muscle can be lean or fatty, which is another important point. You either have a ribeye steak in your muscle, where fat gets deposited there, that's not useful, or, you know, or you have a prime cut that is mostly muscle, okay? And then here's a skeletal muscle as an endocrine order. And you're going to see slides like this throughout. This comes from circulation. I think this is one of the ones that I might have picked up from Dr Miletus that he he showed because it does give you a whole lot of information on how the how the muscle secretes myokines to do certain things. My favorite one is, besides BDNF is on, yeah?

Unknown Speaker  38:23
Sorry, everybody, yeah, that was, uh, go ahead, Bob, sorry. Am

Speaker 2  38:28
I? Am I okay? Are we on? You're on, you're on. That was muted. Okay, you want me to shut it? Okay? I get it. No, no, no, it

Speaker 1  38:35
was I've tried to click somebody in, and one of the my co host did it, and you, oh, okay,

Speaker 2  38:41
muscles, organ of longevity, plain and simple, right? And it's a proxy for total health, right? And then life skills improve, and then, and we need to lift as we age. And I'm going to go over this a lot, that you start where you are today, start today, start tomorrow. Doesn't matter what you lift, how much you lift, or what you do. And you know, we don't talk about products, we don't talk about companies, but I will tell you this is that our group, we can help people who have as little as five to six minutes a day start and start improving their overall health. And the main thing that we have to keep in mind when you talk to your patients or yourself or your spouse or your neighbor, right, if they want to do anything, we all need to, you don't say, okay, all you gotta do is train 30 minutes. You know, that's all the stuff comes out. 150 minutes of brisk walking a week, and this is going to do this and that that's the wrong approach. The right approach to move people is to find out how much time they have. And I mean, if you've got two minutes and you brush your teeth, we can come up with something that you can do that's going to help your help your muscles. Also. Skeletal muscle is an endocrine organ. It's probably 40% of the body mass, and it's a nutrient sensing organ. It's sensitive to the quality of our diet. And amino acids, of course, that's a big thing, and amino acid reservoirs for protein turnover. You're going to hear me talk about a lot about leucine, one of the essential amino acids. The the standard that we're seeing in all the literature now is you need about 2.5 grams per meal if you eat three, three meals a day, and and you're 2.5 grams of Leucine in your meal, and your total protein needs to be anywhere from 30 to 50 grams each time. Okay. And then again, glucose disposal. So when you eat and your body's got glucose, where does it go? We don't want it to go to fat, but 80% of it heads to the muscles. And if you don't have the muscle mass, it's not going to stay there, and it's going to go back into circulation, and it's going to go to visceral fat, or where else we don't want it. And then body armor is pretty important, because, you know, we talk about falls and all that kind of stuff. And if you know, if you have no muscle, you're going to break, it's just, it's just pretty doggone simple. And I like this thing where it's responsible for how we age. If we don't have muscle, we're going to age much more rapidly and not very well. And then, of course, common diseases that are involved, and we'll cover this later, cardiovascular diabetes, etc, etc, that begins in skeletal muscle, so you don't have diabetes. And then your muscle starts to deteriorate. It's the other way around. And then skeletal muscle, of course, burns fatty acids when you're you're not exercising, right? Your muscles don't burn much glucose. They burn the free fatty acids that are there and stores of glucose as glycogen, and that's where it's burned. And then the one of the big issues is, and I don't know we'll ever be able to figure this out. We don't know the optimum amount of muscle for each individual person. And of course, that varies, and a lot of it has to do, I think, with genetics as well. And I'll talk a little bit about what the two aspects of genetics are that are real obvious that we can't really do, do too much about. And this is the neuromuscular system and the junctions you can see there on the little graphic, the thing on the right, hopefully you can see that. I put that in here to to illustrate the fact that we have there's a technical term, but it's like a lockout system. So if you are lifting your bicep, if you're lifting your hand up to your chin or hand up to scratch your ear, your bicep is engaged, but your body totally locks out the tricep. It will not work when you're going one way, and when you put your hand down your tricep or the back of your arm, pulls it down, and your bicep is totally locked out. Otherwise you'd be fighting. You wouldn't be able to lift your arm put it back down smoothly, right? So it's a it's a really nice system, and it's based on the neuromuscular junction that we have, there's three components of the neurons. There's the upper motor neurons, the lower motor neurons, and then the central pattern generators. And you can see here kind of what they do. The upper motor neurons are deliberate movement. So that's Can you, you know, pick up and throw a ball. That's the upper motor neurons in the brain, motor cortex, the loader, the lower motor neurons cause contraction via acetylcholine, and the central pattern generators are rhythmic movement. So you're you're walking, and most of us don't say to ourselves, left, right, left, right, left, right, you're just walking, and your central pattern generators are what picks that up and takes over, and it just allows you to do that without thinking about it. We use the nervous system for muscle growth, and there's a term I hope you guys are familiar with, if not, we're going to talk a lot about it, and that's hypertrophy. That's That's kind of a critical component here of this now the neuromuscular connection, muscle metabolism. Metabolism is how muscles create and use energy. And there's something else that I'm going to really get into here, and that is called the one rep max and and in case i Yes, this

Speaker 10  44:15
is Dr Patel, hi. Can you please go over what happens in upper motor neuron disease, or ALS the previous side, and can you discuss little more? Because we want to find out how to increase the muscle mass in ALS, because their muscle resting is the big problem when I'm sorry I had to disturb you. But if

Speaker 2  44:41
we don't know that that that's fine, I will tell you that I am certainly no expert in how we treat ALS. However, you're 100% correct. That's one of the diseases that is so debilitating due to what happens with the with the muscle, if there's anything that can be done and and what, from what I see, what I read, what I hear, is that the very beginning, or the onset, when people know this now, we have to dedicate all our efforts toward that, which means make sure the protein intake is right. And as you know, as well as I do, there are things that that we don't control real well, as far as toxins and things like that, that are going to affect us. But if we can maximize the protein intake in people like that at the very beginning, we have a better shot at slowing it down. I'm not going to say that I ever saw anything that says we can reverse it, but I think we can slow it down so and I have seen cases of people in the literature who have ALS, who have begun doing things to increase muscle. And I'm not going to say hypertrophy, I'm not going to say build muscle, go out and lift weights. It's using them, right? And and that that goes into an anabolic resistance, which is a big, big thing with ALS, it's, it's anabolic resistance. What that's saying is that if you have ALS, that you can't build muscle. Well, the the main thing with that is, please learn movement, learn deliberate movement from the upper motor cortex before it deteriorates so much to where you cannot control the movement. And that's where the upper motor cortex comes in on that. Hopefully, that makes sense.

Speaker 3  46:35
And what about ensure the ensure high protein. It actually is prescribed at the VA, and it's six grams of protein in a little, you know, a little drink. And you can do right, a couple drinks, actually, when you're in the hospital, if you notice, they give you an insurer, they give you a boost insurer, those kind of things. Yes, exactly. Okay. Last time I argued with a doctor, I was like, Man, do you see how much sugar is in that? And she's like, Oh, you mean, like, what you're drinking? Alcohol?

Speaker 2  47:12
Yeah. Joel, that's it. That's such a great point. That's the killer. Is the sugar. But we have to consider something. When you take in protein like that, what they don't tell you is maybe 10 to 20% of that is absorbed. So if it says six grams, 12 grams, 15 grams, you're not absorbing 100% of that. And that's why it's very difficult to build muscle with protein, things like that, and then it's got the double whammy of the sugar. So if you can do protein shakes or drinks on your own, that's a little bit better, because some of the stuff you can get as much as 50 plus percent absorption into the body. That's the key, right? It's not, it's not what you take in, it's what you absorb,

Speaker 3  47:57
and you absorb what you exercise

Speaker 2  48:00
Well, yeah, and think about this too. Any type of protein that you take in, remember, the protein that you take in doesn't go to your muscles, right? The protein you take in is broken down into amino acids, so it's not the protein, it's the amino acids, and our body can combines these amino acids for human use. So if you eat a steak or something like that, that's cattle protein. That's different, right? We got to break it down and recombine it. And there, we can't talk about this, but there's companies out there, and one of the guys we all know is has got product. Products that combine the right amount of amino acids and then, like you said, then you do exercise, and you're on your way. But I would never suggest anybody just right off the street try to live on a booster, insure any of those kind of things. Got you hospital? Yeah, you got to, you know, we all know you got to do what you got to do to get a little bit well there. But what I don't like is the sugar. I mean, that's worse. It's horrible, not exactly so. So

Speaker 10  49:11
it's in fact that that amino acids have to bind to minerals in order to be utilized. And so mineral complex, and if you don't supply the minerals with the amino acids, then then it's not being utilized. You think you are taking it, but not really. Yeah,

Speaker 2  49:31
you're right. And then great. And I liken it back to remember our our old days in in hospitals when we had hyper elementation, right? We had the amino acids, the fats and the and and the electrolytes and all that stuff all put into one, right? So, so people that are in that state, you know, it, they're expensive, but, but rather than have boost, it would be better if they had hyper Alice. Okay, let me, let me talk about real fast about that. And thank you for jumping in here, because that makes it much, much better. And I think the questions and the statements that you people, that people ask, are germane to what people want to know. And that's what this is all about, right understanding and knowing what's going on, and then knowing how we can move the needle, as they say. So I want to talk about this thing called one rep max. And I don't want to get too deeply into this and it and it's here throughout. And what that means is, if you take something real simple, and I think, excuse me, most people know what curls are. If you don't know what a curl is, you're standing up, you have your hand your your arms to your sides, your palms facing forward, and you lift your palm up towards your shoulder. Okay, that's a curl. Now we talked about that as far as bicep innervation and tricep deregulation, if you will. Okay, so what you do in this case is, is you have a weight that you can basically do one rep without losing your form, right? Because we can all, like, bend back, use our waist and throw our arm up, and that's more weight than than you should really do. I mean, you can tweak yourself and all that, but one rep max is maintaining form, and it's kind of like the most weight that you can do now with a one rep max. When we change, we can change the size of the muscles, and that's hypertrophy, or we can increase or improve strength or endurance. So if you take a one rep max, you take 30 to 80% of that. If you do a higher amount of your one rep max, let's say over 50% 50 to 80% and we're talking curls, and it works for other muscles too. But curls is the best example, because people understand that. And you do 50 to 80% of that weight, you do minimum amount of reps, maybe five, and that builds strength. If you take the lower end, 30 to 50% of that you can you can whip that up a lot. You can go 10 to 15, you know, 20 reps of that, doing that type of exercise builds hypertrophy, which is the muscle growth, which is what looks better? I may have in here somewhere, but since we're on it. I want to talk about the fact that we've all seen Mr. Universe, Mr. America and all that. Okay, that's hypertrophy to the max. Now those people are strong. Don't Don't get me wrong about that. However, they're not the strong men out there. If you've ever seen a strong man competition, nobody that looks like Mr. Universe is lifting. They've all their muscles strength is is the main thing, but it muscle strength doesn't lead to hypertrophy. So if you're in the gym and you want to look good, right, you take a lower amount of weight and do a lot of reps. If you want to build that strength, then you take a higher amount, percentage of your one rep max, and you lift that the best thing to do as we age, we're not in high school here, the best thing that we do is a combination of both, and I will go into a little bit on how that feeds into testosterone and that type of thing as well. Okay, and I'm off topic here, glycolysis, how muscles utilize energy, and muscles are the most expensive. They are metabolically demanding, right? It is the most metabolically demanding system we have. Some people will argue that it's the brain, and that could be true, and especially in people who don't use their muscles, it's the brain. The glycolysis of the glucose breaks down into pyruvate, and that generates two units of ATP when you combine pyruvate with oxygen. Now you're really using the ATP within the in the my car in the bio of mitochondria, and that is maximum amount of health right there. And people, this is kind of funny. People with more muscle can eat more, and they actually have to to maintain that muscle, right? You can't starve and build muscle here. This is something that we've all heard about, lactic acid. Throw that out, all right? It's lactate itself. So when there's insufficient oxygen, pyruvate turns into lactate, and that's what causes the burn. It's the lack of oxygen in the muscle, right? So this is a nice Pearl here. 10% of the time you should exercise to the point of feeling the lactate burn, because that's what increases the muscle size 10% of the time. And what does lactate do? It's a buffer against acidity, and it also it's a fuel. So if you are lifting something and you start to feel the burn, the lactate says you can do a little bit more. It allows you to now, this is important, not only in the gym, but this is important if you've got to carry something, and it's critical, and you got to move it from point A to point B, and it's heavy and it burns you don't drop it. The lactate allows you to continue on. A little bit more, right, which I think is just extremely important. And then, of course, it at the side of the burn. It acts as a hormone. And this is kind of interesting. Lactate sends positive signals to your heart, your liver and your brain. Now, what is that all about? Well, to your heart, because you're going to want to pump more oxygen. When your lactate is kicked in, it's very strong your liver. Okay? So you've got glycogen storage there. You're going to need that to help move, and then your brain, right? You're going to, you're going to stimulate the brain to to continue on, to tell yourself, stop, go, whatever, whatever you need to do. So it's extremely important to understand what lactate does and and you're not when you lift or you move things or something, or you're walking, carrying something heavy, it's not lactic acid, and you're trying to get rid of the lactic acid. That's just a that's a misnomer. The neuromuscular connection will go quickly through this, because I've talked about some of this, but the people that that when you keep in mind that

Speaker 2  56:41
your muscles can get bigger and they always get stronger, but strength doesn't mean bigger muscles that we talked about that, so it's nerve isolation versus nerve distribution. And here we do want muscles to get stronger as we age, because we don't want sarcopenia, okay? And then, plus, it messes up your posture. We've all seen older people that are hunched over that, have you know, horrible posture or whatever. That's lack of muscle. If it's not a skeletal abnormality, we're not talking about certain abnormalities. We can all point out exceptions to these things, but in general, that comes from years of not doing enough exercise in the correct position. And again, I'm not talking about a pathological condition here. The other thing that I think is extremely interesting here, as far as neuromuscular connection is, and that's the Henneman size principle. And very simply, what this means is you have a glass of water sitting there, and your brain tells your muscles how much to use. You don't pick up that glass and throw the water in your face, because you lift it really quickly. Your brain says, Don't do that. You only use a certain amount of motor neurons that are necessary for the action that you are doing. And we've all seen things where you go to pick up something and your brain tells you, oh, it should be this heavy, and you go to lift it, and you go, Whoa, oh, God, no, it's heavier. And then you got to kind of reset and go, Okay, I need to muscle up a little bit on this. Well, that's the Henneman size principle, and it's a conservation of energy. You don't overuse energy when you're lifting things. And that's normal usage. We're not talking again about, you know, weight lifting or something like that. And then there's the three major stimuli that dictate how muscles can change that stress, tension and damage. In red, the two most critical issues we're talking about here are how best to train and how best to eat. Those, as I say, are minefield topics. You know, you you get in with a group of people and no two people, you know, 10 people, no two people are going to agree on how to eat and how to train. They're all they're all different. Now this, this myosin actin filaments. The balloon theory is something like, you're you're holding a handful of balloons, but they're not all at the same length. You got the strings, and you have different lengths. And that's kind of like your your your miles and and then the actin is like the balloons. And then by, by activating the muscles, the balloons can get bigger, and that's how your muscles grow. And this is I'm citing down here at the bottom. I don't know if you people have heard of Dr Andrew Huberman. I'm going to talk about that a little bit. He's professor of neuroscience and ophthalmology at Stanford, and they do all this research in this, and he's kind of the pioneer in this neuromuscular type of stuff. That leads us to mile kinds. And I will say that, Dr maledes, and then I think also, well, Dr Clearfield, to some degree, talked a little bit about this. So we're not going to go too deeply into this. But you know, the this PowerPoint thing is available. If anybody wants any of these slides, I can singularly send them, or you can look at it, and you can come back through. But I'm going to pull a Dr halasa here and buzz through a lot of this stuff pretty quickly. My all kinds of proteins, and they actually they play a very critical role in all kinds of physiological processes, including metabolism, inflammation and even brain function, which will get on there. My all kinds of secreted by muscle cells and myocytes in response to muscle contractions. Now, people that don't do any and when I say exercise or I say lifting, please, don't picture being in a gym, please picture daily life, because that's what we're talking about. You know, can can you get on an airplane and lift, you know, your carry on over your head and put it in the overhead compartment. Okay? This is daily life stuff. Some people can't do that, right? And so that that needs to improve. And the myokines, basically are signaling molecules, and they influence other cells and organs through different mechanisms. Now think about this. They have autocrine effects, which they act on the cells that actually produce the myokines, then the paracrine effects, which is other cells in the muscle, and then the endocrine effects, they release chemicals that have effect on distant tissues and organs through the bloodstream. So you begin to see, you know, how important this is and I lost my cursor. Okay, I think I lost my cursor. What does that mean? Clearfield when I can't find my cursor. Let's see what happens. Okay, I guess it's there. All right, here's myokine release. This is a slide that I've seen before, I think many people have seen before. And again, there's only two things I want to point out here. Well, three, BDNF is critical as well. Interleukin six is a double edged sword. Irisin, you can see increases muscle mass, hypertrophy and fatty acid oxidation. The one that's a little bit different is myostatin, that increases atrophy and decreases muscle mass. Now, why do we have that? Well, all of this stuff that I'm talking about really is based on balance, total balance, if you didn't have that, if every time you took a drink and you lifted your your drink up to your mouth, you're going to start building muscle. And can you imagine what that would be like if you if you basically never stopped, and that's that's kind of, this is kind of a buffer system on that. So in the next few slides, we'll talk about here at the bottom, like improving metabolism, reducing inflammation, cardiovascular health, stronger bones, better brain function and even cancer protection, regular resistance and aerobic training maximize these effects, and that supports the long term health and longevity, which is what we're looking for. So the first one a doc, real quick.

Speaker 3  1:02:56
Yes, sir, yes, yes. This is why a lot of the senior citizens that you see are walking every day, are doing okay and doing better, because just like you said, they're not going to a gym, but they're just exercise. They're just walking, they're just moving.

Speaker 2  1:03:14
Yes, yes and, and remember now that's the third triad of of what the the muscles do, and, and as Dr Patel said, we're talking, if we talk about the upper motor neurons, we need to combine that, because walking does a lot of things, right? Phenomenal things, phenomenal things for longevity, but we need to include the upper motor neuron system to make sure, to, let's say, stave off things like ALS. So

Speaker 3  1:03:44
would that? So would that mean walking with carrying like, yes, five or five pound weights. You

Speaker 2  1:03:50
got it. You got it. And every now and then, curl it, lift it over your head. 100% Joel, right? That's a great example. That's 100% is, that is what should be done. And I'll, I'll digress here to also tell you there's something called the farmer's carry, which is, I don't know if you've heard of this, right? You grab heavier weights or heavier objects, bags of groceries with bricks in a bat, whatever you can do, and just walk with it. And it is phenomenal for your health. Phenomenal. Got you, got you. Okay, so metabolic effects, you know, and enhanced insulin sensitivity. And how many lectures have we had about that where insulin sensitivity is one of the keys? And here's, here's our buddy, irisin again, because he's improved glucose uptake. We'll get into a couple of slides here on the glute or translocation, not a lot, but it

Speaker 10  1:04:45
reduces. Greg, can I interrupt you one minute? We as a physicians in the office? What can we do intermittently that we don't have, at least, at least, I'm not an Iron Man or iron woman. But what should we do so that we can, we can be more fit, and just like you mentioned that, oh, put that bag in the plane. I can never do it,

Speaker 2  1:05:15
so we gotta talk. Yeah, okay, no, you know, and forgive me. I'm so glad you said that, because I had that as part of my introduction and I skipped it. And that is those people who went to school back in the day where your value. Part of your value was based on abusing yourself, not having sleep, eating on the go, going in the nurses station, getting some donuts or whatever. It really caused people to go downhill rapidly. So as you say, we have to do something very simply to start. And I have things that we can do to start that we can talk about, but in the office between patients, do if you can do a squat, or two or 10, do it. If you can do half a squat, do it. If you can. And this is critical. This is critical. This is critical. And I'll go back to Dr Clearfield in your lecture. I re listened to your lecture, and the question was asked about that thing, about tensing muscles and then letting go, tensing muscles and letting go, what that is, is basically isometrics. And at any time in the office, you can do things like that I get, hopefully you can see me, but you can clasp your hands like this, and for three to six seconds, pull as hard as you can. You don't have to pull extreme as hard as you can. Okay, do that. That's an isometric hold, and that stimulates muscles like crazy. So in between patients, do that a couple of times for a minute. You can push your hands together as hard as you can possibly do. And I'm telling you, they're talking about do it for six seconds and do it three times. This takes no time. Squats. If you can't do a squat, then bend your knees, maybe lean against the wall for 10 to 30 seconds. You can do all of this in the office, and you're not taking up time. One thing I always suggest to people that you know from our you know field where you know we don't do what we should. But I'm telling you, your patients are looking at you. You know this. And if you look healthy, they're more apt to follow you. They understand your knowledge and your ability to communicate health things to them, but they're looking at you. And when you start to look better. Your skin looks better, your energy is better. You are healthier. They're looking at it, and they're seeing it when you brush your teeth. Do do a squat or two or five, whatever you can do. You brush your teeth a couple times a day. Do it, and you will eventually get stronger and get all the benefits here, right? It is not time consuming, and that's why I said in the beginning, you ask your patients and yourself, Oh, God, I am so busy. You know, single mom got the kids got all this kind of stuff. How much time can you give? Can you give me three minutes a day, right? Two minutes a day. And we can come up with something that can start you on your way. And I hope, Dr Patel, I hope that answers you.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:45
Thank you, sure.

Speaker 2  1:08:49
Okay, so glute four, we'll talk a little bit about that translocation. There's really an interesting topic with glute four. Really interesting. And then, of course, fat metabolism, and there's my buddy, irisin, again, stimulates conversion of white fat to brown fat. You know, what else does that cold showers you get? You know? And I say cold showers, because not everybody has got the time, the energy or the will to get a cold plunge. Now, maybe Hartman does, but you know, you don't have to have an ice plunge to do this. When you get done with your shower at the very end. You know, do do as cold as you can stand it for a little bit, and it it actually will stimulate the brown fat from the white fat, brown fat. What's the difference brown fat and white fat. Brown fat is full of mitochondria. That's why it's brown okay. And then myonecton enhances the fatty acid uptake and improves lipid metabolism. And then the anti inflammatory and immune benefits. Haven't we all figured out that inflammation is is kind of like one of the hallmarks of many of the diseases and many of the problems that we have, right inflammation? Well, okay, we can reduce chronic inflammation. And remember, we're talking about myokine release from skeletal muscle by using them not sitting around, right? So il six exercise induced has anti inflammatory effects, and it lowers the risk of chronic diseases like cardiovascular, obesity and all of that, arthritis, also immune system modulation. Myokines help mobilize immune cells, and then also, one of the best things here is going to be the I'm sorry I'm sorry, I'm trying to find my cursor the anti in tumor. It promotes anti tumor environment. And this is another one of those things that we talk talk about a minefield topic, because now somewhere we're going to get into a little bit of mTOR cardiovascular benefit. Well, we know this. We inherently know this exercising or moving around improves heart function. We know that improves circulation. And as I always used to tell people, I don't care what supplements you take, if you have poor circulation, you're not getting the maximum benefits. You got to have circulation. You've got to get this stuff to all the tissues, and that's where the exercise helps do that. And then, of course, risk, reduce risk of atherosclerosis. And here's our buddy, irisin again. And then, by circulation, we know helps prevent the plaque buildup. Now, if we combine this and Dr Patel, you know this so well, if we combine this type of thing, improving the circulation with detoxing, I believe it's the mercury that helps hold plaque together in the arteries. If we decrease the mercury and increase the circulation, we have really, really got a leg up on, after all, bone health. That's the irisin again, and I didn't even put it in the slide. Uh, muscle, muscle growth. Oh, I'm sorry, muscle and bone health the oh, there it is. I'm sorry. Under the bone strength and density. Irisin does that promotes osteoblasts, okay? And a reduced risk of osteoporosis. How many people do we know? And we always think about the ladies, right of osteoporosis, we don't think about the fact that a men have this problem, and B, sedentary young adults have this problem as well. You're losing not only muscle mass, you're losing bone density, and that is a fast ticket to a sarcopenia, which is aging, and then brain health. My favorite is BDNF. I will tell you, from personal experience. Now, I don't know if there's anybody out here that are runners, and they talk about the runners high but I will tell you, not every time, but after a workout, a weight training, resistant training, thing for myself, my mood really picks up. But that's not the only thing. It improves the BDNF improves neuroplasticity, memory and learning. Remember this neuroplasticity, okay, memory and learning. Strengthening the neuro connections, we do not grow more neurons. As a matter of fact, the human brain has been shown to kind of resist having too many more neurons, because the human brain doesn't exactly know what to do with them. It's overload. So what we want to do is strengthen what we have. And then, as I mentioned here, the mood enhancement linked to increased dopamine and serotonin. The dopamine release comes from thinking, you know, I do need to exercise a little bit because I feel better. Okay, that releases the dopamine that tells you I'm doing a good thing. And then myokines and brain function. And then, of course, you know, BDNF, which we which we just talked about. The other thing is, physical exercise has been shown to elevate cerebral levels of VEGF, vascular endofield endothelial growth factor, and it promotes angiogenesis in the brain, okay, and enhancing blood supply and potentially supporting neuroplasticity. Okay? Why do we want angiogenesis in the brain? Well, obviously, I mean that that's how we're going to get our nutrients and everything to the brain, which which we need for our cognitive health that that is pretty critical for those of you who are thinking about and it's always on the back of my mind, people thinking about cancer, okay, we don't like angiogenesis and tumors and all that kind of stuff. We're going to see that not all things that we do to stimulate mTOR and things like that directly go to cancer cells. And as Dr Clearfield lecture pointed out, we've got mTOR complex one, mTOR complex two, which do different things. And I next week, we're going to somebody's going to discover mTOR complex, you know, see three, you know, I mean, it just goes on and on to the value and then, you know, PubMed type of thing. I put this in here for people who like to see this and like to read the the abstract that's there. You'll see a few of these in here, but I'm going to tell you that I hang my hat a lot on some of the the information I get from podcasts. Here's our mind field cancer prevention and anti tumor effects. Myokine suppressed tumor growth, okay. And this the the secreted protein the acidic, okay. The spark is also involved in this. And then our buddy, irisin, um, some reference journals. Case you want to click on these kind of things, it tells you kind of more specifically areas that I've talked about glute for, you know, for time sake, we're not going to go too much into this or too much into into mTOR, but I do want to tell you that glute for is an amazing type of thing when you are exercising your muscles. And we don't need to go into all of this kind of stuff, but I will tell you, when you're exercising your muscles, glute, for any in the transport system, is in vesicles that are transported to the cells, which help the insulin go into the cells, and then they recycle, then they leave the cell membrane or cell surface and go back in, into storage vesicles. But not all of it does. You have some glute for that stays on the surface of the cells, and that's why, when you exercise, you can drive some of the insulin into the muscle cells that it's needed for growth. You don't have to eat or carbo load before you exercise in order to do that, because you already have the transport system there, and it's going to pull the insulin that you have. So as as as Doctor Joseph says, let's think about that. Okay, so now you we have problems with too much insulin in the body. Well, by exercising, the insulin that's there already is going to be transported into the cells. We don't need to have more. So now we're lowering the floating insulin, right? So that is basically helping our overall health and decreasing insulin resistance. So again, using our muscles is going to be key to stopping insulin resistance in kind of a, I want to say, a roundabout way. Okay, and it in it. And glute four, again, stays there independent of insulin, it's going to stay there, if insulin is not the only thing that causes that transport, shall we say. And then here's this little article again, in these two purple highlights. And if you look at the second one down there, and I'll read it while acute regulation of muscle glucose uptake relies on glute, four translocation glucose uptake also depends upon muscle glute for expression, which is increased following exercise, and that's just what we were talking about, protein. Okay, roughly 60% of bottles water. Half of the remaining 40% is protein. And I was not a math major, but that, I think works out to about 20%

Speaker 2  1:18:39
and then proteins are the master regulator of all that's happening in the body. I mean, everything, everything is proteins, okay, balances the hormones, supports energy production, cell to cell communication, antibodies, this type of protein, and we all know hormones are insulin and things like that. Thyroid Hormone hormones are made from amino acids, and they regulate blood glucose. We all know this kind of thing, bone health and all of that. Metabolic rate, okay? And then, of course, the brain uses protein rich foods to produce neurotransmitters, another reason why we need adequate protein in our diet. If we don't get the adequate protein, we are losing out on all of this stuff. And as I go through some of the benefits, then I'm going to hit things like sarcopenia, and it's going to show you the negative of all the benefits that we just talked about. We won't go too deeply into this. Leucine is the big boy, okay, loose a branch chain amino acid, and it's a critical role in stimulating mechanistic target of rapamycin. I think in here, sometimes I call it mammalian target of rapamycin, because the originator, as Dr Clearfield, was talking about that scientist that found it on on Easter Island, Rapa Nui called it that mammalian. And then they found out, well, maybe it's not only mammals. Okay, so where am I? Leucine activates the the mTOR. See one in skeletal muscles. It's a combination of nutrient sensing mechanism and, of course, crosstalk with insulin. All these things work together in balance, balance, balance, and our effect on skeletal muscle is muscle protein synthesis. That's where the protein are synthesized from the muscles. That's how we are. You know, building other tissues in the body. Proteins are doing that. Whether you're you're repairing something, you have a cut, you have a broken bone or something, you've got to have the proteins in there to heal and then enhance muscle hypertrophy and recovery after resistance. And I'm going to tell you right now that, yes, genetics does come into this. We've all seen people that you know, you might have seen in high school or whatever genetic unit, you know, these genetic freaks that are just muscular people, just because they are okay, that's wonderful. But we can all, you know, kind of emulate, or maybe get to that point through exercising. But two things that are really guided by genetics as far as muscle goes, are fatigue and recovery. You can fatigue out, and that is a genetic type of thing. Yes, you can kind of overcome some of that, but we've all seen people who you know, oh man, you fatigue. You Oh god, you get winded easily. That can be genetic as well as a lack of training, of course. And then recovery, recovery time is genetically mediated. It also is based on rest and nutrients and all that kind of stuff. But genetics guides the recovery from the get go and then protein and skeletal muscle. We're not going to get too much into this. This is where we get into the weeds with with the leucine uptake and kind of, kind of hit the mTOR pathway and all that kind of stuff, right? But leucine uptake is extremely critical. And there's a whole bunch of the rag GP, GTPase complex, and all of this kind of stuff is a switch to activate mTOR. See one mTOR complex, one mTOR complex, one and complex two do slightly different things. And when you're targeting these for therapeutic activity, as in cancer, then you're not always targeting every mTOR system in the body. There's no way you want to suppress every mTOR system in the body. We can talk about people that say longevity and aging. Oh, yeah, yeah. Give rapamycin so you can inhibit mTOR well, that can be a useful tool. But as Dr Clearfield lecture pointed out, I believe it was his which says, you know, the autophagy and cell cycling can be based on your sleep wake cycle and when you eat. I think that. Dr Clearfield, I think that was in your in your talk, and that that's very critical. We don't always want to suppress. MTOR, I will tell you this, no serious bodybuilder and, and these are people, and I'm not talking about exercise guys. I'm talking about serious bodybuilders. Will ever take rapamycin. They just won't do it. And I lost my cursor again, and then there at the bottom. Okay, so we're talking about the insulin factor in leucine, and can enhance the signaling through the insulin pathway. And there's the science stuff on that. If people are interested, you can check that out. Here's our minefield topic of mTOR, okay, and it regulates, very simply, cell growth and metabolism. That's that's what we need, and it's a balance. You can't live without mTOR. You don't want too much, you don't want too little. You got to have a balance. And that's why we don't do anything. 100% of the time you don't sit there and exercise 100% of the time you don't eat 27 meals a day. You balance it out, and hopefully people have the right leptin levels to where you stop eating. Okay, and so we do need the mTOR. We can't consider that a bad guy like otherwise we wouldn't have it. And then down here, nutrient sensing. Okay, so that's the mTOR. See one growth factor signaling, right? Growth factors and all this kind of stuff. This complex. It shows this, this rev, I guess we will call it, relation to energy status and am PK regulation. And then when the cellular energy is the ATP levels are low, AMPK, right? The kinase is activated. And then here's the mechanism that shows you know how that works and how we actually can conserve energy. Remember, our body does a real nice job of conserving energy. And again, that's the the Henneman size principle. We don't overuse energy. Our brain tells us to conserve energy when we need it. And of course, our brain knows we're going to sleep. We get tired, and we need some of that energy for autophagy and whatever else happens when we're sleeping. This is something that I really want to include here, because I don't want people to think mTOR is one thing does one thing, either good or bad. I'm not going to go into too much detail here for actually, for time sake, but there are cellular differences that we have here,

Speaker 2  1:25:33
and mTOR see one primarily controls cell growth, and c2, is cell survival. So there's a little bit of different thing here. We're going to want a little bit of both of this kind of inhibition and cancer type of of situation, right? Because we don't want a lot of cell growth, and we don't want a lot of that type of cell survival. So mTOR is, is going to be prevalent in, in kind of our, our treatment of that, which means caloric restriction in cancer patients, right? Don't, don't give them a bunch of insulin, don't give them a bunch of sugar. I mean, that that's, that's pretty obvious here. Okay, moving on next slide here, same thing differently in different cells, endothelial cells, cell survival, okay, and this is important for microvascular repair and angiogenesis. We need angiogenesis in our body, as you know, because first of all, anytime you are increasing your muscle, you've got to have blood going there for oxygen and nutrients, so mTOR is what helps with that. So obviously, you're not going to inhibit. Want to inhibit mTOR to the max, and then think you're going to get stronger or be able to do more. Can you, you know, can you lift your grandchild out of the crib? Can you do that? Can you bend over and pick up your grandchild. Okay, you need mTOR to feed your muscles so you can do this. And then cancer cells, as we talked about right there. And there's something about, I'm not an expert on this, this quiescent cells, where mTOR can actually turn off cells without killing them so they can be used later on. I think this is something that is pretty interesting, and maybe someday, you know, I'll try to get into that to see what we can do, especially in cancer, to turn off some of these growth cells and then T cells, right regulatory T cells, and all this kind of stuff. MTOR signaling is crucial for differentiation and function. So again, mTOR acts differently in different cells, and this is a pretty good summary here. It's conserved protein, but it's it's activity in specific function has to do with the type of cell that is it's involved in, and the complexes and everything that are involved in that cell. Okay, they do different things, metabolic effective muscles, gosh, for time's sake, we can go through this. I want to, want to and this is the fun part. This is where I really want to go. Okay, what we have here is, is resistance training, and this is the key to metabolic effects. Okay, there are a couple of different ways, three right body or isometrics, bands, which you can use, and weights, and we'll talk just a little bit about that. And then I'm not going to read all this kind of stuff, but you can see here the things that we've kind of talked about and that I want to stress over and over and over, because, as I said, you know, and Doctor Patel, thank you for bringing it back to the beginning. I want all practitioners to understand the value of this, how critical it is, and that there is need to do this. Imparting this information to your patients and yourself is going to help your overall health. And if you're prescribing any type of drugs or anything like that. Okay, like, like, you know, you talk about anything statins or something, there are sites of action where you want these things to work. Statins are bad example. I'm sorry, but there are sites of action you want these things to work. But you know, these things go all over your body, you know, like you were talking about the ARBs, Dr Nario, they don't just go to the heart. They go all over the body. And the circulation kind of guides that kind of thing. So we need the metabolic benefits of the muscles to push all of this stuff, and it increases your base, basal metabolic rate. What is that? That is when you let's say you're doing nothing, right? How much of energy are you utilizing to just feed your muscles? The example is swimmers. Michael Phelps, if you know who that is, that guy had an incredible basic metabolic rate, he could be doing nothing, and he is burning through calories, right? So that is a critical thing, because otherwise, if you don't have a decent basal metabolic rate, you're leading to sarcopenia, improved insulin sensitivity we talked about enhanced glucose uptake and storage, fat oxidation, lipid regulation and regulation of inflammatory markers. We kind of touched a little bit on that support for mitochondrial function. Yes, amino acid reservoir. Okay, so now you were eating things, and we're building amino acids. They don't all automatically go to where they're supposed to go within the next 12 seconds, right? There's a reservoir, and the muscles hold those amino acids there for when they're needed, for when you break your arm, right? You've got amino acids there that are just going to fly to try to help fix that. And if you don't have that, then it takes longer to heal. I mean, why? Why do you think that athletes that get hurt, that break a finger, break they come back right? And they do that through training and through strength? Other people that don't do that can take forever to heal, and we know that in older people, right, fall down, break hip, whatever you may not recover. Why? Because you don't have the muscle strength to recover. And as hormone regulation we talked about. And I want to say one thing here, which I think is pretty important, and that's for those of you who actually want to get serious about exercising. There are limits. If you exercise approximately an hour or less, you're stimulating testosterone. If you are overdoing it, these people that are going, Yeah, I spent two hours in the gym or I, you know, I do this for a couple of hours. Hour and a half, your testosterone level starts to decrease because cortisol takes over, because your body says you're stressing me out, you're not building me up, you're stressing me out. So there is such a thing as over exercising, okay, and then improved Aging and Longevity and sarcopenia. That's sarcopenia, atrophied muscle. It's, it's lack of of muscle and lack of muscle activity. It's not just decreased muscle mass, it's decreased muscle function as well. And here we go. You know, after certain age of 3040, whatever, everybody's different, we lose three to 5% of muscle mass per decade, and it's worse after age 60. But keep in mind, this is not a sad story completely. You can build this stuff back. You can stop this, and you can and you can reverse the muscle aging process. There's a lot of things we can't reverse in aging, but you can reverse the muscle aging process at any age with any level of strength, and the the worse you are. I hate to say it that way, but the worse you are, the faster and more you gain when you start. So in other words, if you don't do a lot of weight training, or you don't lift bags of grocery you don't do any of that stuff. You start doing that, and your improvement level, your percent improvement, is extremely high. The person who's extremely strong has got to really work to increase 125, 10% it is difficult to do that, right? So, this is the encouraging thing for your patients, right? It's never too late. Start now. Start slow, right? Start low. Go slow. That old adage, it works and it helps, and their outcomes will be amazingly improved just by doing this. And then, okay, so here's all the things that I told you, I told you the good things. Here's all the bad things that that that happens with sarcopenia, alright? So you know, we're not going to go to blasting into this. And it goes on and on, okay, even all the way down to Dr

Speaker 2  1:34:11
Clearfield altered hormonal regulation, age related hormone changes. And like I said, you start doing some exercise, you're going to change the testosterone level. So the next time you do a test on somebody who has decided that they're going to work a little bit on their muscles, you're going to see a change. Is it after a week, I don't know, three weeks, six week, everybody's different, six months. And it depends upon how much, how often that you're doing this type of thing, but you're going to change your hormone levels. And that's cortisol as well. That's insulin as well. It's not just testosterone and, you know, an estrogen and all that kind of stuff. And then another one, of course, gut microbio dysbiosis. So again, only thing I can think of is, if we can get exercise in a pill. Look at all the stuff that it does. And then, okay, a couple of reference articles, metabolic syndrome and sarcopenia. Yes, you want to see that inflammation roles in aging and sarcopenia, right? More inflammation? You wouldn't think so. But as we all know, some inflammation is good, the inflammation that you're going to get the chronic inflammation from sitting around is not so good. We know that the fun part resistance training. Okay? On the left hand side, we've got an older gentleman who may be holding this pose. Okay? That right there is called yielding isometrics. He's letting the world and gravity affect his muscles on the right with the bands. If you're stretching and you're holding that band out completely, and you're not going back and forth, right? That's another form of isometrics that's called overcoming isometrics. Overcoming isometrics is where you walk up to a wall and you try to push that wall down right now, what that does is that locks in your muscles, and muscle improvement in strength or ability to do anything else that we've talked about is guided by what we call time under tension. Right flex your muscles. And so if you're doing these bands, or you're walking up to a wall and you're pushing on that wall, you are locking in your connective tissue, your your ligaments aren't shearing, your tendons aren't shearing. They're locked and they're not being forced to stretch. Your muscles are doing the work, and that's why isometrics are so great, and that's why cavemen used to roll boulders in front of the cave. Okay, that's kind of an isometric type of thing right. Lower Left is muscle training with weights right and and in the center is the same type of thing. And on the right, that can be either one. They all can. I mean, if this gentleman in the center bottom just held those weights there, that's isometrics. Okay, overcoming isometrics is pushing against the wall, turning around, putting your back against the wall, and squatting down and holding it right. That's the other type of isometrics that's yielding isometrics, you're letting the environment force your muscles and resistance training is medicine. Okay, notice this is in sports medicine and in 2012 so this is not new stuff. It's just people like us don't focus on it enough. We're so focused on everything else having to do with health that we don't look at the overall health that strength or muscles provide us. And I'm telling you, no matter what you do for your patients, if you're increasing their ability to use their muscles, you're getting them better without giving them things resistance training and metabolic health, okay, we've covered all of this kind of stuff, right? Resistance training may assist in prevention type two diabetes, all of these kind of things, cardiovascular health, all of this kind of stuff. There's just some percentages here, on on the on the one, on the right, you know, for kind of reference purposes, hypertrophy, I'm going to go fast through here. Hypertrophy is, is growth. It's, it's muscle, muscle growth, and it's introduction to skeletal muscle hypertrophy, resistance training, okay? And that's muscle protein synthesis. Also remember the key, or the the best way to do to get hypertrophic is a small amount of weight, lot of reps. And again, you can lift anything at home. You can do anything. I remember in the olden days we would sit up on a countertop, put weights in a bag, stick your feet through the handles, and just lift your legs up. Okay, that that's the cheesy, cheap way to do it. But it works. It's just do it. I think we've all heard that three mechanisms for muscle growth in response to resistance training, mechanical tension, all of this. Here's the mTOR. See one pathway muscle damage and muscle stress. This is the way that you build muscles. We all have understood about they, they say, Oh, you gotta tear muscles down to build them up. Well, that's micro tears and muscle fibers. You're not, you're not tearing muscles. You just kind of, kind of doing these little micro tears which cause the growth to come back. So what is that? That hormesis, right? What doesn't kill you makes you stronger. So as you, as you kind of lift, it's not killing you, but it is making you stronger. And then here's more resistance training, and there's training variables. Now this is what I covered before, because I wanted to make sure I got to it. And this is the slide that talks about the one rep max, right? Moderate to heavy loads. And remember, it's like 30 to 85% of your one rep max is where you decide. I threw in a picture of Dr Nario there on the right for you. And what we have here is somebody who does both, looks strong but is also hypertrophic. Remember, hypertrophy will increase strength, but strength doesn't always make you muscle bound. And believe me, I've had some clients who say, Well, I don't want to go to the gym because I don't want to look like that. And I said, Dude, you're 60 years old. You have any idea how many hours a day you need to spend in the gym for the next 25 years to look like that. That isn't just happening, right? It takes effort. And I like to say this, and I stole this from Dr Lane Norton. I don't know if anybody heard of him. You probably haven't. He says the magic is in the the things that you refuse to do, right? So if you want muscle strength and you want muscle health, the magic comes from the work, and a lot of people refuse or dodge the work. Well, can I do it just once a week? Well, you can. You're going to get better, but you're not going to get the total benefit here that I'm hoping that everybody does okay. So it's important, as we talked about, the rep range c6, to 12 reps hypertrophy, less than six with greater weight is strength, and then rest periods are critical, critical, because you're going to overload your muscles, and you're not going to get the benefit if you don't rest in between sets, in between days, don't go lifting weights every day of the week. That's just not smart. And I want to tell you here, we're not covering cardiovascular training at all. Okay, I'm not talking about that, but I will tell you that I've never seen a marathoner that looks healthy. Okay, that's too much. And the brain, as Dr Huberman talks about, the brain, will tear down your muscles, because it says, I need all of this energy because I'm running all the time, and so you're going to become sarcopenic by doing all of this. These are marathoners, or people that do this to the excess you you run, you bicycle, you do yoga, you do these things on a kind of a routine basis. Fantastic. Included, you need resistance and non resistance training for optimal health, you you've got to get your cardiovascular system going. And then, of course, what does that do? Improves your circulation and and everything is better, right? Training variables we're getting here to the end here a frequency. How often do you do this? Okay, injury or current, current or previous avoidance. Avoid the energy as energy, the the injury as you age. How do you do that? How do you make sure that you're if you decide to do a little bit of workout, how do you avoid that? Isometrics first, right? Let your muscles know what's happening. Let your connective tissue stabilize your tendons and your ligaments. This is what's happening. I'm going to be using my muscles. So don't freak out and pop a ligament, okay, pop a tendon. Do isometrics to get yourself going a little bit. And of course, it's based on, you know, how often is based on age and gender? Your high school kid lift weights every day. I don't care. And of course, the goals is desired shape and the status. Remember, I mentioned current shape. Everybody is in the right shape right now to start a program if you haven't, if you don't,

Speaker 3  1:43:55
Hey, Doc, yes, sir, one of the things I was taught was your body weight. Take care of your own body weight. You don't have to go to a gym, you don't have to deal with all the crap. Just take care of your own body weight. Deal with your body weight. If you could stand up on a wall and do your, you know, push ups, or you could do regular push ups, or you could do sit ups, whatever. Yes, do your own body weight. And it's, it's, it's not easy. No,

Speaker 2  1:44:29
no, it's not. And it's another great point. Joel, you mentioned push ups. Hey, get in the push up position, and don't do a push up, just get in the position and hold it for 1020, 30 seconds. Right now, you're using your own body weight, that's isometrics, and you're improving yourself. And you mentioned this, your own body weight. I didn't mention this is and this is important. Take your body weight goal. If you weigh 250 and you want to weigh 200 if you weigh 200 and you want to weigh 175 take your goal weight, and that basically guides you to one gram of protein per day per goal weight, wow. So if you want to weigh 175 pounds, you need to eat 175 grams of protein. Whoa, okay, a piece of chicken the size of your hand is probably 30 plus grams of protein. So now we're talking about eating three times a day something like that. Or what do we do? What else do we do? Joel protein shakes. But remember, you're not getting 100% of the protein that's in there, so take that into consideration too. But I'm glad you mentioned. Use your own body weight, and I've got it. I've got a thing on here that talks a little bit about that. Now I want to hit this other we talked about recovery times, other variables for optimal results. Sleep, critical, just critical. I mean, it's so many things. And Dr Clearfield, you, you did a fabulous job. And you talked about the, you know, the time, restricted. What do we call that intermittent, fast intermittent? Okay, so I feel there's something different. Intermittent Fasting is not time restricted eating. Intermittent fasting is going 24 hours without eating. That's a fast. Time restricted eating is going 20 hours, 16 hours, 12 hours without eating. That's not a fast okay? And there's a lot of benefits to everything, but that time restricted eating, I think, is, is extremely important for autophagy, extremely important. But here's the kicker, and this is why it's different for everybody. And it's a balance. If you don't eat for 20 hours in four hours, how are you gonna get 100 plus grams of protein? Right? So what do you do? Variant. Vary it. You can go 20 off for on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, Tuesday, Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday. You might not do that. Maybe cut it to 12, but then you got 12 hours of eating the protein. And remember, when you eat the protein and stuff. It doesn't just go away. Your body will store this stuff so you can do high protein on certain days of the week. And maybe you adjust your workout schedule based on how you feel, or your workout schedule, your exercise your isometric schedule, because I'm really sensitive to what Dr Patel said, really sensitive to this, because I am not talking about going to the gym. I'm talking about between patients and doing some ice roads before you go into a room, stand there and push on the doorway. See if you can push the doorway out. I do my isometrics in a doorway, that's how I do it. And then chair sit, that's how I do isometric and they've got phenomenal things called the ISO chain or ISO strap, where you lift against resistance and it doesn't move. Okay, they got great stuff on this kind of thing, but this is where we need to really focus on this type of thing. And so if you're going to do time restricted you're going to get that autophagy, but you may not get the protein, get the protein the next day. Do something like that. If you are a devotee of time restricted eating, that's great, but I'm going to mind you, you better make sure you're getting your protein and your nutrients, and we are not talking about carbs and fats. That's a whole other topic. I'm just talking protein right here and then, and it's there time restriction too. Supplements play a key in in this as as well, the schedules, the cold therapy we talked about. And, of course, breath work, very critical. Gotta have that oxygen. Okay, real fast, ladies. I'm not going to go too much into this, because it was kind of funny. A week or so ago, somebody did something on hormones. And then my topic came up, and Dr Nario said, Oh, we had something for the the men. Now, now, I'm sorry, we had something on the hormones for the women. Now, Quinn is going to talk about something for the men. Okay, women too. And I will tell you, Doctor Patel, if you have younger ladies in your practice that have issues, right? They need to also do the resistance training. And as it says, scientific truth about this is that not working out during certain phases of your cycle, the luteal phase, for example, right? When you know having to do with your cycling, and people say, Oh, you shouldn't work out, then, not true. Not true. Now, if you feel like crap, okay, that's different. Okay? That you know if your energy is gone or or whatever, or, you know, you've got cramps. Yeah, we're going to make adjustments for that. The point here is that ladies need to work out as well and don't, don't use anything as far as cycling as as any type of excuse. And of course, a lot of this stuff comes from Doctor Gabrielle Lyon, who's a genius in this type of thing. And on the bottom here, right the very bottom, okay, there's there's birth control, there's all that kind of stuff here that they do these studies on. It's incredible. So at the very bottom, where it says, So, while your feelings during certain parts of the cycle may change, well, you know, low mood, fatigue, all that, your muscles themselves remain remarkably resistant. And then here's a couple of references on that, you know, a few of them resistance training and all of that kind of stuff. This one used, I think it was like 43% of the participants were female, okay? And then here's what the research says for women, lift two to four times a week. Use, you know, moderate loads for hypertrophy. That's what we talked about. Don't change the program unless you have a good reason, fatigue, yes, injury over training, sure, but I might be in the luteal phase. That's not an excuse. Here's a whole little chart here on all the kind of stuff, you know, and it doesn't point to the the individual muscles, you know, like on the right side, if you want to say, protects against atherosclerosis, okay? It points to the heart. But otherwise, you know, it's just generally, this is what happens, and it kind of shows where your resistance or your your exercise training kind of, kind of comes in, okay, and then at the bottom, like delays aging. We haven't even talked about the psychological benefits of improving self esteem and all of that kind of stuff. You look better, you feel better, your mood is increased. Right? Muscles do all of this kind of stuff, right? You're, you're basically, I would say your spleen doesn't have a lot to do with your mood, but your muscles do. And

Speaker 2  1:52:22
then resistance training. Of these are pearls of wisdom, okay, prior to any workout regimen. And we have to say this, right, good to get cleared by a cardiologist to make sure your heart can stand it. And then I put this in here, you know, like they always say, you know, check with your doctor, get a physical from a physician who understands resistance training. I wouldn't go to somebody and ask them about an exercise program who doesn't seem to be into that and understand the benefit if they're obviously not practicing what they preach, right? Find a competent trainer. Uh, trainers really, really vary. One of the reasons I like the podcast, and I'll show you, you know, just point out a couple of these people, is there are people here with PhDs and Exercise Physiology, nutrition and all this kind of stuff, who have trained 10,000 people. And they will tell you some of the things that bad trainers do and some of the things that good trainers do. One big thing is people go, Well, I don't like to get sore. Well, no one does. A good trainer won't make you sore. The only reason that is good to be sore is to let you know if you're working out the muscles, the correct muscles for the exercise you're doing right. So if you're doing biceps and and the next day your lower back hurts, you're doing it wrong. Okay? So you need to make sure that your muscles are in tune to what you're doing, and good trainers can do that. And then the gray thing on the top, like I mentioned, always good to mix your workouts. Right by do, do the ISOs, bands, weights. Do it all. Vary it. Start logo, slow. Use proper form to avoid injury. There's plenty of YouTube stuff now that shows you proper form. Be very careful to make sure that you only see things from credentialed people, not the latest. You know, burn fat guy, you know the shred guy. Oh, here's how you do it. I've trained stars, yeah, yeah, I'm sure you have, but you don't have all the answers, and you never talk about form. And form is critical. So is flexibility and and then, of course, Mister Tony Horton. Don't know if you've ever heard of him. P 90x stretching will keep you young. You gotta stretch too. Don't forget stretching. So there's a lot of pearls here that we need. Okay, so age and shape is not an issue. These people on the left, I don't know how old you think they may be. I think you can understand that they're not in the greatest shape. They could use some muscle training. I do know that the guy on the right is in his 70s. I know that guy pretty well, and there's a little bit of muscle there, and hey, it's not five hours a week. Okay, it can be done. Okay, here's my podcast, guys. And I think this, this slide is very, very critical, this one and the next one, because these people know what the hell they're talking about. Jeff Cavaliere used to be the strength and physical therapist for the New York Mets, Dr Gabrielle Lyon, forever, strong. Great book. I got it. I read it. These mind pump guys, Sal de Stefano and his buddies here. These are the guys that have been training people for over 20 to 25 years. I mentioned. Dr Andrew Huberman and Huberman lab and his scientific approach to everything. On the left, Dr Mike Israel is a maniac. Was, you know, former Mr. University's PhD, Dr Andy Galpin, build strength and stamina. He did a series with Dr Huberman, who's on the left, there four or five part series on everything, including diet and how to train, when to train, and what to do. Michael Hearn, on the right is Titan. He is a former Mr. Universe. This guy is almost 60. People look at his skin. He's too muscular for my taste and most people's taste. But do you think he's healthier than the two people I showed before? I think so. Okay, and then isometric, Chris Thompson, the no limit squad, right? Here's a guy, and he's using what is known as an ISO chain. That thing doesn't move, that he's trying to curl, and he's trying to lift, and right? And I'm telling you, he isn't working out more than six to 10 minutes a day. And that's what happens. And then Dr Lane Norton, right, who says the magic is in the work you refuse to do. He studied under Dr layman at in Chicago. I think it was, it might be University of University of Illinois. Might be Champaign Urbana. Dr Lane Norton and Dr Gabrielle Lyons were all under him, learning, doing all of the researching and and doing experiments back in the day on how to do all this stuff. Here's my last thing, and this is, this is my favorite one. Okay, this is where we all find out where we are, okay. And this is the testing. Can you do this now? Or how about when you're 70 to 80 years old. I'm pretty sure you think that Michael Hearn could do this as he's almost 60 now, right. Can you lift 25 to 50 pounds over your head? That's everybody, okay. Can you carry at least two to four bags of groceries 50 to 100 feet? Man, I put in women there because we love the women. Want them strong. Want them healthy as well. Can you hold your breath more than 30 seconds? Can you stand on one leg for 30 seconds? And here's the fun one for all the men standing up. Can you see your belt buckle when standing up, looking down? Or do you see your belly? And remember, I don't know if Dr Clearfield said this or I heard this somewhere else, but I love this. The bigger the belly, the lower the testosterone, the higher the estrogen in men. Can you see your bill? And I'm not talking about a big cowboy belt bug, I'm talking about a regular Bill Bucha, okay, can you hold yourself up on a pull up bar for greater than 30 seconds? Dr malede has talked a big thing about grip strength, and there's a lot of information on grip strength, but it's not the only measure of health, overall health, it's it's very popular now to talk about grip strength, but I will tell you a personal example. My dad was a chef, and from lifting pots and pans, you do not want to shake that man's hand, he will crush you with his grip strength, but he was a smoker, and he was very, very unhealthy, and didn't have a lot of of, I would say, overall health, but boy, did he have grip strength. Okay, so it's not the only end all be all type of thing. What I like to find out for strength is this, and I think this is a better measure of it. Anybody who breaks their ankle, can you crutch around? That's overall health and strength, right? Because that's coordination, that's walking on one leg, that's balance, that's grip strength on the crutches, right? That is everything that, to me, is a measure of health and strength. Can you do crutches? Okay? I think that's critical. Can you do 20 to 40 push ups? Women, 20. Men, 40, maybe and then or over 50 years of age. Men, can you do 40 push ups? And this is all at once. It's not one every hour. Okay? Can you do 50 sit ups, maybe 10. Can you hold a plank horse stance or a wall sit for one minute? Can you get up and down off the floor 10 times without grabbing something and holding and we're tired. Can you do this when you're 70 to 80? Hell, oh, sorry if you can't do that now and you're 50, where are you going to be when you're 70? Right? We got to get going here. And do you routinely? Can you, can you get out of a chair without pushing your hands? Can you just lift yourself up? Right? That's leg strength, that's core strength, that's everything. And then another proxy for your health, and get this is twice your waist circumference, inches less than your height. So if your waist is 35 and women, it's less. But for men, if your waist is 35 inches, let's say I'm just picking a number, okay? And you double that. That's 70 inches. Okay? That's five feet 10. You need to be at least 510 if your waist is 35 Does that make sense? Okay? And women, it's a little bit point eight to point nine, because their waist size, you know, generally, is a little bit smaller. But think about that. So if your waist size is 36 you better be six feet. If you're five eight, you're not in shape. Real, simple. Okay, I hope I didn't guilt anybody into anything, but I hope what I did is kind of get you thinking, get you understanding the importance, the criticality of this. And, you know, start low, go slow, works, just do something. And remember my goals at the very thing is, lift heavy stuff, pick up stuff and put it down, do something like that to get your muscle health. And I'm sure the time is up, obviously critically. So the hook is coming. If there's any questions or comments, I'm happy to go over those.

Speaker 1  2:02:18
Well, I like, I like the stuff part. We always,

Unknown Speaker  2:02:26
well, you get the you know, that's my emphasis, right?

Speaker 1  2:02:34
Dr Peterson has a interesting new book on ALS. There's a link in the in the chat, if you need that, Dr Nario has a recipe for something. Here is he still no,

Speaker 8  2:02:48
that's the ingredients of ensure, why they shouldn't take,

Unknown Speaker  2:02:52
sure. Okay, yeah, it looks like

Speaker 3  2:02:58
good stuff. I absolutely agree. I agree. I

Speaker 5  2:03:03
didn't know dr Quinn was so jacked. He's got a good physique

Unknown Speaker  2:03:07
for an old guy, right?

Speaker 1  2:03:09
I was, I was thinking, I was thinking of a loss. So, you know, in your gym there, when, when he, when he was showing

Speaker 5  2:03:16
us that, yeah, he's, now on the internet. He's showing off his physique. Too Cool,

Unknown Speaker  2:03:21
cool stuff on I'm glad. What

Unknown Speaker  2:03:24
do you think of Tatsu restriction bands?

Speaker 2  2:03:29
I'm not sure about katsu, but if you're talking restriction bands and Stefan, feel free to jump in if you know. But anything that's a restriction. Band, if you use it and use it correctly, it's, it's got to help, right? They're, they're extremely strong. They're, they're hard. Band, it's a strong band, yes, they're very strong. Yeah. So that's, that's like pushing against the wall. Walls are pretty strong too.

Speaker 3  2:03:54
It is. It's absolutely amazing when you do it.

Speaker 2  2:03:57
I love it. Anything that you can do, I'm telling you, you know, half squats, brushing your teeth, just do it. Right, agree.

Speaker 1  2:04:06
Okay, okay. Doctor Nario, do you have any questions online?

Speaker 8  2:04:11
Yeah, so it just made me kind of be motivated for working out because of my girly arms here. So thanks, Dr Quinn, so

Speaker 2  2:04:21
that's okay. And again, I can't emphasize enough your patients, look at you. How many

Speaker 1  2:04:26
of us stood up and looked down to see if we could see our belt buckle.

Speaker 8  2:04:36
Both of you guys, I always hear about taking protein. Is it best before or after? Workout? After

Speaker 2  2:04:44
doesn't matter. Everybody will say, after. Okay, don't I wouldn't say don't take it before if you think it's going to provide you with energy. No. But as they say, if you take it afterwards, your muscles are going to soak that up,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:59
right?

Speaker 5  2:05:02
Yeah, and you'll puke if you take a protein shake before you Yeah.

Speaker 2  2:05:06
And you know this as a trainer, and I got to give you kudos, everybody should be like Stefan's practice. I really think so. This guy does everything from the latest cutting edge treatments to emphasizing strength. Yes, right, everybody should be doing that, right?

Speaker 8  2:05:29
Yeah, you mentioned about the grip strength. We have a question here, but I think you explained a lot of about facts about a grip strength. But it all, I guess, started with this, a marker of sarcopenia, as, I think, where Dr maledes was coming from. And again, you're right. It's not the only, as he eliteed, I guess, alluded to, it's not the only marker of decline in muscle, but it's basically one of the better ones, because I think another company out there is promoting it. It's a, it's a urolith in ape product. So, but, right, that's right. So

Speaker 2  2:06:05
now, now the guy, oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The people that invented that as a proxy for overall health meant grip strength from hanging on a bar, yes, hanging on a bar, yeah, it wasn't, can you, you know, I mean, hey, I you know when, when we have these conferences and all this kind of stuff, this is what I do when I'm sitting there

Speaker 5  2:06:29
listening. My mom has been training hanging on a bar. So she'll do about six minutes a day of hanging from a bar. Oh, yeah, that's phenomenal, those one minute intervals throughout the day. So she's just six

Speaker 2  2:06:41
perfect. That's great. So she's got good recovery time in there as well.

Speaker 8  2:06:45
Well, don't shake her hand. Then she probably break mine.

Speaker 2  2:06:50
Break your bones. Yeah, yeah, exactly. And again, I'm so glad what Dr Patel talked about there, because, hey, people are busy. Not everybody can do all of this kind of stuff all the time and all of that. So you do what you can you really do, but you have to. And

Speaker 3  2:07:11
Dr Lewis, he's huge on grip, stain strength. He's got these actual, you know, I don't know, grip equipment that measures your grip strength. And he believes that it's absolutely huge to your health in the whole situation.

Speaker 2  2:07:34
Well, I'll tell you what, when you talk about a measure of sarcopenia, your muscles kind of undergo a sarcopenia change. Certain ones are more than others, and and your your forearms and your wrists and all that kind of stuff can go pretty quickly. And I think that's what they're talking about there, as as grip strength. And it measures a lot of things. It's not just, you know how strong you are. They use grip strength to measure,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:04
agree, agree,

Speaker 8  2:08:06
right? Um, the thing that I work here in an office, like in the cancer center, what they did was they replaced chairs with, I mentioned this in the chat, with bouncy balls. So they're sitting on bouncy balls so they can actually balance themselves and practice core strength, right strengthening during office work. So they're sitting there typing on their keyboard and trying to balance themselves out. So that's definitely basically the right proprioception exercise, balance. And as you said, isometrics are all there. Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:08:40
it's perfect. That's, that's wonderful. That's, that's better than, than, than most, uh, another crazy theory that I have is we don't You don't want the most comfortable office chair you can find. You want to be forced to get up and move? No, I can't get right here.

Speaker 8  2:09:01
That's right. Good thing. My chair is old, so I just like stay away from

Speaker 5  2:09:08
training. I train so much every day I get the nicest gamer chair I can find so I can finally rest when I see patients.

Speaker 2  2:09:15
Of course, you're you're the opposite of most people.

Speaker 5  2:09:19
Today, I'll give you what I did, and I've been doing this for the past nine days straight. I've been practicing tennis at an academy three hours a day in the morning, and I see patients in the afternoon, and then I work out in the evening. Perfect,

Speaker 8  2:09:32
man. That's the life if you could have that schedule.

Unknown Speaker  2:09:35
Oh yeah,

Speaker 8  2:09:39
into what you guys are doing. I I'll make sure I send that to my boss, Stefan guy, who has the schedule. Why can I get that

Unknown Speaker  2:09:49
for me? I'll give you a great schedule.

Speaker 8  2:09:54
Yeah, here's another one. So we see different body types. I mean healthy body types. So there's a question here. What's healthier a bodybuilder is built, or a marathon runner's built? So you know, the out of the type bodybuilder versus the bigger

Speaker 2  2:10:11
a muscular one. Okay, first of all, if you're talking about a bodybuilder. We have to do a Stefan. You understand the term? We're only talking about natty people. Natty means natural. We're not talking about steroid enhanced. Okay? Most of those that like, like, you know, Mike is retail and Michael o'hern That that's steroids. We all know that. They know that, they admit to that, right? I'm not saying it's bad. Okay, so if you're talking about a naturally strong bodybuilder versus someone who's tearing their knees up and their body apart running a marathon, I don't think there's any choice. If you're talking balance, you know, do some vo two MAX type of stuff, some of that endurance training, as well as strength training. And Stefan will bear me out here, if you do a good workout with weights, man, you can be sucking wind and that that helps,

Speaker 8  2:11:13
right? And I agree with you there. I think that's the stereotype that people think about body building, that they use substances for that, but I have seen natural athletes just do this the right way, and there's no adulteration of any substances at all. So, but yeah, news, you mentioned the marathon runners. The problem there. But

Speaker 5  2:11:33
here's also thing about being a natural purist. The adaptations to hormones with training is not the same for the 20 year old as it is for the 60 year old. So if you put a six year old and you happen to start a weightlifting program, their growth hormone doesn't go up, does their testosterone doesn't go up like it would for a 20 year old in response to the training. So, I mean, do a little enhancement. That's the whole point of anti aging medicine. There's no reason to be a purist. If your D, H, E, A is, you know, 90 H, E, A, pregnant alone at the very least, and then report testosterone and, you know, it's and these, these are anabolic steroids. They have great therapeutic uses, especially for the aging patient,

Speaker 8  2:12:19
yeah, and that's why, again, there are so many healthier ways and how you can do this. You just need guidance, especially from the professionals and your medical doctor, for sure. So here's another one.

Speaker 3  2:12:31
You know, I'm 57 years old, and it wasn't until I went to Dr Clearfield that I got better. I had to have testosterone replacement therapy. It was that there was no way I was going to start going to the gym and exercise and I'm going to go blah, blah, blah, and wah wah, wah wah, no, it just wasn't going to work. So we, we interjected the testosterone replacement therapy right away. And I swear, as soon as I got the first shot, I got warmth back into my body. And it did. It took a couple weeks, you know, for the actual, uh, effects to start wearing in, but it was immediate when I got the shot. It was absolutely amazing. And that's what TRT can do for seniors like myself, who, you know have gone through a lot as especially as, I'll just be honest, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:13:44
no doubt. I mean, that's why we call it integrative medicine, right? Yeah, exactly. Use all of the tools that that work, that you need to make somebody healthy. They're tools. And like, say that not one thing works. I mean, I wouldn't tell people, you know, that are ill will just go lift weights and you're gonna be fine. No, but I would tell somebody who's got maybe a little, you know, fire rate or got some challenges there exercise and if you got to have the testosterone replacement, that that's fine. You do what you gotta do to get better.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:18
Agree, Agree.

Speaker 8  2:14:22
So another question here, I think, is you mentioned about lactate causing all these soreness so you're saying both work out soreness. Is that good or bad? I think it's pertaining to Dom's delayed onset muscle soreness here. So there's they're probably asking, Is soreness good immediately after, or is there something wrong with me if I feel soreness?

Speaker 2  2:14:46
No, no. One thing I can tell you is you may have worked out too much. You know, the person that goes, Oh, my God, I worked on I can't lift my arm over my head. You know, that might be a little bit too much, but again, the the good thing about that is that tells you that whatever you were doing is working those muscles, and if those are the muscles you're trying to work, then that's the exercise that you want to do for those muscles. Just don't overdo it. I step on can bear me out on this, but I will tell you, everybody's different. You're going to get people that go, I'm I'm not doing a good job unless I get sore. Okay, we love the tippy.

Speaker 5  2:15:27
The difference is, when you get anybody on a first doctor, Patel decides to hit the gym tomorrow, right? She's going to be sore, and she's probably going to be sore for multiple days because she's never touched a dumbbell, and I don't know how many years, Dr Patel, have you ever touched a dumbbell? So she's going to be sore, and you have to anticipate this for the patient, and you have to warn them that they are going to be sore and that they're not going to die, but they do need to pace themselves and allow themselves to recover. But also, if the patient is having a I would call it a pathological soreness, they're not recovering. This is days 345, it takes, like multiple days to recover. This is a sign that they have something significantly missing, and this is probably growth hormone DHEA, testosterone. Like pain and slow recovery. Their hormones need to be looked at and they need to be optimized, especially your senior citizens who try to go and lift the weight.

Speaker 9  2:16:20
Yeah, and you know what? Dr Quinn, I have quick question for you, yeah, we know that high protein diet does not build muscles. Correct? What would be the optimal diet to build muscle?

Speaker 2  2:16:38
That's where it goes back to if you are, let's say older, and you are sarcopenic, and you are not doing anything, you are not doing any resistance training or something like that, you're going to want to try to focus on leucine. You're going to want to get a leucine supplement or something like that, because the amino acids are what's going to give you the benefit of the protein, and that's going to help your muscles more than anything, if you're not working out. Okay, now we can talk about, like I mentioned, 30 grams of protein per meal. If you're eating three meals a day, they find can help keep you from losing more muscle mass. But you're not going to build it with protein alone.

Speaker 9  2:17:33
Are there any amino acid protein. I mean amino acid products. Maybe we cannot talk about that. Now. Are there amino acid products that contain leucine and isoleucine that can be used to build the muscle? Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:17:52
and the one I know about, I guess we can't say anything. Dr Clearfield,

Speaker 1  2:17:58
we're still on if you want, I can close it. We've got plenty here. So okay, good night everybody.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:08
Okay, go for it. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:18:10
the one that I know about is by Doctor Shallenberger, right? Perfect. Amino really, yeah. That's that's the one that I that I know about, and it's proprietary. So if you see his infomercial or anything like that, and you look at the product, it's not going to tell you the exact ratios, but through the studies and all the stuff that they've done, he's got the ratios in there that our body needs, and that's the only one I know about. There's got to be more. That's the one I know about. That's the one

Speaker 3  2:18:42
I use. He's actually here in Carson City. Yeah, he is Nevada, yep,

Unknown Speaker  2:18:48
yep, Oh, wow.

Speaker 9  2:18:51
Okay, that's great, perfect. I mean, okay, great, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:18:54
no, that's, it's not cheap, right? So what does it hit there? Oh, muscle training kills cancer. Okay, good, yeah. Stefan, you mentioned something I was, I was going to comment on, like, I can't remember exactly when you're, oh, about the, about the getting sore. Okay, so people that get sore, or they're worried about getting sore, or, as you said, maybe Doctor Patel or something. That's why I recommend starting out with isometrics. It's going to let your muscles know that something's coming right. And I don't mean do isometrics and then go lift weights. You can do isometrics for a period of time, a week, two weeks a month, a year, do whatever, right, and your muscles will not get sore. I haven't heard of anybody getting really sore from isometrics. I'm sure there's people out there that do, but I haven't heard of that. And then if you want to do step wise, then go to bands before you lift weights, right? That's still going to be less of a negative impact on what you're doing. And as you know, the thing we don't want is somebody to get sore and not come back. I mean, that's the worst, that's that's the worst thing. And I will make one, one more comment on this. And it's not to insult anyone, but the the person that says, Oh yeah, I gotta go to I know, I gotta work out. Yeah, you know, I gotta watch my diet. I gotta go. I gotta gym every I gotta start going. That's not the first step. That's, that's a step toward, you're not gonna go. Yeah, you just gotta shut up and do it. Yep. Gotta

Speaker 8  2:20:31
make the time. Hey, that's me. No, so I do agree with Stefan. I mean, the path the physiological soreness is really 12 to 48 hours after that, there is definitely something else that you should look into. And as you see, as you said, lactic acid has been debunked as this source of DOMs, and this all started when these marathon runners felt that and felt it on their calves. So the theory there was lactic acid. But really, now it's really about the micro tears, the prostaglandins, the histamines that are released. So it's starting to get debunked in newer studies. So that's why it's a good thing. You brought that up just to kind of remove that, that myth out there about

Speaker 9  2:21:17
it. How about slow movements like Tai Chi and Falun Gong and all of those other Oriental exercises? Do? They

Speaker 5  2:21:30
don't build muscle, build balance, though. Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:21:34
which is important, obviously, right? But, but like I said, they don't build muscle yoga and all that. It's not going to build muscle, yeah.

Speaker 8  2:21:46
Well, I got all my questions in, so I think we got to see Stefan's version in the next few years in Dr Quinn. And Quinn probably looked like Stefan when he was younger, so we probably now have a model on how we should be, like Dr Bill quit,

Unknown Speaker  2:22:02
were you always that muscular? Or is this something recent?

Unknown Speaker  2:22:05
No, no, Photoshop is it? No,

Speaker 2  2:22:08
I don't even know how to do that. I came on the thing, PowerPoint thing here. No, no, it's not. It's a little bit of work. I will tell you that the abs are from, well, Stefan, you've heard this, right? Abs are made in the kitchen.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:21
Yeah, they're pretty lean.

Speaker 2  2:22:22
So, so the ABS come from doing a protein, and not only protein being smart in the kitchen, but also Bruce Lee's ab workout, right? Remember Bruce Lee that? Yeah, I do eight

Speaker 1  2:22:40
ABS every single day. Some guy in the in the late 80s and early 90s, he had eight eight minute abs, eight minute arms, eight minute legs. I do the eight minute abs and I do one of the other ones. Look at 80s. It was in the 80s. Yeah, look eight minute abs.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:56
Oh, I thought you said the guy was in his 80s.

Speaker 8  2:23:03
Oh, you know, he gets his abs worked out. He has a guy with, you know, those fighting sticks, yeah, he gets hit on the abdomen repeatedly every day to get those abs. Like, oh,

Speaker 1  2:23:17
hard, the eight minute ABS has 37 million views. Wow. Well, if

Speaker 5  2:23:25
you guys want the the doctor halasa experience, I'm opening up a resort stay for you doctors. You're going to come here. You're going to learn the muscle centric medicine approach. You're going to get trained by me.

Speaker 3  2:23:36
Hurrah. That's awesome. You're in Florida, right? Yes, okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:23:46
that's even better.

Speaker 5  2:23:50
I had a DR Paulo Conforti, an Italian doctor do it. He stayed for a week or two, and he was, he was like, oh, I need a rest, because that way I was training him every day,

Speaker 2  2:24:01
yeah? Well, yeah, you got to condense it, right? But then, as you know, I mean, it's what's he going to do

Unknown Speaker  2:24:09
when he gets home? Yeah,

Speaker 3  2:24:12
yeah. That's true. That's true. Yeah.

Speaker 2  2:24:15
And again, there are ways. I mean, not, I mean, I can help on this. My company does a thing where we we talk about it and help people. I don't sit there and make them lift weights, but there's a way to start and a way to continue, and also throw in some dietary type of things and all of that for people who can't make it to Stefan's clinic, by no means if you can make it do that, because an intense beginning is one of the big keys, because you're going to feel and see results, right? And that's going to kick you off, which is the same thing that ozempic should be used for get you started. Don't know, right? So you see something, you feel something, and then you you have a better shot at continuing.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:05
Yeah, agree, highly, agree.

Speaker 1  2:25:13
So all right, well, Stefan will, instead of going to Washington or whatever, or wherever, wherever that place is that you guys are meeting up because I don't, it's West Virginia, Florida, gonna hang out at your place. I hear, I hear, I hear a lot gonna kick, kick out your next door neighbor.

Speaker 5  2:25:33
Yeah, I lost it. Wants to move, move into town and come to my clinic every day. He's like, we got to do the all the doctors need to be doing this. Need to be coming here. Iron clinic. I'm like, iron direct, primary thing. But yes, iron clinic,

Unknown Speaker  2:25:48
good idea.

Speaker 1  2:25:55
Okay, all right, so, dr, Tano, I have you up next week. I don't know if you remember

Unknown Speaker  2:26:00
on the first, right, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:26:03
is it the first? Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, it's the third. June, 3, the third. Okay, good, yeah, okay. I don't have, I don't have a I don't have a topic. So

Speaker 9  2:26:18
how about it's going to be on? I think I'll send it to you.

Unknown Speaker  2:26:22
Come up, come up with something good. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:24
all right, yes,

Speaker 2  2:26:27
okay, yeah. And Dr Tano, while you're there, I guess we're, we're going to be on now in West Virginia,

Speaker 9  2:26:34
yeah, yeah. I think it's Dr bird just says we should go. So I guess we will.

Speaker 2  2:26:39
I guess we'll go. Okay, yeah, okay, then we'll send out the word. I got to talk to Dr Ben. Let him know. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:48
all right. I love West Virginia.

Speaker 7  2:26:52
He forgot to tell me. We forgot to tell you, Yes, last I heard you said you were not coming. Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:27:03
that's because we were, you know, just all five o'clock all in a tizzy over Doctor Burgess what was going to happen and what wasn't going to happen, and I don't know who's going to moderate. I don't know who's going to come by and who's going to do all that?

Speaker 7  2:27:18
Oh, well, I'm sort of worried about the second day where we're meeting, because it's supposed to rain, and we were planning to do it outside. So I came tonight to find out we're so

Speaker 6  2:27:32
in Bavarian, yeah, at the Bavarian resort. You mean Saturday on Saturday? Yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:27:40
just one day at the Bavarian.

Speaker 6  2:27:44
That's going to be Friday and Saturday at the Bavarian.

Speaker 7  2:27:47
Okay, glad to hear it. Okay, because I was panicking about the rain so So

Speaker 9  2:27:57
Miss Dutch business of the first time we hear about you. I don't know. We're not, we don't know much about you. Know it all, but we don't have all your information.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:09
She's amazing. I

Unknown Speaker  2:28:10
like it that way.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:14
Know that you're going to be you're going to be odd. Sorry. Dutch, well,

Unknown Speaker  2:28:23
that's all right.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:26
Now you have to live up to it. That's the hard part. Oh no, she's great. Those be prepared,

Unknown Speaker  2:28:38
okay,

Speaker 1  2:28:42
all right, good, all right, everybody, so we're in good shape here.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:45
Sounds good, right?

Speaker 1  2:28:49
Muscle training feels canceled, okay, and our dumbbell exercises okay for breast cancer, I suppose. Yeah, sure. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:29:01
all right, as Stefan said in a thing, right? I mean,

Unknown Speaker  2:29:06
well, unless you have a pick line,

Speaker 2  2:29:12
yeah, there's obviously going to be exceptions, yeah, definitely you don't want to do it. But can you do squats with a pick line? I PICC

Speaker 8  2:29:19
line? No, it's really the problem is sweating. So when you have an opening like that on your arm, the pronus to infection is your problems. That's why the most that we recommend to our cancer patients with a pic liner would be really walking. I mean, unless you really you can prevent that that sweat to not get into that incision site. Unless you have a port, you can definitely do whatever you

Speaker 2  2:29:41
want. Yo, I was gonna say, if you have a port, isn't it completely sealed off? Yeah,

Speaker 8  2:29:46
port's fine. A PICC line's totally different. It's just more of a risk for infection.

Speaker 9  2:29:52
Yeah, I have my crazy exercise that I do where I move all the limbs, everything. It's like a five minutes exercise. You completely out and tired. Does that work?

Speaker 2  2:30:03
Yeah, it works. But you know, that's going to be more in line with those other things like yoga and tai chi and all that kind of stuff. I don't think you're going to build muscle. What you're doing is stretching, right and and as they say, as, as, as Tony Horton says the P 90x guy stretching will keep you young. Okay, so stretching is critical. We didn't talk about that. I mean, yeah, there's a certain time and way that you stretch before you exercise, right? You don't just jump into it, right? But it, it's critical. All of that stuff is critical, and it all helps, right? Cool,

Speaker 1  2:30:42
okay, all right, all right, everybody, any, anybody have any conferences coming up? Any I know Stefan's going to England in a couple of weeks.

Speaker 8  2:30:55
In July, I'll be in Hawaii, I got invited to a conference. Actually, conventional medical doctors wanted to know what integrative functional medicine is, so I am going to be introducing to them our world, and hopefully they will throw tomatoes

Speaker 1  2:31:12
at me. So you better, you better get a hazmat suit to go with

Speaker 8  2:31:16
Yeah. So this is uncharted territory, so I just want to make sure I tell everybody where I am last if I don't come back.

Speaker 2  2:31:25
That's fabulous. I think that's fabulous. That's good.

Speaker 1  2:31:29
I'm doing a testosterone what is it? I forget exactly what testosterone and women for the androgen society with Dr Morgan tellers group San Francisco, July 11. So that's my, that's my big, big news, so you don't get tomatoes

Speaker 8  2:31:48
over there. That's for sure. Get thrown tomato asparagus,

Speaker 1  2:31:56
yeah. So that's my, that's my big coup for the summer here. Wow. So, okay, so we're moving good. All right, we will, I guess, I guess, if we're still on, we'll, we'll talk on Friday, I guess we'll see how. All right, we do have, we do have. We do have a proposal for the last weekend in October to join with Noma Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association and to be focused for us, not them. And it has to do again, with the homeopathic society, also for CME credit conference in Reno. So think about that also. Okay, it's October, 24 25th 26th that's the last weekend in October. So we can, we can get do and MD credits that way, I guess. So. Okay, so think about that, probably be at the pepper mill. We, those of you have been here, been here. You know, been here. We've been there before, and it's probably the nicest, that of the hotels in town. And we they give us a good price, as long as we eat enough and sell enough rooms so And okay, I guess that's it. Thanks everybody. Late back east, so I'll let you all go, and I'll talk to you soon. Okay, alright. Thank you so much. That was great.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:32
Okay, well, you're very welcome. I hope it helped.

Speaker 9  2:33:35
Yeah, that's amazing. Dr Quinn is awesome.

Speaker 1  2:33:38
You know, anytime we can, anytime we can, we can boost Stefan's clinic. And Dr Tano, we're in good shape.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:46
Yeah, there you go.

Speaker 1  2:33:48
Dr narion, don't you? He looks like I'm gonna left, left him out too. And Dr Nario,

Speaker 2  2:33:52
too. Hey, don't forget my stuff too, man. Thank you

Speaker 1  2:33:56
for being here. If you're new, please bring a friend so we can double our census, and we'll be back next week, same time, same station, we'll have Dr Tano, who's probably the smartest one in our group. Oh,

Speaker 9  2:34:07
that would not happen. Dr Quinn is the one so. Dr scenario, yes. The

Speaker 1  2:34:18
only issue with Dr Tano is he's got that Minnesota accent that I have. So okay, I'll try. I'm trying to get Evangelica. You remember the young lady we had last in February from France? I'm trying to get her back so you'll have somebody to talk to you know in French. Yes. Okay, everybody. Good night. Thank you so see you again next week. Same time same station, and take care.

Unknown Speaker  2:34:53
All right, bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai