Speaker 1  00:22
Hey, you want some right, see you in September.

Speaker 2  00:33
Johnny B man, I'm so proud of all you guys and Dr Gerber, hi. Dr Gerber,

Unknown Speaker  00:41
Hi, Hi. How you doing? Man, you

Bill Clearfield  00:45
made it on. Dr Gerber,

Speaker 3  00:49
I think so. If I can figure out how to do the share thing here,

Bill Clearfield  00:53
down at the bottom, there's a little green thing. It says share that'll then your your desktop will show up and then just click on the one that's, that's, that's your, your, your show. So what you got to do?

Unknown Speaker  01:09
Okay, right

Bill Clearfield  01:11
down at the bottom there, I'll say share. That'll be light lit up in green,

Unknown Speaker  01:20
not seeing it here.

Speaker 3  01:27
We got audio, video participants, chat

Bill Clearfield  01:35
right in the center there. Huh? I

Unknown Speaker  01:45
not getting shared. Darn.

Speaker 2  01:55
Hey, Dr Gerber, I read your bio and I see how far you go back. I was wondering if you worked with a cam at all.

Speaker 3  02:02
Of course, I was a president of a cam while back.

Unknown Speaker  02:06
Well, hallelujah, praise God.

Speaker 3  02:08
So we've been doing chelation a long time here. Let me go get Adam see if he can find this here. Hold on a second.

Speaker 2  02:20
Hey, Bill, I was talking to the president, the press man that goes way back that is so far back, like in the 80s with the chelation and all that happened with that I am sharing. I

Unknown Speaker  02:41
and supposed

Unknown Speaker  02:45
to do share, and I can't find share on this bar, sorry, guys, that's

Bill Clearfield  02:55
why you need young you need young kids to

Unknown Speaker  02:58
Yeah, you need the young. And there we go.

Speaker 3  03:15
Now is that sharing that are you guys seeing the slides myself to know, but I've just seen myself. A moment. But I'm ready

Bill Clearfield  03:25
take them, go up to the slide show. There, in the ribbon, there. There you go. You got

Speaker 3  03:31
it? Okay? So doc, like I was saying earlier, all you need to do is arrow forward to go through. Okay, good. And then, otherwise, you're set, alright, and see all the participants, so you're good to go. All right, thank you. Thanks, Adam.

Bill Clearfield  03:45
We have about 10 minutes yet. Michael, so take it easy. All right, don't panic.

Unknown Speaker  03:52
He found the share thing.

Bill Clearfield  03:55
It's all good, right? You need a 10 year old to run these things. That's

Unknown Speaker  04:02
That's Adam. He's, that's my baby.

Unknown Speaker  04:07
Go, yeah, go,

Bill Clearfield  04:12
all right. So it looks like we're getting our our act together. Finally, December, 4 to sixth, it's going to be at the element hotel in Reno. I know

Speaker 3  04:22
I I wrote you an email mentioning that many of our people can't get away on Thursday and Friday, so we

Bill Clearfield  04:30
had you Sunday. Yeah, Sunday wasn't Sunday was not available. No, that's we did

Speaker 3  04:38
it be nice if we could, it'd be nice if we could have a little in person meeting here in this week or so and see if we can.

Bill Clearfield  04:50
Dr Dario, okay, so we'll arrange for a time. So

Unknown Speaker  04:53
All right,

Speaker 2  04:57
hey, Bill, since I didn't get a response, I'm going to ask, do you think our research committee, with all the things we're doing, could get two hours at this show? Absolutely.

Bill Clearfield  05:06
Okay,

Speaker 2  05:11
great, okay, and Dr Quinn will be the guy hanging with you there. Yeah, I'm counting on it. Excellent, excellent. So

Bill Clearfield  05:26
okay, but no freebies this time. It's getting paid for.

Speaker 2  05:32
Hey, what I'm doing now? Well, I've come to the conclusion we have to have some kind of income support for this group in order to do anything. So I'm thinking of money. How you get it? What do you do? And we need

Bill Clearfield  05:48
to talk about that little we had a little support for these Tuesday night things. You know, I've been doing it for five years and never, never, never, never, one time we tried to do a little something with Dr Parvin. Remember her? She's got her own She's got her own school now. So

Speaker 3  06:09
alright, so you'll give me the chat questions later, huh?

Bill Clearfield  06:14
Yeah, usually what we do is, you go through the whole lecture, then we do the chat, and Dr Nario has his his fans from the Philippines, and they send an email questions. So you're usually not on the spectrum. So we usually start Michael, so Doctor Nario is taking the doctor Wiles integrative medicine fellowship at the University of Arizona, so we lean on him for they give us about a five minute tip of the week. So what he learned this week so that we don't have to go and spend all that money and time and he will just get the highlights. Because I might, I don't while I don't, I don't remember. I know about the rest of you, but my attention span is that's about all I can, I can, I can, I can pay attention to and then I start the fate.

Speaker 4  07:09
So, hey, did you? Did you hear about this incident in Vegas that happened with Dr old torf? Did you read about it? No. So there was a conference in Red Rock Casino. It's an anti aging conference, and he had a booth there, and he was giving peptides injective injections, wholetorf. It's, it's an integrative, oh, yeah, integrated peptides, remember, yeah. So he was giving injections in his booth for during that conference, and two of them went to the emergency room and got intubated. So now intubated, that's right, and they were, unfortunately. I mean, he was saying that it was not the peptides, but of course, they're investigating the, the lot, number, all the samples that were used for that. But again, it's just putting on darker picture again, for peptides. So that's kind of like the bigger issue there. So I saw this in it's not actually from, I saw this news from an actual medical medical publication, it's for medical doctors, not for integrative doctors. So real making it's real

Bill Clearfield  08:26
doctors, right? Ones who look down on us.

Speaker 4  08:31
And now there's more reason to do that when you see these types of stories. So, oh man,

Bill Clearfield  08:38
not, not, not one. Not that we want any, any that kind of thing to happen. But in the same time period that he gave those two injections, and those injections and two people went to the ER and were intubated. How many? How many people in the ER and ended up getting intubated or giving, you know, FDA approved drugs.

Unknown Speaker  09:05
Er, right, yeah, you're not gonna think of that.

Bill Clearfield  09:08
I would, I would try. I would, I would suggest it would be many, many times that.

Speaker 4  09:16
I mean, again, peptides are very safe, you know that we use it. It's just that it's maybe it's unfortunate that he got a bad batch. Or, you

Bill Clearfield  09:25
know, do you know what? Well, first of all, I don't know about you, I wouldn't be giving peptide injections in a booth at a at a medical conference. What

Speaker 4  09:37
was he thinking? I mean, you need to have, I guess you need to get licensed. I see, I think he's a California licensee, and you need to get a temporary Nevada license. I think,

Bill Clearfield  09:50
I thought he was, but he was in Texas.

Speaker 4  09:53
No, no, he's, he's California based. Oh, okay. So anyway, another Dark Cloud. But hopefully,

Bill Clearfield  10:01
you know, doesn't you know what the peptides were.

Speaker 4  10:05
No they didn't mention. It was just two, two injections. He was giving out oral also, or I'm assuming those are just his oral samples, but I don't know what got into him when he started injecting people

Bill Clearfield  10:19
over there. That'll kill your business.

Speaker 4  10:23
I mean, we don't know the story, the full story, yet. It's just that, again, we don't need that, especially when we're trying to fight for, for peptides, right? We want to more. We want FDA to approve more of it, rather than removing them. So that's, that's, I think somebody mentioned here, it's Doximity, yeah, I think that's where I saw it too. You

Bill Clearfield  10:47
know, when this was

Speaker 4  10:49
specific dates? I'm not sure, but it's, this is pretty new. I mean, maybe Jacqueline would know, Oh, yeah. Or Steve mentioned it was recent. It

Speaker 5  11:02
was less like last week. It was in doxem, but they didn't have any details, except that PEP, two people had injected with peptides, and they were in the ER, and that's about it.

Bill Clearfield  11:15
Oh, okay, so, so we have a core operation, so it's not just Dr Mario's imagination,

Speaker 4  11:25
yeah, make sure you fact check everything. I say, just to be sure we should do right? You don't know if we're making up stuff here. So here the date of the article was on July 29 so that's when it was published. I'll put a you want me to post this in the chat, or this is a little bit incriminating?

Bill Clearfield  11:49
No, no. You know we need to. You know you need to know the good and the bad here. You know we can't. We can't bury our head in the sand, all right, for there must be. It's hot and big. We know. We know how to how this climate is in Vegas by whether you know what he's wearing. If he has no shirt on, it's gotta be over 100 Oh, 107 Nice. So it's almost, it's almost full.

Speaker 6  12:18
Yeah, this is a cold snap coming through. Well,

Bill Clearfield  12:24
alright. So doctor, nary, you got got us our Tip of the Week here.

Speaker 4  12:28
Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay, let me, are you going to press record or not? Really, I am recording. Yes. Oh, you are okay. I thought okay. So for a tip of the leak of the week, as John mentioned, maybe we should change the name, right? So let's bust the myth here. And for years, we've been told never give a black cohosh to women with estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. But that's for me, that's how was I believed it. But what if I told you the science says the opposite black cohosh Is it a phytoestrogen. It doesn't bind estrogen receptors. Instead, it works like a neurotransmitter ninja modulating dopamine, serotonin, GABA and opioid pathways that control therm regulation, translation, he claims, calms hot flashes without making making up, I guess estrogen problems for us, meaning not making up estrogen receptors. So here are two key trials that we have so tamoxifen plus black cohosh in 136 women with ER positive breast cancer. So ER positive after 12 months, half of those on black cohosh were completely free of hot flashes compare with the controls, where most were still sweating through their sheets, zero serious side effects. Another study hormonal suppression trial was 85 women for 12 weeks, black cohosh improved symptoms with no changes in estradiol, LH, FSH or uterine lining thickness. So it works, and it's very safe. So the protective twist here is the plot twist is black cohosh might actually protect against breast cancer. A case of a case. Control study of 2500 women found a 50% lower breast cancer risk among users of black cohosh and survivor study recurrence was delayed from two years in the control group to 6.5 years in the black cohosh group. So that's just not safe. That's pretty impressive. So critical data, pre clinical data, even showed anti proliferative effects on breast cancer cells. So maybe this herb isn't the villain. Maybe it's the underdog superhero with a botanical cape. So take home message here. So Black cohosh is safe, effective and possibly protective in breast cancer survivors. So what? What are, what's those 20 to 40 milligram standard extract daily. It's safe with tamoxifen, and also routine monitoring should be done, of course, in any type of conditions. So instead of avoiding it out of fear that's use it smartly. Just remember to loop in oncologist, because nothing ruins your day like an angry phone call from from him, right? So from misunderstood villain to potential superhero, hot flashes down, quality of life up. That's a win, win worth sharing to all of you guys today. So that's our Ergo Tip of the Week. Well,

Bill Clearfield  15:20
you sure that the breast protection isn't from the Tamoxifen?

Speaker 4  15:24
Well, that they, yeah, because so they kind of randomized. It also that there are, there's a control group not taking the Tamoxifen. So that's why, I mean, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  15:38
that's kind of like, I can only speak for myself, but I don't know that I've ever used tamoxifen with when somebody comes in and they want, you know, herbal remedies for hot flashes, I never added tamoxifen to it.

Speaker 4  15:50
Well, Tamoxifen is basically being used in that ER positive breast cancer study, and of course, they're having hot flashes at the same time, because that's one of the side effects of tamoxifen and black cohosh was used to negate that. So they're worried about, of course, they don't want to use anything estrogen. We use estrogen to remedy hot flashes, right? So instead, black co hosts were chosen to actually remedy this, and it didn't aggravate the ER positive breast cancers.

Bill Clearfield  16:18
Okay? We've used, we've used other, other combos of, you know, of course, Chase Berry, we've used with black cohosh, and I've used a black walnut seed with black cohosh, and we've used Swedish bee pollen. So we've used all sorts of combinations. So I was about to introduce Dr Gerber, or speaker, and he waved and went off. So,

Speaker 4  16:45
you know that there's a medicine that I think it's viosa, it's a, it's a,

Bill Clearfield  16:53
right? Yeah, the drug rep actually showed up here at my office today. I think this is the second time in 13 years, I've had a real medical doctor, drug rep, show off the only other ones who show up for the NP, thyroid

Speaker 4  17:05
people, right? So it's an antidepressant. It's an unknown hormonal therapy, medication without estrogen to remedy hot flashes. So I don't, haven't tried it. I don't know if you have experience with it. Yeah? So, yeah, worth, worth looking at.

Bill Clearfield  17:21
Anybody out there have any experience with that? Vioza,

Speaker 4  17:25
basil, limited, that's what it's called. I think,

Unknown Speaker  17:32
yeah, okay. Anyway,

Speaker 7  17:34
do you mind to repeat what? What is limited? V,

Bill Clearfield  17:40
e, o, z, H, I think it's spelled, yeah, it's a non hormonal for for vasomotor. It's

Unknown Speaker  17:53
probably covered by insurance too. So,

Bill Clearfield  17:57
yeah, probably breast

Unknown Speaker  18:01
cancer I will do you

Bill Clearfield  18:08
know we've used we've used

Unknown Speaker  18:12
candy is a microbiome

Bill Clearfield  18:15
in the office. We've used relies in which is made by a company called bonafide, which is Swedish bee pollen, that seems to work really well. And you know, for hot flashes, we've used my own myochiro inositol, that seems to work well, especially in the perimenopausal period. It'll actually straighten the periods out if they still have ovarian function. So, you know, you know, it's not medical doctor stuff. So, like, when I went to the androgen society, they didn't want to hear about anything like, you know, black cohosh or or, you know, maca, you know, to raise testosterone levels. They know, they only wanted the, you know, medical doctor stuff. So

Unknown Speaker  18:54
the audacity, yeah, I

Bill Clearfield  18:57
know, right. That was the, you know, I had to meet Mr. Big himself. There I was on the same stage with Abraham Morgan. Teller, so, oh,

Speaker 4  19:04
right, right, right. He's there. He's the president, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  19:08
yeah. He's the, you know, he's, he was mister big. He's the one who determined that prostate cancer did not come from testosterone when you're when you're when you're old, like us. So, so, so. Dr, nary, you would just two more minutes. You want to, want to briefly. We're finally getting our act together here. And we're, we're, oh yeah,

Speaker 4  19:29
our conference, yeah, yeah. So we are piling up with the speakers already. I got some speakers. I got around seven of them, and I'm sure we're going to get some more. So we're basically lying the element here in Reno. And definitely we're going to be trying to get some rooms locked up for somebody who who's from out of state, so they can actually have the place to stay. And they will give us discounts for that. I think they're okay with them around 10 to 15, I spoke to them today, because you were asking around that level, right? Not higher, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  20:03
So, yeah. So we'll, we'll put together a nice program. Dr Gerber, we're gonna, we'll get in touch with you, with your folks. Dr Quinn, with the research people. We will do a online so, you know, you know, it's holiday time and whatnot. If you can't, can't make it. You know, we couldn't get Sunday. So all, every place we went was booked on Sunday. So we have Thursday, Friday and Saturday. We have, we have booked December 4 to the sixth. We will, we will be pursuing CME credits. We'll do that. And those of you have been to my conferences that I run, you know we always have some nice surprise things to do at night after hours, so it makes you interact with each other. So and if nothing comes nothing, if I can't get it, I can't get any, any other good stuff, you'll get me to I'm going to teach you how to do a either rumba or tango. You're gonna have a tango lesson. So

Unknown Speaker  21:05
you're gonna be putting them on a ghost.

Bill Clearfield  21:08
Gets really bad. We're gonna, we're gonna have have a karaoke contest. We'll have Dr Fong run that. So. And with that, I have to apologize because I had, I got the Michael and I kind of got, got crossed up a little bit this week, and I got, I got it all wrong. So you see the title of what he's going to be speaking about tonight there on the screen. So Doctor Michael Gerber is an institution in the Reno area. He graduated from Kansas City University, School of Medicine probably the year, the year it was. It was founded in 1972 I think way back when he had did his internal medicine residency at Oakland County Hospital with additional training in Zaire Africa, and he trained in psychiatric externship at the crisis intervention ward at the UC SF medical school. He's performed psychopharmacology research at Stanford, Research Award at Palo Alto California Veterans Administration, in Menlo Park Veterans Administration, he's always been drawn to natural approaches to medicine. Early in his practice, he studied with many well known medical pioneers such as Dr John, Christopher and Dr Pavo areola, did I hope I said that right? And two time Nobel Prize Laureate, Dr Linus Pauling, he's been a chelating physician since 1976 a diplomat of the American Board of chelation therapy in 1984 and a diplomat of the International College of anti aging medicine, a graduate of the UCLA Medical acupuncture training program, president of the Nevada homeopathic and integrative Medical Association, past president of the ortho molecular Medical Society, medical advisor and featured columnist in the alternative magazine the Townsend letter. Personally, when I came to Reno, Michael welcome me with open arms. He actually took one of my first year here, took one of my articles and had it published in the Townsend journal. I learned how to do bibliography then, because I guess I had it all wrong back then. And Michael has been a great friend, a great resource, anything, anything in the integrative medicine world. Michael is, is like a font of, you know, he's an encyclopedia, you know, the only, the only, the only comparable person that I think I've run into that knowledge is probably Dr Cano. So the two of them, we should have, we should have it, have them on stage together, it would be a fascinating debate. So, so I know you're out there, Dr Cano, I hope, I hope you're up. You're up for that. So, so with that, I, I welcome the the premier integrative medicine practitioner in in in our area, is Dr Michael Gerber, so and I know you're computerly challenged, so I hope somebody's behind you there to in case things get, things get, get dicey there. So, so take it

Speaker 3  24:16
away. Michael. All right. Thank you. Dr Clearfield, very sweet remarks. I appreciate it very much. And according to your wishes, a while back, I am going to speak a bit about EAV electro acupuncture by whole and the new computerized versions of it and the miracles that it bestows on us. So we'll get to that. My title, as you see, is unsuspected parasitism and infectious diseases. And we'll kind of go a little bit to the roots of some of those things. But as all of our patients come see us, and again, we're usually not the first doctor that patients come see, unless they're very oriented to healthy medicine, but we see the patients that have been to 15 or 32 doctors in various universities and have mysterious symptoms or chronic illnesses that have been treated and treated and treated and have been unresponsive or not changing and become more and more chronic and or just your average person with extreme fatigue and chronic pain and anxiety and depression and insomnia and overweight and you know, you Know, very basic human problems. So with that, we'll kind of start through and talk a little bit about these guys. Well, there on the right side of your screen is an old pick of Dr Reinhold bowl, and he started this out in the early 1950s in Germany, and he made his dermatron, which is not in this pic, but the first machine for testing in the 1960s so this has been around a long time. So it works in the body's own external oscillation frequencies, and it's based on a combination of traditional Chinese acupuncture and electronic homeopathy. Testing is usually done on acupuncture endpoints, usually on fingers and toes, but you can use knuckles. You can use anywhere. So I've been using this technology for 30 plus years, and always in combination with standard labs. And so this modern computerized EAV devices store over 40,000 virtual images for testing. Well, homeopathy is certainly an art and a science, but EAV computers make it a little bit easier. There are hundreds and hundreds of homeopathic remedies on the hard drive of my computer. And you know, I use Murphy's material, medica and clinical repertoire a course to get close to the remedy of the patient. But I remember this last couple of weeks saying a seven year old boy fear of abandonment, trying to escape and being very mean and angry to his mother and and his grandmother, kind of abandoned by his father and but on the other days, he was a cherub, just delightful child, very bright and very sweet. And he did have dreams of death and of the afterlife. So I thought, well, this could be, you know, a number of things, but I looked at Anacardium, which is kind of without a heart, but it has an angel on one shoulder and a devil on the other. And then so I asked that about the computer and the computer, it didn't weaken the patient. So I'm always, you know, homeopathic serve, you know, frequently poisons and they weaken people. To my testing, and then I looked at Arsenicum album, which is also angry and vociferous and actually has dreams of death. And a computer liked arsenica. And we used, you know, a lot of ourselves in general, in this, you know, for our whole some people say, but so then I asked the computer with this child like a 6c and, you know, in homeopathy, we do look by Roman numeral X, powers, 10, C, 100 m, 1000, lm 50,000 and so I checked 6c and it balanced. So now if it didn't balance out of check to 12 C or A 30 C or A 200 C or a 1m not often 10 Ms. But I do like LM frequencies, which are stronger and weaker. So I use a lot of LMS, but it does help to determine the the correct homeopathic remedy and correct any things, many things, and then you can get the correct dilution of the remedy. And then the the blessed computer will make the remedy for you. If you put a tincture of about 15% alcohol, I use vodka, usually blue ice, which is made from potato rather than grain, and about fit in with good, pure distilled water. And you can put that on the plate and have the computer energize it for two to four minutes, and then you succuss it, you tap it on the table top 30 times or 20 times to enliven the energy of it, and lo and behold, you've got a homeopathic remedy. And so we can do this for hundreds of remedies and other substances. So it's a very handy thing to have around the office. And I'll mention more about brand names and stuff after the CME part of the show is over. So and getting back to parasites and infectious diseases and viruses and bacteria and fungi and mycotoxins, so many parasites are extremely difficult to find and to quantitate, and we'll be talking about my very favorite guy, fasciolopsis, busky, the giant intestinal human fluke. Here, in just a few minutes, I'll show you a nice picture of that gorgeous fluke. So we'll show you the different viruses that we look at, a few of the bacteria that are not as common and you can differentiate between stress and staph and mycotoxins. So you can differentiate between many different kinds of bacterial and fungi and mycotoxins on the EAV computer. Now another area that we've touched on here is the problem of chronic dental infection. And as you may have remembered, the German biological dentist called Root canals a corpse in the attic, the tooth is dead, can't defend itself, and the other they auger out the the arteries and the veins and the lymph and the nerves, so the tooth is just defenseless, and mouth bacterial organisms can take over, and it can become a night us for infection. And I didn't put one in. But I'm sure many of you have seen a copy of the German biological dental Tooth Chart, and the teeth are all related to distant parts of the body by acupuncture meridians. So when something goes awry in the body, and it's not obvious, and the labs are normal and the physical exam is normal, and radiology is normal. It's frequently bad teeth. So with the computer, I can ask if there is the presence of a chronic bacterial jaw ostitis, chronic bacterial jaw infection. And if it says yes, then I can go around or I can ask for acute bacterial jaw ostitis, and go around to all of the teeth, or, more conveniently, have the patient ask his dental Secretary, what are the teeth that have our root canal and contest the teeth and see if they weaken him or her. Mike

Bill Clearfield  33:20
and I'm just interrupt you moving your slides because they're not moving.

Speaker 3  33:24
No, I'm just still talking about my first one here, hopefully, okay, about halfway down, and I will go through the rest of them, of course. So then also, for our very allergic people, they we, they have to be careful about dental materials. And then the dental materials are on the computer, or you can have a whole stack of dental materials, as I do, to test them individually. Well, pharmaceuticals, being an old Mr. Natural guy, I have tended toward a little bit more pharmaceutical use, especially in anti parasitical, anti fungal uses, but in even a regular pharmaceutical somebody says, my doctor put me on a diuretic, and, you know, I don't feel very good with the one he gave me. So all the pharmaceutical drugs are also on the computer. So I can ask, is free rose amide lasix the best one, or is hydrochlorothiazide better? And I can get a reading from the computer about what balances versus energy better. And we balance every, every substance that we give the patients, vitamins, herbs, homeopathic we check everything energetically to make sure it agrees with the patient. And we do see the most horribly, chronically ill people with, you know, multiple, multiple allergic symptoms, and it also has habit drugs on there, and that's kind of interesting lately, you know, using nicotine patches for covid and other things. So you can check a nicotine patch right on the computer. It also has all herbs and essential oils and vaccines we treat vaccine injury in children very frequently. And so we can test the vaccines, the DPT, the MRI, mmri, the the and check these guys and see which ones have been weakening, and then we can make a homeopathic against it. And now heavy metals, patient may come in and say, you know, I have a bunch of titanium in my mouth for implants. I'm wondering if I do okay with the titanium, and again, we can check it on the spot, as well as chemicals. How about Agent Orange? Doctor, I was in Vietnam, and I was exposed to Agent Orange. Does this still bother me? So you can check all chemicals, and then foods. Well, how about gluten? How about casein, you know, how about nuts and seeds? So you can check all these guys. All hormones are in there as well. And I check six different kinds of thyroid. And I use, I have them all in little separate vials, actually, but I check, you know, regular armor thyroid and desiccated nature thyroid. And for people that are autoimmune, of course, we do t3 and t4 and MS thyroid, and also even Synthroid. Some people like Synthroid better, which is a drug in vaguely resume resembles thyroid so and also, we can look at implants and vertebrae. Oh, I have this horrible pain. It's in my neck. Is one of these vertebrates weak? Or is in my lumbar spine? We can check vertebral segments to see if they are weakening the patient and and they can check breast implant material and in radiation. Yes, I was raised in Fallon and just down wind of the the atomic radio atomic reactions. And you can check ionizing radiation and any radiations that we want. So this has a very extensive vocabulary of energies that can be checked against the patient. And I encourage everybody to let this assist you in your daily work with your patients. Oh, and by the by computerized homeopathic and other electronic measurement devices are lawful in Nevada under the the Nevada Administrative Code, 630, 8.015, of course, we always use regular diagnostics as well, and this is legal for licensees under the Nevada State Board of homeopathic medical examiners. So that's a wonderful service to be under the Nevada board of homeopathic medical examiners and have coverage to do this type of testing and and regular homeopathy. Well, we speak about auto intoxication a lot, and, and this has been around because we like to sit in on the bottom line there in Ayurveda, classical Indian medicine for over 5000 years, have been speaking of this. And I like to take a tell a little visionette of a story of mine. Back in 1973 I was at Esalen Institute visiting a doctor friend of mine. And I don't know if you know Esalen, it's just right on the coast, goes right down into the ocean. And down below is the restaurant. And we were up above and the quarters, living quarters area, and we were having some apple and cheese and crackers. And up walks this Indian Ayurvedic physician, shambhat Nagar. And he comes up, said, Could I have a little bit of cheese and crackers, please? I was down there by that restaurant, and, oh, they're cooking that meat. And, oh, my god, the smell is so awful. You know, Indian Hindu veggie said, Sure, have a little well, listen, I'm Dr Gerber, and I work at the Stanford Research war the Palo Alto Veterans Administration Hospital and we treat our schizophrenics with Thorazine, and stellazine, and maybe Howard always around back then, how do you treat your schizophrenics in India, says well, we don't have that many schizophrenic scenes yet but if somebody goes a little crazy. We. better. They often are the downward flowing winds become disturbed and go back up to the brain and cause craziness. Everybody in India knows that, and I was rather taken aback or salt water caused diarrhea, but I went to the lane Medical Library back at Stanford, and here were these auto intoxications of schizophrenia, scales, pyrroles in those had cognitive aspects to them. So the apana is one of the one of the like prana, but it's moves the circulation, the colon, intestines, urinary bladder, genital system, and the app is vitiated when they are cause diseases. And if you look at Google of under auto intoxication, it's roundly poo pooed, and it's not even found at all and in up to date, but it's synonymous with auto toxicosis, endogenic toxicosis, hetero toxication, intestinal intoxication, self poisoning. So and then I'm liking me today. Pardon me?

Unknown Speaker  41:36
Any event.

Speaker 3  41:39
Auto intoxication has been around for hundreds and 1000s of years, and one of the best ways of toxic up our system is,

Unknown Speaker  41:52
I think here,

Speaker 3  41:56
fasciolopsis, busky, the giant intestinal fluke, will as we all mentioned, it's endemic to much of the world, especially Southeast Asia, but it's found its way here, and I'll show you where it lives here in a Minute. But it can cause irritable bowel syndrome, diarrhea, constipation, right upper quadrant, pain, nausea, vomiting, gastroparesis, intestinal bloating, especially after meals, food sensitivity, weight loss, starvation, anorexia, bile duct obstruction. And there is a photo micrograph. This guy can actually get fairly large, up to four to six centimeters. And again, it's been found in 51 countries. Some endemic areas can reach 100% infection sources under Cook, sea vegetables, fish and pork, but especially any real rare meats can have it. And again, it's routinely missed in routine gi evaluations. Again, the common symptoms, IBS, right upper quadrant, bloating, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, but also brain fog and psychiatric disturbances, gastroparesis, weight loss, against psychiatric symptoms and chronic disease. And there's the life cycle. It can hide out in various parts of the life cycle, in bio films and in other parts of the body. So the Fluke is something that I had not really thought about until the last few years. Now. To find it, you have to do besides energetically, look at stools, do adeno aspirates in the bile. There are PCR tests What are developed but not routine. CAT scan may show liver nodules or calcifications. Ultrasound may show leaf like flukes, Bill airy stones, duct abnormalities and possible bile duct blockages. Now, the Fluke lives right around in here, in the small intestines, in the duodenum, right by the ampulla of water, and the bile duct comes right in here, along the pancreatic and the common duct and bile is alkaline. And if we don't get enough alkalinity onto the food, then the pancreatic enzymes go, Hey, this is not my union. I'm not going to digest this food, and so we get a digested food, so the carbohydrates ferment, blow up, make gas and cause pain. And lot of people think that the bowel only registers pain when it's stretched. You can burn it, you can cut it, and it doesn't recognize pain, but if you stretch it, it certainly can also, if you have a blown up transverse colon or intestine, and it's sitting right underneath the vagus nerve coming out into the sternum. So instead of that vagus nerve being parasympathetic, if you go sympathetic and tachycardia, shortness of breath, anxiety and all of the sympathetic symptoms that can come from vagus nerve blockages and the fastco rancid cause inflammation, and the proteins can then putrefy and not digest. So all of this is feeding the microbiome, and it goes, Oh, hip, hip array, undigested food, just what we like. And it can make anything that it wants out of it. So you can make a lot of various odd chemicals that cause, you know, intestinal stasis, you know, as well as leaky gut syndrome. So this bad boy sits down in here, and I'll tell you more stories about it here in just a minute. Well, back in 1991 I read into this book here for all cancers, by holda Clark, and I thought, how crazy. And the first thing that she mentions in there, and I let me just read to you an acknowledgement in that book. And I would like to express my sincere gratitude to duck Frank Jerome DDS for the loan of his parasite slide collection, if he had not made a slide of paciolopsis busky in his student years, and if it had not stored his slides carefully for three decades, finally, to loan them to me and generous offer, none of these discoveries would have been made. Most of these cancer patients could not have regained their health without his development and new metal free dentistry. But she knew about this, and she has 100 cases of solved or cured cancer in there, but her major tenant is, you gotta kill the fluke.

Speaker 3  47:15
And I don't this was, I don't know, eight or 10 years ago, seven years ago, this is a very stunning case, and I've seen this whole lady's family, but she was a 72 year old lady came in with a 25 year history of irritable bowel syndrome, bloating, vomiting, abdominal pain, With daily vomiting for seven years, and she would has been to every gastroenterologist, UC Davis, UC San Francisco, Stanford, Mayo, and she went and gone multiple endoscopies, biopsies, cultures and imaging with no cause identified. So she was just suggested she was just delusional, and dismissed as a psych patient and prescribed benzodiazepines and antidepressants. Well, we're going to come up to our favorite star of the show here, prasaquantel. I'll give you the remind me to give you the brand name after the CMEs, but she took a one day dose of Praziquantel three times per day, four to six hours apart with food, and the next day she had complete resolution of all of her symptoms and no more nausea and vomiting, no reoccurrence after seven years and the frequent ER visits for vomiting stop permanently. That doesn't get your attention, you know, wow, I can't believe it. So the, oh, another nice case, a mysterious jaundice case, and we save all sorts of gallbladders doing this and all, all sorts of abdominal pain. But here's a 36 year old male with a billy Rubin of 11.6 and as we know, normal Billy is under 1.1 and his GI guys had tested him for hep, A, B, C, autoimmune hepatitis, and they were all negative. There was no evidence of Bill air obstruction and about the next thing that was going on was to do a, maybe a pancreatic biopsy to rule out cancer. Big clue. He was an avid bow hunter, consumed wild boar and red meat, and I saw the rest of his family and his wife, sales and raised dogs. He had 59 dogs, cats, goats, sheep, horses, and then he would consume the wild boar meat and venison rare and so again, we treated him with one day of prazaquantel, and within 10 days, his Billy Rubin normalized to one, and all of his jaw just totally receded. And the biopsy was canceled, and he had a full recovery. So again, that absolutely got my attention. So their fasciolopsis is identified, I think, in one out of every two or three IBS patients that I see, again, the carbs gap promote gas and stretching of the bowel. It resembles gallbladder colic or left to right lower quadrant pain or hypogastric pain, and frequently pressing on the vagus nerve, which may promote cardiovascular pulmonary symptoms, undigested proteins putrefiend The fatsco rancid. So it's frequently overlooked by gastroenterologist relying solely on standard labs and endoscopy. So we get dramatic resolutions, often just after one day of Praziquantel treatment. We frequently do a liver gallbladder flush after but the dosage of the Praziquantel is 25 milligrams per kilogram in three divided doses, and it is paid here in Reno in especially in one of our compounding pharmacies. Now natural alternatives, Doctor old good old holder Clark would go with black walnut clothes and wormwood and her black walnut tincture would require three to three times a day dosing for three months of consistent use. And as I say, I'm love herbs, but Prada prasaquantel Does it in a day or two and offers obviously quicker results with much better patient compliance. So if you know, it's very difficult to diagnose this, but if somebody walks into your office with abdominal pain and right upper quadrant pain and a negative gi workup and ultrasound of say, well, you got a few little gall stones in there. It could be gall stones, as we always say, that's no fodder for your surgeon. Well, we better take it out. We don't know, and fully 40 or 50% of gallbladder symptoms are the same before and after cholecystectomy, according to good research. So now just to say that when we do this fasciolla, the Praziquantel for the fluke, it's good to take a day off, and probably a good day not to drive. It could cause some nausea or dizziness or drowsiness or fatigue. Some people could get some abdominal pain or diarrhea, or some people even get PTSD. And for some people, it's not the most pleasant thing, but, but I give this to children, two and three year olds won't eat. If they eat, they vomit, can't eat. And again, we can test this very readily with EAV. And again, we can put this into a tincture or into a solution, and feed it into little kids one way or another, and honey or apple sauce. And again. So I think it's very, very safe, even for young ones. But again, I test browser quantum against everybody before I give it to them. And some people energetically are not ready for it right off the bat. So we do more strengthening and work with, you know, thyroid, which, like a lot of you guys, I think not half of all of our people need and adrenal support and some nutrients, and then wait a couple of weeks and then see if it, if it's ready to test again. But most people do very well. Visited for a day and are thrilled to get their digestion back. Now, I always thought I just had the worst food allergies in the world now I can eat anything, doctor, and nothing bothers me. So it gets rid of a lot of food allergies and food sensitivities and the gastroparesis, you know, just everything sits on my stomach, and gastroparesis can be gone in a few days. So if you have some, suspicions that it could be a fluke. Again, you can get Praziquantel. You can have somebody give you some. You can muscle test it. But it's, it's usually a one day treatment, and it's, I think it's very, very worthwhile. So

Speaker 3  55:01
alright. Speaking of flukes, here is West ergonomus, West Germany. And this is a lone fluke, and a lot of times we'll find it from people have a history of eating venison or sea vegetables. And again, it's chronic, acute and chronic lung disease after usual lung therapies are no longer effective, so chronic asthma, chronic COPD and sometimes with lung lesions and granulomatous lesions in the lungs. And, you know, biopsied negative, so shortness of breath, wheezing, and actually, I think I've turned around a couple of pulmonary hypertension patients doing this. You know, where does pulmonary hypertension come from? And nobody knows. So this is another Prozac water treatment in a two or three day dosing. I usually try two days, and again we have people back in in two weeks, and I recheck the fluke, the intestinal fluke, or the lung fluke, and see if it energetically, is still weakening the person. And if it is, we do it again. But if it's no longer as weakening them, we move on to some other fun infections, of which our patients have Legion. And here's echinococcus, another fluke, and this can cause chronic, refractory sinus infections. So once again, have they been to the ENT and they've had surgeries and have been mold treatments, antibiotic treatments, allergy treatments, and nothing works anymore. It can be the echinococcus mole of fluke and again, it's a one day treatment. Now. Babesia, and this is generally a co infection of Lyme, and I think it's worse than Lyme. And again, a lot of fatigue, malaise, fever, sweats, myalgia, shortness of breath. And microscopy, you can see this guy under microscopy, PCR test for it, serology test for it. And you just have to have a degree of suspicion. And it can be any insect bite. Doesn't have to just be a tick, any insect bite, and the treatment is azithromycin. 250 bid, twice a day for 10 days, along with a Tova clone, which is an anti parasitical 750 milligrams per five ml, twice a day or 10 days with a fatty meal. And you not always dairy, so olive oil or avocado, and again, it's usually not a very tough detox. And the Etobicoke is a bright yellow, fluorescent yellow liquid that, again, can be got at several pharmacies here in Reno, you have to kind of groom the pharmacist. Otherwise, they'll say, I've never heard of a 12 o'clock and I don't if you only want 100 ml for 10 days, but it comes in a 220 ml package. I'm not breaking down a 220 ml package into 100 ml and so and it'll take me three weeks to get it, so it's sometimes a little difficult to find it, and grooming a pharmacist over time is a good idea. So Babesia my karate. And I think the the fatigue to it is, I think it's even worse in malaise is even worse, and it accompanies a lot of shortness of breath to it. And again, you can diagnose this immediately on EA, view computer, christosomiasis, Manzoni. And ever say, isn't that a South American and African disease? And it is a fluke, but it's here. I like clean hearts description. He says, Oh, we can find this in the most pristine lakes in Switzerland, and it comes especially in fresh water, especially kids that like to swim in lakes and ponds, or that are coming from a less pristine background, and are drinking contaminated water. And it can go right across this the skin. And again, you can see this under DarkField Microscopy as well. It likes to inhabit the urinary tract, so again, UTI is blood and urine or stool, and I do think it can be involved in infertility as well, also cause hives, fevers, myalgia and a dry cough. So usual blood test or DarkField Microscopy and blood test, but schto is here, and again, another one of these unsuspected illnesses from Fluke and flukes are a big deal worldwide, and they are here.

Speaker 3  1:00:34
Another favorite is scabies. And this scabies come from the Latin scabrera to scratch, and it's a lovely picture here. It's an age legged mic causing intense itching, enhanced groin and axilla, and it can be very chronic, but it can cause severe itching, red bumps, burrows, all sorts of skin lesions, various skin lesions, especially wrists and waist. The usual diagnosis is skin scraping and microscopy, but it's a very under diagnosed dermatitis. Says, Oh, you have food allergies. Oh, it's just you know, it's just a regular dermatitis, but it can be extremely serious. It can be very chronic. People go on with this for years, especially we find it in people who have just cleaned out grandmother's house and have just moved around a bunch of old furniture or old carpets. They can find it in those types of places so it can hide out. Now, the usual treatment is permethrin cream. 5% is due as head to toe, scalp to the bottom of the feet, leave on 10 to 12 hours, and then usually let it dry, sleep and then wash off a shower off. It could be done weekly, bad cases, maybe twice a week. And again, you can get the permethrin at any pharmacy. And again, if you wanted to check permethrin energetically against your patients, you can ivermectin is another one. And for ladies, usually give 12 milligrams. Guys 15, and you can have this made at your compounding pharmacy. And usually twice a week, is good. Orally, you can also make an ivermectin cream with with it, you can make it also with the B vitamins in it makes it a little less pricey. It is a bit pricey. There is a new anti schematic on the market called spinosad, and that I've had sort of mixed results with. But there's an enzyme spray, which I'll give you the name of at the end here. But it's mixed enzymes, and it digests the calcium carapace off the off the scabies mite, and that can be sprayed directly on lesions, and supposed to keep the lesion kind of wet. It comes in a concentrate. And you can use a quarter cup of the concentrate that you get online, very inexpensively, and add that to the laundry. So all clothing and bed clothing should be treated, you know, as well. But again, this is a this is, frankly, even missed by a dermatologist, and this intense scraping and so intense scratching. So it's a great to be very sensitive to the fact that it's going around. And if it's chronic, it became people deal with scabies for years and years, and it can be very debilitating. And sometimes, actually, a little cortisone cream on the on the lesions is not all bad, but scabies is a bad boy, and they lot of times you can feel it moving around under the skin. And when people tell you they're seeing things move around under the skin. Sometimes escapees. And when you people tell you they see worms in their stool or coming out their nose, believe them, these guys can go everywhere, especially they all have life cycles and can hide anywhere. So when people tell you they're seeing especially, we'll talk in a minute about worms.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:40
They are there,

Speaker 3  1:04:42
all right, round worms, tape worms, pin worms, whip worms, things are very common. Usually come from contaminated foods, household exposures, and, of course, animals, excuse me, of course, diarrhea, bloating, abdominal pain, poor absorption, hepatobiliary symptoms, pancreatic and pulmonary issues. Now, treatment frequently is over the counter powder until Pam oh eight. You can use this for kids with the, you know, itchy bottoms from the dog, and also Albendazole, which is fairly available here. There are various pharmacies that have it, and I usually use the 200 milligram twice a day for 1010 days. There are some of these worms and pin worms that suggest just two or three days for two doses and repeat in a week. The the Cadillac of all these azoles has been midazol and that can run 1500 $2,000 but sometimes it's worth it with chronic parasitism, and sometimes you can find chronic worms and parasites, especially in ulcerative colitis, And chronic Crohn's and other colitis can be caused by tapes or roundworms. 10 worms, I've been able to turn around a number of cases of chronic colitis by treating the round worms, tape worms, you know, and people that what have their dog poop in the backyard and walk around barefoot, ooh, and start getting issue bottom, no pin worms.

Speaker 3  1:06:52
Oh, another favorite, giardia. Again, it's harder to diagnose, but again, a lot of times we see chronic diarrheas. And again, it can be you know people, be you know, outdoors people, but it can come from any contaminated food or water, and certainly people that are drinking out of contaminated streams can be more at risk for this guy, and but it's severe diarrhea, and especially fatty stools, Fatty, floaty, frothy stools, and especially after travel a lot of times third world countries. And again, the treatment is azithromycin, Bactrim or Flagyl? Veteran is all and again, when you're able to test these various antibiotics to see which agrees better best with the patient, it's very handy, and it saves a lot of time of trial and error. And the azithromycin did work? Oh, we've gotta go to the ventronidazole, but it saves you a lot of trial and error time. And then you can diagnose the audio, you know, right on your computer if you wish.

Speaker 3  1:08:13
Oh, the big boy, Lyme disease, Borrelia burgdorperry. And you know, this may be a man caused disease from the the

Unknown Speaker  1:08:26
naval

Speaker 3  1:08:28
repository in the Connecticut River in the 70s, 80s, and it was. It may have been a man made disease, maybe, but to call it the great imitator of many diseases that everybody knows about, mast cell activation syndrome. Mast cells are white cells that contain a lot of histamine and inflammatory compounds. So this means that it can attack every organ system in the body, Gi, Gu, skin, CNS, respiratory. It can attack any any part of the body. And so this the great imitator, and a lot of people remember tick bites, but it can be also spider bites, deer flies and even mosquitoes. Repeated mosquito bites sometimes can have Borrelia in them. So again, people come to us with chronic fatigue, chronic myalgia, chronic muscle fatigue, muscle pain, anxiety, depression, and they've tried everything and nothing works. And they've even had Lyme blood tests, which frequently can be false negatives or positives. So the Alyssa and the western blot five bands is, you know, not always that necessary to give a positive Lyme diagnosis. And again, a high index of suspicion is very important. So we see a lot of Lyme. And again, this is, you know, everybody has looked at me, and nobody can find a cause of why I'm so chronically ill, doctor, it is frequently lying, sometimes mixed with Babesia. So there are many ways of treating, and some people do Lyme for years, but we find just doing azithromycin, 250 daily for 30 days is usually very helpful, and we usually add in the Cowden Dr Lee cowdens protocol of unkaryatomentosa, which is CASC with comp Chandra angustifolia, which is another antibacterial herb from the from Peru and desmodium molecule. I'll give you the regular names they use for them here later, but that's a drainage remedy. Now, we all know about die off and die off, or the herzheimer's reaction. And the doctors, Jerry said, herzheimer's the 1890s treated syphilis with intravenous mercury and intravenous arsenical compounds, and it worked very well, but the patients would frequently have very high fevers for several days and hallucinate and have seizures and lots of fun stuff. So that's everybody knows about herxing. So this, when you take these drops of the the Cowden protocol, you start with a drop in three to four ounces, two three times a day, and increase by a drop a day, till you get up to 15 drops, two to three times a day, 12 days on, two days off. And if you start getting the die off reactions, we drop the dosage of the drops back and then add the desmodium in half an eye dropper, and usually within 3040 minutes, the die off, symptoms will alleviate and go away. So we've usually get through Lyme in about a month, and sometimes it needs to be repeated, and sometimes they come back. But think that is a very helpful protocol. H Pylori is another one that is tough to diagnose. The breath testing can be iffy. The blood testing can be iffy, unless it's absolutely negative. If it's positive, it can be a recent, you know, autoimmune IgG IGA positive, but it can cause all sorts of GI symptoms, and especially chronic gastritis and ulcers. And the two docs that first found this in Australia in the 80s, one the Nobel in, I think, 1991 for their discovery of this. And initially the GI docs went crazy. Said, No, it doesn't cause ulcers or irritable bowel or also can cause autoimmune disease. And of course, in its worst phase is gastric cancer. But also, I think, rosacea and other autoimmune illnesses. Now the standard treatment is the Bismuth quadruple therapy with proton pump inhibitors and multiple antibiotics, and we have found a good treatment in our clinic using mastic gum, Berberine hydrochloride, bismuth citrate and zinc carnosine for about a month, twice a day, and usually get rid of all The GI symptoms that are surrounding helicobacter h pylori, another unsuspected source of chronic fatigue is Epstein Barr Virus. And again, there are other viruses that go along with it, frequently, adenovirus, the common cold and flu virus, coronavirus, one of the viruses that was made famous by our old buddy, covid, 19, Cox, Jackie and kids that can affect the heart and heart arrhythmias, cytomegalovirus, Echo virus, enterovirus, herpes virus, herpes one, two and Zoster shingles. So these are all common, but some people think about half the population is infected with Epstein bar, and so when people come in Doctor, I have no energy. I'm chronically fatigued, everybody's worked me up and can't find anything, and that EBV actually does turn up positively on blood tests frequently. But again, how to treat it? So we treated with intravenous hydrogen peroxide, intravenous ozone, then integrative intravenous vitamin C, 25 or 50 gram vitamin CS. And we have, we have inherited the knowledge of a homeopathic combination and of of a, 6c, 12, C, 30, c2, 100 C, of all the above 10 viruses. And again, there's no viruses in it made on a computer. It's just frequencies to stimulate the body's immune system. And we use a 10th of a cc subcutaneously to spleen, six, which is a acupuncture point for finger breads above the medial malleolus. And we alternate sides daily till improve. So we hand out 12 little insulin syringes. They turn up a 10th of a CC and shoot that point. And frequently, within 234, days, the energy has changed a lot, and I use them all the time. If I get blasted by a patient with the virus and I notice my energy drop, I'll test my my virus shots and do one. And usually within 2030, minutes, I feel better. So it's a great has a great lineage to it comes from a number of homeopaths down the years in Reno

Speaker 3  1:16:31
now, fungi and mycotoxins. Again, those, these are the other bugs that are harder to diagnose, and we love Dr Andrew Campbell, who's appeared several times on this forum, who always reminds us that mold is the gun. Mycotoxins are the bullets and his, of course, his other statement is using, there's no data for binders, so one of our early mentors in this business always recommended cola styramide And, and subsequently, we've used the other binders and but again, it takes a long time, and cholesterol means have to take it away from food, and it's toxic to some people, and you try to get it so that it's organic, but we have found much better results with the azoles, which is what Dr Campbell suggests. And so the we check for Aspergillus, black mold Candida. And everybody with a sweet tooth, by the way, the sweet tooth homeopathic is our gentle nitricum, you know, 6012 C, 30 C, and we can really help people out with their sweet cravings. Penicillium notatum tachybotrys, the giant black mold, coccidio mycosis coccidioid is imatus valley fever, and we find lots of valley fever in a persistent lung illnesses. It's common in the Central Valley, but it's also very common in Arizona Phoenix area, and I think it's not uncommon in the Reno area as well. I have a chronic gal with chronic lung disease, and she,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:32
I think she grew up in the Central Valley, and she went to her pulmonologist, and he looked at her lungs

Speaker 3  1:18:40
especially, I says there's soil in here and there's something growing on it. But he didn't treat her for valley, but that was pretty awful. So the IgG serum is not always revealing, but again, you can check on your computer about coccidio, Lycos, imatus. And again, this requires, usually two to six months of therapy using azoles. And I'm more fan of intraconazole and it it's 100 milligrams twice a day for many of these moles. And fluconazole is effective if patients don't test well for intraconazole. But fluconazole is a fluorine substance. And, you know, we don't love fluorine substances as much. So this is another thing I'm everybody's missing the fungus and the mycotoxins. So all these guys are unsuspected illnesses that frequently go undiagnosed and untreated. So ladies and gentlemen, I hope this inspires you to explore hidden infections in both acute and chronic illness. And I always remember the Socrates saying, life is short, but the art is long. And I'm sure he was referring to the art of medicine. So we all have to thank our mentors and teachers for teaching all this great information. And again, to thank Dr Clearfield for this outstanding forum. And again, I'll give you my contact information when we are through with the the the educational portion of the of the of the talk here, so take it away at our Clearfield.

Bill Clearfield  1:20:41
Thank you, sir. That was great. Question. Can EAV diagnosis be done virtually by sending you a hair sample?

Speaker 3  1:20:52
Yes, probably okay. And I The other thing that's, you know, kind of off the wall, but for babies, I just have the babies sit in the mother or daddy's daddy's lap and test mom or dad. And it seems to really work well for me over the last 20 years. And then when kids get to be four or five, they could easily stand pressure on their fingers of the the the

Unknown Speaker  1:21:23
device, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:21:28
prazoquantel is a any helmet medication commonly used to treat parasitic infections. I actually looked it up while you were were talking. You can get it, you like it at the vet store, sort of like, you know, ivermectin,

Speaker 3  1:21:45
you know, I haven't done it, but I think that's true. Well, I like, I guess when we get through with the the the testing, or the your medical part of this, I can give you the name of the places that we use here in town, if you'd like. We'll get we'll

Bill Clearfield  1:22:07
get it in a few minutes. Okay, what is your opinion of the F scan device to detect pathogens?

Unknown Speaker  1:22:16
You know, I haven't used it.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:20
Okay? And can you use Colloidal Silver for fungal infections, orally or topically?

Speaker 3  1:22:27
Absolutely and in and inhaled? No, absolutely, yes. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:37
And Dr nary, you got anything online?

Benoit Tano  1:22:39
I have a quick question. Dr Clearfield, yes. Dr Gerber, this is great in the paragunimous infection of the lungs. Do you check the eosinophilia to see if they have peripheral eosinophilia in their blood?

Speaker 3  1:22:58
Not always, occasionally, but not always. Yeah,

Benoit Tano  1:23:02
because we're treating a lot of lung diseases, asthma, eosinophilic asthma, we're giving them all the big guns, like biologics. And I was wondering, I have always wondered, if those eosinophilic asthma are due to some parasites in the lungs. We know that strongy Dog is, for instance, affects the lungs, and sometimes that can lead to some asthma flare, but we never really check those parasites, like you're saying, and we don't treat them as such. We keep on giving them big guns and we, instead of giving them simple things that can cure them,

Speaker 3  1:23:45
yeah, the Paragon is the lung flu. You know, I was just been reading the a Midwestern Doctor stuff on Mergo Mercola and on sub stack, and he's been recommending DMSO for everything, and we use it, you know, with cancer patients and as anti inflammatory and as a, you know, a method to transport stuff to the skin. But he's recommending, and I've just started to try it, and I, I can't be very strongly positive about it, but DMSO also in inhaling in diluted with water as an anti inflammatory for COPD and chronic Asthma. You know DMSO? Yeah, yeah, I do dimethyl sulfoxide. Yeah, I know that. So he's been recommending that in people's inhalers.

Benoit Tano  1:24:51
Interesting, okay, very good.

Speaker 2  1:24:54
Dr Gerber, I just wanted to make a reminder that doctor Tanner just wrote a book on DMSO, perhaps other drivers. Oh, gosh, can we? Can we announce that, at least that you're working on that? Doctor Tano,

Benoit Tano  1:25:12
yeah, of course. Yeah, no problem,

Speaker 2  1:25:14
yeah, because it's really the book is way, way ahead of the game, but it deals with DMSO as a driver to apply homeopathic to acupuncture points. So you common, you combine acupuncture with the homeopathic, and you do that through the DMSO, through a micro drop, very, very small drop on the point. And it's very efficient, very cheap, and it works well and quick, wow. Anyway, Dr Tanner has been leading that, and Dr James and Dr Quinn is the head of the research committee that's kind of overseeing all this. And are you going to be able to make it to our meeting in December and Reno. Doctor Gerber.

Speaker 3  1:26:04
Oh, I am in Reno, and I'm president of the Nevada homeopathic integrative Medical Association, so we should be putting up a third of the speakers.

Speaker 2  1:26:14
Oh, my God, thank you, at least

Bill Clearfield  1:26:19
Wonderful, wonderful. And then we get Dr Tanner to do the other another third, right? So you better just another day ending in a why for him. So, okay, um, what else do we have here? Uh, preferred stool test for parasites.

Speaker 3  1:26:41
It's the parasitology lab. It's in Mexico. It's run by an Egyptian, old Egyptian, friend of ours. And I, you know, I lax and not giving getting the exact name of the lab, but it's parasitology lab.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:57
When we're done, we're done the didactic portion here.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:02
We're done didactic.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:04
We're didactic. You're, you're the didactor. At the moment, one doctor treats Epstein Barr Virus with argentin 23 IV. So that's a silver, right? Colloidal Silver, you

Speaker 3  1:27:17
know, I have not done much IV silver. I think I should, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:27:27
one patient told me she got treated with Argentine IV. The doctor gave to her IV Argentine, and it treated her. And

Speaker 3  1:27:38
and we use IVF synthetium from Germany, or one of my colleagues uses it especially for cancer,

Speaker 7  1:27:48
Argentine, yeah. I mean, somebody told me the Vitamin Shoppe when I was in upstate New York, that Colloidal Silver is good for cancer too.

Speaker 6  1:28:00
Yeah, you don't give colloidal IV. Argentine is silver, hydro, solid, dissolved silver, 23 parts per million. Never give colloidal IV.

Speaker 7  1:28:09
Oh, yeah, yeah. She She just had colloidal, but she said that a colloidal, you can take it can help with the cancer too, but oral, she was referring, she was referring to oral. But I, yeah, I know when I was to a conference with ozone, there was a man that had Colloidal Silver, Argentine and sugar and copper, and he was saying that we can give IV and it's good for Mersa too.

Speaker 6  1:28:40
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you can do IV argentin. We did the pioneering study in that about over 10 years ago, and used to give IV silver for a lot of different things, but it was, again, it's silver hydrosol. Don't, don't mess with colloidal colloid is, is particles dissolved, and you don't want

Speaker 7  1:29:01
that, okay? And they said it helps also with Ms. But I'm not sure which one I think it was the colloidal silver or the copper.

Speaker 7  1:29:17
We we still don't know so much about these two products. I mean, that could be one conference one time.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:30
There's a question Michael about, can you give DMSO inhalation for lung cancers?

Speaker 3  1:29:37
I've not tried it. I've just been aware of that for a couple of months, and I've just heard about it for COPD and asthma, but it makes sense. I know it's given in Doctor Who, Dr Devlin here, does add it to some of his IVs to treat cancer patients as an adjuvant.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:03
How do you treat econococcus again?

Speaker 3  1:30:07
Same thing, the Prozac lenthal or off so it's billtricide. Is the brand name.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:20
What is your dilution ratio for DMSO inhalation?

Speaker 3  1:30:26
Again, I'm just reading a Midwestern doctor, but they start 7030 water DMSO, and then 5050, daily for a week, and then twice a week. I'm just getting people started on it, so I haven't had much feedback on it yet, but I do like DMSO IV for chronic inflammation. You know, five CCS, 99% you know, a compounded DMSO for inflammation, all total body pain and inflammation has been quite, quite helpful. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:31:04
Dr Chandler, a resident biological dentist, states that, okay, this is a brand name. I'll hold off on that until we're off. So I'll read it. I'll read it a little bit later. Dr, nary You got any email questions? Yes,

Speaker 4  1:31:19
so. Dr Herber, thank you for that great presentation. The one of the questions would be, of course, there are integrative stool tests out there. Integrative medicine that we are very familiar with, is that something that you're using, are you just using the regular lab for quest stool testing,

Unknown Speaker  1:31:40
I just use EAV,

Speaker 4  1:31:42
oh, no, not even a stool test. Basically, rarely,

Speaker 3  1:31:46
you know, if we need to, you know, prove a point, we can try it. But again, once you treat somebody, the stool test is now negative, you know, so and people would walk in with, you know, screaming, diarrhea and abdominal pain and right up quadrant pain, nausea and vomiting are not likely to like to wait for, you know, two, three weeks to get a stool testing result back before you treat them.

Speaker 4  1:32:13
Right? And as as the yielding of the lab core quest for this regular stool and parasites very low, because I have seen tests that turns out to be positive in the integrative testing panel versus just the regular ones that we use in the lab. So and again, EAV is another method definitely that is great to be used in this aspect. So when you mentioned about these parasites. There was a question here, because we have people from Southeast Asia, are you seeing more of these cases in relation to travel or by being in the US alone? Would that already be a risk factor for them to have these parasites? We all know that the US is not a third world country. What have you been seeing in your case? Surveys, absolutely

Speaker 3  1:32:59
both, especially military folks that have served in Southeast Asia seem to be bringing it back, or people that have just traveled a lot to Southeast Asia and been to India and Nepal and China, and bring back, you know, upset tummies. See that a lot. But for some reason, it's many of these guys have found their way here. And, you know, I think, you know, the round worms, the tape worms, have been here forever, and and the animal worms, and the pork worms, Trichinella, all these guys have been around forever. So I think probably nothing new under the sun. We're just starting to look more for it. But and, and the, the the IBS, irritable bowel syndrome, people seem to have become much more frequent, appearing appearance in our clinic.

Speaker 4  1:33:55
Right? As you all know, IBS is kind of a waste basket. Diagnosis thrown out gi docs out there because they don't know what it is. And from the sound of it, there's definitely a basis for this in your approach. And again, as you can see, parasites does not discriminate anymore. Doesn't have Yeah, it doesn't require you to be in a specific country. That's why history of travel definitely is one of the bigger parts of our history taking we definitely need to to kind of get in there. So a curiosity about your views about Praziquantel and Etobicoke. Do you check any specific labs for that, or any specific adverse effects that you're noting to see in your patients that our clinicians should be watchful about? Well,

Speaker 3  1:34:36
we also like to do we're refining our liver gallbladder flush. And instead of using Epsom salts, we're going back to using magnesium citrate, which is more gentle, but no. People can get tired and spacey, except don't drive until you check out your driving chops, your driving ability, and again, spacey, tired, maybe nauseous, maybe diarrhea. But fatigue is not uncommon. So this first day, there could be a fair die off. And that's why we like to do a short one day liver, gallbladder flush afterwards for many people.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:18
Oh, nice. So that's after the the round,

Speaker 3  1:35:20
yes, after the Prozac collateral. Oh, wow. Okay,

Speaker 4  1:35:24
that's amazing. And all of these are just oral, right? It's not like, maybe, yup, yup. Okay, wow. That's awesome. Well, you got my list out, Doctor Gerber, and I hope we could see you in the conference. This is amazing stuff, and hopefully you can deliver this also live in person in our upcoming conference on December.

Speaker 3  1:35:46
All right, I'm happy to do this again, if you like. And it's just homeopathy in general. It's a science and an art, and people don't get enough exposure to the the art of it, and, you know, and then just reading people, my other, my other big issue is touching the patient. And I think everybody should take pulse. And we learned Chinese pulse course in acupuncture training. But you know, you can check, you know, an adrenal pulse, which is the third pulse up on the left hand deep, and that's the kidney adrenal pulse, and the thyroid pulse is triple warmer, which is the third pulse superficial on the right hand. And and again, many people don't have a radial pulse at all. They're so hypometabolic, you can't even feel a heartbeat. It's a wrist. So this tells you an awful lot about people right off the bat, and I encourage everybody touch your patient.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:52
Okay? Dr Quinn mentions research on argentin by Dr Eric rents,

Speaker 6  1:36:59
yeah, I've seen, I've seen a ton of research on this. I'm not sure what Dr Chandler found out. There wasn't any research. I've had it in my hands. And

Bill Clearfield  1:37:12
then the next question, what do you use for your liver, gallbladder? Flush, in addition to magnesium citrate,

Speaker 3  1:37:19
uh, olive oil with the juice of a grapefruit. And I, we like to usually put lemon in the we put lemon in the Epsom salts, but lemon probably but the juice of a grapefruit with the so we do 468, the magnesium, 945, olive oil with the grapefruit juice, a grapefruit juiced. Then next day, 6am, 8am, magnesium, and that's it. And then watch out for the diarrhea. Look for the little green stones. Look for parasites. Look for odd stuff coming out. I usually tell people to get a very strong flashlight and look at the stool, because you can see fun little green stuff and yellow stuff floating around.

Speaker 4  1:38:11
Dr Bill, that's your detective game. Or December,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:15
there we go. Okay, alright,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:21
alright, you can have a workshop on that doctor, Gerber.

Speaker 3  1:38:27
Well, you know, the fun thing is, I don't know about you guys, but patience. Bring me in mason jars full of this has gotta be a parasite, you know. And I I just don't get up my guts to go slice them up and look at them under the microscope, but probably should. But people say, Oh, I found a two foot, yeah, I saw a two foot worm come out of me. And, you know, probably a tape. But people talk about worms all the time, and when we do the cleanse of the detox worms frequently come out. I see a number of CIA guys down in the San Diego area who worked in South America, Africa, Central America, Southeast Asia. And they have, you know, awful filariasis, which is the, you know, the little worm that lives in the in the lymph. And they can see them crawling around the lymph, and they like to take ivermectin and other anti parasiticals Two days before and two days after every full moon and new moon, just to try to keep them down. So they have a chronic battle going on. That

Benoit Tano  1:39:35
was one question I was going to ask you, do you combine Praziquantel and ivermectin ever?

Unknown Speaker  1:39:44
You know, I haven't, but it's probably not a bad idea.

Benoit Tano  1:39:46
Yeah, I think it would be a good idea to eradicate some of these parasites.

Speaker 3  1:39:50
Great, great. What would you what dose would you think?

Benoit Tano  1:39:56
Well, you know, I haven't thought of any dosing, but I think it could be a good idea. Even if you do midendazo or the expensive one that you showed in combination with vermectant, it may do a good job compared to one alone.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:15
Thanks for that. Yep.

Speaker 4  1:40:17
Doctor. Garber, you mentioned about this. I've been hearing about this, the full moon, non full moon. How does this affect parasitic activity? You

Speaker 3  1:40:26
know, I don't know if there's any science behind this, but people that have been fighting parasites say they move on the full moon.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:36
I'm excited patients,

Speaker 3  1:40:41
huh? And for Babesia, these are no these are well respected people have been fighting their gut bugs for decades. A lot of them

Unknown Speaker  1:40:50
interesting.

Benoit Tano  1:40:52
So for the barbicia, instead of using gas to Bitcoin, would you also use the malaron, which is a combination of to work on, and another drug with the azithromycin.

Speaker 3  1:41:10
I do use the atollical and azithromycin, especially for Babesia. Yeah, I

Benoit Tano  1:41:15
think malaron would work equally good if you do that with the azifromycin, which is another malaria, but it works really great, I think.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:29
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:36
I don't know what that was for lipid. You see a lot of parasites.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:51
Hello.

Unknown Speaker  1:41:54
Is that a question for me?

Speaker 7  1:41:55
Oh, yeah, I saw something. They suddenly get the lymphedema, suddenly overnight. So I was wondering, what can what is the underlying cause for that?

Unknown Speaker  1:42:08
What happens overnight,

Speaker 7  1:42:09
they get the lymphedema, they are fine, and then suddenly they get lymphedema,

Speaker 3  1:42:17
you know, I mean, I'm not sure it could be any infection. Any infection can be teeth. Teeth cause lymphadenopathy and lungs growing all over the place. So it could, you know, any infection could cause it.

Speaker 7  1:42:37
I know, I know what a young girl who was below and she had normal legs, and then all of the sudden her legs started swelling like lymphedema. And I was

Speaker 4  1:42:52
wondering there's a condition called Phillips. So this is something I've seen in the tropical countries, and this actually produces lymphedema, especially like in the lower extremities, and you use, it's rare. They don't use this much here in the ethyl carbon carbonate carbamazein, I think. But you can also use toxic cycling and Albendazole. So it's one of the, yeah, there you go, elephantiasis. So that's, that's, I guess that's where I've heard lip edema related to a parasitic infection.

Speaker 7  1:43:29
Yeah. So I was wondering if can be caused by other parasites, like, not too tropical, not the classic one, elephantiasis, because that it's extreme. But this one, you know, it's still very uncomfortable, because they cannot even wear a skirt. They have to wear pants. I mean, the legs get swollen.

Speaker 3  1:43:51
Are there gi does a does she have GI symptoms, too? Abdominal pain, bloating, gas,

Speaker 7  1:43:58
no, no. She did not relate it, and she looked otherwise normal. I just did. How old is she? How old is she? Maybe, 2627

Speaker 3  1:44:08
Oh, where does, where does she hail from? Where does she live

Speaker 7  1:44:13
in Florida? She's a she's a nurse practitioner, and she came to train me for something, and then she told me, and I was thinking, what can it cause? What could cause this? I don't know.

Speaker 3  1:44:28
There are. There are certainly a lot of toxins in the surf, bacteria in the ocean that can cause many lymphatic symptoms and a lot of toxicity. So maybe she's a swimmer in the ocean. Oh, I

Speaker 7  1:44:43
am a swimmer in the ocean. I don't know about her, but she might be, yeah, she could be, well, I go to Ocean every weekend, so it's not good. I Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:45:00
Okay, what about membendazole?

Speaker 3  1:45:07
I think it's, it's very good again. It's a little harder to come by again. Maybe you can get it in in, you know, pet stores. It's a little harder to come by. It may be a little more expensive than dissolves, pretty generic,

Benoit Tano  1:45:25
actually, in the tropical country, I mean, like a poor developing country, they all have mebendazole. In the US is kind of difficult to get the business. So I don't know why it was available for a while, but I think they canceled the prescription or something, so it's not available as easily.

Speaker 4  1:45:49
Dr Gerber, you're getting invite to go to the Philippines. There's a lot of parasites there. According to go. Yeah, they'll give you a plane ticket.

Speaker 7  1:46:01
I think Dr William Marcus. He has, he talks about cancer and bendazole, bendazole, and I think he sells it even by pounds. He sounds like powder. Is an oncologist from Canada. He has a sub stack.

Speaker 7  1:46:22
I do not know how good it is, or if it's the quality.

Speaker 4  1:46:26
Oh, Dr Gerber, you can share your source now, because I think we're off, right? That's

Unknown Speaker  1:46:32
your Yes.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:34
Oh, yeah, there. You

Speaker 3  1:46:36
can see all right resources. My EAV testing device is a bio scan, MSA gold 149 and you can get these from international health technology, IHT bio.com IHT bio.com I think they are running sales on them from time to time, but the instrument runs from, I think, 10 to 13k and you pay a $60 a month fee to stay online with them. But I think well worth it. I You can test so many things so very quickly, and especially on your hold on, sir. Thank you, Adam, thank you man. And now the the lime support tinctures that I mentioned the cat's claw at all. We got these from nutra medics. And the name of the cat's claw is cemento, then cumanda, and the drainage remedy is Berber. It's a grass from the Andes, and it drains lymph, liver and kidneys, and generally works really well with the azithromycin. The H Pylori treatment that we mentioned comes from pylocil, which is ortho molecular products. It's got all that stuff in it. And the scabies support enzyme is clean green K with a capital G, clean green enzyme spray, and it's 25 bucks a quarter, 30 gallon and 50 a gallon. And then you dilute it and you just spray the skin. But scabies is another one of those guys that many people suffer from for years, and we usually it takes us, usually weeks to months to get through it.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:34
Okay, so Dr Chandler says they have the scanner, but it's not easy to learn. So

Speaker 3  1:48:42
what can we do about I'm happy to show anybody, but mainly I just test acupuncture Meridian end points on the middle three fingers, and it's basically a resistance device. And so whatever's in the circuit with a patient, either on the hard drive or on the plate. If it weakens the patient, the resistance goes up, and the voltage goes down, and the energy drops. So I'm listening to the pitch so it goes then I know that whatever is in the circuit with the patient is weakening them. And then, if it's a homeopathic, I can dilute it right on the computer, make a homeopathic delusion until the pit stays steady. Pretty basic, but taking me a long way. I think, I really think it's a very, very helpful for the old homeopath as well as the new homeopath.

Speaker 8  1:49:38
And hey, Michael, this is Sean. How long do you think it took for you to become comfortable using that machine?

Speaker 3  1:49:46
I don't know, probably six, eight months.

Speaker 8  1:49:50
Okay, so that's a reasonable amount for people to think about training on. So Well,

Speaker 3  1:49:56
if somebody, if it, I had to pick my way along, you know, and learn from other people doing, you know, doing NSA is where, you know, put your hand on the cradle, and the computer goes through, you know, 3500 things, and you have to sort through. So there, you know, a lot of other electromagnetic testing devices that I had looked at back then, and I'm sure you have too, but then I found the the MSA, and have been very, very in love with it since,

Speaker 4  1:50:35
okay, Dr Herbert, There's a question here, do you have experience with cancer deworming since ivermectin, the bendazole, Praziquantel, tonidazole,

Speaker 3  1:50:44
the three days? Remember I was, I was showing you the the old book here. And Clark thinks that everybody with cancer has the fluke. And in part of I know, Dr Devlin uses anti parasitical drugs that are that are repurposed that but also have anti parasitical properties that are also very valuable for cancer, like ivermectin has some very strong anti cancer properties as well as anti parasitical properties.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:24
Okay,

Benoit Tano  1:51:28
okay. Have you? Have you come across anyone with pancreatic inflammation or cancer that has your tumor pancreaticum and possibility of treating with private or any of those anti parasitic medications.

Speaker 3  1:51:48
Generally, I punt to Dr Devlin here in our office. He has much greater experience with cancer than I so I can't really say exactly, but we do see people that have, you know, elevated pancreatic or or depressed, you know, lipases, amylases, or raised amylases, lipases that improve after We kill the parasite, the fluke.

Benoit Tano  1:52:17
Interesting, because many people think that the urotrema pancreatic arm is actually one of the big basis for pancreatic cancer in the whole world. So

Speaker 3  1:52:29
who is Doctor? Boyd? What's his name? In this started using pancreatic enzyme to treat cancer. You know, 1901, and for Eden, what was his name? Dr Baird. Baird, there you go. And then the dentist in in Texas, best answer to cancer, you know, giving 20 pancreatic enzymes three times a day between meals to digest the tumors. So pancreatic enzymes certainly are have been well received by many cancer treatment specialists.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:10
Okay, well, thank you so much. Michael, that was terrific. Anybody else have any comments questions. Next week we have Doctor Frank Shallenberger, and he's going to entertain us with some of his ozone magic, so that should be pretty interesting. And, oh,

Speaker 4  1:53:33
he's going to be one of our speakers for December. Mm,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:36
hmm, okay. Well, there we go, okay, and yeah. And if anybody has anything they'd like to present, either here or in December, please let us know. We're always happy to have you know new folks on coming up next month, we have Andrew Campbell was was mentioned. Dr de Silva is going to be back. We got Anthony James is going to be talking about his book on AI bias in medicine. And we got somebody talking about spermidine. So Dr

Benoit Tano  1:54:15
Clearfield, when is. Dr James talk, because he was wondering he he doesn't remember.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:21
I have him September 16. This time

Benoit Tano  1:54:25
I said, Okay, I will let him know that. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:54:27
okay, okay, and thank you all so much for being here every week. Dr Nario, we need to get together with Dr Gerber and Dr Quinn and Dr Fung and put this thing together, and maybe we'll let Dr Burgess into for his

Unknown Speaker  1:54:47
expertise. Look forward to it. Anybody

Bill Clearfield  1:54:51
else? So we need to get together soon to get this, get the show on the road, because we got to get to get publicity out. So your name, okay, everybody. Thank you so much. I'll try to get the video up. Dr halasa is in Dubai or Qatar or someplace over that way, and so I don't have a CME link for this week yet, but I'm sure I'll get one when, whenever he's available. So, and the one that was delayed for Doctor Houseman Cohen on on her DNA talk is now up. Should be up, and the link is there also.

Speaker 6  1:55:30
Okay, so Doctor Clearfield, Can I say one thing?

Bill Clearfield  1:55:35
You can say two things, okay,

Speaker 6  1:55:36
I'll start with the one, the research group is going on very strong. I'm not going to get too much into what we were covering there. A lot of it had to do with Dr Burgess's vision of homeo puncture and ways that people can use these, these things on on a personal level. And we went into a big discussion on that, but we also had a pretty big discussion on the upcoming conference in Reno, December, 4, fifth, sixth. Our group is really pushing for this. And Dr Burgess, I'm going to throw him right out there. He had a pretty good plan on maybe using some of us for speakers, including Dr James, Dr Tano and whatnot, just for a short period on this. So I want to throw that out there, just to force Dr Burgess to come forth with this, because I thought was a brilliant idea.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:30
All right, John, you're on then, John,

Speaker 2  1:56:33
we got it covered. I'll send you basically. It takes two hours to cover four major discoveries we've come up with in the last year or so. So I'll get the information to you, Bill and area

Bill Clearfield  1:56:47
All right, so we'll get in touch. We need to have a we need to have a little pow wow for the whole group. So put it all together and and and then start getting the, getting the word out, okay, okay. And we're going to, I'm going to, I'm going to attempt to make sure that we get a, get a, you know, online also. So those who can't short notice, if you can't make it to Reno I know it's holiday season.

Speaker 4  1:57:12
No. The Philippine group, for sure. The Philippine group,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:15
of course.

Speaker 6  1:57:17
And are you accepting sponsors? Just curiosity, of course,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:24
you want our breakfast for free, right?

Speaker 6  1:57:26
Okay, but there is there. There is no, like, vendor section or anything. I don't

Unknown Speaker  1:57:31
know. We do. Oh

Unknown Speaker  1:57:32
no, see, I don't know any of this.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:34
Yeah, yeah. Well, that's why we need to get together

Unknown Speaker  1:57:39
here. Okay, okay, because

Bill Clearfield  1:57:41
not one that wants take backs like we had, we had off, right? That was what group was that John, they wanted their money back. The guy was supposed to give us a talk at lunch. He didn't want to do it, and then he was mad afterwards. It was, it was biotics. Biotics.

Unknown Speaker  1:58:02
Oh, no,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:04
yeah. So we've simplified

Speaker 2  1:58:08
a lot of things. You give us a time and place, we'll be there, Bill, because we need to do that.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:14
You got it okay? All right, we'll get it together. Okay, alright, everybody, thank you all so much. We'll see you again next week, Dr Shallenberger with his ozone magic, and please spread the word. Okay, thanks, Bill. Thank you, Michael, so much. And I will send you the video when it's ready, and I'll send you the part participant list also, okay, good night, everybody. Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai