Bill Clearfield  00:00
And fearless Fosdick is, you know his, he's gets rained on. You can if, yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  00:25
um, you can double it, yeah, you might. Or you just go, like the one and a half, if you take, if you get some ginger, you'll be okay, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  00:50
Yeah, Alyssa, who I

Bill Clearfield  01:10
here's somebody following up on an email she sent to support at Dr clearfield.net requesting thyroid prescription. Where do I even find that? Oh, find

Bill Clearfield  01:26
that Ashley Liao,

Bill Clearfield  01:32
she sent the support@clearfield.net Where do I even find support@clearfield.net

Bill Clearfield  01:51
Yeah, she's not here still. Here Is she? I?

Unknown Speaker  02:44
You've decided That

Unknown Speaker  03:02
on uh, that's true.

Bill Clearfield  04:04
You with you on there. Hey, Carol, how's the How are things

Speaker 1  04:13
ready? I'm recommending a lot of pregnant thanks to you. I give you credit every time I say it. I and good results. People are getting good results.

Bill Clearfield  04:25
Oh, yeah, yeah. It takes a little bit of time, though. It's not instant gratification.

Speaker 1  04:30
No, I say, if you feel like you're not getting any results at all, that's a good thing. Did I tell you 120 year old autistic girl? I recommended that for her. I didn't want her on progesterone because of potential gut issues. She started speaking, and she could speak, but she started having conversations, first time in 20 years, on 400 milligrams, pregnant alone. Okay, thanks.

Bill Clearfield  05:00
Thanks. You can't keep up that dose, but it's a start.

Speaker 1  05:05
When do you when do you lower the dose? I usually give it four weeks, four weeks, and then you go to, what I

Bill Clearfield  05:12
go to, I go to, I go down to 100 you're getting results like that. I would probably cycle it. I'd probably do 400 every three once every three months. So then go down to 100 or 200 in between.

Unknown Speaker  05:26
Okay, okay, yep, thanks. Hey, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  05:33
yeah, hey.

Speaker 2  05:36
Got past question. Either. I take it to grassroots. Now I'm going to get rid of all my books nutrition across the board, from Mercola, Hyman, Suzanne, Somers Bollinger, I mean, ton of books accumulated over the last 20 years. So I don't know if somebody an interest that likes to have a library, you know, for hard, hard copy reading. But Thursday, I'm going to take it to grassroots if I can't find

Bill Clearfield  06:06
Dr Nario is here. You know, maybe the homeopathic board would look, would like to have a homeopathic would like to have a library.

Unknown Speaker  06:16
What is that? What is it? What is that?

Bill Clearfield  06:19
Red City, 20 years away. Is

Speaker 2  06:23
he here locally? He's in Reno Yeah, I didn't know that. Yeah, yes. I was, well, I'm gonna get rid of accumulated, probably about 120 plus, maybe 150 bucks over the years. Oh, wow. Like the two cola Hyman, but I'm just getting rid of all them. I mean, I'm 74 I'm not going to really use them, so I either go to grassroots Thursday or I get rid of them.

Speaker 3  06:52
Oh, that's got quick notice. Oh, you're just spring. You're just doing a major cleanup, huh?

Speaker 2  07:00
Yeah, yeah, consolidating works just, we gotta consolidate,

Speaker 3  07:05
you know, right, right. So, yeah, I will talk to the board about that. I don't think I have store space for,

Speaker 2  07:16
yeah, it's like nine archive boxes.

Speaker 3  07:20
Wow, I'm sure those are good books.

Speaker 2  07:24
Oh yeah. I mean, a lot of good books. The only one I'm keeping is Dr Braley on food allergies and but I may get rid of one that what was the guy the speaker a few months ago down Carson City? Yeah, I've got his book bursting with energy, yeah. So anyway, you didn't mention that book in his resume, but it was a decent book.

Unknown Speaker  07:52
So he has tons, I think.

Speaker 2  07:54
Anyway, Bill's got my address, but I have to have a procedure to test my soft go sphincter on Thursday, so I'll be south of town. But even if you're fairly interested, if you have a place for them, like I said, otherwise, I'm going to go over grassroots, see if they give me, like, 50 bucks, or whatever they give me, you

Speaker 3  08:16
know, oh, yeah, get some money out of it, yeah?

Unknown Speaker  08:21
But anyway, but either way,

Speaker 3  08:24
if you have an email, I can probably I mean

Unknown Speaker  08:31
f shaman, the

Unknown Speaker  08:35
name itself, okay,

Unknown Speaker  08:37
and my personal last name@yahoo.com

Speaker 3  08:40
Okay, so f sheman, that's it. And then Yahoo, yeah, yahoo.com, okay, sure, thank you.

Speaker 2  08:51
I gotta load my car, and I need my car this week, and my son, grandson, I'm coming towns, but I work, said, out of the house. You know, you don't need them get rid we're trying to get rid of stuff.

Unknown Speaker  09:05
Fire hazard,

Speaker 2  09:09
just wait, you know? And that too, it does collectors. Okay, I saw it's already five, so I'll stop talking.

Bill Clearfield  09:17
Okay, it's a little bit of five, so it really wasn't a bait and switch, but I got a call this morning from Dr de Silva that he had some sort of emergency, so he's not able to make it tonight. So our esteemed colleague Stefan Hartman was always eager to jump in. Will give us His wisdom on brain optimization. So I hope that's an adequate substitute. But first, Dr Nario is going to give us our Andrew Weil health and wellness tip of the week

Speaker 3  10:00
I noticed is that your room, I don't see the cabinet. I don't see

Bill Clearfield  10:05
I was away. I was away, and my staff painted

Unknown Speaker  10:12
it. So it's like a

Bill Clearfield  10:15
lot of things, a lot of things are missing. They painted the side wall. I don't know if you can't see it here, they painted, they painted one wall purple.

Speaker 1  10:25
See that? Oh, nice, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  10:29
And the rest is white, and it's so it's so bright, it hurts my eyes. I'm not I'm not used. I'm not used to it this way.

Speaker 3  10:37
So they did a switch and beat on you. They did.

Bill Clearfield  10:40
And there's lots of lots of things that aren't where they where they were, what I left? Yeah, so they found money in my drawer. They left, they said they left it all, but who knows. So we found envelopes with money in it that I didn't I didn't even know that I had and forgotten all about so so anyway, Dr Nario, yeah, take it away.

Speaker 3  11:11
All right. So welcome everyone. So as integrative clinicians, we're always on the lookout for new medicines, and to add to our therapeutic toolbox, as I like to call it, our superhero utility bill. So in the in the program, we're also exploring new drugs and new medicines for integrative practices or even conventional so today I want to introduce a compound you may not have heard of yet. It's called Silver deck side. We can prescribe it in the US right now, but when it eventually lands, here you be that cool clinician who says, Oh yeah, I've been watching so a solo deck side since it was actually in the mainstream. So as we age, one of so this is probably good for Dr de Silva's talk, if he was here as we age, one of the first things to wear out is the endothelial GEICO calyx, a microscopic sugar protein layer lining every blood vessel. So also almost like Teflon for your arteries. So when it's healthy, blood flow smoothly. When it's damaged, your blood vessels get sticky and cranky, kind of like all of us before our morning coffee. So, so solid. Exide is a pharmaceutical grade blend of glycosaminoglycans or gags. It's made of 80% Heparin, like fraction mild anti clotting and vessel repairing, 20% dermatan sulfate, which is anti inflammatory and healing. So this may help repair the glycocalyx without turning someone into a walking bruise like stronger blood thinners can. So the dioxide is well tolerated compared to stronger anticoagulants, like heparin or warfarin, but it does have some potential side effects. Most are mild and reversible. The most common are Gi, since it's Po, yeah, like nausea, stomach pain and diarrhea usually resolving on their own without intervention. So a damaged end of glycocalyx is like an old filter in your water purifier. It stops protecting you and everything downstream suffers, so leading to stiff arteries, higher blood pressure, leaky brain vessels, brain fog, or memory loss, kidney and eye damage, even and even chronic inflammation, leading to inflammaging, as we call it. It's solodexide, acts like a high end spa treatment for your blood vessels, rejuvenating them from the inside out. So clinical research shows diabetes, it can actually be helpful reducing kidney damage and protein loss. This is diabetic medicine. 2002 cardiovascular benefits would be improving vessel function and circulation, clinical and applied thrombosis, 2018, and post covid and sepsis. Even post covid is addressed by this lowers ICU admission rates by stabilizing fragile blood vessels thrombosis and hemostasis 2021 so it's basically a vascular use serum, and unlike that 300 face cream, $300 face cream that you pay for this actually has peer review data behind it. Though, sulodexide is an FDA approved yet in the US, however, patients may legally import a 90 day personal supply with a prescription under the FDA personal use policy, like having a little secret European hookup for longevity care. So it's only in Europe that's available for now. And for now, you can still support the glycocalyx naturally through Remnant sulfate from algae, omega threes and antioxidants like vitamin C and E, polyphenols such as green tea, cacao and resveratrol, nitric oxide boosters like LRG. So again, suicide is in the horizon as a powerful tool for vascular anti aging by repairing the glycocalyx, it targets one of the root causes of aging, protecting brain, heart, kidneys and even your skin. So now, when you hear someone mention solid in the future, you won't be caught off guard, and you can just smile and say, Oh yeah, we're talking about that way back when. So as clinicians, staying ahead of the curve keeps our patients younger, healthier and maybe even a little less grumpier, kind of like a repaired glycocalyx, and that's our Tip of the Week.

Unknown Speaker  15:03
Dr Nario, yeah, I have

Speaker 4  15:06
a question. Did they talk at all about RAM men sulfate?

Speaker 3  15:13
Which, yes, they did. Correct. So remnant sulfate, I think, is something that you would see in a very popular supplement brand out there. So it's from mono stroma nididum. So that's a green algae. And right now, this is the, the closest thing that we have here in the US to replete the the glycocalyx. I mean, we have mentioned the other ones before, but this is the one. This was actually studied even by Dr Houston, it is anti as in hypertension.

Speaker 4  15:44
Institute Mario presented some data that is showing that at five years, this is reversing calcium deposition as well in vessels.

Speaker 3  15:59
And I think the more specific area for that would be more of your carotid arteries, and that's they would monitor this through Doppler, and you would see, really the changes. I mean, at 12 weeks Mark, I think you were ready to be seeing changes in those carotid plaques when you're using remnant

Unknown Speaker  16:20
sulfate. Yep, thanks.

Bill Clearfield  16:24
How do you spell this

Unknown Speaker  16:26
remnant sulfate? Oh, no,

Speaker 4  16:28
H, A, M, N, a n, RAM, Nin sulfate. What about the stuff? We're not able to say what the name of the of the product is, are we on our CE,

Unknown Speaker  16:43
no, it's just, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  16:45
we're not. We're not all it's a brand name, brand

Speaker 4  16:51
name, HP, so it's a R, T, E, R, O, S, I, L, H, P, I've been using in my cardiovascular patients, seen an average drop in BP of around 10 to 11 points diastolic wise. I use it with nitric oxide. Date is a daily supplement. You're going to you're going to be giving a talk about this to us, right?

Bill Clearfield  17:22
Oh, big mouth, now you're in trouble. October 21 October 21 Ken Crowley, high blood pressure. There we go.

Unknown Speaker  17:37
Okay, all right.

Bill Clearfield  17:41
All right, good. We got you we got your schedules. All right, so we'll talk a little bit about the conference coming up at the end. Like I said, Dr de Silva called me this morning. He was very, very apologetic that he can't, couldn't make it at this hour. So you were going to have, you, you were spared from listening to me. So, because we got, you know, our other young, brilliant scientists here, Dr Stefan Hartman, so, you know, who's always got something interesting going on, so and so he's going to, he's gonna, you're giving a talk, and we're in Vienna. You got, you're muted.

Speaker 5  18:29
It will be in Bologna this year, and that will be my lecture

Bill Clearfield  18:32
for today. Okay, all right, and you got a new hairdo too. I see it's

Unknown Speaker  18:36
just growing out, that's

Bill Clearfield  18:38
all. Yeah, you know, you know, it's got that wild look about you. There it is a bit wild. So, okay, so

Speaker 5  18:49
you ready? Yes, let me start recording too.

Unknown Speaker  18:52
Okay, all right.

Unknown Speaker  19:02
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  19:05
all right, it's good. Okay, so take it away.

Speaker 5  19:11
All right, guys, welcome to the another episode of the Clearfield show. It's like to call it tune in every Tuesday for a great show. My name is Stephen Hartman. I'm a PA and owner of iron direct primary care in Indy, Atlantic, Florida. We're an anti aging and functional medicine practice. And today I'm giving you guys a special preview of my lecture. I'm going to be giving in Bologna Italy. You go, if you guys want an excuse to go to Italy, take a CME vacation. It's seventh and eighth of November. In Bologna, fantastic food, great culture, amazing location, really central to, you know, Venice and Florence day trips, really. But this is a conference is going to be focused on brain optimization. So the all the talks will be both Italian and English. And I will actually be giving this lecture in Italian. In Italy, because I speak Italian, today, I'm going to be giving it to you all in English, and I've never really written a presentation like this. You'll see both Italian and English words simultaneously on each slide for this. So I apologize for the Italian writing on it, but the whole conference is about brain optimization, mental health, how to fix that, and they're both international and Italian speakers at this conference.

Bill Clearfield  20:29
One One suggestion, though, in the bottom left there, instead of whoever that is in the tub, I think you should have put Dr halassa in there.

Speaker 5  20:37
I put it. He only spent a second in there. He didn't give me enough time to take a picture.

Bill Clearfield  20:42
It was getting in. This

Speaker 5  20:44
is another doctor who visited me. This Italian doctor, he spent two weeks at my clinic. He stayed at my clinic. And any doctor of you is welcome to come, stay, hang out. You can, it's a home actually, so you can hang out and and do wellness retreats. I want to start getting more doctors to our office and get them into our wellness routine, the exercise, the cold plunge, the sauna, the red light therapy. I want to start teaching doctors how to get themselves healthier so that they can help their patients better. But this is Dr Paula Conforti, you can see in the left quadrant here, and he's he's an Italian functional medicine doctor, and he's organizing the conference as well, so he'll be there speaking. Okay, so there's four pillars, four things I like to frame mental health around. And one is the lifestyle, the diet, the training, the sunlight. We all know about these things. We may not implement them, but we know about them to the second most important one I found is the nutrient deficiencies, which we're going to show just how epidemic This is. And then always there is some level of like a pain, whether it's emotional pain or physical pain. I actually worked in psychiatry for a time, and as a PA, there's a lot of lateral movement. It's one of the best things about the profession is that you can, you can move to different specialties, and you get a whole experience of that. So I worked in psychiatry for a time, and a lot of patients had multiple overlapping diagnosis and there was a trend. The patients typically had a diabetes component. They had a mental health component, and there was oftentimes a pain, a physical pain component, and they're on a sometimes overlapping psychiatric drugs that will both treat the depression, anxiety, but also treat the pain. Because there's, there's always a pain that goes along with it, seems like. And then hormone optimization, because, as Dr Clearfield has lectured many times before, hormones are critical for everything that you're trying to optimize. There's many types of pain. You can have traumatic, brain injury, there's gut inflammation, that's an insult, there's back pain, there's neck pain, there's auto and inflammatory processes. There are a lot of lot of types of pain and inflammations, and we need to address every one of them when we're treating a patient with brain because if there's inflammation somewhere in the body, there's probably a brain inflammation as well. So I've given this talk before, in this, in this, this lecture hall, about the advantages of cold submersion therapy, but I have found it to be one of the most powerful therapies in both conventional and alternative medicine. Again, as a PA I had a bit of lateral movement. I worked in spine surgery and pain management for a time, and we did a lot of spine surgeries. We pushed a lot of corticosteroids in people's joints. We did a lot of radio frequency ablations, and these patients, they would get some benefit from that, but then they have to come back. And there was a lot of problems with these therapies. The results weren't always that great, and there was always an inflammatory component to every one of these patients that I saw. So at my clinic, we've been doing a kind of a case series and assessing people's response to the cold submersion therapy. Now, mind you, we keep ours very cold. It's about 35 to 36 degrees Fahrenheit, and what we found over this case series is that their mood improves. We sometimes get remarkable improvements in their mood, like they'll have like a terrible mood, which will they'll rate as a on a zero, and then after the cold lunch, oftentimes there'll be upwards of a 10, they get this euphoric feeling. And from the neurotransmitters, they the dopamine that's released. It's a it's not a cheap dopamine. It's not like doing a hit of coke. It's not, you know, doing some ecstasy. This is a cold it hurts to get in there, but the reward is a true dopamine response, and it's healthy form of dopamine. But the pain management is tremendous. We'll find, typically, that patients will get a near instantaneous resolution in pain after a cold plunge, whether it's acute chronic, no matter what it is, I've rarely seen I don't think I've actually had anyone not improve their pain within exiting the cold plunge, and you don't get that anywhere else in medicine, no another therapy can, can promise an instantaneous relief in pain. There's some, a lot of studies out there. A lot of the studies are on cryotherapy chambers, where you walk in as a nitrogen can generate really cold temperatures like 240 negative 240 degrees Fahrenheit, used for severe conditions like a decent capsulitis, osteoarthritis, and it works, but they're expensive, so I didn't get that from my clinic. Mine is the cold, and it actually from I've had patients do both the cold, the wet cold, is actually it sucks more than the walk in chambers. So patients who have done both report that it is more challenging to do a cold plunge than a walk in cryotherapy. Here's another one reported a pain improvement, or mood improvement from four to nine the pain greatly interfered with the enjoyment of life. So the patient, if they had gone to a psychiatrist, psychiatrist, would say, well, this patient has Anhedonia. They have no enjoyment of life. We should probably give them some Prozac or something. But this patient through regular cold plunging. In mind, everybody is a member. It's not just a one time thing. The member of this my Wellness Center, they do cold plunge on a regular basis.

Speaker 5  26:30
Arthritis and cryotherapy, the cold therapy has immunomodulatory effects, so when you have a pathological condition that is destroying the joints, like arthritis, rheumatoid or osteo the cryotherapy. It helps with the pain, it can help their movement, and it can actually be disease modifying, because it lowers certain inflammatory cytokines. Here's another patient, 62 year old, pain level nine out of 10 after cold plunge reduced to one out of 10. Mood improvement from three to seven, and pretty, pretty rapid improvement too. What else does cold plunge do? It modifies your white adipose tissue to brown adipose tissue. It's one of the only known therapies to do this. There's no real drug to do this takes hard work. You need to exercise, you need to wait lift weights, but cold plunging can change this inflammatory white adipose tissue that releases so much more inflammatory signals that cause not only pain, but they cause general inflammation. Every every organ system is affected by this white adipose tissue. It's in your it's on your organs. You may not know you have it, but you can. You can change it with difficult things like cold exposure. This is that same patient after 10 weeks of ice therapy, the mood is still great after he does this, and he was doing it for a piriformis and sciatica, which was pretty debilitating. And mind you, all these patients, they've done other things. They've done ibuprofen, they've done chiropractic, they've done physical therapy, some have gotten some pain management procedures done and but the cold is either equivalent or better than a lot of these therapies. This patient in the final school review, he says, This place saved my life. This is very powerful statement, sauna. So sauna is part of the lifestyle pillar. Helps detoxification. It also has a nice growth hormone boosting effect. I don't know if you guys knew this. If you do 175 degrees Fahrenheit, 10 minutes, then take a break, 10 minutes again, you get a nice idea of one Boost, which is great for regeneration and healing. It protects against dementia. This is the why I purchased a traditional finished sauna. I didn't buy a red infrared sauna. I got a sauna based off the literature, which just comes out of Scandinavia, showing that regular sauna use decreases dementia. So that's that's huge. I think all patients should be using sauna on a regular basis. We're so polluted with chemicals while we run the panels, not a single patient has come back with a normal toxic profile. Everyone has toxins. Everybody needs to be detoxing on a regular basis. And sauna is just one of the many ways we can detox through sweating and through increasing your body's temperature, which we all you know, popular media has sensationalized the negative effects of Tylenol. I always tell my patients, we don't treat a fever. We allow the body to naturally warm up when we have a fever. It drives me nuts when parents tell me, I've been treating the fever with Tylenol hyperfin every four hours, like the bottle says, No, you treat the patient if they're miserable, if the child doesn't sleep at night and they're sick with a fever, okay, give them a little bit of Tylenol. We don't treat a fever. Increasing the body's temperature is a natural mechanism. It helps the body detoxify it inactive viruses. So don't get me started on on that sauna to treat chronic fatigue syndrome. This might just be because body is detoxing heavy metals, detoxing pollutants, but it can also help treat chronic fatigue. And I tell you, Chronic Fatigue was ubiquitous. When I worked in psychiatry, every patient had fatigue. And when I worked in psychiatry as a PA, they told me to be a good boy, stay in your lane. Just prescribe the SSRI, don't test hormones, don't give them any vitamins, don't give them even vitamin D, like I got in trouble for advising patients to take vitamin D and folate and B 12. It's nuts. In conventional psychiatry, I only lasted, like six months before they fired me, but every patient had fatigue. And what are you going to do in psychiatry for fatigue or I guess Wellbutrin is a little bit stimulatory. Let's give him Wellbutrin now. It's junk medicine. You gotta treat the whole patient. You gotta. And that's what this whole lecture is about, where you keep getting into that Med and saunas just one of the many tools in our toolkit. Sauna effects on the endocrine system. We talked about earlier, the increased growth hormone levels. So when you have this release of noradrenaline, antigetive hormone, which actually, if you listen to Dr Terry Hertog talk about, he actually will give his patients, sometimes desmopressin. He'll give them some of these hormones that we don't use so much. I don't know if Dr Cleveland has talked about that very much. Maybe talk about that later. But sauna can actually trigger some of these things, growth hormone, beta endorphins, you feel good. Endorphins help pain. Help people feel good. It's good for the mental health. We move on to another one I like, very briefly here, red light therapy, just because it saved one of my patients from suicide. She had terrible trigeminal neuralgia from a herpes virus infected her nerves. She couldn't get any relief. She tried Gabapentin. She was thinking about getting surgery. She was gonna go to Mayo Clinic get this innovative surgery, I guess they're gonna like rhizotomy procedure of the trigeminal nerve. Sounds kind of dangerous to me, but I prescribed her red light therapy, which we have at our office, and she went to a physical therapist, and she had near 99% resolution of her trigeminal neuralgia pain, and she was on the brink. So that's that was pretty powerful. And the red light, the infrared and red light, it has regenerative effects on the nerves. It does penetrate deeper to the through the tissue. If you get up to 688, nanometers, it gets through down to the fascia, the muscles, ligaments, but nerves, especially it's it's fantastic for um healing inflammation and autoimmune problems. So it acts with nerve regeneration, boosts cellular energy, reduces inflammation, improves blood flow, modulates brain chemicals, can help alleviate pain and enhance nerve function. So we love red light therapy. Strength training. I'm a huge fan of strength training. I invite any doctor here listening to come train with me at my gym. I'll put you through the Dr halassa routine. He complained every every rep, but we got him through a session. It was great. Strength training helps with pain. Now, when I've worked in pain management and orthopedic surgery, how many patients do you think walked the door of the 1000s that looked like me? Did they have good musculature? Were they these buff guys who had dead lifted a bunch of weights? Were they there for a spine surgery because they were weight lifting? No, very I don't think we had more than maybe two in the time that I worked there. They were not athletes. These were people that were collapsing in on themselves. They were sarcopenic. They had no muscle so when you get this aging muscle, you get this frailty, you get this collapse. Not only do you have less resistance to gravity, you're collapsing in on your own spine, you're going to have more arthritis, because you literally your facet joints are collapsing in on one another, so you're rubbing it every time you move this way and that. But you have altered cytokines signaling. You have more of this inflammatory cytokine response. And sure, you can take drugs, right? We talk a lot about the repurposed drugs that we could use to modify the inflammatory cytokine release. But if you have a robust musculoskeletal system, you have less of an abnormal cytokine response to various tissue injuries, infections, viruses, bacteria, and so you have a better response, better immune response to to pain, really. And then, of course, the diabetes and insulin resistance. This is another thing I saw all the time in psychiatry. The patients were on Metformin guardians. They were on ozempic. Their blood sugars that were out of control, they all seem to have some level of insulin resistance as well. Very rarely would it be an athletic young man come to me, and they were probably there for ADHD, which is another story, but the depression, the anxiety, oftentimes, the diabetes and insulin resistance goes along with that, and that shares a problem with the lack of muscle, lack of training. They have an altered inflammatory cascade in this

Speaker 5  35:51
insulin resistance diabetic model. And then, of course, the diet. This is an average kitchen inventory that I did back when I did house calls, starting to practice and I didn't I saw this every day when I went to go do house calls. It was processed junk. It was seed oils, fake mayonnaise, high fructose corn syrup, junk. You couldn't find 100 grams of protein sometimes in someone's fridge. I mean, where was the real food. It wasn't there. So people are eating processed foods. So of course, they need to remove that from the diet. They need real foods. It goes without saying, high omega threes, lower Omega sixes. And we all know the benefits of Omega three. Here's just something at a glance, improved neuronal membranes, improve synapses, myelin sheaths, which, you know, those myelin sheaths, they seem to degrade in a lot of these neurodegenerative conditions where you have improper firing, because you This is fatty layer on the myelin sheaths on your nerves, and they degrade, and you have your problems. You get poor motor nerve control. So this is my mom, Manja pesce. She loves fish. She's found that omega threes, specifically from wild caught mackerel, are the best thing for her brain, and specifically wild caught and let's talk about salmon, because she actually went out of her way to figure out how they were farming salmon in Scotland, Norway. So if you get us, if you go to the supermarket and you get a farm raised salmon, or they say it's like ocean raised salmon in Norway, they're feeding them rapeseed oil. So it's not a natural food for the Omega three high fish. So if you feed a rapeseed oil to fish that's high omega six. So the meat profile of that salmon becomes no longer high omega three, like it's advertised, is the high omega six fish, right? We can do blood tests on people, and we can see what they're eating. You can see super low Omega three. You can see super high omega six. And I know exactly that they're not eating Omega three rich diet. The same can be applied to the fish, and then when the fish is high omega six, you're not going to get high omega three from eating that farm raised salmon, unfortunately. So we need to know the quality of where the fish is raised. If we assume that omega three has a lot of benefit, we need to make sure we're actually getting omega three. So Stefan,

Speaker 6  38:26
one thing real fast, yes, please. Dr Quinn, okay. The we might have talked about this before, but the the fish the Omega six, Omega three, basically, the fish doesn't make the Omega three. The fish gets the Omega three from the algae that it eats. So when you have farm fish, they're not eating algae, they're eating pellets or something else like that. That's why they're not getting an Omega three. You're not getting omega three from them,

Speaker 5  38:50
right? Right? Matters a lot, and cooking as well. We don't want to overheat the fish when we cook it, because it spoils and will do nature. It burns. It's a smoking point that's very delicate. So you you will denature your and you will oxidize your fish as well if you cook it too hard. And sourcing your meats matters as well. The grain fed cow has such a problem with liver abscesses that they're attempting to develop a vaccine. Instead of just feeding the cows, right? You put the cow on a pasture and they eat grass like they should. They're not going to grow delivery abscesses. Now I get the argument that cows are only fed grain in the last part of their lives before slaughter, and that's true in some cases. But when you do that, you're going to change their their meat profile when you feed them grains that's typically high omega six. And so their meat profile no longer is omega three. Which grass fed cow should be a decent Omega three meat? But it ends up not being the case too many times. And then I see this all the time, and I'm giving this lecture in Italy, so I might get some laughs out of the crowd there. But we I read these Western medical journals, and oftentimes they'll recommend the Mediterranean diet. You've probably heard that something said the Mediterranean diet, it is the best thing for all these conditions, mental health, diabetes. But what is a Mediterranean diet? It comes to the ingredients. So this is a picture we took in Florence. You can see the gate behind us there. Florence has rules and regulations that require that the restaurants in that area source all their ingredients locally. Italy also bans glyphosate, and they ban bromide. And when they cook the pasta, the pasta is cooked al dente. And so if you have a wheat that's not been denatured with glyphosate and bromide, and then you are not cooking it super heavily and hard either. And so that lowers the glycemic index of the pasta as well. And then there's the slower meals. There is the better wine that doesn't have glyphosate. Like, if you measure the toxicity level of wine from California, it's pretty much all glyphosate ridden, right? It's really big problem, unfortunately. So we, I don't know if it's super easy to recommend a Mediterranean diet here in the US, because these studies, often times, they're done in the Mediterranean. They're done with a lot of variables that are not picked up in these studies. And it, it bothers me so much when these when, when these studies recommend that people do a Mediterranean like, how's that? How's a person in in Melbourne, Florida, supposed to adopt a Mediterranean diet. I don't know how to recommend that, you know, without a lot of painstaking effort to source ingredients. So that's my take on that. So that brings us on to some nutraceuticals, because I like nutraceuticals, because I have really good companies. I know the dosing, and we can get pretty good effects. And we're going to go through a couple of these. Couple of these. So one is synapse in, and you can get this with your compounding pharmacy friends. I love this because it's inhaled through the nose, goes right to the brain where it's going to exert an effect. And people will notice an effect pretty quickly on it. The ingredients are an RG three, which is a ging extract, nicotinamide, riboside nr, and a methylcobalamin, or hydroxycobalamin. We use this all the time in traumatic brain injuries and concussions. We'll use it in inflammatory so neuroinflammation. We'll use it in autism and people have trouble focusing in people with brain fog, and they breathe this, basically brain food right up into the brain, and they oftentimes notice an improvement in their cognition as a brain optimization therapy, lithium orotate. Here's two baths. There's one here in Florida called Lithia Springs, and the famous one in Budapest. Lithium orotate is mood stabilizing, and we're not talking about lithium carbonate. I didn't have too much exposure to lithium carbonate in psychiatry, just because it was so problematic. It required all these troughs, it was toxic, all these side effects with it. I had maybe one patient who I inherited who was on lithium but no one else was using lithium carbonate. It's just too much, too problematic. We're talking about lithium orotate, and it's a it's a mineral that's found naturally in springs. It's essential to the human body, and I think that a lot of the population is deficient in it difficult to test for. I haven't really found too many laboratories to test with lithium over tape. So what I do when I have a depressed patient, when I have an anxious patient, I'll put them on a loading dose of lithium over tape because it has mood stabilization, effects, neuroprotective. It supports neurotransmitters. It helps brain grow. You can take five to 20 milligrams every day as a loading dose, and you will notice the patient will report an improvement within one to two weeks, very quick. Sometimes it works too well. And so patient, if they're on an SSRI already, it might give them too much of a good thing, and they might get a little weepy, a little emotional, actually, from the excess serotonin. So just be kind of careful with that. Kind of a cool study, I think this is done in Texas. They found that there was lithium in the drinking water, and it decreased the incidence of crimes and suicides and violent behavior in this town, magnesium three and eight. We use this one all the time at the practice. Richard, you have a question.

Speaker 7  44:47
Just to point out that they used to put lithium into seven up, which is why it was called Seven Up, because seven is the atomic number of lithium. That's right, seven up.

Speaker 5  45:00
I never drank that. I don't know if they still do lithium in there. Probably not. So mag three and eight. This one is a special form of magnesium that crosses into the brain and it will either work or it doesn't work. Either patient like, wow, this really helps with my anxiety, or it doesn't. Typically, it does work because one people are magnesium deficient. You can measure that one, that one's easy measure the RBC magnesium, or cellular magnesium. You'll find that people are typically around 5.4 or below. You want them between six and up to seven for RBC magnesium, but you can also titrate it. Titrate it to bowel movement. They have diarrhea. You did too much. If they feel good, muscles relaxed. The intrusive thoughts at night, turn off their brain kind of relaxes. You did good, and that's the right dose of magnesium. Take that every night so it's neuro protective. Improve cognitive function. There's a couple ways to do it. You can do oral, you can do sublingual, liposomal which might be important for some patients, which we'll get into a little bit later. It relieves anxiety and stress, improves sleep quality. So I do recommend that one a lot, ketamine, one of the only, as far as I know, psychedelics, we can prescribe at this time. And I urge you all to start incorporating ketamine in your practices. And you don't need to be an anesthesiologist to administer this. We're talking about lozenges. So your local compounding pharmacists ask them if they can make this for you guys. And it's nothing crazy. They're not going to have a wild, you know, 1960s trip. You know, there's no they're going to see pink elephants or anything like that. They're gonna it's, it's used for patients with treatment resistant depression, with PTSD, major depressive disorder. You prescribe it. They do in the city of either homes, 300 milligrams is what I prescribe. Typically under the tongue. It dissolves with them in a couple minutes. And then they sort of like, float off. They lay on their bed. They have nice little experience, and they do it once week. Typically, we do that in a protocol of six weeks. Oftentimes, they're doing some cognitive behavioral therapy, maybe EMDR, maybe Neurofeedback might be important, because sometimes they can have new awakenings, I don't know how to describe they. They have new insights, and they might need someone to help process them through the new insights they they might get from this. And so we've had a couple of good reports from this, and really no negative side effects. If anything, it's very mild, nothing crazy. Mechanism action of esketamine, that's the intranasal or ketamine lozenges. Esketamine blocks the NMDA receptors. It increases glutamate activity. Glutamate surge promotes BDNF, rellef release, so it can. conditions yet. I've only used it in mental health so far, but I'd like, I'd like, to start

Speaker 5  48:03
applying it more in neurodegenerative conditions as well. Now we get to leaky gut, which unfortunately is an increasing problem. This is an 18 year old female. She developed Hair Loss. She has the had the hypothyroidism. You know, if treaty three of like the 2.3 it was at age 18, not very good. This testing we did was on a vitamin. So she was taking oral vitamin C. She was taking a multivitamin capsule. She was still suffering with anxiety, and didn't feel like her brain was functioning like it once did, like an 18 year old. Should be very sharp, shouldn't have any brain fog. And so look at these serum and cellular here on the right column. So he's cellular on the right, and that's a white blood cell micronutrition test that this company does. And you can see all her B vitamins are on the low end of the reference range. Some are even in the red, like b3 and b1 now this is, mind you, she's taking a multivitamin that included B vitamins in there. And she also ate a fairly good diet. She ate meat. Wasn't like a vegan or anything. Vitamin C super low as well. So this capsule is non therapeutic. So what is going on here? Well, we did some further testing, we can see that she has a couple of food allergies as well, peanuts and soy wheat. That kind of off the chart here. A bunch of food sensitivities, a lot of micronutrients, k1 deficient, k2 deficient, vitamin D deficient, of course, arachdonic acid off the charts, probably not the best. Omega three rich diet would show we needed to supplement that, of course. So this patient has the leaky gut. We diagnosed her with that. She had a positive intestinal permeability markers. I don't know if you have any of that here. We have to bring that back. Positive intestinal permeability is anti Gliadin antibodies, anti Zonulin and antibodies. She had all of those. She even had LPs. And so when you have this gut inflammation, the gut, it's going to affect everything, including the brain. So you can get depression, you can get schizophrenia, crime, fatigue, all these problems. You can get Alzheimer's. That's that's one to look out for. How food sensitivities, gluten problems, intestinal permeability can negatively affect the brain, especially if they have LPS lipopolysaccharide. But the other problem is that they don't absorb vitamins very well, so they'll get micronutrient deficiencies, not just, you know, even if they'll take a multivitamin, they'll take the everything you prescribe them, you check their blood levels, and it's not there, there's they're not absorbing it either. It's cellular. They're not absorbing it. There can be other there can be competitors, like we learned about an iodine. There's competitors halides, there's bromine and there's fluoride. There's competitors for a lot of vitamins and minerals. There's toxic metals that will compete out for certain minerals, but then the B vitamins, just the malabsorption is super common. When you start testing these young women with anxiety problems, with food sensitivity, issues depression, you'll find so often that there'll be vitamin deficient. And we know the B vitamins are essential for brain optimization. And don't even get me started on the on the iron deficiency that's associated with that, which I think I'm gonna talk about in a bit. So this is what it looks like, Zonulin. We have the loosened tighten junctions. There's only one intestinal barrier. It's this one cell line these epithelial cells, and once they're broken, then you can get food that enters into bloodstream. And then you can get multiple food sensitivities, like we saw previously. So you got to try to regenerate that while replenish them with vitamins that will actually absorb now here, this is what I was like. Maybe I'll put the slide up a little bit. This was her panel. You can see the Gliadin anti gliding, gamma Gliadin, anti Zonulin, anti actin. So, very, very problematic

Unknown Speaker  52:19
gut injury here.

Speaker 5  52:22
So we gave her sublingual vitamins. They started absorbing a little bit better. She felt better. Mental clarity improved, anxiety improved. That's one way to do it. You can do them IV as well. Kind of difficult, expensive to bring a patient in for IV vitamins all the time. Or you can do intramuscular. The problem with intramuscular is you have to inject them, and then you can't inject all the vitamins. This patient also had the estrogen dominance as well going on here. So you can see low progesterone in a young female tested on day 21 and high estrone and high estradiol. So this patient was having poor estrogen detox pathways and low progesterone. And we all know that without progesterone, you have anxiety too. Here's two examples of other women with anemia, iron deficiency anemia, causing anxiety, palpitations, poor poor exercise tolerance. This lady in particular, 28 years old, she was describing that, in the past, she even needed blood transfusions. When she was a vegan, she had a hemoglobin of three, I believe, very low. Die hemoglobin of three. I tested her and she had, again, the wheat Zoomer score above six. Intestine score high, anti Zonulin, LPs, anti actin. I told her to get off the gluten, and she reports back to me that she ran the fastest marathon she ever ran. She could actually swallow food without feeling like she was joking. She didn't feel fatigued. You know, if someone has trouble swallowing food and they feel like that's not normal, they need either an endoscopy or at least some gut testing. But avoiding gluten helped her a lot. So some people have a real problem with that. These are other two patients, two women, I like to talk about this one. This is a 36 year old woman, and she thought she needed to be admitted to the insane asylum because she was getting all these weird thoughts. She thought she was crazy. This was her blood work. Her her hemoglobin was very low. It was 9.7 and her ferritin was four. So both these women had very low ferritin and hemoglobin, and they felt terrible. They felt anxiety. They felt palpitations. They thought they had, you know, Lyme. They thought they had all these things that they were just superbly ferritin deficient. And this is an ongoing problem, and it is not so much a problem of medicine, what hematologist described, as you say, business problem, because women, they can't get iron infusions very easily. They have to go to a hematologist office and sit there next to cancer patients getting infusions. We, on the other hand, we can prescribe this. You can administer in the office. It's very safe, and they can have very quick resolution in their symptoms. So we should consider offering iron infusions for anemic young women, because this is a huge problem, and it's again, because back to the leaky gut, their malabsorption, intestinal inflammation, and then, of course, the add on autoimmune conditions, even a recipe for iron deficiency anemia. Yes.

Speaker 7  55:44
Dr Emily, yeah. Stefan, yeah, I saw a lot of iron deficiency in my practice back in New York, not all kidney related. But of course, I saw that too. Couple of things that are of interest. One is that all these neuropsychiatric symptoms are symptoms of iron deficiency and are seen without anemia. So you don't have to be anemic to have these neuro psychiatric symptoms. They are very dramatic, and they improve with iron repletion. I gave a lot of IV iron in my office at one point, until I had a bad anaphylactic reaction

Unknown Speaker  56:22
in a pregnant lady, right?

Speaker 7  56:26
I mean, she was going to have trouble with her pregnancy. She was so totally iron deficient, she was not going to get through her pregnancy, so I thought it was worth a risk. She tolerated the first injection very well. Second injection, she had an anaphylactic reaction. Fortunately, I had a good crash cart and an experienced nurse with me in the room, and we were able to get her, you know, well with, you know, epi and steroid, but it is dramatically good. Now, there is an oral preparation, ferric citrate, which was introduced as a phosphate binder in nephrology, but it turned out that it was such a good iron source source that we switched to using it as iron repletion, so with like a few weeks to a month of oropharynx citrate, you can completely replenish depleted iron stores.

Speaker 5  57:22
And the dose I heard from a hematologist, you can't absorb more than five milligrams per day. Is that right?

Speaker 7  57:30
I don't think that's true. I mean, iron metabolism is complicated. has to do with hep Sidon faroporte And these, but true iron deficiency is readily reversed with barrack citrate, I mean, we had patients who were ferritins of undetectable. back to normal, pretty, very, very dramatic.

Speaker 5  57:52
Yeah, they need it. I think we all need to be at the forefront of treating this thing because it's so so common,

Speaker 7  58:00
especially young women. Yeah, and the infusions are mostly safe. You just have to be prepared with, you know, Benadryl

Speaker 5  58:06
and the usual stuff. Yeah, there's sometimes they'll get joint pains. They're transient with the venifer, I found that a couple of times.

Speaker 3  58:14
But oh, Stephan, a tip for oral iron for maximal absorption. You definitely want to give it every other day. The rationale for that would be the increase in hep CD, if you actually give it good consecutive days and have seen it, would hold on to the iron instead of being utilized by the system. So that's a trick that I learned in in April.

Speaker 5  58:39
Alright, and do you think there's anything to adding vitamin C to your

Speaker 3  58:43
oral iron? Oh yes, definitely. That's always going to be a yes.

Speaker 5  58:48
I always say, Yes, you he the conventionalist. They don't like vitamin

Speaker 3  58:51
C for some reason. I don't know. I don't know why. That's a proof. That's a proven fact, I guess so. But yes, always add vitamin C. Alright.

Speaker 5  59:01
Then we get to some more repurpos drugs here, low dose Naltrexone as an anti inflammatory for the nerves. We use this all the time at our practice, fantastic drug. What is it? It's an inexpensive drug. It regulates immune dysfunction. Repurpose inadvertent discovered inadvertently by Dr Bihari when he was treating HIV patients. He found that when he gave them naltrexone, their immune systems got better mechanism where How can help for brain health and inflammation. It's uh, it binds and acts as an antagonist of toll like receptor four. This action disrupts signaling pathways, reducing the synthesis of inflammatory substances like TNF alpha and interferon beta. As a result, it attenuates the pro inflammatory profile of activated microglial cells in central nervous system, which are associated with pain, fatigue and cognitive dysfunction. We use this all the time for nerve inflammation at the practice chronic pain. Of course, it will also work for addiction. We find it will work for alcohol use, of course, whether it's conventional dosing or that's 50 milligrams, 100 milligrams, but even low dosing, between one milligram and five milligrams, it can have a very mild anti alcoholic effect, where they don't even think about alcohol. That's described to me, they'll say, I don't even, I'd even think about like, these are, who's the day drinkers? A couple beers a day, every day they start LDN, they feel good, they don't have pain, and they forget to drink alcohol. And how important is that for an alcoholic, it will, of course, work as an opiate antagonist for heroin addicts. I don't deal with so many of that. We've also found it helps with binge eating, and so it could decrease addictive binge eating behaviors. So that's another mechanism, how it works on the brain. Little bit mystery why it works, but it does so much that even Big Pharma has started adding it to their Wellbutrin for weight loss and binge eating disorder. Cuz Wellbutrin, as I should say, a lot of psychiatric drugs, they're used off label, and Wellbutrin is one that was used for for binge eating disorder. Seems to have, like bit of an appetite suppressing effect. It works on more than 160 diseases, autism. We use it a lot. In autism, it improves autistic behavior. I've seen it many times anxiety, because it helps release endorphins in the brain. So it's great for anxiety, they take it at night. They don't have as much anxious thoughts. Of course, we use it in cancer as well. Uh, methylene blue. Let's talk a little bit about methylene blue. Gets a lot of hype these days. I hear everybody talking about it has a lot of different mechanisms where it might help. It's energy as a mitochondrial enhancement. It does help with mood disorders, so much that you need to be careful when a patient is on an SSRI that it might give them again, too much of a good thing. They might get a little serotonin syndrome from too much serotonin. But methylene blue can increase serotonin in the brain. So it can work as a bit of a antidepressant, anxiolytic. We found it oftentimes to help patients just with enhancing their cognition. So it is a brain optimization therapy, if there ever was one. This patient, Cool story, she was suffering in a water damaged building. She couldn't she couldn't move out at the time, so she was taking methylene blue, and she described that her brain fog improved. She previously couldn't finish sentences, that she started speaking clearly again. It was almost night and day for her. As a brain

Unknown Speaker  1:02:50
optimization therapy,

Speaker 5  1:02:53
of course, you got to get out of the moldy building. This one is amazing craze I had. This was a 79 year old Alzheimer's lady dementia. She was combative in the nursing home, she would punch the nurses. She wasn't pleasant to her family member. She'd yell at people really, really unfortunate. We got her on methylene blue. I was like, well, let's try this thing. Let's see what it does. She became the sweetest old lady. She liked to hang out with the grandchildren. She wasn't abusive to the nursing staff anymore, and they ran out of it, and there was a bit of a delay. My phone was blowing up. The family was calling me, like, we need to get her this overnight at, like, right, ASAP. And other, alright, let me prescribe this thing. Prescribed it with a different compounding pharmacy that was local, and it didn't work as well. It gave her it. I was like, oh, maybe it was like a placebo. I don't know what it was about that confident. We switched compound frenzy to the other one, overnighted it, and that one worked. So, yeah, so it's cool when you're working with an Alzheimer's dementia patient, because they don't know what they're taking so like, the placebo effect is, like, very minimal with these patients, and it's kind of cool to see, like, difference we can we got one conference, I don't think this stuff works. Was junk, got another one, and this thing actually worked. So really cool case there. And then our favorite is the hormones. Of course, we need to talk about hormones when we're talking about mental health and brain optimization, because they're all neuroprotective. They all help regenerate the brain. DHEA is very important for all sorts of things, but let's talk about a practical reason why it might be helpful. This is a 60 year old patient, and she was embarrassed to ride her horse, since she had incontinence every time she rode, and gave her a large amount of embarrassment, she didn't like to tell anyone. So it was affecting, actually, her mental health. And so, you know, in psychiatry, we're supposed to stay in our lane and only treat the brain, but all the way, on the other hand, on the genital urinary system, this lady was having incontinence, and it was causing her to have mental health issues because it's embarrassing to her. We regenerated her, her vaginal area with DHEA. We did DHEA suppositories combined with estradiol and testosterone. And just kind of an illustration how everything's connected. Try to convince my conventional colleagues of this, that you can't just treat the brain. Everything works together here. Now, here's another example, 45 year old, perimenopausal, night sweats, fatigue, insomnia. She didn't sleep well, and this has been going on for six to eight months. You can see her salivary hormone levels very low, testosterone, less than five. Estradiol, of course, took off a long time ago, still producing estrogen, which is kind of typical. Their own fat cells use a little bit heavier weight. Their own fat cells will produce Estro, which is a bit of a problematic one, if it's left unchecked, not much progesterone left in the body, too. That one took off some time ago. We put her on these things. We put her on topical progesterone, estradiol. She said, I haven't felt this good mentally and physically and just overall, in probably over a year, I haven't been having any night sweats or PMS issues. I'm sleeping 77 eight hours. And what's more important than sleep for brain optimization, because if you don't sleep, you got no brain real quick. So and the testosterone improved her mood. So she felt great with this hormone therapy, it's a mood improver. This patient, I love this case. You've probably seen this before. It's one of my favorite ones. This was a topical estradiol case. We turned her hands into sclerotic, almost like dried up, mummified hands. She couldn't she couldn't move her fingers. They were all all fibrosed up. It was idiopathic. The dermatologist didn't know they were just giving her corticosteroid creams. It wasn't getting any better. We put estradiol topically on our hands. Regenerated her hands, and again, this was affecting her mental health. She was wearing gloves. She wouldn't go out because she was embarrassed, she became a recluse in her home. And that's a huge problem in psychiatry. When I did psychiatry, I would do telemedicine, actually, I worked in this chair right here, and I'd see patients virtually in Massachusetts, a lot of these patients, they were recluses. They wouldn't leave their home for one reason or another. And, you know, I was trying to figure out, like, Why does each patient not want to leave their home? Why are they not going out socializing? Why aren't they being out part of the world? Everyone has their own reason for it. This lady, she's embarrassed because of her hands. So again, it shows you how dynamic mental health and brain optimization is. And here we go. Hormones, Saber, progesterone for insomnia. We all know progesterone is sedating. Helps with sleep. That's why we give women. It should be first line therapy. I don't think it's really caught up in psychiatry. Actually, it hasn't when it works in psychiatry. I think first line therapy was, uh, of course, you know your lifestyle bubble, but no one actually believes that in psychiatry. They just say, Yes, lifestyle therapy, but no one actually believes in it. They just go to the stating atypical antipsychotic drugs like, Okay, well, we could try olanzapine. It's sedating. Might make you gain some weight, but it'll help you sleep. That's that's psychiatry for you. I think progesterone should be first line therapy for insomnia, because it works. It converts to allopurinolum, and they sleep better, right? This patient was using alcohol to sleep. That's a super common problem in psychiatry. Patients self medicate, probably because they are not getting the right treatment from psychiatry. So where they go? They go to 711 and they get a six pack, or they get whatever liquor they can get off the shelf and they drink. So this patient was doing that. She was drinking whiskey every night to go to sleep. She'd been doing that for years. Other patients, they'll reach for the marijuana, the Mary Jane, because it reduces their anxiety, helps them wind down at night. Or they'll go to Benadryl. They'll go to Walgreens, they'll get Benadryl, which we now know Benadryl increases Alzheimer's. Now, why might Benadryl be increasing Alzheimer's in my veins? Because they're not getting good sleep, not a really good sleep aid, right? Might be other reasons for that, but that's just what I feel Benadryl. No one really knows why Alzheimer's might be associated with Benadryl, but it is so progesterone for insomnia should be first line therapy. Here's a spicy one for you guys, nondulum pharmacology leaves a Negron in low doses at this practice, nandroll and gets bad reputation because body builders like to do too high doses of it. And when you do two high doses of an Angelin, it converts dihydrate testosterone, causes your hair to lose and the prostate to grow, causes estrogen as well to get nipple growth, estrogen dominance, if you low dose ninjalin, it's very nice as an anti pain medicine. So it helps with pain management. It helps build muscles, and it has a mood improving effect as well. Because, you know, it is a it is a testosterone analog. So these are a couple of cases I have of patients improving their pain with nandro. This 56 year old lady, she she loves the mood improving effect. Her knees also feel more stable and less pain when playing tennis. 61 year old drywall worker. He had a big fibrosis in his palm from holding a drywall pen for years, you get little bit of an was great for his pain and helped his mood. 55 year old, asthmatic with osteoporosis from chronic corticosteroid use, we put her on angulin for the bone, improving effect on this and improved her exercise tolerance, decreased her need for asthma. 66 year old with psoriatic arthritis. He couldn't afford the DMARD therapy. We gave him a little bit of an angel, a little microdose, like couple cents once a week, and it was enough for his pain relief that he could live his life. And this is my mom. She loves testosterone and Angelin. She says it makes you feel sexy and confident, but not overtly. So if you do too much, it gets over the top in her words. So a little bit goes a long way with Angela and her back pain in Bruges, she used to have chronic back pain. Might be from, I think she has a little osteopenia, uh, men, Angela has improved her back pain. She's able to bend over touch her toes, which she previously wasn't able to do. She's stronger now. She can hang from a pull up bar for 60 seconds or more, pretty try doing that. So in summary, there's, uh, four pillars we got to talk about, the diet, strength training, light therapy, cold exposure when we're talking to our depressed patients or patients who want to optimize their brain health. So all of that goes into that. We have to look at their micronutrients, look at their intestinal permeability. We have to then address sublingual or IV therapies to get the nutrients in people to optimize their brain. Then, of course, we need to look at the hormones, all the hormones, estradiol, progesterone. They're great for mood stabilization, for neurogenesis of the brain, for pain management, and then other therapies to consider low dose naltrexone, methylene blue. They're nice immunomodular modulators, anti inflammatory. They also help brain optimize and then, as a last option, the SSRIs. I mean, I still will prescribe an SSRI here and there in my practice, but it's not first line therapy. There's like, all these pillars to do before you get to the SSRI, before you get to the the antipsychotic. But that's, I don't even know the last time I prescribed an anti psychotic, but that's that's kind of the pillars we all need to think about. And I'll take questions at this time.

Speaker 6  1:12:58
Yeah, Stefan, that was, that was excellent. My My question has to do with, have you been keeping up on, I guess, considered newer type of research on creatine and higher dose creatine for cognition, mood and memory, we're talking like 20 milligrams a day, stuff like that. 20 grams a day. 20 grams, yeah, 20 grams a day. Have you been hearing about this yet?

Speaker 5  1:13:24
No, but I know it's been done safely, even in neonates in the ICU upwards of 20. It's extremely safe, very safe. Yeah, I wouldn't be

Speaker 6  1:13:32
surprised. You know, it's not just, you know, the muscle growth and the bros and all that kind of stuff anymore. They're finding some amazing therapeutic type of stuff. I didn't know if you'd been

Speaker 5  1:13:42
checking that out or not. I might add that. And my lecture is getting long enough for this talk, so I want you to add more. But how long? Like I got? An hour, and I have to do this in Italian. I gotta take some stuff out of this.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:58
Stefan, what's, what's your dose on the nandrolo, less.

Speaker 5  1:14:03
So 0.02 unit. ML. So that's like two units is what a female will do once a week, and that equates to about four milligrams,

Bill Clearfield  1:14:16
okay? And for the males,

Unknown Speaker  1:14:19
about 20 milligrams a week or less.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:23
Okay. So it's a

Speaker 5  1:14:24
once a week. It's an injectable once a week. It lasts about 14 days, but it starts hitting a low level around day five or six they'll start. My mom's favorite day is nandrollone and tea day. It's where dad will give her a little micro dose injection of nangelin and tea. She really looks forward to that day.

Bill Clearfield  1:14:41
She feels euphoric. I don't know if you should be, uh, subjecting your mother to all the, all these, uh,

Speaker 5  1:14:49
she'll, she'll, maybe I'll get her on the Clearfield show. Sometimes she'll tell you all about it. She loves it. She loves

Bill Clearfield  1:14:54
talking about this stuff. All right, so Dr Hall asks, Are there any differences between men and males and females in the cold plunge?

Speaker 5  1:15:02
Results, um, as far as what like, mood, pain, because everybody notices a difference, no matter what gender.

Bill Clearfield  1:15:13
Dr Hall, if you're there, you want to elaborate

Speaker 8  1:15:20
or not, yeah, I'm here. There's been some discussion recently that I've seen online about cold plunge not being as effective or as appreciated by the female body. I'm a gynecologist. I'd like to think that it is beneficial for women, but if there's declining results with it for whatever reason, okay, whether it's for brain health or brown fat, white fat changes. But I wasn't sure if you had seen any differences in the scores, because your scoring system is amazing. I love that. What you were looking at all the different parameters, and I'm wondering if women had the same type of improvement, or the the degree of improvement that you saw

Speaker 5  1:16:09
with men. But the women who come to us, they come there, typically for a reason, and I think the most common reason is pain, and the pain is is genderless, and it always improves with the cold plunge therapy. But if we're talking about mood, women feel great from it. I mean, I had one patient tell me it was like doing cocaine. Oh, I don't know if we want to advertise that. My mom describes a euphoric feeling every time she gets in there. She does three minutes at 36 degrees Fahrenheit, and she just feels this euphoric feeling afterwards. She loves it.

Bill Clearfield  1:16:51
Thanks for letting me know that. Yeah. Dr amerling, yeah.

Speaker 7  1:16:58
So Stefan, I really enjoyed the talk, of course, and I noticed in your slide on the sauna that you, that you observe, or they observe raised reading aldosterone levels, yeah, as a nephrologist, I cannot see any good in that. Okay, just in general, my my explanation is that you're doing you're causing significant vasodilation, which creates a relative state of hypovolemia, because the blood volume is now filling a larger space, and suddenly the kidney perceives hypovolemia, and it puts out renin and angiotensin and aldosterone to try to correct it. So my suggestion would be that before you do a sauna that you tank up on salt water to make sure that you're really fully volume expanded. And in that same vein, the Roman Baths are considered to be the first intentional dialysis treatment in that you would sit in there for a day sweat gallons, literally, you would sweat gallons out, and you'd replace that with water and or wine, which is what they they used back then. So that if you, if you sweat out 10 liters and replace it with fresh water, you've done a 10 liter dialysis, which is basically what a day of peritoneal dialysis would be, would be worth. Wow. So, so it's very beneficial, but you must replace the electrolytes

Unknown Speaker  1:18:35
in the water. Yes, critical. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:40
Next question, Dr Leonard, synapse and how often and for how long?

Speaker 5  1:18:45
Well, synapse that is used daily for traumatic brain injury, if we're using it for a new tropic effect. So I have patients, they need to study something very intensely. They'll do it before that. If we're using it for autism, that's usually as needed basis, sometimes these autistic child still actually ask for it, like they'll know when their brain needs something. And they, some of these children, they will request these things, like, for example, low dose Naltrexone. There's one patient who will, he'll request his LDN when he knows he's going the wrong way. So it's used as an as needed.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:23
Okay, okay. Okay, so Dr Arnot says that ketamine helps my neuropathic pain for at least a week after an IV infusion also feels like a neurotropic likely due to neuroplasticity and neurogenesis. Most effective treatment for his PTSD, six infusions corrected years of mood issues and failed SSRI, SNRI, so I actually have taken the IPI course in ketamine. I would just caution that you really need to know what you're doing, because you know, things can go, go wonky quickly, and you need, especially if you're doing IV ketamine, you need resuscitation equipment available to you, and you need somebody that's trained in, you know, like Dr Burgess in psychedelic, you know, experiences. So I would be a little careful with ketamine. I don't have any really much experience with this. No spray, nasal spray, or the the or the lozenges, the IV form, at least, I think a lot of places, a lot of states, you need a, you need a special license for it. Now, I mean, that's my understanding of it anyway.

Speaker 5  1:20:44
So yeah, IV is different. I mean, the oral and intranasal ketamine is very different than the IV. I think the IV is more potent, obviously more risky, and the oral is pretty safe,

Bill Clearfield  1:20:55
though, loss, I should say, how long does the cold plunge last? I think you already told us that right, two to four minutes is the usual.

Speaker 5  1:21:04
The the how long you're in there, yes, two to four minutes. But the duration of benefit you It depends on how severe the pain is and the it's person, person dependent, but the patient it depending how bad their pain is. Sometimes they're in there every day to get a one day effect. Some need only three times

Bill Clearfield  1:21:22
a week. Or occasional use depends on the purpose, okay, Dr Arnott, again, don't forget the neuroprotective effect of cannabinoids for neurodegenerative diseases, and they've allowed him to be a pharma, pharma, free for neuropathy, excluding LDL.

Speaker 3  1:21:45
Okay, just to add to that, the antidepressant, it's like, oh, cold plunges. So they found on studies that the spike of dopamine is almost like 200 250% and norepinephrine, 508% even for hours. So this actually puts you in that state of lessening depression, even increasing focus, okay?

Bill Clearfield  1:22:08
And there's, there's, there's some comments here that we that would the crowd would like Mrs. Hartman, your mother, to give us a talk on her diet, lifestyle and anti aging. Yeah, I think we can do that. We can arrange. You think we can arrange that? Oh, sure. Huh, she'd love you think Big Mom

Unknown Speaker  1:22:32
would come on. Yeah, 100%

Bill Clearfield  1:22:35
you would Okay, how about November 11?

Speaker 5  1:22:39
Uh, November 11 will be in Bologna, Italy. She's coming

Bill Clearfield  1:22:42
along with me for the talk. All right, how about the 25th

Unknown Speaker  1:22:45
Yeah, 25th we'll

Speaker 3  1:22:47
be back by then. Make sure it's dangerous alone day she's gonna be

Bill Clearfield  1:22:52
Yeah, make sure. Make sure it's an angel on day. All right, I'll talk to you about that another time. Let's see. There's more here. Dr, dr, urban

Speaker 3  1:23:05
area. You got any, yeah, so in the chat here on the email, so we have some, I guess, curious cats about so the thing with so what are the in your experience? Sounds like you've been doing this a lot, and what are the common mistakes do people make when trying to optimize brain longevity, and how they can avoid them? So this is basically more of a clinical question that

Unknown Speaker  1:23:32
you see in patients.

Speaker 5  1:23:35
Mistakes would be, I think we have good patients that come to us with an open mind and realize that everybody is unique, and they're going to response to the things are going to be unique, and it's going to take time and tinkering to find out what works best for them.

Speaker 3  1:23:52
It's not one size fits all. In my end, I always see about people you buying all these nootropic supplements, thinking that that's going to be their one stop shop, and even, I'm sure you heard of supplements out there that doesn't even have claims, but they forgot fixing the gut. So you mentioned about the gut a while ago. So the microbiome has always been a neglected part of the body. Everybody's thinking about this, but they're not thinking about the brain down there. So that's one of the things that I've seen in my own experience and for the clinicians here. So you've mentioned so many things about how we can optimize brain function. So what strategies you I mean your your favorites in terms of how not to overwhelm patients.

Speaker 5  1:24:42
We do things one at a time, and I have them report back to me on how things work. I say, Listen, let's try this lithium, 20 milligrams. You can do it every day. Send me a portal message in a week or two, let me know how it worked. It's either going to work or not going to work. You just let me know. Then we take from there, next step,

Speaker 3  1:25:00
and then you combine the cryos with that, or that

Speaker 5  1:25:03
also is another step. Well, it's the pillars, right? You gotta do all the lifestyle everybody should be doing, strength training, diet, sauna, cold plunge, basic stuff, red light therapy. You mean red light therapy is maybe a little bit extra, but even some of the basic stuff, things are difficult, like cold it's difficult. Exercise is difficult. You need to earn your dopamine, right? People want the cheap dopamine. They want to go for the SSRI. They want the cheap solution. It's you got to do the hard things. Once you've done the hard things, master the basics. Okay, then we move to the next pillar. Okay, but next pillar might be looking at some nutrients. Okay, let's try some magnesium, lithium, some low hanging, always deficient nutrients. We see how they go. And then after that, of course, maybe in conjunction with that, looking at the hormones, right nutrients. Hormones, one of the same for me. Optimize all the hormones, of course. And then if all those fail, you're still struggling. Oh, let's look at ketamine. Let's look at low dose contraction. Let's look at methylene blue, and let's try some other things that are a little bit more

Speaker 3  1:26:08
advanced down the road, right? So again, this is where your individualized discretion comes into the play, and that's why, when people want to do this by reading through blogs, you really need a clinician, especially when you're talking about complicated situations such as this. So that's why that's definitely something that I would highly advise, especially when you're going into this rabbit hole now and buying all these supplement stuff in writing thinking that will help you. You really need special practitioner like Stefan here. Um, and here's a question about tech. Is tech something you're using? So one of the things that they pointed out here is like the oura ring, or any other tech that you use to coin coincide with

Speaker 5  1:26:49
interventions that you just mentioned, aside from lab analysis patient reports, no, not a really good tech tool. I found oura ring my wife wears that it's kind of interesting, because she'll see all this hormonal fluctuation, and there's always something at some part of the month, and she can attribute that to the one of the hormonal changes in the oura ring. So it like validates her feelings. I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing. It does validate her, though.

Speaker 3  1:27:17
Yeah. I mean, it gets complicated. I've played around with the app. There's so many graphs, there's so many numbers, but again, it all ends up like, how is your patient feeling? I mean, that's what I kind of like narrow it down to, but yeah, it's out there. It's helpful, but it's all a bit about the clinical presentation, and also, combined with numbers, right physical exam, they won't understand that there's only US clinicians probably who would alright. So they've seen cryo, they've seen baths, the ice baths. Which one for what? How do you choose? Which for

Bill Clearfield  1:27:50
which? In what case,

Speaker 5  1:27:53
if the patient is not mobile, they cannot get in and out of the code planche. They need to go into one of these, walk in chambers and freeze them. If the patient has a wound or something they can't get in the cold plunge. I mean, that's, that's another reason or cost, if they, if they they can't afford the walking chambers, because those are very expensive at concessions. I think it's like $50 around where I am every session you go where my gym is, like 24/7 they come on whenever they want, and they can do the cold plunge whenever they want. It's only $100

Speaker 3  1:28:28
a month. It's a great value, right? Well, in my experience, I done both. I really felt colder with the plunge the cryo Sure, I felt it too. But I think the experience is really going into the into the bath, at the ice bath, yes. So if you want that pure experience the nights like striking your body, it's the bath. Okay, so let's, let's get this last question and looking forward, what emerging trends in the optimization industry that you just mentioned that you are kind of looking out for in the future,

Speaker 5  1:29:04
psychedelic therapy is a growing field. We're going to keep seeing more of those come online for mental health problems and brain optimization, and then maybe we're going to get a resurgence or new research on some of these peptides. Hopefully we're relying a lot of Soviet Union studies right now. That's why I didn't talk a lot of the potential peptides. But, you know, there's di hexa, there's cerebral license, there's some max to link, and I've dabbled with all of these with patients who want to experiment with them, but we only have old Soviet Union studies to rely on right now,

Speaker 3  1:29:38
right? Yeah, and there's more out there on brain taps. There's a lot of new devices. I worked with, Bredesen protocol patients here. And even Bredesen is kind of moving outwards, so there's even that galactin Three infusion to lower down the chain, I mean, to prevent Alzheimer's even control it. So the feature is so bright with this that is just growing. But the point there is, let's not be late getting on the track. We ourselves need to try it to make sure that these brain cells of ours are still running by the time we're 80 or 90. So anyway, you got it all out. Thank you for a great presentation. Stefan, if you know we're going to miss you in December, so if you have a change of heart. We're always going to be here, so

Bill Clearfield  1:30:27
in Reno, right? Reno? Yeah, got a couple more questions. If you can hang out. Stefan, Sir, are you using methylene blue for IV? Methylene blue for

Speaker 5  1:30:38
Neuro, neuro health? No, it's prohibitively expensive. I haven't found a good a cheap source for that.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:46
You can make sure no SSRIs or issues with low nitric oxide improve rather than reverse. But some may have drastic improvements from what I've heard. Dr or not. Okay, cool, okay, all right, there's a question about what pharmacy you use. Wait till we're done with the video on that one. Okay, IV is a different ball game for ketamine versus Troche or rdt. Way more intense. You need good set and setting for and caution, right? And then the question about classes. And I won't, we won't mention that. Okay, we wait till the video is off on that. Okay, great. So thank you so much. Anybody else? Have any comments or questions or anything else? Question about, how much does a

Speaker 5  1:31:35
cryo machine cost? The one I have, it's like the Cadillac of crowd there of cold plunges. It's like 30k

Bill Clearfield  1:31:45
okay, lithium, orocate for 20 milligrams per week, and then cut

Speaker 5  1:31:50
back, or keep them on it, yeah, you start them on a loading dose to get a nice, quick effect so the patient knows that something's happening. And then you can do a like, a lower dose, kind of like we would do with iodine therapy. We'd like start them a little bit higher, saturate them, and then you can do like a milligram.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:07
It's fine. Any issues with bundle, Branch, block from lithium?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:13
No. You may be thinking of lithium

Bill Clearfield  1:32:15
carbonate, right? Okay, okay, okay, hang on, there's

Unknown Speaker  1:32:22
one more here.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:25
Okay, that was nothing. Okay. Dr Nario, you got anything else? Officially, officially? No, he got it all out. Videos off now, so plug away. So, so Stefan has a

Speaker 5  1:32:47
link here, I guess for some courses. Yeah, I am creating a course. If anybody wants to stay tuned for that, we're gonna get a course gonna be CME certified. It's pretty cool that I'm working on right now. So you can get the you can log in and get sign up for the newsletter and get out how to open your practice guide right

Bill Clearfield  1:33:05
now with that. Okay, all right, I seem to have lost it. Can you put it back in there, in the chat again? I don't know where it got to. Yeah, I'll put it. All right. We still want it. We want to. I think that the big highlight here is we want Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Hartman one.

Speaker 5  1:33:23
We want your mother on. She loves talking about this stuff. We'll bring her on the show. We did it for halasa recently about the fish. She loved

Bill Clearfield  1:33:29
talking about that, all right, so, yeah, the other thing we want halasa, we want you to put, put him through your program

Unknown Speaker  1:33:38
while his back is hurting after

Unknown Speaker  1:33:41
that fall.

Unknown Speaker  1:33:42
No, he fell, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:33:46
didn't you, didn't you get that he spelled, I watched the video. I got to watch that. I didn't even fall. I just was watching his mansion. I was too impressed by that. How long did he make it in the cold plunge? Like 30 seconds less. It was like he he dipped his toes in and went up to his like thighs and jumped out, fish out of water.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:08
Yeah, solve that.

Speaker 5  1:34:10
Okay, if you want to come to Bologna, I'll give you the link, and you can sign up for the conference. I'll put it in the description here.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:17
Is it an online one again? And you know, because they know the one, the one we did for in you did in England, the

Speaker 5  1:34:23
one in London, that was pretty bad. No, this one's better quality. The speakers are great. I mean, they had a great speakers last time, so I was impressed

Unknown Speaker  1:34:31
by them. Okay, all right,

Speaker 6  1:34:36
since the December, December meetings getting close, we're still all working with Kevin, I believe Kevin Verlander. And anyway, he deals with Dr Gerber. We did get one protest objection. You may have gotten that yourself

Bill Clearfield  1:34:55
from Guess who. Yeah, right. I'll give the group to get

Unknown Speaker  1:35:02
one guess who, osteopathic society.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:07
Closer to home anyway, but

Bill Clearfield  1:35:10
everything was going really a number of times tonight.

Speaker 6  1:35:14
I think Kevin's fine, and everybody was for it, and so am I so, but it's getting too close to screw around, so I think we

Bill Clearfield  1:35:22
ought to go with him. Was on that this week. Dr Nario has been sort of pinning him down for some details, and we'll probably, we'll get to have that done. We're going to have a meeting on on Saturday, at five o'clock Eastern, two o'clock Pacific, again, a Zoom meeting for the organized folks. Most of you guys are on here. Anybody's welcome. Just send me an email if you want to, if you want to be in on it, we'll, we'll have this. We'll have this all nailed down. We we have a structure for the speakers, and hopefully by this weekend, we'll be able to start getting some publicity out for it. Okay, I'll go ahead and mention something too, because we have people in Nevada, like benzvini and others a bunch, who want a podcast. And then Stefan was talking recently about doing a podcast as well. He's in Florida. You're in Nevada, but there's no reason we can't work together with that. And I also spoke to Kevin about that if he would like to be involved. And I don't want to, I don't want to stick my nose in anybody's business. But I have a recording studio myself if we need to play with it. But I think with tech knowledge, with techno we got today, we could do Florida, Nevada, Las Vegas and Reno, no swap and hook it up, right? All right. So we'll, we'll get, we'll, we'll, we'll have the the the website and the AV nailed down by the end of this week, and then we'll, we'll get everything out. And I know it's kind of short notice to be traveling here, but we're going to do it all online also. So you'll be able to get that it's pretty reasonable. You'll be able to get 20 CME credits, and the homeopaths will be able to get their credits. And we'll, we'll see if we can get a special, special appearance by Mrs. Hartman, I think maybe that should

Speaker 2  1:37:27
be our keynote speaker. Oh, wow. She's gonna be doing pull ups over there, please.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:35
Yeah. Okay, all right, Stefan, thank you for jumping in here. We're gonna have Dr de Silva on October 21 I think. And I know I had Ken Crowley on October 21 I'll get we'll get Dr de Silva on another time next week, we have David shigerus on and he's going to discuss some some new supplements that

Speaker 3  1:38:03
he's been working with for Filipino friends here. We definitely are doing zooms or right we're going to be digital format for them. So definitely you

Bill Clearfield  1:38:16
guys can attend. Yes, Mike, yes. The one, the one objection said it was too expensive and he could do it on AI for for on which,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:29
sure replace us with a,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:31
I don't know about that. Yeah, well, so that was, that was, that was the objection.

Speaker 9  1:38:38
I just want to mention. For, for Doctor Harmon, he said that he doesn't know Benadryl, why it's causing memory problem, or this because they are anticholinergic. All anticholinergic, they are against acetylcholine, and acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter necessary for memory.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:59
Ah, that's the problem with it.

Speaker 5  1:39:03
Yeah, a lot of patients are still using that. I don't think they're aware. I keep finding that,

Speaker 9  1:39:08
yeah, anything that decreases the acetylcholine, or it's anticholinergic, causes dry mouth, constipation, they also decrease their anti acetylcholine, and acetylcholine, it's the neurotransmitter for memory,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:23
yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:26
Okay, so, you know, the conference is, you know, is going to cost a little bit of money. So we're going to charge a little bit of money. It won't be too bad, not nearly what's being charged out there these days. I mean, some of these, these conferences, are outrageous. The title I'm supposed to go to a vitamin C conference. You know, basically, Vitamin C is good for everything. I mean, that's the whole conference, and $1,600 for two days, or something, some

Speaker 5  1:39:57
something ridiculous like that. Did you look at the price of this Italian conference? It's dirt cheap. It's like, 150 euros. I'm like,

Speaker 3  1:40:06
we is one that I'm going to go to. They don't charge much, but they have good quality people in Europe, so

Unknown Speaker  1:40:13
I like it,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:15
yeah, it's, they don't make much, speakers for us for Tuesday nights,

Speaker 5  1:40:20
okay? So they can't, I mean, it's like 3am over

Bill Clearfield  1:40:24
there, right one week we can record. Remember we had, we had the French lady who just gotten her PhD last winter. Yes, she'll be back. Next, next, next, next, winner also. So and remember she, she insisted on doing it live. You know, it was three o'clock in the morning, she was in Paris, so I understand she's moved to Greece, and she's from Greece,

Speaker 5  1:40:49
and she's moved back. Well, I got Dr Paulo Conforti on the halastas program. I think it was his, not yours, but he had to come here, and he stayed at my office, and then we filmed it from my office for

Bill Clearfield  1:40:59
Halas show. Yeah, well, but like I said, when we first started out on that cover slide of yours. I think we should have halasa in

Unknown Speaker  1:41:08
the cold plunge there. Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:41:11
I mean, I'm not that quick with the trigger finger to capture a one second plunge.

Speaker 9  1:41:17
May I ask? How did you learn so much you are so knowledgeable and use so many so a variety of things. How were you able to to implement all these things in your practice?

Speaker 5  1:41:29
And why study all the time? And I tried to find solutions, and I listened to these great speakers here. And I think, and I try things, but I think that the the the what makes me successful is I'm very bold. I'm not scared to try things like, I'll, I'll study it, and I'll try that on myself or a patient. And if I research that, it's safe, I have a low threshold to like, trying experimenting something, and then I learn from the patients, and I document it and

Unknown Speaker  1:41:58
I report on it here. Yeah, that's amazing.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:02
Yeah, they are very courageous

Speaker 9  1:42:05
to do this outside the box, and that's very I mean, it's

Speaker 5  1:42:11
amazing. You have to be fearless. You're not. You can't have anxiety.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:19
I'm paralyzed about the medical boards. I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:42:21
so scared that I feel like, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:26
yeah. So you got it. You got it. You got to go right, right to the right, to the belly of the beast and tell them you don't you don't care what they think. Right. Okay. Thank you so much Stefan again for jumping in here last minute. I mean, I literally just asked them this morning, and he's, you know, more than gracious. Otherwise you would have had me or

Speaker 5  1:42:50
Dr Mario. We've always, we've always got something up our sleeve. We've got so many lectures, you know, anything you want me

Bill Clearfield  1:42:58
to talk about, a lot of us do. So okay, buddy else, John, you got anything? Or Dr Quinn,

Speaker 6  1:43:04
for Dr Quinn, is everything good? Dr Quinn, yeah, everything is good. Alright, we're, we're in the process of submitting stuff for the conference. We spent a lot of time talking about the conference in December and our role, and what we're trying to do, what we're trying to accomplish. I want to throw in one thing based on what Stefan said about being bold and trying things. And Dr Clearfield, you talked about the belly of the beast. Part of what our area is at the conference is going to be Dr zavenia was Judge bent tribal judge talking about protections that you can get. And Stephan, I know you heard him speak in a forum last December, we talked a little bit about it. There are ways to protect yourself. If you want to be bold, it's right now. It's like a separation of church and state. You can have an allopathic type of practice, and that's wonderful. But if you want to do any research based things like we talk about in our Saturday meetings, there is a way to protect yourself through a different type of organization, which is tribal, which you keep separately, people will be hearing about this that I think gives people the freedom to maybe do some things that that we're afraid to do otherwise. So stay tuned for that coming in

Bill Clearfield  1:44:25
December on the fourth. Yeah. So just to let you all know, so the structure is going to be, Thursday is going to be our research day. They're going to be our kickoff, folks. Friday is going to be the homeopathic day, so the all the homeopathic good stuff. And then Saturday is going to be our integrative medicine. And then we're going to do a little bit of a roundtable wrap up with everybody. So that's kind of the kind

Speaker 6  1:44:51
of the structure there. And then Dr Clearfield, have our guys been getting you there the information,

Speaker 3  1:44:57
getting drips and drabs, yeah. So I've been getting all the profiles of speakers, so I think I'm filling up the whole day already for Thursday and then Friday, sorry, Friday and a few more for Saturday. So we're getting a good flow of people here, and I even got you and R to join us now. So we got some good people coming

Bill Clearfield  1:45:22
in. Okay, great. Okay, okay, so Dr Chagos is David Chagos is next week, and we'll the conference committee, two o'clock Pacific, five o'clock Eastern on Saturday. I'll send out a link before then, if anybody else wants to, you know, join in. Just let me know. And we're, we'll, we'll have the all the all the online stuff and the AV stuff all wrapped up by, hopefully by Friday at the latest. And then we'll, we'll, we'll hit, hit the ground hard. And, you know, try to try to make this is as successful as possible. The reason we're doing it, sort of in a rush, is because the homeopaths in Nevada needs to be the CME credits. Otherwise, it would have taken more time, you know, to put this all together, but we need to get that in for them by the end of the year. So we'll talk to you folks again next week, same time, same station, and

Speaker 3  1:46:28
Doctor Bill Petronella asking about how to register. So we're going to put that out by next week.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:36
We'll have this. We'll have it by by the beginning of next week. One thing to think about is, every all of us have, you know, email, databases and addresses. If we send you the Master, if you could send it out to your folks, that would be a big help. And you know, to get to get the word

Speaker 2  1:46:57
out. Okay, so already, yeah, thank you. Okay, all right,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:03
we'll call you back, same time, same station next week. See.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai