Bill Clearfield  00:39
Hello, there. You're a brave soul.

Speaker 1  00:45
No, it's funny. It's as if I'm in a club with science.

Bill Clearfield  00:51
Okay, so it's what, two in the morning there? Yeah, or three,

Unknown Speaker  00:56
three in the morning.

Bill Clearfield  00:58
So, okay, so we admire your youth and enthusiasm.

Unknown Speaker  01:06
Thank you very much for inviting me. It's an honor. Well,

Bill Clearfield  01:09
thank you for being with us. It's an honor to have you. So this is not our usual topic. You know, we most do, mostly anti aging, wellness, those kinds of things. But, you know, when we met, I thought this would be a great for us, and actually, hopefully good for you. And I think you'll find a lot of the a lot of the our our members are quite interesting. We have a special guest who's going to sit in with us too. Here, she's coming in the room, so

Speaker 1  01:48
Okay, I can't wait. Do you want me to share my PowerPoint or I saw someone?

Bill Clearfield  02:01
She was couldn't wait to see you. So

Unknown Speaker  02:06
congratulations. Yeah, usually start,

Bill Clearfield  02:10
usually start a little bit after five. We sometimes have a, you know, a little little housekeeping, that kind of thing. And so not just yet, but unless you want to just test it out, sure, go ahead.

Speaker 1  02:25
Okay. Well, it's up to you. I have no problem.

Bill Clearfield  02:29
That's okay, just just to make sure it works, because we just let our folks sort of filter in here.

Unknown Speaker  02:36
But just

Bill Clearfield  02:39
okay, is this what you did your PhD on?

Speaker 1  02:43
Yeah, that was the cancer that we tried to identify therapeutic vulnerability, actually molecular vulnerabilities that could be used as therapeutic targets and later on being developed and as therapies. However, I will not share any of my results because there are published data yet. And so I'm gonna talk a little bit later about a very successful and wonderful research example that was recently published by the laboratory that I did my PhD in. So it's, it's pretty much the same, but just the protein changes, although this could be the key to success, we never know. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  03:27
terrific. So everybody else who's on just, well, I'll introduce you formally. You'll tell us about about you know yourself, but so this young lady, is

Unknown Speaker  03:42
that

Bill Clearfield  03:45
nice? My my fiance is niece, and she recently obtained her PhD in molecular biology. Is it cellular biology? Yeah, yeah. Okay. She's way smarter than than Well, most of us, except for Dr Tano and Hartman, maybe so. So I think Dr Tanner's got, got you got you sort of covered Anyway, okay, but in cat Street, whatever she's

Speaker 1  04:23
live from Paris, right? Yeah, right. Now I'm in Paris there. It's 2am

Bill Clearfield  04:28
we kept telling her we could do it as a video, you know, so she didn't have to stay up in the middle of the night, but she insisted on being here. So I hope we get a good crowd. And like I said, I know it's not our usual she's going to talk about, you know, something that we don't usually discuss. First of all, eyes, pretty much at all. And secondly, you know, melanomas, and this is, again, what you did your PhD research on right exactly if there's at the end, I mean, if there's anything you want to, you know, I don't know that anybody here is going to be taking whatever information you have, especially treatment protocols and and using them. That's kind of not our crowd. But if you, if you're you know, I

Speaker 2  05:23
know Where's Dr Joseph. He has a case like this right now. I

Bill Clearfield  05:28
don't know. Do you think you could page him and let him know?

Unknown Speaker  05:32
Yeah, I'll go call him. I'll be back.

Speaker 1  05:36
Wow, we have last minute additions. Wow.

Bill Clearfield  05:42
Yeah, we actually have a a case, I guess. Okay,

Benoit Tano  05:51
yeah. Dr Clearfield, let me say hi to her. Bucha. We

Benoit Tano  06:04
okay, yes, who says to scratch Yes, yeah, okay, that cabinet, but it's going to

Speaker 1  06:19
be in English, you know. And the questions also, and

Speaker 1  06:30
also, Doctor Clearfield, if I may add a quick, let's say, info you're talking about, aging and yeah, I've seen the panel of wonderful, wonderful invited speakers that you had before. I know I'm a little bit far away from what you usually have, but I'm going to say it in a few slides later, that UV melanoma usually rises around 60 years. And since we have a lifespan of mean lifespan of approximately eight years. That means that it affects the last third of standard, other standard lifespan. So it's, it's not directly related to aging, but still, it's something that could, if you have it, unfortunately, could lower significantly the quality of your life, and it's super lethal. So even the time that remains, it's going to be super hectic. It could fall under this category, which we don't want this we want people. We want people to reach to the maximum and die. Like how to say, normally, I don't know how you guys medical doctors call these, but

Bill Clearfield  07:49
with ease and grace, exactly, not having

Speaker 1  07:56
all these bad effects from melanomas or cancers and going in and out of hospitals Exactly.

Bill Clearfield  08:03
So I was glad that you were able to Dr Tano always gets me confused with his Minnesota accent, so he's so glad you were able to communicate with

Unknown Speaker  08:17
him. So he was perfectly fine. So no,

Bill Clearfield  08:19
I kid him. I kid him a lot. So,

Unknown Speaker  08:23
yeah, so

Unknown Speaker  08:27
in French, I don't have an accent, though.

Bill Clearfield  08:31
I don't have an accent when I, when I when I moved, when I moved to Reno from Pennsylvania, they told me I had an accent. And I said, No, I don't Yeah,

Benoit Tano  08:45
one time I went to St Louis, and somebody was trying to talk to me, I tell you, I could not understand the word he was saying. I didn't know that he was from the US, but he's speaking American English.

Bill Clearfield  09:01
Well, no. I mean, there's dialects everywhere. You know my son, you know, fluent in Mandarin, and he says, when he goes down south to Canton he can't understand, you know what they're saying? Either?

Benoit Tano  09:13
No, but you know, you know that is clear. Cantonese and the Mandarin are two different languages, but the same,

Unknown Speaker  09:21
I know, which is funny. So,

Bill Clearfield  09:22
you know, it happens. So, anyway, so, so right as we'll let a few more filter in, so Doctor Tanno or Doctor Quinn, what's going on with the research group? And we'll get you you

Speaker 3  09:43
want to take that one. There's so much going

Unknown Speaker  09:46
on. Go ahead. Do it because you

Speaker 3  09:50
do so that's because Bill, I'm the only one that I think that takes notes. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  09:59
we pick on you, you know, yeah,

Speaker 3  10:00
yeah, I'm going to have to stop that. Okay, let's see what I got here. Um, oh yeah. Last Saturday, Doctor Anthony James joined us, who is, I would say, a few steps ahead of us as far as our tribal affiliations and that type of thing. He's got a brick and mortar facility, and he is, like Dr zavinia, very well versed in the laws and regulations and all of that kind of stuff as practicing in the foreign country of the Native American lands. Shall we say, it's a First Nations Medical Board oversees everything. Dr Dimitri just became a member practitioner of certified trialing, certified trialing, certified tribal healing. And in this thing where the goal is to include all of the all they say include all master healing arts. So it's not just products. There are a lot of other you know, modalities, and they talk about, you know, PRP and acupuncture and various things like that, to get under the under the umbrella, to drive protection for everybody. Dr James's school is called NAIC. Well, his, his, I'm sorry, is the website for his school. Is N A I C, dash, edu.org, and it's a Native American Tribal entity, which he was very good at filling us in on everything that has to do with that. We're now going to check with some of the, I guess, legal people that we know to talk about how to set up tribal entities. Dr Dimitri was big on that type of thing. And apparently you can set up an LLC, or any other type of of corporation under the tribe, so it's not registered with the state, it's registered with the tribe. And there are books that were presented. There's a lot of things out there that we can use for reference. Then, as we go further into that, where was a big section on education, which is under Dr tennos bailiwick, his, as I keep saying, his his information, and the stuff he does is second to none, and there's a big push to maybe incorporate as much of that as possible into a learning atmosphere. Dr James has got his school set up, as far as I understand, and they are a certificate program. And then also correct me. Dr channel, if I'm not right, do they offer a degreed type of thing? Is he talking about masters PhD and that type of thing as well. Yes, he said they

Benoit Tano  13:03
offer a degree program, and it is recognized by the state of

Unknown Speaker  13:10
Florida. Yes, that's

Speaker 3  13:12
right, that's right. He's gone through all the state entities to make sure that they were they were recognized. They did mention a book called American Indian medicine that they recommend, that we take a look at to see some of the old healing methodologies. But again, it's, you know, I can't stress enough that this is more or less a sovereignty type of thing. It's a protection for people. You it was, it was clarified that the patients don't have to be on reservations, the practitioners don't have to be on reservations, the clinics don't have to be on reservations. You're just all under the auspices of of the First Nations Medical Board, and that's how you receive your protection. It's not designed to be part of Indian Health Services the IHS, which many of us are aware is not as effective as they would like it to be. There are steeped in the, shall we say, conventional American type of treatments that we're looking outside of. So it was, it was really, really, it was really a nice thing to see, kind of where we can go down the road, then we're also, we also talked a little bit about Dr Dimitris product that he has, he calls the molecule for research purposes, and that's going to be coming out very soon. As far as I know. It's, why

Bill Clearfield  14:35
don't we so little bit after five? Why don't we pick this up at the end? Then, okay,

Speaker 3  14:41
okay, I don't think I have anything else, really, unless Dr Tano does Okay.

Speaker 4  14:45
All right. Everybody, thank you, great.

Bill Clearfield  14:48
All right. Everybody, thank you. Thanks. Thanks. Dr Quinn, as always, so I am very pleased, and I hope I get this right. To introduce Evangelica. Papasterio, I get that right? Papa stereo pH, newly newly minted PhD in cellular biology. Is that correct?

Unknown Speaker  15:15
Yeah, molecular biology,

Bill Clearfield  15:16
molecular biology and Evangelica is a PhD in life science, Life and Health Sciences, from uni ca in nice France in November, 2024 that's pretty new. Yeah. She has a university diploma in deep tech entrepreneurship. She's an advisor for the nucleate France 2024 former member team leadership of nucleate France. 2023 former member of PhD and post hoc committees in C 3m, Institute, nice, 2021, to 2023 and she has a master's MSC is that right in clinical fiber and molecular diagnostics. She has interests in health technology, pharmaceuticals. In the context of oncology, her goal is to bridge academia and industry and to have a solid impact in supporting human health. She focuses her interests at the intersection of innovative therapies, oncology, rare diseases and biotechnology, she is passionate about exploring cutting edge solutions to advanced treatment options for challenging conditions, particularly in not developing novel therapeutic strategies, With a focus on leveraging biotechnology. Dr Papa studio, pastorio, soterio contributes. No, that's okay. I'm sorry. Her time and expertise to the discovery and translation of groundbreaking research into into impactful clinical applications. I'll do it this way. Dr p received her PhD in life sciences in November 2024, at the center Mediterranean. They you say it for nice.

Speaker 1  17:11
Usually it's the same thing.

Bill Clearfield  17:15
Thank you so much for being here. I want everybody to know that she is live from Paris, France. It's two, whatever time it is, yeah to them. Am and she insisted on being here alive with us. So everybody pay attention and try. Let's try to be polite tonight for once. Okay, so Doctor P It's, it's all yours. Thank you

Speaker 1  17:38
very much for inviting me once more, I'm very honored. And like I said before, even if we are a little bit far away from aging and therapies and the classical contact context that you have in your webinar series, UVA, melanoma, which I will show a little bit later, is something that affects the last third of the typical lifespan of a human being. So let's see, okay, you said this biography, whatever. I'm just gonna go directly to the overview of my presentation. We're gonna talk a little bit about the introductory content I'm going to show you. We're going to dive deeper to UV melanoma disease specifically. Then we're going to see a potential research strategy, how to meet this critical need. And I will, I will give all the arguments about everything that I say. And we're going to finish with a little bit of entrepreneurship in the context of biotech, and how we go from maybe research strategy to entrepreneurship, and what are the challenges that we can have? So I knew this is what this this slide was going to be totally, totally basic for you guys, because you're medical doctors. But what I want you, what I want to remind you, is that the eye consists of three layers, the outer one, which is the fibrous COVID sclera, Leo layer, the intermediate one, which is the uvea or UVL tract. And I want you to keep these three names in your head, Iris, ciliary, body and choroid, and the internal, which is the neural layer of retina, so melanocytes. This is a graphical illustration of melanocytes, that they're actually the pigment producing cells. They inhabit this intermediate layer, the uveal tract. And as you can see here, as you can see in this quick review, let's say summary of the interaction tyrosinase, the enzyme catalyzes the transformation of tyrosine to dopakin on and then through other reactions. And depending on the environment, we have the production of F melanin, or fair melanin, generally melanin which protects the skin from UV radiation. There are many anatomical locations that we can find melanocytes. So for example, we have the skin in the outer layer, which is the epidermis, or like we said before, in the uveal tract of the eye. But unfortunately, like other cell types in our body, sometimes they behave a little bit abnormal, and therefore they give rise to melanoma tumors such as the skin one, also known as cutaneous melanoma, or the one originated from the uveal track, which is called UV melanoma, and this was the main subject of my PhD research. These two entities are completely different. Although they are melanomas, they're completely different in terms of genetics, because, for example, we have Bindra and NRAS mutations in the cutaneous melanoma that are either super rare or completely absent of the UV melanoma landscape. They're different in terms of physiology, and I will explain later these three subcategories here. They're different in terms of metastasis, and the most important thing is that they are different in terms of therapy. So we have seen the last few years significant improvement in the patient's outcome for the targeted therapies or immunotherapies. However, UV melanoma is still highly unresponsive to all types of therapies, even to the ones that they have shown a benefit for cutaneous melanoma. So let's go to UVM melanoma key statistics, because in the beginning, my title writes that it's a rare disease. It's the most primary intraocular malignancy in the adult population. However, it consists three to 5% of total melanomas, as it is shown in this pie chart. And we count approximately worldwide, USA and Europe, from five to seven patients per million per year. Another additional, additional information I would like to give for the geographical let's say criteria is that when we go from Southern latitude to northern latitude, we have a higher rate of yoga melanoma, giving us a hint that maybe UV radiation is not the main factor for this disease. And speaking of risk factors, actually, they have shown in some research work that it is the light colored eyes and fair skin, however, which is bizarre, not the light colored hair. It's the old age. It's the observation of this plastic uveal NIV was congenital ocular melanocytosis Bob, one predisposition syndrome that we can see it also in other cancers. Observation of xenoderma pigmentosum. It's a low association so far, family predisposition, which is rarely characterized. And there has been found a UV signature, an association with Iris melanomas, with without, without meaning that this is the only and primary factor for Iris melanoma. But someone could ask me, Why study this cancer? Why study a rare cancer? So I have three arguments. Usually, one is based on the humanitarian, let's say, aspect, and the higher cause behind the research is that every patient is a patient, regardless if it has a rare disease or if it's a common disease, you name it, so every patient deserves to have a better quality of life, prolongation and The survival, etc. The other two arguments derived from statistics, which, like I said, Before, the mean age of diagnosis is 60 years, with a peak at 65 and according to the National Center of health statistics, or the Eurostat of Europe, you can see that we have a mean life expectancy of around 80 years in both regions. And so it affects the last third of a typical, a standard lifespan of an adult. Last argument is that 50% of the patients with primary disease, they develop metastasis, primarily in the liver, and so they die within a year. Doesn't work. Too bad I had an animation here. Okay. Is it stuck? Excuse me, something happened. Yeah, and like what I was saying, yeah, that they develop metastasis in primarily in the liver, and 80 to 9% of the patients, they die within a year. So it's very fast, like I said before, I'm gonna show what are these three categories. So primary UV melanoma is divided according to the sub anatomical location, so we have 90% of so the majority of the primary UV melanomas derives from choroid and then the remaining 10% is divided between ciliary body and Iris melanoma. The tumor mutational burden of UV melanoma is very low compared to other cancers, and we have seen that the main molecular drivers are gene Q and Gene 11 in the majority of the patients, and they're activating somatic mutations followed by cis ltr two, another type of gene for receptor and PLC before and PLCB three, It's homolog. These mutations are mutually exclusive. That means rarely, or actually almost never. We don't see them happening together at the same time in an individual or in a tumor. Unfortunately, we have disease progression, and for this we need we have, unfortunately, we require a second set of molecular alterations with a focal point on Bob one loss, followed by a translation initiation factor and splicing factors, which are also mutually exclusive. So we cannot have them at the same time in the same tumor or individual, and they're also strongly predictive for UV melanoma metastasis. So tumor classification of UV melanoma is based on molecular and cytogenetic criteria, mainly involving chromosome three status and Bob one laws. So for example, in this table, if we had an imaginary patient with Monosomy three and bat one loss, we would automatically categorize him as high metastatic risk, while the opposite. If there was D so many three or AIF one a x mutation or SF 3b, one has a low mutation, low metastatic risk. Excuse me. Harbor et al, as you can see here, and his research team that they're active in US currently, they have made, let's say they have added an additional layer of stratification of patients

Speaker 1  27:19
according to the prime expression, which is a preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma. And so they have find that inside the cluster of low metastases, when you have high expression of frame, you're automatically categorized to a higher level of metastasis. This has been extrapolated for the class two, for the the cluster of high metastatic risk with the same criteria. So they have also developed this prognostic tool that they're using the medical doctors and clinics, decision, TX UV melanoma bike, and it's available by Castle biosciences, and they stratify the patients to three categories, as you see here, according to a 15 gene signature analysis. And this panel can be complemented by prime expression or other markers here in order to predict the metastatic risk of a patient. So we move from the genetics now to the to the UV melanoma signaling. So it's a little bit of biology here. I'm going to try to make it as simple as possible. This blue line depicts the cellular membrane outside. We have the extracellular fluid, so we are outside of the cell here, and the other part refers to the cytoplasm, so we are inside the cell. What happens for the molecular landscape of UV melanoma is that we have seen that we have mutations that the jnan Q and Gene 11, primarily, they affect corresponding kinases and their pathways, such as the map K pathway, which is involved in cell proliferation, the PI 3k A Qt pathway for cell growth and survival, the raw GDP a signaling cytoskeletal remodeling and cell growth. And recently, the I'm also excuse me, the RF six that acts as a proximal node for gnaq signaling. Although, to my knowledge, and so far from the publications, there is no RF six mutations in UVM anomaly. Recently, there has been another pathway that has emerged has been highlighted the LKB one seek to pathway which is involved in the cell proliferation. And like I said, a wonderful research work from the lab that I was in have shown the implication with really amazing experiments of LKB 162 in the metastatic UV melanoma cell proliferation. Excuse me, there are inhibitors because naturally, someone could say, okay, these are the main pathways in UV melanoma. So let's try to inhibit them in order to have some sort of benefit, survival benefit, you name it. So there have been inhibitors, such as tramatinib, the factini, beverolimu, etc, that they're targeting these pathways in order to block them. They have shown an efficacy in vitro. However, when they go to clinics, this doesn't reflect the reality with our patients. And speaking of therapies for primary UV melanoma with just to remind you that 90% is choroidal melanoma, we have two approaches, which is radiotherapy and surgical approach. For radiotherapy, there is black protein therapy, charged particle radiotherapy, or also known proton beam radiotherapy. And for the surgical approach, we have either local resection of the tumor or complete nucleation of the eye. There is a tendency last 15 years, 10 to 15 years, the medical doctors are trying to have a more glow preserving approach, meaning to keep the eye for all the good reasons and try to avoid the complete nucleation, despite the favorable outcome from the local tumor control from the primary UV melanoma, like we said in previous slides, 50% of patients develop metastasis, and currently There is no standard treatment for these metastatic disease, and we have many clinical trials that they're running currently. So I'm going to show you three slides. We're not going to go through each therapy that's under clinical trial. I just wanted to show you that according to the criteria of phase one to three interventional study, type of study completed with results. There is a huge effort for this rare disease, for targeted therapies, either as mono therapies or as combination, for immunotherapies, for antibodies, vaccines, antiaging agents. They're really trying to do some effort over there and have something beneficial. So it was only in 2021 that we saw a little bit of light in the horizon with Stephen da fusp, also known as kimtrak. That's the commercially the commercial name. So tabindus is a be specific fusion protein that connects the GP 100 expressing neoplastic give melanoma cells with the T cells through CD three activation. And as we can see here in the first results, we have a benefit in the overall survival of Tebow treated patients compared to the control ones. However, a three years follow up. So this red line depicts the end of the first graph. A three years follow up shows still a benefit, but a benefit that decreases. And the most important disadvantage of this therapy, unfortunately, is that the patients need to have a specific HLA allele, the one that you see here, and so 9% of the patients actually respond to this treatment. So what we can summarize from this is that we have the primary disease, we have local tumor control, we have metastatic disease, and nothing that works for every patient. So still, 90% of the patients suffer from metastatic given melanoma. And so there is a critical need to identify efficient and global therapies for all the patients out there. For this, we can use virus research strategies, and I'm just going to give you an example here of what my lab did prior to my arrival. And so, like every fundamental research, we start with a cellular model that helps us to work in a standardized environment. And for example, also for me, for my research, during my PhD, I used these cell lines that they derive both from human primary disease or metastatic, either from liver or skin metastases. They harbor different types of mutations. As you see here, there's a whole panel. They express Bob one, which doesn't cover the non the Bob one loss in the cell in the human tumors, unfortunately, but that's because Bob one deficient cell lines are very difficult to grow in culture, and they have a particular chromosome three status, as we have said before. So using the cell lines, oh, and just to compliment an extra information is that we use different cell lines, and the more, the better. That is, because if they carry different mutations, we can actually reflect our discoveries into a broader field of genetic diversity among the patient's population. So the more cell lines we use, and the more common elements that we find between between the cell lines. This can helps us. This can rise the possibility to cover a broad, a bigger, a wider genetic background in the patient's population.

Unknown Speaker  35:39
Excuse me,

Speaker 1  35:42
okay, so drop out genome, CRISPR, Cass screening was conducted prior to my arrival, and they identified genes essential for proliferation and or survival of metastatic UV melanoma cells. And we're going to go, it's a very big title, a little bit intimidating, but we're going to go one by one the words to explain it. So it is a dropout genome Crispin screening, because it's a negative screening, that means that the cells in which the genes have been efficiently knocked out, they will gradually get depleted from the total cellular pool by the end of the experiment. It's a CRISPR cas9 screening, because we have, of course, you know the the acronym is the clustered, regularly interspace short, Palindromic Repeats. It's a Nobel Prize of 2020 from Dr Dune, Dr chapativ. And what is CRISPR cas9 it's a tool that helps us to modify the DNA. Where is my video that helps us modify the DNA of many living organisms, such as, for example, animals, plants, insects and humans. This method is based on the adaptive immune system of bacteria and once against the viral infections, and once the bacterium senses a virus, it produces a complimentary sequence to the virus known as CR RNA, and another sequence, which is tracer, RNA. And all these three then become a complex along with the Casa nine protein. And once they found their target, they cut the gene, or they cut the sequence like molecular scissors, inactivating the virus. So the last few years, researcher has researchers has to take advantage of this method, and they genetically modified with precision, the DNA of organisms. And so they see that when the complex forms inside the eukaryotic cell, we can cut a gene, we can delete a gene that we desire and follow its effect. Okay, so why genome? CRISPR, cast line screening kingdom is the total set of the protein kinases that are encoded by the genome of an organism, their enzymes, their phosphatases, their major regulators of complex cell processes, and their sub categories, tyrosine, threonine and serine, have been well studied compared to other molecules in pharmacological in a pharmacological point of view, their major drug targets in oncology the last 30 years, their lot size offers us many molecular options if we want to identify therapeutic targets. Their active site is conserved, so they're draggable targets. That means that they have in between them, they have they share similar structure and function, and many kinase drugs we have seen so far that they can be repurposed, or they will be repurposed from one disease to another, and specifically for yoga, melanoma, just to remind you, a number of alterations are correlated with the activation of several kinases, and MAP kinase pathway is a common event in this disease. So CRISPR cast nine screening workflow looks like this.

Speaker 1  39:13
So for example, they have used the representative human omm, 1.3 quantity, static UV, melanoma cell lines. They infected these cells with single guide RNAs. Excuse me. They infected the cells with the human genome Brunello library, which is commercially available from antigen and it targets 760 kinases. The cells were subjected to pure omessin selection. This is a technical detail. Then they perform the proliferative screen. And then from the cells from the proliferate in the end of the screen, they extracted the genomic DNA. These was subjected to next generation sequencing analysis, and then through a software known as magic software they perform the bioinformatic analysis. So this workflow allows us to go from pool of genes to potential targets that affect the proliferation or the metastatic capacity, the survival, survival capacity of metastatic UV melanoma cells. And like I said before, in the lab that I was they published a wonderful work in Embo Molecular Medicine in 2023 and I invite you to see the research paper after my presentation, because I'm just going to show you a few key points that they did with some experiments. So they showed that l q b1, c2, loss drives u v melanoma proliferation with an implication of SLC, eight, A, one and ROS inhibition. So like we said before, with the CRISPR Casa nine screen, we can identify potential targets, and this screen has shown that l q b1, loss is critical to regulate the metastatic UV melanoma proliferation. But just like every screen, we want to validate this result in case we have off target effects or false false positives. So by using single guide, RNAs, three different ones, they monitored the protein level of LKB one in this western blood analysis, and they also saw with the proliferation assay the corresponding phenotype. And indeed, LKB one loss drives, promotes, favors, even more the proliferation of metastatic UV melanoma cells compared to the control conditions. Usually for this type of of results, we want to have a risk experiment which shows the causality, and it is an experiment that shows how we can restore the phenotype by adding back and shows the specificity of this phenomenon upon the deletion of the candidate LKB one in this in this research work. So as you can see here, when we delete LKB one, we have higher proliferation compared to the control one when we add back the kinase dead form. And just to remind you, when we talk about kinases, usually we need the full kinase form in order to be active. So when we add back the kinase dead form, we pretty much have the same effect when we delete LKB one, but when they added back the wild type, and they restored probably the Cascades, the molecular cascades inside the cells, then the level of the proliferation drops back to the same level as the control one. And this works the rescue experiment. We say that it works like a non enough switch. And so these experiments, and many more that they show them on the paper, indeed reveals that lqb One is directly responsible for the observed phenotype. Next they wanted to go a little bit closer, let's say, to real life, to real life conditions, closer from cell lines, is the in vivo experiment. And they used mice where they inserted xenograft tumors via subcutaneous inoculation. And indeed, if you see the two conditions where LPB one knockout, meaning lqb One deficient tumors, they tend to grow in also way more compared to the ones that they have the wild type. And so that means that indeed, the fact that we have seen in the proliferation assay is similar to the one that we see in a real life, real organism matrix, such as the mouse. When we validate the phenotype and we validate the results, we want to see what are the mechanisms behind this specific phenotype, so they perform here a transcriptomic analysis with LPB one knockout conditions compared to control ones, and they have seen a number of deregulated genes up and down. And one of the top hits that popped up was LCC eight, a one. It's a solute carrier family eight member one, if I remember well, and it's involved in the intracellular metabolism of calcium. Next, they perform another analysis, which is closed transcriptomic, but not the same, the gene set enrichment analysis, and they have seen a particular enrichment in the hub of calcium metabolism. Again, they perform another set of other experiments for qualitative characterization, and indeed, it has been validated. And of course, they performed a rescue experiment where, as we take the result from the transcriptomic analysis, when we knock out LKB, one, we have a higher expression of SLC, eight, A, one, when we put back the kinase dead form, we don't have much of a difference, but when we get back to the wild type form, we have almost the same level, or it drops close to the same level as the control conditions. Again, we have a successful on and off switch, and if you see in the upper part of the slide, we are slowly but gently creating something that we call molecular cascade. So we have the first part, which is the L q b1, and then we have a potential downstream target, which is else, SLC eight A, one. We don't know what happens in between. We don't know if SLC eight a one has the same impact as LKB one. So for this reason, they did a number of other experiments to validate the downstream target, and indeed in LKB one knockout conditions where SLC eight, a one should be over expressed, they used an SRNA gene silencing protocol, another inhibitor technique to reduce SLC eight a one in mRNA level and in the protein level. And they saw the opposite effect, exactly what we were expecting after the inhibition of both molecular targets. And so SLC eight a one partially controls the proliferative capacity. So in another level of discussion, LPB, one, according to scientific literature, has many downstream targets that have been well studied. However, in this CRISPR cast nine screening they have seen only seek two, which is among the downstream targets to go in the same direction as L, Q, b1, so they thought that it would be a good strategy to focus on seek to indeed, they perform another validation of the factual impact of inhibition of sick two with individual single guide, RNAs. And as you can see, it exert, it exerts the exactly the same effect, so higher proliferation rate compared to the control conditions. They also perform rescue experiment. That was good. So switch on, the switch is on and off. So that gives us specificity, that gives us link between these two. So we have, we have created the first hub, which is LKB, one affect seek to but do we know if seek to affects associate a one? That still remains the question. And so, of course, they perform another set of experiments to prove this link here, this association. And so indeed, by putting back seek to in, seek to knock out conditions, or putting back c2, in L, Q, b1, knockout conditions, it again the active form. It drops back the same level of SLC eight, A, one. So it is validated that seek to regulate SLC eight, A, one. So we spoke before about calcium metabolism, and it's known by scientific literature that high mitochondrial calcium results in high mitochondrial bros, which has a proliferative and survival advantage of cancer cells in most of the cases. So they also validated with another set of experiments, and they have seen also that l q b1, or c2 loss results to a higher, as they call it, addiction of metastatic given melanoma cells to calcium. And the same happens with L q b1, or seek to knock out for the mitochondrial Ros. So they thought, okay, instead of target targeting these molecules, why not target the mitochondrial Ros? Another experiment of flow cytometry, has shown that when they used the mitochondrial targeted antioxidant mitochondol or and in combination, the SLC eight, a one inhibitor KBR 7943

Speaker 1  49:34
exerts some effects towards the increased apoptosis of metastatic Given melanoma cells. When they did only the meter Q in L, Q, b1, or seek to knock out conditions, they saw no transfer of the cellular population towards the apoptotic part, because in flow cytometry and x in five is usually used for the to monitor the apoptosis when they use the SLC eight a one inhibitor, again, they didn't see much of a difference. But when they use the combination, they saw a good shift of the population towards the apoptosis. So they suggest, how about CO targeting the SLC eight a one and the mitochondria rose. And how about this? If it could be developed as a therapeutic option before, of course, going to the clinical trials and starting speaking about development of therapy, we want to see some pre clinical implications. So they did exactly the same thing that they did here with UV melanoma cells. They did it with, excuse me, using they performed an experiment in vivo using a femic Nude mice, which they subjected to subcutaneous injection of LKB one knockout cells. And so they compared the treated conditions with the control one. This is the the empty vehicle of the of the experiment. This is the control of the experiment. And so indeed, when they used the SLC eight, a one inhibitor, we don't have much of a difference again, or my 2q, alone. But when we do the combination of these two, we have a significantly smaller size in our tumors. So this is an extra scientific argument that this could be a potential, that this could develop as a therapeutic strategy for UV melanoma patients. So now I can actually confidently tell you that indeed, LKP one, Sig two, is part of the molecular landscape of UV melanoma and the loss of these two drives the cellular proliferation of metastatic UV melanoma cells. But having research results and going and exhibiting pre clinical results is very nice. However, there is a real need out there for patients, and entrepreneurship could be a potential step on how you can transfer your research work from the lab to something which is concrete for the patients out there, for for their benefit. So I'm going to talk a little bit about entrepreneurship for a rare cancer. I'm going to give a few definitions, just to make sure we're on the same page. So biotechnology, it's a multi disciplinary field based on the application of biological systems where organisms or derivative derivatives of these organisms in order to develop technologies and products that improve human health and environment, the goal of these companies is to create innovations In healthcare, agriculture industry and Environmental Sciences and some examples. You probably have seen these gene therapies, bioengineered crops or pharmaceutical development. But like every endeavor, even the ones with higher cause, they have challenges. So I have divided the challenges into two groups, the scientific and research challenges and the financial and funding challenges. So usually, especially for rare cancers, we lack appropriate models, such as animal models, cell lines, PDX or one of the most important arguments is that we have a small patient population, which also impacts the clinical trial design later on. And for the financial funding part, we have limited access to funding, especially to the non dilutive one, just like grants or crowd funding. And for example, crowd funding is affected by the limited awareness and advocacy for this kind of diseases, meaning that you have less funding possibilities. And in another step, in another layer, we have the pricing and reimbursement challenges. That means that when we get to the end point where we develop these therapies, how do we deal with the cost? How do we deal with distribution and this, this is between either national, international or worldwide associations that you you have to deal, to make deals and to make arrangements for this. And a huge, huge, let's say, enormous, lines of regulations and guidelines. But there are possible solutions that can help you with this kind of challenges, such as collaborating with academic institutes. You can develop shared resources, such as specific lab equipment that you have or some specific techniques or protocols. You can join the rare disease consortium that you can have access to a large data set, and especially through artificial intelligence. You can make some first steps without needing any wet lab experiments before usually they follow adaptive, adaptive clinical trial design and the establishment of global collaborations helps you to have access for patient population in other countries, while this usually also requires significant research maturity due to genetic differences. For the financial part, of course, the golden standard is to have non dilutive funds leverage orphan drug incentives. For example, orphan drug designation from FDA in us or EMA in Europe, which includes reduced fees, market exclusivity, etc. Engage mission driven investors. That means, excuse me, you're trying to find people that they want to fund and they want to financially support you, just for the cause or primarily for the cause, not for the benefit, not for the market. You're trying to raise awareness with educational campaigns, and, of course, use the incubators and accelerators as a safety net to mature your company enough before you go out there. So I'm gonna finish this presentation by talking for a biotech, Roca therapeutics. It's an example of a biotech from metastatic UV melanoma. It's based in nice and I had the honor to meet one of the co founders, Dr mayvaux, in ours, and one of our sessions from nuclear France, initiator organization that I'm an external advisor. So it's a biotech that they do, first in class drug candidate development for yoga melanoma. Primarily, we're going to focus a little bit on the RCT 001, their active compound against metastasis of yoga melanoma. So it's an orally available small molecule. It's an inhibitor, and it targets these long whatever names are here. But what is the most important is that these axes here is involved in angiogenesis and inflammation. So you're targeting to block angiogenesis and inflammation of the tumor they work with a workflow that involves drug development, sorting the options, optimizing the compound options, and evaluating them before they move on to sell to Big Pharma. And their goal is also to expand their discoveries to other ocular diseases such as neurovascular glaucoma. And I also had the honor to and the privilege to be able to quickly interview Dr mayva dufiss. And so I can offer you here some real life test testimony of how it is to have a biotech for a rare cancer. And so for example, for the lack of appropriate models, she told me, especially for UV melanoma, because we know that there is no immuno competent mouse model which is appropriate for the UV melanoma. They used alternative animal models, such as zebrafish and chicken embryo. They used net in the end, the immuno competent mouse for other cancers, in order to demonstrate the drugs efficacy in a whole organism, and quoting her words in the end, you want to deliver something with as much as like minimum toxicity that you can have, because the truth lies in clinical trials. For the small patient population and the clinical trial design, she told me that they followed two strategies. I think these are the general strategies that you have for for clinical trials. You can have the slower one, but more specific with patients from UVM melanoma only, or you can have patients with other cancers, including your melanoma, which is faster but more diverse results. And again, you need to have a particular research maturity in order to translate the results that you will obtain from the second

Speaker 1  59:36
approach. And lastly, they have a geographical advantage, and someone has to work with what they have. So in France, there are two centers, two institutes that they treat patients with UV melanoma. I think one is here in Paris, and the other one is located in nice it's the San Antoine la casani. So they could have straightforward collaborations with them about the patient population and the clinical trial part for them, limited access to funding, like we have seen before, they develop compounds for UVM alanoma with the possibility to extend to other cancers. So this is an argument that they use for the investors to tell them that they will open up to other markets, to for other diseases, etc, and for the pricing and reimbursement challenges they have chosen not to deal with it. Once the drug is finished, they will sell it to a big pharma, and they want to continue to grow like their main goal is to continue to grow as a biotech through their pipeline of discoveries. And one last challenge that I didn't even cross my mind, and I found it amazing as a quality of the character of this researcher is that she told me that the most the most difficult challenge is the ethical one, because, quoting her words, it can be complicated being contacted by patients or patients family who ask you when your treatment will be available, because they've reached a therapeutic dead end, and they're seeking advice. It is not easy to deal with it, and it always hurts. I always try to be positive, to reassure them and to remind them that I'm not a doctor and is the doctor who can best advise them. So it's as I've seen and also from other people that they have talked in in our nuclear events, biotech founders, and as I've seen, it's a very rich and full journey. However, it has challenges which sometimes are quite difficult. But what I see that drives these people to to continue their effort is that even if it's even if they're rare diseases. In the end, researching these rare diseases is important because you gain unexpected insights into fundamental biology that could be translated also for other diseases or cancers, etc. And if you put all of the disease together, I think the the orphan diseases count from 3.5 to 7% worldwide. This translates to around 300 to 500 million people. And rare genetic diseases are collectively common. If you put them all together, in the end, they are very common. So quoting the words from another researcher and medical doctor, Dr Anna greka, which I wish I knew her, because she's in MIT and Harvard, but who knows, in her TEDx talk about the rare diseases and why we should keep going on and investigating this, this kind of conditions, is that from a few to more and more, until we have precision cures for all, because each patient is a patient, even if for the numbers, is just numbers, or for the statistics, just statistics, each patient deserves a better quality of life, prologation of life, all the therapeutic benefits that could have as a person who gets treatment. Thank you very much for your attention. And if you want to contact me, these are my email, my LinkedIn profile, and of course, I'm available now for discussion. Thank you very much. Wow. I hope it wasn't too boring.

Bill Clearfield  1:03:49
Doctor, Dr Quinn was on the edge of his seat the whole time. So that's God, I don't know where to start. There's a couple of questions in the in the comments. So, you know, we're mostly deal with clinicians and those kinds of things. So this behind the scenes, you know, research is not something that, you know, I've see a whole lot of, I don't want to speak for everybody here, but, you know, it's, it's a fascinating world when you, when you look under the covers, I guess, or, you know, under the covers. So I told you guys last week that she was smart.

Speaker 1  1:04:37
Oh no, no, I'm I'm just stubborn because it requires a tons of amount of work and laboratory time.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:45
Yeah, in the chat, there's a couple of articles that have been highlighted that are, you know, there's links to, so I can't look at them myself, because, because I'm the, you know, the host here, but there, I'm not sure what they are. And the first comment is from Robert Fortier, something, B, B, E, R, and it's in French, so I don't know what it says,

Speaker 1  1:05:12
because he just thanks me that I'm here. My Merci beaucoup. Monsieur Robert Fauci Benson, if I'm saying correct, I hope you, you, you like my presentation, and it was, I hope everything was understandable. I didn't want to sound too much research. You know, the goal is to understand, not to show off or so.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:37
I'll ask the few questions in the comments. And I'm not sure. Is Dr Nario still here? Do you have any questions online? Yes, we do. All right, so let me ask these. First, could you comment on vitamin D levels of patients in your studies? Do you do you look at those at all? Also,

Speaker 1  1:05:56
first of all, I don't do clinical studies actually, and I didn't use biopsies for my PhD research.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:06
Okay, all right, yeah, we, we were at an integrative dermatology conference about a year ago, Dr Nario and I, and there was a whole hour talk on vitamin D levels and melanomas. So what

Speaker 1  1:06:24
type of melanomas? Because, as I showed previously, UV melanoma is very, very, very different of cutaneous melanoma and proven to respond completely different to therapies, actually non response.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:39
That's the next question, is there any

Speaker 5  1:06:40
risk or cutaneous, they remember, dermatology,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:45
is there any,

Bill Clearfield  1:06:47
is there any risk for those who have skin melanomas or cutaneous melanomas that It either is a, you know, the etiology is the UV or or it can, you know, metastasize there.

Speaker 1  1:07:02
So I don't know so so far from what I've read, if you have skin melanoma, that cutaneous melanoma, because it depends you know different types of skin sorry, you can have different types of skin cancer. So if you have cutaneous melanoma so far, it does not mean it doesn't count as a risk factor. I don't know if there is any research like later research work, so to my knowledge, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:07:34
have you seen any effect of melatonin to suppress the micro metastasis? Is that something not

Speaker 1  1:07:41
in my not in my research part, because I didn't do any actually, I tested a few drugs to target my own protein, which, like I said, it's unpublished results, yet they supposed to be non specific inhibitors of my protein, for example, and I didn't even see the inhibition and effect even from these drugs, so let alone melatonin, which is I'm going through this scientific point of view, if it's a non specific inhibitor, I'm waiting a lot of off target effects or off target phenotypes, and even not working at all. But this is just speculation.

Benoit Tano  1:08:27
I have a quick question. You said this test in people who have a tendency of having this melanoma, what is the environmental effect pollution or anything like that, towards these melanomas,

Speaker 1  1:08:46
not a research study proving a direct link of environmental pollution to UV melanoma so far.

Benoit Tano  1:08:55
What about the sun, SUN exposures, or anything like that.

Speaker 1  1:09:02
So for the UV radiation, there is one research study, I think, somewhere here, if you're interested to see, there's only one, I think, one research study that they try to find genetic signature, and it was only in a few cases of Iris melanoma that there was an association with UV signature. Yes, Johansson nature, I think no, it's shields, jam of theology, 2013 so it was only this one that showed, however, it showed Association not being a primary risk factor. So so far, no UV radiation signature associated with UV melanoma, which is also depicted by the Southern to northern latitude higher rate, which is contradictory if we had a UV signature

Benoit Tano  1:10:00
right now. Did you look into Australia and other places the prevalence worldwide, or this UV colanoma?

Speaker 1  1:10:14
So for my research, like I said, I didn't have any biopsies, because I wasn't doing this part for the slides that I showed you. Initially, I had only the European one, so I did last minute the US one. And for the worldwide, it's a very I think it covers US, Canada and Europe, if I remember, well, so it doesn't cover Africa, Asia. That means it's not worldwide on one hand, but on the other hand, you have to work with the statistics that you have, right?

Speaker 4  1:10:55
Okay, very good. Thank you. So can you hear me? Guys?

Speaker 6  1:11:01
Yes, yeah, good. I'm Dr Halas here. Hello. We have a case and a nice presentation, by the way, and it happened that I also invite Dr Joseph James, because we are working on a case with you. Vila Milano, I don't know if Dr Joseph is here, is hearing me or not, but I didn't invite him here, and this means, oh, good, good. So I will introduce it to Doctor juice, if you can go ahead and continue. But we're looking for doing immunotherapy. She is HLA, a positive, which is good. Yes, she is a blue eye, which is something that you mentioned about the risk, risk the and we are thinking about using chemtrack antibodies, but we want to load inside plate this nano particle using nano medicine technology so that we can target it into the pathology versus going everywhere and and we also doing a lot of integrative therapy for the patients, including polyphenols and and also planning to do photodynamic therapy with indocyanine Green and metal and blue. There's a good article about photodynamic therapy using indocyanine Green and metal in blue, and then activate them with infrared light and red light, and possibly help to induce apoptosis in those tumor but as a combination of immunotherapy for the dynamic therapy, do you suggest any chemotherapy, or any other things that we can, you know, integrate it in our cocktail, and then I'll let Dr Joseph to even follow up after

Speaker 1  1:12:45
me. So first of all, I cannot take the decision because I'm not a medical doctor from a research point of view. The thing that is available in southwe out there, it's the FDA approved team track, as long as you follow, I think the protocol and this, you have to talk with the corresponding people. And if she has the if she's HLA positive to the specific HLA that's required, that means there is a match other than that. Right now in research, we don't have something extra. And if you want to have more information, for example, I can bring you in contact with the ophthalmologist that we had in my laboratory, and he can provide you extra insights, because he also treats UV melanoma patients, and he's also doing a PhD in our lab. So he's really in both sides, medical doctor and research, yeah, so on my side,

Speaker 6  1:13:51
that would be great. Dr Joseph, are you there? If you can, we can get her phone number, your phone number, the other doctor phone number, and see if we can collaborate and possibly publish it. Are you there? Doctor Joseph, yes,

Speaker 1  1:14:04
you can find me on on LinkedIn. If you want to send me a message, drop me a message, and then I can give you back the the email and the phone number of this doctor.

Speaker 6  1:14:16
That would be great. You know, I think what's up, folks, number, it's good thing too, if you have but LinkedIn, I have LinkedIn, and Doctor Joseph has LinkedIn, but go ahead, Doctor juice, if you want to add something here, because it's the case that you're taking care of.

Speaker 7  1:14:33
Yeah, just unless you may have answered this already. But have you come across any cases where the patient has had full remission, or possibly the word we're not supposed to say, cure

Speaker 1  1:14:50
me. I have not been involved in this type of it's mostly, this is what we call the clinics, and I'm not there. I'm way behind. That's why I told you to have Thank you.

Speaker 7  1:15:08
Just in your in your exploration and researching. Have you have you ever heard of any cases where a patient had this diagnosis, and they did not have to have a nucleation. They did not have to, they did not metastasize, and and they lived and

Speaker 1  1:15:36
not not the remote. I don't know this kind of information, I I've never searched okay, but it's a good question, actually, because there is a remaining 20% that remains. Yes, please.

Speaker 8  1:15:49
Hi, it's Dr Patel. Have you in your experimental studies, how much regression Have you seen of the growth?

Speaker 1  1:15:59
Well, in my study, which is the opposite thing of the research work that I showed you before, I have seen around 70 to 8% reduction in the proliferative capacity. And when I perform boiling chamber assays, which is an acid where you can, kind of like model the metastasis of the cancer. It's the transwell migration. It's a very standardized environment and a very artificial one, but it can give you a hint. I also saw around 60% of reduced transwell migration capacity. So I hope that it can move after my departure from the lab, and it can be developed in therapies.

Speaker 8  1:16:50
The immunotherapy that you are using

Unknown Speaker  1:16:56
is I'm not a medical doctor,

Speaker 8  1:16:59
then I understand that. I understand that. I understand 100% but what I want to understand is the the molecule that you're using. Is it available on experimental basis?

Speaker 1  1:17:15
You mean for my research, because for my results outside your

Unknown Speaker  1:17:20
research. Scott bass, if you want to try, is it available

Speaker 1  1:17:29
the ones from the clinical trials? You mean, yes, I think not, because, since they did not pass the phases of clinical trials, they're not approved.

Speaker 8  1:17:45
And do you have any results of your clinical clinical trial where the progression has been stopped and there were no metastasis?

Speaker 1  1:18:00
No, because I'm not focused on this subject.

Speaker 8  1:18:03
No, you are not focused, but you have not integrated that your research in a clinical research, is that there is any overlap, or are there? I mean, you know, usually the experimental whenever they do it, and then it is followed by the clinical research, and they try to see that if there is any clinical improvement which is noticed similar to that of the experimental research. And you say that in experiment that you saw 60, 70% reduction in the size and more than 60% reduction in our no cases of metastasis. So I just want to see that whether it was there any clinical imposition of the same thing, I need to

Unknown Speaker  1:18:53
have somebody like Jasmine Crockett, not yet,

Speaker 1  1:18:55
because, at least for my, my PhD results, if you remember the the previous slides that I saw, I showed an example of this recent strategy being a scientific publication. I'm at the level where, or at least where I left we were at the level where we're trying to characterize the mechanisms behind the effect that we see behind the effect of lower proliferation or lower migration that we see in the metastatic UV melanoma cells, and this this requires quite a few time to be able to have concrete laboratory results before we move on to potentially develop an inhibitor, or use the non specific inhibitors, if there are any, that they work and then move on with in vivo experiment, so to have the same results in an animal model, for example, and then move on to the clinical part, where it's phase one, two, and then hopefully three, but this is too early right now. And

Unknown Speaker  1:20:07
have they done only phase one or phase two? No,

Speaker 1  1:20:10
no. We are still in the pre clinical part, just characterizing the mechanism. Well, not just because it's a huge amount of work, but there we I was, and when I left, we characterized the mechanisms that we see the phenomenon in the in the in vitro part, meaning cells in cell culture.

Speaker 6  1:20:30
Have you done any anti PDL one or anti CTL for immunotherapy? Did it work for this? Well, she's,

Speaker 8  1:20:38
she's, she's not a clinic. She's not a clinician. So Dr halaza, it is not a very good question, even

Speaker 1  1:20:45
for for in vitro experiments. I was not involved in the immuno part, okay?

Speaker 8  1:20:51
You, you had a bad one gene, right? You, from what you showed it, classification one, two and classification two, A and B, or whatever was, and you just show in that there was a background gene and and that was, that was the responsible for more aggressive nature of the tumor, right? Yes, yeah. So you have about one. So most of the time in clinical cases, we do not have any biopsy results or any they they, they told us that we cannot do biopsy of the patient because I saw that patient first and and she did not get the biopsy. But we were, we were able to reduce it considerable. And then, then, then, after probably six weeks of not receiving it, and then she started getting it, and, and I think she, she has not developed any, as if, as long as I know has developed any metastasis, is correct. Dr Joseph, he's a reason. And Dr Joseph, that's not the case. Okay, he's not there.

Speaker 6  1:22:06
Dr Joseph, his voice today is not good. I don't know he has some some, yeah,

Speaker 8  1:22:10
yeah. I heard that, yeah. But I as long as I know that she doesn't have yet the metastasis, which is like she has gone almost eight, nine months with and after, after beginning the treatment, probably so. I mean, she has good progress. But you know what we want to know? I mean, there are some patients that I know that no innucleation was done, and and after 10 years, still, the tumor is still in the eye, and they are okay. So they may be of the characteristic what you showed in in group one that did not have a back one gene. I'm here, yeah. So it may be a good idea to show to see. But unfortunately, we cannot have any biopsy on this. They just want to inoculate her eye. And what about circulating

Speaker 6  1:23:08
tumor cells from our GCC? You think they can do some DNA analysis on it? If there's any circulating tumor cells?

Speaker 8  1:23:16
Yeah, they have done it. They have done it, but not for this change. But I mean, if we ask them, maybe, maybe they can, I think they should. You can. We can contact them and find out, yeah, good connection

Speaker 6  1:23:31
with RGC now, possibly working with them, helping them, but I'll see if there's if we can connect with the the MD side of the French doctor as well. So you can help us to give us some other inputs and other experiments that would be good. I already add you on LinkedIn, Dr peach, and I wish if you could add me, and then we can invite the other doctor, possibly, and buy one day meetings. Can you do? Can he comes and I have a Monday webinar, and baby you and him and Dr Joseph and Dr Patel will get together and see if we can add more to to the table here.

Speaker 1  1:24:15
So He's based in nice and he can, of course, participate, I think, in a web if he's available, because he also works a lot. And the other thing I will tell you is that I've shown you in previous slide, maybe I can share again, is that there is a specific prognostic tool that they use, and it's available in us. So I'm sure you could search for it, the decision DX UV melanoma by Castle Biosciences that predicts the metastatic risk of UV melanoma patients. So if I could say something is you can go and search for this and ask information and how you can apply this for your patients, for example, for

Unknown Speaker  1:24:56
normal say they voted for Trump.

Speaker 6  1:24:58
And can you? Can you find out one of those Mondays, you and him will, or even for Tuesday for Doctor William, doesn't matter. They were all the same team, and we can have another meeting and discuss this, because we have a patient here, and plus, I have another lab, which is rgcc, and I can bring them on the table to see if we can translate this into more clinical oriented or more clinical perspective.

Speaker 1  1:25:30
Yeah, I can provide you his contact details, and then you can set up a meeting with him, because that depends on his availability. Of course, send

Bill Clearfield  1:25:41
it to me and I'll, I'll make sure that I just

Speaker 7  1:25:45
wanted to chime in, just really quick, because I, for some reason, I had some issues with the app. No, the patient has not metastasized, and her CEA has gone down to normal. And the only other question is, you know this tumor masses, is it just scar tissue? Could that be the case or or not? And those are that's another question we're trying to find out. And we're trying to also reduce the scar tissue with like Losartan eye drops and all of this stuff. Yeah, and we should probably retest her to to see if there's evidence of of metastasis.

Speaker 1  1:26:33
I cannot answer to that because that's more clinical. That

Speaker 7  1:26:38
was that was more in response to Dr Patel. I was just answering her question. I couldn't get on when, when I was trying to

Speaker 5  1:26:48
Doctor Joseph, if I can chime in there. So working with cancer for almost like six, seven years, melanoma is really one of the harder pathologies to treat, and with cancer markers really see is there's no known cancer markers for for melanoma so far, and those ca can be any inflammatory condition can come up that can help also, but it's not specific. And in regards to RGC us working together for that long, even then, they would actually tell us that circulating cancer cells are not accurate diagnostic markers in relation to the clinical progression of a cancer, so meaning the clinical presentation still trumps the CTC number of rgcc results. That's why it can be used in some specific cases. But if you're going to decide your clinical management on on a circulating cancer cell or CTC number, that's probably something that they wouldn't advise. So it's always going to be a combination of different diagnostics and assessments of the medical practitioner.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:56
Okay, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:57
Okay. You have any questions on the email there. Doctor Nario, yes,

Speaker 5  1:28:01
so doctor, Dr Evangelii, there's a lot of thank yous for you, and very interesting talk. And one of the things that I think struck our viewers here is mighty Q. So we had mighty Q already on board who spoke in our webinars, and it's actually my talk, when all my token, all as a their main ingredient, what is, what is the theory behind this? Is it because it's, it's a, it's a co Q, 10, that goes through the mitochondria. That's why it's more effective. That's why it works with your other inhibitor. Is there something that got derived from your study in relation to the effectiveness of mitoch.

Speaker 1  1:28:45
So it's not my study, it's the research from a scientific paper from a colleague, researcher from that lab that I did my PhD in, and that's why I presented it. But just for this so far, they have not characterized exactly what are the molecular let's say, interactions and the molecular cascades in detail. What they have shown is that, from the results I showed you before, if you want, I can open actually, and it's too much science, and can be super boring, but that's, that's our side, so that's

Speaker 5  1:29:25
okay with us. We like those type of things and dosing. Also, I think that's one of the questions, since you're at it,

Speaker 1  1:29:35
yeah, I need to search in the paper so I can. I did not write it down. Yeah, yeah, I know I should have. My audience is medical doctors. I should have, I know, so we pay attention, but it's not our primary, primary, primary goal. So as you see here, after they have seen the phenotype, which actually it's the opposite of what we want to do with cancer cells, because when we inhibit LKB one, we have higher proliferation in metastatic UV melanoma cells. So what we want in a hypothetical scenario, what we want to do is we want to have, let's say, a tumor. This is a very general statement. What I'm going to say here, and a very simplistic one. We want a tumor that has LKB one, which is a tumor suppressor gene. We don't want a tumor that has lost its LKB one, because if it has lost we see a higher proliferation capacity. And so after they have observed this phenomenon, they wanted to see what are the the mechanisms. They wanted to characterize the mechanisms behind this phenotype that we see. And so they identified the calcium metabolism implication in terms of associate as a top hit. The Gene enrichment analysis. And then with some other experiments that they have done, they identified higher addiction to intracellular calcium and mitochondrial Ros. So I think besides this, I mean, if you want, you could check it with even more detail. The publication, they applied the treatment, and they suggest that CO targeting the SLC eight, a one and the mitochondrial ROS as a therapeutic option. But from these experiments, which these are cells in a flow cytometer, and these are cells that have been developed as tumor inside the nothing, excuse me, new advice. We have many more steps in between to take in order to safely suggest to medical doctors later on to use it for therapeutic benefit. Well,

Speaker 5  1:31:58
the important key there is, as you can see, mitoq is basically a very good synergistic therapy in relation to that specific slide that you just shown. And why is that significant for us? Because, again, as we've been working with RGC, we have this ability to test for natural compounds that actually can help with our cancer therapies and RGC. I don't know if you're familiar, but that's also, I guess, in Greece, it says this was what we call it, the Greek test. But anyway, for clinicians out there, that's something significant. And I think what the product was emphasized on that slide was actually the plane Mito Q, because there are different types of minor Q, Mito Qi, Mito Q, I guess even cardiovascular. And I think that's pertaining to the plain mitoch there in that that specific slide that you should showed, another one would be so you mentioned about the risk factor of aging. So this is probably a good question that, could you relate this probably to the telomerase activity that also that is decreasing as aging moves forward, and thus makes us susceptible for this type of cancer. Are you familiar with telomerase question?

Speaker 1  1:33:17
Yeah, good question. I'm not sure. At least, I think I've not read any publication which associates I think telomerase activity and UV melanoma,

Speaker 5  1:33:35
right? I mean, again, I think they're talking in general here. Just because, as you shorten your telomerase that, of course, the telomeres decreases in length, and thus more prone to cancer does occur, not only in specific melanoma cases, but in general cancer. I think that has been proven. Another one is the question of so you showed CRISPR, have you heard of the technology called superior Omegle nucleotide therapy or so T Okay, so that's something that's also, I think rgcc is working on, in relation to the even label that as a cancer vaccine that actually produces messenger RNA, reproduces a messenger RNA from your Cancer cells that prevents the proliferation of the cancer itself and not affecting normal cells in the system as you infuse this in the in the body. But I guess CRISPR is just almost similar to that technology in a specific way. And any anything that, according to your literature search about regular chemotherapy that could actually make your reveal melanoma, respond to it, or just specifically, immunotherapy that you've seen on your literature search.

Speaker 1  1:34:51
So only for the debent of FISP so far, for the other therapies, actually for the other inhibitors, for example, they show an effect in vitro, but they're still under clinical trial in case they can be optimized or can be combined with something else that re sensitizes the cell to some beneficial phenomena like apoptosis or senes or whatever. So so far, it's a debent of FISP, which only 9% of the patients are responsive. So that's why it's so lethal, because it acts fast, and we still don't have any any treatment, even the treatment that could prolong the survival of a patient, right? Globally for all patients, not only for 9% you

Speaker 6  1:35:44
mentioned something about calcium channel that those melanoma, they are activated with calcium have any trial has been done with cancer channel blockers like nefe de bean or Verapamil or anything like that, that blocks the calcium channel may help with those I

Speaker 1  1:36:01
spoke about cancer metabolism, because, like I said to Dr Nario, for the calcium addiction, they don't know the exact mechanism. They just show the results and the cluster of genes that have been deregulated behind this phenomenon. So we don't know if it's a they don't know, or it has not been shown, if it's calcium channel, to my knowledge, or at least the clinical trials that I've seen. This is a compilation I did, the tables I showed you until July, 2024 I think, I think not, if I remember well,

Speaker 6  1:36:43
well, there is some publication using NIFA DB and Embera meal as a calcium channel blocker, potential treatment for UV am ilanoma. So it seems like there's some active or target for blocking those calcium channels. And there are many types of calcium channels, but there's a potential for the L type Council

Speaker 1  1:37:05
completed with results, because the clinical trials I showed you are phase 123, intervention completed with results.

Speaker 6  1:37:13
Now this, this is a potential. They are just this for you to try and see. That's why we are bringing this, because those are things that anything that's FDA approved, it's easy to repurpose it and and easy to be applied on the patients. That's why we want those researchers to consider all those generics that's already FDA approved so we can translate it clinically fast and applied, versus if you create something out of the blue, a molecule, it will take another 100 years for for this drug to be to be used by clinical so I think those researchers, you know, it will be great if they start thinking, you know, more practical and and see If they can repurpose drugs that's already FDA approved.

Speaker 1  1:38:04
This is one, this is one of the axes that, even for my research, or other people that they have done research, we're trying to do. It's just that we have to bring you guys results, and we have to deliver results that they have specific mechanisms behind that they don't affect. For example, this is a good question that they asked me during my my PhD defense that, what about the effect on the healthy cells? So I can have a wonderful effect on the metastatic given melanoma tumor, and then have a number of side effects, severe or not. So this is something that we're also trying to, of course, that

Speaker 6  1:38:45
we can that there's some way to overcome that. That's what I'm trying to introduce here to the clinical word nanotechnology, and loading drugs inside psychodex nano particle. When you do that, then you get those drugs moving to the cancer tissue versus healthy tissue. So I want you also in your work, and hopefully that we can collaborate in a bigger scale with our team of doctors here with integrative oncology to see if you can apply nanotechnology and possibly to minimize the side effects of those drugs who has potential effect on the healthy tissue.

Speaker 1  1:39:25
It could be, of course, it could be a potential, anything that can be beneficial for the patient and shows result. Of course, yeah.

Speaker 6  1:39:39
Okay, I did add you any LinkedIn. I wish if you can add me, and then we can communicate, and possibly, whether on Tuesday or Monday, whatever the doctor is available, we can accommodate from our side here, of course, remember Dr

Bill Clearfield  1:39:55
halasa there in Europe, it's the middle of the night. We need to let this lady, young lady, go to sleep. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:00
No, I have all time. No problem.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:03
There is, there is a a in the chat here from Dr 48 Benson, to let you know that there's a vitamin D link with uve uveal melanoma. There's a study vitamin D receptor hydroxylases, Cy, B, D, 27, b1, and CYP, two, A, one and retinoid related orphan receptors.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:32
That's interesting. He didn't give me a

Speaker 1  1:40:35
good I come here and I learn extra articles that usually, as in the lab, we don't pay too much attention, so it's also helpful.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:44
Well, you know, you're actually doing stuff. We just kind of

Unknown Speaker  1:40:53
pretend from you.

Speaker 1  1:40:55
Yes, we learned from you. I'm not, I'm not one of these, and there are many researchers we're we don't think this each each field does its own, its own thing, and we all work for a cause which is very important. We do our work. We do what we do. You do what you do, and in combination, we can help patients. That's the most important.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:19
Okay, there you go. Okay. Any other questions? Sector Nario, oh

Speaker 5  1:41:27
yeah. Everybody's just thanking you for staying up late for us. And we learned something here in our webinar. We have to probably practice pronouncing names like yours, so we don't know about your names anymore, so that's our assignment. Doctor Bill, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:41:44
but thank you again. Thank you. Did the best. I did the best I could. I actually practiced a little bit so, and that's what came out

Speaker 5  1:41:53
that's already been practiced. See, you have to work on it.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:57
Yeah? So, so anybody else have any comments or questions? I actually have a little bit of a story about that. The my son, those of you don't know, is married to a an Asian woman, and we went to the wedding in it was in North China, northeast China, and her grandmother was being a little bit ornery, and she didn't speak English. In fact, the grandmother was Korean, and she was sitting at the table just about, kind of ignoring us and playing card, turning over playing cards, or they had pictures on them, and she would turn the cards over and start and say what it was in Korea, Korean. And I was standing there watching her, because, you know, you know, you all know who I you know who I am. I have to be everybody's buddy. And she started, she's pointed to it and said, said it, what it was in Korean. And she turned over a card that was a flower. So she said what it was in Korean. And I tried to say it. I tried to say what she said. And you remember, this is a very stoic, serious she must have been in her 80s, and she nearly hit the floor laughing. And we carried this on for for about two and a half hours. And I was told that nobody talks to grandma like that. You know, Grandma ignores everybody. And then I had her speaking, trying to speak English, and it sounded as her English sounded as ridiculous as my Korean did. I'm sure of it. So I did try. I did try to practice your name. I got that. I think I got the first name print down pretty well. And we really want to thank you for being staying up late for this presentation. Like I said, this is a little bit different than what we're used to, but it was really fascinating, really, really interesting. And I'm glad Dr Halas and Dr Joseph were around, you know, sort of to bring us a real life case with it, also, so, so, and of course, then the question is, okay, when's your stuff going to be out? So we can use it?

Speaker 1  1:44:10
I know, I know we want to have that. We have the same goal. We want to do the same.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:14
We'll give you, we'll give you to March 1. Okay, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:44:18
I have a month,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:22
any summary, last, last thoughts, anything like that.

Speaker 6  1:44:28
We have now an excuse to travel to France to meet with those doctors, right? Yeah, yeah, you

Speaker 1  1:44:32
can always come to nice well, I'm in Paris, where it's north and cold, but

Unknown Speaker  1:44:36
if you travel a

Speaker 6  1:44:38
lot, I travel a lot to Europe, especially Germany. So at least now I have a reason to go to France. You should

Speaker 1  1:44:45
go, Yeah, you should definitely, and you should definitely visit the laboratory that I did my PhD in and meet the team leaders, Dr COVID, Roberti. I will write you all these names, and the medical doctor that he's also treating the patients of UV melanoma and Dr Thomas trim that he was also a colleague researcher helping me. They're all brilliant people dedicated to fight melanomas. Actually, the laboratory name is from skin pigmentation to melanoma pathologies. And yeah, they're very helpful. So yeah, come for the sun. Yeah,

Speaker 6  1:45:28
come and see. Come up with some collaboration in terms of clinics and in United States and in France, looking for also funding investor, you know, all these things we can talk about. It possibly me and Dr Joseph will travel to Europe and and and meet with your people and see if there's anything that we can collaborate, any platform of collaboration that we can do, whether even education conference, CME, things like that. There's many, many levels of collaborations that we can talk about.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:02
That sounds great. Can't say that. I bet you can't say the name of the clinic. In French, we want to hear the

Speaker 6  1:46:12
name of the clinic. What's the name of the clinic? The name of your center? Oh,

Speaker 1  1:46:19
wait, because I need to remember it also. It's like a huge name that I never pronounce. Okay? Sound from Mediterranean, the medicine, molecular,

Bill Clearfield  1:46:30
wow, yeah, okay. We now know she's way smarter than

Unknown Speaker  1:46:38
any of us. That's Oh no, no, no,

Speaker 6  1:46:42
can you, can you pronounce that? Can you spell that? Can you pronounce spill that? Dr, William, no,

Speaker 1  1:46:52
I love it. Nancy, he's he, he was, he did a training in hospital. NEC, I have no idea where it is. Is it in Paris or Peter nicker, how do you have such a large percentage of French speaking people there a party? Yes. Hospital, okay. I'm sorry, we have

Speaker 6  1:47:17
Dr Benoit. Benoit is a French speaker. Dr Ben, yeah. Dr Cano, so we can have translation for us. When we started,

Bill Clearfield  1:47:27
the two of them were talking in French, you know, behind our back. I felt like my, my, my other thing is that my, my children, when my when I was young, when I was a young boy, my parents and my grandparents would would speak in either Russian or Yiddish when they didn't know, want us to know what they were saying. And, you know, then I grew up, and then now my children do that. Then they my my son and his and his wife speak in Korean or or Mandarin, and then my daughter and her husband, they're, they, they, they're fluent in Swahili, as were my four grandchildren. Okay, oldest one, age nine. So when they don't want me to know what they're talking about, that they go at it.

Speaker 1  1:48:12
Now, in the beginning was just get, just to have a form, get to know each other,

Speaker 6  1:48:19
but, but you don't have a heavy English accent, like, you know, French, or the French where they speak English, they they have the the unique accent there. You don't have that. That's a good thing about you. I'm

Speaker 1  1:48:31
not French. That's a very but my mom told me, because she's an English teacher and a poet, she told me that through the like, throughout the years, I developed, in some words, a little bit, a little bit of a French twist. But

Speaker 6  1:48:48
there's no like, Oh my God, not dark. It's not that deep French. So I don't see that you're originally from France. That's I can see. So where are you from? Originally? I'm from Greece. Oh, from Greece. So an RGC CEO from Greece too. Possibly, that's a good collaboration. Possibly, this will help to sponsor your lab. I will get you some something about that. You know, I think most of those academies, they're looking for companies to sponsor them. And I will see and talk to RGC.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:17
I will get you her contact Doctor hilas,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:20
don't Yeah, that's what I'm trying to do.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:23
Okay, alright, well, I Doctor, Doctor Angelica has been absolutely fabulous, and you are hands on the smartest person we've ever

Speaker 1  1:49:39
I'm just in a different field. Thank you very much for having me, and it was a pleasure to discuss, and it's actually very insightful also for us to be outside of research community and speak with medical doctors, because indeed, you ask different things and you search for different things that we have to sometimes you have to remind us, because it's more of the of the side of the clinic. So, so

Benoit Tano  1:50:06
one last question, what is your next steps?

Speaker 1  1:50:11
I don't know. Currently, I'm looking for a job in Paris. We will see if I will have I'm open to an opportunity, maybe for a postdoc or in a private company in an R and D, because, like I said to the last slides of entrepreneurship, but this falls under the general category of developing therapies. It's a it's an expensive hobby. Let's say that is a hobby. It's an expensive hobby, so you you need to be in a professional family that you have money, and so either big companies or startups or we will see

Unknown Speaker  1:50:54
great. Okay, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:56
We will keep you informed. Dr channel, so yeah, thank you. We'll let you know when, when, when, when, when the big breakthrough comes. Right? She's the Nobel Prize winner of 2020, No,

Benoit Tano  1:51:13
exactly. Need to put your citation for competition. Maybe you win something you know. You never know we're

Bill Clearfield  1:51:19
putting you up for the Nobel Prize next year, by the way. Okay, because, because you were the smartest one on here now, but now I think she's surpassed you a little bit.

Benoit Tano  1:51:33
Yeah, she's the one. I mean, I'm just at the bottom here.

Unknown Speaker  1:51:38
Okay, all right. Thank you for for the conversation.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:40
Thank you for what a great presentation next week. By the way, we have Allison Beardsley on Beasley on Doctor. Allison Beasley, and she is does everything with light therapy, particularly ultraviolet red and an ultraviolet blue. So we're going to learn about light therapy next week. Okay, nice. So that's that. There's one last comment. Please look at a, m, p, k, s, i, k2, and vitamin D,

Unknown Speaker  1:52:09
relation, relationship. Okay, so

Bill Clearfield  1:52:11
we're going to have to report back to to us. So we always like we always say, if we don't like you, we don't, we don't ask, we don't bother you anymore. So those of us please

Speaker 1  1:52:22
now, these are very helpful and tips and publications that maybe I did not see that that doesn't mean that I know everything, and I've seen everything.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:32
We'll give you another couple of weeks, then you'll know everything, right? Anybody else have any comments? Questions again? Thank you so much. We really appreciate this. We really appreciate you being up in the middle of the night for us, and we really can't thank you enough. I'll have the recorded video for you when it's ready. I'll send it to you. We also, if you want, we can send you the contact list of everybody that was on here, and it's something that we do, two ama CME credits. It's in the chat. It's on the email. It'll be added to the email that we do every week. They're all there. There's this will be, this will be CME credit, our number. This is number 25 it's their $30 for two credits. So it for, that's what's that $650 you can get. You get 50 credits, which is way better than any you know conference that you'll get. So if you need CME credits that go there. And I sent out, I sent out a separate email over the weekend, also with just the links for the videos that we have accredited so so and we marshal on. We're going to, we're going to start getting together with Dr Fong to see if we can, we can get a live conference this summer in Vegas. I know it's hot and kind of miserable that time of year, but it's a tradition for them, and it would be easy for us to hook on and have sort of a somewhat ready made audience. So I'm going to, I'm going to, we're going to start, you know, that process. Anybody that wants to present anything or be part of it. Please let me know. And Dr halasa, you know, has access to AMA CME credits. And in the the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association has the do credit credits. So we got both covered. And one last thing, Doctor Nario, what's, what's new in the in the alternative medicine world that that you're studying now that you've been there a month,

Speaker 5  1:54:47
well, it's all about, I guess, debulking what I know they're they're saying that our our allopathic ways of talking to our patients are not going to be the trend of the newer generation of integrative medicine practitioners. So I'm learning a lot about motivational interviewing. So it's all about being more of an assisting guide to your patient, rather than directing them towards what you want them to do. It's all about this, these techniques, they're refining our skills and trying to break us down

Bill Clearfield  1:55:24
so, so what you're telling me is that I graduated from medical school in 1978 I had four years of internship, resident, residencies, a couple of years of fellowship, almost 45 years of clinical practice, Doing histories and physicals, and you're telling me, I've, I've done it all wrong all that time. Is that, is that, is that the, is that the take home message, they're telling

Speaker 5  1:55:47
me, I'm doing it all wrong. I don't that's going to be applying to you, cuz they're breaking me down from inside out and just saying, hey, you need to tweak this and do this, do that. Hey, I'm pretty open.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:59
I know you know, you've been in my you've been in my office for, you know, admit, for many, many sessions. And I've been told, I've told you, you've been doing it wrong.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:12
Just had to go, you

Bill Clearfield  1:56:13
had to go to, you know, the university

Unknown Speaker  1:56:17
to tell me that,

Bill Clearfield  1:56:19
to go to university to tell you, Okay, dr, dr evangelic has email. Is there her LinkedIn is also there in the chat, and there's an arvoir from her. Thank you so much. Really, we really appreciate it. I don't know what else I you know, I'm overwhelmed with

Speaker 1  1:56:38
thank you for inviting me, and anyone feel free to contact me whenever you want. Anybody

Bill Clearfield  1:56:44
have any any comments or questions, anything, anything out there in the in the real world, we need to know about anybody going to any conferences, anybody presenting at any conferences, and that that we need to know about any new tips or tricks that we think the group should know about, going once, going twice. Okay, Evangelica, thank again. Thank you so much. Go get some sleep. I will Okay.

Speaker 1  1:57:21
Afternoon, evening. I don't know everyone, and thank you very much.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:26
Yeah, it's, it's almost 7pm here. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:57:29
have a nice evening. And, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:34
okay, okay. And again, like, good night. Like I said, next week, Doctor Allison Beardsley, we're going to be learning about ultra light therapy. I know a lot of a lot of you you know know quite a bit about it, but some of us you know are like I I'm dating myself, learned nothing about it. So what I hope, hope that'll be somewhat interesting. Do you have anybody that would you know would like to present, or if you would like to present, please let me know. We're booking out into the April and May already. So you have any topics that you want, let me know, and we will, we'll see if we can put them together. Okay, okay, any last word? Doctor Nari,

Speaker 5  1:58:25
no, keep on going. This is, this is good stuff that we have. We we're getting international coverage now, if you notice. So we're getting our arms all stretched out, and hopefully we're going to get some more of those.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:36
Speaking of which, on Friday, I am, I signed up for a integrative medicine conference in online in London, and so we've introduced ourselves to them, you know, in our group. So I think we're going to be able to find some new members in the in the UK. So Good So, so keep on spreading the good word, and we'll, we'll keep fighting on this end. Okay, so Good night. Everybody. Have a great night. Uh, any last words, Doctor Quinn on the and anything left else we need to know about the, what the research people are up to? Uh,

Speaker 3  1:59:20
no, not really. I think we covered it ahead of time. If people want to participate or listen or hear what we're doing there, they're more than welcome. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:59:30
all right, if you could forward, can I put the link that you do on Saturday morning on the web, on the email, or is that

Speaker 3  1:59:38
it's Doctor tannos link? Okay, I don't know if he's still on

Benoit Tano  1:59:45
his name. I didn't hear the question the link for Saturday. Oh yeah, you want me to send it to you or send it to

Bill Clearfield  1:59:55
send it to me when you get a chance? Dr tanne, I

Benoit Tano  1:59:58
would do that. I would send it to you. So if you want to invite other people, you can, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:04
alright, you know, as long as it's okay with you guys,

Benoit Tano  2:00:08
yeah, Doctor Nario, we try to invite you several times, but it looks like your email we have is not working.

Speaker 5  2:00:14
I'll send you guys my email. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  2:00:18
I thought he didn't like us. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:21
but he's too polite to say,

Speaker 5  2:00:25
well, I work on Saturdays. That's why I kind of just chime in and listen to you guys in between patients, right? But I'm a big fan you guys are moving mountains, and I'm also a member of the tribal healers, so I am a big cheerleader, so I'm ready part of that group.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:44
Excellent. See, I'm

Speaker 5  2:00:47
not showing up, but I'm signing behind the scenes.

Speaker 3  2:00:50
Okay, that counts. What group Are you part of? The

Speaker 5  2:00:54
tribal healing turtle? Remember? Dr, Dan, Oh,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:58
yeah. Oh, you signed up. Yeah,

Speaker 3  2:01:02
yeah, yeah. Dr Dimitri did as well. He's, he's very proud and very happy. He wanted to make sure he got in before we came up with some strict guidelines, I think.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:14
So, you know, you know rules that would, that would leave us out. In other words,

Speaker 5  2:01:21
flash sale for Black Friday. You have to hurry up before the sale. First come first serve. Yeah, you

Bill Clearfield  2:01:29
know, it's like you don't want, you don't want to be part of any group that would have us as members.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:37
That's hilarious.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:39
All right, everybody. Have a great night. And, you know, I'll get everything that we we do together, and we'll see you again next week. Okay, and thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:52
Thank you.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai