Speaker 1  00:23
Okay, can you hear me

Bill Clearfield  00:25
fine?

Speaker 1  00:26
Okay, likewise.

Bill Clearfield  00:31
How did I go

Speaker 1  00:32
good yourself?

Bill Clearfield  00:37
Yeah, okay, a little slow here, but I okay, participants, we're just, you know, Dr. Tano, I myself are going to have to leave about seven if we're still going on by then. Dr. Mario said he would close out,

Benoit Tano  00:56
okay? We hopefully will last too long, so

Bill Clearfield  01:02
looking sharp today.

Benoit Tano  01:04
Oh, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  01:05
All right, okay. You're looking good today, so

Benoit Tano  01:08
thank you.

Speaker 1  01:10
Looking like a preacher,

Benoit Tano  01:12
a preacher,

Speaker 2  01:13
that's right.

Benoit Tano  01:14
Yeah, I decided to wear white today.

Bill Clearfield  01:17
There you go, that got the background, that's what I, that we usually see on it, right?

Benoit Tano  01:23
Yeah, my

Speaker 3  01:25
brain,

Benoit Tano  01:26
not brain, the key, yeah,

Speaker 1  01:28
the key got to have the key to the brain.

Bill Clearfield  01:32
Okay, all right. Start an area,

Speaker 1  01:38
Dutch K, I you want to make me co-host?

Bill Clearfield  01:53
Didn't I already do that?

Speaker 1  01:55
No, you made Burgess co-host.

Bill Clearfield  01:57
Oh, all right. Thank you. All right, there you go.

Speaker 1  02:01
Kind of thoughts, though.

Benoit Tano  02:03
Yeah,

Speaker 1  02:04
nice.

Bill Clearfield  02:08
Dr. Nario looks like he got a haircut too.

Speaker 4  02:14
Hey, it's a haircut season. Mowing lawns here

Bill Clearfield  02:20
got his hair done, he's looking good, right? I'm

Speaker 4  02:26
going to go into Maryland for a wedding, so

Bill Clearfield  02:28
okay,

Speaker 4  02:30
not my wedding, I have to make sure I underline that.

Bill Clearfield  02:38
Yeah, are you, are you in the wedding party, though.

Speaker 4  02:42
Well, I have a participation, I guess. I'm not like the entourage.

Bill Clearfield  02:48
Yeah. Okay. Where in Maryland? Are you going to go?

Speaker 4  02:53
I think it's near Baltimore. Are you familiar?

Bill Clearfield  02:58
Well, I know Baltimore. Yeah, everything's

Speaker 4  03:01
Baltimore from Pennsylvania, that's that's why

Bill Clearfield  03:06
Baltimore is not Maryland, is not all that big, you know.

Speaker 1  03:10
No,

Speaker 4  03:11
that's a good question. I have to now, you're making me curious, but you know it's the whole day that you fly over there, and that's your hope, that's your day right there.

Bill Clearfield  03:21
Well, you know, I've been going to Miami a lot, and so I've been doing the overnight. I've been leaving. If you leave at 11 here, it'll get you to Atlanta, like at four in the morning here, but it's 7am there, and then you go to wherever. So I get Miami, I get to Miami 9am So I flew all night, so I haven't wasted the day, and it's cheaper, actually. That's the, that's the least expensive flight, too. You

Speaker 4  03:46
can sleep in the plane, you're pretty good with those type of things.

Bill Clearfield  03:49
Yeah, yeah, usually, you know. So that's what I've been doing. I've been doing, doing the red eyes, and they get there in the morning, and then you haven't wasted the whole day,

Speaker 4  04:02
but they pay for your fight, right?

Bill Clearfield  04:05
Yeah, they did. Yeah,

Speaker 4  04:08
why not get first class, like get the most bougie ones?

Bill Clearfield  04:11
Who says I don't?

Speaker 4  04:13
Oh, because a forum, you can't. You just

Bill Clearfield  04:19
know, no. Well, no. What they. I mean, I paid a difference.

Speaker 4  04:22
Ah, okay.

Bill Clearfield  04:24
I always have a million frequent flyer miles, because we buy all of our supplies in the office from the, you know, with on a credit card. So,

Speaker 4  04:31
right, right,

Bill Clearfield  04:33
so yeah. But I mean, I'm going to go see my kids, and you know, in Detroit at the end of the month, and no, so nobody's paying for that, but me,

Speaker 4  04:43
Detroit. I thought that's in Michigan, right?

Bill Clearfield  04:45
It's in Michigan.

Speaker 4  04:47
Yeah, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:49
yeah.

Speaker 4  04:49
Because I didn't realize, maybe I should do that. They do pay for airfares in for AFRM, but I'm not upgrading

Bill Clearfield  04:59
it. They never paid for me when I, that was back then, but you're a bureau mocker, you're a big shot. I never, I never had more than one of the, like, the Sunday afternoon, you know, things when they just filled in.

Speaker 4  05:15
I'm their runner, the rookie guy, the intern,

Bill Clearfield  05:22
yeah. so I, well, actually I haven't gotten paid yet for my FF. Think of it,

Speaker 4  05:29
oh, they pay for it for that.

Bill Clearfield  05:31
They said they pay for airfare and they pay me for the lecture, yeah, and they paid for two nights in the hotel.

Speaker 4  05:38
I thought it's for the love

Bill Clearfield  05:40
that what? No, I don't have any. I don't have that anymore. They did that originally a long time ago, but the love is gone, right? Dr. James, I see you're shaking your head.

Speaker 5  05:53
I am. I am shaking my head, but yeah, it's all good. It's all for the common good,

Bill Clearfield  05:59
all for the common good, right? Yeah, so they're they're charging $1,200 ahead, and yeah, you know, can I tell you it

Speaker 4  06:14
is what it is, right? It is what it is.

Bill Clearfield  06:15
The only one that I, that I go to now is, I still help Bruce out with, with Noma one, because I like, I helped Bruce out too. That's where I practice my lectures for the, for the, for wherever I'm going. So I'm doing eight hours at AMMG in October. I'm doing a whole day on instead of

Speaker 4  06:39
workshop,

Bill Clearfield  06:40
yeah, functional laboratories.

Speaker 4  06:44
Oh, okay. Well, that's was just that was just a one hour lecture that you had before one, and then

Bill Clearfield  06:49
I did a second one. I did part two, and then I said, well, you know what, you know, let's do part three. And then I said to him, why don't I just give you.. I gave him a half day, and then I give him a whole day. I said, because you know, you break it up that way, it's so, so, when I do it, do normal, if I don't get screamed and hollered at by the, by the real doctors, then I haven't, yeah, you know, so I did, I did the serum test that I've done, done here for you guys, and they were hollering about, you know, what you're doing is shotgunning test, what is this? I said, what's a lecture on how to interpret laboratories. That's what it's, that's what it is. We are just shotgunning tests. They didn't like the thyroid antibodies.

Speaker 4  07:30
Who does? You're pissing off endocrinologists.

Bill Clearfield  07:35
Oh yeah, well, there's that. They're there. They're them too. So, yeah, so we, that's

Speaker 4  07:43
fine,

Benoit Tano  07:45
what the disconnect is with the endocrinologist, why they don't do well in their fellowship.

Bill Clearfield  07:53
I have three students that are in endocrinology residencies now, and all three of them tell me they're tearing their hair out, yeah,

Benoit Tano  08:00
because it's scary that these people, people have hash motors. They say, well, wait until your thyroid dies, then we can give you something. Nobody's treating the antibodies or dealing with

Bill Clearfield  08:13
it. Well, I told you that, you know, they had a, the endocrinologist here, Northern Nevada Endocrinology, had a conference here a month ago, and I was at, and I told you what I told you all, what they said, right? Joel was there too, right? Right, they said in the first three minutes, the speaker, we was talking about thyroid, by the way, weighed 400 pounds, and at one point said diet doesn't matter about anything, and I literally weighed 400 pounds, I'm not exaggerating, said only only internet idiots order reverse T threes. No real endocrinologist would order that. Nobody in North America needs iodine for any reason, and he came from the Detroit area, which is, you know, known as a goiter belt, because there's, you know, the areas that's one of the lowest iodine soil populations in the world is in that area.

Benoit Tano  09:12
Talk to Bernstein, what's his name? Bernstein iodine, this

Bill Clearfield  09:19
guy, this guy said the iodine is, you don't need that for anything. Iodine causes everything, so right, Joe. What else was there? It starts to fade here, the armor. Oh yeah, t3 never use t3 for anything, any reason, at any time. Yeah,

Speaker 1  09:42
and no need for the bioidentical,

Bill Clearfield  09:49
yeah, that too. Okay, it's a little after five tonight. We have Dr. Tano with Dr. Nario, you're up first,

Speaker 4  10:01
all right. Sounds good. So, for leak of the week today, so our patients are often thinking that they need growth hormone itself or a prescription of secret agogs. You're always going to hear about the peptides, sesamoral and premoral, and right, CJC will be what many don't realize is that several inexpensive, widely available supplements can support the growth hormone access naturally, and may enhance the effectiveness of

Speaker 3  10:32
the

Speaker 4  10:33
patients as the quarterback. These foundational nutrients are the offensive line, so they may not not get that attention like what the growth hormone gets, but this is definitely they're often what makes the whole system work. The most studied amino acids. So, let me give you the first example. Here is arginine. The other one is lysine, or anything glycine, and even glutamine are there, but arginine is likely the strongest growth hormone secretog of the group. Mechanistically, it suppresses somatostatin, it's actually somatostatin is removing one of their primary breaks on growth hormone release, so this mechanism was demonstrated in the classic study of Aber Roth et al, 1988 where arginine significantly increased growth hormone secretion and amplified the response to GHRH, and most recently, a 2022 systemic review and meta-analysis by Goli confirmed that arginine stimulates growth hormone release primarily through somatostatin, somatostatin suppression. So several studies demonstrates acute growth hormone elevations approximately two to four fold above baseline, particularly in fasting conditions, and clinically, these amino acids complement GHRH, GHRP analogs by enhancing endogenous pulsatility without competing with peptide signaling. So, dosing for arginine, so the strongest one out of all the amino acids is arginine, so five to 10 grams, and then you take it pre-bed or pre-workout on an empty stomach. However, it's important to note that Corpus et al found that short-term oral arginine and lysine supplementation did not significantly increase long-term growth hormone or IGF one levels in older men. So, the evidence is probably the strongest for acute growth hormone stimulation rather than sustained anabolic effects, and one additional consideration in art is arginase activity. Arginase competes with ENOS for arginine, so potentially limiting nitric oxide production and diminishing some physiological benefits. Second one is melatonin, so maybe one of the most underrated growth hormone supportive interventions. It suppresses somatostatin, also enhances slope, slow weave sleep, slow wave sleep, and directly augments growth hormone secretion. So, in the landmark study of El Cavi, 1993 oral melatonin significantly increased spontaneous growth hormone secretion and approximately doubled the growth hormone response to GHRH stimulation. Later, Nasser 2020 20 22,007 demonstrated that both 0.5 and five milligram melatonin increased growth hormone levels surrounding resistance exercise. Interesting, the highest dose produced the greatest effect, contributing to commonly quoted 150% increase in growth hormone response. So that's 150% that value heard that right. For patients using bedtime testimonial, or even uppermolin, melatonin may be highly synergistic because it supports the body's largest physiological growth hormone pulse during the slow wave sleep. So, typical dosing, again point five to five milligrams, again 30 to 60 minutes before bedtime, sometimes the most sophisticated anti-aging intervention isn't another peptide, it's just getting our patients to sleep before midnight. And lastly, GABA, so it represents again another intriguing adjunct. So, the best known study comes from Powers at Al 2008 An investigator investigations administered three grams, three grams of oral GABA, and observed 400% increase in resting growth hormone levels, and approximately 200% greater growth hormone response following resistance exercise. Mechanistically, GABA appears to enhance somatotrophic activity through pathways involving TIT one transcription. So, clinically, I think I find GABA most useful in patients with insomnia, anxiety, even elevated cortisols, chronic stress, typical dosing again, 250 to 750 milligrams at bedtime. So GABA pairs particularly well with melatonin, because both improve sleep architecture while supporting growth hormone release through complementary pathways. So take home message here. Peptides are pressing the accelerator for the growth hormone access. Amino acids, melatonin and GABA may help remove some of the breaks. So, the literature, as you've heard now, clearly supports acute growth hormone enhancement, particularly with arginine, melatonin, and GABA. So, whether those hormonal changes translate into meaningful long-term improvements, and body composition strength and longevity remains less certain. So, but at low cost, generally safe adjuncts, you don't have to buy these expensive peptides and the actual growth hormone, so they can be useful additions to a comprehensive growth hormone optimization strategy. So that's your week of the

Bill Clearfield  15:21
week. Okay. Thank you so much. How far along are you in your studies? Are there

Speaker 4  15:29
so still almost a year up? I crossed the halfway mark.

Bill Clearfield  15:34
Okay, has it been worth

Speaker 4  15:37
it? Yeah, when we get the man with the beard, it's all going to be worth

Bill Clearfield  15:42
it? You're going to get a beard, is that what happens? No, that's the graduation.

Speaker 4  15:47
My boss, once I drag Andrew, well in here, it's all going to be worth it.

Bill Clearfield  15:54
All right, it will be okay. So, tonight we have Dr. Tano speaking with us, and I'm not really sure I need to introduce him. You know, he's pretty much our superstar here, dual board certified in internal medicine and allergy and immunology. He has extensive clinical experience spanning over two decades treating a diverse patient population of adults and children suffering from nasal allergies, food allergies, eczema, asthma, hives, angioedema, and other related conditions. You know, he's he's an esteemed medical professional with a comprehensive background in both medicine and economics. He has a Doctor of Medicine from the Medical College of Ohio and holds a PhD in economics from the State University of New York at Albany, he's completed fellowships in allergy and immunology at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, and he's had numerous professional prestigious appointments across the United States, including being with us, which is the most prestigious, right, right, right, he's offered it, says several published books. I mean, it's got to be more than 20 or 25 by now, correct?

Benoit Tano  17:08
Right.

Bill Clearfield  17:09
So, including bestsellers, The Layman's Guide to Integrative Immunity. His research has been featured on many peer-reviewed journals. He's my go-to for pretty much anything medical, and, and also our topic tonight, which is AI, because he's got an incredible AI program that is that he's going to tell us about, and so without further ado, thank you for being with us, Doctor Tano, again, as always.

Benoit Tano  17:38
Thank you, Doctor Bill, for having me today, and thank you all for coming. I think we have brushed up a little bit on the AI thing on in the previous meeting that we had last time, and today we're going to continue. So, my thinking is, how many of you know I'm going to actually put my slides up first before I start asking questions,

Speaker 6  18:08
so

Benoit Tano  18:17
all right, so I'm going to do this one here, so how many of you know when computers started in medicine?

Speaker 1  18:31
I think AI started in 56 correct?

Benoit Tano  18:35
Probably not. So, when.. when did the computer actually computer programs and all of us studied in medicine, specifically medicine.

Speaker 7  18:45
When we were in residency,

Benoit Tano  18:48
oh, that's a, that's a good one. So, when was that? When you said one, when

Speaker 7  18:53
at that time we start using the AMR, I was in my second year or third year, so that was in 2010 or 11.

Benoit Tano  19:00
2010 that's too late, computers,

Speaker 7  19:03
but the EMR first was introduced in hospital in 2011 I think. The Meditech,

Benoit Tano  19:11
yeah. So actually, Who, how many of you remember the Y2K problem that people were bringing in back in 2000

Bill Clearfield  19:23
yeah,

Benoit Tano  19:24
we all should remember, so the yk around 22,019 99 2000 that's when they started doing the computer introduction into electronic medical records and all of that, so

Speaker 8  19:42
what I may have been better than that when I was in my residency in Chicago, 1996 97

Benoit Tano  19:53
right?

Speaker 8  19:54
You're using computer programs to kind of give you differential diagnoses and things like that. It wasn't an EMR yet. We didn't have the internet quite, but we were using computers to just plug in information and get like differential diagnosis, things like that. But that's the earliest I remember.

Benoit Tano  20:13
That's correct. Actually, it was some, some hospitals started earlier, and others about 2000 We all heard heard, because I was in residency at Ohio State, and we all heard the computers are coming. We're going to use computers to enter order entries, and all of that. We're all panicking. What are we going to do now? Computer order entry will have no idea what it meant, and what it was, but it came in, and people were frustrated, like actually nobody wanted to hear about it. It was like so complicated to implement, but that was the beginning, and one yk thing came in. Everybody was panicking, maybe all the internet is going to burn out. We don't know how, et cetera. So, actually, I was on call the New Year's Eve of 1999 to 2000 I was in my second year of residency at Ohio State, and we were also scared. What is going to happen now? We're waiting for the computer to go out or something to blow up, but nothing happened, and so we went our way, and forward going forward, as you all know, things progress. Then internet came in, so people who want to know more about this, you can peruse this one here. I'm not going to go in detail, things actually for computer introduction, starting the 40s. That's when we all think that AI is new, but AI started long time ago. They have been thinking about this, so every time we see today was thought of long, long time ago. But people were trying to do it, and it was not completely done yet, so progressively they're trying to make it better and better, and when it becomes really good, then they put it with public for republic to use. There's something I wanted to see, show you guys, the be a MYCIN, the MYCIN is like one program that was introduced to try to detect infectious diseases, so this is actually useful. I'm going to try to implement that in my program, because I think it would be very nice to know if a patient presents with symptoms, you can put in the symptoms, and then it will tell you what type of infection it is, and what antibiotic you should use for that infection. I think that would be nice. And that was introduced back in 1970s That's one of the first AI computers used, but people had to program it, so then they can use it in their, in their clinics, but then it died out, and so now we have all these things that we're using and doing. So today, what I would do, I would like you all, because we're going to do AI application in your offices, I would like you all to log into betapromed.com If you can do that, you can get a free access. Those of you who have computers, and you have even your cell phone, if you want to log in, maybe you can, and we can see if we can do some cases.

Speaker 9  23:41
Could you spell that, the name

Benoit Tano  23:43
Benoit? So it's that I'm going to put in the chat, just a Taya Pro.

Speaker 9  23:50
Thank you,

Benoit Tano  23:52
Taya Pro med.com And then I'll go into it and So a bit kind of hands on, how many of you see my screen?

Bill Clearfield  24:34
We got it.

Benoit Tano  24:35
You have a tire permit. Okay, good.

Speaker 4  24:39
No, we're not saying it's higher,

Benoit Tano  24:41
you don't see the top permit. Okay, so let me just do that.

Bill Clearfield  24:45
Says mid 90s, internet enters everyday life, that's what we see. There's

Benoit Tano  24:51
it now.

Bill Clearfield  24:52
Yeah,

Benoit Tano  24:53
yeah, okay, good. So if you like, you said that start free trial, so all of you can log in there by starting free trial, so Perfect, so I am logged in myself.

Speaker 4  25:36
How long has the trial, Doctor?

Benoit Tano  25:38
Seven days.

Speaker 4  25:41
Okay,

Benoit Tano  25:43
14 days you can if you want to, but seven days is what we put in, and it's easy to go through a lot of information in here when you get on the landing page. I had put some webinar videos in here, where you can see video studio, etc. They give you down here, see that permit in action. Two hour tutorial. We also have even four hour tutorial to go slowly and learn what this whole thing does, but we're not going to cover all the things that we have in here, because we're going to stay here 200 hours. We're not going to go through all of it, but we're going to use it to do certain things, few things like case studies, or figure out some diagnosis that we can put in, so I would like your participation for sure, and we can do that. So, once you get in, you go to clinical. If you hover it, you can see a lot of information in the clinical. This encompasses anything that any practitioner would want to do in their clinics, so we're going to just pick few of them, like if you want to do a soap note, you can, which all of us do, you can go to the soap notes and you can check it out as scribe, so the scribe is the same we have embedded that in the soap node, so when you click on the soap node, you can actually talk to your, your patients, and then it will pick up whatever conversation you're having, and it has organized it into subjective objective review system, objective assessment and plan. So then in each section it will put all the information that needs to be done, and also it puts in the ICD 10 code 1234, whatever, and then it goes to the plan. It does 1234567, whatever, and then it populates that and tells you exactly what is going on with the patient and what your plans are, so you can embed your own plan in what the computer provided. So, if you don't like it, you can always delete it and put your own plan, so that will help you out tremendously. So it shortens how many of you actually using the AI scribes in your practices, so we can put in the chat and we can see what AI scribe are you using, I I used the one I used. I actually, I tried two of them. One of them is freed, not doing publicity for them, but it was really good. It does everything that you need to do, plus it also translate, so if you is Hispanic person is talking, it translate the his Spanish into English hours, you can do multiple languages, so anybody comes, they're speaking Arabic, or whatever. Instead of finding a translator, it does that automatically for you and translate that into English. If you want to do Spanish, it's easy, Portuguese, whatever language that we have out there that are popular, it will do that for you. It will translate that for you. So that's when you

Speaker 4  29:41
do, you need to set the language first, or you can respect them. Yeah,

Benoit Tano  29:47
you said it be said, you said the language first, so you said it like English to, or Spanish to English, or etcetera. So it gives you bad capacity to do that,

Speaker 4  29:59
but you can't just, you just don't know who comes in, and they, yeah, you don't know

Benoit Tano  30:04
who comes in, so you have to do it, set it yourself. When they come in, if they speak in Spanish, it does that. And also, what we have done is to try to make it automatic, meaning if a person starts talking, then he picks it up and know that by speaking Spanish, and then they will translate that in English for you, so that's the beauty about it. Now today, what one of the things that I would like to do is a condition, so if we go to be conditions, you can see in clinical on top it says conditions, so if I put in conditions, we're going to try to put in what condition do you want to know about anybody,

Speaker 9  30:56
CMV colitis,

Benoit Tano  30:59
CMV colitis. Okay, see, that's interesting. CMB colitis, okay. He's

Bill Clearfield  31:07
gonna say polycystic ovaries a little bit more.

Benoit Tano  31:10
So we're gonna do, we're gonna do both. So let's do CMV colitis and see if it gives me anything at all, and we can do PCOS afterwards, I so it's a turning that means some maybe good news will give us some information.

Speaker 9  31:35
This is incredible.

Benoit Tano  31:39
I hope it tells us something, and then we see of those of you who are in it, you can do that, you can do the same thing, you can tap in, and then we give you all the information you need to know. My computer is kind of slow, all right, so give me CMB colitis very clearly. net, net, and you're nsimusendide, my dentelendelendides, d'siveelendelidanians, and ehm, eh, eh, eh, Red Flags, eh, for it, as you'd be, eh, CMF, vyaesya, diagnosis, eh, taydere, ehoruk, camas, vk, ordressed, eh, eh, eris, ayayamaa, meataaamaa, metaaata offers, and it tells you also the functional medicine treatment recommendations. Not only that, it would tell you about the traditional medicine treatment, and this one I think in our Saturday group, Dr. James or somebody, or Dr. Quinn, they said, "Why don't you put in traditional medicine, because traditional medicine is used by multiple people, I mean billions of people around the world, and maybe we should have traditional medicine. So we incorporated the traditional medicine capacity here, which I think is good prevention, social

Speaker 5  33:21
Dr. Tano, question on the platform, I put in the same prompt that you did, and I do not get this comprehensive readout, I get a truncated readout, just one short paragraph,

Benoit Tano  33:38
really. Yeah, yeah, How come mine gives me all the information, and does anybody have the same problem?

Speaker 7  33:50
Yes,

Speaker 5  33:53
yeah, I don't see anything like what you're showing us

Speaker 9  33:58
in might, because we have the intro version, maybe differently, too. Yeah, it could be.

Benoit Tano  34:03
It could be, but maybe you don't have the full scale thing.

Speaker 5  34:07
Okay,

Benoit Tano  34:08
yeah. But that's good to know, though. So, at least, so when you have the full version, it will give you everything that you need. So, CMB. So, I mean, I think it's really good. It gives us all the information that we need to know about CMV colitis from here. Question, so far,

Speaker 4  34:33
Dr. Tano, what's the difference of this to your other AI programs with information that you have here,

Benoit Tano  34:41
you mean what other AI programs

Speaker 4  34:44
like a chat, Grok? Oh yeah,

Benoit Tano  34:47
so this is specific. So if you go to CHP, GPT, or you go to Grok and put in CMV colliders, it's not going to go in details and give you all the functional medicine approach is not going to give you traditional medicine approach, is going to not, it will not give you all of that, it will give you just generality without to go into all the specific that we have here, so ours is more created and tailored to the things that we want to know about, so functional medicine is big for us. So I want everybody to be able to know functional medicine treatment of any condition that they will put in, but the other major modalities will not give you that.

Speaker 9  35:37
Can you integrate your prior patients to this? Like, if you have a patient load, can you then upload them into your system, or how? Yeah,

Benoit Tano  35:43
you can. Oh, yeah, absolutely. Yeah, so when you go to be, if you go to be clinical, and you have a patient, they have a patient kiosk, they have all of that patient, all the patient staff registration, you can put your patients in here, you can upload them with a csv file or something. Other question before we do something else, so I can save this one to the studies, and we can print it out.

Speaker 5  36:22
Yeah, mine finally came up. I guess it was just running a little slow.

Benoit Tano  36:28
Yeah, but it took time. You saw how long my thing was turning and turning until it populated, because it's putting a lot of information and organizing it in a better way,

Speaker 5  36:41
I see a save to my studies button, so when you have an account, so my studies would be like a catch-all for the research that you run,

Benoit Tano  36:57
correct? So it would be for your own studies that you created, and then we save it through that study for you, so if you take all kinds of studies, then it will save it for you in your study, so every time you can come back to it instead of rerun it, you can come back to it and then review it.

Speaker 5  37:16
Okay. All right,

Benoit Tano  37:21
are there questions about this stuff?

Speaker 10  37:24
No. Line eventually came up as well. It did take a minute.

Benoit Tano  37:27
Okay, very good.

Speaker 5  37:29
So I want to say something I see immediately is this 10,000 foot overview on the condition and the different perspectives on it, because quite often, well, I don't know how often, but quite often I'll have a patient who will have a pre-existing condition, they've already been diagnosed, they're under treatment, and then when I really look at what they're doing, nothing about what they've been prescribed actually correlates with their illness,

Benoit Tano  38:03
right? Yes,

Speaker 5  38:04
this would jump out at you right away,

Benoit Tano  38:07
right? Yes, yeah. This one certainly gives you exactly how to approach it. What, what do you need to use, and if you want to go deeper and see similar medication that are in the same class or stuff like that, you can look at it and see how you can approach the patient better.

Speaker 5  38:26
Now, I know it's hypothetical, but what if we're going through this and we see, for example, you know, I'm going to pick on the traditional medicine, and there's something that's glaringly not there or missing is there a way we can put suggestions in or recommendation for something to be added to right here Appt.

Benoit Tano  38:50
Yes, correct. Do you see on the right hand side here, there's a question mark there if you click

Speaker 4  38:58
where

Benoit Tano  39:01
on my, on my screen,

Speaker 5  39:02
or on your screen. Okay,

Benoit Tano  39:05
you see two, one of them is round. Yes, yeah. So be ramping. If you click on it, it should allow you to make suggestions,

Speaker 5  39:15
man. You just really irritate me with your thoroughness.

Benoit Tano  39:20
No, so I want people to suggest to tell me or to tell us what we need to add more or less, or etc. And then we'll go from there.

Speaker 1  39:31
Okay. Good. Got it.

Benoit Tano  39:34
Other question before we move to some other stuff. So today in clinic there's a lady who came in. She said she has, I put her on medication. I don't know if you guys know what they look at, which is Cingular, and the doctor put her on Abilify, but you know, Ceng, you're carries a black box warning saying that it can cause depression, so she's telling me that her medication thinks there's something wrong with the medication, she's having palpitations, she's having all kinds of side effects from all the medication she's on, gabapentin, and all of these other stuff. I said, Well, let's check it out, let's go and put all your medication in to see what they're doing. So I went and did the Polypharmacy right here, so can log in here. Give me one second. So if you want to know how the medications are interacting and I think this portion is going to be really good for what did I do, so if we do Polypharmacy, we would be able to introduce all the medication that we want to know about everything that the patient is on. We can type them in one by one, so I can see someone who comes with diabetes, maybe benotformin. I will get metformin, perhaps they're on blood pressure medication, hydrochlorophyxide, or something like that, hydrochlorophyxide, maybe Beno on lysineopia, because eventually everybody is on three medication to treat their diabetes, to treat their blood pressure, maybe they have them on Mitoprolo or something like that. A lot of them, they have acid reflux, so they're going to be on Pantoprazo. Put that in there. Any other medication you guys can think of that need to put in here for this patient, I Centoprasa, they have something we are like cholesterol, medical problem, they have lipid, all of them will be on lipid, and anything else, so this is about four medication, I would go ahead, Victor. You want, which one I'll

Speaker 10  42:33
be passing chlorine?

Benoit Tano  42:36
Okay, Casey. Okay, we can. I will try if it bested that, KCR. Okay. I can just add that, Dr. Klausner. What did you say? I, aspirin or ibuprofen? What you said,

Speaker 8  42:52
yeah, ibuprofen,

Benoit Tano  42:54
ibuprofen. Okay,

Speaker 8  42:57
that's by far one of the most abused over the counter medication there is.

Benoit Tano  43:03
That's correct. It will go on ibuprofen, but can take it for headaches or whatever else, aches and pains

Speaker 5  43:09
on that list. Can you add her bills like CBDs?

Benoit Tano  43:18
Which one? CBD? Yeah, okay, yeah, so another one, so I'm gonna put CBD here and see what comes up, so CBD had the CBD to it, so you can see that the Polypharmacy score is already gone up to 82% that means this person is really in bad shape, so then it gives you all the relationship, so it tests for each one of them the score, but the combined score is what you're looking at, the redness, and then the warning, everything that goes along with it, the warning, it says critical triple whammy, that's a bad thing interaction, simultaneous use of ACE inhibitor, diuretics, and NSAID, which is going to be bad for their kidneys, right? So we all know that this is going to be not a no-no, we should not do that, but people do that anyway, and even if taking the medication, they don't talk to the doctor, Dr. Clausdale, right, that go and they buy themselves the ibuprofen, and they start taking it without any supervision, and that leads to multiple other problems, kidney failure, and all the other things that we know about. So, by having this here, and even the patient being able to enter the medications, it will, it will enlighten them about what is going on with them. So, first of all, one of the big things that this program does is when you have all these medications, what nutrients are they depleting? So, it gives you all the nutrient depletion, so B 12 CoQ 10 magnesium, not only gives you what is depleted, but it tells you also how much you need and how to get those. It tells you zinc deficiency, folate deficiency, and then it combines them, drug drug interaction, so between lysineopia and ibuprofen problem, between lysineopia and KCL problem, between hydrochlorothyzide and ibuprofen problem, CBD and atomic statin problem, metoproloc and CBD problem, so you can see all the things that is giving you as information, and then organ system risk accumulation, so it tells you about systematically. Also, the renol problem is the big one, right here, and gastrointestinal problem, big one, musculoskeletal, some of it also for people who want to buy it, actually those medications it gives you some coupons, but they can use good RX coupons that people can use, and it will help them out, so they can buy the medication cheaper, but even if I don't have insurance to cover it, as soon as, as you can see on the right-hand side, the insurance portion is cheaper, but the second cheapest one would be with the coupons, and that's what we have for now. Here, any questions about this stuff? How this is panning out. So, I think you know, for those of you who have assistant in your offices, all you can do is instead of just putting a medication list, you can introduce, or you can enter, have your assistant enter all the medication that the patient's on in the Polypharmacy, and then automatically it gives you all the interactions and everything else that we need to know, so then you, when you go to the room, you can tell the patient, you know, you are on ABCD. These are the things that do it to you, and maybe you should talk to your doctor and try to figure it out, or maybe you should take such supplements to help you out, because many of the general practitioners that don't give anybody nutritional supplements, and so if the medication they have them on is causing problems, perhaps they should give them supplements, and that would be another point of education for the general practitioners to realize that giving medication is not benign. You have to know that the medication will not only interact with others, but also that would deplete your nutrients, but will cause more problem for you. I have, so this is so tiny. Let me just go see after my other information that we do need. We need, I want to do symptoms. I have one, which helps with symptoms. We can just enter symptoms, and it will tell us exactly what we need to know, but we can do that later. Let's do AI search. Any thing else anybody wants to know on any subject?

Bill Clearfield  48:20
Hashimoto slammed radius. thyroiditis,

Benoit Tano  48:23
Hashimoto's. Okay, good. So let's do Hashimoto's Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Speaker 2  48:32
How did you get to AI search?

Benoit Tano  48:35
Oh, I went to supplements. Well, you go to supplements right there underneath it says AI search got it, okay. So I'm going to check hash models, I saw it's populating that very quickly for us, I'm Bingo, so it's done. So, instead of me reading it and stuff, we can narrate it, so it would tell us what Kashimoto is doing,

Speaker 11  49:22
medical. reference. Hashimoto's thyroiditis, chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis. Hashimoto's thyroiditis is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in iodine-sufficient regions. It is an autoimmune condition characterized by the destruction of thyroid follicular cells by cell and antibody-mediated immune processes. Pathophysiology: the core mechanism involves a breakdown in self-tolerance to thyroid antigens, specifically thyroid peroxidase (TPO) and thyroglobulin (TG) Genetic predisposition associated with HLA D r3 HLA D r5 and CTLA four polymorphisms immune cascade CD four plus T cells activate B cells, which produce anti-TPO and anti-TG antibodies. CD eight plus cytotoxic T cells and cytokines IFN gamma lead to follicular cell apoptosis and fibrosis. The hashytoxicosis phase, occasional initial leak of stored thyroid hormone into the blood, causing temporary hypothyroidism before progressing to permanent hypothyroidism. Primary indications for treatment: overt hypo,

Benoit Tano  50:42
so I'm not going to have it narrate everything, but you can see you can download this as an MP. Also, so if you don't have time to listen to it right now, you can download it, and then listen to it at your pleasure, or you're traveling, you can listen to it, and then

Bill Clearfield  50:58
where they, they do what, how to evaluate, maybe you know how to treat it the unconventional way.

Benoit Tano  51:06
Oh, yeah, yeah, it gives you all that information. So, it gives you conventional medication and mechanism side effects, it gives you drug interactions, it gives you nutrient depletions, it gives you functional medicine approaches, right? So, again, it's going to give you everything that you need to know, just like we did before. So, it gives you the traditional medicine approaches, everything. Not only that.

Bill Clearfield  51:36
Here's a question for you: Who programmed this in the first place?

Benoit Tano  51:40
I did.

Bill Clearfield  51:41
You did.

Benoit Tano  51:42
Yes,

Bill Clearfield  51:43
you wrote out all of these medical syndromes, and

Benoit Tano  51:48
yeah, so I programmed it and asked him to give me all the things that I need to do. That's the thing. Why it's difficult, because if you don't really know what you want to do, you cannot ask the AI to give you the information, so you have to be able to program it, and with all your knowledge, you can ask the AI to give you what you want. Of course, that's what I did. I just went in there, actually AI to give me all this information, systematically cover all the bases, so that nobody can be lost.

Bill Clearfield  52:28
You have to update it.

Benoit Tano  52:29
Yeah, so I have in many of these, I have a call it Bayesian update. So many of the information that we have, we get Bayesian update where it takes the prior information we have, and every time there's a new information, it embeds that new information in it to update it to be able to do all of that, you have to know statistics, so that's why my economics and everything has merged together into this whole app, so this everybody asked me, How long did it take you to do this app? Well, I would say it took me years, right, because it's all my cumulative knowledge. Because I did the economics, after that I did the internal medicine, I did biology, immunology. I did a two year fellowship with GlaxoSmithKline in pharmacoeconomics and outcome research. So, based on that, I just put in all that information and give me something substantive. So, clinical trials, they give you the clinical trial phases, all of our medications, publications, they give you a lot of information, so calculation parameters, so these are the cost effectiveness analysis that all the pharmaceutical companies do when they're trying to put out a medication, so I checked the cost effectiveness analysis, I do the ISO incremental cost effectiveness ratio, I check the incremental cost effectiveness elasticity, that one I created. Actually, I remember one time I presented this at one of the East Spore conferences, the people who do economic studies in medicine, they were kind of fused. I said, 'Woow, somebody is thinking differently, because instead of doing the ICER, this is unit dependent. Now, if you do a clinical trial that encompasses many countries, and they have different money denomination, dollars, euros, etc. In order for you to calculate this ICER, it's complicated, because what units are you going to do? You have to convert one unit into another, so it converts euros to dollars or whatever, so I came up with this incremental cost effectiveness elasticity in such a way that you don't have to deal with the units, it takes up the units you don't need it, so you talk in terms of percentage changes rather than units, and that is beautiful for clinical trials, so then we can do it. The multi-country clinical trials. Now, what is nice about this one here is that at the end you can create cases, so we can generate cases, as many cases as we want. We want 200 cases based on Hashimoto Tyroditis. We're going to do that. It will give you the case studies. You can also generate multiple choice questions with answers. You can do a patient booklet, so we can print this one for the patient, and we can generate even a whole book out of it, and we can generate a webinar out of that.

Speaker 5  56:00
Real quick question. Under functional approach, just using this one, the Hashimoto's as an example, you have items number five, nutrient six, functional medicine and integrative approach, seven lifestyle, but I also, I don't really see a holistic section that might, like you said, was the integrative medicine or traditional medicine, whether that is Ayurveda or Chinese medicine, an herbal approach, or anything like that. Is that there? I'm just not seeing it,

Benoit Tano  56:42
so let me go to AI search. You put me out, so can just do that.

Speaker 5  56:50
Obviously, it's still on the Hashimoto's page.

Benoit Tano  56:52
Yeah, I'm trying to do a

Speaker 5  57:06
Yeah, yeah, it's okay, because on six it says functional medicine and integrative approach, but the integrative approach is just a list of supplements.

Benoit Tano  57:18
Yes, so it did not give you the, you mean it did not give us the traditional medicine approaches and stuff like that, right? Okay, so yeah, that this one did not do that, but we can still do that, we can have it do, remember when you do condition, it gives you that, so you have multiple capacity,

Speaker 5  57:38
okay? Okay,

Benoit Tano  57:40
that possibility. Yes.

Speaker 5  57:41
Okay. Well, you know, I'm looking for Walmart one stop shopping.

Benoit Tano  57:45
Yeah, so if we generate cases, so can generate a case study, for instance, let's see what happened. So it's generating the case study, patient Amara or CA for age 34 blah blah blah. It tells you HGNT, it gives you physical exam, it tells you laboratory results, it gives you thyro ultrasound, it gives you the differential diagnosis, it gives you the hash model of pyrophydisciple with overt hypothyroidism? It tells you the pharmacotherapy administration, etc. Selenium, that you need for functional medicine. It tells you vitamin D, tells you other things that you need to do, gluten-free diet, all these other stuff. Classification, Ayurvedic fear, Doctor. I see it. Yeah, it gives you Ayurvedic traditional medicine perspective. It tells you all the things that you need to do. Caphavera, I mean, it's.. I think it gives you many, many things. And then you can do the multiple prognosis. After that, it gives you board style questions, so it gives you the multiple choice question. I already

Bill Clearfield  59:08
disagree with question one answer.

Benoit Tano  59:11
What did it say?

Bill Clearfield  59:14
Which of the following sensitive screening tests for diagnosing Hashimotos thyroiditis in a symptomatic patient?

Benoit Tano  59:20
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  59:20
they're giving you an answer of B. I disagree.

Benoit Tano  59:23
Okay, so anti-Pyroglobulin antibody. So I would say TPO probably is C. Yeah, did it Dyreg ultrasound? No. Okay, so here it gave you only three choices, right?

Bill Clearfield  59:40
There's a fourth up there, right next to it. It says a 3t three.

Benoit Tano  59:46
Yeah, it gave you three different. Now the thing is, this is the multiple choice, right? Out of them, all, which one will be the most appropriate? So

Bill Clearfield  59:57
I say c. Yeah, you have the answer. There is B, so,

Benoit Tano  1:00:01
oh yeah, I put B, but it says serum TSH is the most sensitive initial test, so that

Bill Clearfield  1:00:08
wasn't

Benoit Tano  1:00:09
the most sensitive screening test for diagnosis Hashimotothyroiditis in a symptomatic patient. Now, on

Speaker 5  1:00:18
my screen it says answer C.

Benoit Tano  1:00:22
Yeah, okay. C,

Speaker 5  1:00:27
yeah. It says antithyroid peroxidase or TPO antibodies. That's on my screen. That's what it's showing. B

Benoit Tano  1:00:37
means that each one of us who does it, it gives us different things, it gives us output, so if we're not having the same case studies answers, that's interesting, but that's not a case that I have noticed, because I haven't.

Speaker 5  1:00:56
Does anybody else have C as their answer? I Was it just me?

Bill Clearfield  1:01:05
I have B.

Speaker 10  1:01:06
I have B.

Benoit Tano  1:01:08
Everybody got a B, except for Dr. Jim. So, you, you trick the computer.

Speaker 5  1:01:13
I messed it up. I'm so sorry.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:17
Let's have that 1940s computer, Dr. James. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:01:20
it must be it, because it goes into it. While ta c is the best screening test for thyroid function, TPL antibodies are present, and greater than 90%

Benoit Tano  1:01:37
in terms of BSE, and what the explanation of why this one was correct,

Speaker 5  1:01:46
right?

Bill Clearfield  1:01:47
That answer they gave us was wasn't what the question was, at least for B.

Benoit Tano  1:01:53
Okay, yeah. Well,

Bill Clearfield  1:01:54
in my opinion, what do I know?

Benoit Tano  1:01:57
Something we need to.. we need.. I'm going to look into this. So that's good, that's good.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:03
We already always throwing rocks at you already, Dr. C.

Benoit Tano  1:02:08
So we're gonna try to look into it to see why we got different answers and everything else, right? Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:02:17
do you want me to screenshot this?

Benoit Tano  1:02:20
Yeah, please do that, and then you can generate the patient booklet. So, here you can print it out, and you can save it for the patient. You can do a lot of things with it, and then the patient will have an idea, or the Hashimotosis. So, if you don't have any handout for them, this becomes an easy way of handing out information to be patient, so you can just say print, and then it would put in a nice format for you, and then you can just print it out. Any questions about this type? So, I'm not going to generate a book. I'm not going to do all of this. Have a staff webinar. We can do that. The webinar is really nice. It gives you a very concise and crisp way of explaining the whole thing for the patients. Now, if we go to supplements, while we're doing that, and click on supplements, we what did they do? Oh, supplements. So that's putting me back on the stock record, so if you click on supplement, you can either search by supplement or you can search by health condition, since we started with Hashimoto. So let's put Hashimoto's here already, die, this, and you search, you Here, mind you, it's only about supplements, right? So we're looking at the functional medicine approach to based or orthogonal approach, so it's going to tell us all the supplements that are used in the treatment of Hashimotothyroditis. So you can see all the things that are recommended here. Myoinositol, how many of you use this myo inositol?

Bill Clearfield  1:05:01
I do

Benoit Tano  1:05:02
okay. How many of you, Doctor Cleopat, does, and how many of you, how, how many other people use that? So that's one of the supplements for insulin resistance.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:18
It's actually very good in peace, polycystic over,

Benoit Tano  1:05:22
yeah, very good for PCOS, because many PCOS patients, they have insulin resistance, so instead of just doing metformin or about it,

Bill Clearfield  1:05:31
also helps regulate the menstrual cycle.

Benoit Tano  1:05:34
Yes, so myo-nisito is very good. I think it's designed for help for somebody who puts that out, and here it gives you all the dosing, everything that you need to know, Ashwagandha and aceto cysteine, probiotic, everything. Now, good news is it gives you what other people are doing, or to other protocols we have around. So, what if you want to create your own protocol? Then you can generate the protocol for yourself, so you can click here, and it will give you your own protocol. How you can use different nutrients to treat the condition, so so far what we're doing is just using some of the some of the features of this app to help us navigate the patients and try to see what can be done, so it's Generative that already. Now, one of the things we can do, can compare what we have with the existing protocol, so our protocol head to head comparison with the existing protocols. Yeah, so it's like we're doing a clinical trial for 12 weeks for virus support using our protocol for Hashimoto's, and then it will tell us phase one preparation. What do we need to use as supplements? Phase two, it gives you the number of weeks in what do you need as supplements, and then it goes into phase three, then it gives you a lot more extensive information, monitoring all of that step by step secondary outcome, so the primary outcome, secondary outcome. What do you need to know? So it gives you all that information, and then we can save this one to our studies. You can print it out, we can share it, we can do a lot of things with it, narrate it if we want to. So tiny, really rather narrated instead of reading myself, and then you can see that it gives you all the comparison, so it gives you the head to head comparison with everything else that other people are doing. If we did the narration, then it would tell us all of this information that we have, there's a lot of information. Not only that, so you see how much it has put out for you to know all the things that you need to know about the treatment of Hashimoto's. Not only that, we can do the RV. I think that is kind of nice. So, if we want to generate an RB, we can see put in the principal investigator. So, here I'm going to put myself as the principal investigator, so the North Tano MD. then I will put co-investigator. I will put Dr. James, Dr. Anthony B.

Speaker 5  1:09:33
Wait, wait. Where's the waiver?

Benoit Tano  1:09:35
Oh, Dr. James, can I use you?

Speaker 5  1:09:39
Yeah. yeah,

Speaker 12  1:09:42
certainly. Go, go for it,

Speaker 5  1:09:45
for illustration purposes.

Benoit Tano  1:09:47
So, I would do Dr. Gimsa School, NAICS CNM adu.org Yeah, okay, so if I had that and I say generate tribal IRB, so then it will generate the whole tribal IRB. Oh, one thing that missed, I did not put the tribe, I did not put anything, so it would probably put in one tribe something for us, so for those of you who have not written any RB before, at least this gives you a CAMVAC that you can use to generate an RB, and you can download that as a Word document, and you can put in more information if you want to, so it gives you all the information in terms of regulations and everything else that you need to know to write the IRB, so so because this platform, I know we talk about it, we want to use it for research, and if you want to use it for research, you have to be able to create protocols and IRBs and approval of the RRB before you undertake your clinical research, any questions, though, that all this stuff that we're doing here, so I mean, for me this is a lot of detailed information that people, if you start with one thing, you can go deep and get a more understanding of the condition, research it, do many, many other things with it, as much as possible. So, if you, you don't know anything about the condition, and you want to learn more about it, I don't think there's any place more concise and precise and comprehensive than what we have here, even if you go to app to date, they give you justice, some summary, some basic summary of things that they don't go in detail to give you anything close to what we have.

Speaker 5  1:12:34
Otherwise, generate a patient handout.

Benoit Tano  1:12:38
Oh, so if you go to be, I

Speaker 5  1:12:42
see a section that's marked patient handout.

Benoit Tano  1:12:46
Yeah, so that's when you good to be AI search, and then they go down, then you can generate the patient handout. So this

Speaker 10  1:13:02
is AI search only under supplements.

Benoit Tano  1:13:05
Yeah, it's under supplement, that's the only place. So,

Speaker 10  1:13:08
okay,

Benoit Tano  1:13:09
yeah, I would like to take it out and put it probably even up here somewhere, so it makes it easier for people to find it, but if somebody subscribe it, just subscribe to it, they would know where it be AI searches, and there's a lot of other things that we can check here, it'd be economic studies and everything else, medications. So, if we go, say medication, this is very interesting. If we put any conventional medication, what medication do you want to know about

Speaker 10  1:13:46
ivermectin?

Benoit Tano  1:13:48
Ivermectin. Okay, perfect. Let's do ivermectin and see what it does for us. so here any medication it would tell you the manufacturer would tell you the all the coverage or the medication, so I'm, MYCIN, he give you some warning already, you can put that in the database, so people don't have to go back and forth approval indications of the Avemetine, so you can see what the FDA said we should be using it for, but also it gives you the off-label use for it, so it says off-label use, you can do both, and then you can see all the off-label use of the Agnimeton. Not only that, it gives you also evidence and real-world data. How many clinical trials have been done on Agnikton? So it gives you a total of 40 clinical trials with all the titles and information about that, and you can access those clinical trials if you want to. It gives you also the pharmacoeconomics of that, it gives you the benefit of ivermectin, and it gives you the adverse events that have occurred since people use it, so you can click on each one of them, and then it will tell you all the information that you want to know, like the benefits it gives you, that also the adverse events, it tells you what the IMMETA is doing to people, basically, so it can go unannounced and find out, so many people think it's benign, but definitely not, so there's a lot of things that people need to know about, so before using it, I hear people can at least learn about the medication thoroughly, so other thing that we have here, dos a common dosing, so it tells you exactly how much people need to use brand names in the US, in the major industrialized countries, it tells you exactly how they call it in different places. It tells you the side effect profile, it tells you the major drug interactions, it tells you the contraindications, and also you can generate the coverage. So, who is covering it? So, if you click on that, then it will tell you all the insurance plans that cover it. So, for any drug, if you take all the new one, biologics, or whatever, name it, then we give you all that information. This is very useful for the drug reps, because the drug reps, they come and they say, for your coverage, you have such that you have a Medicare, Medicaid, you have commercial insurances, you have that, but you, we don't have to listen to them first, we can come here and find out the coverage, what in the US, what in North America, what is going on? So, we have good RSA discounts, we have a Medicare Part D, we have Medicaid, we have the Canada Provincial Things that they need, we need to know. We have employer private insurance coverage, so they will come and tell you all the insurances that would cover ivermectin for you, and if you go to Europe, they give us the European countries that have coverage for other metrics, etc. And it goes up a way into Africa. What African countries have American coverage? I think that's a good service for people to know, and that's why we have that. Any questions about this stuff?

Speaker 3  1:18:07
Yeah, I have a question.

Benoit Tano  1:18:09
Yes,

Speaker 3  1:18:10
how would you prescribe a homeopathic? And then how would you deal with triage in an ER situation?

Benoit Tano  1:18:19
Well, so the homeopathic comes with the condition, right? So, if we're treating anyone with a condition, then it would tell us the homeopathic information through the traditional medicine things that we're doing. So, that's how, yeah, I

Speaker 10  1:18:42
and Dr. Tano, you quickly mentioned when you had tribal IRB there, you quickly mentioned something about ahead of space for tribe and all of that. Is that required or no?

Benoit Tano  1:18:54
No. Well, yeah, it's not required, because if we don't put anything, we'll put a trial, a tribal one of the tribes in it for you, but if you specify, then it will tell you exactly which tribe you, okay? So

Speaker 10  1:19:07
you do have to specify, or

Benoit Tano  1:19:09
if you want one particular tribe to be where the RB is covering,

Speaker 10  1:19:15
okay?

Benoit Tano  1:19:16
Yep. Other questions for me, so far. Yes, if

Speaker 9  1:19:24
you have.. I'm sorry, I know if you can see me. If you have a patient, if you have a patient who has a complex history and you want to put all their stuff in, I know you can import the patient, right? But can you put it in the program and say what would be your point? Like, what would be your recommendations? Or yes,

Benoit Tano  1:19:37
actually we have that. So, okay, a group of symptoms, you put all the symptoms in, and then it will give you the diagnosis. They give you everything that you need to know,

Speaker 9  1:19:49
but like, if they were discharged, right, and they're being admitted to your service, and they have this discharge summary, and it shows you all their work up and everything they did. Will it flag anything inappropriate, or things that should be rechecked, or can you ask it to,

Benoit Tano  1:20:01
yeah, so this is the symptom synthesis. So, when you go to the clinicals, you go down under documents, then it will give you the symptom synthesis, and in the symptom synthesis, you can actually put in all the information about the symptoms that needs to be checked, so if we go here, you can see all I made sure that we can list as many symptoms as possible, and also we can add in any symptom that we want, the patient present with symptom. Now, what I have done is when we do a review of systems, because I, my review system, I go from head to toe, and all the positive that the patient say, "Yes, I have this, it romantically populate that into the symptom synthesis, and then you can click on that, and then we give you all the information that you need in terms of summary of the patient, so it gives you the, yeah, it gives you that information. So, then one more

Speaker 9  1:21:03
question. Because I actually teach a lot of, I do precision esthetics, and so it sounds weird, but optimizing patient health, and then esthetics too. Can we upload pictures, like before and after pictures? And can you draw on a picture of something and upload it in the chart?

Benoit Tano  1:21:16
That is a good question. I did not incorporate that, but that's good to know, so can we upload pictures? So, let me see. Upload, upload,

Speaker 10  1:21:27
he'll have that done by next week. Good. And

Speaker 9  1:21:30
a point of sale system, like a right, like if I have things that they're purchasing, right? Like even medications, right? Is there a point of sale, like a POS, so they can, you can write quotes and things like that in this too,

Benoit Tano  1:21:43
yeah, yeah. So we have that, that actually, if you have medications or whatever you want to sell, we can probably help you incorporate that, so people can have the link, and then they can go and buy directly. Yes,

Speaker 9  1:22:00
Dr. Clearfield, I might have 350 providers for Dr. Tano,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:04
think so.

Benoit Tano  1:22:05
Yeah, that would be good. I think we, we, we have a lot of stuff that we're doing, and the more people we have that come and help us use it, the better, because just look for this hour, what have we done? We have done only a couple of things. We haven't even touched any of the major issues, like education, marketing community, and stuff like that. We have not done anything like that. So,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:35
Doctor Tano, can you go back to that main screen there? You had, like, go back. Yeah, so what's under, like, the biological age? Tell them you're tracking. Are these are those tests that are, yeah, yeah,

Benoit Tano  1:22:47
test that's not available for people to do, like people who do biological age testing and all of that. So we'll be able to help you find them in those proprietary

Bill Clearfield  1:22:58
in the program, or are those like

Benoit Tano  1:23:00
from link to, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:23:04
it's linked to some company, right?

Benoit Tano  1:23:06
Company, yes. Oh,

Speaker 9  1:23:08
that was the question. If it's linked to a company, do you have, you pay for the subscription through that company?

Benoit Tano  1:23:13
Have to pay them, you don't pay through us. Yes. Other questions, and eventually, what will happen is I'm going to try to talk to companies, like, so then we can have the test here, that way the people who use the platform don't have to go outside and try to bargain with somebody, but just get everything here, like a RuPa Health does, yeah, we will have the same thing here,

Speaker 13  1:23:41
Dr. Tano.

Benoit Tano  1:23:43
Yes,

Speaker 13  1:23:44
can you, can you look at something for me? Because I don't know if I'm doing something wrong. I went to the supplements and the AI search, and I put in berberine. I hear you guys talk about that a lot, and I want to put my son on that, so I put that in there, and it starts out talking about berberine, and then the farther along you go, it sort of switches over to, you know, basically starts to talk about all the things instead of Burberry. It doesn't, you know, like I said, it doesn't tell me like I was, you know, hoping for like recommendations on how

Benoit Tano  1:24:18
can you do it, an AI search, good to be AI search under supplements, go to AI search, and put in berberine.

Speaker 13  1:24:25
That's what I did. Can you do it? Can you do for me? Because that's what I did, and this is what it's coming up. So, it says, you know, like I said, it tells you the first section, it explains what it is, and that has the mechanism of action and the primary uses side effect drug interactions nutrient depletions functional medicine alternatives, so here we start putting in, you know, other alternatives, which great lifestyle modifications in the next session section, and then it goes, you know, the cost effectiveness, blah blah blah, but then it starts to say, you know, bottom line, it's, you know, it's an exceptional, you know, supplement for anyone who is a statin intolerant or metformin intolerant, so then from there on it talks about, like, everything at like the plans and all this stuff. From there on, it's all about warfarin and the statins and metformin.

Benoit Tano  1:25:28
Did he, did he say anything about drug drug interaction there? Yes, that probably was what he's doing. So not only it tells you what you can do, benefits, etc. but it tells you also the drug-drug interaction, and what you should know about. So, then, when you're going to give to someone, you have to ask them if they're on warfarin, they're on anything else,

Speaker 13  1:25:51
but it doesn't, like I said, it doesn't tell me, like, like most dosages, or like I said, it's completely goes to other, is talking all about the other things instead.

Benoit Tano  1:26:04
Okay, so can you go under supplement? So under supplement, click on all supplements.

Speaker 13  1:26:12
All right, let me go there. So that's maybe I went to the wrong place.

Benoit Tano  1:26:18
Yeah, so when you click on all supplements, then you would say supplements, and by by supplement, and by health condition. Click on buy supplement, and then enter Berberine. All

Speaker 13  1:26:35
right, I actually think I did it all right. So wait, all supplements guide. Here we go. Buy supplement,

Benoit Tano  1:26:44
yeah. So,

Speaker 13  1:26:45
instead of by, if I.. I'm so sorry, I'm slow. Buy supplement, and then by health condition, and that

Benoit Tano  1:26:51
click on buy supplement and put in berberine, okay? And then you will see it gives you concise, actually, information about the dosing and everything else, and what is doing.

Speaker 13  1:27:02
So, I went to the wrong place to look it up. All right,

Speaker 5  1:27:08
my screen looks very, very different, Dr. Tano. I don't know if it's a platform issue. I did same search, but I have a very different window.

Benoit Tano  1:27:21
Okay, so if it doesn't give you the same window as mine,

Speaker 5  1:27:26
no.

Benoit Tano  1:27:27
Okay, so what? What do you did you go to supplement and put in berberine?

Speaker 5  1:27:31
Yeah, AI supplement AI search submarine.

Speaker 13  1:27:38
That's how I did it before, which was search.

Benoit Tano  1:27:40
Yeah, so good. Good outside. supplement, all of you go to supplement, so under supplement go to all supplements first,

Speaker 5  1:27:50
go to all supplements first. Okay,

Benoit Tano  1:27:52
supplements, and then under that, we say buy supplement or buy condition, and if you click on buy supplement, then you can put in berberine, okay, and you will see a lot of information concise. It tells you about AMPK and all of his other stuff that the berberine does. Okay,

Speaker 5  1:28:10
I just went straight to the AI search,

Speaker 13  1:28:13
that's what I did too.

Benoit Tano  1:28:16
So it's better if you do a supplement search, you go to supplement under supplement, and then we give you all the information you need about,

Speaker 5  1:28:23
okay? Now, now it looks the same as yours.

Benoit Tano  1:28:26
Yes.

Speaker 13  1:28:28
All right. Thank you. Thank you.

Benoit Tano  1:28:30
So, now you can have it, those things you can print it out if you want to, you can have it all, and you can do all this stuff you want with it.

Speaker 5  1:28:38
No, thanks, Jenny. Now, I, now I know what I was doing wrong.

Benoit Tano  1:28:45
Yep. Any other questions?

Speaker 6  1:28:49
Yeah. Dr. Tano, this is David Kahn. How are you?

Benoit Tano  1:28:52
I'm doing well.

Speaker 6  1:28:53
Haven't seen you since Reno.

Benoit Tano  1:28:55
Yeah, that's true.

Speaker 6  1:28:57
I tried. I called a few times, but you're a busy guy, and me too, and we can try again, but I had a question on this AI. I came in a little bit late. Is this a special customized version utilizing AI?

Benoit Tano  1:29:13
Great, so I created the Visa AI for providers or patients to use it to search conditions. conditions treatments apply to clinics, do all kinds of stuff with

Speaker 6  1:29:30
it. Is there a monthly fee on this, or how does it? Yeah, so

Benoit Tano  1:29:33
by popular demand, everybody says I should put it very cheap, so I for subscription I put $99 per month. Problem is many of the some of the things that we have here, I just made them out, I took them outside the stuff. So, for instance, if you go 99 is the pro version, if you want the clinical suite, which encompasses zillions of staff, I said, but people who want to use it for scribing, for taking care of their patients, day to day registration, revenue cycling, all of the stuff that they do in their clinic to generate a lot of money, they'll need to pay a little more, so that's why I put that at 397 a month for that, because if you go any other place, this is the cheapest that you can find. I don't know anybody who would do all these other things that you have here for $3 300 $400 a month, no way, even you know, for AI scribe alone, many of the AI scribe between $9,900 and $150 a month. Just describe, so those of you who use the scribe, you can tell me what, how much you pay for it, and you will see.

Speaker 6  1:31:01
Great, thank you. So, I think you've done a remarkable job, from what I've seen. So, it's very interesting. We have many doctors who I think can utilize this, you know. Basically, the doctor is a healer, so this just gives them information to make final decisions that best serves its patient,

Benoit Tano  1:31:21
that's correct, and yeah, so information that helps the doctor to limit damage in terms of things that they don't know, you're prescribing, you don't know what medication they're on, what they're doing to be patient,

Bill Clearfield  1:31:37
right,

Benoit Tano  1:31:37
so by knowing that, at least you become way aware and present and give the patient what they need to be cured or help them out.

Speaker 6  1:31:50
Is there an annual fee basis or is it monthly?

Benoit Tano  1:31:54
So, $100 a month, people can cancel anytime they want. They don't want it, they don't want it, but yeah, but once you use it and you see the benefits, I don't think people will cancel that,

Speaker 6  1:32:06
right? How long have you been developing this?

Benoit Tano  1:32:09
Like I said, so I have. I'm using all my expertise that I have developed for years, right? I went to school for many, many things, and cooperating everything that I know into this app.

Speaker 6  1:32:26
It's great, very good. Thank you. Congratulations.

Benoit Tano  1:32:33
We can use

Speaker 7  1:32:33
this as an app. It's an app on Apple Store.

Benoit Tano  1:32:37
No, no, not yet, but you can do it on your cell phone, because this fits on your cell phone, and you can do it also on your computer for now. Yes, because the most, most, most of the AI stuff, they put on the on Apple Store, where you can use that as an app, but I have a desktop version, and this desktop version, if you put Tyre Pro med.com on your, on your cell phone, then it will come as an app there, so you can use it there. But down the road, I would probably put it on the iOS. I have iOS account, so I'll put it there. Simple.

Speaker 7  1:33:26
Thank you, Dr.

Speaker 6  1:33:27
Tano. Can I just contact you at your office to get started?

Benoit Tano  1:33:31
Yeah, sure. Absolutely

Speaker 1  1:33:33
right.

Benoit Tano  1:33:34
Yeah, actually I can give you my number, but let me put my number in the chat, so then if anybody wants to reach me, you can do that, 860817 20 909 527378323 so I have my Minnesota and my Connecticut numbers

Speaker 1  1:34:04
great.

Speaker 5  1:34:06
Dr. Tano, could I say something real quick?

Benoit Tano  1:34:09
Absolutely, go ahead.

Speaker 5  1:34:10
Okay, so a group of us have been working with Dr. Tano pretty much since he announced the idea, and have been making little contributions along the way, so as it stands right now, maybe he'll change his mind in the future, but right now, if you're going through the data, the outcomes, and you see elements that you feel are missing or could be maybe elaborated on more deeply, then you forward that to Dr. Tano, and then about a week later you'll see it in the app.

Benoit Tano  1:34:56
Correct. Yes, we will do that. So he's been very

Speaker 5  1:34:59
responsive to like, like, just like what I point outside, say, well, wait a minute, but it says, you know, this is the integrative approach, but it's missing xyz, and he got, he'll look it up, and he'll say, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, it's missing xyz, and the next iteration will have that, okay, Dr. Quinn has seen it. Quite a few of us have been sort of tracking this baby, this baby growing for a while, and I want to, I want to recommend, if nothing else, you can use the utility, but you're particular, like Dr. Clearfield. He's very persnickety. I mean, I don't know him, but so far that's that's my impression. So he will look at this and look at outcome clinically, and he'll say, well, that that's okay, but we've been doing this for 20 years, and it works better, so can we see that in there? And then Tano will update to add the Clearfield protocol,

Benoit Tano  1:36:12
correct? Yes,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:13
for Snickety.

Speaker 5  1:36:15
Well, you know, I'm from the South. I'm sorry, sometimes I sound like I'm where I'm from,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:22
called a lot of things before, but never persnickety. Oh, good, oh, good,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:27
that's a new one.

Speaker 5  1:36:29
Look at, look it up, Tano, yeah, it's a good word. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:34
all right. So, well, Caitlin, put that, put that one down,

Benoit Tano  1:36:39
okay, uh so from here I have come at some podcast, so when you go to the education, I think the podcast actually is not so bad, even though it's AI-generated, but the topics that it covers, it is so well done that it doesn't matter if whether it's me speaking or be I speaking or something, but it does a great job introducing different topics to be practitioners. Is

Speaker 10  1:37:10
it like the podcast we saw before, Dr. Tano, with the with the visual as well, the pictures and all that?

Benoit Tano  1:37:17
Yeah, some of it, but not really. This one is just talking podcast, okay, yeah. So, if we have, for instance, the ghost in the Biological Machine podcast, we can do that one here. We

Speaker 11  1:37:33
all know the story. Genes are destiny. You inherit them, and they dictate everything from your eye color to your disease risk. What if I told you that's a vast oversimplification? What if the choices your grandmother made, what she ate, the stress she endured, could literally embed themselves into your DNA, not by changing the genetic code itself, but by an invisible layer of instruction that whispers commands to your cells, commands that can be passed down generations, that's not science fiction, it's epigenetics, and it's reshaping everything we thought we knew about health, inheritance, and even free will. Welcome back to the podcast, everyone. Dr. Tano here, and today, oh man, today we are cracking open a topic that I honestly believe is one of the most profound and paradigm shifting fields in modern medicine. We're talking about the ghost in the biological machine, the operating system that runs our genetic hardware. And to guide us through this intricate, mind-bending landscape, I am absolutely thrilled to introduce a true pioneer in this space today. We have with us Dr. Anya Sharma. Dr. Sharma is a distinguished professor of molecular biology and epigenetics at the renowned Karolinska Institute, whose groundbreaking research on transgenerational epigenetic inheritance has really challenged and utterly redefined our understanding of heredity and disease. Her work has been published in every top tier journal you can imagine, from Nature to Cell, and she's at the forefront of translating these complex concepts into actionable insights for clinical practice. Dr. Sharma, it's an honor to have you here.

Speaker 14  1:39:15
Dr. Tano, thank you so much for that incredibly generous introduction. It's truly a pleasure and an honor to be here, especially on a podcast that I followed for so long, and frankly, one that constantly pushes the boundaries walls of medical understanding. This topic, epigenetics, honestly, it's not just my academic focus, it's become my personal obsession. I remember early in my,

Benoit Tano  1:39:42
so as you guys can see, so there's an interview with a person, and then interview is going to go deep into epigenetics, so we'll explain everything that you need to know about epigenetics, and these are 45 minutes, which is very cool and nice, I think, but it's not a real podcast where we have the people, actual images, the video, everything, but this is the next step. So, in here, we can always embed true podcast, and then people can see the people talking and yeah, gesticulating, and stuff like that.

Speaker 10  1:40:24
Okay, and you know, you know, my major complaint, right? I know,

Benoit Tano  1:40:27
yeah, I have to use my voice. That's right. I'm working on that. Actually, I'm trying to figure out really huge software. Should I use a Hayden or something, so then I can clone my voice, but 11 lives I can use to clone my voice, but I'm trying to work on it. Once I do, then I would embed that in many of the podcasts that will be generating later on.

Speaker 10  1:40:53
Well, and then use Dr. Clearfield's voice as the expert.

Benoit Tano  1:40:57
That's right, I, Dr. Clearfield, would be the expert.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:00
I wanted to make sure that it's persnickety, though.

Speaker 5  1:41:05
Look it up, I think it's appropriate. Hey, I'm gonna have to bounce. I'm so sorry, but I wanted to say a kudo to Dr. Clearfield before I left. Dr. Clearfield, I was inspired by your presentation on battlefield acupuncture, so much so that I contacted John Howard, and I went to Tampa, VA, and did the advanced BFA certification with John, with John Howard, just to get up to speed, and I'm once again in love with the BFA and the battlefield acupuncture. Thanks to you, so thank you so much for doing that presentation.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:50
You'll be happy to do the advanced BFA for us one week, right?

Speaker 5  1:41:55
Well, yeah, actually I'm doing an integrated forum. I've already talked to John about it, because of course you can do it with needles, but you can also do it with laser, with seeds, with magnets, with, you know, there are other.. if people are needle adverse, okay, there are other ways to do it, and I talked to John about it, but the main thing is, I just want to thank you for, I did this training, you know, 30 years ago, and then I went on to other things, and you just inspired me, so I hunted him down and did the advanced BFA to get the certification up to date, so thanks so much.

Bill Clearfield  1:42:41
All right, well, we're open june 23 I don't, I need a speaker

Speaker 5  1:42:45
june 23

Bill Clearfield  1:42:47
today.

Speaker 5  1:42:52
Do you want.. I mean, I don't know that I could do a better job than you did. You did a wonderful job. It was inspirational to me. I wouldn't spend a bunch of money, because that presentation

Bill Clearfield  1:43:04
for free. I'm not sure what he includes in advance, so I don't remember that. Did I just.. I just covered probably the basics, right?

Speaker 5  1:43:18
Right, he just got. he got into modalities for conditions,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:25
takes, and things like that, right?

Speaker 1  1:43:27
Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:29
All right. Well, and I got

Benoit Tano  1:43:31
the new book.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:33
We got june 23 open. Okay, I

Speaker 5  1:43:36
look at my calendar, but you know, I could maybe I could just voice over with commentary your presentation that you did last time.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:49
Can we make a slide show from the out of this from this program?

Speaker 5  1:43:55
Oh, no, I think you had one. You had a PowerPoint.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:59
No, I'm asking you to a general question, so.. oh, oh, Dr. Tano, can you do it? Can you get a slide out of this?

Speaker 5  1:44:08
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:44:09
like, take, take my, my material that I have and make a slight, you know, slide show. I'm going to make it.. I'm going to do a lecture for a 4m Can I, can I, can I make it from the material that's here, or do I still have to go out outside of this?

Benoit Tano  1:44:25
Probably you mean from the site here, we cannot do it here. You can, you can do a book, but you cannot do anything. So I wanted to show you guys the book, where you can do the book. So education, when you go there, we had the entire pro publishing. and the Tire Pro publishing is actually my software that I use to write the books, the actual books that I put on Amazon. So the Tair Pro publishing software, that's it, is not part of the $99 So if anybody wants to write a book, they have to subscribe to it and write their books, so that's a different, but it's linked to this thing here, so you can write your books, you can, and if people want to get training on prompting, that is something that we can do as well, so people who want to write a really serious book and you want to do the prompting to do the book. Then we can meet, and then I can go over. We can work together to see how you can prompt your, your information, so then it would give you the book that you desire.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:37
Is it this is an add-on, or this is part of the 397 Or no,

Benoit Tano  1:45:41
that's not part of a 397 Since an add on, this is something that is a separate book writing software that people can use and write their books.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:52
So, what's the cost on this?

Benoit Tano  1:45:54
Well, so if you go, I don't want to take much time for it, but if you go down, it will give you all the information about the cost, so it's in the education, and you go to Tia Pro Publishing, so those of you who are doing the trial, you can go there and type on Tyrepro Publishing, you can enlarge it from here, so open the site, if you click on open the site, then it would open big, so then you can have access to it, and do a lot of stuff, you can do even a trial of that too, and generate a little bit of information, so you see how the output looks like, and then you can, yeah, you can go from there.

Speaker 5  1:46:42
When I open the link view plans and top ups, it just takes me to another registration page.

Benoit Tano  1:46:54
Well, because it's a different platform that I just embedded into this

Speaker 5  1:47:00
one. Okay, is do we have to do that before we can see the pricing for the publishing?

Benoit Tano  1:47:06
Yeah, you have to register, you have to do all of this stuff, and then get in, you get a free trial, just like you can do a free trial for Te Appro Med, we help you with that, but that this book publishing stuff is amazing, if you ask me. Not because I created it, but I think it gives you better book formatting, better book writing than any other software that I've seen on the market. There are many book writing software on the market, but they don't do what we do, I Uh, again, so if we go to community, I'm just giving you a few things. If we go to community, we have a newsletter, and the newsletter you can subscribe to both, and then every week it gives us a newsletter, so if you hear, for instance, the heat age metabolite syndrome flash point, so when we are in the summer, so it's going to give you information about the heat stroke and all the other things that we need to know about, and also it gives you worldwide what everybody is worried about at this moment, so spread of multidrug resistant Acinetobacter bomani, so you can see that many people don't even know that, but when you do the GI effect test, or you do many of the gear map tests, you will see this bacterium that can be an overgrowth in the gut, and see if it's a multidrug resistant, that means we are in trouble, because many people are going to have problems with the guts, and we have this anatoxin and cetro contamination of American fresh water lakes. All of these, you can listen to them. You don't have to read everything. You can just listen to it if you're sleeping or you're lying down. You can listen to it at your leisure. You don't have to worry about anything. So it gives you many other research round apps very quickly. What research is in the pipeline that covers information, functional medicine, everything else that you want to know about, and some references.

Speaker 10  1:49:34
So, did you say this newsletter is in, would be included with somebody's $99 a month, yeah,

Benoit Tano  1:49:41
that's a part of it. That's the newsletter, is part of it,

Speaker 10  1:49:45
a weekly newsletter.

Benoit Tano  1:49:47
It's a weekly newsletter. Yes, is

Speaker 10  1:49:48
that worth the 99 right there?

Benoit Tano  1:49:52
Yeah, it's part of the whole $99 so it's not separate. So these people who subscribe to it, they will have access to this newsletter, other stuff that we have, lessons and stuff I wanted to do lessons separate, but I have, I really think it would be nice for people to learn things, so the lessons I didn't put a lot of price on it, or nothing. So, the lesson that I hear people can always go in there and learn plenty from it.

Speaker 3  1:50:30
Dr. Tano, could I ask you about one of your favorite topics?

Benoit Tano  1:50:35
My favorite topic,

Speaker 3  1:50:37
yeah. How would you teach other practitioners about sublingual allergy treatment, and also, you know, treating and diagnosing allergies.

Benoit Tano  1:50:46
So that's a good question, because that is expensive, actually, because if the practitioners who do functional medicine knew about that, that can make a lot of money, because if you look at the whole country, we do have many very little allergy. We don't have many allergies in the country, so the void is being filled by general practitioners, and functional medicine is actually well positioned to do sublingual immunotherapy or do allergy, and to for me to teach people to do it right, and do all this stuff. I charge a little bit, and so that is the separate conversation than just say, okay, are you going to take classes here? If somebody is interested in doing that, introducing that to their practices, and how we do skin testing, how we do all of that. I can come to the clinic, I teach them how to do it the proper way, and then how to source all the material, how to do.. I mean, what? Who do you talk to? I give you all the information, so you can generate a really significant amount of money. It's like, yeah, we can make easily if you have a population already. It can make plenty of money. Yes, they

Bill Clearfield  1:52:10
work. Can we arrange a day workshop somewhere? Will you, will you teach this

Benoit Tano  1:52:15
well? If we do that, then people have to pay, because I don't want to do it for free.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:21
Well, yeah, of course,

Benoit Tano  1:52:22
yes. If we do a workshop, yeah, I can teach people how to do that. I can show them I have information, a lot of information about it. I think it will be useful for practitioners to be able to incorporate that in their practices, so then they can generate a another stream of income.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:40
Okay, I'll talk to you offline about that. Okay.

Benoit Tano  1:52:44
Yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:46
Alrighty.

Benoit Tano  1:52:46
So, any questions? I mean, I think

Speaker 7  1:52:50
I can. I have the link to the EMR to this AI.

Benoit Tano  1:52:56
Yeah, so I put it in the chat in the beginning. I'll do it again.

Speaker 7  1:53:00
I logged out and login

Benoit Tano  1:53:02
pro med.com

Speaker 7  1:53:05
pro med, okay,

Benoit Tano  1:53:06
the pro med.com

Speaker 7  1:53:10
Thank you.

Benoit Tano  1:53:11
Yeah, also, if you go to Tia Pro university.com then you will be able to find it there as well. So I can do that here, I can show you Theopro University, I university.com and the Teoper university.com gives you a lot of information, so you can see here, for functional medicine people, I made the life very easy. If you go to Scout and you put in what subject do you want to know? Functional medicine. If I put functional medicine

Speaker 7  1:53:47
detox,

Benoit Tano  1:53:49
okay? Functional medicine, okay. Okay, and I will put detox right here. Let's see what tells you. So, when I click on that, then it will give us all the videos that people have created on detox that is out there.

Speaker 7  1:54:08
Tanya University, Taya Pro Taya

Benoit Tano  1:54:14
Pro University. Yeah, so you can see all the videos that people have made on detox, and you can pick one you want, and you can listen to it as you want. It gives you 50 different videos per page. You can see that, so not only YouTube, but Vimeo videos as well. So you can, you can see, and if you want, you want to do, you want to do podcast, so you can put podcast, can see here it says courses, webinars, podcasts, and all they put podcast, and he can put what subject, medicine.

Speaker 7  1:55:00
Oh,

Benoit Tano  1:55:02
go ahead, give me, give me a subject.

Speaker 7  1:55:05
Oh, for the podcast,

Benoit Tano  1:55:06
yeah. Why not? Best podcast, most popular podcast, right?

Speaker 7  1:55:18
Yes,

Benoit Tano  1:55:19
if it gives us anything at all, maybe it would give us some, yeah, yeah, it gave us a lot of information here, so it gave us all the podcasts that are popular, Joe Rogan, maybe I don't know, it gives you all this stuff, this

Speaker 10  1:55:35
seems to be showing you how to do a podcast,

Benoit Tano  1:55:39
this one here, no, it shows you. Oh, yeah, maybe it shows you what. How to do podcasts,

Speaker 7  1:55:49
we can see the on AOS rd.com We will have the.. we can see this again.

Benoit Tano  1:55:59
Which one?

Speaker 7  1:56:00
The this presentation,

Benoit Tano  1:56:03
oh yeah, Dr. CF, you will put it up, so you can see it

Speaker 1  1:56:09
correct.

Benoit Tano  1:56:11
So, here I mean, there's a lot of things that we can see from Te Appoint University. I just gear that towards students, because here we have graduate hub and we have the undergraduate hub, so do you guys know those of you who have kids in school that they can take free courses, so they can take courses that are very cheap to make the general education requirements, so they don't have to spend four years in college and spend 1000s and 1000s of dollars, so they can fulfill at least probably 60s to 70 of the required bachelor's degree credits online in a very short period of time, some of the courses takes only a week to do, and then they get credit for it, so they don't have to repeat that in college, and then they do their residency, because some of the colleges require residency, that means you have to take courses in the actual school, and if you do that, then you can cut short your education by at least two years, so you get your bachelor degree in two years, and here I show people how to do that step by step. What planning? How do you plan that? What companies give you this type of credits, and how you can take those courses, so that would be very useful for children who are students who want to do well, and who are paying zillions of dollars to be universities. Entire promed is here, like I said. You can access the tire proof from here. So Tia Pro Med also, we have a IM here. I put Dr. James School here, and Terapprove Mediverse. You guys, all those of you who are in our Saturday research group, I talk about Terapprove Mediverse over time. So, it's a platform where we have books, we have a lot of information there. It's like a big library. So, the university encompasses many other things that the Tera Pro Med doesn't have, so Terra Pro Med is part of the university.

Speaker 3  1:58:28
It's a nightmare for kids to get into college these days.

Benoit Tano  1:58:36
Yeah, affordability is the problem.

Speaker 7  1:58:38
That's so beautiful, that Hashimoto Theoditis, so you have this with the thyroid peroxidase hormones,

Benoit Tano  1:58:50
yeah, thyro precidice antibodies. Yeah, so the handout, you can do a handout for your patient. I mean, once you subscribe and the handout, you can put your name on it, and they will be just you and your patients.

Speaker 7  1:59:04
Amazing! Wow.

Benoit Tano  1:59:08
Questions for me. I think we covered a lot. Time has gone by really quickly, and I would like to know if you have any questions. I can answer those questions now. You have access to it, you can go there, play with it for a week, and then, yeah, you see

Bill Clearfield  1:59:27
it's really a remarkable Dr. Tano. I mean, I mean, just outstanding. I was, I was, I've been texting back and forth with Dr. Nario, and you know one of my favorite characters, Judge Judy, she's got somebody being a little bit of a wise guy in front of her, she'll say she'll hold up a finger or pinky, actually say on your best day you won't be as smart as I am on my worst day, what I know in this little finger, and I kind of feel that way, on my best day I'll never, I'll never have enough, be able to even get any close, close to what, what you, what you're, what you are, you know, you just, you know, got, got, got going here. This is unbelievable. I mean, this is, you know, just, I mean, I know what they're, what everybody else feels about this, but I mean, this is like, I mean, yeah, I mean, this is, I mean, this is, you know, Nobel Prize stuff. Thank you, thank

Benoit Tano  2:00:25
you,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:25
Dr. Cluffia. I just came back from IFM, and you know, you put this in your, in your, in your pocket. You're, I mean, you're, you're, you're the expert on everything,

Benoit Tano  2:00:35
yeah. In a way, so it gives you all the possibilities to generate stuff and be able to learn on the go, so you don't have to go to places and conferences and anything to learn on your own. Yeah,

Speaker 7  2:00:51
but at the end, maybe they won't use us as doctors. They will use just everyone will get a subscription to this platform and will treat themselves

Benoit Tano  2:01:02
patients that cannot do that, because even though they can learn there, but there's still things that they cannot do on their own.

Speaker 7  2:01:11
Yeah, Mike, what I wanted to ask something. Oh, yeah, I wanted to say something important. One time I spoke with the recruiter, and he told me that it's a platform where doctors can do telemedicine by themselves, and when I, for some, somehow I got connected with the president, or the one that it's the CEO of that platform, and he told me we have every day 50,000 to 75,000 consults,

Benoit Tano  2:01:47
okay,

Speaker 7  2:01:48
and so I just want to say that they just have a platform and the doctors go and work there and they, the doctors usually put the $30 $39 for a consult, and then the patients book with them, but and the doctors pay for their normal practice insurance and everything, and the one that have the platform they bill double, more like maybe $50 for a cancer, so the patient pays a total of $90 to, and it's not through the insurance, so they just own the platform, that's

Benoit Tano  2:02:28
it.

Speaker 7  2:02:30
So I wanted to emphasize how important it is to have a platform where,

Benoit Tano  2:02:37
yeah, so yeah, it's important to have a good platform that people can use, and it's valuable to them. Here, I really think we have a beginner of something big. The thing is, when you subscribe to this, you have capacity of generating courses, right? You generate the courses because I'm not going to be the only one who holds all the information. If you generate your courses, we can put in the marketplace, so you see the marketplace here. You can generate the course, and when it will come under you in the marketplace, so then whatever proceed comes out of it, you share that, or you give us some, and then we'll go from there. That's how we're going to do that.

Speaker 7  2:03:27
How is that? If you want to make a course, then we can do it, and we can give to you the course.

Benoit Tano  2:03:33
You push it to the platform, you put to the marketplace, and it will be because you register for it, then it will be under your name in the marketplace.

Speaker 7  2:03:45
Wow, and this is with promo.com

Benoit Tano  2:03:48
marketplace. So I'm just trying to see how we can help the providers generate also income by being part of a platform, so many times when people have a platform, it's their own proprietary thing. Nobody has a capacity of doing anything, but here I'm trying to share the wealth, so then all of us can enjoy some sort of, yeah, life,

Speaker 7  2:04:21
and people who want to read about this, they have to pay.

Benoit Tano  2:04:27
Yeah, there were people who want to be part of it. Yeah, we have to pay. They have to pay the subscription. Yes. Yep.

Speaker 7  2:04:35
No. If they make a lesson, it's going to be put on the marketplace, and other people buy the course, yeah, yeah,

Benoit Tano  2:04:41
but people would buy that. Yes, so initially I wanted to make the courses very expensive, but I think $7 for a complete hours, of course. It's pretty, pretty cheap. If you go to a firm, you will never get that.

Speaker 7  2:05:14
It is one hour.

Benoit Tano  2:05:17
Many of them are one hour or more. Yep,

Bill Clearfield  2:05:25
you might never need to go to a M again,

Benoit Tano  2:05:28
yeah. And also, so one of the things I'm working on is to try to get this CME accredited, so if I can get all the courses here CME accredited, then when a provider buys a course, if they go through it, then automatically it credits them in the CME, give them their CME, so they have their own CME platform where they can go and fulfill it but I cannot do that unless people start subscribing, because if people subscribe, then I can, because remember, Dr. Clearfield, you know, when people, you want to do the CME, but charge a lot of money for you to give a CME, so I cannot do that until we have people who actually are subscribing to it.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:27
Well, what happened to Dr. Halasa's CME? I

Benoit Tano  2:06:30
don't know, so that's the thing. I don't want to create a CME that would disappear, so if we do it, it has to be the right

Speaker 5  2:06:37
way. You have to do it the right way, the right

Benoit Tano  2:06:39
way, right, for the longer duration,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:43
not the AI CME, right?

Benoit Tano  2:06:46
Right, and we're real CME, so I have some companies I want to contact and see that can give us credit, CME credits for this platform, and then

Bill Clearfield  2:06:57
you know Joseph Krieger from Boston Bio Life.

Benoit Tano  2:07:02
No,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:03
you might, you might want to contact him. He does CME credits, and he does a lot of courses. He, he did Dr. Farshin's CMEs,

Benoit Tano  2:07:13
okay?

Bill Clearfield  2:07:13
And we're probably going to be using him on our next live

Benoit Tano  2:07:18
one, okay?

Bill Clearfield  2:07:19
So I'll get you, I'll get you his contact,

Benoit Tano  2:07:22
that'll be great. Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:07:25
Yeah, he's a pretty good guy. So,

Speaker 7  2:07:26
but is this platform, this platform, if it does, then a medicine can be used like, by the way, the other platform is called Sesame. Sesame,

Benoit Tano  2:07:36
okay, okay, yeah.

Speaker 7  2:07:38
So, Sesame, I just want to say that how important it is to have a good platform, you know. Sesame, they said, okay, you want to do telemedicine, and so the doctor sees the patients, but they get paid 30 $40 an hour, and I want to say we never know, because in the future they might do, they may give the doctors 20% and they can take 80, because I saw Lyft and Uber, they do the same.

Benoit Tano  2:08:08
Yeah,

Speaker 7  2:08:09
so you know, like initially, when people, I mean, it's not good to work for such platforms, because you never create your own business, but

Benoit Tano  2:08:18
correct,

Speaker 7  2:08:19
but because at the end they will control and they will try to get more and less to the people that work

Benoit Tano  2:08:27
great, so here I mean I'm just I'm not a greedy person, so what I want to do is make sure that everybody can share in the wealth, that's why I created the marketplace, so you come up with your idea and you create a course and it's a popular then we all share in it right because the platform has to be fed somehow to be able to function so we get a certain percentage like Amazon does and then the rest is yours do Any other questions for me today?

Speaker 6  2:09:11
Tano, this is the new frontier in medicine you're pioneering.

Benoit Tano  2:09:16
Yeah, hope so. It's

Bill Clearfield  2:09:19
really incredible. It's really unbelievable. It's amazing. Okay, do you

Speaker 6  2:09:26
own it entirely, Dr. Tano? Or is there.. yeah,

Benoit Tano  2:09:30
I created this on my own. I financed it, I did everything on my own. Yes,

Bill Clearfield  2:09:38
unbelievable. Okay, everybody. Thank you all so much. I have to leave. Dr. Nario and Dr. Peterson will be taking over for the rest of the night. I'll get the videos up hopefully sometime tomorrow. And thank you so much. Next week we have Bob, he's on tonight, Groke, I think his name for C 60

Benoit Tano  2:10:04
all

Bill Clearfield  2:10:06
right.

Speaker 15  2:10:08
Yeah, I'm here. Nice presentation. I missed part of it. Sorry, had to leave.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:13
We'll have the video up by the end of the week, okay? So, thank you everybody. I have to go. I will, but you hang out as long as you want. I'll have Dr. Tano and Dr. Peterson the sign off. Okay, Dr. Tano, unbelievable.

Benoit Tano  2:10:33
Thank you, Dr. Cleopia. Thank you for giving this opportunity to show this to our

Bill Clearfield  2:10:39
group. We're going to have you back.

Benoit Tano  2:10:42
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:10:43
Okay. Thank you,

Benoit Tano  2:10:48
Dr. Nao. Are you there?

Speaker 4  2:10:50
Yes. All right.

Benoit Tano  2:10:52
Any questions in anywhere boxes or anything?

Speaker 4  2:10:58
Yeah. So, in the hold on the.. so we have a chat here, and then it's just asking, what about non-medical questions? Is that something that you're..

Benoit Tano  2:11:17
so let's try that. Who's asked that question? Non-medical questions. Let's see, so what non medical question do you want anybody wants to ask

Speaker 4  2:11:27
the war in Iran?

Benoit Tano  2:11:31
Where the

Speaker 4  2:11:32
war in Iran? How's that go? The war

Benoit Tano  2:11:34
in Iran? I don't think it would give you the political. The war in Iran impact impact on medicine. How about that?

Speaker 4  2:11:48
Sure,

Benoit Tano  2:11:52
let's see if it works. I have no idea. Never tried it. Okay, it's giving us something already, I Oh boy, it tests about PTSD. It tests about a lot of stuff, right?

Speaker 4  2:12:13
Okay, so that works. I mean, because you type medicine, would it work if it's just you're just to address

Speaker 11  2:12:23
the request regarding the impact of war conflict in Iran on medicine. It is necessary to analyze this through the lens of medical geopolitics and conflict medicine. While the war in Iran is not a singular current event, but rather a context of regional instability, economic sanctions, and historical conflict, Assad Graham, Iran, Iraq war impacts the medical consequences are profound. The following comprehensive reference details the pathophysiology of conflict-induced medical crisis and the comparative strategies used to manage it. Pathophysiology of conflict-induced medical crisis in a conflict or heavy sanction environment, as seen in Iran, the pathophysiology of the healthcare system involves three primary failures: supply chain disruption, embargoes, and banking restrictions lead to a secondary pharmaceutical famine, where life-saving medications, oncology, rare diseases become unavailable, environmental toxicological trauma, exposure to chemical agents historically. So,

Benoit Tano  2:13:30
wait, you see, so it gave you some information in the context that you gave him, right? So, let's just do the war in Iran and see what it does, maybe they wouldn't give us anything, but maybe. Well, okay, so it's doing something. It does the same thing that it did, so it gives you in context, because it's a medical platform, so it gives you in the context of medicine.

Speaker 4  2:13:56
So it's basically focused on on medical,

Benoit Tano  2:13:59
right? So here it says it

Speaker 11  2:14:06
appears there may be a misunderstanding or a semantic overlap in your request.

Benoit Tano  2:14:11
The

Speaker 11  2:14:12
war in Iran is a political and historical topic rather than a clinical entity or pharmacological agent. However, as Taya Pro Med AI, I will interpret this request through the lens of public health, trauma surgery, and mass casualty medicine.

Benoit Tano  2:14:28
See, that

Speaker 4  2:14:30
yeah, it goes back to medical, it goes

Benoit Tano  2:14:32
back to medical. Say, what to give you medical stuff?

Speaker 4  2:14:36
Right, right. Okay, that makes sense. I mean, it's made for that field, but I think

Benoit Tano  2:14:42
there's a big chat in the chat, but it may give you that information. So, give me a quick thing. So, here there are many ways you can access information. So, let's go to the chat bot and try to access that same information. So, let me put the war in the consequences. Let's say the consequences of the war in Iran, and let's see what it does. There you go, so it gives you a lot of information here again from the perspective of Te-approved Med. We must analyze these consequences through

Speaker 4  2:15:32
medicine

Benoit Tano  2:15:33
of conventional trauma, etc. So it says the same thing here. It doesn't want to give you anything else, and here you can also narrate it, so everything that I did, I tried to narrate it, because many people don't want to read anymore, they want to hear it, the

Speaker 11  2:15:51
geopolitical, social, environmental consequences of conflict in Iran, whether from historical perspectives such as the Iran-Iraq war or theoretical future escalations present a multifaceted public health and socioeconomic crisis, and

Benoit Tano  2:16:07
this one you don't even from the perspective of Taya Pro Med AI, we

Speaker 11  2:16:11
must analyze these consequences through the lenses of conventional trauma, emergency medicine, social determinants of health, and the functional integrative physiology.

Benoit Tano  2:16:20
I've got questions, because it's not going to give us this. It's not a non-medical aspect of stuff, but

Speaker 4  2:16:32
yeah, that's well, anyway. Again, you can enhance on that. I know your brain is running again.

Benoit Tano  2:16:38
You're gonna

Speaker 4  2:16:38
add more stuff into that thing,

Benoit Tano  2:16:41
yeah, anything we can create anything, and then you would probably analyze it, yeah.

Speaker 4  2:16:47
What about this concept of I don't know, I think this is a general question that when you use AI more it turns into you, like, well, meaning you train it, I mean, is this the same with Taya Pro?

Benoit Tano  2:17:03
Not that I know of. It doesn't include any of my information or things that I tell patients in here. Oh, no, no,

Speaker 4  2:17:11
no, not that. But I think I heard of this, that as you now ask your AI, I guess subscription, as you build these questions, it just knows what you're looking for, meaning it's the basically, is this is Taya Pro the same as that?

Speaker 3  2:17:29
I

Benoit Tano  2:17:30
have not actually found that, but what you're saying is, why will CPT is correct, because Chat GPT now knows me, and whatever I put in there, it knows that is me doing it, my computer, it can pick up all my information, everything that I'm doing, it just gets that, so that's what you're talking about here, I don't see that it does that yet,

Speaker 4  2:17:58
because this is basically you, we're talking to you in AI form, right? This is your, your brainchild, basically. This one here, yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:18:07
No, so no, no. It just gets information from everywhere. I'm not using only one modality to do this, so I'm not using only ChatGPT or CRODOC stuff. I use multi modality to do that. Is that baby perplexity, anyway.

Speaker 4  2:18:24
Yeah, okay. But it's all there's so much potential for this, this entire probe that you have, and I could see that I don't even know if in your lifetime you can use all of the options here. No, so many, so

Benoit Tano  2:18:39
many options, I mean, especially clinical, but so many things that can be used here, I mean, look at that, and if we want to leverage every single one of them, boy, we're going to spend our lives use everything here, that's only bad education, so much information on education generation, of course, and you can actually, for instance, be blitz. If you have a book, we can create the blitz of the book, so it gives you how many of you know Blankist. Blanket does similar things, but I have done mine. I call it Blitz, where it gives you a summary of the book, it gives you big takeaways, and they give you everything that you need to know about the book, very short, concise way before you buy or read the book, but these are

Speaker 4  2:19:34
specific books,

Benoit Tano  2:19:36
these are specific books. Yes, not any book, yeah, not any book. Every book that I wrote, I did the.. I did the general thing. I created the bliss of it, like this one. It gives you the layman's guide to integrate immunity. It gives you the.. it gives you that, so you can listen to

Speaker 4  2:20:02
it. Oh. these are only your books that you wrote. These are only

Benoit Tano  2:20:05
my books. Yes, but so if other people, they have a books and they want to do the blitz, we can do that as well,

Speaker 4  2:20:12
right?

Speaker 7  2:20:13
Can I say something here? Like one time I saw Amazon, they said to make the books audio books, so it was something like a blit,

Benoit Tano  2:20:26
yes, no, no, no, no, so Amazon audio, so all my books are on audio, so they go through Audible, and with the Audible you can convert your book, the whole book, into audiobook, so it could be hours and hours, so some of my books are like 20 hours or 30 hours books.

Speaker 7  2:20:48
Oh, somebody converts them word by word into

Benoit Tano  2:20:52
a B AI Amazon has converts your book into audiobook.

Speaker 7  2:20:58
Wow, and word by word,

Benoit Tano  2:21:01
word by word, everything,

Speaker 7  2:21:04
or they said that you do some kind of summary, you know, they don't do word by word, no, no, no,

Benoit Tano  2:21:11
no, no, Amazon AI does the conversion word by word,

Speaker 7  2:21:18
unbelievable.

Benoit Tano  2:21:19
Yeah, so many of these books were already on Amazon audio. They were audible. Yep. Yeah, all of

Speaker 3  2:21:28
people. Dr. Tano, do you think people realize the huge amount of data center and computer power that AI gives us? It's phenomenal. Yeah, and I think at the end of the day, how can we heal our world, and how can we have a better world than when we came in and leave something better for our children, grandchildren, and, you know, future progeny,

Benoit Tano  2:21:55
right? So that's why we cannot be broad, because if you want to use AI broadly, then there's a misguided entry. There's nothing you have to be really concise a little bit and focus on some fields like medicine or economics or whatever you want to do. You have to hone in whatever you want to do. Well, we want to

Speaker 3  2:22:21
run AI instead of like the person letting AI run us.

Benoit Tano  2:22:25
That's right. So, if you give him latitude, he's going to go off the wazoo and give you everything you need to know, and that's an

Speaker 3  2:22:33
understatement. It

Benoit Tano  2:22:34
will not be useful.

Speaker 3  2:22:39
So, it's a learning curve for all of

Benoit Tano  2:22:42
us. Yeah, are there questions? Anybody, anybody else? No, you, you kind

Speaker 4  2:22:48
of.. oh, there, there's more.

Speaker 7  2:22:51
Well, I wanted to ask, Doctor Tano, you're practicing in which state are you?

Benoit Tano  2:22:57
So, I have my clinic in Minneapolis, and I do a lot of online telemedicine with the patients who are in Minneapolis, but I do practice in Connecticut,

Speaker 7  2:23:08
in Connecticut too.

Benoit Tano  2:23:09
Yeah, I do allergy and immunology in Connecticut.

Speaker 7  2:23:14
And do you offer any other classes? One time you said that you might have some classes.

Benoit Tano  2:23:20
Yeah, I do. Some, I do have classes. I currently have nurse practitioners enrolled in the class, and they're enjoying it. It's a six week class that I give them. It's just introduction to functional medicine, because a lot of people want to do functional medicine, especially nurse practitioners who did not get a very good training overall, and they want to beef up a little bit, their knowledge is a very quick introductory already pre-recorded, they go through it, and Fridays we meet and we discuss cases and stuff like that, so the time they finish the six weeks, actually they're very well equipped to do the basic functional medicine,

Speaker 4  2:24:03
and you teach in Dr. James' school,

Benoit Tano  2:24:06
right? Yeah, we also have a PhD program that Dr. James and I have put together, so for 2424 months, like two years, you get a PhD for those of you people who already have a degree that can get the PhD in DSI, DSI, as we call it, Doctor of Sacred Integrated Immunity, and then once they have that, they can see the First Nation Medical Board and see if they can get a license to practice as First Nation Medical Board practitioners. There is a lot of information that they need to have, and Dr. James has plenty of information. Our group on Saturday has a lot of information as well that can help those individuals.

Speaker 4  2:25:02
Yes. so Dr. Tano does not sleep anymore. He's just an

Benoit Tano  2:25:09
understatement, definitely. I have worked so hard, I just hope that I can live long too, to see the fruits of this humongous work, but you know, sleep is a, yeah, I think we try to sleep as much as we can, but I think if you have a baby and you need to deliver the baby, how do you sleep?

Speaker 4  2:25:33
That's why we just talked to Taya Pro, that's the version. Well, I think you hit it on the head right there. When you say that information right now is so vast, really, now the only difference that will be made is the one who will process it. And for us clinicians, we have to make sure we pick the right information that we're going to be using for ourselves and for our patients. And this is where now it's going to work against us if you don't know how to filter good information from not, and this is a good program to start, as we all know. Tire Pro is bringing us the upfront most credible information that we need in terms of credibility. So that's what I noticed, and as medicine grows, I think we can't stop it anymore. We just have to need, we just need to have good credibility out there as clinicians, also. And where we get our information

Benoit Tano  2:26:27
correct, and you know many of these sorts of platforms that try to do diagnosis, treatment, etcetera, they're put together by non-professional, but not put together by computer programmers and all of that, they're not practitioner driven, so they're not practitioners doing it here. I, being a practitioner, and CM patients actually programmed it in such a way that at least it takes into account what professionals, most professional, will see out there, and that's what makes the big difference. I think

Speaker 4  2:27:08
that's right. Okay, another amazing presentation, Dr. Tano. We thank you again for gracing us with your, with your knowledge.

Benoit Tano  2:27:16
Thank you.

Speaker 4  2:27:16
As Dr. Bill said, you'll be back. Thank you. All right, so next week I think we're going to have Dr. Bob Agresca and C 60. I'm a big fan of this, so you guys don't want to miss this one, and he's going to have a lot of things, good things to offer us

Benoit Tano  2:27:37
right

Speaker 15  2:27:38
before we do it next week.

Speaker 4  2:27:40
Awesome, we'll be, we'll be here. We ain't going anywhere.

Speaker 15  2:27:44
Interactive question and answer, too. So, I've got a lot of answers. I just don't have the questions.

Speaker 4  2:27:50
All right, we're going to have some, some games, I guess, that you're going to be involving us with, but that's good. We like interaction. So,

Speaker 3  2:28:00
Bob, can you get Erica to go on with you?

Speaker 15  2:28:04
I can't right now. No, she's tied up. She's got personal family stuff going on, so it's been stressful for her. So, I.. I'd like to.. that would be nice. I'll ask her again

Speaker 3  2:28:17
one day in the future.

Speaker 15  2:28:19
Yeah, one day in the future. Sure, I'm sure she's coming on. I'll come on in the future, and she's very knowledgeable. What biophysiologist, she can answer all the detailed questions that I don't have the skills to do.

Speaker 3  2:28:32
Now, you just put in a lot of time into what you produce.

Speaker 15  2:28:37
Oh, yeah,

Speaker 3  2:28:37
a lot of skill

Speaker 15  2:28:38
like that, like Dr. Tano, it's you know, I'm sure he was putting 14 hour days like me

Benoit Tano  2:28:46
after clinics. I come home and had to work harder.

Speaker 4  2:28:53
Get, get some rest, you guys. We need you, we need, we need you longer in this earth,

Benoit Tano  2:28:59
yeah.

Speaker 4  2:29:00
So don't, don't go down, go down because of hard work. Okay, research. Anybody from the research group who wants to update us?

Benoit Tano  2:29:12
Oh, so Doctor Quinn is Doctor Quinn Ernst, I think he's gone.

Speaker 4  2:29:17
I think so. Do you have updates, Doctor Tano? Yeah, so

Benoit Tano  2:29:21
last weekend, actually, we had a guest from Hawaii, and she does nutritional epigenetics, and now very interesting, she informed us about a lot of things about the food, the toxicity that we have, and how that is having impact on generational impact. I would say, so all the kids and ADHD, autism, how all these mercury is, and all the foods. I did not know that we had mercury in corn syrup, that now she told us that yes, because the way they process it actually has mercury in it, so she is teaching bees to many, many public health students, Africans, other people, enlightening them about all the toxicology or toxicants that we have in our environment, from our point of view, in terms of the hypophycology, we're making a good progress. We're putting together a website where people who want to list their medications, or a traditional medication, or any medication they have, we have a committee that can go through the committee, and then they can put their medication on perfectly. So these are some of the big lines that we have. Also, in terms of education, we have a Dr. James University, we have Dr Dan Newsom, who is also has a program. We're trying to put all these things together, my programs and everything that we have trying to put together, so then the practitioner, the traditional First Nation practitioners have access to it, and they can be certified, because many people, they want to practice as a native practitioner, but they have no clue about native medicine, so we felt that it would be a good idea for them to have a grasp, at least the basics of traditional American Indian medicine before they can claim that they're part of the group, so these courses, Dr. James and Dr. Dan Newsome have those courses that everybody can take, and they will make them proficient in that area, so these are some of the big lines that we had, of course, our molecules and everything else is continue, will continue to follow that, and making sure that we can make things come to fruition.

Speaker 4  2:32:15
Amazing, I mean, I remember this research group, just like five people are going here now, you're just growing and growing in tremendous amounts, and all the geniuses are here. So, if anybody wants to join, I guess the research group every Saturday, I get what, nine in the morning, is that we do 10?

Benoit Tano  2:32:33
Yeah, no, 1212, noon

Speaker 3  2:32:36
Eastern Standard Time.

Speaker 4  2:32:39
Oh, Eastern Standard Time, 10 o'clock

Benoit Tano  2:32:42
noon, yeah, Eastern time.

Speaker 4  2:32:44
Okay, yeah. If anybody's interested, yeah, just contact us. We'll send you the link over there, and join the Brain Trust. That's just an amazing group. Alright, anything else you guys do you want to put in there before we fly away to the sunset, alright? I guess that's it. So, thank you again. So, we'll see you again next week. Thank you for attending. Bring a friend, yeah, and we'll grow and grow as we move forward. So, we have good stuff to offer everybody, and see you next week. Thank you again, Dr. Tano.

Benoit Tano  2:33:25
Thank you, thank you, everybody. Excellent class.

Unknown Speaker  2:33:29
Right.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai