Speaker 1  00:27
You there? Yeah, yep, I'm here. You already I was in Downward Dog. Yeah, so I don't know how to control the slides, though. How that will go.

Bill Clearfield  00:40
What you do is you share your screen, and then you should be able to control it.

Speaker 1  00:47
Okay, so share my screen on a different screen than this one, right?

Bill Clearfield  00:50
Well, there should be at the bottom there. It'll say, there should be right in the center. It should have Share, share,

Speaker 1  00:56
okay, okay, I've clicked it and it's, I guess, deciding hold Shift to select

Unknown Speaker  01:05
two desktops.

Speaker 2  01:11
That's two. I guess it's desktop three. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  01:21
okay, there should be a button right in the center. It says, share.

Speaker 1  01:26
Yeah, I see it, but I've got three screens, so I'm trying to make sure I'm putting the right one on, and then making it like I was.

Bill Clearfield  01:33
I was never that important.

Speaker 1  01:34
So to have three screens, yeah, I don't know either that or I'm just my brain is so scattered I've got to have three screens.

Bill Clearfield  01:46
We may be having another, another guest,

Unknown Speaker  01:51
oh, with Dr Tano.

Bill Clearfield  01:52
With that, with Dr Tanno. Yeah, this just happened this morning.

Unknown Speaker  01:56
So, okay, well, he had mentioned it last week.

Bill Clearfield  02:00
Yeah. So I got somebody, I have a very special guest, who said she would be here, but she's pretty busy, so I don't know. We'll see okay.

Speaker 1  02:11
I think I okay share. I think I've got it open system setting, louder, open system settings. I've got to allow it somehow. Well, that sounds exciting to have somebody special, yeah.

Speaker 3  02:31
So one of my teachers, actually. So one of your teachers, one of my teachers, now she must be super duper smart, way smarter than me

Speaker 1  02:44
says zoom may not be able to record the contents of your screen until it's quit. Okay?

Unknown Speaker  02:50
Well, we record it. You don't have to worry about that. So,

Speaker 1  03:00
is it, did it share? Or what did I do wrong? It would come up, right? If I it should come up. Yeah, all right, one more time. So it's desktop three, and then I hit Share,

Bill Clearfield  03:19
just the four sisters. I see, I see the four sisters.

Speaker 1  03:24
Okay, okay, so then I suppose you're going to bypass this in private Windows picker and directly access your screen and audios, okay, wow,

Bill Clearfield  03:36
oh, we got, we got some heavy hitters here tonight. It's my my very special guest, other than doctor you and you and Doctor Tanner, who are also always special. But we got Dr Bergson on, okay, who's my, one of my mentors, and and Carol Peterson also. So we got some pretty, pretty, pretty good, pretty good, hefty hitters here. So it'd be

Speaker 1  04:02
good to hear from them on what they think about all of this.

Benoit Tano  04:06
I know Dr Bergson. I think we did a presentation I did for him once. Dr Bergson, right.

Unknown Speaker  04:15
I think she's muted. I think you're muted.

Speaker 4  04:20
Hi there. How are you doing? Very good. It's nice to see you. You're looking so well, nice. Well too. Oh, thank you. Thank you. It's nice to be here. William invited me because we went west coast swing dancing when we were at a 4m nobody

Unknown Speaker  04:42
named William. Nobody named William.

Benoit Tano  04:44
Here, I don't remember your name being Devaki,

Speaker 4  04:48
David key. David key, right, exactly. Good for you. Thank you. So how do you pronounce it? Benoit, Ben, oh, Benoit.

Unknown Speaker  05:05
Classy. Way

Unknown Speaker  05:06
classy. That boy, that soft accent, he's got that.

Bill Clearfield  05:11
He's got that Minnesota accent. That's, you know, we always kid him about it.

Unknown Speaker  05:15
I thought it was a southern drawl, but I guess all right,

Bill Clearfield  05:20
from southern Minnesota. Okay, so usually, so Lindsey and well, Carol, you've been here. We usually start off with Dr Nario. Dr narios, sort of my right hand man. He's been taking Dr Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship. So he gives us a brief Tip of the Week, so the rest of us don't have to go take it. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to aggregate all of the videos that we that we've done since you started this, and we'll have a whole course on our own,

Speaker 5  05:57
a whole course. I don't think that's going to be that expensive.

Bill Clearfield  06:01
But, sure, well, we can. We can take each topic and just just expand

Unknown Speaker  06:05
on it. So good idea. Let's make money out of it.

Unknown Speaker  06:09
Oh, that's a whole other good idea.

Bill Clearfield  06:11
Another idea. So in the while, while we're waiting so, so Lindsay, you want to tell everybody about your your what you have coming up next week?

Speaker 4  06:20
Oh, don't say it's next week. It's about 10 days away. Give me a few more days. Well, that's next week. Is Oh, my God. So in fact, if Carol's on, I don't see Carol, though she's here, can you see her? I don't see Yeah, I see her. No. Why am I not? Why am I not seeing her? Hi, Carol, not seeing her,

Speaker 2  06:45
darn it. Hi, Lindsay, maybe I pop up.

Speaker 4  06:48
Oh, there you are. There you are okay. Carol, nice to see you.

Unknown Speaker  06:53
Nice to see you too.

Speaker 4  06:55
So David Brownstein and myself are co sponsoring a course called everything breast cancer, and I think we need to have our heads examined. It's been a big undertaking, and so many of my patients are so browbeat by their oncologists and radiologists, it's, I mean, they literally take their risks and tell them, if you take hormones, you're going to die. End of story. I've had two patients tell me that this week, it's so crazy, and we're trying to move the needle. We're really trying to help move the needle. So it's 20 hours online of CMEs, category one for MDS, nurse practitioners, naturopaths and pharmacists. And we've got an incredible group of experts, including Carol, who's fantastic. So it's nice to see Carol here, and it's pretty exciting, and we've all been working quite, quite diligently on it, and we hope that we help move the needle.

Speaker 3  07:59
That's great. I'm sure you always do so

Speaker 4  08:04
thank you. I hope so. This has been a little bit rougher than most audiences, because everybody's so scared to death of standard of care and of

Speaker 1  08:14
cancer scared. There's no more vulnerable patient, right than a cancer patient I know.

Speaker 4  08:21
And they keep telling they literally, I have patients that if they do radiation, they'll get a 3% benefit of life, and it'll be on their left side, which, of course, if they live long enough, makes them at risk of heart valve cancer. And they'll, they'll literally take their hands and say, if you don't do this, you're going to die. And I hear the fact I am in a Mahjong club, and one of the women had breast cancer 10 years ago, and I've been sharing what we're doing, and she really had a low grade, and her bones are disintegrating. She looks like you could just blow her across the room, lovely, lovely woman, and the same exact thing, she asked her gynecologist, who took her wrists in her hands and said, do not do hormones. You're going to instantly die. That's what she said. It's like the craziest thing. It's so sad,

Unknown Speaker  09:17
very disturbing. We heard.

Bill Clearfield  09:18
We've heard it all early, early on in my way back when in the land far away called Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, when, when we first got a heart surgeon at our hospital. This, this poor guy had a heart attack in the middle of the night and walked four miles in December in Northeast Pennsylvania to the hospital, and I was standing there that the cardiologist stood over him and said, You have to have bypass surgery or you're going to die. And pointed right at him. And he the guy who was crying, and he's looking at me, and, you know, what am I? I was a family doctor. I don't what do I know? I going to say anything, right? So, so he goes and has it done. They discharged him. I remember it was a Friday morning. They discharged him at 830 in the morning. I got a call from the cardiologist at noon. Well, we don't know what happened. Joe went home, opened his front door and keeled over and died, just like that, huh? Just like that. But I guess that was acceptable. I don't know. So I always remember that so didn't have anything to do with hormones,

Speaker 4  10:24
but, but it's the same concept, same concept, right? Thank you for sharing.

Speaker 1  10:30
Yeah. So that's the most disturbing part of all of this is, is people going through very, very scary times and getting bullied into doing something that's not necessarily good for them and actually make them sicker, drive them towards suffering and death.

Bill Clearfield  10:49
Yeah. So, so just before we're going to have Doctor, Doctor Nario, you got your tip of the week. But first I want to let you know, those of you that are local here in Reno at the Atlantis this Saturday, from 7am to 4pm there is a a conference by the north the Northern Nevada endocrinology society called endocrinology for non endocrinologists. They did not invite me to speak, but I'm going to, I'm going to be there in the in the crowd, heckling. So anybody who's local, who's it was only, I think it cost, it was only $46 and I think there's some CME credits. So, and where is that? At the Atlantis.

Speaker 1  11:29
Okay, yeah, yeah, I should be able to do that.

Bill Clearfield  11:34
Eight. At seven o'clock is introduction. Eight o'clock, there's a lecture on thyroid. I'm wondering, Lindsay, if we're going to hear anything about iodine. I doubt it. I doubt it

Speaker 1  11:45
so only to avoid it, if you have Hashimotos, right. Lectured to me, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  11:56
Dr Nario proceed.

Speaker 5  12:01
All right. Well, that, I'll let you get the people in. I'm clicking on all that. I will. I will. All right, so let's start. So I think this is actually a good topic, so I want to touch up on so in the in the fellowship, we touch up on burlanotite, or PT, one for one. So I'm sure you guys are pretty familiar with this, because this is the female libido drug, or Felicity, as they call it, or is it thing you consider after Sodano fails. So just to give you a brief intro about this synthetic melanocortin receptor agonist is what's the function of PT 141, and it's derived from melanotin two, so that's the bigger peptide, and they have isolated the smaller part, so we don't have the, I mean, the worst, the bad skin darkness when we use PT, one for one. So it works centrally in the brain, not peripherally, and acts on the receptor MC four. So this is the melanocortin four in the hypothalamus. So it does increase dopamine signaling, which is equals to sexual motivation and reward and modulate sympathetic tone and enhances sexual desire and arousal initiation. But the newer data, so this is what we're going to be getting today suggests we've been thinking about this drug way too narrowly. So let's start with the first study. It's actually a combination therapy. So initially they don't recommend for you to use PT one for one with PDE five inhibitors. The reason for that is because of the risk of priapism. So for the ones that doesn't know, erections lasting longer than four hours, you don't want that. I know men like, Wow, that's good. You don't want that. So now the newer trials that are running. So this is in the Journal of virology. 2004 are looking at PT, 141141, combined with PDE five inhibitors in men who doesn't respond to PDE five alone. And this makes perfect sense, if you think about it, PDE five affects peripheral nitric oxide vascular PD, 141 acts on the central melanocortin and dopamine release. So now we're treating the brain and of course, the downstairs, which Shocking, I know both do matter. Historically, we've had data suggesting meaningful response rates in soddenable non responders. So clinically dishes. PT, 141 from alternative therapy to adjunctive or salvage therapy. Another one study number two would be FDA only approved by Lisa for women who are hype with hypoactive sexual desire disorder, and they should be pre menopausal, so you can't use it on post menopausal women, nowhere data. So a Journal of Sexual Medicine 2024 confirmed that many of us are already seeing clinically and why it should be used in men. So now they're doing studies on men, but we, I mean, in our integrative field, we're already doing this, but now they're actually going into the real motions of research. So PT, one for one, as I mentioned, enhances central arousal pathways, increases dopaminergic signaling and maybe even improve genital blood flow. So it's not purely Central, it's integrative. And here's the key insight, some men label as rectal dysfunction. Don't actually have a vascular problem. It's really a motivational problem. They can perform. They're just not interested, which means we've been treating a brain issue with a blood flow drug and then wondering why it doesn't work. Third study. So this is where it gets interesting. The melanocortin system regulates appetite, energy balance, reward and sexual behavior. PT, 141 is now being explored alongside metabolic therapies, including GLP one pathways. So now we're looking at a shared biology between hunger, dopamine and libido, which raises the bigger question, low libido in some patients, a reward system dysfunction, not just hormonal, not just vascular, but also neuro, metabolic possible. So the update framework is PT 141 is not just a libido drug or a backup option. It's a central arousal modulator, even a combination therapy enhancer and possibly a bridge between sexual and metabolic health, which means the future of Sexual Medicine may look less like urology and look it looks like more of neuroscience if you look at it in a different perspective. So that's our leak of the week.

Unknown Speaker  16:26
All right, terrific.

Unknown Speaker  16:29
So I'm sure you're using that, Dr

Bill Clearfield  16:30
Bill, right? Well, I've been using that for 20 you know, I've been using these peptides for 20 years, and now, all of a sudden, all of a sudden, they're the hot people coming. You ever hear of BPC 157, nope, never. Don't know anything about it.

Speaker 5  16:45
Well, you have to thank our non medical colleagues that are promoting peptides nowadays.

Bill Clearfield  16:50
Yeah. Well, you know that the problem is they, you know, they can say whatever they want, and there's no consequence, right? Well, true, our non medical colleagues, the ones you're thinking about, you know, we've also said things like, there's no studies, and there's, there's no reason anybody should ever use pellets, ever for any, any reason, right? And there's no studies on it. So, and I happen to be in the room with Rebecca Glaser at the at the moment, you know, you know, you know who she is, right? So, yeah,

Speaker 4  17:22
she's gonna be speaking at our conference.

Bill Clearfield  17:25
So I met her last summer. I love her work, yeah, I and she was like, just a regular person. She wasn't like anybody important, like, you know, like Dr Nario or wish or Carol Peterson. She was like a regular person, yeah? So yeah, I had a, I had a, I had an abstract at the androgen society last summer in San Francisco, which I didn't know was, they gave me five minutes, and I stretched it to seven.

Unknown Speaker  17:52
Oh, your band.

Bill Clearfield  17:55
Yeah, I don't know. I didn't hear from your band now, but unfortunately, during Lindsay's online conference. I'll be at ammg live so, and I know Dr Nario next week here at a 4m Correct?

Speaker 5  18:09
Yep. So, yeah, I can't tackle with you. You could Atlantis conference. You could.

Bill Clearfield  18:16
No, you won't be here for the Atlanta Yeah, that's too bad.

Unknown Speaker  18:20
We'll be lecturing this week in April.

Bill Clearfield  18:23
Yeah, that's too bad. The last time, last time we went to one of those, it was at the Grand Sierra. Those are not Reno. That's another one of the big casinos here. It was a integrative dermatology for that one. And so the speakers was talking about, I think it was melanoma, and it's linked to vitamin D. And he says, he said something to point, well, you need high vitamin D levels, maybe 1000 to 2000 units. That sounds about right. And we had just, we had just been drummed out of the AOA for being non scientific, you know, we, we figure it out to, you know, to the to the molecule, how much is the right amount? With the formulas we have us, they throw it so they're getting closer.

Unknown Speaker  19:09
As you can see, they're inching

Bill Clearfield  19:10
their way through it. They're inching their way forward, okay, speaking of inching our way forward, I know so. So we, those of you came in late, we have some very special guests. We have Lindsay Bergson, who's one of my mentors, of course, Dr Tanno, who's everybody's mentor, and Carol Peterson, three, three leading lights in, you know, the the female hormone world. And our elite speaker tonight is Jeanette Serna, who's not spoken for us yet, and she's a little nervous, but I think she'll be going to be just fine, not nervous, good, okay. And she's an advanced practice clinician dedicated to integrative biomedical science with principles of functional medicine. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Cellular and Developmental Biology and nursing, a Master's of Science in Nursing and an advanced fellowship in anti aging and functional regenerative medicine through a for M she also has a master's degree in metabolic and nutritional medicine. She began her career in pediatric neurology, God bless you, and intensive care, before discovering the transformative potential of functional medicine. In 2015 she founded hormone harmony in Houston, Texas. She was the first nurse practitioner to open a practice exclusively dedicated to functional and regenerative medicine. She's now in Reno, Nevada. She has Serna personalized care, where her clinical expertise spans hormone optimization, metabolic restoration and the treatment of biotoxin related illnesses. She's recognized for evidence based compassion approach and her commitment to advancing the practice and education of functional medicine. As far as Dr Chano, I you know those of us, I think we all know who he is, so we're gonna let you introduce yourself when you come on. Dr Tano, okay,

Unknown Speaker  21:07
you're muted,

Unknown Speaker  21:09
yeah, I say all right, if we read Dr

Bill Clearfield  21:13
Tanner's credentials, we're going to be here till midnight.

Benoit Tano  21:16
So, okay, well, not as long as Dr Clearfield, but yeah,

Bill Clearfield  21:25
you know me. I'm just, I just pick up the pieces. That's all. Okay. Nurse Practitioner, Serna, I made the mistake of calling her doc. She's a doctor in my, my view, anyway, so,

Benoit Tano  21:37
so dr, dr Clearfield, can I say something before Janet goes. So at one of the meetings here, there were some presentations on hormones and potential side effects and everything else. So it happened that many people are doing estrogen replacement these days, and I'm probably one of the dissenting voices to say that estrogen replacement is overrated. Maybe we should be careful trying to give women extra dial. And there was a heated argument, and that heated argument led to us thinking that we should have a round table and talk about estrogen replacement, of hormone replacement, that led to this show that we're going to present today. So I'm really glad that Dr Peterson, Dr Berson, MP Serna, myself and the whole audience is here today for us to have this round table discussion to see what what everybody is thinking, and then we'll go from there. So that's what I wanted to put in before as a prelude to what we're going to talk about.

Bill Clearfield  23:07
So we're going to all gang up on you. Dr Tanner, is that what it is?

Speaker 1  23:10
Well, yeah, maybe I'm on his side. I agree with you. I don't normally have to give many postmenopausal women estrogen, okay, because they can usually make it themselves through the adrenal glands and, you know, the conversion of estrone. So we

Benoit Tano  23:26
will be two of us, everybody else now, everybody else who says they want to do so. We have a pro and cons. We have a pro group, which will be a group of people who say we have to do it, like Dr zhidi. I mean, I think if she's here today, and we have ourselves who believe maybe we should not do we should be more careful giving women. You know,

Speaker 1  23:52
when I was going through the a 4m program, we can't see you.

Unknown Speaker  23:57
Why can't I see you? Who's speaking?

Unknown Speaker  23:59
I think it's the way you have your settings

Unknown Speaker  24:03
who's want

Unknown Speaker  24:05
to see be in your settings.

Benoit Tano  24:12
The other way you had it. Dr Bergson, better.

Speaker 4  24:17
That should be better. Yeah, I still don't see. Okay, I don't want to bother you with it,

Speaker 1  24:23
but I'd love to see you put your cursor over the picture of whoever you're seeing, and then there should be three dots at the top right, and that should

Unknown Speaker  24:37
settings. Here's my steps, okay, should be

Unknown Speaker  24:40
in your settings. How you view it you can Okay,

Bill Clearfield  24:44
thank you. Okay, so, so convince us. No go.

Speaker 1  24:49
Well, I didn't plan this to be a convincing argument, but I think it'll happen anyway, and I appreciate Dr Tano explaining what create, what caused us to start putting this together. And so my goal was to, just like, go back to the real basics of of the estrogens and who they are and what they do, and then we can extrapolate on that, see what people have interpreted through it. So so I guess you're looking at my first slide, right? Yeah. So that's my parents four girls. So that's my three sisters and me, and then we have three brothers too. So the big Catholic Spanish family. But so when I was in the a 4m program, they harped on the three sisters. You know, I want you to knee three. And then it was only recently that I heard from Dr Smith, Pamela Smith, that there was a Fourth sister, a fourth estrogen, but it was discovered quite a long time ago, so I'm not sure why it wasn't ever part of the program.

Benoit Tano  25:56
I did a presentation at a forum once, and I brought a stroll to that presentation. So I don't know where everybody was, so the original person and I did a lengthy presentation showing what the virgins are doing to create a birth control pill based on the draw and all of that. So I don't know how people got me from there?

Speaker 1  26:20
But, well, I mean, I started the program in oh nine, yeah. So that was, you know, and I been kind of out of it for the most part since about 17 or 18. So they may have changed. It was a while ago, so I guess I just hit the change slide and I'll change on me. So the first estrogen in of the Sisters is e1 which is Estrone, and it's a ketone with one hydroxyl group. And I just think that this important to understand this part of what that that hormone is, because it affects how it acts in the receptor site. So in the upper left, I put in the, you know, the basic structure of a ketone, so that you can see it in this pretty complex sketch of what it of a hormone. And so you can see that it has only one hydroxyl group, a phenolic hydroxyl group down on the left, okay. And so this is where they get their names from. And I don't know if everybody understands that, but I thought it was interesting. So then e2 is Estrone dial, so you can see again, it's got two hydroxyl groups, one on the left and one on the right in the in the sketch, to kind of an easier way to remember them too. So it's an alcohol with two hydroxyl groups, and then e3 is a Estrone. So it's an alcohol with three hydroxyl groups, you can see the 123, and then the fourth sister is Estrone, which I have only heard about recently. And it's got, you know, tetra got four hydroxyl groups. You can see that on the slide. So the hydroxyl groups of the estrones determine their potency and function. You can see Estrone has one, Estrone has two, Estrone has three, and Estrone has four, and these are the groups that interact with the Estrone receptors, er alpha and er beta and the GP, er, and it's in particular, it's the phenolic hydroxyl group that interacts with the receptor sites You know and regulate certain you know, physiological processes. And so I found a cute rendition of the two receptor sites with the goal of showing you how hard it is to properly, you know, interact with these receptor sites to get, you know, the desired outcome. So the three dimensional configuration of each one of those hormones interacting with these receptor sites. You know, it's a very delicate situation. It's very easy to not get the reaction that you want from these receptor sites. It's a very we used to call it a lock and key and a, 4m so then I, as an example of the that is the as the Estrone binds to its receptor, you can see the Estrone up on the left, and then the very complex receptor site. The receptor undergoes a conformational change and translocates to the uterus. Uterus, the nucleus at where it done, rises and binds to specific DNA sequences known as hormone response elements. So this whole mechanism is goes towards, you know, driving gene transcription. So it's a very powerful interaction. And so the reason why I bring all of this up, not only is to, you know, help it make it easy to remember the names of these three hormones, but also to show you how the shape, the three dimensional shape of these is so powerful as to what kind of, you know, the effect of it. And so, as an example of the the synthetic ones that are, you know, created by pharmaceutical companies, you know as the very famous premiere, which has, you know, horse hormones in it, and they use conjugated estrogens, and there's estriol, different kinds, and you can see down on the phenolic Hydroxyl group, down on the left, you know, that's a much different interactive part of the molecule that is going to the receptor sites. And then conjugated estrogens are not the same thing as estrogen conjugates, which I think people pretty easily

Speaker 1  31:09
get mixed up. And you know, the pharmaceutical companies use it as an argument to show that they're the same thing or that they're safe. So conjugated estrogens are more stable in the body and are therefore harder to metabolize and excrete, and that's one of the reasons why they increase the risk of breast cancer and now endometrial cancers, because, as I'll show you, how they interact with the receptor site that is more proliferative, and then with them not being able to get metabolized and excreting, It keeps driving proliferation, which increases the risk of these, specifically, these two cancers. Whoops, I read it all, and then estrogens are endogenous metabolites of estrogens that can be reconverted back to estrogens. I say they serve as recirculating reservoir for estrogen which, you know, Dr Towne, this is one of the reasons why I don't think it's always necessary to give women estrogen when they're post menopausal, because they can still make you know, the Estrone will allow it to serve as a circulating reservoir. So estrogen receptors act in the cell nucleus, regulating transcription of specific target genes by bond binding with associated DNA regulatory sequences, and both are expressed in the cardiovascular system and the central nervous system, so the the Estrogens binding with the receptors affecting DNA expression. They both express in the cardiovascular and central nervous system. But then between comparing that er alpha and the ER beta, the ER alpha is the one that's defective in the very rare condition of estrogen insensitive syndrome, but it's mainly this receptor site is mainly in the mammary glands, the uterus, the ovary, fecal cells, the bone, testes and epididymis, the stroma of the prostate, liver and adipose tissue, and it results In enhanced proliferation of the uterus and the breast, which is why, if it's over stimulated without, you know, the beta receptor balancing it out, it can increase the risk for cancers for hyper proliferation. So the estrogen receptor beta is mainly present in the epithelium of the prostate, the bladder, granulosa cells of the ovary, colon, adipose tissue and immune system, and it has a more profound on the CNS and the immune system than the cardiovascular system. So like overstimulation of the ER alpha can increase the risk of clotting also, but the ER beta does not have as strong of an effect in the cardiovascular system as compared to the estrogen receptor alpha. So Estrone was the first steroid hormone to be discovered. It was discovered in 1929 it's synthesized from cholesterol and the gonads, the adrenal glands and the adipose tissue. It's an agonist of both the ER alpha and the ER beta, estrogen receptor alpha and estrogen receptor beta, and it does not accumulate in the target system, which is another reason why I don't always prescribe estrogen for post menopausal women, because Estrone is not, you know, does not accumulate, and that's the primary hormone of post menopause. It's poorly bounded, SHBG, so again, it's excrete, and more easily, sorry, I put the question mark there. I meant to look back and double check that that was the only way that it was excrete it whether it's but so it must also be excrete it through the liver, because enterohepatic recirculation delays the excrete of Estrone and other Estrogens, which is one of the reasons why we try to maximize the the function of the intestinal system and excrete so that these hormones don't recirculate. And so Estrone, in high levels, is associated with frailty, vte, stroke and cancers. And so the Premarin that's high and Estrone

Speaker 1  35:39
increases, those are the risks that I miss. Bill that misspelled that one word there. Estradiol was identified in 1935 after e1 and e3 were discovered. It's also synthesized from cholesterol as a conversion from testosterone or Estrone. So again, that's another reason why we don't always need to give some post menopausal woman Estradiol, because they can convert it from testosterone or Estrone, both of which come from the adrenal glands after menopause, Estradiol is, as you probably already know, responsible for The secondary sex characteristics in women, including the widening of hips and fat distribution. You know, you know more about, you know, I'm sure you know the other rest of the sex characteristics in women. So I didn't put them all there, but it begins in puberty, and it will eventually close the epithelium discs, you know, at the end of puberty, just like testosterone does for men. So the Estradiol maintains oocytes. It enhances the growth of reproductive organs. It's produced in premenopausal women by the ovarian follicles, and it triggers the LH surge and ovulation, and then with progesterone. It works with progesterone to prepare the endometrial for implantation declines after menopause. When it comes from, sorry, it declines after menopause. And then I didn't write that sentence properly. But we a women, can still get it derived through the adrenal glands, VTE, Estrone, or from adipose tissue via Estrone conversion. So I didn't write that sentence very well, but post menopausal, the adrenal glands and adipose tissue, right? So the adrenal glands will make either testosterone or Estrone, and then that could be derived to Estradiol, or the adipose tissue can create Estrone, and then that could be converted to Estradiol in men, it's produced in the Leydig cells and Sertoli cells and pubertal men, sorry, pubertal boys and in men, and I didn't keep going down that trail of how important estrogen is to men and boys, but I thought I'd just mention it. So then e3 is estriol. It was discovered in 1930s in 1930 we have very high levels in pregnancy, and it's Excreted very quickly in urine. So it's quite difficult to measure to see what you know, what levels a woman has, or man, for that matter, but a woman has in their body. It's the end product of e1 and e2 which is another reason why it's so safe, because it doesn't reconverted back to Estrone or Estradiol, and it has a preferred affinity to the estrogen receptor beta and so estriol. It's crazy. It's not available in any manufactured forms because it can't be patented, but the and there's no evidence of toxicity. You probably have heard about Wyeth pharmaceuticals petitioned in the FDA to make compounding e3 illegal. They just don't want this stuff available to people and it can, you know, inhibit the proliferation caused by the estrogen receptor receptor Alpha Estriol I treat. I use it to treat vaginal atrophy, atrophy and subsequent UTI's, and it can also be used for vasomotor symptoms of perimenopause and menopausal women, particularly those with breast cancer, who are, you know, more concerned with using Estradiol, which has a higher affinity of the estrogen receptor alpha and the proliferation that comes from that Estriol protects skin from aging by improving collagen and elastin structure and increasing hyaluronic acid. So when, like other prescribers, add Estriol, you know, to Estradiol and a cream, you know, the biased I don't usually, I don't really ever do that. I give them Estriol. I give them e3 for either vaginal atrophy, if that's what's going on, until their Estradiol levels, the other levels pick up. And then I encourage them to use Estriol on their faces, because it's quite remarkable what a difference it can make on, you know, the age consequences of hormonal depletion on a woman's face. If you want to make a patient happy, give them a stroma, encourage them to put it on their face, and you can get it compounded. But Emerita has a product that you can get from fullscript.

Speaker 1  40:32
That's what I encourage them to use. I actually have it here. If you want to see it, I think it's this camera. Can you focus it? So that's how I give encourage women on it's not focusing very well. Estriol, e3 so then the fourth one, as the other physician, who I can't see, was talking about, maybe Dr tan was talking about this part. So e4 estetrol was discovered in 1965 in Stockholm. By this guy's name, I can't pronounce it's produced in the liver, fetal liver during early pregnancy, and I don't think they completely understand how it's working. But the placenta is involved in the production of e4 and this is the only place e4 is made that we know of. So it's certainly not bioidentical to a man and but it's as demonstrated to be as effective as ethanol Estradiol as an oral contraceptive, but without the adverse side effects. So why we're using the other forms of birth control, oral birth control, I'm not really sure, but the FDA approved in 2021 using e4 with a progestin, is a product called Nextstellis. I've never prescribed it, though. I don't. I don't prescribe much of birth control pills, but So here, I'm sure you've seen this a million times, but I just wanted to remind you, because this is the direction we're going in. Is the steroidal pathway of, you know, cholesterol, to the steroids. So up at the top left, you can see that it all starts from cholesterol, and it's actually LDL, cholesterol. And so I guess at this point of the talk, what I'm going to sort of AIM us towards is how I present this information to a patient to help them understand it at, you know, at their level, so that they have a format of where I'm functioning from. And so when I show this to I don't show this complicated of a slide to them, but I make a point of pointing out that it's LDL cholesterol that we get all of these hormones from. And you know, statins, of course, interfere with that conversion to cholesterol to Pregnenolone and the than the rest of so if you somebody takes statins, they're they're at risk of having a decreased production of all of the down products from it. So cholesterol at the top, you know, the first hormone that's created is Pregnenolone, and I call that grandma. It just, I make personalities out of the hormones. I think it really helps patients understand

Speaker 1  43:27
what's going on, and so we don't have to keep looking at all of these things. You can see the main products. I'll just show you how I so I take out a piece of paper and I actually draw these words in front of them like so I don't hand them this because I don't think that it absorbs. But I actually start with like, this is a Steroidal family. And, you know, would give I give them a moment to think about that, because they think steroids. This is a steroid, you know, they think about the steroids they get from their practitioner for some excessive inflammation. And I say, yeah, all your sex hormones and are steroids. So they're not an unfriendly they're not a, you know, they're not a dangerous drug. And so it starts from LDL cholesterol, and then I talk about the whole statin connection. And the first hormone is from LDL cholesterol, is Pregnenolone. And I'm making it very simple, there's a lot of like you can see from the other picture, you we know there's a lot of other derivations and stealing from hormones, but this is a structure I want to put in their minds, you know. So the first hormone is Pregnenolone. I call her grandma, and then I separate the Catabolic and the anabolic sex hormones so that they can understand that the goal is to balance the two, Catabolic and the anabolic and because I think that a lot of patients are focused on getting, you know, anabolic steroids, because they want to be lean and mean and have strong bones, but we need to also have Catabolic hormones, or increases our risk of cancers, right? Hyperproliferation. We need to have stuff die off. And so to the left is the Catabolic hormone. So I talk about progesterone, and I'll mention how soothing it is, especially to women. You know, it's myelinating. I say so. I'll also say things like, so if a person is deficient and Pregnenolone, and I tell them kind of what that person looks like, you know, it's a person that tends to be quite It feels very unstable. They're really very uncomfortable in their bodies. And then progestin, a person without a woman without enough progestin, feels like they have they're like a raw nerve. And I get a lot of nods, you know, because that's exactly how they feel when their progestin levels are low. And, you know, I say it's actually myelinating. It actually coats the, you know, insulates the nerve, the nerves of the central nervous system. So there's really a physiological reason for how they feel. And then I say that, you know, especially in women, because my patients are women, and you get cortisol from progestin. And so if you've got a lot of stress, you know, talk about how you can steal a progestin. And I say that basically, I say, like, basically every woman walking down the street is deficient in progesterone because they're chronically stressed, and their cortisol is chronically stealing quite readily from progestin. And so progestin is a lot of where I start is supplementing that it can really make people feel very comfortable and be safer, because it it Counteracts the anabolic proliferation from the other hormones. So on the other side, in the anabolic side, I talk about, you know, and I wrote quickly to you right in here, but like so you've got the four basic anabolic hormones that are part of therapeutic care. So talking about DHEA, I call DHEA the supportive uncle, because he is anabolic, so he's kind of a little bit more male, and that's how I think of it. So if you're so, if you like, if a woman is stressed chronically, she'll, you know, she'll use cortisol initially, and then it'll steal from progestin, and then if it gets longer, she'll steal from her DHEA. And so that's why I like to measure all of these things. And I know that doctor Clearfield measures Pregnenolone right up front. I don't. I usually, I can usually look at them and see how they're acting to, you know, some not a bad idea to measure Pregnenolone. But I don't think that it's really necessary, because I can usually make them feel better by measuring what's on this, you know, the the DHEA, Estradiol, testosterone and progestin to help them feel better at first. So the one of the other things I tell them from this slide is that if the stress is really chronic, it will eventually steal from grandma. And so if that's low, I say, Well, it took us a long time to deplete Pregnenolone. We're going to replete it. If you're low, you know, we'll replete it very slowly, so that it has time to go where the body needs it, you know, down the progestin, down the anabolic or the Catabolic side. And then we'll measure it and make, see, guide it where it's going.

Speaker 1  48:20
So this is a big, this is a big slide I my parents used. Are really, really happy about seeing this. And then, of course, they take this piece of paper home in the folder I give them. So then I don't show them the molecular structure of these three sisters, and I don't mention the before, but I do make a separate piece of paper that's, you know, has the e1 the e2 and the e3 and I write out their names at this point, and I just show how that e1 and e2 have a double headed arrow. They can they can go back and forth. E1 can become e2 and e2 can be e1 and then you can see that those both Estrone and Estradiol can become e3 Estriol. But it's a down product. It doesn't Estriol could not go backwards towards Estrone or Estradiol, which are, you know, potentially the less safe sisters. And I think people really, maybe, especially women, just clicks in their brain, relationships, you know, and personalities, certainly, how I got through organic chemistry is how we'd come up with personalities for these chemicals and molecules and elements and stuff. So I could predict what might happen. So then again, they go home with this piece of paper. And this is the three sisters, and I've got e1 I write, I write the words out and the arrows, and then I pause and give them a little time to, sort of, you know, put it in their heads and see if they come up with any questions. And so the then, and this is part of the narrative, so I don't write all this part out, but I say that you know, e1 as we all know, is the main estrogen that a woman produces after menopause. It comes primarily from the adrenal glands and from adipose tissue, but the power of this sister comes from converting to e2 and so e2 is the most powerful sister. It turns girls into women, you know, why don't you say secondary sex characteristics and all that other big words? I just, you know? It turns girls into women. And it really affects our memory. So if our Estradiol is low, we tend to lose our memory, especially for the names of things. It's one of the symptoms of a low e2 it's other. Could be other causes too, but when women can't like what the name of that, it's potentially the Estradiol is low. So e2 is 10 times stronger than e1 and it's 100 times stronger than e3 it's also responsible for the sex drive in women. Where, you know, the the media talks about testosterone being responsible for the sex drive in women, and it's not really true. You know, testosterone converts to Estradiol, and then that's what's actually responsible for the sex drive in women. So e3 is the weakest sister, but she's the most protective. So it's the very high levels of pregnancy help protect the pregnancy, and it does wonders for skin health and vaginal atrophy.

Speaker 1  51:36
So I always as one of my questions, my 100 question questionnaire for patients come in, I ask about, you know, symptoms of vaginal atrophy. So if I have a woman who's either, you know, perimenopause or postmenopausal, and they talk about vaginal atrophy is a significant part of their experience, I will treat them with e3 I mean, I'll measure all the other stuff, but I will treat them with e3 that's compounded. I don't give them the, you know, this stuff. I compound it and they have the that way they can have a little suppository. And I, you know, two or three times a week, depending on how bad it is. And then I'll write prescriptions for about three months, and then say, just at that point, kind of use your judgment, you know, do it two or three times a week? I mean, I'll say two times a week or three times a week based on my own assessment. So if I start somebody out three times a week, because I think, Boy, this woman is really suffering, and it could be affecting their, you know, their intimate relationships, because it's and UTI's and all the other risk factors that come from it. And I'll explain that, like e3 actually helps regenerate the tissues down there. It's not a lube, you know, and to make sure that there's at least 24 hours after they use it before they have any kind of intimate relationship. Because even though it's a very weak estrogen, no man needs extra estrogen, because it'll compete with testosterone. But so then I say, just kind of use your judgment after that. You should probably take about two weeks before you really start feeling better down there. And then you feel like you can go, you know, see if you really need it three times a week, then just keep it up. But then if you're like, Okay, I can pull back to twice a week. And then eventually wean yourself off, and then at the same time, I'll be doing the work to get their Estradiol up so that Estradiol can convert to e3 and that should not be a problem, like it should be resolved, not enough to deal with it. So like, I have women come in crying, you know, about how awful it is to have vaginal atrophy. And I said, you know, I understand it's awful, but it's really pretty easy to fix, and that makes them very happy, and it really is quite easy to fix. So I think that, like the end of what, how, you know what I wanted to share with how I treat patients, and mostly how I speak to them and help them understand it. So then my last slide is, if anyone's familiar with this, these ladies from Saturday Night Live, Mike Myers,

Bill Clearfield  54:23
Dr Nario, wouldn't know that he's, he's just a baby, so he wouldn't, he wouldn't know. Well, he's missing out. He's got to look it up. So, so I know, Dr Tanno that you have something prepared, but Dr bergson's got to leave shortly. So Lindsay, do you have anything you'd like to share with us before you you go. If you're there, I know you're still here.

Speaker 4  54:51
She might have fallen sorry. My mute. I'm really pooped. No, I thought that was really good. We all have our own viewpoints on it's amazing how hormones really have so many viewpoints. It's just an extraordinary terrain. You know, it really is, and it's great to always hear someone else's viewpoints. I appreciate that.

Speaker 1  55:18
Like this model is not perfect, just, I think it's the best way to explain great.

Speaker 4  55:25
It's great to hear how, yeah,

Speaker 6  55:28
I have a comment, okay, I look at hormones as bio neuro modulators. Okay? For the simple reason that there are many cell groups in the brain that produce hormones. They produce particularly each of the steroids, e2, e3 all of them and their their cell groups, neuronal groups that also produce, I mean, not neuronal groups, but their cells groups that produce a testosterone, also and DHEA, so all the hormones available in the testes, in the ovaries, in the adrenal glands, are being produced in the brain. And why that happens is that there is a bio neural regulatory action in the brain so hormones influence work as neurotransmitters, and influence neurotransmitters such as serotonin, dopamine, etc. So when, when women go through perimenopause and and menopause and they don't have enough Estradiol, etc, they suffer more than physically. They don't have enough endometrium modulation in their brains. And I think we need to be more scientific in the way we replace hormones and not assume that a similar hormone is the same than Estradiol. Estradiol is the most important molecule that modulates the brain in women, and if we look at the cell membrane, the cell membrane is full of steroid receptors. Is Is there are estrogen, estrogen receptors, Estradiol receptors, Estrone Steroidal, etc, but there are Estradiol receptors in every single cell in the human body, from the bones to the skin to the nerves, etc. Why is that? That is the way we are made. Hormones are extremely important chemicals that bio regulate transcription of proteins, right? So, so all the tissues are sensitive to the level of hormones and chemically, there is a perfect geometrical shape that adapts that A perfect geometrical shape between the hormone and the receptor. So there is not a similar shape. It is a perfect shape. So when the hormone the e2 will meet the the e2 receptor, the the shape. The the shaping of both is perfect, right? And where a similar hormone meets that receptor is not perfect. It is somewhere it meets the receptor, but there is not a perfect function.

Speaker 1  59:45
You mean, like a non biological one.

Speaker 6  59:48
When Xeno estrogen meets an Estradiol receptor, a Xeno estrogen is wrong. Xeno estrogen is is like a free radical that is extremely dangerous because it's a cancer causing a chemist, a chemical so I think the best thing we can do for women is to cover those receptors, but by giving them exactly what they need, which are Estradiol, Estriol, testosterone and progestin, the way they the human body is supposed to have, and cover those receptors with healthy steroids, instead of leaving those receptors open for whatever Mother Nature can bring from the outside,

Benoit Tano  1:00:51
one quick question, Dr the tissues, how much estrogen Do you think you want to give them to cover all these receptors? How much do they okay?

Speaker 6  1:01:01
I think after many, many years of experience, I think the base, the middle dose for most women is point six to five milligrams a day. But not everybody's the same. Or women need less type point three milligrams of Estradiol a day point three to five, some women need 1.25 milligrams of Estradiol, but they do need the real molecule, and when you give it to them, you see that in the changes in their faces when you see her, you see the patients four to six weeks later. They don't have hot flashes. They have more serotonin, they feel better. The osteopenia disappears in six months or gets improved. The progestin is very biomodulating, especially at night, decreases anxiety. It gives a better sleep. And the testosterone is extremely important. I know that we need to make things simple, but I prefer to give them a combination of e2 e3 progestin, testosterone. Not everybody needs estrogen, but to give and not everybody needs progestin, by the way, okay, some women do very well in on their own, for some reason. So the best way to measure the hormones is with the saliva test or with the serum test. I don't, I don't do a urinary steroid labs, because it's cumbersome, but I do get guided by the symptoms, mainly by the symptoms, the clinical history, the saliva tests and the laboratory, the blood tests. And so I think we need to make an effort to balance them out with the real molecules, not with similar molecules. And never, ever let the just have the thought that the Xeno estrogen will meet the estrogen receptors and think things are going to balance out, I think that is terrifying. We need to be detoxing the patients, showing how to eat best. How did you use glutathione? How to Use NID, how to improve themselves, and how to eat organic and just just learn to protect themselves from Xeno Estrogens in the environment. But, but not assume that because they're postmenopausal and they're a little obese, they will have enough Estrogens to survive the way they're supposed to. I think we need to do the real work and give them exactly what they need. That is my point.

Speaker 1  1:04:29
So then it seems to me that I didn't make my point clearly enough about the slide I just put up. That's what I was trying to explain about how what the three or four Estrogens look like, and how, you know, the shape of the receptors for it are even more complex looking, and how important it is to use bioidentical hormones. But I didn't make the point about the Xeno Estrogens also, you know, causing trouble in these receptor sites.

Benoit Tano  1:04:57
Yeah, I would, I would address that. So, yeah, that's because Dr Tanner said he was. Dr backson said you're going to leave. So if you could give your point of view, I mean, then we can proceed and go through this whole thing.

Speaker 4  1:05:12
What would you like me to say? Dr Tanno, by the way, it's so nice to see you. I remembering our long talk at that a 4m meeting. It's all coming back to me

Benoit Tano  1:05:22
now, correct? I told you we did a presentation together one time.

Speaker 4  1:05:26
Yes, well, I have very different points of view for some of the things, and some overlap and and I'm really pooped. I've been talking all day, but

Bill Clearfield  1:05:38
we will have you on after your conference, and after you've recovered from it, and we'll have you one more extensively, but if you have a little fight, you know, a short blurb, then we're going to let you go. We really appreciate you being here.

Speaker 4  1:05:54
So hormones are really incredible, and they're not a finished science. We had the genomic signaling, which is the lock and key, and then we have the non genomic signaling, which is transmembranous signaling, and then we have the crosstalk, which is a third mechanism of signaling. And now we have hormone signaling without a receptor, without a membrane, without crosstalk. They've discovered two of those right in the brain. So hormones just keep growing and growing and growing. And every single hormone signals in every single one of these ways. So it's it's extraordinary, and er alpha is no more. Er Alpha anymore. It's er alpha 66 and shorter isomers er alpha 46 and 36 that completely caretaker Disrupt. And there's a whole new science which we go into in everything breast cancer. In fact, we even have a picture of 17 beta dial entering a receptor, a video of it and showing what happens on target tissue. So it's so fascinating. When I was a distinguished hormone scholar at Tulane Tom Bishop put together these computerized videos, and it's really exciting, the expanding universe of hormones. But in the largest study ever run, the 10 million study put on by our NIH, published in April of 2024 I'm not a fan of Conjugated Estrogens of Premarin. But Premarin was more protective against breast cancer than any other estrogen at all, and there was no, no debate about it. It was run on there were 10 million women, and one that 1,000,500 women were on hormones compared to the other women. And statistically, women on estrogen replacement. Some of them had progestin some of them didn't. They had statistically less breast cancer, colorectal cancer and lung cancer, and then they had a non statistical protective trend toward a reduction in many other but as crazy as it was, even Premarin was more protective than Estradiol. So just a fact that that's like the largest study ever run. There were a number of issues with that study. Is a status several statisticians from the NIH put that together. But what we learned from that, up until then, we all thought, you know, only bioidentical. I'm only into bioidentical. But we realized that almost any hormone is better than no hormone, and that was a huge, a major, major shocker. Ooh, no one thought that was going to happen with Premarin. But anyway, it's really exciting, and it's an honor to be part of hormones. For years, we've been saying that hormones protect against breast cancer and protect your brain. And everyone was bad mouthing hormones. And McCary just discussed rfda head, our 28th FDA head just wrote in his best selling book, blind spot in the second chapter, that the reason everybody thought that estrogen caused breast cancer is because June 28 2002 Jacques Rousseau, that headed was the primary investigator of the Women's Health Initiative, he told all the co authors of which McCary is one, we're going to put out. We're going to put out a press release that says that estrogen causes breast cancer. And all the co authors looked at each other and said, We didn't reach statistical significance on that, because every single analysis of the Women's Health Initiative is only shown. Estrogens is breast protective. First it was a trend, and then it became statistical. And the final re analysis was 2019 and so Ma said, we can't do that. And he said, If you all open your mouth, your careers are ruined, and everyone shut their mouth, and that press release went out, and the whole world is so reactive. The next week, the journal the American Medical Association published a paper saying, why did the Women's Health Initiative stop prematurely? They did not reach statistical analysis, and we have lived in a mire of lies, and our FDA had just admitted it, and that's why we're putting on the everything breast cancer, because there's no data, no data at all, to support that women with breast cancer have any worsening outcomes. In fact, they have better outcomes if they take hormones. And there's 25 major studies, several of them randomized that show, and they all have matched cohorts that women with breast cancer do better. They have less recurrence and less risk if they do have recurrence. So if a woman is on hormones and she gets breast cancer, our message to them needs to be, you're doing better because you were on hormones, you have a higher ER positive, higher PR positive, and less amplified her two new so I love being in this space. I had breast cancer 31 years ago, and I've been on hormone replacement therapy

Speaker 4  1:10:57
for 28 and a half years. I'm going to be 78 and I wouldn't be doing what I do today without being on that and then I had kidney cancer, because my mother took DHEA when she was pregnant with me, which is why I wrote that book on endometrium disruption called hormone deception. So this is totally been my passion, and I love to hear other people's points of view, because everybody on hormones got a point of view. I was driving home from the gym the other day, and I followed this gynecologist in Canada, because I don't like anything she says, but she's got like 2 million followers, so I want to hear what she says. And she was talking with another gynecologist, and they said, What does FSH have to do with hormone replacement? And one of the gynecologist says, Nothing. There's only rodent studies on it. In the first weekend in May, I'm giving the first global talk in Mexico. I'm the keynote of the huge integrative conference in Mexico about all of the human trials on FSH, and they were saying how there were no human trials. So it's so interesting that we all know what we know, and a lot of us say it. You know, on these social media, there's so much misinformation, and women are made frightened of so many things. So it's so great to hear all these different opinions so we can understand how to help our patients, but how to keep people not afraid of hormones. I don't know why the hormone space elicits so much fear, knee jerk reactions. Yeah, is that it? Is that what it is?

Bill Clearfield  1:12:36
Well, you know, you know, testosterone, high, high, hemoglobin, blood clots, right? I mean, it's just a knee jerk reaction, but, you know, thinking about it, you know, it causes prostate cancer because some guy in 1941 had a patient with prostate cancer. You know, estrogen causes breast cancer because somebody said So somewhere along the line. And it just sticks. I love that. What you're saying. You know, I hate to, I hate to do this to you, though.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:03
Lindsay, yeah, I'm gonna go. I'm gonna go before

Bill Clearfield  1:13:05
you go, before you go, before you go, before you go. You inspired me to to learn about FSH, and I'm going to be presenting a short part of my talk on laboratory studies on FSH and AMG next week. So I'm going to beat you by a couple of weeks.

Speaker 4  1:13:22
Oh, that's fabulous. Good for you. You know, there's even a range to keep breast cancer patients lower with FSH, but not as low as women who are healthy, because as soon as FSH goes above, like the mid 50s, it amplifies k1 67 and amplified her two new which are your major growth factors that give you an idea the woman has a more aggressive breast cancer. So these it's so important, but when people don't know about something, they put it down, because it's so easy to be down on what you're not up on. So it's always great to have groups that get together and share their point of view, but I wouldn't be who I am today. If I hadn't been on hormones, I would be long gone. I really believe that to be true, and I'm grateful to compounding pharmacists. So grateful. I dedicated my last book that just came out three months ago to compounding pharmacists. And my editor said, you can't dedicate it to a field. And I went, I'm dedicating it to compounding pharmacists. So anyway, thank you, and thank you

Bill Clearfield  1:14:24
for being with us, and thank you. And as you can tell, she's she's a lot smarter than me. Anyway, so my mother, my mother, would be so happy if I could use some of those big words that you use. So do I

Speaker 4  1:14:38
use polysyllabic words? Okay, blessings everyone. We didn't, we

Bill Clearfield  1:14:45
didn't mean to, we didn't mean to bypass you here.

Benoit Tano  1:14:48
So that's okay. That's really great. I think the discussion is nice. Now we can all go back to research boards and try to figure out what is going on, because it appears that the jury stood out. No matter what we do, we have no consensus here that whether we should give Estrogens, we shouldn't give Estrogens. It doesn't really matter, because people will get the cancer. Don't get the cancer because of Estrogens. So we have to figure out what is causing the cancer. So where I'm coming from is from the CDC fourth report, and I want to share my screen before we lose it. CDC for football. Okay. Continue. You have to share,

Speaker 3  1:15:42
stop yours. Okay, stop yours. There you go.

Benoit Tano  1:15:51
So I can give you the backstory of this a little bit. Everybody sees my screen now, yeah, environmental toxins, yeah. So 20, 22,009, I was actually questioning why we have obesity, because I was looking at the obesity maps, and I found out that the mid Midwest, so from the Upper Midwest all the way to the Mississippi and Bayman state, they have more obesity than anybody else, and then it goes east and goes west. So I was questioning why the people in the middle America have more obesity. Also, I found out that Mississippi is a driver every single year. So it's Mississippi, Alabama, Louisiana, Kentucky, West Virginia, Ohio, and then goes up, well, like a tree. So then it dawn on me that people in middle America actually produce all our food for us, and they spray a lot of chemicals, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, fertilizers, name it. When I found that, I said, Well, could it simply be that the pesticides and herbicide that they're spraying is causing the obesity now? Then I went to the rabbit hole to try to look it up. I have obesity maps, but I did not have pesticide maps. So I said, Well, let me find pesticide maps. So I called the whole United States, and finally, somebody in Washington, DHEA said, Yeah, we have pesticide maps. So I got the pesticide maps year by year and match them with your obesity maps, and then matched perfectly well. When I found that, I was quite excited. I thought, Oh, I discovered something. It looks like the areas will be heaviest pesticide spray correspond to the heaviest obesity, heaviest diabetes, heaviest heart disease, heaviest cancer rate, heaviest mortality period. The question next came to me, I said, Well, does the government know about that? And when I was digging I found that the CDC actually has been ahead of me for years, because in 2001 that proceeded to measure these chemicals in our blood and urine, and they'll call it bio monitoring. So by monitoring as they're taking samples of individuals that brought the urine, try to see what they will find, and everybody that tested actually has chemicals in them. Now we found that the children even have chemicals when they're born. Many of them, they have over 280 chemicals in their cord blood. So it's not surprising that when you go to St Jude website, you see of these babies three months or six months old, they have brain cancer. You wonder why six months old, three months or will have brain cancer because they're contaminated when they came in by the CDC, since 2001 finding this chemicals in you, and I said, Well, don't worry. Don't panic. We don't know. We don't know what they're doing. My question is, when are we going to worry when we all got cancer and died? Because we know that these chemicals are through epigenetics and everything else, they're causing cancer. So when I looked at from the CDC fourth report, because I did report 1234, when they got to before, when they stopped, and every couple of years, they are made it, and the chemical list is getting longer and longer, yet, conclusion has always been don't panic, don't worry, but don't say why we should do something about it, but they're observing it still. So I went to the CDC website, and I looked at the chemical that they're finding in our blood and urine to see what they're doing exactly, and I found out many of the chemicals actually

Benoit Tano  1:19:40
are thyroid disruptors. So that's why, if you look around, we have so many women who have hypothyroidism. They do have Hashimoto steroiditis. They have grave disease. They have TERT, cancer, name it. You go to Facebook, the women are Conjugated. They're trying to figure out why they're having so much of base cancer problems. But the majority of the chemicals that I looked at, they're all mimic estrogen. So if you take all your Bisphenol A, you take all your phthalates, you take all of your PCBs, you take all your dioxins, all of those chemicals mimic estrogen. But when they say mimic estrogen, what does that mean? But when we talk about Estradiol, actually 317, beta Estradiol. Now, when people did studies on these Estrogens, they found out that the chemicals that we're finding in our blood and urine, they act like the 17 beta Estradiol. That means that can occupy the Estradiol estrogen receptors alpha and beta that Janet was talking about, and then they can induce even more production of Estrogens in the cells. So as a result, we have a major problem going with the basino Estrogens, as we call them, because they're man made, industrial Estrogens and things that we're using in the farms and everywhere else. On top of that, we have the metal Estrogens, or the metals mercury, cadmium, lead, all of those things, arsenic, they're all mimic Estrogens. So we have the metolo Estrogens that go along with that. And if you look here, we have so many of these Estrogens. Then we have the organophosphates that are acetylcholine Estrogens. So they make acidic choline available. But my concern here is not those guys. My concern is the Xeno estrogen that we see around so if you see you come here these big groups, they're all mimic estrogen, and it's not couple 100, it's 1000s and 1000s of these. Now to make matters worse, in 1994 96 we introduced in our food chain one of the worst estrogen company. How many of you know what it was that glyphosate, glyphosate, we introduced glyphosate in our food chain in the form of the GMOs, because these GMOs that don't grow unless they have glyphosate around or Roundup now, since they brought it in studies after studies have shown that when they grow back with breast cells, they grew like wildfire. So glyphosate is actually considered carcinogen, and it can cause breast cancer, but this estrogen overall, they cause seven cancers in women, breast, uterine, ovarian, vasomotor, cervical, colon cancer and lung cancer for women who never smoked, but also for men, prostate cancer, colon cancer and lung cancer, whether it is the Xeno Estrogens and other Estrogens doing it, or extra dioxins doing it. But because these guys, they mimic the 17 beta Estradiol, let's go down and try to see what this Estradiol does. In general, Estradiol and e1 so e2 and e1 enter, convert, right? That's what Jeanette was saying. But enter, convert through an enzyme could be 16 beta Hydroxyl steroid dehydrogenase. So they have two version of those enzymes, the dehydrogenase one and the HSB dehydrogen dehydrogenase two. The two converts the Estradiol to be Estrone, and the one converts the Estrone to be Estradiol, so they enter convert in the body. Now B Estrone can go to two Hydroxyl Estrone, and also can go to 16 Alpha Hydroxyl Estrone.

Benoit Tano  1:24:04
Those of you who have done a lot of biz work, we know that bis metabolize actually are not benign, because the two Hydroxyl Estrone is supposed to be protective, because it does not cause a cellular growth and anything like that. It can be Excreted easily, that the 16 Alpha Hydroxyl Estrone is the one that is involved in the cancer. That's what everybody says, And we agree with that, if we don't agree now that Dr Bergson and other people are saying, there's different ways, and there's don't cause cancer, et cetera. That's why I was initially saying perhaps we have to go to the drawing board and try to learn more about all these hormones, because it's like we're back to square one. We don't know anything about them. We need to go learn about their receptors. But all the papers that have been written said that the 16 Alpha Hydroxyl Estrone is no good. So if base 17 beta Estradiol converts to Estrone, and the Estrone can go to 16 Alpha Hydroxyl Estrogens and cause cancer. And knowing that we have these Xeno Estrogens that mimic the 17 beta. Estradiol, that means they can induce conversion to be 16 Alpha. Diazinon, that's the case. Then perhaps Estrogens are not benign. We don't or basin Estrogens are not benign. They're not just there, and they're not doing anything, but doing something. As a matter of fact, if we look at what is happening to young women before round up was put in our food chain, you hardly will hear that young women that will get breast cancer at age 20 or 20 or 19, etc, But now we see a young woman in their 20s getting breast cancer. Not only that, if you look at the things that feed growth that Jeanette said about the growth of the breast or growth of hips, or growth of uterus or growth of ovaries, what we call polycystic ovaries, is getting younger and younger, young girls, 14 year olds, 15 year olds, 13 year old they're having polycytical ovaries. Why? Because of the estrogen we know without a doubt that the Estrogens are driving this growth. Now, whether it's Estradiol or any other things, but I'm thinking Diazinon Estrogens are doing it. Do you guys know why or when people started telling us not to drink out of plastic bottles, not to heat plastic, not to do that, not to this? How many of you know why people came up with these ideas? When did they start telling us not to drink out of plastic bottles, plastic and etc? BPA, yeah, basically, no. Early 2000s Yeah. Early 2000 they found out young girls, some of them, are getting their period by age seven. Pre conscious, pubertal. Sudden. People think, Oh, what is causing this precaution of pubertal they say, well, estrogen. Well, where is the estrogen? Oh, it's plastic, BPA. And so they tell us not to drink out of plastic, not to do that. And we're making a big fuss about plastics when we have other major Estrogens in our food chain. For instance, Dacthal said that nobody's talking about they're not even questioning that these things cause problem at all. For me, it's really important then that we realize that these Xeno Estrogens are not benign, but doing something, they're causing cancer by causing other havoc on the human body that we need to understand and then take better care of it. For me, when patient come, I tell them, You know what Estrogens are problematic. And the estrogen that we have in our body here is not only the one you making, especially if you're a menopausal, probably you making minimal e2 but through the e1 you enter, convert to the e2 so there's no point in me giving you more estrogen, because you already have plenty, including all the ones causing you to be obese. So then perhaps we should not add any more estrogen to you. And that's where I come from. This is the my go to table the CDC fourth report that are always show to people that this is what they're finding your body. If the government is saying it, maybe it's 10 times 20 times more than what they're showing us. We all have that's why we have this obesity pandemic. For instance, if you look at diagrams that have diagrams, you can see that r'bc was going up slowly in 1997

Benoit Tano  1:29:06
it went up exponentially worldwide, and it's not coming down. It keeps on going. Why? Because 1994 96 when we introduced Roundup, that I think led to incident increasing worldwide. Because Roundup is the major herbicide that we use worldwide. The major one you go to any Boondocks in Africa, you find roundup since they have been doing that, then obesity, already sudden, is spreading like wildfire worldwide. According to the World Health Organization, by 2025, last year, if we did not do anything, which we didn't do, there will be 2.7 billion people overweight worldwide, and I'm thinking we did not do anything to make it go down. Perhaps we have maybe 3 billion people overweight worldwide, and nobody is talking about that. So we have a pandemic on our hand, and we have to figure out why we have this pandemic. I think that the Xeno estrogen, and not only the Xeno estrogen, the thyroid Estrogens also contributing to it. Because one knows soy is a big estrogen. It has three ingredients that are estrogenic. We have a Genesis, dioxin and other component. But soy is the number two GMO in the country. So if a soy is a GMO, that means it has a lot of estrogen in it, due to the glyphosate. And since soy is by itself, estrogenic, then soy is not a good food that we should consume on a daily basis. If you ask me, they did some studies using soy, they said maybe they would occupy all the estrogen receptors and nobody will have any problems. But I doubt that would be the case, because the soy many people who eat it. In my clinic as an allergist and immunologist, I see that all the time, women come, I went on high protein diet, and I was eating tofu and all this soy protein, and now have hives. When I stopped, my house went away. So why am I having hives? I said, What is your soy protein that caused it? It's not because you, you, I mean, your house fell from the sky because the Estrogens, they have receptors on your allergy cells. So there's a an immune component to be estrogen when they are attached to the receptor alpha on the masses and vasomotor fields that cause histamine and lecointron release gas, LA, polyn epithelium, wood that they make the effect of IGE stronger. So people have small allergens that were not causing trouble for them. Now that they have plenty of estrogen around, a lot of people are reacting. It's a lot of women. I see hives every single day. I see mast cell activation syndrome every single day. So what is activated by mast cells, if you ask me, basino Estrogens, and probably the Estrogens that women are making endometrially, that is driving these reactions. So saying that estrogen is good and we need to replace it, my contention is we already have plenty in our body, and they start showing on in our bodies in terms of obesity, because when the Estrogens go up and make the insulin go up, then people crave sweet or if inadvertently they eat sugar containing things, the blood sugars go up, and the insulin takes it and puts it to fat cells. So all I decided everybody's ballooning, and when roundup came in made things go overboard, and everybody's ballooning. We cannot find the cure for obesity. No matter what we do, we do a GLP ones and stuff like that, Agonist, but when we give it to them, even that, they lose weight, and if they don't detoxify, they gain the whole weight back, and nobody's telling them about detox. So if we still have a toxin that estrogenic and driving the insulin, then the insulin is causing the havoc on the body in terms of obesity. And when we have obesity, we have aroma test that is produced now that aroma taste is very important, because the aroma test is going to convert the testosterone to estrogen. There are some areas on the in the ovary, we have two cells. What are the two major cells that we have in the ovaries? Anybody knows that cause the hormone modulation and hormone production everything else? We have the fecal cells and we have the granulosa cells, right? So the thicker cell, they have L, H, and they are granulosa cells. I think they have sh, FSH. Now when we have Polycyclic ovaries, how do we know, without doing ultrasound Ethers, someone may have Polycyclic octyl by doing a lab

Unknown Speaker  1:34:03
without a lab. Is that what you asked?

Benoit Tano  1:34:04
No, no about doing we are just checking by lab without doing ultrasound or anything about nature. How do we know

Speaker 1  1:34:15
Hydroxyl and like, periods that are missed? Yeah, if I have

Benoit Tano  1:34:20
Hydroxyl Polycyclic ovaries, if you look at the LH and FSH ratio, if it's greater than three, that is probably Polycyclic ovaries and TERT proven otherwise, that means that making more androgens than not. So in essence, they sell themselves in the ovaries. They're doing something best, probably due to the Xeno Estrogens and thyroid Estrogens that we see around because it's causing them to produce more androgens for some of these women, and also some of the Xeno Estrogens, some of the chemicals that we have, but also are aromatis Booster such as anybody knows one chemical that we use as an herbicide that is an aromatis Booster, Atrazine. Atrazine is a big aromatis Booster. That's why it converts some male frogs into female frogs, basically because they lay eggs. So if some of these chemicals that we spray or we're using in our daily lives, or we ingesting them or drinking through the water system, they are causing conversion of testosterone to Estrogens, then we're going to have a lot of estrogen around. It's not only the Xeno estrogen that we see, but we have more Estrogens. So why then add more estrogen to any person? Why add more estrogen to any woman? Because they're already having a showing by obesity and by all the other reaction that they have, in terms of mast cell activation syndrome, hives, endometrial, cyclohexyl driven, they're going up, if you look at it then. And cancers, the different cancer that with the women are having, that estrogenic men too, prostate cancer, colon cancer, lung cancer, that estrogenic. So why then add any estrogen to anybody? That is my contention. So I think, you know, I'm not going to drag it wrong. I think other people can intervene. If you have questions or inputs and you want to prove me wrong, then you have to let me know how, how we can sort out this

Speaker 7  1:36:44
system here Dr channel, I have one quick question, do Xeno Estrogens bind preferentially to our own? Estrogens to receptor sites?

Benoit Tano  1:36:55
Yeah, but do so. But do bind to the 17 beta Estradiol sites, which would be the estrogen receptor alpha and beta, right,

Speaker 7  1:37:05
but more preferentially than bioidentical estrogen, right?

Benoit Tano  1:37:11
Yeah, benzyl estrogen,

Unknown Speaker  1:37:13
yes, so they bind

Unknown Speaker  1:37:14
more and more rapidly receptors, yes,

Speaker 7  1:37:17
oh, okay, so All right, so you can't saturate your estrogen receptor sites with good estrogen. To say you

Benoit Tano  1:37:26
can't, you cannot saturate the estrogen receptor site with good estrogen thinking that you're going to antagonize your Xeno Estrogens, or hydro Estrogens.

Speaker 7  1:37:37
Okay? And I know someone asked in the in the chat, just answer quickly about, you know, as we all know, that do anything with environmental medicine or toxicity, the first rule is avoidance. When you're talking about vtechs And you're talking about the internal combustion engine and petrochemicals, the one of the best ways to try to eliminate that, if you can, is to stay out of parking structures, right?

Benoit Tano  1:38:06
Walk, walk, definitely. I mean, I really think B estrogen equation probably we haven't mastered it yet, and therefore we should be cautious, or ERb on the side of caution than Carbaryl. Go and say, Hey, men that can have Estradiol as much as they want. You know, some people are giving them testes. So as long as the estrogen is 200 whatever, we don't care. Well, we have to care, because these people may have some adverse events, it could cause many, many problems that we don't even know about.

Unknown Speaker  1:38:46
Bottom line, testing, your opinion on testing, hormone testing?

Benoit Tano  1:38:53
Yeah, so for hormone testing, I really prefer the blood test. I don't like urine tests, like Jeanette said, because the urine test, I tried it several times, it gave me first results. I really don't like that. So I don't do any urine test, like a Dutch test and all of that. I have never done them before. I used to do one, I can say, because would not do a CME away. So I used to do Genova. Genova had a blood test that offered the estrogen metabolites with two Hydroxyl Estrogens, 16 Alpha Hydroxyl Estrone. As of May 2021, they stopped that. They don't do that anymore, but I continue to use that blood test, which is hormone, hormone health test kit for women and for men, but do both, and that's what I have been doing for years, and that's for the metabolites, or just the just the basic hormone testing, like progestin testes run DHEA and all that, they used to give the metabolites, but, you know, I was thinking, we should all gang on them and say, Hey, bring it back.

Speaker 7  1:40:09
Yeah, aren't we really concerned about the metabolites? Yeah, we are

Benoit Tano  1:40:13
concerned about the metabolites and but they replace it with the urine test, but is not quite as good as the blood one.

Speaker 1  1:40:21
And how do you know that? Like, how did you figure out that the urine metabolite test is not as good as

Benoit Tano  1:40:27
the blood because I tried it, I tried it on several patients, and the results are really useless. So I look at the result that they have from the urine and it doesn't match anywhere near what we had with the blood tests, same people, I mean, same same woman who came to me who had a blood test for being metabolize I did the urine test on them, because every year I repeat that test, and it turns out that it doesn't give me what I wanted.

Speaker 1  1:40:58
Well, I found some credibility to those urine metabolite tests. I kind of routinely check my female patients who are over 40 for their urine metabolites, regardless of whether or not they're on BHRT. And I recently had, it's been a couple years, but a patient who I would test her every three years, and she was always fine. And then she got not quite grade one, but you know, the hyperplasia, atypical hyperplasia that was. And so I tested her again, and all of the hormones were abnormal. And so what we did was do all the usual things that we've I was taught to bring them back to normal, metabolites, of course. And I guess at that point, she was on estrogen, so she went off of the estrogen, we clean up all her metabolic pathways, and then she had a repeat DDE about five or six months later, and it was completely, absolutely normal,

Benoit Tano  1:42:05
and your metabolites were normal. Which did you use the Dutch test? Or which one did you use? TERT, the busy RT test? Okay, yeah, and that was

Speaker 1  1:42:14
kind of like the big stamp for me to actually have a patient. I've tested her several times, and then she got the, you know, uterine lining hyperplasia with atypia. The physicians wanted to take all her insides out, I mean, all our girl parts out. And instead, she did everything to clean up the pathways, tons of supplements, tons of Corticosterone. Crustaceous vegetables. And yeah, she got a doctor to do a repeat DDE, and it was completely clear,

Benoit Tano  1:42:50
dim, or I 3c or any of those, yeah, yeah. Also, yeah, yeah. They give it I 3c but if you do that, you have to make sure you repeat the metabolize, because sometimes the Dieldrin methane has a paradoxical effect of reducing the two Hydroxyl estrogen, which is protective. Do I think I

Speaker 1  1:43:14
just gave her dim? I'd have to look, go, look back, because I haven't used the endometrial stuff in a long time.

Benoit Tano  1:43:20
Yeah. So you have to look at the 216 ratio when you do those tests and see if it is high, then that's okay. But if it's low, that means your extra 16 alpha is higher, and many times if you do give them dim or even I 3c paradoxically, will reduce that two Hydroxyl Estrone. And so I expose them more to things. But if you are too Hydroxyl estrogen, too Hydroxyl estrogen is too high, that also can lead to osteoporosis. So that means everything is a balance.

Speaker 1  1:43:56
Yeah, yeah. And she's been tested multiple times since then, and been totally fine. So I put some credibility to those your metabolite tests, and like you're saying, it doesn't seem like we have anything else to go by,

Benoit Tano  1:44:11
nothing else that we have. I really wish the blood test would come back, because I loved it. So I mean, that's my position, saying that Estrogens are actually not our friends, and therefore knowing that, I mean, I think they cause cancer. But Dr Bergson seems to think that no, actually Premarin was better, because when they did, the women have initiative trial, the reason they stopped it earlier, because some people had developed tumors and whatever else. But I don't know follow up, what the million people study that she referred to. I don't know what the calculations and how all that sudden, estrogen is so great, we should use the estrogen. I personally am not going to give any Estrogens to women. And by the way, women who show up with hot flashes, if we give them progestin, right, they do better on the progestin, the hot flashes go away, yeah?

Speaker 1  1:45:18
Helps clear out the recirculation Estrogens, correct? Yeah, makes you safer too. I am.

Benoit Tano  1:45:24
I'm safe with the progestin. I give it to women all the time, but I don't give a many estrogen unless absolutely necessary. If they're thin, if they're thin and they're complaining of heart Phthalates, I give them things is not working. Then I give them minimal, minimal estrogen, one milligram of biased which will be extra dioxin, 20% and Estriol, 80% that's what I include in the cream. And I give it to them, and they do really well, yeah, so I'm not going to go overboard and give tons of estrogen to any woman thinking that ESTROGENIC saturated receptors and cause them to balance the Xeno Estrogens and things that I know, I don't think that would be a wise idea given what we know. Yeah, I agree with you.

Speaker 7  1:46:17
Dr Clearfield, yes. Your thoughts.

Speaker 3  1:46:23
I'm just listening at the moment. I'm sort of in the middle of the road camp here.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:30
We, you know, have been conditioned over the past 20 years to be very cautious with estrogen, and that hasn't changed much, except for the fact that we get to say that we we've been, we told you so we've been, we've been telling you so over the last 20 years. And as you know, we've gotten drummed out of many medical societies because of it. And turns out that we were on the right track. I'm not quite as radical as Dr Tano. As far as you know, almost never estrogen.

Benoit Tano  1:47:08
But I didn't say almost never. I said, some people, they said almost never.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:16
There's a lot of wiggle room in there. But I've been a big proponent of progestin for a long time. And again, the natural progestin and and, you know, so some of you have heard, you know, my talks, and you know Carol's, Carol is the real expert. Carol Peterson is the real expert on it. You know, knee jerk reaction, you had a hysterectomy. You don't need progestin. I mean, I have medical students coming in here now that still, they're still taught that. And you know, it's just, you know, absurd. I hand them to to to slide conclusion with 142 references, and the gynecologist tell them we don't care. The answer I get is, I'm a board certified gynecologist. You don't know anything, right? So that's why I'm certainly looking forward to this Saturday's endocrinology for the non endocrinologist. I'm sure we're going to hear all sorts of wisdom from from these folks.

Speaker 2  1:48:24
Yes, Carol, I have a question and something to say about the question, total Estrogens. Do you ever measure that in serum and find out that it's quite a lot higher than estrogen and Estradiol?

Bill Clearfield  1:48:40
I don't measure it. It sometimes shows up on its own. Yeah, I never asked for it, but it'll show up. And I'll get an Estradiol and a total Estrogens. But I'm assuming it's got Estriol in there also, and

Speaker 2  1:48:56
it must. It may have Xenoestrogens. I don't know. I even called the lab, and they don't know what they're measuring, what what is collective in in that measurement, but sometimes I see it a lot higher. And then, have you heard of plectner syndrome? Al pleckner, the vet? No, no, never.

Unknown Speaker  1:49:16
Never heard. That's why we're here.

Speaker 2  1:49:19
Okay, so he measured, and he did this on pets, but he did this on humans, their human their pet owners, to about 2000 humans. So he would measure total Estrogens, and he would measure and it would be high, and immunoglobulins would be low. Beta cells would be low, and these were involved with some serious chronic things. He reversed some blindness in dogs with this. And the treatment was cortisol, wow, Hydroxyl cortisone. It brought the Estrogens down, and it improved the beta cells and the immunoglobulins pretty, pretty interesting. But when I asked, like, what? What's in that total Estrogens, his theory was that there's some adrenal Estrogens that we have never even identified yet contributing to that interesting.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:17
Dr Tanner, what are we looking

Benoit Tano  1:50:18
at here? Oh, so I created a course in 90 hours on xenoestrogen balance and chronic diseases. So hours, 90 hours.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:34
So I hate to break this to you, but I don't have that type of attention.

Benoit Tano  1:50:40
So like, for instance, one of them here very, I mean, if it would come up, I don't know, but it goes through all the Steroidal Genistein NDL of that, and explain everything for you, step by step.

Speaker 8  1:50:57
Imagine a single molecule cholesterol serving as the primordial clay from which the very essence of biological femininity, bone density, cardiovascular health and cognitive resilience is sculpted. Right? We often speak of estrogen as a singular entity, yet in the human laboratory, it is a trinity. Estrone e1 the steady matron of menopause. Estradiol e2 the potent Queen of the reproductive

Unknown Speaker  1:51:24
years, and Estriol ethyl protector of pregnenolones,

Speaker 8  1:51:32
mysteries of endometrials, octyl Genesis and life cycle transitions. In this master class, we will journey through the steroidogenic cascades of the ovaries, adrenals and placenta. We will explore the two cell two Gonadotropin model that governs the follicular phase, and dive deep into the mechanism of Aromatase, the molecular bridge that crosses the chasm from Androgens to Estrogens. By the end of this lesson, you will possess a sophisticated understanding of how the body delicately balances these potent ligands and how dysregulation leads to the diverse pathologies we encounter in clinical practice. Analyze the sequential enzymatic steps of the Steroidogenic pathway from cholesterol to the three primary Estrogens, evaluate the two cell two Gonadotropin hypothesis and its role in compartmentalized biosynthesis within the Graafian Folliculinum.

Benoit Tano  1:52:32
Stop it here. At least you will see, I mean, those of you who are interested and you want to know more about this, because let me know about a life of its own. A lot of information that I gathered through all of these things that I've been doing, and hopefully it will enlighten a lot of people about the Estrogens. It talks about all the receptors. Anything you want to know about estrogen.

Speaker 1  1:52:59
I have a question about your Xenoestrogens. How do you measure them? Is there a way to measure them?

Benoit Tano  1:53:05
Oh, no, because they're lipophilic in the fat cells. It's only, I mean, you do other measures. For instance, Estrogens going up. You know, they have too much estrogen in them, and they have too much xenoestrogen, but you cannot measure them per se, also sometimes be 16 alpha hydroxylations estrogen. It goes up tremendously if you have too much of xenoestrogen in you. And I see that, not only in menopausal women, but also I see that in young women as well, the 16 alpha is off chart.

Unknown Speaker  1:53:42
And then, how do you detox them? Oh, I do the detox.

Benoit Tano  1:53:45
I give them so orthomolecular has a detox products called Corticosterone day or 14 day. Detoxes has HRT complex for heavy metal detox. But also they have been detox pure pack that I give to the patients all the time. But it's not a quick detox like call restore. So I tell them to take it for a long time, to take it like hey, whole year. Then they probably they can do a little bit. But all of you, you know that is coming, they have a therapeutic plasma exchange, and the therapeutic plasma has changed. For those of you who are interested in one, can afford it because it's quite pricey now, I think they test you first they look at all your heavy metals and everything else you have in your body in terms of toxins, and then they start detoxifying you by cleaning your plasma. And after five sessions or so, they can show you that all the things that when your blood have have gone away, including infections, such as latent infection, EBVs and everything else goes away.

Speaker 1  1:55:05
So I'm glad you mentioned core storage. That's one of my favorite products, right? What I really like about is it's the only product I've found on the market that puts you through Phase Two detoxification before phase one, so that you're basically emptying the garbage can before you go in deeper to get more of the trash out. So every day that the patient's on it, they just feel better and better because you're really getting, you know, the crappy intermediaries deeper and so I usually I mean, so if somebody, you know looks toxic to me, or, you know, in ways that you're talking about. It's one of the first things I like to do. And I like to have them fast for two days, if it's possible, if they have enough glycine control to do that right, and then do it really for two weeks, you know. And what I say is, 90% is an a, you know, so they don't have to be because, like, when somebody's really toxic and unstable, it's really hard to do all the things you need to do for the detox so, like, they're supposed to go without anything, any kind of potentially allergenic foods, like fish and eggs and milk and wheat. And that can be really a big challenge for people. They'll say, Well, I just need my coffee in the morning. You should really go without caffeine or alcohol or sugar. But if they could, if there's, you know, to do it properly. But if they can, if they just really need their coffee in the morning, I'll just say, then just have your coffee in the morning and don't worry about it. And if you can remove all the wheat and the sugar and the alcohol and all those other allergens and like, just go for it. And then every time that they do it, they become more in control of their cravings. And so each time that they do it, it becomes easier and easier detox. So like, when I was going through the metabolic, nutritional second masters that I have in the back of my mind, I was like, what are the what can we do that can actually harm somebody? And what I came up with is estrogen and detox. And so those are the two things that I came up with, that we can do, that can actually harm a patient. And so D and that. So that was my electives, was in pediatrics and in detoxification. And so detox needs to be done in pulses, and it needs to, you know, you need to respect your body, and there's no in doing it. So there's not good if a patient feels bad and they're going through detoxes, no, you know, gritting your teeth and getting through it. If you really feel crappy, really feel bad, then just back off and you know, you'll get that bad guy next time, kind of thing. But I really love core store because so I

Benoit Tano  1:57:49
I, in my case, I give them estrogen free lifestyle. By the way, I have written couple books on estrogen free lifestyle, meaning, if you already have estrogen overload your BHEST. You want to lose weight, why would you want to add more estrogen that would make your estrogen go up and cause you to continue doing what you're doing? So I gave them a whole list of things that are ESTROGENIC, and I said, don't touch them, and don't do these things, and including all your glyphosate Leydig foods such as your gluten, because of the pre harvest run that spray that we spray on our wheat and barley and but they do that to probably over 70 different crops now that will be spray around that before they harvest it, but many people are not aware of that, and so we keep on eating the same thing that cause trouble for us. I'm telling people, greens are not your friend. Maybe let's stay away from the grains altogether. Or sometimes I said, if you want to have a green at all, probably organic rice may be okay. Organic quinoa will be okay. You can do this type of grains, but no other greens that will help you lose your weight. So I have estrogen free lifestyle that I distribute to my patients every single day because of what I know

Speaker 9  1:59:12
workout today is all about the hybrid energy high and really

Benoit Tano  1:59:19
can't hear you. That may have been an accident. Yeah, could be. Dr Peterson, what is your take on all of this stuff?

Speaker 2  1:59:37
As far as I'm cautious with estrogen, is that your slides,

Unknown Speaker  1:59:48
that's somebody in the background,

Benoit Tano  1:59:51
somebody in the background talking, okay,

Speaker 2  1:59:53
okay, I'm cautious with estrogen, because almost everybody I see is estrogen dominant, but if vaginal tissue is atrophying, definitely Estrogens needed. I like what, Jeanette, what you said about using the topical or Estriol suppresses to help clear up that tissue, but it basically is a whole body estrogen issue, and then you're using Estradiol. And I think you said to to address the full body deficiency. Sorry, you said

Speaker 1  2:00:30
deficient in Estradiol. If they have, yeah, vaginal atrophy, they tend to be deficient in Estradiol. So I just use yes y'all to help them out until we either clean them up, where do whatever needs to be done to get the Estradiol to a level where, you know, it can produce enough Estriol and preserve and protect the, you know, the vaginal tissues after that.

Benoit Tano  2:00:51
As somebody, somebody asked for dosing, I personally use 1.25 milligram of Estrogens suppresses and it has done great for women in terms of vegetal dryness and everything else. And they use as needed, like Janelle was saying, they use it for like a week or two weeks when everything is nice, they can stop it, and they can reuse it whenever they want.

Speaker 1  2:01:18
Half a milligram, I've been using half a milligram works great, right? Less better rate.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:29
Questions. Anybody else

Speaker 1  2:01:35
I know, I think this is a good start for, like, a lot of conversations that we can go down.

Bill Clearfield  2:01:41
I'm hoping you like this, this forum, rather than just a straight lecture, just to

Benoit Tano  2:01:47
write, I personally like the discussions and put people's opinions that way. We all thinking and see what can we do next?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:01
Okay, so how can we I would have a question, how we can help with the obesity.

Benoit Tano  2:02:10
So when people start losing weight, you want to make sure by detoxify, because the reason they gain all the weight back, yeah, because when the chemicals that are in the TAT cells come in the blood, they tend to make the estrogen go up. So when the estrogen goes up, that's when they crave sweet. And some of them, they will tell you, I'm craving sweet, I don't know why. And then if you detoxify them, then they can continue losing the weight. Otherwise, they hit the plateau and they go the other way. They keep on getting in the whole way. Even people who do lap bands and bypass surgeries, they tend to gain the whole weight back if they don't do detoxification.

Speaker 6  2:03:01
Wow. Because of fatty liver, probably the liver, it's toxic too. Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Speaker 1  2:03:09
One of the theories they taught us, or one of the statements they said, was that the solution to pollution is dilution. So one of the big theories of obesity is that we're, you know, we're so full of pollution of toxic chemicals in us that our body's trying to save itself, and so it gains weight so that it can dilute it. So I totally agree with Dr Tano that you know, one of the early steps in helping somebody out lose weight is to slowly detoxify themselves, and detoxification.

Benoit Tano  2:03:42
It's made with Acetyl Cysteine, MEHP TERT, yeah. We have B detox pure pack, which is a pure encapsulation product. You have also hm complex, which is heavy metal detox. You have core restore. You have the Eco new geniste by Dr Isaac Elias, who does graph detox so detoxes, Phytoestrogens. He's the only one. I don't know if you guys do any other person who is doing detoxification for glyphosate, but he's the only one I know has a product called gynecological detox that cleans up the glyphosate. What was the name of that? Doctor? So eco nugenics.com

Bill Clearfield  2:04:32
What did you put it in the in the chat there? Doctor?

Unknown Speaker  2:04:34
Tano, yeah. Econogenics.com

Unknown Speaker  2:04:37
can we have all of them on the first one from pyridinolation,

Benoit Tano  2:04:43
pure encapsulation has hrtm complex and the detox pure pack.

Speaker 1  2:04:47
So I like to start them off with a multivitamin before I especially before doing a heavy metal detox, right? Meaning, you can get fancy and measure their micronutrients and their amino acids and rebalanced out. But I probably only do that with somebody who is little fragile to make sure that I'm supplementing them properly before I gently detox them and the heavy metal product, I'll look that up. But what I've been using is either cell x by starts with a zymogen. Xenoestrogens starts with x by zymogen, which is a nice, gentle way to remove heavy metals. And then there's a product by detoxemen, which is an IR. So it's an interactal suppository. Again. You can do it pulsing and try to make it, you know. And they come in, I think it's in 507 50 and 1000 milligrams. So you can actually use it for children. Is that? EDTA, yeah, yep. So it's cell X. Cdta, yeah.

Speaker 6  2:06:02
And did you, did you see reduction in the heavy metal? Miss? Dr Jonah,

Speaker 1  2:06:09
yeah, yes, that's the that's the way I like to do it. I don't prefer not to do the IV chelation. You know, the that area of our bodies is highly absorptive. It actually it also allows the levels of those being both oral and interrectile, allow the levels of the EDTA to remain longer in our bodies, so that it allows us to more slowly take it out, rather than just have this high peak of the chemicals from for the chelation, you know, in an IV, no,

Speaker 7  2:06:47
that's a great point, because doing the IV chelation, like you said, it's rapid, and then there's recirculation. But if you do the suppository, you get some of the metals out before they

Speaker 1  2:07:00
recirculate, right? And then, of course, it's always about supporting, you know, the emptying of the gut, you know, the whole healthy moving of the gut to actually help them get it out of them. Yeah, right. These are really important things to do.

Benoit Tano  2:07:17
So I always say, when the patient come, I have a routine. I give them multivitamin, yeah, give them organometalk Three, yeah. I give them vitamin d3, with k2 in it, yep. I give them magnesium. I give them also vitamin C, okay, because probiotic too, depends if they have abdominal problem, like IBS type of problem, then I give them a probiotic, prebiotic and digestive enzymes.

Speaker 1  2:07:53
That's a lot. Yeah, I think there's pill fatigue, though, that I'm

Unknown Speaker  2:07:58
but many people, what's your dose of vitamin C.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:01
Dr, Tano,

Benoit Tano  2:08:02
oh, vitamin C, I give them, like 3000 milligrams, which are three gram or if they have constipation, I tell them, hey, you can go up on it. You can do even five grams, if you want to, but you have to do magnesium citrate with it. And if he did that in the morning, then by 10 o'clock, many of them will go so they have. They become regular. They come back and say, Wow, I didn't know vitamin C can do such a great job that they've all been laxatives and everything else.

Bill Clearfield  2:08:38
So there's a difference our vitamin C lady that we had on between ascorbate and ascorbic acid, right? Yes. So alright, I think the ascorbic acid has a lot of the more GI symptoms, right?

Benoit Tano  2:08:52
So best buffered ascorbic acid that I use from pure and that has proven to be great, but they also have the vitamin C, but I don't use the vitamin C. I use the buffered one, which is more gi tolerant.

Speaker 1  2:09:07
So I'll tell you why I don't do it that way. So that's part of the discussion. I mean, as valuable as Vitamin C is, I think that, like a beginning patient, I have my routine as a multivitamin, probiotic, vitamin D and omegas, and then the probiotic will help the bowel function, whereas magnesium citrate works by irritating the gut. So I'd rather, you know, get a lot more with one stone with a probiotic.

Benoit Tano  2:09:37
Yeah. So, yeah, the magnesium my go to is magnesium through MEHP, but if they're having constipation and they're trying, they're not doing well, then I double up and give them a little bit magnesium citrate with C, we buffered not vitamin C, but buffered ascorbic acid, and they do much better with that.

Speaker 1  2:10:01
I do that later. I just think that that's sort of more the cherry on the top, and a lot of so magnesium is big, and so it's, you know, there's, I worry about pill fatigue, especially with a new patient, because it's new and there's different, and they can't always go home and talk to other people in their lives that are doing the same thing. So I try to Yeah, so if they need magnesium, which we all do need, I encourage them to take an Epsom salt bath.

Benoit Tano  2:10:31
Okay, well, because magnesium deficiency being such a big deal, I know it is country, yeah, and they get aches and pains and stuff. I agree, getting petitioned. You don't know. So that's why I personally give them magnesium through Nate, which is not going to cause event regular but not having constipation, or if they have diarrhea and all of that. I give them magnesium through Nate, which seems to be better than the other ones in terms of the gut tolerance

Bill Clearfield  2:11:01
question about how much magnesium do you use?

Benoit Tano  2:11:05
I give them like, I mean, I don't can I give them the pure encapsulation ones. I give them three, like, magnesium three. I say, Take three. It says, take two. The seven size two at bedtime. I say, take two or three at bedtime. And many of them come back and say, well, since I've been doing that, actually, my joints are much better. I don't have much of a key stuff, and it does help them.

Speaker 1  2:11:31
So okay, yeah, so there's an important point to make about magnesium also, is that if your patients are not using professional supplements. And it could be used as a motivating factor too, like so if they look at the label and you say, Okay, I want you to have 500 milligrams of calcium, I'm sorry, magnesium, whatever form you want, and they go to the store and they buy it, and it says, you know, magnesium carbonate, or torate or whatever oxidizer, 500 milligrams or glycinate or whatever is on the bottle. It means that, like it's 500 milligrams of that entire molecule. Whereas, if you, if you encourage them to use the professional stuff, it'll say magnesium, whatever, magnesium glycinate or carbonate or torate or whatever. But then in parentheses, it'll say the form that it's in. So like magnesium. So if I want them to have 500 milligrams of magnesium in the glycinate form, the bottle should say magnesium, and in parentheses, say glycinate. And then 500 milligrams. That way, you know the patient's actually getting 500 milligrams.

Benoit Tano  2:12:40
Yeah, pure encapsulation, we say, well, they don't put fillers or share likes or binders, right supplements. It's Hypothalamic. So you know that whatever a Mom They say you're getting is approximately what you're getting, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:12:55
is great, but when they got bought out by Nestle, but don't

Benoit Tano  2:12:58
have any difference, by the way they actually Nestle, double down, and probably quality wise, they're better than before. That's hard, yeah, actually, yeah, true. Did you keep it separate? But worries me. I don't work for them, but I know for sure they are doing a good job. So they have, they still have doctors on board for their formulation. It's not like we have a lay people doing it, so they didn't fire all the punches where they're sourcing it. That concerns me. Oh, the sources. That's why they run out of the time. Because they check. They want to live up to their name pure that don't want to give you toxic things from China or anything like that. They check, recheck, and if it's no good, they return it. Currently, if you go there, try to buy the cognimag, which is the magnesium pyridinate, basically. But right now, all the time, because they don't have it,

Speaker 1  2:13:55
okay, well, closer at them, because they have a lot of great synergy. They have a lot of products have great synergy in them that I don't see in other companies. By the

Benoit Tano  2:14:04
way, everybody copies them. If you take metabolize, you take everybody. So we better than pure or they copied them. So I wonder

Speaker 1  2:14:15
was a great company just wary of them now. So how long is the detox? So I encourage them to do it at least two for two weeks. And then, as a kind of maintenance, I encourage them to do two weeks, one twice a year or one month, once a year of the core store detox. You know, just as a maintenance, what I do the heavy metal stuff needs to be monitored, you know, adjusted, depending on how they feel, how well they are.

Speaker 6  2:14:50
I see, Thank you, doctor. Wow, it's amazing. Yeah, that's very good. Do you use modify Cyprus petitioned light?

Speaker 1  2:15:00
Oh, celx has that in it, zeolite and couple other things I can't think of off the top of my head.

Benoit Tano  2:15:10
I saw chill X over time, but I never used it from xenogen, right? Yeah, never use them, but I know that, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:15:19
pretty simple to take two so, yeah, and then I'll add binders too. That's a separate product, this charcoal and but I separate that, you know, the cellulose with the other binders. I've totally checked myself here, but I've used the two products, and I use the binders, like, if they have die off symptoms, like the you know, if they're doing a detox of any sort and they have die off, the binders can really help them. I'm trying to remember what company that was. It's a black bottle. So, yeah, I like cellux. Like oral stuff for detox, I think it's safer than IV. Like, it works better use glutathione or an Acetyl Cysteine, because they sort of ion, I think is overrated. It's really hard to cross the blood brain barrier, and I don't find that like the whatever they those special ones that have,

Unknown Speaker  2:16:23
it does not close.

Speaker 1  2:16:25
But NAC, yes, definitely. NAC is a precursor for glutathione. Yes, but, but first, but I have in the past, used or prescribed glutathione. Is it liposomal or whatever supposed to cross the blade band barrier, yeah, that's a quick shoulder scientific culture binder. I use that for, like, symptoms of die off, you know, and they just start feeling nauseated, they got a little headache, and they just don't feel that their energy drops. That works better, I think, than the glutathione. But I like everybody to be on NAC, right? We could all use that.

Benoit Tano  2:17:05
And what is the max do, except, except if they have a Gliotoxin, right? Did you attend Dr Kim BHRT lecture, dryotoxin? So if they have a more toxin, and they have Gliotoxin that comes up positive, oh, I don't do that. Don't want to give them an AC makes it worse.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:30
So toxin, how do you, yeah, Gliotoxin test for that.

Benoit Tano  2:17:36
But do the blood test? Is my, my co lab. That's a DR Campbell, who did a presentation on this forum here, if you go to my Michael lab or together my co toxin, sorry, Michael, my Michael lab.com, Okay. Dr Kembel, what's his first name, Dr Andrew Kembel. He came in here and then did a beautiful presentation. So I use that lab now to test for mycotoxin, because that's the only blood test that exists. And according to him, the urine test is false. It's not good.

Speaker 1  2:18:21
Okay, yeah, I've been using urine tests for mycotoxins.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:29
Dr naryo, is there anybody online? Have any questions?

Speaker 5  2:18:34
They're pretty they're pretty convinced about this argument. Let me, let me put my two cents in here. So I also stand on the side of using estrogen. So as as again, I'm I'm citing whi here, which is the debunked, I guess we are so angry about study that even there they were signing that even Premarin, the Conjugated estrogen sequence, Estrogens have been noted to be protected for breast cancer. And you have to remember that the study also was pertaining to progestins, or progestin that actually are the stimulants of the cancer growths. And another, another thing where the tide is kind of swaying over to our side of the use of estrogen is, of course, the the removal of the FDA warnings or the black box warnings of a specific hormones now in the market. But again, you know, in this field where I am, I've experienced so many lectures and students questions and even interaction with faculty. There's so many stands about using hormones. The thing here is, nobody's wrong. The only important thing that we have to remember here as practitioners is, are we helping our patients? Right? It's always about the benefit. May your May your, I guess approach be just pure progestin, avoiding Estrogens, removing Xenoestrogens out of the system. It's really all about the outcome of the patient, and you would notice that every practitioner who shared their experience here in this platform are so different, and you're scratching your head like, how could that even work? It works, and that's the thing. That's the magic of individualized medicine. So there, for me, I think there's nobody that's wrong here, unless you did some something harmful to your patient, and that's when you question yourself. But again, everybody's point and perspective with this platform is great. And this is a very good discussion, and I think the questions have been answered and squashed as you guys discussed it very thoroughly.

Unknown Speaker  2:20:37
Thank you. That's great.

Speaker 10  2:20:38
Well, I agree. Thank you. This is, this is Dr Barbie BHRT, from Stanford. Don't like to say it. Gilling, Hey, Hi. How you doing good to see you. I really love that everybody's contributing. And, you know, different points of view and nobody the attitude of nobody's wrong. We're all trying to do our best for the patients. However, Dr Tano, you have been kind enough to throw down the gauntlet and say, give the challenge to me. You know, I am an elderly female, and I have no intention of being deprived of my hormones unless you can give me some better arguments, and I do not deprive any of my females. I have a 90 year old female on hormones, and she is very happy with that. She was not happy prior to that. So I've got to go now because I've got a zoom conference with the patient. But everybody, you've been great. Totally helpful. Thank you, and I will accept your challenge, doctor.

Benoit Tano  2:21:32
Oh, I actually give hormone. I give progestin, DHEA, all of that. That's great. More, yeah, I'm not anti hormone. I give them what they need, I

Speaker 10  2:21:42
give them what they need, and I test them. So I gotta run. Sorry, guys, but thank you so much.

Speaker 5  2:21:47
Dr Barry, we're gonna get you in here. We want you to lecture in our in our platform.

Speaker 10  2:21:52
Okay, sounds perfect. And thank you everybody.

Bill Clearfield  2:21:57
Bye So. Dr Nario, the next question I have is she said she was an elderly female. Define elderly.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:06
She's not here anymore. That's a good question.

Unknown Speaker  2:22:09
I waited till she left.

Speaker 5  2:22:10
I know her personally, so I'll run after her to bring her over here to our show. All right, please do. She's a faculty of a firm too.

Bill Clearfield  2:22:22
Okay? So, yeah, you so what do you have coming up this weekend?

Speaker 5  2:22:25
I'll be flying to Florida, pure water. This coming Thursday, we'll be having lectures from Friday to Saturday, all throughout the day for Module Five. But Spring Fest, longevity fest, is going to be there. Be there, be square. Do stuff, good stuff,

Bill Clearfield  2:22:48
or mmgs at the rail National Golf Club, April 15 to the 19th. And I will be doing they gave me as part of the introduction to bio, bio identical hormones for for beginners, I'm doing thyroid, cortisol, insulin, endometrium, disruptors and laboratory all in one hour. Wow, let's just say it's a, it's a, it's a brief skim, and then that. And then on Sunday, I'm doing labor, laboratory of functional medicine part two, and I'm doing saliva and part of part urine. So so the job, don't like it, don't listen.

Unknown Speaker  2:23:41
So go to Florida. Don't be leaving for two weeks.

Bill Clearfield  2:23:45
And I don't know that I told you that I was invited by IFM that are in San Diego, San Diego, and I'm doing the endocrinology of psychiatric illness. So we'll be talking about mental health.

Speaker 5  2:23:57
That's great. Represent, represent.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:00
So we're moving up in the world here.

Speaker 1  2:24:03
Yeah, yeah. And I also love that genetic test I mentioned to you for psychiatric care really help choose which Medica give the patient gentle mind.

Bill Clearfield  2:24:16
Okay, all right. Anybody else have anything to add? We're after 1015 back East. So yeah. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Jeanette, thank you. Thank you. Doctor Tano, as always, dr, dr bergason out there, out there. Thank you so much for your cameo appearance. Dr Tano, of course, you know is that you know the brains of the group, Doctor Quinn for the the research group, Joel for being my right hand man, and, of course, Doctor, Doctor Nario and everybody else for being here. I know there's a couple of new people here. We met them over the weekend. There was a a women's showcase in Reno this weekend, and I met a couple of new practitioners, and I I saw one or two of them on here. So thank you for coming and and don't be stranger. Don't be a stranger. So this Saturday, Joel and I will be at the Atlantis for the endocrinology for non endocrinologists, and we're not speaking. Nobody invited us to come talk, so don't

Unknown Speaker  2:25:24
break legs there. I'm sure, I'm sure,

Bill Clearfield  2:25:27
I'm sure it's going to be, I'm sure you'll be, we'll be good coming out of my ears by 830 in the morning.

Speaker 3  2:25:33
Just watch. I'm keeping calm. I'll keep it calm. You're not going to be. You're not going to be around. Are you? Dr Nario,

Unknown Speaker  2:25:38
no, I'll be in Florida. I'll be there in spirit.

Speaker 11  2:25:41
How much you want to bet he speaks up within the first hour. I'm just saying.

Bill Clearfield  2:25:48
So those of you who've heard my one of my thyroid lectures, so this is what I'm expecting. If the if the TSH is greater than 10, give them Synthroid. If it's four and a half to 10 and they have symptoms, give them Synthroid. If it's under four and a half, they're crazy. Send them home. Diet doesn't matter. And, yeah, you can measure the thyroid antibodies, but there's nothing you can do about it. Okay, lectures over

Benoit Tano  2:26:10
here, can measure the parent antibody. That you can do a lot about it.

Speaker 3  2:26:14
You can. There's nothing. No, no, no, no, the endocrinology. There's nothing you can do. Endocrinology, yes, that's what I'm just saying, I'm going to endocrinologist of North, northern Nevada.

Speaker 12  2:26:29
You have to make them you have to tell them what they want to hear.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:32
Right? They're not fans of myself. My name in their circles is mud, so

Speaker 1  2:26:41
kind of put a bull's eye on your forehead by going there, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:47
So, I'll try to go in incognito. I'll wear a baseball hat. I'm gonna take like Dr klatz, you know, baseball cap. Nobody knows who he is, right?

Speaker 1  2:27:01
Big guy, though he's hard heart, hard eyed.

Bill Clearfield  2:27:04
So, so, yeah, so anybody else at GnRH, you're in Reno, so if you have nothing to do on Saturday, you'll

Speaker 3  2:27:09
be fine. Fascinated, by the way, how much was it? Was it? Was it $46 or something?

Unknown Speaker  2:27:16
It was not, it was 24 it was $44

Speaker 3  2:27:19
was 4648 for the two of us, correct? So it

Unknown Speaker  2:27:23
was pretty cheaper for nurses. Just saying, right? Sometimes it

Speaker 1  2:27:29
is so but, yeah, no, that sounds fun, because I've never really heard them speak as a group, right? They are such a force that works against what we're doing. It's, it's it's really wild that that the system has managed to capture. You know, the people are supposed to be experts in the field, and I don't know of any one endocrinologist that thinks outside of their box.

Speaker 11  2:27:55
Well, think about the VA I'm dealing with this right now. I wanted to talk to him about acupuncture and chiropractic in conjunction with my physical therapist. And they're like, No, we can't do that. So they only let the primary care do one modality at a time. And they said, how do we know what works? And I told them, and I quote, because I'm the patient. I'll tell you if you're fixing my left wrist, I'm telling you, if you're fixing my neck, I'll tell you if you're fixing some of my neuropathy, I'll tell you if you're fixing my they won't do that. They only go one at a time, and the one at a time could be anywhere from eight to 12 visits within a six month period. So you've got to finish those six month period. And a lot of us stretch them out weekly, so we can go as long as possible. So you're talking years and years. It's ridiculous. It's just, it's pathetic.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:47
But they're not going they're not there for you as a patient. They're not there for you. They're there to get a pension. What do you don't you notice by now?

Speaker 11  2:28:56
Well, they're the largest medical system in the United States. So when we talk about Big Pharma, talking about the VA,

Speaker 1  2:29:03
I know that. Yeah, my father was a veteran. He was an Air Force flight surgeon, so my mom would talk about the VA with us. It's rough. I know, yeah, what crazy things that they've done to people. All right, so

Bill Clearfield  2:29:19
let anybody send me some send me some questions they ask the endocrinologist. So we're gonna go, we're going into the lion's den this week. Yes, we are. This could be fun. I'll just bring my pom poms for you. I'm looking forward to it. So and by the way, if you do corner them on, you know, say, you know, kind of cornered them, their fallback answer is, I said so, because I'm a board certified endocrinologist, that's the, that's the that's the fallback answer,

Speaker 1  2:29:49
which means that's my standard of care, and I'm in this box that I can't get out of when they're when they

Bill Clearfield  2:29:54
claim, well, it's not, it's not that they can't Get out. They don't want to

Unknown Speaker  2:29:59
the culture

Bill Clearfield  2:30:01
they literally, I mean, everyone that I've dealt with, they literally do not want to

Benoit Tano  2:30:10
Dr Bill, one of the things that they don't make so but don't measure anything about free t3 Reversibility, that don't go there. And I wondered, what is the holdback you want to ask them that question? What is why don't you guys measure these things? You give them Central, you give them levothyroxine or even tyrosine. And yet you don't know what this is going are you happy with it? You just

Speaker 1  2:30:41
hard to measure ethyl t3 you know, whatever is running around the blood is not really a measure of of what's in the body. Disagree with you, but just saying that, that's one of the defenses that they could come up with.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:58
They want to give us the pills.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:00
Well, the answer is, usually it's unstable,

Speaker 1  2:31:06
unstable, unstable, just food. You know, foods unstable.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:11
I said, Did you? Did you have dinner last night? Right? Exactly. Gonna have dinner tonight? Yeah, yeah. Why you had dinner last night? If it's stable,

Speaker 1  2:31:20
it's probably not good, because we can't use it so easily, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:31:25
Yeah, I got somebody now, so dinging me because I gave somebody some t3 so of course, that caused the osteo an 85 year old lady now she's got osteoporosis, and of course it was from the t3 right?

Speaker 1  2:31:39
See if that's true, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:31:44
So, man, well, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:31:47
again, so I asked, I said, Well, ask the endocrinologist, what does the thyroid make? You know, what molecules does the thyroid make?

Unknown Speaker  2:31:55
But, I mean, they prescribe CYP, MEHP, right?

Speaker 3  2:31:58
A few of them will, yeah, but no, but that, yeah, t4

Speaker 1  2:32:03
before they give it to you. But I didn't think it was all that uncommon to say

Bill Clearfield  2:32:07
it was, it was, it was Leydig that caused the osteoporosis.

Speaker 13  2:32:11
Okay. Well, you're a bad doctor doing that the worst,

Speaker 1  2:32:18
I'm the worst. Yeah? Well, you're in good company.

Speaker 3  2:32:23
Hey, you know we be the leading this group. This is the worst group.

Speaker 1  2:32:27
So glad to be in this group. Amen, bad practitioners, man, the best group ever searching for it. Since I've been here, I heard about it through the rumor mill.

Speaker 3  2:32:39
Yeah, we're, we're the absolute worst love it, and

Speaker 1  2:32:45
we're proud of it too. Yeah, yeah. But wary, right? Like I, you know, it's not good that they can still make it really hard for us to function.

Bill Clearfield  2:32:55
Yeah? Well, we kind of, we kind of thrive on that, actually.

Unknown Speaker  2:32:59
So that's good. Then maybe some

Bill Clearfield  2:33:01
of that I had a little, I have to admit, I had a little slump after the AOA threw us out, but I think we've gotten over that.

Speaker 1  2:33:08
It was hard to watch. Yeah, well, it's not just because you, I imagine. It's not just because it's happening to you personally, but it's, it's such a failure of trust. What's the word? It's such a, you know, you've TERT. This is such a huge organization that people trust their lives to and they're go back.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:34
It's on you. It's on YouTube. If you go back to July 2022, there's the video of me in front of the house of delegates, really,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:43
well, you gotta send this to me. It's a little

Bill Clearfield  2:33:44
it's on YouTube, July 2022, and it's, it's a little hard to hear, because the filmer was way in the back, and I was up front, you know, pleading our case. And I did such a good job. It was, it was, the vote was 530 to one

Speaker 11  2:34:01
to throw us out. Up to 542, to one, I think, or something like that.

Speaker 13  2:34:07
You know, we're making it funny and talking about years ago, but it was only last month I had my license taken by the Medical Board of West Virginia.

Unknown Speaker  2:34:16
What happened with that?

Speaker 13  2:34:17
Oh my gosh, my license is gone. They took it. They declared me a threat to society and mentally ill now that, oh my gosh,

Unknown Speaker  2:34:26
40 years to figure that out.

Speaker 13  2:34:31
It's not funny. Really major legal action going on because, just because of believing the same thing we all believe in, which is the truth, I hope, and anything related to natural medicine. For those reasons, I was declared mentally ill, and my license was revoked after a perfect record of 45 years. Oh, my God, so Jeanette, I don't know why you I know you take it seriously for some reason, and maybe that was your daddy. Who was or who was it the test pilot or the Air

Speaker 1  2:35:07
Force flight surgeon was my dad, and his father was a physician also. But you know, for me, what it is is I IN THE 80s, I remember when they started accepting non science majors to medical schools. Feeling is that that's when we lost our base footing for what the truth is. And I think that, I mean, I have my own personal crisis that led me into this field, but it was the biology degree I have that and I love all that stuff, and that which really held my act together was like, I can't deny the truth of this stuff. It's just indelibly true. And so, yeah, so that that's my that's how I, you know, held my own through this whole or held my head together going through this because I felt incredibly lonely, professionally and personally. You know, I still can't explain to my own siblings what I do, because, you know, my God, they go out of control crazy and say horrible thing, horrible, horrible things about me. But I think that that's one of the reasons why, like that they can get away with this crap. My father, my father and my grandfather both have, you know, hardcore science degrees. My father has chemistry degree, and, like my own brother was an aerospace engineer, will say that, you know, Dad would give you hard times. You're saying this stuff. And I'm like, Daddy knew me. I know he would love this stuff, because it's undeniable, and that's why these arguments you have with people like I don't think they could hold their own in a truly scientific, you know, basic physiology, conversation about what you're doing, for what

Speaker 13  2:36:50
it's worth. I did a flight surgeon for 11 years. I was also a tactical military pilot. I went through the secret programs and what you find out, and that was in the mid 70s. Man, I'm seriously old, so by the night, so by the 1990s and it was in the news last week about this year, program that saved the pilot, right? Who went down? Oh, yeah, that program. And that's 50 years old, but the most advanced energetic and electromagnetic, microwave mental control programs are the United States government. They had it down to a science in the 90s. So I have no idea what's going on now, but when it's going to be released. And the anti gravity propulsion systems, that's old shit, and, but the free energy that will probably be released soon, yeah. So anyway, my mouse. Know what it is, you'll let it is, yeah, I can tell you know stuff. That's why I couldn't help but jump in. Yeah, yeah, that's great. Let us know what we can do

Speaker 6  2:38:06
to help. I just want to say they what was the reason they said that they to take your license. That's so scary.

Speaker 13  2:38:15
No, it's I'm one of the lucky ones on my life. Do you guys remember when we had like, 100 doctors die unexpectedly, yep. Okay, so it's better than it was 10 years ago. It was over 150 actually. Yeah. What was that 1015, 20 years ago? I don't know. So I feel lucky to be alive. I try to stay under the radar, but being honest and open the way all of you are, that's a risky thing to do, and we have to face it. And now that we have all of these wonderful people working things out and doing the research, so there's no question about it. So we have the highest minds at the highest level doing the finest research. I think that is possible, and that all comes from this group.

Bill Clearfield  2:39:06
Amen, you let us know what we can do to help you. John, yeah.

Speaker 13  2:39:10
Man, just do what you're doing. Man, appreciate it. Well, I'm

Speaker 1  2:39:15
starting to look at Phthalates and clinical research because I think that that's where you're leading it towards research that's undeniable that will protect this whole please,

Speaker 13  2:39:25
please get in touch with me or Dr Quinn, he's heading that program, but please, please get in touch with us. Dr, dr Tano is Mr. Wonderful, creating stuff, but he's created a software program, and applications will be developed that will allow us to do this research. So Dr Tano made our work 90, you know, 100 times easier. It's amazing what he's done. So we can gather data via his applications, via cell phone. So it costs the university nothing, the medical school, nothing. He's figured this stuff out, and then we can gather and sort data. But we need minds like yours to make it ethical, because that's the name of our group. Is ethical research group.

Speaker 1  2:40:14
Where is that? What it's all about? It's all about information for ethical and moral reasons. I mean, yes, what else? Why else are we doing it?

Speaker 13  2:40:25
That's why we're doing it. Should be and that. And so we have some really, really super smart minds in this thing, and we would love for you to join us and help us with that, because that's about it. Yes, I'll send you lots of information. Fun, awesome. Love it. Love it.

Bill Clearfield  2:40:46
Okay, anybody else coming up here? Okay, so next week, I have a very pleasant young lady. She's 20 or 21 a patient is going to be another patient case, and she's got just about every autoimmune disease you can think of. Oh, wow. And so I'm at a bit of an impasse. She came to me after going to the lime doctors and the who else is around here, you know, the orthomolecular doctors and the and the, you know, the all of that stuff. And so she's got the Hashimotos disease. She's got the positive Ana. She's got positive show grin, she's got positive, you name it. It's positive. She's got food sensitive I did 184 panel food sensitivity test. 120 of and a lot of them are not just, you know, a little bit positive. They're highly positive. So I'm a little bit of a loss. And, and she agreed to come on, so I say, you know, we got a lot of, lot of minds here. We'll, we'll present her. She's, she's very pleasant. And, you know, it's, really a shame, and if we can sort of come up with a plan for her, I think that

Unknown Speaker  2:42:07
I bet the answer's in her history.

Benoit Tano  2:42:09
So what about the young girl who tenured you said had Polycystic ovaries that was going to be presented? I think Did I get that wrong?

Speaker 3  2:42:19
We did a case a couple of weeks ago. Were you not here?

Unknown Speaker  2:42:23
Yeah, where she was 25 at the time, and trauma her

Bill Clearfield  2:42:29
actually, we, you know, we, she's actually doing quite well, okay, yeah, yeah. I mean, her periods are regular now. She's having, she's had a lot less pain, and as long as she sort of behaves herself. And, you know, Does, does what you know, follows the diet that we gave her, and, you know, exercises and gets enough sleep. She seems to be doing she's, she's doing quite, quite well. Did you hear

Unknown Speaker  2:42:53
progestin more often?

Bill Clearfield  2:42:54
Yeah. Mm, hmm. I'll give you an update on her. Yeah. Next time I see her, okay, so I'll probably see her next four to six weeks.

Speaker 1  2:43:04
So I would, I would say that like for the patient next week, I would be my first hunch is that the answers in our history,

Speaker 3  2:43:15
of course, well, go back to doctoring 101. Of course, it's in the history.

Speaker 1  2:43:21
Well, I just want to, like, prepare her that, right? Yeah, place to start, so she can kind of pre think it already, because

Bill Clearfield  2:43:28
it's a lot, yeah, she knows. I'll have her ready. So hopefully, I just don't want to scare her off. You know, she's, you know, she's pretty try not to attack her with quenches. She's been through a lot so, so that's next week, okay, and I promise to have Dr, well, he's not Doctor either. So I promise to have Stefan on to how to present his family practice model. So I have it for May 12. So I know we put him off a little bit, but he will be on,

Speaker 1  2:44:02
yeah, it'll be interesting to know how many of us have cash practices, and how many I still try to work within the insurance model. So I've never been in the insurance model. You're lucky. They don't really know me.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:15
You're not missing anything.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:18
That's cool me, so I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  2:44:20
Yeah, it's you're not. You're not just, you know, as soon as you sign up in an insurance model, you're already a thief and a liar and a crook, and even

Unknown Speaker  2:44:32
opted out of Medicare right away, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:44:36
So we've been out of the I have. We haven't taken any insurance since 2020 and just last week I got a I got a letter from some Blue Cross in Northern California that we got it. We were overpaid $63 and they want a refund.

Speaker 1  2:44:54
Wow, I could think of something really nasty to do back, you know, like put $60 $3 in cash, and wrap it in something stinky and mail it back to them or something.

Bill Clearfield  2:45:06
Yeah, well, well, the problem is, if you do something like that, they, some of them actually have these hidden clauses that now you've agreed to be in their network, and you're stuck. Oh, wow. Oh, wow, yeah. You have to be really careful about kinds of things. Every once in a while, we'll get a check from someone, one of the patients, will send it in and and it'll come to us. And I will, we won't cash them. We send them right back.

Speaker 1  2:45:31
Wow. And yeah, I do use everybody's insurance.

Bill Clearfield  2:45:37
We, you know, we, we had a patient at we did pellets on somebody, and we patient sent it, sent in the, you know, the super bill, and they sent us money in my name. We called them and said that, you know, we don't accept this. And they said, Well, just endorse it over to the patient. And then they tried, it was a Blue Cross. Then they tried to say we were in the network because we cash that, check

Unknown Speaker  2:46:03
it somebody else?

Bill Clearfield  2:46:06
Yeah, so, so you need to be, you need to be careful there, because you know, you know they're gung ho on Medicare fraud. And even if you, even if you've never, even if you don't take it, get these letters.

Speaker 11  2:46:21
How about the bill I just got today? Doc EA the VA sent me to a nursing home for three weeks. That was when I was in a wheelchair, and they now I've gotten a bill, and I'm 100% permanent total lifetime, and it was $11,800 saying they're not going to pay it, and they sent me there. So I'm, I'm going to, I fight it, we'll work with it. But that's the type of stuff our vets are going through. It's ridiculous.

Speaker 1  2:46:53
My dad was a vet also, yeah, yeah, yeah. And he was 100% disabled, yep.

Speaker 6  2:46:59
So yeah, they get so many vaccines, the vets that too. Yeah, and the

Speaker 11  2:47:04
and then the chemicals y'all hear. Everybody hears about Agent Orange, but they don't hear about agent black, that was sprayed most then you got blue. You have gray, I believe you have violet. That's why they call them colors, because they did the colors of the rainbow. Wow, yeah, so pretty deep, wow.

Bill Clearfield  2:47:25
You know, he didn't want any one color to be dominant. You know, you have right?

Speaker 1  2:47:30
I have a neighbor full opportunity. I have a vet, a neighbor who's a veteran, and I've been friends with his wife, and they their first child was has some type of dwarfism, I don't remember what kind, right, and they don't have it in their own genes. So, like, they tested the parents, and neither one of them have it in their genes. And the physician said it was from whatever the heck he was exposed to. And then they have a daughter also, and she's got, you know, she's recessive for it. So she, you know, looks like a normal, you know, normal heighten all, but she has her excessive gene for it.

Speaker 11  2:48:08
Garth Nicholson was one of the main proponents for the cross contamination into family members, and he was the one that he proposes the phospholipids and fossil kiddos, Sarah's serozines And all those. And the bio that DOC has, I forget the name. It's a powerful Wow supplement that we use for our quote, unquote offense. Which? Which one was? It the bio phospholipids. It's there's four.

Bill Clearfield  2:48:42
It's It's Omega three, Omega six, fatty acids, with Phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylcholine as treatment you're

Speaker 11  2:48:50
saying, and phospholipids, yeah, there's like, four of them in there, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:48:55
help preserve the cellular membrane so then it doesn't leave. So yeah, just reminds him about how, like, Lyme disease can be an STD, right? We just really, yeah, we were up there can be an STD, yeah, yeah. And they have a documented case of a woman who had Lyme disease, I suppose it was chronic at that point, and her baby was born with it like they test the baby, like they were in the waiting, they were in the delivery room, you know, to watch this child be born, and then they drew blood on it, and it was positive. So, yeah, it's a bio weapon. It's scary, yep. And I grew up in New Jersey, so and my father, my parents, loved to go out in the woods, so, New Jersey. I'm in New Jersey. Oh, where? What city? Oh, you're in New Jersey. Here's a bottle. Here's a bottle. New Jersey. Girl, it's nice area. Yeah, I grew up in Jersey City. My my two Dr sernas had their practice in downtown Jersey City, my father and his father, yeah, so, hey, I'll just tell you one more thing. I know it's like, super late, but my grandfather, Pedro Serna, was born and raised in Nicaragua, and the government of Nicaragua sent him to the US to get his medical license, you know, to get become a medical degree, he had to come over here and start off with learning the English language. But he was the eldest of the eldest of the eldest, and he brought him and his 15 SIBO, NDL and his parents back into this country. Yeah. So he was actually the personal physician for the president of Nicaragua at the time. Nice, yeah, yeah, that's pretty interesting history. There's a Sterna that is a horrible torturer, and I'm not sure, because

Unknown Speaker  2:50:55
there's always one in the family.

Unknown Speaker  2:50:56
You can just disown that one.

Speaker 1  2:50:59
I've gotten pulled over in security, like I'm thoroughly searched 15 times with my little kids because, and I think it's because that name, wow, but, yeah, I hope he's not related to me, because the Nicaraguan cousins they have, they're distant. You know, we're all all out of there. They say there's no records. They're all been burned. So who knows what the connection is. He's still alive. This guy, I can't remember his first name anyway, that's brave physicians.

Bill Clearfield  2:51:34
Okay, all right, we're good. We'll have the video up when it's ready, probably not till tomorrow, because it's late. I'll send you the contact information, Jeanette, if you want it, Doctor Tano, also, and anybody else for the group, yeah, the video, the video will be on a osrd.org and also on YouTube, on Clearfield medical group. So, okay, great. And I look up the

Unknown Speaker  2:51:59
Saturday event. I'd love to go and listen to them.

Bill Clearfield  2:52:02
Okay, all right, good night everybody's the one who found it. So thank you everyone. Okay, good night everybody. Thank you

Unknown Speaker  2:52:09
for being keep an eye out. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai