Speaker 1  00:38
Hi, William, Yes, Hi, I'm Greg. Nice to meet you.

Bill Clearfield  00:43
Nice to meet you too. I don't see. Oh, there you go.

Speaker 1  00:48
Quick. Question, am I allowed to have so it looks like I'm have my my company's background, background? Is that okay

Bill Clearfield  00:54
if we do? CME, it'd be best if you could blur it. Can you blur it out.

Speaker 1  01:02
Let's see, actually, I could just switch my background. Give me one second you did there.

Bill Clearfield  01:11
You know, you can do it now, and then you do you can do it now, but then when we sign, you know, when we when we do the teaching part, I need you to be as generic as possible. And then when we're done, then you can, you know, go hog wild. But this is kind of a bonus, you know, we we've been doing this for four and a half years now, and the last year, we've been able to get CME credits for some of the I have to go over it afterwards to see if there's anything not kosher in there, because, you know, those people are crazy.

Unknown Speaker  01:47
It's difficult, definitely So,

Bill Clearfield  01:49
but it's kind of, it's kind of a nice bonus that we've able to offer CME credits. It kind of helps us attract a crowd. So, so we have, we have a pretty big following in the Philippines. We usually get at least 15 to 20 on from the Philippines. I don't know if you're you're there, but your company, we

Speaker 1  02:10
are international. I don't know if we've had any Philippines people, but maybe Sure.

Bill Clearfield  02:15
But so some of the folks that we've had on, you know, kind of expanded their their reach if they hadn't been there. And you'll, you'll like them. They'll ask good questions. And they'll, you know, they're pretty entertaining, those folks. So so we like, we really like having them with us. So okay, usually we just, sort of just chit chat and banter until, you know, right around five ish or so, it's when most everybody shows up. So, okay, so and so, I was reading a little bit about your company. I hadn't heard Dr Nario knows all you know. Knows all you people. I don't know anybody. I'm you know. So you know you know him. I take it so

Speaker 1  03:01
somehow or another, right? Yeah, I think he attended one of my webinars, and then that's how we got in touch.

Bill Clearfield  03:06
Okay, good, okay, so, alright, and so just hang out for a little bit, and we'll be good to go. How you doing? Freddie,

Speaker 2  03:18
doing really good. Tried to catch you last Friday, but I guess you took the day off.

Bill Clearfield  03:22
No, I, I'm down in South Reno on Friday.

Speaker 2  03:25
Oh, you did open the other office. Yeah, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  03:29
we opened the, it's a, it's a, it's a Wowzer down there. That's, it's really pretty amazing. So we're yet, you name the alternative medicine therapy we have it,

Unknown Speaker  03:42
it's,

Bill Clearfield  03:45
it's, it's quite, quite the it's quite different than my little place. So,

Speaker 2  03:50
oh, okay, where's the location? It's 9333,

Bill Clearfield  03:56
double double R, double diamond. I always forget it's either double R, Double Diamond, um, there's a Japanese and there's a Chinese restaurant there called jasmine in the same shopping center.

Speaker 2  04:08
I don't know if you know where x double R, right by renowned, by renowned.

Bill Clearfield  04:14
You go past the new hospital and then over the hill, and then it's right there. Okay, okay, yeah, it's, I always forget it's double R or double diamond. I think it's double R. I think it's double

Speaker 2  04:28
R. Yeah, my daughter lives when you go when you're heading east on the Moana extension, right the after you go over the hill on the left hand side. She lives over there. So anyway,

Bill Clearfield  04:45
yeah, okay, so Dr narios here so he can tell us all about his Dr Nario started his integrative medicine fellowship at the Andrew Weil Institute, Arizona, so he's been there two days now. So hopefully, hopefully, hopefully you'll, are you a changed person?

Speaker 3  05:10
Yeah, um, actually, I'm, uh, folding my my jersey up, going to the other team. I'm

Bill Clearfield  05:21
kidding, you're gonna go to the lady who says that, you know, there's no such thing as a as a microbiome, and there's no vaccines are perfectly safe, and glyphosate, What's matter with glyphosate and all of that stuff, right?

Speaker 3  05:36
Well, it's more of a we're doing shrooms over there you're doing?

Bill Clearfield  05:42
What rooms? A

Speaker 3  05:46
lot of nature, nature based therapies. See, he's a big fan of, yeah, like psychedelics, a lot.

Bill Clearfield  05:58
Here's a big surprise, yeah,

Speaker 3  06:00
I hope we're going to have a field trip into Amazon. He likes to go there.

Bill Clearfield  06:05
I was going to, I was going to say, I wonder how come Burgess never got there. It should be right up his,

Speaker 3  06:17
I know, right, but yeah, it's a silver orientation. The cool stuff is yet to come. It's, as I told you, filling up forms, all of these hoops that we have to go through.

Bill Clearfield  06:32
So do you get to you get to be patients on each other? Is that? Is that how it works?

Speaker 3  06:37
Hopefully not. We're I'm looking forward to actually seeing patients who's actually trying these things. So they're saying that they they are already on like, for example, they're seeing seeing shamans. About that for something different. Yeah, you don't see that every day.

Bill Clearfield  06:57
What do you mean? Though, I got accused of being one. Well,

Unknown Speaker  07:02
we're talking about the the real deal.

Bill Clearfield  07:04
It didn't look bad,

Speaker 3  07:09
right? I noticed Greg. Greg, you're a cartoon,

Unknown Speaker  07:13
am I how so? Oh, okay, I

Speaker 3  07:16
thought, uh, you had like an animation behind your back that was moving.

Speaker 1  07:22
I don't think so. The streams are kicking in.

Bill Clearfield  07:30
So you've been there. You've been there for two days. What are you doing? The whole happening? It's like the whole conference, you know? Oh, I muted you. No, I didn't Okay, yeah, I did. I muted you, sorry. All right, I muted you. You're muted. Dr Nario,

Speaker 3  07:50
oh, there, yeah, I know I talked too much now. No, no, it

Bill Clearfield  07:54
was I went to check somebody in, and you got them before me. So alright. Well, what have you learned so far? Don't do that my grand, my nine year old granddaughter. What'd you learn today in school? Nothing.

Speaker 3  08:12
Well, all orientation. Oh, I think what I told you this yesterday that he's not really impressed with a for him, just because he knows there's so much commercialization over there, all the machines and devices and not tested, some of them are even harmful then helpful, and the supplements, crazy amount of supplements that are not even, yeah, tested and vouch for. So he's really critical about these type of things. Okay, so I think it's really us going back to basics of integrative medicine. So the curriculum actually goes for every system, like gastroenterology, oncology, and we're going to touch on the basics of these specialties. Okay, so fun times.

Bill Clearfield  09:07
Yeah, okay, so how long are you there for this stretch here? Oh,

Speaker 3  09:11
it's just for a week. So that's why do you remember those weekly deals that you did with acupuncture school? Yeah, yes, it's almost the same set. It was long enough

Bill Clearfield  09:22
so, so those of you that that don't know what VCR tape was, it was long enough ago that I got sent home with VCR tape, huge boxes of So, so

Unknown Speaker  09:36
plan to watch those videos. Some

Bill Clearfield  09:39
somebody who's got, like, my color hair might remember that, but the, you know, you guys don't remember that. So that,

Unknown Speaker  09:47
beta max,

Bill Clearfield  09:49
huh? Beta max, yeah, well, that was, that was the big rival, VCR and beta max, right? Oh,

Unknown Speaker  10:02
no more, did you announce Noma?

Unknown Speaker  10:10
I think he got cut off his internet. No,

Unknown Speaker  10:14
he's back. I think

Speaker 3  10:16
Is he back? Yeah, he has these issues with the with internet, or somebody's running after him, as he always says, He always has a target on his back, the VCR, the Gestapo, yeah, he's bashing on VCR tapes. So Greg, I think you're working with other with other peeps, right? Like, who's the ozone guy? Yeah, Mike, yeah, so is he? Are they part of this company too?

Unknown Speaker  10:49
Yeah, I don't know if I could mention it now, are we? Oh, no, not

Speaker 3  10:52
yet. I was just curious that, if you're working with them, yes,

Speaker 1  10:56
I work with him, and he's the CEO of that company, and then the other one I work for.

Speaker 3  11:02
Alright, okay, are you part of ozone too? You do ozone stuff.

Speaker 1  11:07
I don't use it directly. I am familiar with it, and I might be getting more familiar with it just by proxy. Working with Micah. He's obviously a big proponent of

Speaker 3  11:16
it. Yeah, they're the family that started, I guess, one of the companies that's related to ozone is it oh three uv, I think it's simply a three, simply 03 right? So they have a rich lineage of ozone users. And yeah, Dad, I think, was one of the pioneers. So I learned a lot from him, so I kind of spoke to him before.

Unknown Speaker  11:40
Jonas,

Speaker 3  11:42
yep, so I think we're just trickling in as you see the numbers getting in there. And yeah, I've been, I've been following your lectures you're doing great with all these different topics that you're doing you, I think the last one was it biofilm you spoke about, or

Speaker 1  12:05
I believe that the one after that was on nitric oxide. And then I have a part two of nitric oxide. I was more so covering the beneficial aspects of nitric oxide last week. And then this week, I'll be covering some of the detrimental aspects, like proxy nitrite and reactive nitrogen, species, things of that nature. All

Speaker 3  12:24
right, good. So you have a lot of topics, we'll definitely get you back in here, either by force or we're going to kneel in front of you to ask you to do more. Okay, sir, Bill, you're on mute. You

Bill Clearfield  12:46
I only get, I only get asked to help, like the fix things around the house once, because I'm pretty bad at it. So, so if you're, if you know, if we, we're, we were fortunate that that to have you here, and then have you, have you back again. You know, it's the price of being competent. So, right? Nobody bothers you if you can't do it right? Exactly. So, so let us, let us begin. Okay, I think it's, think it's time, right? So Doctor Greg nakarelli, And oh, all sorts of letters after your name. Nd, PhD, MS, CNS, cngs, I don't even know what those are. Is passionate about advancing the field of integrative medicine. He embraces cutting edge data analysis practices. He earned a doctor of naturopathic medicine from best year university in California. Master's degree in individual Genomics and Health from Johns Hopkins, a PhD in nutrigenomics, fatty acids and cardiovascular disease and health care, genetics and genomics from Clemson University. He's the director of meta genomics for the American Board of precision medicine is a precision health consultant with therium and self code Doctor nakarelli is an expert in integrative precision health and lectures on integrating genomics, metabolomics, Metro genomics, into integrative medicine practice negative. All right, to get that right, those those words, not too bad. Yeah. I never even heard of those words. You know, 10 years ago, his goal is to facilitate the adoption of omics technologies into healthcare for improving diagnosis and treatment. And you know, as we always say, we will be smarter by the end of this lecture than we are now. So Doctor nakarelli, thank you so much for being with us, and take it away. The floor is yours absolutely.

Speaker 1  14:47
Thank you so much. Doctor Clearfield, for the expert the intro and yes, the CNS is the there's an American Nutrition Association in the United States. It's one of the two big nutrition organizations. They have a board certification for nutrition, and that's what the CNS is, and then they also have a nutrigenomics certification, and that's what the cngs certified nutrigenomics specialist is, just to clarify, okay, So I'm going to share my screen.

Speaker 1  15:21
All right, so I will be covering metabolomic pathways and metabolic syndrome, and so I've already had the introduction. I'm not sure about the doctor and a PhD in genomics. I'm a precision health consultant Ethereum. My goal ultimately is to combine natural medicine with omics technologies, ultimately to improve precision and personalization of medicine. And so for today, I'm going to be covering two major topics. I'm going to be talking about metabolomics, and then talking about metabolic syndrome within metabolic or, excuse me, metabolomics. I'll be covering what it is, how it's associated with systems biology, some core metabolic pathways looking at metabolic rate, some objective and subjective assessments that are relevant to metabolomics, some of the benefits and limitations versus metabol or with metabolomics. And then metabolomics centered patient visit, what does that look like? And then I'll look at metabolic syndrome, look at the pathophysiology, how mitochondrial dysfunction plays a role in metabolic syndrome, and we'll look at metabolic perturbations in metabolic syndrome, and also what you can do with it in terms of interventions. So what is metabolomics? Metabolomics is the study of metabolites present in an organism. You can look at various different tissues to look at this in terms of blood, urine, stool, saliva, there's metabolites found in all those we can make health predictions by looking at these metabolites, and these predictions can possibly impact treatment recommendations or preventative strategies, and ultimately they're going to be impacting the phenotype. So metabolomics, assistance biology, so traditional medicine, looking at things individually and not how they're associating with each other, is reductionistic in nature. And when you look at systems biology, which is essentially system science, it's looking at the relationships of things to each other, looking at relationships of organ systems to each other, looking at the relationships of molecules in the relationship with each other. And then there's multi omics, looking at the proteome, which is the entire collection of proteins, or the metabolism, looking at the entire collections of metabolites. How are they associating with each other? That's more so systems biology, and this is kind of where modern medicine is hopefully moving towards, because it's a more representative demonstration of what is actually occurring in our body. These systems are working with each other, not separate from each other, some core metabolic pathways, most of you probably have had biochemistry, so sorry if I give you PTSD by showing these, I promise I won't go in depth with these pathways, but within these pathways are the metabolites that are being tested within metabolomics and so core metabolic pathways, glycolysis, glyco neogenesis, the pentose phosphate, past pathway making NADPH, TCA cycle, that's a very big one. This is how our mitochondria is going to be generating energy subsequently from that oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid metabolism, synthesizing fatty acids, elongating them, oxidizing them, ketone body metabolism, one carbon metabolism, also famously known as the methylation cycle. Detoxification is a metabolic pathway. There's lots to look at there. I have a example on the right here, phase one versus phase two, detoxification. And there's a bunch of metabolites that are associated with this, neurotransmitter synthesis, urea cycle, nucleotide metabolism, he metabolism, oxide metabolism, hormone metabolism, cholesterol biosynthesis. These are all four metabolic pathways, and of course, there's others that are not mentioned here. We can look into two major categories with metabolism, are we breaking down molecules, or are we building them? And so some catabolic or pathways that break down things, glycolysis, pyruvate processing, TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, beta oxidation. And then there's anabolic pathways. And so amino acid synthesis, the pentose phosphate pathway, fatty acid synthesis, we could put hormone synthesis in here. So there's a distinction there between the two. There's the rate of metabolism. We're familiar with some of these terminologies, but there's our basal metabolic rate. This is the minimum energy required to sustain life. This is at waking state, no food, no movement. Then there's our resting metabolic rate. So it's basically our basal metabolism plus sleeping metabolism plus arousal metabolism, and then our exercise metabolic rate. So this is metabolism during exercise plus our resting metabolic rate. You could look at different metabolite shifts at each one of these stages, and you'll see different metabolism signatures depending on which one is occurring. And I will talk about exercise metabolites a little bit later. We could look at the impacts of macronutrients on metabolic rate. So proteins are going to just have the highest contribution to metabolic rate, especially because they're going to be making enzymes and these other protein components that are going to be generating heat, and so they contribute a large portion of our metabolic rate. Carbs, maybe initially more of a contribution, but certainly not over the long term. And then lipids is a little bit more of a long view of contribution to metabolic rate. Everything is timed in our body, and so our organ systems are going to be metabolically active at different times. And so obviously we have our sleep wake cycle. Different parts of our body are going to be active at different times. Various things can disrupt this, such as shift work, sleep deprivation, Time Zone travel. Aging may alter this, but we can look at different organ systems of When the stomach is going to be most metabolically active. When you look at the liver versus at midnight versus midday, you're going to see different enzyme pathways upregulated fatty acid tissue. You're going to see different these genes here, COVID for adiponectin, which is a compound secreted from our fat cells, we'll see different adiponectin genes up regulated or down regulated different times. And of course, dysregulation of these pathways are associated with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome. So this is where circadian biology is very important when it comes to metabolism and just metabolite testing in general. So general rule regarding metabolic pathways. So as I just mentioned, the time of day is going to affect these pathways. So make sure if you're doing metabolite test, that you're testing it at an accurate time. If you have all elevated metabolites or all decrease metabolites in a pathway, that's not good if you have an high upstream metabolite and then a low downstream metabolite that could indicate several things. It could indicate enzyme deficiency, such as genetic deficiency in nature, or it could be chemical inhibition that's leading to an enzyme deficiency, such as an environmental exposure. Or there could be a low substrate or cofactor. For example, when we look at something like the mth of our gene and lack of methylated folate, we need that methylated folate in order to help convert homocysteine to methionine. And so it's an example where the cofactor there is low upright if you have an upregulated glycolysis and a low TCA cycle. This is a crucial junction point, and so if this is altered, which you'll frequently see, I mean, most famously, because we need oxygen for the whole glycolysis to go through the TCA and then Oxfam, you'll see lactic acid accumulating. But this is indicative of NADH accumulation by ATP levels. There could be enzyme deficiency or inhibition mitochondrial dysfunction, which again, could lead to metabolic syndrome, and this is also seen in aging as well. You see glycolysis is higher and the TCA cycle is going to be a little bit lower. So what are some subjective assessments in metabolomics? So these are just general questions you want to assess within a metabolomics visit, we want to be assessing energy. It's probably the most obvious one was energy upon weight gain. What's energy throughout the day? Does someone experience post meal fatigue? Want to be assessing body composition and somebody had recent weight gain or weight loss, increase in waist circumference, dietary assessments, all those ones, a 24 hour intake. Diet, diary, diet recall, dietary preferences, allergies, sensitivities, what supplements they're taking? Physical activity, level, what is the frequency, duration of exercise? Are they sedentary? What are their lifestyle habits? Sleep assessments. How much sleep are they getting? Are they well rested? Do they sleep well? Do they wake up feeling tired? How long does it take for them to fall asleep? You're going to include biometrics and all of these as well. There's there's that add on component to multi omics, where you're also incorporating all that biometric data. So family history as well. So Does somebody have a family history of diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure, high cholesterol or metabolic syndrome, and then obviously, do they have a current history of metabolic disease, of any of those things. Objective assessments in metabolomics, so body composition, body mass index, which is BMI, waist to hip ratio, WHR, bio impedance analysis, I'll talk about that in a little bit. Blood pressure, temperature, respiratory rate, pulse and a nutrition focused physical exam, nutritional deficiencies or excess, in some cases, is going to disrupt metabolic pathways, and by doing a sufficient nutrition exam, you may be able to uncover those without even doing a metabolomics test, although the metabolic steps can further confirm your physical exam suspicions.

Speaker 1  25:02
And so one thing, when we're looking at body composition, where is fat deposited. Having excess fat is not necessarily a bad thing, but it's the visceral fat, which is primarily more inflammatory, more associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and systemic inflammation. And so it's this excess visceral fat around the midsection which is particularly problematic. So that's one thing to be looking out for. There's something called me about metabolically healthy obesity and metabolically unhealthy obesity, and it's the difference between having more subcutaneous fat than visceral fat in these metabolic healthy individuals versus these metabolically unhealthy individuals, you'll see increased visceral fat. And so it's a big differentiator between somebody who might be overweight, but they have normal insulin sensitivity, normal glycemia, normal blood pressure, versus somebody medical metabolically unhealthy, have resistant insulin resistance, type two diabetes and some other risk factors there, of course, BMI, we already know what that is. This is looking at their weight over their height. And there's a chart based on where their weight and height is, what is too high or too low. There is something called a metabolic BMI. So people took BMI of individuals, and they looked at metabolites for these different pathways here, nucleotide metabolites, amino acids, lipids, and they were able to predict a or calculate a metabolic BMI with these individuals, to predict their their their risks here, and they found that people with a higher metabolic BMI where had a at an increased risk of insulin resistance, genetic risks and other cardiac events. So that's kind of interesting waist to hip ratio. Essentially, you don't want your your waist to be too much bigger than your hips. This will differ between men and women. For women, being above point eight five is at high risk. It's more than apple shape. And then for men, anything above one is considered high risk for the waist ratio bio impedance analysis. If anyone has ever heard of this, essentially a device, it's these like metal plates. Some of them have this the where you stand on a bare foot and then you hold these metal paddles in your hands and shoots a electrical signal through you. And this signal that is going through you is seeing what it hits. So it's looking at how much water, how much fat, how much muscle is it hitting. And from that information, it's calculating these things, how much fat, free mass, body cell mass, total body water, intracellular water, and so other things, there's a lot of these on the market. I From my understanding, is between devices. It's probably not that accurate, but if you stick with one device, it's mostly accurate. So just make sure you're not, you know, trying a bunch of different devices, but it seems that these have gotten more reliable over the last several years. Blood pressure. So if somebody has high blood pressure, it's indicative of some type of metabolic dysfunction, especially endothelial dysfunction. And so that's not a good thing. That's something to measure, to extrapolate how much metabolic dysfunction is occurring. There's something called metabolic hypertension that is occurring due to this metabolic dysfunction. One thing to note, too low blood pressure is also not good. If you look at risk of cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome, you don't want to be too low. Everyone talks about too high blood pressure being a bad thing, and yes, it's concerning, but don't. Don't be on too low end either. There is temperature. And so there's, like, significant amount of people, if you're not measuring your temperature with your patients, a lot of people are not 98.6 they're like, 96 they're like, running low. That is, their metabolic rate is low. They're just not, uh, metabolically efficient, and so you're going to see some health effects of having mild hypothermia, but it is associated with metabolic dysfunction. So it's something to keep in mind there. What is contributing to temperature? It's a lot of these processes here, so oxidative processes are going to be contributing percent to our metabolic rate. Mitochondria, proton leaking in our mitochondria, 20% sodium, potassium, ATP aces. This is where having mineral sufficiency is important, protein synthesis contributing to this, gluconeogenesis. And then there's various other processes that are ATP consuming, but this is what's generating heat within our bodies, respiratory rate, essentially, if it's too high or too low, that could be associated with metabolic dysfunction, particularly metabolic acidosis, which is which the rate has altered the pH negatively, or metabolic alkalosis, where the blood pH is too high. So that's another thing to measure. Again, if you're using a biometric device, this is likely being measured. But something else to keep in mind pulse, and so there is a distribution of what a healthy pulse is in men and women. One thing to know is, as we get higher in our quartiles in terms of our pulse, the higher the resting pulse, the higher the risk of developing metabolic syndrome is. And you see this trend in both men and women, especially in men, nutritional assessments. So basically, everything on the exterior you can assess. You could look at the hair, you could look at someone's ability to smell, looking within the mouth, mouth, taste, tongue, teeth, gums. You look at your one skin, one snails. You could do vibratory sensation to see how that's impacted. There is a lot of content here. I did a couple webinars on this. So if you are interested in in going over this, looking at those webinars, those have already been recorded. We could talk about that after this. But it's especially important to do a nutritional focused physical exam. So within a metabolomics visit, some goals. You want to collect and track the subjective and objective information I just mentioned. You want to reaffirm the goals of the patient, practitioner performing the metabolomics assessment. And so what has been their baseline, baseline health assessment? Is it condition specific, or is it just general health optimization? You want to establish a level understanding metabolomics with the patient. So do they know what it is? Do they know what metabolites are? Have they done metabolite testing before? And metabolomics testing before? Most people think it's genetic testing. You genetic testing is the risk of metabolic dysfunction, or metabolite dysfunction. You could test MTHFR. I just say that one, because that's one. Most people know. MTHFR is one of the key gene that makes methylated folate, and people could have risk variants in it, and then it leads to dysfunction the methylation cycle. But how do you actually know your methylation cycle is dysfunctional you? I mean, and there's symptoms that you could do, again, the subjective, objective assessments, but the actual output of that would be the metabolite shifts, shifts in homocysteine, shifts in methionine. There's actually a bunch of other metabolites part of methylation. So it's the it's the actuality of genetic risk variants. And you can actually figure out what genetic risk variants are present by just looking at the metabolome. An ideal world. I like both information, but it's, I'd say that's one of the main confusions I see amongst well, not just patients with practitioners as well. Infusing a metabolomic test with a genetic test, you want to set expectations, and so let them know what role metabolomics plays in their health care. What are the benefits and limitations of metabolomics, which I'll cover in a second, the health assessments and protocol identification that metabolomics is helping to elucidate, and you want to determine the depth of the review. So within metabolomics, there's all these pathways. And, you know, I just mentioned biochemistry, there's ways to simplify this, which I'll talk about in a little bit. I think it comes down to the educational standpoint of your patient. Some people know metabolites, and that's what they're looking for in metabolomics test. Some people don't at all. They just want to know how their metabolome or their labs are impacting their health, and so it's it's key to make that distinction. So some benefits limitations and so some benefits of metabolomics provides an in depth look at pathways occurring in the human body. It's more personalized health assessments. It can serve to improve clinical strategies in terms of diseases assessment, health promotion, diet, lifestyle and supplement intervention recommendations. It can assess the impact of environment on our metabolic pathways and our metal unlike our genome, which your genetic expression will change, but the genetic sequence is not going to change change for the most part. And so you can retest to see how there's shifts in the metabolome that are occurring, some limitations of metabolomics. And so usually when you do a metabolimit test, it's one sample at a time. Usually it's either blood or stool or urine. So there's that limitation. There might be changes in one or the other. The timing of the sample collection matters, as I showed earlier, the the metabolic is going to express in different times in different parts of the body. There are confounding variables that will cause erroneous health associations. And so you want to make sure you account for those when looking at metabolomics, the depths of analysis is going to be dependent on evaluating accurate health information. And so when you do metabolomic testing, baseline health information is collected. And so you have to make sure you're collecting the proper information. For example, if somebody's on certain supplements that's going to affect their metabolome. So you want to make sure you're accounting for things of that nature. And then you have to look at metabolic, metabolomic information within the entire clinical picture.

Speaker 1  34:55
You don't want to just do metabolomics and completely ignore all those, the subjective and objective things. You want to make sure that it's all making sense, because then it's kind of irresponsible you do it just the other one. So there is the artificial intelligence, machine learning aspect of this. And when you're looking at collections of metabolites and making associations between metabolites, the data intensivity gets a little bit difficult for a human to grasp. So you might look at one metabolite and associate with a health outcome. Say, you look at LDL, and we know if it's elevated. Well, I know, I know that's probably up for debate. Some people are fine with LDL, but let's just say, generally speaking, if LDL is elevated, we know that this possibly increase in the risk of cholesterol. Risk of cholesterol. When you look at the entire metabolism, there's trends. So let's say these five metabolites are high. These five metabolites are low. When you look at the trend, what are the health associations with that? This gets to a level of complexity where you need to have some level of artificial intelligence to make those connections, and then machine learning, which is kind of from the data and from the experiences that it's presented, can learn from these data sets. Okay, when these metabolites are like this, and when these metabolites are like this, this person's presenting with this. And so that's how machine learning is working. So that's how metabolomics is best working you get all the information possible from the individual sources of metabolites. What disorders are they possibly? Do they have? And you do the metabolomics testing, usually it's mass spec, so and there's GC, MS, GC, mass spec, gas chromatography or liquid chromatography, just depends on the how they want to process the samples, and then the machine learning data analytics occur, where they're looking at those associations and making predictions based on the metabolites. So this is an interesting thing. So digital twinning, essentially you have the entire history of the individual. You have their symptoms, you have their health history, their background, their previous diagnosis. Supplements are taking everything. How do we know how we could favorably impact them? So what can be done is a digital twin of that individual can be created so we make a copy of that individual and we see, how can we shift the metabolism in that individual if we were to do one intervention? So let's say we do co Q 10, so we expose that digital twin to that to CoQ 10, and we can calculate how that's going to shift their metabolon. And so that's one intervention. Okay, let's now add carnitine. Let's see how that's going to further alter this digital twin in terms of what we're predicting. And so this can be done exponentially many times over. In order to look at what can we possibly do to create the most beneficial outcomes for this individual based on their metabolism and based on this upfront information. And so what this graphically looks like is, is this. And so this is the process of that happening. We are each one of these. This is a health score that is created from the individual, from the metabolism. I'll cover that in a second. Actually do I cover that next? I don't. I will I, because there's a couple interesting studies doing health scores from metabolites for metabolic syndrome. So you could create a health score essentially for different areas of health, let's say insulin sensitivity or cardiovascular disease risk. And so the way the metabolites look at tribute to health score, that health score is the metric you can use to see how those interventions are shifting. So for example, here's their health score. It's looks like it's a 50. We do one intervention and it bumps up a little bit, and then we do another intervention and a bumps up. These are other, let's say, failed digital twins, where the interventions that were suggested just were not actually improving, the health score that was decreasing. And so we could find the right recipe by looking at what protocol, diet, lifestyle, nutrition, medication, supplements, what have you will have the most favorable impact on the health score over time. And so this is how artificial intelligence can help us. Otherwise, it's kind of guessing. It's maybe a little bit biased. Maybe there's some I certainly as a practitioner before I was using technology like this, or some supplements I liked, some supplements I didn't like. So that's the thing. Is, when you use artificial intelligence, it makes it a little more objective in your assessments. And when you give it enough data, you could be more precise. I mean, this is what I'm mentioning here, is precision medicine. So it's using those inputs. I know this is, I'm just talking about this from the aspect of metabolomics. This, realized, is looking at the entire metabolic so if you had someone's genome, someone's metabolism, someone's microbiome, looking at the biometric data and their health history, that would be the ultimate data Compendium to figure out precisely what interventions we could do that would most favorably have an impact, and what interventions we might want to avoid. So that's digital twinning as an add on to select the interventions from the information gathered from the metabolon. And I know that's a bit of a complex thing, so, you know, we'll have an opportunity to discuss that after because I'm sure questions about it. But digital twinning is actually a newer thing that's being done in the health industry, I believe. Well, I can't, I don't know if I can name companies. There's a certain airplane company that originally developed it, and now people are adopting it to health. There's like, oh, that could actually work pretty well for health, health purposes, all right, metabolic syndrome, so this is essentially a cluster of health conditions that can occur together, high blood pressure, high blood sugar, excess belly fat, abnormal cholesterol, and this associated with risk of numerous different diseases, cardiovascular disease, type two diabetes, stroke, Alzheimer's and various others. It's characterized by insulin resistance, oxidative stress and inflammation. If we look okay, well, this is the prevalence of metabolic syndrome. Some areas are pretty good, Washington, California, Colorado, and then we have some not so good areas that have a very high rate of metabolic syndrome. I mean, in some cases, more than half the population have metabolic syndrome. So it's actually not good. The state is from 2023 and it does not seem to be going away. Traditional diagnosis, we're looking at waist circumference, triglyceride levels, HDL, blood pressure, fasting glucose, and three of any of these five features is diagnosed, diagnostic of metabolic syndrome. We could also look at other things that can be co occurring with this, such as microalbumin in the kidney, elevated uric acid, other types of blood glucose parameters, such as two hour fasting blood glucose or or glucose tolerance test. So there's other tests that can indicate that there's metabolic dysfunction occurring, and it could further itself to the diagnosis of metabolic syndrome. When you look at the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome, as I mentioned, there's inflammation, so tumor process, factor, interleukin six, CRP, these are elevated. We have excess free fatty acids, high leptin, low adiponectin, increased Ross, increased Ren and energy intension, aldosterone, system activation. This is resulting in these not so good things, chronic inflammation, insulin resistance.

Unknown Speaker  42:42
So the

Speaker 1  42:44
microbiome will impact our metabolic syndrome. Risk elevated levels of Firmicutes and bacteriodities, low Bifido and Lactobacilli and some other ones I'll talk about a little bit, such as acromancia, the this associated with dysbiosis, some metabolites that are high from these more westernized diets, calling carnitine, trimethylamine oxide. I think our microbiome will impact how these are being metabolized. If you have a healthy microbiome, I don't think these are as much of a concern, but most people that are eating more westernized diet don't have a good microbiome, so these become more problem. Some you'll see elevated pro inflammatory molecules such as lpss Certain tryptophan metabolites leading to endotoxemia, inflammation and subsequently metabolic syndrome. Whereas in a more healthy gut microbiome state, where you have elevated levels of Bifido and lactobacilli, on something such as Mediterranean diet, you'll see increased sourcing fatty acids, which will decrease inflammation and subsequently decrease our metabolic syndrome risk I mentioned the mitochondria was crucial for metabolic dysfunction. Lots of different things can mess up our mitochondria, high caloric intake, mutations in our mitochondrial DNA, excuse me, environmental toxins, homeostatic imbalances, gluco lipo toxicity, which is going to alter our mitochondrial intraticulum and interactions, all leading to mitochondrial dysfunction. And what that specifically means is our electron transport chain is not going to be transporting electrons properly to do the respiration process, which makes ATP, it's going to be leaky. So you're going to have Ross leaking out, which is going to lead to lots of not good things. It's going to alter insulin signaling, lead to cell death, increase oxidation, and ultimately will lead to insulin resistance, elevated blood glucose levels, which is going to increase our picture of metabolic syndrome. So you want to have metabolic balance, and so in a more balanced state, our nutrition is good, our environment is good, our genetics, if we have risk variants, are not hurting us too much. We want to be avoiding food allergens. Have low GI tract inflammation. We want to have balance in our metabolism, and oftentimes with something like metabolic syndrome, there's there's great imbalances. So what metabolites are associated with metabolic syndrome? So there are many studies on this topic, just to highlight a couple. And if you've not looked at metabolic studies, they they look like this. There's lots of dots, there's lots of points. There's molecules you might have never heard of, and then there's molecules you have heard of, fucose, which is from brown seaweed, methylmalonic acid, you'll see changes in these. Methylonic acid, if anyone's familiar with associated with B 12 metabolism, you'll see low creatine Pyro glutamic acid will be altered. This associated with glutathione metabolism, and so you'll see certain changes that are occurring in metabolic syndrome. When you look at pathways, arginine and proline metabolism, oftentimes with most diseases, you'll just RG metabolism is thrown off for whatever reason. I believe this is supposed to take glutathione metabolism, whether there's an M there, but glutathione metabolism is going to be altered. Taurine is part of the glutathione metabolism pathway, and so it makes sense that we would also see that this is, this actually way altered. And so you'll see those things dysfunctional. What is also done in these studies, not just associating with metabolic syndrome, but the hallmarks of metabolic syndrome. And so we could also look at these individual things. So waist circumference, what metabolites are associated with that, BMI, metabolites that are associated with that, triglycerides. So it's interesting, this fucose, this is brown seaweed is supposed to be a metabolic activator, and this, this is very low, not only metabolic activator. It helps activate our body's ability to burn fatty acids. You look at these people with elevated triglycerides, this few coast is very low. So it's, it's a makes sense. You could look at classes of pathways. And so obviously, within metabolic syndrome, you're going to see free fatty acid metabolites, alterations there. Carnitines. Carnitines are crucial for our body to burn fats as a fuel. So it makes sense. You'll see dysregulation there. In that pathway, glycerophospholipids, there's all different types of these. And so you'll see these dysregulated and various different diseases. It seems like when the body is ill, it just doesn't process these glycerol phospholipids properly. Some of them we've heard of, like phosphatidylcholine, phosidonositol, whoops, amino acid, serine, glycine. You often see those dysregulated arginine as well, like I mentioned, and TCA cycle of course, heat to embody oxidation, you'll see alterations in these metabolites as well. So as I mentioned, you can create a health score. So looking at the metabolites, you can create a score. And based on those scores, you could put people into quartiles. And so you can score dyslipidemia, score, blood pressure, score, fasting, CP, blood glucose and just metabolic syndrome in general. And what's nice about this is it's difficult to look at just a bunch of metabolites and those pathways, but if you could attribute a score, it makes it clinically useful, because as a clinician, you're busy, and it's simpler to look at a score. If somebody, if comes in to your clinic and you do a metabolomics test and they have like, a 40% metabolism or metabolic syndrome score, you do work with them, you see the score go up. It's looking good now and and from that, you could look into what is going into the score. And then that's where you can get into the nitty gritty details of looking at individual metabolites, how they are shifting, contributing to changes in the score. But the score is helpful nonetheless. And so with that information, as I mentioned, we can gather a lot of information on somebody to do the data analysis, not just our metabolome. We could look at the microbiome, we could look at the proteome, we could look at non omic factors such as socio economic status, age, sleep and stress, and we could use that information with AI to make more personalized interventions and recommendations. So traditionally, what is recommended for metabolic syndrome, lifestyle promotion, which is going to vary based on the person that's administering it. Medications, of course, statins, fibrates, Metformin, Acarbose, glucan, like peptide, it's a infamous one now, so lots of different interventions are traditionally recommended for it, we could exercise. It makes a huge impact on metabolic syndrome risk. When we look at exercise, we could look at changes in the metabolism and how that may be impacting our health. As I mentioned before, carnitines are very important for fatty acid oxidation, and so you'll see changes with those when it when someone, an individual, is exercising. This one, indole lactic acid, is a very anti inflammatory molecule. You'll see shifts there. So you'll see various shifts from exercising on the metabolism that's going to help with metabolic dysfunction. Risk. There's, there's many different ones that have been studied. This actually one of my favorite ones. Ba, i Ba, there's something you could actually supplement with if you want. But if you exercise, your muscles will make it and it has many different actions and increases adipose tissue Browning, which is good one. It has brain benefits, increases fatty acid oxidation, also alpha ketoglurate. It's another one that's been associated with anti aging benefits as numerous benefits from exercise on muscle and brain and bone loss. There's many different diets. Of course, Mediterranean diet is the most well studied one for metabolic syndrome, but there's other ones that have been shown to be beneficial. DASH diet, plant based diets, and so that that could varies based on the starting point of the individual probiotics, many different ones, particularly in humans. What have been studied is lactobacillus gassery. These specific strains have been associated with decreased metabolic syndrome, risk that's in humans. In rats, there's been several others that have been looked at. So looked at, those were pre those were probiotics. These are prebiotics. Be careful with prebiotics. And individuals with gut issues, especially SIBO, though, if their gut can handle them, they've been associated with various different benefits for decreasing metabolic syndrome risk, mainly through helping increase these probiotic bacteria that we know are beneficial metabolic syndrome post biotics. I really like these especially it helps answer the question, if somebody's been on antibiotics their whole life, how it is it contributing to them getting sick more often they have cleared their body's ability to make these anti bacterial antiviral substances because we've killed them off. But if we had a healthy microbiome, they would make it for us. Plus mileage is another really interesting one that has a particularly cognitive benefits. Our microbiome will make it and many other different things, especially short chain fatty acids, is the most well studied, one different vitamins,

Speaker 1  52:27
different enzymes, so lots of different things made from a healthy microbiome that will help with our risk. Acrobatia is probably one of the most popular probiotics over the last several years, numerous different benefits on metabolic syndrome. You'll find if you test this on individuals that are metabolically unhealthy, you'll see low levels of it or undetectable. Sometimes it's not in them at all. So different foods can help increase the growth of this, such as cranberry and pomegranate, and I've seen some companies actually marketing this as a supplement, as numerous different benefits on the metabolism, and, of course, bioactives, so from the diet, all these different things here, coffee, green tea, curve and they have been well studied to have numerous different impacts on various facets of metabolism, and especially those markers associated with metabolic syndrome, we can shift those in order to help decrease our risk and move us in the right direction. Bergamot is one of my favorite ones for hypercholesterolemia, hyper triglyceride, hyper triglyceride. Mia. Cinnamon is another really good one. So so just through diet and spices and herbs, there's a lot, lot we could do to move the needle. All right, so some takeaways. Metabolomics is a study of molecules, metabolites and their health and disease associations. Table, omics provides key insights into normal versus pathological metabolism. In practice, we should consider a a metabolic centered, subjective and objective assessment in conjunction with analyzing one's metabolism. So don't do one without the other. Metabolic syndrome associated with dysfunctional metabolism. And so pathways that you could look at or that have been found to be dysfunctional with metabolic syndrome include arginine, proline, glutathione and Tari metabolism. There's other fatty acid pathways that I mentioned will be dysregulated if you look at specific metabolites, methionic acid, like I mentioned, Pyro glutamic acid, phosphatidylcholine and indo amino acids will be altered in metabolic syndrome. And you could use digital twinning as an intervention to help select appropriate interventions to improve metabolic health risk scores to decrease metabolic syndrome risk. And with that, I thank you for attending, and I will take questions at this time.

Unknown Speaker  55:02
Thank you. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  55:04
that was great. Okay, we have a bunch of stuff in the chat. First off, here's the CME credit link, and it'll be in our email as we get every week that we do. And I'll put it on again. Somebody asked if the slides are available. I don't know how you feel about that. Greg, I can make it. Yeah, if you're, if you're okay with that, if you send them to me, we'll get them out to everybody. If you know, if you don't some, some of the speakers don't want to, that's okay. How do you determine degree of Brown versus white fat? That's

Speaker 1  55:42
a good point. There's probably like, biopsy would probably be necessary to do that, though, I would say also exercise performance, like people that are athletes are going to have more brown fat. They're going to be just more metabolically active. People in colder climates are likely going to have higher brown fat. So, you know, I think there's some, like, subjective assessments, but you'd probably, my guess is you'd have to do a biopsy, but it wouldn't surprise me if there's some metabolic tests out there, like I mentioned that one, it's called Bible beta amino isobutyric acid. That one is associated with more brown fat. So we, I don't, who knows? Maybe we, maybe we are there where you can just test metabolites to determine that that ratio. I bet there's athletes that would love

Bill Clearfield  56:33
to know, what are your favorite supplements or strategies to go to convert white fat to brown fat. I

Speaker 1  56:44
would say most of them is lifestyle, to be honest with you, like exercise, cold exposure, but I would say by you can supplement with Bible. There's another one. It's called grains of paradise. Is another one that increases uncoupling protein, which will basically uncouple these proteins from our mitochondria to burn it as heat. And so I would look at things that altered that as well. I believe cinnamon is another one that does that. But I was about reservoir patrol.

Speaker 3  57:18
Yeah, there are some I can chime in on that cup season. So activates TRP one to do its thermogenesis. That's pretty obvious. And also, yes, you mentioned about cold exposure. So people think they need, like a cold bath, to deep, to dip into it, to get that that thermogenesis going. But you actually need, actually, just cold showers are enough, but you have to probably stay in there for 15 to 20 minutes. So the temperature would be usually 16 to 19 degrees Celsius. So you probably, yeah, that can partially stimulate those brown adipose tissue, tissues to, I guess, trigger UCP, UCP one, and then also supplements such as resveratrol, as you mentioned, curcumin, Berberine, vitamin D, and also caffeine. Has been mentioned and discussions before,

Bill Clearfield  58:16
so we get for sending you to Andrew wild school, huh? You know, does the does the BIA assess bone strength and density? I

Speaker 1  58:29
don't think it's measuring the density, to be honest. I think it's, yeah, it's just looking at fat mass, water water weight, right? Muscle mass, but not necessarily bone density.

Bill Clearfield  58:41
Okay, what are the top five to eight blood markers to correlate with body inflammation?

Speaker 1  58:48
Well, so you have the obvious ones, like CRP, HS, CRP, baritone. We have some cytokines, interleukin six, interleukin one. Those get a little more pricey when you get into the cytokine, interleukin testing sed rate, which is more of a crude measure of body inflammation. I don't know how many that is, but yeah, there's a lot of different cytokines. For people with more advanced immune concerns, you can run a cytokine panel, which is looking at basically the landscape of the the messaging molecules between the immune system and and trends in that tumor crisis. Factor alpha, I forgot that one as well. TGF beta, what you could there are health associations you can make from that in terms of certain health and disease states.

Bill Clearfield  59:35
Can you line up? I had this crazy idea once I was going to line up disease entities with the cytokines that are produced for each one, and then match them to herbal remedies and supplements, and, you know, Chinese herbs and even acupuncture and even medications. Is that? Is that a sort of a way to go? You know, especially when you somebody sitting in front of you with what I call misuginosis, you know, everything's wrong with them. And you know, where do you begin?

Speaker 1  1:00:10
No, absolutely, yeah, because they are well characterized. There's been a lot of research that is looking at the impact on different inflammatory mediators and cytokines and whatnot from different herbal compounds, some of them, like turmeric, just like have a whole dampening effect on the entire Not, not as not in a negative way, but if there is excess inflammation, it quiets it. So that's absolutely possibly doable, but it's probably a little off targeted. But who knows, maybe there are certain herbs that have particular decreasing like, for example, Perilla fruit sins is particularly good at lowering il four. So some have been well studied. I don't know if it's just because they studied it that it does that, or maybe that's just how it is. But yeah, I would say that's totally doable.

Bill Clearfield  1:00:57
Okay, what about low dose naltrexone, which has a, you know, broad range of any cytokine property, you know, effect,

Speaker 1  1:01:05
yeah, no, you could probably apply that same strategy to medications as well. Obviously they're going to have likely a more profound effect. Something like NSAIDs are going to obviously have a bigger effect, cortisone, but, yeah, absolutely okay. And I'm sure there's probably studies that have elucidated such impacts.

Bill Clearfield  1:01:28
Someone's someone's asking your your opinion on eurolith, which is a hot topic, euroleton, a I

Speaker 1  1:01:35
actually, I added to my supplement stack last year, I've gone on it, I've gone off it, I've gone on it, I've gone off it. Every time I go off of it, I notice a decrease in just my overall health, my fitness, my exercise, and I'm just going to stay on it. So it's what's unique about it. A lot of things that activate mitophagy are because when you activate or when you inhibit mTOR, mTOR is needed for muscle growth, and so the things that like caloric restriction, yeah, it's anti aging, but it's not necessarily good for your muscles. It's going to increase your muscle and bone density. But the nice thing about your lithune A is it seems to be activate autophagy in our muscles while also strengthening them so it's, it's like increasing your longevity while not, it's increasing your lifespan while not decreasing your health span. So I'm a big fan of it,

Bill Clearfield  1:02:33
alright? So the next obvious question is, what about rapamycin?

Speaker 1  1:02:38
So my brother is also a doctor. He did a lot of rapamycin research. I had the privilege of doing research with him many years ago, and I feel like rapamycin, it's, it's a powerful substance. It's, it's the most powerful. I mean, they call it mTOR, mammal, million target of rapamycin. It's literally named after the drug that they discovered because of how profound it was to target it. I know people that take a low dose, and they're doing it for anti aging purposes. I've had patients that go on rapamycin and you need mTOR to activate and mobilize your immune system. So I've had people with immune dysfunction because they've gone on rapamycin, and now they're getting mouth lesions, and they're getting sick, and they're getting flus, and what, what the heck happened? I wasn't sick like this, and rapamycin kind of dampened their immune response, and now viruses are constantly checking to see someone's immune status, and if they are vulnerable, they will activate. And I and I see, I've seen in this people, they've activated, also an autoimmune people. I've had people with autoimmune disease gone rapamycin, and it's gotten worse, so I am very cautious what that so there are numerous anti aging strategies possible before I even consider something like rapamycin. I'm asking if they've done all those other things before they even consider rapamycin, because they're just safer.

Bill Clearfield  1:04:00
Okay, for someone with polycystic ovaries and insulin resistance, which I think is sort of included in it, right? In addition to lifestyle changes with adding acromancia Or a pre pro post biotic make a shift,

Speaker 1  1:04:16
I'm going to guess that that, yes, there's probably studies that support, that information for somebody to have an insulin resistance they likely have, or for them that PCOS, which, yes, will include insulin resistance, my guess is, because endotoxemia is going to lead to inflammation, which is going to to disrupt the insulin signaling, especially in the ovaries. And so by shifting the microbiome and decreasing that that endotoxemia, they're, they're going to decrease that insulin resistance that's occurring, and acromancia is good for that. So I but I would test honestly before someone goes on it. I'll be honest. I did a trial one with akkermansia, and I had a not that good response to it, but I actually didn't assess. So I'm actually, I'm going to do a microbiome test soon to see what my actual acromancy levels are. I suspected, because acromancy is a muse integrator, you don't have too much so with, as with any probiotic, you don't have too much or too little. So I would actually assess your levels before you supplement.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:18
Okay, B, I b, a is ever used in someone on a GOP agonist?

Unknown Speaker  1:05:24
I don't know.

Speaker 1  1:05:27
I want to say no, but Well, somebody's exercising. They're they're making Bibles, so maybe, but probably not, but they probably, my guess is, they would synergize while looking at the actions of glyphs and viva.

Bill Clearfield  1:05:46
Okay, I think I know the answer to this one, but I didn't ask it. So how does statins help metabolic syndrome when their effect is mostly on total and LDL cholesterol, but not on HDL and triglycerides, which are involved?

Speaker 1  1:06:02
Well, so my concern with statins is they can lead to mitochondrial dysfunction, and mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of metabolic syndrome, and for somebody to have metabolic syndrome, it's statin is not necessarily. It's not treating the cause, and that's my concern, and Statins have other off targeted effects. They can arguably increase arterial calcification in some individuals. Some people don't metabolize it well, so they can have myostitis as a result of the mitochondrial dysfunction. So I am not that much of a fan, and I'll believe it that. But some people, because there's a difference between soft and hard plaques, and individuals with soft plaques, you actually do want to do calcification, because you don't want the soft plaques to dislodge. So, I mean, there can be certain individuals where it is beneficial. I just, I think, in the typical person, where they're not at that advanced stage. I mean, the American Heart Association recommends diet and lifestyle first before jumping this first before jumping to statins. Not that doctors actually do that, but we should try.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:08
Okay, your opinion on Metformin? Are the benefits worth the risks for anti aging?

Speaker 1  1:07:14
Yeah. So Metformin is a bit of a inhibitor of our oxidative phosphorylation, particularly complex one, and has been associated with especially B 12 deficiency. So there are risks there. With that said, it seems like if somebody is not doing anything, they're not doing diet and lifestyle, and they're overweight, they're not in good shape. Yeah, I think Metformin is probably worth the shot, but I still think you have to do the root cause managing for going on something like, something like a Metformin, yeah? Wants

Bill Clearfield  1:07:48
to do that. It's that's too much work. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:07:52
exactly right.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:54
Okay, Doctor Nario, do you have some email questions? Yes,

Speaker 3  1:07:58
well, thanks Greg for a great presentation there. I think some of these questions are from your slides, and they're asking, I think you mentioned about protein right as a high percent contributor to the basal metabolic rate. So would plant or animal source be a big difference there? Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:08:24
I think, I mean, let's just say those proteins got into the body, because then there's a question of bioavailability. Is one more bioavailable than the other? But if those proteins got into the body, and it's the well, then the question is, do particular amino acids contribute more to metabolic rate? And I didn't go to that extent, so I'd have to look at that, because the the spectrum amino acids is going to vary between plant versus animal based proteins. I mean, I would, my guess is animal based proteins would have a higher metabolic rate, just intuitively, but I can't say I've seen research to suggest that,

Speaker 3  1:08:56
right? But yeah, that. I think that that's what the question was. And then there's another part of your slide that, I guess aging related to maternal program. I think they're asking what that means on your slide. And if you remember seeing that

Speaker 1  1:09:16
aging maternal programming, Oh God, I have to really like Alden. Do we have in what context was that measure or mentioned?

Speaker 3  1:09:28
Yeah, so anyway, you can come back to that once you see it. So I'll try to help you out with that. I'll try to find the slides as well. So somebody's asking, you mentioned about metabolomics, how can they differentiate this with the other terms, transcriptomics, proteomics? And maybe you can give examples for just the audience to get a clear view of these specific terms,

Speaker 1  1:09:57
sure. So we have genomics. That's the entire collection of our genes and genomes. And so we have DNA. Our DNA is consists of, well, mostly not genes, but there's genes. We have roughly 20,000 genes. We have variations in those genes, and those variations can impact our health risks. And so genomics is looking at those genes and the variation in those genes and what health associations we can make from that. That's the genes, the genes that get converted into an intermediary molecule called RNA. That process of DNA getting converted to RNA is called transcriptomics, and so transcripts are associated with health effects. So then there's transcriptomics, looking at the entire collection of transcripts we have proteomics, and so those transcripts get coated into proteins. And so we could look at the proteome, or the entire collection of proteins, and those proteins form molecules, and we could look at the entire collection of molecules, and that is our metabolomics. And I think that's all of them. There's other ones. There's lipid omics, looking at the entire collection of lipids. There's glycomics, looking at the entire collection of sugar molecules. There's a lot of omics out there, right, right? Are they clinic? And the difference is, what ones are at research stages and which ones are at like, ready for the clinic. So that's a that's a big difference as well. Well with

Speaker 3  1:11:25
you, with your metabolomics here, of course, you're talking about these specific lab parameters that we need to look out for clinically. Is that correct? I'm sorry, what was the question, the metabolomics that you're pertaining to in your discussion are more of the the labs that you're suggesting for us to look at as clinicians in assessing our patients. Is that correct? The ones that you just discussed, those

Speaker 1  1:11:51
were metabolites. That's metabolomics. Yes, all right, okay, although I did include some microbes, so that would be, I forgot to mention, microbiomics. So that's looking at the entire collection of the microbiome. So, yeah, that one's called meta transcriptomics, where you're looking at microorganisms and their their transcripts as well. So there's, there's different facets in the microbiome as well, right? Okay,

Speaker 3  1:12:15
you mentioned about, I guess, tryptophan metabolites in relation to, I guess, aggravation of dysbiosis. Is that what you meant in one of those slides?

Speaker 1  1:12:28
Yeah, so there's a weird thing that occurs, and there's lots of different types of tryptophan metabolites. They're indoles, and some of them are good. Some of them are not. It seems to be when you look at most research, surprisingly, most of them are not. When you look at tryptophan, can go down, so it can make serotonin. This is where serotonin is in the gut. It can go down chironic acid pathway or quinolinic acid, which is pro inflammatory. So my guess is, on those studies where they found those not so good, try to fan metabolites in the presence of inflammation or an oxidative stress, they will go down that quinolinic acid pro inflammatory pathway. So that's what my guess is, when they're mentioning that,

Speaker 3  1:13:09
right? And that's also this, this pathway that you just described, gets accelerated when there's a huge stress response involved with that also, um, another one would be why this year side say ACE or ARB is better for metabolic syndrome compared to other, I guess, prescription medicines,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:34
ace, like ace or ABS, yes,

Speaker 3  1:13:37
ACE inhibitors or ARBs that, I think that was a slide that you had. Slide 46 Do you remember seeing 46 so

Speaker 1  1:13:52
I have a slide of typical drug interventions.

Speaker 3  1:13:56
Yes, drug intervention between patients with metabolic

Speaker 1  1:13:59
disorders. Yes, so at least that's clinical guidelines. I'm not saying I advocate for that. That was more so looking at what is traditionally recommended in a clinical context, I certainly don't recommend ACE inhibitors and ancient attempts and blockers, but those. I'm just using that as an example of some medications that are used in metabolic syndrome conventionally.

Speaker 3  1:14:21
Gotcha, I'm assuming I'm, well, of course, diabetic, for example, diabetics would definitely benefit from Ace or ARBs, just because of the kidney protection it provides. I mean, I don't know if that's what you meant by that, but clinically, as I use ace and our ARBs, I use it in that context. Another one. I think you showed different types of carnivore I guess diets. Is a carnivore diet also something that you could classify that would be beneficial for a patient.

Speaker 1  1:14:52
I've seen studies go both ways, and it is a few. It's a very, yeah, there's a lot of people that are proponents of carnivore diet, and there's been and there's been studies that have shown that it's decreased insulin resistance, and there's studies that have and then the question is, are, is there healthy user bias in those studies? What were the quality of meats? I'm going to guess there's, it depends on so there's genetic variation. Some people do better with metabolizing protein, metabolizing high fats, and some people don't. So for example, the Apo E gene, those individuals don't do as well on saturated fat. They don't do well transporting cholesterol, and they do have higher risk of insulin resistance on with higher saturated fat. So I think there's nuances to it that are genetic that might account for why somebody on a carnivore diet will have lower versus higher parameters that are associated with metabolic syndrome. But I think it could be potentially

Speaker 3  1:15:52
beneficial, okay, and I think with the you mentioned about a metabolically healthy individual, individual so the mho, m you, oh, I think that slide, I remember this, yeah, and they're asking, should do we still try to be applying aggressive approaches to get somebody out of mho? Or is mho pretty feasible in terms of the goals for health.

Speaker 1  1:16:23
Yeah, you know, one thing to think about, when somebody gains a lot of adiposity, it's a, it's a evolutionary adaptation. Yeah, think about, you see these heavy individuals, how many people passed away because their body just couldn't handle the excess fat. Sometimes, there's the, you know, this, my 600 pound life people, it's, it's a marvel at the adaptation. So they're storing fat to be used as a later source, because the body doesn't know and they're not going to have a fuel source. So excess adiposity is not always bad. But with that said, I mean, it's, I think that's an extent how much fat does it get to the point where they are fine otherwise, all those other objective measurements I've mentioned, it's hard to find somebody that's obese and they don't have high blood pressure and they don't get out of breath from just walking. So, you know, if somebody all those objective measurements passed, I think, you know, but I would still do something. I mean, especially if somebody's obese, but like I said, I think it's rare that I've found somebody that's is obese and they don't have some of this other issues. The the main difference between metabolically healthy versus metabolically unhealthy is that visceral fat, and usually people that are obese, they have excess visceral fat. So let's say it's more common, especially in America, to be metabolically unhealthy, obese, and it is to be metabolically healthy,

Speaker 3  1:17:47
right? And I think just, I think they said it was slide 11 in relation to the aging and maternal program. I

Unknown Speaker  1:18:03
uh, because my slides aren't numbered here, but

Unknown Speaker  1:18:06
it's the circadian rhythm slide and metabolism.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:13
Oh, okay,

Speaker 3  1:18:17
it says aging and underneath maternal program. They were just asking what that means?

Speaker 1  1:18:23
Yeah, I'm going to guess that that is making some association that during pregnancy, our circadian biology is altered, but in what way? I don't know so that so. But anyway, that's my best guess is that while a woman is gestating, her circadian biology is altered.

Speaker 3  1:18:50
I think you got all my questions out. Thanks Greg for great presentation. Absolutely. Thank you so much. I think you're going to promote your stuff, right? Sure. Dr Bill, you have more stuff there for the chat.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:02
No, we're good.

Speaker 1  1:19:05
Okay, okay, well, so we're good to go. Okay, I so, I think I was mentioned. So I work for a company called theorem. We offer a metabolic test. Thank you so much, Julie. We offer a metabolic test. Well, we offer a metabolomics test, and we recently rolled out a microbio mix test. And so if anyone wants to speak with me about that test, we have 126 metabolites. We have 12 different health domains that we look at, to look at various facets of health, such as cardiovascular health, immune health, inflammation. And then within our microbiome, there's, there's lots of content. We look at their microbiome integrity, inflammatory potential, nutrient metabolism, sour shame, fatty acid metabolism. So if anyone would like to meet with me to speak about that, I'll put a link in the chat. Give me one second. I

Speaker 3  1:20:06
do you have, like, a sample slide? Do you want to show, or you just want to connect with with them guys? I

Speaker 1  1:20:11
could, I could show a sample slide. If that that works. Well, here, let me, I'll pull one up real quick, so

Unknown Speaker  1:20:21
at least they have an idea or not what you guys offer.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:24
Absolutely no, that makes

Speaker 1  1:20:33
sense. So this is a sample report. The metabolic test we have is called the Aristotle. And so within this report, these are the health domains that I mentioned. So we have aging, nutrition, inflammation, mitochondria, cardiovascular, gut and our cognitive and we rank them in categories, and we create an overall health score. We have a predictor of how somebody can improve their health score with the interventions that we select. I'll get to that in a little bit. We have our domains here, and we show the metabolites that we measure in order to calculate the this domain. So for example, for aging, we look at sarcasine, niacinamide, which is a precursor for NAD some mitochondrial metabolites, some fatty acids, biogenic amines. And so you could look at the different metabolites that are included within each health domain. And we have this listed for all our health domains here, and we also have all our metabolites list at the bottom of the page. And so if you were trying to figure out, what is this metabolite, what is it associated with? You can look at its score, the description of it, what are the implications of its low, what implications of its high? So we have all that information. And then after our metabolite sections, I mean, we do have a methylation section as well. So I mentioned those. There are metabolites that are associated with methylation. So you could measure these metabolites as well. We have our digital twinning section. So from that health score, we create digital copies of the individual, we expose them to different interventions to see how we can we shift that health score most favorably, and that is how these interventions are selected. And we'll have various different supplements, lifestyle interventions, dietary interventions. So there's, there's lots of different things here that we have listed. So this is our metabolite test. And then we have our microbiome test. This is a whole genome sequencing test. And most microbiome testing on the market is looking at 16 S ribosomal RNA. This is actually sequencing the genome of any organisms present in the sample. And what's nice about that is you could get down to the strain level of organism, which is where the research is heading. Not just do you have lactobacillus or bifided bacteria, but what strain of those organisms do you have, and what health associations can be made from those So from this, we have different things that we could determine, not just bacteria, archaeo, microbiome that is fungi, virium, digestion, nutrient barrier. So there's a lot of information we cover from this. We score it. This is a whole thing, and if you meet with me, I'll go through this in a little little more thorough fashion. But there's a lot of content we generate from here. And just like the other metabolome report that I've mentioned, we also do a we have a way to different probiotics. Here we have, we do the digital 20 for this as well. So we include different pathogens, parasites. I'll go over this more in depth if you decided me with me, but as I scroll through here,

Speaker 3  1:23:37
pretty extensive. You get all of this in one shot, huh?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:41
Yep, just from a good old poop scoop.

Speaker 3  1:23:46
And this is almost similar to the technology of I think microbiome labs. Is that correct versus the Genova still tests. Is that correct?

Unknown Speaker  1:23:55
Yes, 16 s,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:56
because you're using 16 s, right? You

Speaker 1  1:23:59
know, I'm actually going to a conference for microbiome labs this Saturday, which is occurring near me. By chance, I'm not that familiar with their microbiome test, but I'm going to learn about it. So yes, it is different from genovas. I don't think they do whole genome sequencing. Most you

Bill Clearfield  1:24:14
don't. You could, you could sign on to the Nevada osteopathic medical associations conference on Thursday at 515 Pacific. And you you can learn about the GI map just I've

Speaker 1  1:24:27
actually, before I started working for Ethereum, I used to use the GI map a lot. Gi map is nice. The GI map is it's it's obviously, because it's not whole genome sequencing, it's not as comprehensive as this. And one thing to account there's a difference between doing like targeted microbiomics, like I'm looking for these 10 or 12 or 20 organisms, versus whole microbiome sequencing, as you're looking for the entire collection. And when you do it on that scale, you could look for more sweats of organisms. So you know, if you're looking for, does somebody just have acromania? Do they have Clostridium? Do they have streptococcus? What? What levels are they at? The GI map is nice, but it's not metatranscriptomics. It's not looking at the entire collection. So it's, it's a bit limited, well, but

Bill Clearfield  1:25:17
again, we're, we're talking to the Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association. So just getting them to look at anything like that is is a is a coup. Yes,

Speaker 1  1:25:27
I think doing microbiome testing in general is good, and I'm a fan of that. There's a couple entities any microbiome testing company that does not tell you the amounts of organisms present, that's what I have an issue with. So if you were to do this test, like, for example, scrolling up here, so we have a detection limit here, let's see if I can find a good one. Okay, so for example, C diff, so we have counts per million, so anything that's quantifying it. Because if you do this test, and you do I've never got to the digital twinning section. If you do the digital twinning section with the interventions you any you do a retest, you would expect to see shifts in your microbiome, but there are some entities that some companies, that don't give you a number, and I don't like that, because then I can't see the shift that is occurring. So that that's really my own issue with microbiome testing is they they are purposely vague, because they don't want to give people numbers, because they don't want people to take those numbers and calculate other things from it. So

Speaker 3  1:26:27
so for the digital twinning you could actually simulate any supplement, and you would see what the result would be on a on a subject.

Speaker 1  1:26:37
Yeah. So within our digital twinning database, we have, what we have listed, we have understood the metabolic impacts of it, and so by knowing that, then we could see, if we were to add said intervention, how would it impact it a similar process. So obviously, the microbiome is not the metabolism, but we could see how by especially when you're using a health score, it makes it easier to see how these shifts can can move. So, so yeah, you can look at those shifts that are current from those interventions.

Speaker 3  1:27:16
And then you can select anything, or you guys will provide that for

Speaker 1  1:27:19
we, so for digital twinning to be most accurate, we collect what somebody is doing up front. So what the digital twin will sometimes recommend, if somebody says, I'm on mitochondrial support, actually, I'm already taking CO, Q 10, I'm taking carnitine, I'm taking B complex, you will see in the digital twin, hey, keep doing this. It's working. So if they're already doing something, it will confirm it, but it needs to know what you're doing, so then it can recommend what you're not doing as well. And so that's a key part of it, but it'll make recommendations based on what it thinks is going to shift your individual health domains and your overall health that's the idea behind it.

Speaker 3  1:27:58
Does it include peptides, other IV therapies or just supplements.

Speaker 1  1:28:03
There's been a couple peptides listed, no IV therapies. That'd be nice, but I don't know, yeah, something to add, right? Yeah, no, that, yeah, that would be good.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:15
Well, it's a little complex, though, these IV therapies, they have so many things in,

Speaker 1  1:28:20
yeah? I mean, there's a lot of legal stuff too, especially in California, it seems to be IV therapy seems to be under attack. So it just, you know, it gets tricky.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:28
Is this exclusive for providers only?

Speaker 1  1:28:32
It is not just physicians. I mean, there's people that are dentists that order the test. There's people that are masters levels, nutritionist, as long as they have a scope to practice some form of diet, lifestyle, nutrition. But we do not have this open for general public.

Unknown Speaker  1:28:53
Oh, there a question, how much

Speaker 1  1:28:57
the this test? So, okay, hold up the microbiome test, we retail it for 1100 we sell two practitioners for 600 the metabolite test, we retail it for 750 we sell two practitioners for 400

Unknown Speaker  1:29:12
it's not bad, very reasonable.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:16
Yeah, absolutely

Bill Clearfield  1:29:18
okay. And to get started with your company. I know you put it in the chat, right? Yep,

Speaker 1  1:29:24
so you could click that link to meet with me. Um, I'll also put my email in the chat here if anyone wants to reach out.

Speaker 3  1:29:32
I like the twinning part. That's pretty unique. I've never seen that with other companies. Yeah, it's our

Speaker 1  1:29:37
biggest selling point. There's other metabolite testing companies. Um, before I worked with Ethereum, I use them, and so I know what metabolites I look for, and I know what things I like to do. But that's the thing is, when you look at associations of metabolites, it gets complex. And the chief scientific officer, his name is penise jasby, he had this calculation where the levels of complexity that wind up compounding when you look at this metabolites this way, and this one's this way, and this one's this way. How can you grasp what intervention is going to favorably affect all those metabolites, and how would other interventions compound that it gets so tricky that the human mind you have to use artificial intelligence and the that applied is digital twinning, and we are, to my knowledge, the only commercial entity that is currently offering that as a process. And for busy practitioners, they really appreciate it, because it kind of takes the guesswork out of what interventions to do. They're they're listed for you. And you know the idea is, you do that, you improve your your health score, your health domains, and obviously your health but yeah, if anyone's, if you have any questions, feel free to sign up, uh, reach out to me with any questions, and otherwise, um, thank you guys for having me. I appreciate it.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:57
Thank you so much. Thank you. Anybody else have any comments or questions? Thank you so much. So thanks, Greg, you young guys making your way in the world here, and this wasn't around when I was 40 years old. You know,

Speaker 1  1:31:16
none of this stuff, the cost of gene sequencing, the cost of testing is getting cheaper and cheaper, eventually it's going to be available, accessible. I mean, people talk about doing whole genome sequencing at birth so people will know when they're born what predispositions they have, and there's tests looking at all those ohms that I mentioned, microbiome, metabolome, transcriptome, it's going to get so cheap, it's going to make these like, you know, a lipid panel looking at cholesterol, triglycerides, nature. It's going to make it look silly, I would say, within the next couple decades, and we're going to see all the health associations. And as a natural by the doctor I, you know, I study genomics, but I believe the largest contributor to health is one's environment. I think the impact of the environment has not been adequately recognized by the conventional medical community. That's what my hope it is, is that as we uncover these ohms, we will see how certain environmental exposures shift it, such as exposure to PFAs, or exposure to plasticizing compounds, or glyphosate like you, you mentioned, we have a we have a glyphosate disrupts the chicken MC acid pathway. It also disrupts tryptophan metabolism. You could look at metabolites, and I've seen people that have symptoms of glyphosate exposure. They acknowledge that they have glyphosate exposure because they've used Roundup. And then I look at their metabolism, and I see shigam acid disrupted. I see their trip to fame metabolites disrupted, and I could let them know, hey, looks like your metabolism has been perturbed by glyphosate. I've actually asked the chief scientific officer just to make a domain just dedicated to it, just to say it's glyphosate. But, you know, that's to be determined. But anyway, that's what my hope is for the future, is to get to that level of detail. But we're at where we're at.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:09
Okay, so, so like I said, I'm doing this thing on the microbiome, and turns out that probiotics, there's specific probiotics for specific wellness or well entities, and then disease entities also specific probiotics for h pylori and SIBO And so that gets, getting pretty, pretty specific, I think so, yeah, it absolutely

Speaker 1  1:33:43
is. I had a meeting today with one of the leaders of the microbiomics because you could do the same thing. You could create health scores just from the microbiome. We know what microbes are associated with metabolic syndrome, associated with Alzheimer's, associated with diabetes. So and then with that, you could then know what organisms can shift those states. It's getting very precise and personalized. That's where medicine is hopefully Heading, Heading.

Bill Clearfield  1:34:12
So except for, except for big medicine, I don't know. I feel like it's I

Speaker 1  1:34:16
don't know I'm optimistic. I feel like I'm more optimistic than ever. And I'm usually not that much of an optimistic person. Optimistic person, so, but maybe I'm wrong. Maybe my my faith is misplaced, but meetings like this are were are helpful, shifting that

Bill Clearfield  1:34:31
this, this was great. And what were some of the other topics that you you had mentioned them when you, when you first started, some of your other topics that you said you just been lecturing on?

Speaker 1  1:34:40
Yeah. So, you know, as we create new panels, we're looking at new pathways. The most recent one I looked at was nitric oxide metabolism, and so I looked at beneficial processes from nitric oxide and then possibly harmful. So that could be something I speak on as well. We may offer a genomics test in the future, so that would be a whole different thing. I don't know when that would be coming about. So, yeah, there's lots of pathways to cover, and lots of diseases to cover, and lots of disruption on metabolic pathways from diseases.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:18
Okay, great. We are offering. We're

Speaker 1  1:35:21
going to have a onboarding program, and all that content is going to be available for everyone. So there's lots of different metabolome information on the environment, on all those domains I mentioned, like inflammatory cardiovascular we've

Bill Clearfield  1:35:37
been happy to spread the word, you know, with from our on our members. So we send out 678, 1000 emails every week. So you know, if you get two or three,

Speaker 4  1:35:50
it's not too bad, okay, eventually it'd be up

Bill Clearfield  1:35:56
to 10, right. Okay, so, Alright, that was great. I hope that we can reach out to you in a short period of time, couple of months, and have you back for another, you know, topic, this was really fascinating, and for us more mature practitioners, you know, all this stuff is all brand new, and it's, you know, you know, teaching old horses new tricks is not an easy thing to do. You know,

Speaker 1  1:36:25
no, I hear you well. Doctor Clearfield, thank you so much for having me. Doctor nariam,

Bill Clearfield  1:36:29
thank you. Thank you. Yeah, yeah. So, okay, so first of all, this week, if you're available, Thursday, Friday, well, actually, Wednesday starts tomorrow. The van osteopathic medical associations. Midwinter conference begins. It is online, and I don't know what the cost is. I'm not sure if you don't use do CME credits, I don't think, I think you can just get on you go to Nevada, osteopathic.org I mean, just their homepage. It'll take you right there. So they start tomorrow. Most of most of that. There's a lot of if you have state required CME credits, we include all of those. We do our group. So Dr Palas is there now, already I'm doing, as I mentioned, a couple of talks. And Stefan Hartman is going to be online, doing some talks also. So you know, if you're, if you're online, that'd be great if you have, you know, if you're, you're available. I have the, the the link right there. There's the link for the CME credits, and it'll be in next week's email. Also, it's always the same little link. Here it is the EDS com, slash em, slash em, and then whatever the number is for, for that, that's the number for the talk tonight, next week, we have Doctor Donald Dennis, one we've had him on before. He's a mold specialist. I think he's an ENT. He does a red light no that that we were supposed to have red light therapy. Dr Dennis is in the shoemaker camp. You know, we have the push and pull between Dr shoemakers camp and Dr Campbell's camp. So urine tests and binders versus urine tests are no good and binders are no good. I don't know if you you familiar with with the these two crews. So we like to take, you know, take in from everybody. So next week, we're going to see doctor, Dr Dennis again. He I think we had him on about two years ago. So we'll see if there's any, any update. Week after that, we're going to have al Sanchez is on. We're going to learn about poly MVA. Doctor Nario now down with Andrew Weil is going to be bringing us updates period, you know, you know, regularly, and maybe he'll find some other interesting speakers,

Unknown Speaker  1:38:49
the mushrooms. I'm telling you mushrooms. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:38:51
anybody who's got any topic you want to cover, you want covered, or you want to cover one for you, for us, let me know. And I think we're seriously thinking about so Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association also does a summer conference. It's in Las Vegas, though, which is 114 degrees at midnight, but it's, you know, we stay indoors. And I think our group's going to see if we can present a parallel track. We've, we've got, sort of got an inside attack for AMA and AOA CME credits that way. So if anybody's interested in got any any interest in that, let me know. Any vendor companies want to be involved. Let us know also. Doctor nakarelli, so,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:43
I'll talk to my CEO about

Bill Clearfield  1:39:44
it. Okay, alright. Thank you so much. Anybody else? Have any comments questions, all of our new folks? It's nice to see new folks here. We'll put you on our email list, if that's okay with you. If you don't want it, just say, you know we don't want you, and we won't, we won't annoy you again. I always like to say, Bring one new member, and we'll double our census. We're, you know, we, we're doing really, really well, I think, considering all the tourists that we've had over the years here so and other than that, I see a couple of my patients are on here, and it's nice to see them. Doctor Robin, it's good to see you. I think we need to get you involved here, speaking for us also. Anne Marie, how's doctor Dr Burgess, he's he wasn't on tonight. I don't know if you're listening. Maybe not. Okay, all right, thank you everybody. Like I said, online, if you're, if you're not in the Lake Tahoe area, you know Reno northeast, you know Northern Nevada area. And you want, you need some CME credits. I think they're pretty reasonable. And I'm like I said I think if you just want to listen. I think you can just get on, you know, without the CME credits. So okay, we'll see you next week. Same time same station, Dr. Nakaralli Thank you so much. And we'll be in touch. Okay, thank you so much. Thank you all.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai