Speaker 1  00:08
Okay, let me get get home before we get Started. Who's on there? Channel? Okay,

Speaker 2  02:40
Bill,

Bill Clearfield  02:41
Dr Nario, I presume

Speaker 2  02:46
you are right. How's the conference? Did you go? Did you go to San Diego?

Bill Clearfield  02:52
No, I didn't. No, San Diego was the end of the month.

Speaker 2  02:55
Oh, okay. I thought you were in San Diego.

Bill Clearfield  02:57
No, no, it was last month. I was in Florida, and the guy, the guy, the guy that that I was working with for my FM, they fired him something. I got him. I got an email. He's no longer with them.

Speaker 2  03:14
That doesn't affect your presentation, right?

Bill Clearfield  03:17
Well, I got, I got a message from one of the big honchos there. He said, Well, I'll take over for now. Where are you? So I just because I he had me revising it, so I finished it on Friday, and I sent it to him, and I haven't heard a word since. So

Speaker 2  03:33
he just got the best luck the guy,

Speaker 3  03:39
I

Bill Clearfield  03:39
said he'd only been hired there like a month. When he went, when he signed me up, he'd only been there like a month, he said, so, yeah, I don't know.

Speaker 3  03:47
I don't

Speaker 2  03:48
think they're going to mess it up. It's too close to the to the date. So

Bill Clearfield  03:53
he wanted me to redo the slides. And then I never, I kept not hearing from him. I figured, because I you know, you know how you do those slides? I never, I never. I'm never done. They're never good enough.

Speaker 2  04:06
No, I think you're gonna go. Just get ready. I think you're still going.

Bill Clearfield  04:11
My mind were too they were too complicated. They want them simple and clean. You know, you know, I had too much information on them.

Speaker 2  04:21
Did you have you presented this to us? Or,

Bill Clearfield  04:24
yeah, I not in the form they wanted. But yeah, I have, actually, yeah, I've done it a few

Speaker 3  04:29
times.

Bill Clearfield  04:30
So

Speaker 2  04:32
yeah, don't make

Bill Clearfield  04:33
it. So here I can sort of just talk away. There they give me a half hour and then 15 minutes of questions. So, and they have their form, you know? And they have their formulas, you know, it's, it's a slide per minute.

Speaker 2  04:47
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  04:48
that's their formula. That's their formula. But, you know the firstly, so, so, so I had 72 slides, originally, 62 slides, I said, but the first three is the cover slot, you know, the title page, the financial disclosure, any objectives? So there's three right there. Then I had, you know, I did, when I talk about hormones, I always put, like a, put a page that just says testosterone or cortisol. So I had five of those. So those don't really count. So there's eight right there, and then I had five pages of, you know, the references at the end, you know the the list that

Speaker 3  05:31
are

Bill Clearfield  05:32
right I had five pages of that. So that's 13, there's 13 slides right there, so there's 49 so that's, there's your, there's your, he kept insisting. I, I said, I mean, the only one I'm going to talk about is, you know, I'm going to give you, give you once the things up there, when you go up there, you know, cover slide.

Speaker 2  05:54
They're so strict about the number, huh?

Bill Clearfield  05:58
Well, I had, I mean, I got it down to 49 out of 50.

Speaker 2  06:02
Yeah, I mean us in a for him, we just, they're just telling us, just to make sure you're done. We don't care how many slides you have, but just make sure you're done with the time that you're given.

Bill Clearfield  06:16
Yeah, I remember I was a moderator for them once in one of those afternoon sessions and and there was a really nice lady in India, from India, you know, she had a bit of an accent, and she was talking, and she was going on and on and on. And, you know, it was like, was my job to get her off? Yeah, yeah. They said I was rude to her. I mean, she was like, she was like, 20 minutes over. You know, it's like

Speaker 2  06:44
she complained about you,

Bill Clearfield  06:46
not she, but I, they wrote it. They wrote it in the, in the in the in the, you know, in the in the evaluations.

Speaker 4  06:54
I don't know, I

Bill Clearfield  06:54
didn't ever heard.

Speaker 5  06:57
Can I ask you guys a question?

Speaker 6  07:00
Yeah,

Speaker 5  07:01
so is a poison toxicity question. My daughter lives out in the out in the rural country area in North Carolina, and a farmer was spraying across the road, and she was unaware of it. She was near enough that a gust of wind carried spray concentrated right across the road, enough distance, this is probably under 100 yards, and covered her with a chemical called grazon. It's a herbicide, G, R, A, Z, O, N, and she ended up with quick sunburn, like, you know, erythema across all skin surfaces. And thankfully, her, her one year old and husband were further in another field, not another field, but down the pasture kind of thing, and only got a whiff of it. They all took showers. And anyway, she texted me about a half hour afterwards, and because of their panic and going through stuff and trying to get the person to stop and notifying people and that kind of thing, but I didn't know if you guys had any particular ideas of what you use to try to detoxify, I had her take, they have, they have

Bill Clearfield  08:18
Doctor Patel's On with us that she's the expert on that.

Speaker 5  08:23
Well, they had carbon 60 on hand, so I told them to spray their skin with that. That is a helpful thing in poison or toxicities and burns and that kind of thing. And Sarah's going to, you know, keep hydrated and use a sauna to try to use their skin to detoxify the poison contaminant. Anyway, I was just wondering if you had any ideas poison control. I called and they just said to watch out for signs and symptoms and seek emergency help if something worsens. But

Bill Clearfield  09:00
that's a big help.

Speaker 6  09:03
Yeah,

Speaker 2  09:04
I would do. Have you heard of Apple signer vinegar baths?

Speaker 5  09:08
Yes,

Speaker 2  09:09
yeah, that's that one I like, because there's a lot of patients of mine that are, you know, they're landscaping people or spraying or, I guess, ground up, and they get sprayed on. They splash their dogs run on there, and they start to not feel good. So apple cider vinegar, bath, diet, hypertonic solutions that actually can remove these toxicities while they're still on the skin outside.

Speaker 5  09:36
Yeah, will the apple cider vinegar irritate the skin?

Speaker 2  09:39
No, no. So what you're going to do is, there's water, you're going to dilute that during the tub, and then five to six cups of apple cider vinegar, and you just dip in there for like, 2030 minutes. Yeah, it's just, I've done that not only for Roundup, but, you know, people also think of chemtrails, right? You heard it, yeah, so. But just when, when people kind of correlate it that way with the, I guess, I guess skin, skin contamination of anything. So that's something that I've, I've seen, pretty effective,

Speaker 7  10:18
alright, just her arm.

Speaker 5  10:19
I will pass it on to them. You know, you mentioned about chemtrails every Thursday morning, at 6am in our area, planes fly over nearby, over the East Palestine area of Ohio, western border PA, and make a design of about 25 trails intersecting like a chest, like, you know, x and it always, you know, hash marks,

Speaker 3  10:44
yeah,

Speaker 5  10:44
every Thursday morning, starting at six, and they're done probably by 730 or whatever. And then slowly, through the day, they just fade, and then it becomes cloudy.

Speaker 2  10:53
It's like Tic Tac Toe in the sky.

Speaker 5  10:55
Yeah, exactly.

Speaker 2  10:58
We have that here. I don't know if you've seen that doctor

Speaker 8  11:01
bill, Doctor Nario. There's Dr Patel, wondering, when you say that, soaking in the apple cider vinegar, and it goes away. And they're, they're fine after that. So, so you are, you're talking mainly clinically, or your because, you know, if skin absorbs it, it depends upon the duration, for how long and at what concentration, because the toxicity pattern and the kinetics,

Speaker 2  11:36
right, that's true. So

Speaker 8  11:37
one of the factor and and they can have accumulation over the time. Maybe they are fine because the large part is removed, but may not be all part is removed because the absorption is going to be there in toxic kinetics, and they may be able to mobilize, depending upon their capacity to detoxify, but, but because they they were fine, does not mean the repeated exposures are doable, right,

Speaker 2  12:14
right? Yeah, of course, yes. When you get the systemic now you have to mobilize your liver, your kidneys as well. So these are the ones that I actually have acute exposures to. So when they say that people were spraying outside, they don't feel good. So I tell them to acutely just run into an apple cider vinegar bath. So of course, the systemic part, you will see them if the apple cider vinegar bath did not reduce the symptoms. You know now it's becoming a little bit more systemic. It's like a catch up, trying to just rescue the the situation.

Speaker 8  12:48
This is, this is mainly for the animals or the people.

Speaker 2  12:52
Oh, people, actually,

Speaker 8  12:54
if it is a people, then, then you, is it? Is it? Is it apple cider vinegar in a warm bath or cold bath, or what?

Speaker 2  13:03
Just warm bath is something good, just because it will open up the pores.

Speaker 3  13:07
Yeah,

Speaker 8  13:08
so opening up the pores is a it's a double edged sword, right?

Speaker 2  13:13
Sure. Yeah.

Speaker 8  13:15
Okay, so the obsession can be enhanced too, right?

Speaker 2  13:19
It can. It's just that when, when you have that, when I have those, those calls, when people call me for their patients call me for that, it's really just immediate exposure, and they don't feel good. But yeah, you're right. Once you get into those chronic toxic like farmers now you need, you know,

Speaker 8  13:37
random 20 years before it manifest the toxicity, talking about the acute versus chronic and effect on the neurological system. And yeah, it may be that there you, what you are trying to do is to kill their panic factor. So,

Speaker 6  13:59
yeah,

Speaker 5  14:01
thanks, Melvin. We're

Speaker 8  14:02
doing doing something. They're doing something for for reducing it. And you think that activated charcoal works for it that remains to be seen. I What? What have they done that anything externally to see that makes the the different concentration of Roundup and different concentration of the activated I mean this carbon, not activated carbon, but the carbon 60 or six. What is carbon 60, right?

Speaker 5  14:36
Yeah, there the inventor, Dr gretzka, he

Speaker 8  14:40
gave the talk one time.

Speaker 5  14:42
Yeah, he's done a couple, and he has commented that the donor product, you know this, this carbon molecule, can act to inactivate toxins or poisons,

Speaker 8  14:57
right? But, but you know, that is a very generalized statement, I

Speaker 5  15:01
understand, but you know when you got nothing and you're standing there and you read, hey, let me put like this. The same instance, you could pick up a scalding pan and burn yourself. And I've had this already happen repeatedly that people contact me and tell them to spray carbon 60 on it repeatedly over x couple hours. Keep doing it. The pain subsides, the redness subsides, and in many of them never blister, or if they did blister, the blisters are gone in the morning. It's been terrific for burns. It's been perfect for sunburns versus just thermal burns. And so I take his word for it. You know, it's not like I'm around poisons all that often, but you know, you use what you have, and I make sure all my kids have bottles of carbon 60 around to use for emergencies.

Speaker 8  15:46
So the I mean, bentonite clay would bind it, and we know that. So I would

Speaker 5  15:51
good idea

Speaker 8  15:52
if somebody tells me that they are using bentonite clay, I mean, you know, it appeals to me because I know it binds and it has so many surfaces on the molecule that it does a good absorption. And then, and it's available in a powder from external form, big bottle, $7 so I think that is something that that people may keep in their house, if they are around too often, round up or any other externally sprayed chemicals.

Speaker 5  16:27
Yeah, great idea. And it's magnet. Magnet

Bill Clearfield  16:35
area,

Speaker 5  16:35
Clay,

Speaker 2  16:37
bentonite. Plate,

Speaker 5  16:38
bentonite, Clay bentonite.

Speaker 3  16:40
You

Speaker 2  16:40
all right, you ready?

Bill Clearfield  16:46
I don't know to you,

Speaker 2  16:48
okay, all right. So let's start,

Bill Clearfield  16:51
yeah, we're ready.

Speaker 2  16:53
Okay, so I'm gonna, well, basically, our league of the week is maybe something, just a little glimpse of what the feature has four GLP ones. So over the last few years, obesity medicine has completely changed because of drugs like semi glutide enters appetite, but now we're seeing the next wave. So we're not talking about dual agonists here. We're not talking about triple agonists. I'm going to be talking about quadruple agonists. I don't know if you've heard of this, but this one is steering the pot of obesity medicine, and one of the most talked about investigational. So the word investigational, I will underline that agents is bioglutide or na 931, na 931, is a unique agent because it targets four pathways simultaneously, GLP, one, gip, one, glucagon, and the new one is IGF one. The reason for that is, of course, our GLP ones, bigger side effect is muscle loss. This one is the one that will preserve lean mass. So the last component is, what makes this especially relevant to anti aging medicine, one of the biggest emerging concerns with aggressive GLP one therapy as sarcopenia. So 2025 review in ACTA diabetes, logica, this is actually a Hispanic journal, highlighted that muscle loss during GLP one mediated weight reduction may worsen frailty, insulin resistance and long term metabolic resilience. The idea behind na 931 is not just losing more weight, but lose fat while preserving function. Clinical Data, currently, it's in phase three as of 2026 early phase one data presented at endo and ADA. 2025 showed up to 6.4 weight loss in 28 days, largely mild gi adverse effects. So it's an oral pill, and you have to take note this has mild gi adverse effects, and notably, no major muscle loss signal. That's phase one. Phase Two data showed up that it has 13.8 weight loss, a percent weight loss at 13 weeks, with as many as almost 70% of subjects achieving more than 12% weight loss in some analysis, and perhaps most interestingly, gi tolerability appeared milder than expected for this class. So I just want to emphasize that you still cannot beat the injectables. So there's appetite kind of is the standard for reaching 26% of weight loss. We're talking about orals here. So that's why it's really not that comparable and and this is early data, so most of the studies were made by the company who's researching it. It's probably going to sell it to Eli Lilly. And this is early data, most, mostly conference abstract is even sponsor reported findings, and long term safety remains unknown, especially regarding IGF one signaling. So the controversy of what can it cause cancer? But in these phases, it has not caused any cancers. So But conceptually, this may represent a major shift from simple appetite suppression towards true body composition medicine, because the future of obesity medicine probably isn't how skinny can we make patients. It's really more of how metabolically functional can we keep them while they lose fat. So that is your leak of the week, and this is available again on research only labels.

Bill Clearfield  20:17
So when's it going to show up in one of some of our favorite peptide companies.

Speaker 2  20:22
It's actually out there. If you look at

Bill Clearfield  20:25
security out there,

Speaker 2  20:26
it's a black market product right now. Again, research only, but it's quadruple. That's kind of like the hot take on this medicine, and it's oral. So that's why the ones who are not using the ones who are afraid of needles probably will go for this one. But again, I always it's actually a patient who spoke to me also about this, because he's trying to, like, get into it. I told him about the IGF one concern. But right now, again, phase one, phase two, doesn't show any cancers, and they studied for it, nothing showed up in that specific aspect of the drug.

Bill Clearfield  21:04
Okay,

Speaker 2  21:06
so the name is bio blue tide. If you want to look at type it up, you'll see it's being sold bioglutide na, 931,

Speaker 8  21:15
anything about the surva My tide or something like that?

Speaker 2  21:21
Is it or for glyphron, or is that the new, the one that you're talking about, that's a new oral GLP one also,

Speaker 9  21:30
yes, injectable, not, not,

Speaker 2  21:32
oh, it's

Speaker 3  21:33
injectable one,

Speaker 8  21:34
yeah, and that they are coming out with the new molecule, and I know the company that was making the molecule. They are for sarcopenia.

Speaker 2  21:45
Oh, for sarcopenia,

Speaker 8  21:46
yeah. So, so it will

Bill Clearfield  21:50
be, so what if we just add a little IGF one to your retratitude or your zipper type?

Speaker 2  21:56
That's a good hey, try it out and see,

Speaker 8  22:01
can I ask a question? Oh, Dr Patel, which one did you say? It's good that you use? I'm sorry. What? Which one you said? Which one do you use for weight loss? For Weight Loss, I'm using a combo. I'm not using one molecule by itself. I'm using the some patients, the terpecetite doesn't work as well for weight loss because it just does not inhibit that appetite as much as at a lower concentration. I'm not talking about higher concentration. So what I designed is the combo of GLP one, two and this servo I'm talking about, but I don't remember the full name, and all three, I do it, and then I put a little bit of give them be complex and be 12, and they are not losing muscle, they are losing weight, and they are doing well. So sometimes you just have to do that. And we just, we just do the combo.

Bill Clearfield  23:24
What was, what was the combo again? Dr, Patel,

Speaker 8  23:27
I use SMG, tepesatide, and that number three is start with s, u, r, v, O, something. I don't have the full name, but that is number three, and I mix them three together, depending upon their their complaint with one one molecule like turbo. Oh, no, I don't like it because I don't feel like my appetite is well controlled, and I don't want to give them a very high dose because of the other side effect. So when I mix these three then, then they're fine. They're losing weight and and if they are not losing then I just changed the combination again. So

Speaker 4  24:16
I have a doctor, she's using fantaramine with topiramat. I and it really suppresses the appetite very well, because some people eat a lot because of stress or something, or just eat because or also, Dr Gundry, he have, he has MCT wellness, which causes caloric bypass, and it's very good, also

Speaker 10  24:44
for

Speaker 8  24:44
weight loss. What

Speaker 4  24:46
is it? MCT wellness. MCT wellness. He has also videos. You can watch it. He said that during the war, people that using that work in a factory, and they were exposed to some kind of phenols, they did not gain weight at all. They actually were very skinny. And it's the same principle, and he says, MCT wellness, it's with Pheno polyphenols, and it causes caloric bypass. And it's also this kind of and that it's, it's like, bring the body into ketosis, and it's very good, because it's from fruits. I used to take it, and it's good. I mean, maybe we can add the Berberine, or I take thyroid bio regulators from integrative peptides.

Speaker 8  25:39
Think what we have to do on a long term, we have to follow our patients and see that what kind of tumors they develop, because that's that is my biggest concern when you're when you are using it in a group over 50 and 60 years old, as their rate of cancer is increasing, because I have seen them developing small tumors in a different parts of their body. They're, I mean, they're not my patient. They are not my patient. They came to me because they did they have a cancer for Second Opinion.

Bill Clearfield  26:15
It's like a little restless there, huh? Stephen, yeah. Okay, so why don't we let, why don't we get going and then we can have a, you know, we'll pick up the discussion afterwards. Okay, it's getting, getting a little little late here already. So, so sorry to sorry, sorry to cut everybody off. But not sorry. So, so tonight, everybody, Stefan Hartman is no stranger to us. You know, he's one of our superstars, actually. And I kind of look at him with a little bit of either awe or jealousy that I wish when I was his age that we had, you know, what you're doing, what we're doing was around when I was when I was, you know, 17, like, like he is and, and he's got, you know, all sorts of he's got, you know, he's, he's brought us iodine, he's brought us, you know, all sorts of new ideas. And he's even wearing a nice power blue jacket tonight, which is I just

Speaker 11  27:22
picked us up in Italy when I was there for three

Bill Clearfield  27:25
weeks. Okay, and then I see mom's with us too. So by

Speaker 11  27:30
special request for me,

Bill Clearfield  27:31
by special request we had, we brought mom back. I don't know if you know mom, that when we did the the the talk, the last time that you were on, you mentioned, I won't say it because I'll get banned. You mentioned a certain diet that you tried. You didn't even endorse it. You didn't say it was any good or any bad. All you did was mention the name and YouTube ban that banned the episode because of that for misinformation. So I ended up cutting it out. I had to, I had to delete it. So

Speaker 7  28:06
the one I've been on since January,

Speaker 11  28:08
no, I know the other one that you tried a long time ago.

Speaker 5  28:10
Oh,

Speaker 11  28:11
that one should not be named.

Bill Clearfield  28:13
We won't, we won't name it, right? So, so Stefan, I'm gonna let you introduce yourself. This has been mostly anticipated, and it's kind of got delayed a lot. I wonder if Kylie is the one, because she was the one who was most she here. She's not here. I'm going to send her. You go ahead. Okay, Stephen, you go ahead. I'm going to see if I can find her. Okay? Because she's the she was one

Speaker 11  28:38
of

Bill Clearfield  28:39
the the yes,

Speaker 11  28:40
okay, I'm Stephon Hartman. I'm a PA, and I'm the CEO of iron direct primary care, which I started back in 2021 and today I'm going to teach you everything that they didn't teach you in training. They wanted you to be cogs on the wheel, to work for the system, to grind away until you retire or die at 65 ideally die so they don't need to give you a pension. So I'm going to teach you guys everything that I had to learn along the way, the hard way through trial and error and study, but basically it's going to teach you how to free yourself from the system, to create a membership based practice, and teach you a couple really nice tax incentives as well. You have to understand that the US government is incentivizes the individual to start businesses, to employ individuals. So there's a lot of reasons you would probably want to do this. So without further ado, I'm going to start my lecture this lecture, if you miss it, and if you want to see the guide later, you're going to be able to see it. It's available on my course that I have created. It's the kind of the intro to my course. It's an HRT course I've created with Matthew Bach, who's another pa here in the chat watching us tonight. But here's my team here down in Florida. This is Jason and Ashley tuners, practitioners. And it wasn't always started out this way. I started out very humbly. I had nothing to my name. I had 100,000 in loans from my training, and I had less than 10 to $20,000 in my bank account. I had no patients. I heard about this DPC thing, and I said, I got to give it a go, because I tried all these jobs in modern medicine, and nothing really sat well with me. And so I started out with no patients. I walked around my neighborhood, I knocked on doors, and I live in a really low income neighborhood. I didn't get any sign ups that way. So if you're starting a practice, you're like, Well, how do I go from I went zero, and now we're three providers, 1200 patients, doing well. We have a beautiful beachside practice. We have all these regenerative technologies. How did I do it? And I'm going to tell you how I did it. And I did it with zero paid marketing. I didn't spend a single dollar on Facebook ads, Instagram ads, because they're entirely useless. In my opinion. Maybe we're not doing them right, but I'm gonna teach you how to do it organically. So this, this is the financial education you never got in school. And here's some pictures of some of us here. There's my wife down there, Logan, there's a DR Goodman. He's our collaborating physician. This is a financial education you never got in school. So what you want to do is you want to start an LLC in Florida. You go to sunshine.org, you register yourself as an LLC in the new year, you can elect as an S corporation, and you want to do this as soon as possible, and you elect as S corporation, and you bring on shareholders. So what does that mean? You can bring on family members, like Mom. Mom's a shareholder. Most my family members are shareholders, and that means every quarter you write a financial report, how much profit did the company have, and you can pay your shareholders and yourself dividends, basically shares profit. Now, the benefit of doing this is that when you pay yourself a share as a shareholder, you avoid several things. You avoid Medicare, Social Security and unemployment, taxes, and that's, that's what the government incentivizes. It wants you to be a corporation. It wants you to do this. It wants you to grow. So that's the benefit of shareholders, but you still need to pay yourself a an hourly wage, which I'm going to get to in a little bit. So basically, you have the LLC, right, and that how are you going to get how you going to start getting patients? Well, once you get patients, we're gonna get to them. But how do you take payments from? That's the most important part. So you have a payment processor. When I get to the different types out there, but basically it's there's a payment processor, and this deposits to your business checking account. You don't want to put it into your personal account. I made that mistake. Ended up with $100,000 IOU to the IRS, and I had that in 2022 the IRS thought I owed them $100,000 and it's because I made the mistake of linking my personal social security card to stripe. And so that was a huge mistake, and it took me a long time to get that straightened out, because I I made zero profit in 2022 because I just started, I adjust really expenses. So don't make that mistake. Make sure you get an e i n, that's what you get when you have an LLC and you link that to your business checking account. So in your first year, you keep lifestyle cost to a minimum, you reinvest in the business. You keep growing it, you probably can't afford a location just yet on the beach side, like I can now, maybe you share an office space with a chiropractor or a gym. I started out doing house calls and telemedicine. So I would actually go to patients' houses and do a kitchen inventory, which Dr halasa loves. He loves that. I went and did that where I looked at patients fridges and I saw what they were eating. But it was not only very useful to understand what a patient was eating, but it was very affordable, because I didn't need an office space. I kept overhead low, so I didn't go bankrupt within the first two years of trying this out and I follow these DPC pages on Facebook and these doctors. They're like, I'm just starting out. Should I buy an EKG machine, or should I buy the M seller? Like, no, don't buy any machines. You have yourself a stethoscope and your feet. You can't try to keep overhead to the minimum. Okay, so money goes in the business checking account. You reinvest in the business. You You have write offs, right? So once you start having income, you can have write offs. So these are educational expenses, like going to Clearfield conferences. There's other concepts. Those are all travel expenses. They don't teach you about that in school. When you have the business, you have business credit cards. So you have business credit cards, and that's where you buy things, you buy medicines, you buy travel, you buy CME, you can buy some advertising, if you like, subscriptions and more. It goes on the business checking cards and doesn't draw from your personal account. It draws from your business checking account, because these are tax write offs. You make sure you you track all of this. You can track all this in something called Zero. There's many out there. I use zero for example, and it tracks all your expenses, and you can label them and and these are all tax tax write offs, really now, how do you pay yourself? You still need to pay yourself just like you were a slave wage back in the hospital or the urgent care. So you pay yourself a slave wage at the beginning, I pay myself a slave wage. I didn't pay myself. What if? What a PA should make? I was a very mean boss to myself. I didn't pay myself very much because we were kind of broke when I first started out. As with gusto. Is my payment processor. There's many out there. I use gusto, and it pays me and all my employees every month. And the gusto, it puts that employee paycheck in my personal checking account, completely separate from the business checking account, right? That personal checking account is tied to my Social Security. It's not tied to my E n, i e i n, at the business, right? Pretty cool. Let's move on. Now. Another thing I've been I guess, pioneering here is making it very fair. So the problem we all have in medicine is corporate greed, where you keep your employees down. You fire them if they're not producing enough, you pay them a slave wage, and you you hire locums agents rather than keeping employees you have high turnover. You don't want that. In a DPC, the patients come to you for that long term relationship they build with a primary care provider. So I have probably industry leading pay share with the providers who come on board, and I allowed them to keep 65% of received payments after the transaction fees. That's industry leading. And I don't know anybody else is doing this, but it provides. It enables to the patients to to have trust that their provider will stay with them. Because this huge problem in our healthcare industry, primary cares at the VA super high turnover. Most primary cares are either gobbled up by mega corporations because they can't make it in private practice, and then they're stuck in at at the mercy of administrators who just see them as a number. You don't want to then become that when you're a CEO is seeing your providers, whether they're an NP, a, PA, A, D, o n, d, you don't never see them as a number. So what does payroll look like? Okay, you pay yourself a fair wage once you start making a little bit of profit at the first it wasn't always like this, but I'm paying myself a fair wage of what a PA should be making in the state of Florida. And then you should also have a simple IRA so that that's deductions, and I have an employer contribution. So even though I'm my own employer, I still employee match myself. It's kind of interesting to be on the back end of this. And one thing you don't notice as a slave wage in the system is how much a company pays the government. So every time I pay an employee for the great benefit of paying my employee, I also have to pay the IRS. So you can see, every time you pay an employee, you actually pay a percentage of their salary to the IRS, and that's in addition to what the employee pays to the IRS. It's a lot of taxes that go in when you start paying employees. It's kind of nuts once you're on the back end of seeing things and you're like, oh geez, no wonder people prefer to hire contractors and localizations, because you avoid what do you avoid, you avoid SIMPLE IRAs, retirement funds. You avoid paying Medicare, Social Security, unemployment taxes. You avoid workers comp, because it's all handled by the locums agency. Sure, the locums agency charges a premium. But then you also avoid a lot of these things. So we can understand from the business side of things why the healthcare system the way is the way it is why employees are treated so poorly. Okay, here's the nuts and bolts of creating a recurring revenue practice with low overhead. So if you go out and you want to start a DPC, you'll soon find out that hint, health is leader in this. They've probably were the first. They've created a very easy way to take payments from patients, track the revenue. It's very simple. They also now have an EHR. I don't know how good it is. I've heard some challenging things with it. I've used Elation EHR, and if you buy it for the whole year for three providers, it's $13,500 so that's kind of gives you an idea of what it costs per provider. Hint is pretty cheap when you first start out, it's about 60 cents per patient. As you grow and you keep building patients, once you're at like 1000 plus patients like us, it's actually a decent chunk every month. It's like $800 I think $900 they charged me last month just for the service fee, and that's in addition to processing fees. Now, thankfully, hint has put some of the processing fees on patients, because we were getting, I saw one year we had like, $20,000 in processing fees alone. And I was like, this is killing us. Patients were using their American Express cards and so forth. Now, hint, put some of that onto the patients, but we still get some that are still put on to us. So I think last month we had about 800 or $900 in processing fees. So it's a lot better than it was, but it's still there this you can, you have to think about all this with the overhead, and then you have to think about the AI scribes, if you're not using AI scribes. Now I don't know what to tell you. Everybody needs an AI scribe that's going to save years off your life in documentation. So Elation, unfortunately wants to nickel and dime me and charge $100 per provider per month for their AI scribe. Right now, we're using free to AI. You can share that with logins. It's a bit clunky with copy and paste, so not super happy with that either. The latest and I met them at a forum West Palm Beach in Las Vegas last year is Xhalo 360 and they're probably the coolest one I've seen so far, they're incorporating membership along with AI integrated EHR, along with telemedicine and pretty affordable. Seems like three providers would be like 10k per year, and they can put a lot of the processing fees towards the patients themselves. So they seem to be the most affordable and the most cutting edge as far as AI integration, because you'll see a lot with these new AIS in the EHRs is they're not very smart. You have a PDF document, the AI doesn't see it. You get a lab like a patients are going to function health. They're getting a lab, right. And it's a PDF, and they upload it to the chart, the AI misses it completely. They doesn't see it doesn't register on their clock. Is really like, you're missing a bunch of data still. So these AIs are still really, really clunky and new, and then you can't forget malpractice insurance. I recommend getting Mcarthur, another one that I met at a frame. They're pretty affordable for pas and NPS gets a little expensive when you add on MDs, who actually want to lay hands on patients. But it's not bad. I think it's about 7000 per year. Now, secretaries, I see a lot of docs in the DPC pages saying they have a virtual assistant from the Philippines. Now, nothing against our Philippines friends here, but patients, especially with DPC, local DPCs, they want a local touch. They want somebody who knows their area, who knows them, who knows what they're going through. Because mom here, she gets calls, as you can talk about this a little bit, she'll get calls from patients who just got out of another doctor's office were really disappointed, and they're in the parking lot.

Speaker 7  43:01
That goes back to what you said about the advertising right when you when you started DPC, and our my limited experience, but it's word of mouth. I mean, I suppose you could put a billboard up, or you could advertise on TV. But women, women, I know for sure, they like to talk about doctors and providers. They share that very often. They share Doctor experiences as much as they share the testing that goes on at the school and the teachers and how the kids are doing. So I would say, Gosh, a huge percent of the calls I get is because somebody says, Well, I was talking to somebody else in town and and then I listen, listen to them and discuss what we do. If I do get a call from somebody who just moved to town and saw our sign on the street, you know, then they don't know. They don't know much about us then, and I'll talk a bit about and then I'll send them. I'm sure Stefan will talk about that later. I'll send them to our YouTube channel. I'll say, Well, if you want to know what it would be like to belong to a DPC, which is something a lot of people really haven't heard of, could our YouTube channel and learn more about it? And I've had people call me back a month later saying, once again, usually, yeah, they are frustrated with the health care they're getting. I've more than once had calls from people saying they were calling like almost in tears in the parking lot of their current endocrinologist or our primary care because they weren't being felt they weren't being listened to, or felt that some ideas they had heard about wouldn't be tried or wouldn't be discussed, and they'd heard about us through word of mouth, and so just, it's kind of, it's kind of rare. I get people who are belligerent with me calling when I when I discuss what we do, most are are very much wanting to try something new,

Speaker 11  45:16
right? And so we don't really have a secretary or a front desk. Mom answers the Google number, but she doesn't schedule patients. She is all supposed to be automated. The patients are supposed to use the Self Scheduling, which Elation does have, and that's supposed to be very sure. So we don't have someone taking their payment info. We don't have someone spending time finding a time on their schedule. Oh, I have soccer practice that day? No, it's all automated, so that lowers again your overhead. You're not paying a secretary to sit there from nine to five every day and take calls.

Speaker 7  45:48
Like, a month ago, I actually went to an elderly couple's house to help them get into the software.

Speaker 11  45:55
That's rare.

Speaker 7  45:55
And that's really rare because I said, Look, once you're in the software, you can schedule yourself at midnight from an in person to a zoom call. You don't have to try to get a hold of me. I like talking to people about health when they call. I want to talk about hormones, and I want to talk about my health journey from my 50s. That's also it's very pleasant because it's my hobby. I like talking about it, I'd say about once or twice a day I get a call from somebody with a little glitch on the software. They got themselves locked out, they switched their email and didn't input it so they couldn't get in. But then you get them, you get them off in the automated system again, right? Because there's no weight, so that's like 600 calls a day.

Speaker 11  46:42
The point is, high automation, low overhead, low Ma, Secretary involvement. Because if you've ever worked in a primary care office or an urgent care or any hospital system, the worst interactions patients have is usually with non clinical staff, staff who don't know medicine, who don't understand the patient, who maybe don't care so much about their job because not getting paid very much, and so they have poor interaction. So you'll see the Google reviews on that, and because a lot of that Secretary is taking co pays, is it's, you know, those registration staff. So if you eliminate a lot of that interaction, and the patients have direct interaction with their primary care provider, and I know a lot of doctors in the chat might feel a little bit maybe they're above talking directly to the patient, but the point of direct primary care is that one to one interaction to eliminate all the administration and bureaucratic burden, to eliminate all the loss in translation that happens in our Healthcare System. The direct primary care model. It saves lives because of that right the direct communication. So don't be afraid to be to talk directly to the patient, to give them your Google Voice number, to allow them to message you directly in the portal, and not route them through a secretary or so forth. It's not as bad as you might think. This

Speaker 7  48:01
also by being able to do that, we often see people for urgent care issues, and when they're able to get the stitches done through us. I mean, they not only save four to six hours at an emergency room, but that covers just so many months, if not years, of their DPC membership. So by being able to contact a provider, I mean, people don't have emergencies all the time. It does happen, though, and then, well, we could see them. It's, it's, it makes everybody benefit financially too, which is just lovely,

Speaker 11  48:40
and that goes back to the communication side of things. So I recommend the Google suite of apps, because it's free to use. Google Voice is free. It kind of filters out the calls so you know who's calling you. I save the patient's phone numbers in the in my phone. I know who's calling me. I can type on my computer to people who use an Android phone, because I was actually getting a gamer's thumb from texting all these people so much, so I stopped doing that. Started typing instead. And when patients come in through our front door, we don't have a secretary to check them, and they don't need that. We know who's there. We go out and we take them back ourselves. We don't have an MA to take their vital signs. We bring them directly back to our room. We see the patient. We take their own vital signs, but oftentimes we have the patients be taking their vital signs at home. Like, what is the point of measuring a blood pressure in the office? When you have a patient who's a little bit anxious about their visit, you have to measure it at home. We have all this wearable device technology at home is really not a huge point of of doing this in the office, you know, unless they're obviously, we have a vital signs cart. We can take it in the office, but the patients should be empowered to be monitoring their health at home, right? Let's talk about the cost of labs, because we get that question a lot, because we are a cash based practice, yes, we can send an order to the lab and have the patient try to build their own insurance. It doesn't always work that well. Look at the prices here. Right on a budget lab order for 100 bucks, you can get a really in depth lab panel way more than your standard panel that insurance might cover. For 100 bucks, you can go as in detailed as you want, depending on budget. Vibrant is another great one. You can use rupahealth and fullscript. They're integrated with quest. Quest is a little bit Pricer than Labcorp, but sometimes it's easier based off where your location is. And Rupa is great, because you have all access to all these functional labs as well. So that's kind of your go to that plus fullscript helps with ordering labs. This is a patient who attempted to use their insurance, and they got a bill in the mail for $2,900 with Labcorp. Wow, that's a shock here, sticker price. Shock,

Speaker 7  50:49
yeah, when people call, that's about the third thing they ask. They go, okay, so I can see the provider as much as I want. I can text 'em. I go, Oh, I do. I have, I have lots of things I like to run past stuff on. And then they ask about a data and I go, Yeah, data is great. I'm reticent to go have my blood work done, but I always find something good to try to optimize. And then I tell them, NPS, don't run it through your insurance. You could ask what it might cost, but you make that a telephone call. Maybe don't even use your real name with your real name with your insurance company and and to go to the lab and pay through us with the with the rates that we have agreed with the Labcorp will charge. Because, yeah, that guy got a $2,900

Speaker 11  51:33
$100

Speaker 7  51:34
he was all stubborn and ran it through his insurance. And we're really clear about that not to do it.

Speaker 11  51:39
Don't do that. And

Speaker 7  51:40
people ask me when they call, they go, but why? Why would the insurance be so much more expensive? I go, why the insurance system? Well, the

Speaker 11  51:48
first thing the insurance doesn't think that these tests are necessary. They don't think LP, PLA two is necessary, apo B is necessary. They don't think a free t3 is necessary. So forget about trying to convince your insurance on IGF. One is necessary. It's not right, but we like to do it because we want a comprehensive lab. We're doing functional medicine and anti aging medicine here. And does the

Speaker 7  52:09
insurance companies want to? Want you to avoid that? They wouldn't want everybody to go companies just done. And then I invest them money.

Speaker 11  52:15
And we can, we can get this right down to we got this patient, we saved in $2,900 we got down to 280 because we pleaded with our Labcorp rep. We like, Listen, this patient learned this lesson. Can we? Can we flip it back? And we managed to do this and save the patient a bunch of money. This is your network of nutraceuticals companies. Fullscript is pretty easy now the DPC, they're really conventional docs. They're against selling supplements. But I say, Listen, your patients are going to buy supplements anyway. You may as well make sure it's a quality, third party tested supplement. Don't have 'em buy it on Amazon. It's full of fakes, right? And, you know, give, give them a large discount, so it's even cheaper off of Amazon. So you're saving the patient's money. It's true, right? You don't need to make a profit off of it. You can, you can sell it. Yeah,

Speaker 7  53:03
Amazon does a does quite a little trick, where they'll at the selling page, they'll say, Oh, this is pures now magnesium. And then when you click to buy, it'll say, fulfilled by Joe Smith.

Speaker 3  53:17
And

Speaker 7  53:17
you're like, wait a minute. Who am I buying from and I saw something on a YouTube the other day that even if pure sends in the vitamins, they get same thrown into the same bin as Joe Smith's. It all gets mixed up and yeah,

Speaker 11  53:35
don't buy from Amazon. Buy from the provide provider account. Another good one we like is integrativepeptides. These are orally available peptides, and they're clinically effective. We found these very effective clinically trace minerals. We like them. And then Biocidin botanicals and Quicksilver Scientific basically Chinese medicine in a bottle, really like those actually work. And then here's further network. These are your compounding pharmacies. Now there's two different ways to prescribe medicines. One is through your EHR. It goes through the system and everybody can see what you're prescribing. If you want something a little bit more discreet, you can use LifeFile pharmacies. And this goes into LifeFile, right? But it's a little bit more tedious, because you have to put all the patient's information in there, and you have to send the prescription through, and then the pharmacy bills you the clinic, and then you have to bill the patient. It's a little bit easier if you just prescribe it to CVS, but then you have to deal with CVS, and CVS might be Well, Dr Clearfield, why are you prescribing t3 three times a day to this patient when their insurance recommends levothyroxine? And then you have to get on and talk to Walgreens pharmacist and explain it to him, right? So you can sometimes avoid it.

Bill Clearfield  54:47
Actually, yesterday, CVS told one of my patients that I don't don't have they're not going to fill any my prescriptions because I don't have a license.

Speaker 7  54:55
Oh, I took your license. Oh,

Bill Clearfield  54:58
true. Yes, that was fun.

Speaker 11  55:00
They're full of it. Yeah, yeah. All right, here's some of the links to that supplies. I recommend Mckesson. Mckesson seems to be the cheapest I've seen out there. Olympiapharmacy for some IV fluids. We had to do that when where there was a shortage, and again, keeping overhead and supplies low. Don't buy that EKG machine. First out. Don't buy the ultrasound machine. First out. You don't need it. You can actually refer those out. There's a health first is our local hospital system. They'll do an EKG for $15 $15 yeah, I just write the prescription. The patients bring it over there. They'll do the EKG.

Speaker 7  55:38
You have that huge heart center, so why not come in and

Speaker 2  55:42
have you

Speaker 11  55:43
and you get a cardiologist? Rita is great. I think it's 15 or 20 bucks. Am I gonna what am I gonna add that liability and that machine and that science, they

Speaker 7  55:52
need to cabbage and step right over there and get it done

Speaker 11  55:54
right? Social media market? Okay, let's get to the marketing. This is what you guys are interested in. But how did we get from zero to 1100 patients? I would tell you it's from our referral network, word of mouth, the allied health professionals. We don't drive a hard sale like you know, you'll get Instagram ads now, since you heard this talk about Alex Hormozi, and he's selling, doing the hard sale? No, it's word of mouth. It's organic. Yes, social media is important. I found I've been doing lectures like these over the past five years on my YouTube channel, publishing a lot of information, and now I've converted a lot of those to short format, because people have short attention spans from with Opus AI. It's an AI and brings your long format to short format, and opposed it to like six social media platforms. So I'm on Instagram, Facebook, Tiktok, YouTube, shorts and x, right? So it goes to all those and people, people see my stuff. You also want a Facebook business page and you want a Google business page, right? You need to be able to people to be able to find you in real life, virtual clinics, it's tough. You need an actual location. You need a website too. I built my website myself. If you go to iron dpc.com, I mean, maybe it looks a little bit self built, but people kind of like that look. They look. They like the feel of it being real and not made by somebody. You know, in India or Pakistan, they want to see real. Here locally, don't want to have because there's so much, too much flashy, there's too much, AI people, like a little bit of a human touch. There's like little errors in there. I mean, it's not bad. It shows that it was built by a real person. I learned it all myself. I used Wix. It's not too hard. The SEO took me some time to figure out I had one of my patients look at the SEO a little bit and help me with that. It's ranking a little bit better. But

Speaker 7  57:51
I usually have to tell people who call about the the website they've heard from word of mouth from somebody yeah and dice, and they'll ask me about what people are charging and the registration fee. And I'm like, I'll just check on the check on the website, in case anybody changed it. You know?

Speaker 3  58:09
Yeah.

Speaker 7  58:09
They're like, what website? But then they find

Speaker 11  58:12
there's a website. So this is the network. Okay, what you what you got to do is make friends in your community, find out who is going to make your life easier and how you can make their life easier. What do I mean by that? Personal trainers, strength coaches, these people who are working with clients for weight loss, for building muscle, if you can help their patients or help their clients, for them, if you can make their clients more successful, they're going to look better, and they're going to have better, successful outcomes, and their net worth is going to grow. Mental Health Counselor, we all know how important hormones are for mental health, how our functional medicine approach for mental health reach out to your mental health counselors. They're going to refer you people because they can't prescribe, right? Chiro practice. Chiro practice are unnatural allies. They they can't prescribe they're dealing with chronic pain patients. If you can help patients get their hormones back, reduce their pain, build their muscle, the Chiro practice are going to be more successful in their their work. Gyms reach out to gyms. They have body builders there who are probably getting their testosterone underground. You say, hey, look, there's there's better ways to do it. Get to know your local gym owners, local compounding pharmacies. I got to know Mike beamer back in the pandemic. And Amex pharmacy sent me a bunch of patients for early treatment with Ivermectin. It was phenomenal. We had a great working relationship. Health food stores, co ops, salt caves, fitness supplement stores, IV drip bars, even if you stay out of that business, if you start getting into IV drips, they might see you as a competitor. I, for the most part, really just stayed out of really pushing IV. We do IV therapeutically for patients. We don't do it like as a money making thing here. If we a patient actually needs an iron infusion, we're giving it to them. If they're dehydrated, we're giving it to them. They want an IV Sure, we'll give to them. But we're not really pushing it right. Patriot groups, Second Amendment groups. There's a lot of mistrust in the medical system right now. So you're going to find a lot of patients there, if you can speak to them, if you can get involved in these groups and build your network there in these political groups, and be the guy they're going to send you. A lot of families, a lot of patients, hair stylists, barbers. All they do is talk all day to their clients, right? Get to know them. Maybe barber with a barter with a barber, right? Don't be, don't be above that as well. I'm a I'm a doctor. I have all this education. A hair stylist has no education. No. You're equal as it concerns referral and mutual referrals there, right? So don't be afraid to barter with people for things that you may think are less value than your because the value isn't is in word of mouth, if they're speaking positively about you, you're going to grow naturally and not struggle. Right? Makes sense, and your HRT knowledge applied to others, people's clients, will make their results better and your life easier. That's a take home point here, that's pretty much the end of my talk here. I have a lot of sources here. You know most of these, if you're in this group chat, if you want to learn more about HRT and functional medicine, because that's going to drive your success. Primary Care, yes, we're a direct primary care but we incorporate anti aging medicine into primary care. So learning from all these groups is super important so that you can be more successful and provide more value to patients. We've been successful because we provide all the value. We are just as likely as to optimize someone's cardiac risk, lower their lipids, as we are to prescribe HRT, do functional medicine workout. I'm just as likely to suture someone as I am to treat, you know, Crohn's disease or rheumatological disease, dual Lyme workup on somebody. You know, I'm not above sending someone to for an x ray, treating someone's injury, fracture, head injury, a child with a cough, a cold, a runny nose. We treat it all. We're very versatile, and we treat the whole family. That's probably the biggest reason we've been successful. And I started out taking on large families. And when you provide such a service to the community, where you're providing affordable care to the whole family, you're going to grow very rapidly. When you can you can take on that market, that word of mouth is exponential, so that's how we've grown so quickly. Is being providing affordable care to our community and being a real asset here.

Speaker 7  1:02:48
Yeah, that was cute. The other day, a mom called whose husband has a job at a defense contractor, a big name defense contractor. He's an engineer. I have eight children, and the deductible, she can't, she can't budget for that. You know, you have eight kids, there's going to be urgent care visits or they get norovirus, and you just don't take 'em, because it's just astronomical. How much 6000 times aids, it's $48,000 so they just avoid healthcare. And I was like, Well, you don't have to avoid it. Here. You pay the same fee as a small family. And she was laughing, and she's like, Okay, well, we won't overrun you. I'm like, Well, the idea is to do preventive care. So this is all work out. Great. You'll, you'll be ready for, hopefully every urgent no guarantee that we can see you for an urgent care issue. But almost always, somebody is here to to handle it, and then they can prevent illness. So it's, it's serving the underserved.

Speaker 11  1:03:56
It truly is. We are truly preventative medicine. So it completely is a different mindset. So you guys might be worried, well, if you provide comprehensive care for a flat monthly rate and you don't charge per the visit, won't you get overrun bypasses? No, once you do true preventative medicine, the patients get so much better that they don't actually need to see you, but they're still paying you every month, right? So it removes the incentive of relying on sick patients to drive cash to your business.

Speaker 7  1:04:24
And you think, okay, you've got the whole family better, and the kid's sleeping better than one with the stomach issues that was driving the mom nuts. It's better. And then a kid has an abscess and needs to be drained many times the money she's saving that you're not overrun with all those illnesses, but her fees, for the years pretty much covered versus, I don't know, the kid might have ended up in the hospital with the abscess or going each time. No, it would have been expensive.

Speaker 3  1:04:56
Yes,

Speaker 7  1:04:56
it's working out.

Speaker 11  1:04:58
So if you want to learn more, we have a functional medicine course is teaches HRT, very practically. We have men's and pre menopausal women's up and soon to be female H post menopausal HRT. It's a practical course for those working in the trenches. And if you want to hear more about me, I'm speaking at two conferences this year. If you want excuse to go to Italy and speaking in Verona on September 20 and 2026 that's the amphitheater. It's Roman amphitheater, beautiful. So that's a functional as an anti aging conference in Verona at the

Speaker 7  1:05:33
amphitheater,

Speaker 11  1:05:34
not in the amphitheater.

Speaker 7  1:05:36
It's a

Speaker 11  1:05:36
little bit outside of this. We're doing a whole team trip there. It's going to be great. It's going to be a lot of fun, right? And then also, I'm speaking at the Florida Academy of PAs on June 26 28 in Dayton Beach. I'm introducing Functional Medicine and anti aging medicine. I'm red pilling my PA colleagues, allopathic colleagues, and they're really into it. I mean, I gave a talk last year on iodine, and they were gung ho about it. I mean, they were like a standing ovation. They loved it so much. And they were like, well, we need more functional medicine. They're ready for it.

Bill Clearfield  1:06:11
Thanks. Thank you. Stephan, great as always. So a couple of questions for you. First of all, is all of your clients or all your patients' membership or do you see private pay also? It's only membership. Only

Speaker 11  1:06:25
membership. We're pretty exclusive membership. We don't do any one time visits.

Speaker 7  1:06:28
I'll get, I'll get quite often. Can she come in and and she needs an IV and, well, we're membership, but, but sometimes it'll work out. I'll say, she said, Well, I've thought about becoming a membership, and I'll call step on, like, Okay, if you want to become a member, we'll do your urgent care issue and that and and I say, you know, even if they did use us as an urgent care for that visit, it's once again, advertising is so expensive, it's word of mouth. The daughter got much better through that she actually is a member. But if it didn't work out, if they, after a while, didn't want to become a member, people talk, and it's

Bill Clearfield  1:07:16
so

Speaker 7  1:07:17
sometimes you just trade some work for it's like, free advertising,

Speaker 3  1:07:21
yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:07:21
So, so someone asked, How much is the membership? Are you? Can you share that with us? Or

Speaker 11  1:07:27
so, we're super it's on the website, so it's all you go to iron dpc.com and we're very transparent with everything you go to DPC membership. You can sign up with my NP, she's 99 a month. A couple is 149 a month, single parent, one child is 125 single parent, a couple children, 135 and a family is 180 there's a registration fee of 200 and then my, my male nurse practitioner, Jason, is pretty similar.

Speaker 7  1:07:56
And some people, they ask about the registration fee. And I'll tell I'm like, you know, functional medicine is so intensive, we don't have any long term contracts at the moment. Step on does, but he's not taking new patients right now. We have the registration fee. If you were to use this as an urgent care, maybe you'll think, oh, you know, I've, I've paid, I'm, I'm going to continue on with this and see if I can improve my health journey. So, so then they understand why we have the registration fee, and usually they, they do find a lot of benefit,

Speaker 11  1:08:28
right? It takes a lot of time.

Bill Clearfield  1:08:30
So what's it? I always, you know, I'm old, so I never quite got this concept, what's included and what's not included in the membership. I mean, it seems, it seems, My concept is they pay you whatever it is a month, and they can come and everything, and everything's included,

Speaker 11  1:08:47
correct? Pretty much,

Bill Clearfield  1:08:49
well, you're paying $180 a month for a family. Yeah, you know, you get somebody with an autoimmune disease. I mean, that's going to chew that up in one visit.

Speaker 11  1:09:02
Yeah, I mean, that's part of the registration fee. When you first see a patient, it's a 90 minute appointment for my for Ashley, I mean, she's like, she's down to 70 minutes now, is about an hour appointment. But you know, you tell patients the membership is there, because we're not going to fix your auto main disease in one day. I mean, this is going to take months, if not years, to figure out. And so you got to work with us long term. And the patients understand that.

Speaker 7  1:09:29
That's something I tell people, and they call and they'll, they'll run through all of the specialists they've been through to so many years, and they want to try something different. And I say, Well, that's the beauty of the DPC model. You sounds like you have a medical mystery? Well, you can come once a month discuss things you want to try keep track of all your different symptoms and see what makes 'em better and worse. And it's a journey we'll continue on.

Speaker 3  1:10:00
Yeah. So

Speaker 2  1:10:03
Stephan, you have all those extra workout sessions in the backyard. Is that part of the monthly

Speaker 11  1:10:11
No? That is a separate membership that's available to those who just want to do the gym membership. But it's also an add on for the DPC members. And so this, it's a 24/7 access Wellness Recovery gym,

Speaker 2  1:10:26
so they pay extra,

Speaker 3  1:10:28
yeah,

Speaker 1  1:10:29
separate.

Speaker 2  1:10:30
Okay, gotcha.

Speaker 12  1:10:33
Okay. Along those lines, was that picture of mom hanging from the bar,

Speaker 3  1:10:40
yeah,

Speaker 11  1:10:40
yeah, with the Marines.

Speaker 12  1:10:42
Okay, okay, now let's you and I tell people again, excuse me, that that's how you do grip strength. It's not some little machine that you're squeezing.

Speaker 7  1:10:53
Yeah, I wouldn't like that, though,

Speaker 12  1:10:55
that's how you test real grip strength.

Speaker 7  1:10:59
I like hanging about six minutes a day,

Speaker 12  1:11:02
that's amazing.

Speaker 3  1:11:04
You mean it not

Speaker 7  1:11:05
at the same time. I break it up by the minute, but if I can get that done overnight by the morning, on a little HgA, notice, I've done it. And

Speaker 12  1:11:17
that's it. True. True. True. Test of wellness. I

Bill Clearfield  1:11:23
honest. All right, back, back to my question. Stefan, so I have a 61 year old lady. She shows up, she comes in, she says she just wants to, you know, check things out. Her hemoglobin a 1c is 11.6 her fasting blood sugar's 301 her hormones are zero. Her thyroid antibodies are 612 How are you going to take care of this for $100 a month?

Speaker 11  1:11:54
My nurse practitioner, Jason, just had one like that. He came in. He had no idea he was an A 1c of 11, but we figured it out. We also ran a C peptide. Figured out this patient wasn't producing any insulin, and so my NP put him on insulin because he was he became an insulin because of an autoimmune condition. He we fixed it. We got him on insulin. He's doing a lot

Bill Clearfield  1:12:16
better. Well, my question is, I mean, quite frankly, at this point in my life, I only get train wrecks who come in here, nobody, nobody's nobody's coming in here because their testosterone is low. And they, you know, when they're 50 years old, and they want it boost, at least not into my office

Speaker 3  1:12:32
now

Bill Clearfield  1:12:33
or and I, they get sent to me. You know, if you're paying for the lab work, you're paying for the supplements, you're paying for the prescriptions you're you're paying for all of it.

Speaker 7  1:12:45
The patients are they for that labs? They pay for their prescriptions. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:12:50
well, though, again, so, so what's, what's, what's the lab works included?

Speaker 11  1:12:55
No, they pay for that.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:57
Okay, all right. Well,

Speaker 7  1:12:58
the rates are super the rates are we

Speaker 11  1:12:59
pay, we charge, so we don't up charge them on labs either. We it's wholesale plus processing fee, about 30 bucks for labs.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:06
Okay, we have a lab that we deal with that that's tied to quest, which it's, it's Ulta lab. It's kind of the same deal,

Speaker 3  1:13:14
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:13:14
but it's still like $300 for, you know, for our full panel,

Speaker 11  1:13:19
right? Your functional, yes, functional, functional labs can add up.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:22
Yeah. So, I mean, if you're, if somebody shows up and you do labs, and you get do them, get them, you supplements, and that's included. The supplements are included.

Speaker 11  1:13:37
No, they'll buy that off of Fullscript. And, you know, Fullscript bypasses a little margin about it.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:43
Okay, all right, so that's what I'm asking. What's included? What's not included?

Speaker 7  1:13:47
Their access to the their Provider's

Speaker 3  1:13:49
their

Speaker 11  1:13:49
access to us is included. That's it. So they can schedule whenever they need. They can text us if something comes up,

Speaker 7  1:13:56
if they're if they're really have a lot of issues, one month, they could, they could see him more if they don't see him the next month at all.

Speaker 11  1:14:03
I mean, yeah, if they we had this one guy, he walked in off the street, my God, he was had this big, swelling legs. He had this wound that wasn't healing, and I was like, managing it for a couple days. But I did refer him to a hyperbaric chamber center, and so he was doing the wound center there, like some of these patients, yeah, I'm going to refer them out. If they're really bad, they're going to go to a wound specialist for the diabetic wound. Of course, I'm going to refer them if they're really bad, they get a little bit of help, sure.

Speaker 2  1:14:32
So if you do a DNC, I mean, drainage of the abscess, yeah, you need to pay extra for that. That's not a consult anymore, isn't

Speaker 3  1:14:40
it?

Speaker 11  1:14:40
I don't really charge them for that. Because, like, you know, if you go to urgent cares, like, $400 for an IND is what we charge them back in the urgent cares. But like, the supplies are so cheap, like a scalpel is like $2 I mean, some gauze, some ribbon strip, gauze is, like, negligible. It's just your time. It's all included with the membership

Speaker 7  1:15:00
is that family is paying every month for the membership, so the Provider's know that they have the income coming in. And then, okay, that was a rare thing, and that child probably doesn't have an abscess all the time. So then when the family needed that, and it would have been quite expensive, Stefan came in and did it. We were having coffee in the morning, in the morning and and it came in. So it's that I was saying earlier. It all works out their their Provider's get paid every month, and then the family it they almost break even, if you think about what they might have paid over and over at an urgent care to have that, to have that

Speaker 3  1:15:40
done

Bill Clearfield  1:15:41
direct.

Speaker 10  1:15:42
What

Speaker 2  1:15:42
about the so you have prices there on your website. Is in it, for example, a nurse practitioner, Pa has a supervising physician. So do you put that as part of the calculation of your rates, what you pay your supervisor?

Speaker 11  1:15:57
So I got very lucky, and I had a supervising physician who really believed in what I was trying to create here. So he actually didn't charge me to start this thing, which enabled me to survive. A lot of supervised physicians, they'll charge like 2000 $3,000 a month. It's going to bankrupt you before you even start. All he did is wanted me to be successful, and he's a shareholder of my corporation, and now that we are in year, five of this well, shareholder dividends are due every quarter, and if we're profitable, he's making shares.

Speaker 2  1:16:28
Oh, so you definitely well meaning your supervisor is the same for the other practitioners in house with you.

Speaker 11  1:16:34
Oh, yes, yes.

Speaker 2  1:16:35
Oh, it's just one, okay. What about, for example, you're saying you're doing all the services that, especially the medications, right? What about pain medicine? How do you handle that for patients who are needing, like, basically, controlled substance? I know you're giving testosterone out, but

Speaker 11  1:16:56
we don't do any, like, opiates. That's what you're asking,

Speaker 2  1:17:00
right? So is that that's from the, like, a contract from the get go that you will make them sign?

Speaker 11  1:17:05
Oh yeah, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:17:05
you will divulge that

Speaker 11  1:17:07
we don't do, yeah, it's in the contract. We don't do benzos. We don't do opiates. I know some DPCs who specifically do, like psychiatry, and so they're dealing with benzos and stuff, but not us.

Speaker 3  1:17:17
We'll

Speaker 11  1:17:18
refer them out if they need that. Because, especially with regulation in the state of Florida, a PA can only prescribe like, seven or 14 days of benzos, so we'd have to constantly be hitting the refill button. Like, why not doing that?

Speaker 2  1:17:30
Right? Right, right? Sooner or later, some somebody will get an accident in one of your subscription patients, and they probably gonna need like, a few days of it so that you can sneak one or,

Speaker 11  1:17:42
yeah, we can do like, seven days, like, if it's like a fracture, yeah, I've done that before. You know something obvious,

Speaker 2  1:17:47
right, right, okay,

Speaker 11  1:17:49
even a fracture, your Tuan lipoprotein is usually

Speaker 2  1:17:55
good enough,

Bill Clearfield  1:17:58
yeah, so you're, I know he already asked you. So, so your human performance lab, that, or your or that's, that's separate.

Speaker 11  1:18:06
It is separate. It's,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:08
How about do you get? Your members get a discount if they're there

Speaker 11  1:18:12
no no discount. It's 100 month flat rate. It's cheap enough.

Bill Clearfield  1:18:17
Somebody's got to pay for that jacket, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:18:21
All these trips to Italy,

Speaker 11  1:18:24
well, yeah, a lot of those are, again, you know, travel expenses, because I'm giving a talk at a conference at CME. So a lot of these are, are as a team building. It's shareholder event. So as a part of paying shareholders, you can have shareholder meetings. So it's not only a shareholder meeting, but it's also a travel expense. These are, these are tax deductible expenses, part of the company routine,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:48
okay, now, direct primary care. That's a trademark name. Now,

Bill Clearfield  1:18:54
DPC.

Speaker 11  1:18:55
DPC is a movement. I

Bill Clearfield  1:18:58
mean, is it a company, or is it

Speaker 11  1:19:00
direct primary care? Anybody can start a direct primary that's what I just taught you guys, how to do iron, direct primary care. Yeah, that's, that's a registered business.

Bill Clearfield  1:19:09
Is there? Like, there's some outfit called MV, MD, VIP, sort of concierge.

Speaker 11  1:19:18
The concierge is different. I get confused with that all the time. Concierge is where you still take insurance. Yeah, it's where you still take insurance, but the patients pay a premium membership, so you get access to the doctor's phone number. Now that's called double dipping, and you can get trouble with Medicare if you do that. So you're not supposed to bill Medicare and take cash patients. You can get in a lot of trouble for that, so don't do that,

Speaker 2  1:19:42
so you opted out for Medicare,

Speaker 3  1:19:44
yeah,

Speaker 2  1:19:46
okay, and then that's a better option, because there are practices that are balancing this. I know people that are doing insurance based with cash pay. You just have to, and then you probably need to get a good biller for that too. To help you out with that, I

Speaker 3  1:20:01
wouldn't

Speaker 11  1:20:02
mess with Medicare. Medicare will come down so hard on you if they find out they don't care about you know, some things they're getting away with in, like some of these communities in Minnesota. But I mean, if I tried that, they come down so hard on me. You forget about it. If you did that,

Speaker 7  1:20:15
forget about it. No, if you're not in Minnesota, don't

Speaker 3  1:20:19
do

Speaker 13  1:20:20
it. I had a question. I don't know if you can

Speaker 3  1:20:22
hear me. Yeah.

Speaker 13  1:20:23
Okay, yeah. So, um, you mentioned earlier about like, referring out. Is that more just like, kind of like a word of mouth referral, so it's like you opted out of Medicare,

Speaker 11  1:20:33
yeah. I mean, you can still make referrals to, I make referrals all the time for imaging, to cardiologists, to orthopedic surgeons, so patients can still get their insurance coverage for those referrals. Of course,

Speaker 2  1:20:48
yeah, I think that's true, because I know when you opt out, your referrals can still be recognized by Medicare Provider's who are opted in. So I think that is, that is legitimate,

Speaker 8  1:20:59
yeah? Sure, yeah.

Speaker 11  1:21:00
It's no problem.

Speaker 1  1:21:01
Hey, Stefan, do you do you guys have the Community Care program there with the VA hospital. So have you looked into that? Or is it too much of a pain?

Speaker 11  1:21:08
So we've gotten some VA patients. Some of them do come to us. Some VA patients are a little bit challenging. I'll tell you what. No,

Speaker 1  1:21:17
no, it is. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Love the system.

Speaker 3  1:21:24
Yeah.

Speaker 7  1:21:26
One thing step on offers that is just so lovely is he has a part time phlebotomist nurse who who does the blood draws once a week or so, and she's just so pleasant, and it's so much nicer. Labcorp is a great, great organization, but you don't have to wait with her. And so I don't like getting my Tuan you're in. And

Speaker 11  1:21:50
I also treat her really well Amicus, because the patients, they pay her directly. So I really try not to profit off of these services, because when you start using employees, then their their customer service goes down. So you have to make sure your employees are very happy that they're making money, that they want to come to work. The moment you start thinking like administrator at a hospital and trying to get every cent out of people, that's when the quality of the service goes down and people are unhappy. See, I make sure everybody's happy and everybody's winning. Here,

Bill Clearfield  1:22:25
there's a question in the chat, do your patients have a minimum amount of months they need to commit with membership?

Speaker 11  1:22:30
Yes, we it's six months now, but you can't hold them to that. If they want to quit, they can quit. They can cancel their credit

Speaker 7  1:22:36
card. Is six months? I didn't know

Speaker 11  1:22:38
that. Yeah, it is six months. It's there. It's there on the website, and the sign up

Speaker 7  1:22:41
anything,

Speaker 11  1:22:43
yeah, it. Can't hold them to it. They

Speaker 13  1:22:46
want to go there.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:47
Could you? Could you charge them, you know, six months at a time, you know, like, you know,

Speaker 11  1:22:52
good, but we're in a broke community, a low income community here. This is not West Palm Beach. This is not my people can't pay half a year in advance. They're oftentimes month to month,

Speaker 3  1:23:03
right? Okay,

Speaker 7  1:23:08
yeah, when it comes to the wealthy communities, I mean, what else are they investing in and their health? They should be find those wealthy communities and and get them on functional medicine.

Speaker 1  1:23:23
No comment.

Speaker 2  1:23:26
What about this border deal that you're saying? I mean, meaning you're Is that gonna mess up your books because they're not paying you, but instead they're paying you in kind How do you manage that in the books? How do you even offer that? As for them to buy in,

Speaker 11  1:23:45
it's, it's not a transaction. It's just they are they like you, your friends, you, you do something for them. They refer you people. I mean, I refer them people. It's yeah, like

Speaker 2  1:23:58
so you give them free service. They're a patient now of yours, but they're not paying because they're basically doing referrals for you. Is that what? When you say what, you

Speaker 11  1:24:07
realize, like, I have a barber. He cuts my hair. I talked to him, and he said, Hey, I got this person. Do you think they can help? I'm like, yeah, have 'em sign up, or I have I go to a gym, and a gym owner, he gives me membership there to I can use his gym and I take care of his health. And he sends me patients, and I send him clients to his gym

Speaker 2  1:24:28
also. That's for free. They're basically free patients already for you, that's your tip for that's your tip for time. No,

Speaker 11  1:24:35
not free patients. It's mutual benefit. So I sent him patients of mine that need to work out, because we have a muscle centric medicine if medicine approach here. He has a gym, his gym, maybe his his trainers are finding that his, their clients aren't getting the benefits of the training. They send us, send us the patients for HRT evaluation, so we get them on board, and so everybody's winning, and everyone's their business is doing better by the by the referral network,

Speaker 2  1:25:03
also, it's like, free service. You're just saying, Yeah, advertise for me, and then I advertise for you, right? This is what you mean. Okay, gotcha.

Speaker 7  1:25:11
When people call me and they just want a to see somebody for one thing, one guy called he said, I want this parasite removed like you say, say to me, it's right off my spine. And I said I was trying to explain our membership model. And then I do what I always do. I sent them to where my daughter had been an MA with a allopathic Doctor Who sees walk ins that day. He's not a member, and I send them to him. He likes that. You're gonna go straight to the end. But sometimes I've had people then come back to us and sign up. I've said, Look, if you have this one issue, I know of a doctor who'll see you that day. He's not functional medicine. And if you're interested in functional medicine, look at our YouTube channel, look at our social media and give us a try, call us back later, and I've had people come back later. He is a very nice guy. I send them to he is a good doctor, but they were they had heard about functional medicine. They were interested. So they did come back.

Speaker 2  1:26:16
I thought I could sign up and pay stuff on like organic exits that to get his services.

Speaker 11  1:26:21
We already have chickens.

Bill Clearfield  1:26:29
Okay? So Dr pidgeon says, 1000 patient panel, $12,000 a year. It's safe to say there's you have almost 1.2 million in revenue,

Speaker 11  1:26:42
no. So we have a lot of families that sign up so they get a family deal. So if you saw on the website, a family of eight can sign up for 180 a month. If one person signs up, it's 100 month. It's a couple signs up, they get a discount. It becomes 150 a month with the nurse practitioner. So a lot very good deals.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:00
How do you handle eight people in a family at $100 180 a month?

Speaker 11  1:27:07
Well, my nurse practitioner, Jason, he is a man of faith. He's a Catholic, and so it's been part of our motto here is to help, you know, young families to have more children, and part of that is taking on large families and making sure they get the care that they need. And so you're doing a little bit of a service to the community. And so it all evens out in the end.

Bill Clearfield  1:27:29
So the next question was, what percent goes to overhead?

Speaker 11  1:27:33
It's hard to say on a month to month basis, but a decent amount. I mean, rents, not cheap. Electricity is expensive, malpractice, Elation, software processing fees, cleaner supplies, electricity

Speaker 7  1:27:47
for the sauna, electricity

Speaker 11  1:27:49
for the sauna. Yeah. I mean, it's hard to calculate, because it's always changing. And, yeah, I don't know. I haven't really figured that one out yet, but you know, I can always look

Bill Clearfield  1:28:01
you have to trade. You have to transfer money from one one account to another to make the payroll.

Speaker 11  1:28:06
No, thankfully. Okay,

Speaker 14  1:28:08
well, so you're way ahead of, like, 90%

Speaker 11  1:28:12
Oh, you've had to do that. And she's haven't had to do that yet. But for the first couple years, I didn't really

Speaker 14  1:28:18
do it. I've been doing it for 45 years. I've been doing

Speaker 7  1:28:22
that. A good thing Stefan did was you. He started out just going straight to the people's homes, and then he found a really cool guy who had a gym. And gyms, I've seen this more than once, behind the fronts and all the equipment, they sometimes have quite a few rooms, because these strip malls have depth to them. So Stefan rented a windowless, windowless room behind the it

Speaker 11  1:28:49
was a, it was a yoga studio in the gym, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:28:52
studio. And I was standing up out front of the people coming in to the gym,

Speaker 11  1:28:58
and you'd like direct them past there.

Speaker 7  1:29:00
Weight bars, and

Speaker 3  1:29:02
you

Speaker 11  1:29:03
know, you'd have the old lady going to her appointment, and there'd be a big muscle that just doing 100 pound dumbbells. But that was my goal. I always want the patients to understand, hey, muscle is part of medicine. So I strategically chose a gym. I don't think everybody here would choose a gym as their first location, but that

Speaker 7  1:29:20
was they do have open spaces back there, so so does the beach bodies have a lot of rooms in the back? Yeah? And then when stuff on first rented this place, a do was sharing the building.

Speaker 3  1:29:33
Yeah, I

Speaker 11  1:29:34
shared the rent,

Speaker 7  1:29:34
so he was keeping the overhead down.

Speaker 11  1:29:36
Yeah. I shared the rent. I split the rent with a do, who's doing the same thing. I actually taught him this whole thing too, and we shared the rent, but soon, we very quickly grew out of this, and so he got his own place, and I stayed here just because of the exponential growth.

Bill Clearfield  1:29:51
Okay,

Speaker 2  1:29:52
here's a question from our viewers, what is your biggest financial, operational pitfall that you can share for us practitioners, especially when you're doing your startup, or, yeah, any like lesson, like, a really stand out lesson for

Speaker 11  1:30:08
I really didn't make any very expensive mistakes. The worst thing I did was maybe buy an ultrasound. A portable ultrasound is like $3,000 I bought it in like, year, year one, because it was cool new technology, and I wanted it, and I like, I barely use it. I've used it, like, five times. Like, don't buy expensive machinery. First out, just yourself in the stethoscope. That's it.

Speaker 2  1:30:30
When you say first out, meaning in the future as you kind of gain the money for that. Oh, yeah.

Speaker 11  1:30:36
Oh, I have all this stuff now. I mean, I have the cold plunge, cost me $30,000 I mean, I have the sauna. Cost me $8,000 I have this. Luckily, I got this massage chair donated to me by a patient, but that would have been $10,000 don't buy that stuff first thing now you're gonna put yourself in like 10 30% interest on credit cards.

Speaker 2  1:30:55
There you go. That's the lesson there. Don't get excited when you're

Speaker 11  1:30:58
starting your credit cards in full every month. I've never missed a payment.

Speaker 7  1:31:02
Yeah, he was still driving the car he drove in college. He was still driving it when he started the business for quite a while.

Speaker 3  1:31:11
Yeah,

Speaker 7  1:31:12
that car had long been paid off.

Speaker 3  1:31:14
Yep,

Speaker 2  1:31:15
Dr Bill was your dad's car.

Bill Clearfield  1:31:18
I have my still at my father's car. It's my inheritance. He's

Speaker 2  1:31:20
still running

Bill Clearfield  1:31:22
back. It's all bashed in. I when I was in San Francisco last year the conference, nobody bothered my car on the street.

Speaker 7  1:31:29
Yeah, yeah. Belle has Stefan's car now.

Speaker 3  1:31:33
Oh yeah,

Speaker 11  1:31:34
sister,

Speaker 7  1:31:34
somebody stole her key at the club and went out. And of course, when they went to steal it. It's a stick shift, so they

Speaker 11  1:31:42
couldn't steal

Speaker 7  1:31:43
it. Well,

Speaker 11  1:31:43
they left the keys in the car. Then,

Speaker 7  1:31:45
no, no, they were too mean, but they didn't steal her car.

Speaker 2  1:31:52
A car is that old, so it's already out of hey,

Bill Clearfield  1:31:55
I like, I liked it. Every once in a while, some somebody comes around with, you know, in a in a truck. They want, they want to buff out dance and scrap, scrap scrapes. I said, No, no, thanks. I like it just the way it is,

Speaker 7  1:32:08
right.

Bill Clearfield  1:32:11
So,

Speaker 13  1:32:12
so I'm sorry I had a question. So, like simultaneously while, well, while your members have their membership, do you also advise them to have their own normal insurance at the same time.

Speaker 11  1:32:24
Good question, yeah, I do. I say, what don't you don't have to cancel in your insurance if you can afford it, but a lot of patients, they end up do canceling their insurance.

Speaker 7  1:32:32
Well, I would they call me. I say, Look, we try to handle all urgent care issues, but in case there was a big problem. You you keep your insurance. So you know, it's not up to us to tell 'em to drop their insurance, but I'm

Speaker 11  1:32:47
sure. But I have had many patients drop their insurance because we manage so much here, they figure, why am I spending $20,000 a year on premiums? I could be investing so much more of that back into my health. I'm like, Well, you're not wrong. But you know, if you do have an ER bill, you can ask for itemized costs on that, and you can oftentimes get the rates down. There's cash pay surgeons, more and more surgeons are going cash pay because they're not getting reimbursed. They're not getting paid. They're losing money from insurance companies. So you can find cash rates for surgeries. The only thing I really be concerned about, we'd be, like, cancer care, that would be kind of expensive, out of pocket. That'd be the only thing I'd really worried about,

Bill Clearfield  1:33:27
about getting hit by a truck,

Speaker 11  1:33:31
yeah? Like a big trauma like that. That'd be problematic,

Speaker 7  1:33:36
right?

Speaker 3  1:33:37
Yeah.

Speaker 13  1:33:38
So for for those type of patients, like, say, cancer patients, for example. Like, of course, you want them to see an oncologist. So, like, do you do you advise those patients to set up through their insurance of normal PCP so they can refer the patients directly to an oncologist.

Speaker 11  1:33:56
Let's see a few cancer patients I've had. They've had a PCP and me doing complimentary work already. So, yeah, but I would, they would already be established with an oncologist. I mean, it's happened a few times.

Speaker 7  1:34:10
People call me. They've been going to specialists for

Speaker 11  1:34:12
a long time. Yeah, diagnosed a cancer or two, and I managed to refer them to an oncologist who was not an issue.

Speaker 3  1:34:18
Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 13  1:34:19
I guess my I guess what I'm leading towards is like, let's say that if I had my own DPC practice and I opted out of Medicare, if I were to refer like, let's say to some specialist, a pulmonologist, for example, they have to list somebody as a referring physician so that they can get their reimbursement. So like, if they list you as a referring physician that's out of Medicare, wouldn't that be an issue?

Speaker 11  1:34:47
It has happened once before where that was an issue and yeah, one patient she I referred her to physical therapy because she had a clavicular fracture and they wouldn't take it because she needed to be referred by a PCP, and so she needed to go see the PA PCP to get it covered by insurance. So that was really strange, and I'm hoping that changes in the legislature at some point,

Speaker 7  1:35:11
send her to the guy I always send people to. I

Speaker 11  1:35:13
mean, that's that's something to to lobby your representatives at the state level about, and that's something I'm doing, I'm getting involved politically now, because I've seen a couple of these cases, and I know that the more this grows, the more the healthcare lobby is going to lobby against us and reduce our prescriptive rights, reduce our referral rights in non insurance based practice. So getting politically active is probably important for this industry to be successful.

Speaker 3  1:35:44
Okay,

Speaker 6  1:35:44
so

Speaker 15  1:35:45
question, if that's okay,

Speaker 3  1:35:47
yes,

Speaker 15  1:35:48
just Yeah, I would think that it could get a little sticky stuff, such as if people opt out of having insurance, things like screening, colonoscopy screening, you know, CAT scans for smokers. How do you manage that?

Speaker 11  1:36:03
Those are cheap? A CT lung is about 125 bucks. Screening, colonoscopy. I have a guy here. He'll do it for 2700 there's all always cash rates for those

Bill Clearfield  1:36:15
interesting echoes, cardiac Echo. Echo

Speaker 11  1:36:19
is 300 bucks. We have a lady, she'll actually come in here and do an echo for 399 is it 399 is it read by a cardiologist? Yeah, read by a cardiologist. Mom just had her C, I m t done her carotid.

Speaker 7  1:36:33
It was very nice here at the office. 'On was complaining about my lipid numbers. So I got my c i m t done, and I don't have any soft plaque.

Speaker 15  1:36:46
Yeah, and I and just a quick question, if others have experienced this, I'm seeing it more and more now, when you send people off to quest, you I always use their insurance. All of a sudden they're not paying for anything, and like your patients to get in these huge bills. So I'm currently in negotiations with quest. You know, if I use their insurance and have their insurance cover whatever they'll cover, will you still honor the the cash pay rates for the other labs, like so, if I send them through Rupa or vitamin D, is $10 but if I send it through their insurance, it's 150 it's crazy.

Speaker 11  1:37:22
Yep, it's just crazy.

Speaker 3  1:37:23
Yeah,

Speaker 11  1:37:24
yeah.

Speaker 7  1:37:25
They'll ask me about that every day, and I'm like, when I guess they want to make sure they can charge the government a lot. I don't

Speaker 11  1:37:32
know what it Yeah, something like that. We usually do all or nothing. We say, either do it through your insurance or you do it cash rate with us. We can flip it if it happens. But,

Speaker 15  1:37:44
yeah, I'm in negotiations now with quest to see if there's any way to money, any way around that. But didn't know if anyone else had experience.

Speaker 2  1:37:52
I think one of the things there is, when you give out a lab request, there will be a box there that would says, Bill patient?

Speaker 3  1:38:02
Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:38:03
directly. So I think that's one way to protect yourself, because I have these issues also that they came back to me, but we showed them that, hey, we showed this patient that they can't charge Medicare for it, and that kind of helps you for protection

Speaker 11  1:38:18
Exactly.

Speaker 15  1:38:19
So instead of doing Apx to their insurance. You're saying Bill patient directly,

Speaker 3  1:38:24
yeah,

Speaker 15  1:38:25
but then the patient's on the hook for the you have to explain to them that,

Speaker 2  1:38:29
oh, right, right. Of course, you need to be upfront about that so, but also, when you say that, I also have offers that, okay, whatever your insurance does, let's do it and bring me that result back. And whatever I need, I'm gonna, like, charge you through Rupa or through so at least it's like a piecemeal and they utilize the insurance money for covered services.

Speaker 15  1:38:51
Yeah, I'm trying to get around that. Yeah. So I put a disclaimer on every one of my notes. It's on the template that you know I will use insurance for your labs, but I cannot guarantee that they'll be covered that I asked, I suggest that you check what is covered and what's not, and decline if you would like to

Speaker 3  1:39:10
exactly,

Speaker 7  1:39:10
but

Speaker 3  1:39:11
you never

Speaker 2  1:39:11
put that on your lab request. I don't know if

Speaker 3  1:39:13
you have

Speaker 15  1:39:14
any. I put it on the lab. I put it on everything

Speaker 2  1:39:16
right

Speaker 15  1:39:17
be in, but inevitably, they still don't read it? No, they don't read big bill. And I've

Speaker 11  1:39:23
learned that patients don't

Speaker 3  1:39:24
read

Speaker 15  1:39:24
they don't read anything.

Speaker 3  1:39:25
No, at least

Speaker 2  1:39:28
you got yourself covered. That's the best part about that.

Speaker 1  1:39:34
Okay, another important question, what kind of car are you driving?

Speaker 11  1:39:39
I'm driving Ford, f1 50 company

Speaker 3  1:39:43
card.

Speaker 1  1:39:44
Amen. What year? I would have not guessed that 2019

Speaker 11  1:39:48
it's very important. I'm TR, I'm Bill, building stuff, bringing stuff all the time. I need

Speaker 3  1:39:52
it

Speaker 1  1:39:53
exactly, exactly

Speaker 11  1:39:54
ladders. It's always something that breaks here.

Speaker 1  1:39:58
Yeah. Well, you'd be surprised. My Subaru Outback can actually get an extra long twin bed in it,

Speaker 3  1:40:04
but

Speaker 1  1:40:05
I am touching the steering wheel when I drive.

Speaker 11  1:40:08
Very handy to have a dad who's an aerospace engineer. He fixes stuff here all the time. It always breaks right.

Speaker 1  1:40:15
Priceless.

Speaker 11  1:40:17
Shareholder too, Rupa, all family members are shareholders, which is also very good for workman's comp. You don't need to buy workman's comp if all your employees are family members,

Speaker 1  1:40:28
right? Yep,

Speaker 7  1:40:33
the family members will like I, I'll answer the phone at 9pm because we're automated. Other than New Year's man. They told me in January, the phone was ringing off the hook. You know, New year, new people of Melbourne, Florida,

Speaker 3  1:40:48
yeah,

Speaker 7  1:40:48
but then that slowed down after a while. I don't want that many calls, but I'll answer the phone whenever. And people are happy that I'm not mad at them, but I'm like, Oh, I'm not mad. I want to talk about health, and I'm a happy camper. Okay, get to go to Verona.

Speaker 11  1:41:03
Yeah, you get to go to Verona for our conference. She came to iform with us in West Palm

Speaker 7  1:41:08
that was good. That was a good time.

Speaker 1  1:41:12
Another question, you don't have to buy it if family members, workers, comp,

Speaker 11  1:41:20
what about

Speaker 1  1:41:22
it? It says charity for those situations. You don't have to buy it if family members,

Speaker 11  1:41:29
right,

Speaker 3  1:41:29
right?

Speaker 4  1:41:33
I'm sorry. I just heard Stefan. Stefan saying that I don't have to buy worker compensation because I have all my family members shareholders. So you don't have

Speaker 11  1:41:47
employees, yeah, is a certain amount of employees where you need to buy workman's comp. And then if you have family members, you can opt out of work also in the medical. So workman's might be important if you're in, like, construction, but if in the medical you don't always need workman's comp. It's like very low risk area for,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:04
I wouldn't try that here.

Speaker 12  1:42:07
They're on that,

Speaker 4  1:42:07
like

Speaker 12  1:42:08
they're on that, they're on

Speaker 11  1:42:10
the state

Bill Clearfield  1:42:10
depends

Speaker 11  1:42:12
on the state. Pro,

Speaker 3  1:42:13
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:14
I didn't even know about workers comp, and I had one, one employee for eight hours, eight hours a week, and I got fined all sorts of things for not having it.

Speaker 3  1:42:24
You

Bill Clearfield  1:42:24
have to have a poster hung up, and you

Speaker 3  1:42:26
have to do this, right?

Bill Clearfield  1:42:29
We have a payroll company, and they do it all.

Speaker 11  1:42:31
There you go.

Speaker 7  1:42:32
Very nice

Speaker 16  1:42:33
is that, even if they're 1099

Speaker 3  1:42:37
though I think

Speaker 11  1:42:37
it's for employees,

Bill Clearfield  1:42:41
well, you showed us

Speaker 15  1:42:42
10 Nine Nine, would they be contracted? Right?

Speaker 11  1:42:44
Yeah, it's contractors, different

Bill Clearfield  1:42:50
withholding and all of that for your everybody who works there, right?

Speaker 11  1:42:53
Yeah, 1099 is no there's no withholdings. They have to do their own taxes.

Speaker 7  1:43:01
Call goose too, and change the withholding. Probably,

Speaker 3  1:43:04
no, you don't

Speaker 7  1:43:06
good.

Speaker 11  1:43:06
No, you're not a 1099 you're an employee.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:08
You're not a 1099 mom,

Speaker 3  1:43:10
oh, yeah,

Speaker 7  1:43:11
there's withholding on my employee,

Speaker 11  1:43:14
one of my nurse practitioners, he is a 1099 because I because his revenue isn't tied to a salary. It's tied based off of commission, right? How much he generates every month, and then he makes a percentage off of that, so it's not stagnant, really.

Speaker 7  1:43:32
And he sets his own hours, and you don't tell him what to do. That's why He's

Speaker 3  1:43:35
really

Speaker 7  1:43:35
He's a 1099,

Bill Clearfield  1:43:39
I would be careful with that, especially if you, if, if they have set hours that you that somebody sets for them,

Speaker 7  1:43:46
no, they set their own hours. Yeah, that's, that's

Speaker 11  1:43:50
their own hours.

Speaker 7  1:43:51
Hey, he comes,

Speaker 3  1:43:52
always a

Bill Clearfield  1:43:53
loophole, huh?

Speaker 3  1:43:54
Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:43:56
And the patients, they come and they do sauna and cold lunch for free

Speaker 11  1:44:03
members of this area. We have about 50 members of our wellness area here,

Speaker 3  1:44:09
yeah. Well,

Speaker 1  1:44:12
I think that's, I think that's what people are so busy. It's not like they could just come to you every single day. It just, you know, most people are just super busy. So I, you know, I could see how this works,

Speaker 7  1:44:28
right? If I, if I bothered Stephanie, you would send me for more blood.

Speaker 11  1:44:32
The thing also is different is because you have to remove yourself from the fee per service mindset, where you have to bring the patient in to get reimbursed for your service. So a lot of times, little text message, little portal message, little refill. It takes care of it. So I don't need to actually have that face to face encounter, because I don't need to get paid for it.

Speaker 7  1:44:51
But when you're as I tell people, okay, if you figure out just one little thing that then you can sleep better at night. All of this is cumulative in improving aging, and you can just run this by your provider. It's it's a really good investment. You're not going to go in there every week for an hour, but as you come up with ideas and try things you can run it past them,

Speaker 1  1:45:22
and, God forbid, I'm knocking on wood. Imagine if we went into another shutdown. You're basically set up already. You and the patients both have you know, it's like insurance.

Speaker 7  1:45:34
Oh yeah,

Speaker 1  1:45:35
that's awesome.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:38
All right,

Speaker 6  1:45:40
that's

Bill Clearfield  1:45:40
it. Tell me one more. Tell me again how you handle appointments. Because I, you know, I get it. I mean, how that happens? So you don't have four people scheduled at the same time.

Speaker 11  1:45:50
Oh, well, it's all automated with Elation. That's one thing Elation is very good at, is there's a self sketching link the patient logs into the portal and finds an opening in my schedule and clicks it and and then they're on my schedule. Whether it's zoom or in person,

Speaker 7  1:46:05
I would say, maybe once a day somebody will call and say, Oh, you tell Ashley I'm stuck in traffic. Yeah, they could text her, but they're embarrassed she hasn't answered. Or for some reason, they can't delete an appointment. It happens. It happens. But, you know, there's 1000 I am not getting 1000 calls a day. That would be just a couple. And it's mostly sales. It's mostly people that are curious or word of mouth, not that many issues.

Speaker 11  1:46:37
It's all

Speaker 7  1:46:37
automated. It's easy to navigate.

Speaker 11  1:46:40
Hence

Speaker 3  1:46:40
I

Speaker 7  1:46:41
log in.

Speaker 3  1:46:41
You

Speaker 11  1:46:41
know, there's no billing person. It is hint. It's a robot. It takes the payments, processes them, it puts it in my bank account. It's done. So that takes off so much burden of taking transactions from patients and it, you know, it bites my hands of dealing with dirty money, I can take care of the patient. I don't need to make sure they're paying for things. You know, it's a lot cleaner that way.

Speaker 7  1:47:02
I mean, occasionally somebody will call me and say, What is this invoice? But they must be able to figure it out, mostly by them.

Speaker 11  1:47:08
They don't read they do get those invoices through their email. It says clearly what the lab is for, because my wife billed them for the lab, but they didn't open the invoice.

Speaker 7  1:47:17
Yeah. So if that does happen, I open, hint a copy of it and I email it to them, but that, fortunately, that's, that's rare. I'll just

Bill Clearfield  1:47:27
all right, Okay, anybody else? Well, this was fascinating stuff on so

Speaker 1  1:47:33
excellent.

Speaker 11  1:47:34
Did we convert you? Dr Clearfield, are you gonna start doing this?

Bill Clearfield  1:47:37
I'm getting there, you know, another 20 years, and I'll

Speaker 3  1:47:41
have

Bill Clearfield  1:47:45
it down. We have a next door to us. We brought in an outfit that does it has hyperbaric oxygen and red light, and it's got cryo, some cryo over there, and cold, the cold therapy and whatnot. So it's a separate entity, but we're sort of, we're slowly merging here. So you

Speaker 11  1:48:07
should think about the membership model. It might, you know, decrease your overhead, might make life a lot easier for you and

Bill Clearfield  1:48:14
well, you know, if you known me, do I do anything these the easy way?

Speaker 11  1:48:18
No, you don't. You don't

Speaker 1  1:48:20
I'm working on it, working on it.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:24
Though

Speaker 4  1:48:26
I was director of a spa which was called, which is first spa in New Jersey, and they like oncology treatments. They are tax free.

Speaker 3  1:48:38
And

Speaker 4  1:48:38
they were only selling they were only selling packages lymphatic massage and then all kind of things for beauty, like eyebrow tattoos removal or pigmentation of the liner for the eyes and Things like that, because patients that are on and hair like because patients that are on chemotherapy, they also want to feel nice

Bill Clearfield  1:49:09
laughing at the eyebrow tattoos, the tattoos removal. So Stefan's a big fan of it, aren't you?

Speaker 11  1:49:15
You have great eyebrows. Doctor Clearfield

Speaker 7  1:49:18
angels,

Speaker 12  1:49:20
well,

Speaker 11  1:49:20
thank

Speaker 14  1:49:21
you. I don't know I've ever complimented on my eyebrows before.

Bill Clearfield  1:49:29
Okay, so you're you told us you're going to be in Italy. Any of it online, you know you

Speaker 11  1:49:38
maybe you

Bill Clearfield  1:49:39
should

Bill Clearfield  1:49:39
come. It's a great,

Speaker 11  1:49:41
come on, great excuse to put it on the company tab. Come with us to Italy.

Speaker 1  1:49:46
Right?

Bill Clearfield  1:49:48
Let's see what I'm IFM at the end of the month.

Speaker 11  1:49:51
Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:49:52
I'm a little bit, I'm a little bit worried that the person I've been dealing with got fired. So, so we'll see. Well, hopefully, hopefully it'll still work. So

Speaker 11  1:50:04
I know Melvin likes to travel internationally. He might take the excuse to come,

Speaker 1  1:50:07
right?

Speaker 2  1:50:08
Hey, I would love to, I got some some speaking engagements the next few months. When is your trip?

Speaker 11  1:50:15
September 20. Is the September

Speaker 2  1:50:18
Okay, that's still a ways out. I'm gonna try and look for

Speaker 11  1:50:21
that? Yeah, I know he loves an excuse to travel.

Speaker 7  1:50:23
The weather won't be so hot. That's very

Speaker 3  1:50:27
nice

Speaker 11  1:50:28
Italy. September is perfect.

Speaker 7  1:50:29
August is so hot, but September, it's already cooler, so nice.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:34
Not like January, like brookesbury in January,

Speaker 7  1:50:37
there's castles, and

Speaker 11  1:50:41
Chiro Biller, you know, I interviewed at a PA school. It was so cold, right? All right, see you guys,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:49
thank you. Thank

Bill Clearfield  1:50:50
you. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:50:51
next week, we have Chris melitas, and so he'll be, he'll be with us next week, the week after that, is Memorial Day weekend, and then the next day I'm leaving for IFM, so I might just take that Tuesday off. Somebody, somebody wants to, wants to be the host. Let me know, see if mom's doing anything. All right, so at that, that's the 26th of May, so I might just take that, that Tuesday off so, but next week we have Chris movidis, please spread the word. Let us know I will be at IFM for their international conference on May 27 to the 30th. And Dr Nario, what do you said? You have some things coming up?

Speaker 2  1:51:35
Yeah. Well, a nursing school just on the spot invited me to speak this coming Friday. So I'm making slides for that. And I think in June is

Speaker 3  1:51:45
that local?

Speaker 2  1:51:47
No, it's actually the Philippines. So they just tap

Speaker 3  1:51:50
into the

Bill Clearfield  1:51:50
Philippines on Friday.

Speaker 2  1:51:52
Yeah, online so, and then same on June, I have another speaking engagement, again, another the for the Philippines. So that's a big the one of the bigger hospitals there, so they're trying to get integrative medicine from the states to be jumped over there. So that's a, that's a pretty big one.

Speaker 1  1:52:10
What part of the Philippines?

Speaker 2  1:52:12
Manila, Metro. Manila,

Speaker 1  1:52:15
nice. Do you deal with anything over there with the VA?

Speaker 2  1:52:19
No, unfortunately, I don't think they have VA services there. No,

Speaker 1  1:52:24
they're the only country outside of America that actually has a veteran.

Speaker 2  1:52:28
Oh, really. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:52:30
yep, I might travel with you here.

Speaker 2  1:52:35
Let's do it

Speaker 1  1:52:37
Amen,

Bill Clearfield  1:52:40
alrighty. Okay, so we'll see you all next week. There were some new names on some new folks here tonight. Thank you for coming. We're here every week. Five o'clock Pacific, eight o'clock Eastern. If you have something you want to present to the group, please let us, let us know. And we remember our website, aosrd.org, or on YouTube. It's Clearfield Medical Group. We have just about every video every week that we that have been on there, unless the videos got messed up or something, or YouTube pulled them off. But we have about six years worth of video content, so someday I might do something with it. I'm not sure. Okay, Dr, naryo, thank you, as always, for your help. Joel, thank you for your help. And everybody who's who's participates. Thanks. Thanks for being with us. We'll be here next week. And if you again, if somebody wants, has anything they like to present, please let us know if you're speaking somewhere, if you have a book, if you have a course, let us know we can, we can advertise it for you. We can put it in the in the newsletter, in the email that we send out every week. And you know, we're all here to help each other. So and Hey, Dr Nario, how much more time do you have with Dr? Dr weils, thing,

Speaker 2  1:54:04
it's still almost nearly a year, but almost there.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:09
So got another year to go.

Speaker 2  1:54:10
Almost, almost there.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:12
Okay, all right,

Speaker 6  1:54:14
I'll say hi.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:17
Can we go? Can we go to the graduation?

Speaker 2  1:54:19
Oh, yeah, sure. The togas are going to fly.

Bill Clearfield  1:54:22
Yeah? Mm hmm. Okay. Think we can get him one on one one night.

Speaker 2  1:54:27
I'll try to pull him out once I kind of passed my exams already. I don't want to get on his bad side if I kind of say the wrong things, because I'm so nervous asking him for this. So

Bill Clearfield  1:54:37
why would you be nervous of asking for

Speaker 2  1:54:39
it? I don't know. He's the he's the man. If you look at him, it's like, you need to roll the red carpet for the guy. You

Bill Clearfield  1:54:44
know, I felt that way when we first started talking to Dr McCullough, and he was just the nicest guy. And he was just like, you know, hey, you know, Hey, Bill, how's it going? Like we were best friends forever.

Speaker 2  1:54:56
I'll make sure, before the year ends, I'll pull that invitation in.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:01
Okay, we'll do that. Alright. You're going to hold you

Speaker 3  1:55:03
to

Speaker 2  1:55:04
it. Yes, we will do it.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:06
Alright. Everybody, alright. Thank you all. We'll see you again next week, same time, same station, and

Speaker 1  1:55:13
take care. Everybody,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:14
any, any,

Speaker 1  1:55:17
any

Bill Clearfield  1:55:17
ideas for any, any speakers, let it. Let us know too.

Speaker 4  1:55:21
Yes, I would like to say maybe I know about Zino. So it is very important to the Omega six to Omega three ratio for everything, for inflammation, to decrease inflammation. And there it's testing. And it's a business about with Zino, but they are the best Omega three in the world, in the world, Zino. Zino,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:51
well, we had them on. We had them on a couple weeks ago.

Speaker 4  1:55:56
Oh, maybe I missed it with Dr Easter.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:59
We had biller. Dr Bill Andrews was doing,

Speaker 2  1:56:03
no, that's, that's not Zino. Dr Bill, it's a different presentation. We got.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:10
They were at our conference, and,

Speaker 5  1:56:12
yeah, they were at the conference.

Speaker 1  1:56:14
Yeah, we got some supplements first.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:16
Yeah, we have some. I have some in my, in my in my kitchen. They said,

Speaker 4  1:56:20
this is the most important, the Omega three to omega six. They said that if normal, then nobody will get heart attack.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:31
Yeah, they have some tests. Okay, I'll look into it. Okay, yeah. They have, yeah. They did it. They did a an Omega three, six to Omega three for Christie, or the Omega three and vitamin D supplement the executive director of the homeopathic medical examiners, and it was 50 to one. Wow. It's supposed

Speaker 4  1:56:54
to be like,

Speaker 5  1:56:57
that's not very good.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:58
No, it's not. There goes our director

Speaker 4  1:57:05
and somebody who came to this conference talk about, said about Zino. There was somebody who was lecturing at Cambridge maybe two months ago, and he mentioned about Zino. I heard

Bill Clearfield  1:57:22
Alan Michaels. Is his name? I know. I know what you

Speaker 3  1:57:25
mean. Yeah, okay,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:26
all right, all right, we'll get the Zino people on. Okay,

Speaker 4  1:57:30
okay, thank you. I

Speaker 5  1:57:32
can suggest someone for you if you're interested.

Bill Clearfield  1:57:35
Last guy you had was great. We left. We liked him a lot.

Speaker 3  1:57:39
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:57:40
yeah,

Speaker 5  1:57:40
I'll inquire with a buddy that's in it pretty deep, and it's for real. I've used the oil with several people absent. Seizures stopped in 14 days. Macular degenerate, early macular degeneration changes reversed, and the glaucoma went down, and cataracts reversed. The ophthalmologist couldn't believe and never saw it before.

Speaker 4  1:58:06
Wow, yeah, that's amazing, because that I attended some I am with them in the group within Zino, with the there is a president from Dr Richter, and he's a PhD. He's that's Chinese medicine and acupuncture and all those

Speaker 3  1:58:24
very

Speaker 4  1:58:25
interesting

Bill Clearfield  1:58:28
Okay,

Speaker 5  1:58:29
when I send you his name, his name's Hans Richter,

Speaker 4  1:58:32
yeah, yeah. Dr Hans Richter, yeah. Are you with us in the group for Zino on the WhatsApp?

Speaker 5  1:58:40
Yeah.

Speaker 4  1:58:41
Yeah, it's amazing. Okay, thank you.

Speaker 1  1:58:46
Thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:58:48
All right, thank you. All right, thanks everybody.

Speaker 5  1:58:52
All right,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:52
next time,

Speaker 5  1:58:53
great week. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai