Bill Clearfield  01:10
Hello, everybody, welcome. It's always good to see see, see you here and some new folks can unmute yourself. Hi. Dr zeren,

Unknown Speaker  01:20
Hi, Doctor, how are you

Bill Clearfield  01:22
just me from this morning?

Speaker 1  01:24
Yes, good to see you. Two times in a day,

Bill Clearfield  01:28
two times in a day, it's it's too much for even myself. I think so.

Speaker 1  01:32
Not for me, maybe for you. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  01:37
yeah, so, yeah, okay, so we'll let you, once we kind of get rolling, we'll let you welcome yourself. Okay, doctor, Sam, nice to see you again. And there's a couple of names here I don't recognize, so it's always good to have some new folks. Mm, hmm. So I was in Salt Lake City last week at a age management medical conference. So, oh, we actually talked about how to prolong life, how to prolong your life. So for what?

Speaker 1  02:18
When they asked me to prolong your life. I said, Okay, can you tell me the reasons?

Bill Clearfield  02:23
You never, you never you never know. You never know what's going to happen. You know, come come about in the next day, right? So, yeah, yeah. So one of these days, we'll get the books finished, right? So we need to live. I need to be around long enough to finish them.

Unknown Speaker  02:40
Oh, you're writing the books I'm trying.

Bill Clearfield  02:45
My organizational skills, as you know, are not are a little less than perfect. Our speakers here, so that's good.

Unknown Speaker  02:57
Who's our speaker tonight? Doctor.

Bill Clearfield  03:01
I She's a natural. Hello.

Unknown Speaker  03:08
Thank you guys hear me.

Bill Clearfield  03:13
Thank you for being with us. Yeah,

Speaker 2  03:15
thanks for having me excited to chat with you guys and talk shit tonight. It's going to be good. Here

Bill Clearfield  03:21
we go. So my mother knew what I did for a living, she would have a cow, right? So, you

Speaker 2  03:27
know, my mom told me that I can't get much grosser than what I do, so I get it. There you go. We can't impress all of them, you know. Yeah, no,

Bill Clearfield  03:39
I know. So, yeah, we usually start, you know, a little bit after five doctors, Aaron was and I don't know what what you're seeing on your screen is top right there, where it says, bio quantum Academy. We're holding a a conference at the end of the week, a zoom conference. I'm going to let her for about five minutes just talk about it and invite folks. Okay, and then we'll introduce you, and away you go. It is we do have CME credit available, two credits, and I'll put the link in. It's just a check off list online. And if you can, so we'll introduce you. We can talk about your whatever, SFI health, whatever that is, and what you do during the didactic part, if you could, as best you can, stay away from brand names, and, you know, in, you know, endorsements of of any types of products, that's would be great when we're done, when you're done then, but we'll, we turn the video off, and then we can talk freely about, you know, whatever, whatever it is You want.

Unknown Speaker  04:58
Totally

Bill Clearfield  04:59
we get, we get a participant list, an email list, and we'll send that to you, and you can contact folks afterwards, when you're if you have any courses, offers, books, you know, if you get pets you want to get rid of some maybe, or

Speaker 2  05:21
if people want to get rid of theirs, they can always hand over to me. I'm a big animal lover, so they it'd be hard, I'd be hard pressed, to get rid of an animal.

Bill Clearfield  05:32
Okay, Dr Gerber is nice to see you. I got you on his co co host, okay, so, so the mountain, Bet you're looking there is my right hand guy. He's my guys. He's known as the beard of knowledge.

Speaker 2  05:51
I love it. How long is your beard? You just, like, pulled it out, and I was just like, how is it as long as my hair? You know, it's my hair.

Unknown Speaker  05:59
Maybe,

Bill Clearfield  06:00
probably longer.

Speaker 2  06:03
Wow, that's impressive. How many years have you been growing that? Since about 2017, Oh, nice.

Speaker 3  06:10
And I attribute it to bioidentical hormone replacement therapy with Doc. Nice, amen.

Bill Clearfield  06:17
And when we met, when we met, Joel had no hair. He wasn't growing anywhere, not at all.

Speaker 3  06:24
And it was all in my head and I was stressing. And you know, the good old VA hospital. No comment.

Speaker 2  06:34
Oh man, the things that can be said there, yep, no comments. The safest direction to go. Well done. Joel,

Unknown Speaker  06:43
it is, yeah.

Speaker 2  06:46
Well, great. It's really lovely to meet all of you guys. I'm excited to talk your ear off. Yeah. Also, yeah. I know it's CME event. I wish you could just interrupt and talk. We have folks who

Bill Clearfield  06:57
they filter in, usually over the next 15 that we usually start a little bit right after five our time. No problem.

Speaker 2  07:03
I'm actually in the Pacific Time Zone right now, but I'm, I live in Idaho, just outside of Boise. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  07:11
good, yeah. So, so Dr Nario, good to see you back from Germany.

Unknown Speaker  07:19
Yes, I'm back.

Speaker 1  07:23
Totally picture, yeah, so, yeah, no, that's it. Now

Unknown Speaker  07:28
you're back. Do

Bill Clearfield  07:32
you have jet lag?

Speaker 4  07:34
Back with jet lag? And yeah, I'm I was kind of sleepy when I was seeing patients, so

Bill Clearfield  07:42
trying to get in there, you said you got back last night. You saw patience today? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  07:49
they cracked that whip on

Bill Clearfield  07:51
me. You know, nice to be young, right?

Unknown Speaker  07:55
They just don't want me slack. Usually for me, it's

Bill Clearfield  07:57
the day after. The day after is I? That's when I crash.

Speaker 4  08:03
Well, yeah, I'm still feeling it. Well, it's an election, so who's gonna sleep on that?

Speaker 4  08:12
No, I was worried that I needed to get back here because people were saying that it's gonna get crazy if I yesterday,

Bill Clearfield  08:20
Yeah, yesterday in my mailbox yesterday, for the first time, didn't have at least 10 political flyers in it, and I didn't get 37 text messages today.

Unknown Speaker  08:36
Who did you vote for?

Bill Clearfield  08:38
Well, you're not, that's we're not gonna we're not going there. All the ads and all the flyers, they basically come down to this, if you, if you, if my vote, if my opponent, would cease to exist. Life would be

Unknown Speaker  08:58
they won't even let him speak.

Unknown Speaker  08:59
I know they turned him off. Good luck, man.

Unknown Speaker  09:04
Good luck.

Speaker 3  09:06
That's so funny. Well, it, you know, and ironically, people don't realize the people don't really vote the Electoral College puts in the president. We don't you just no other way to put it.

Unknown Speaker  09:24
They're listening just having this conversation. I

Speaker 3  09:26
know they are. I know they are. They've been listening to me for a while.

Speaker 4  09:35
Hey, Piper, I'm pretty excited to see your I saw the album pretty odd. I have questions already for you. Oh

Speaker 2  09:43
my gosh, cool. I'm excited. Well, I'm excited that you're excited. That makes me more excited.

Unknown Speaker  09:48
Amen,

Unknown Speaker  09:49
yeah, is Marissa with us.

Speaker 2  09:53
She's supposed to be. I gave her the link, and she said she really wanted to join, and I think she's planning to join. She might be caught up on a couple of last minute things, but I hope that she'll be here. I'll shoot her a text on and

Speaker 4  10:05
your in your office is in Reno, or just your company, the

Speaker 2  10:09
office is in Reno. I do not live in Reno. I live in just outside of Boise, Idaho. Oh,

Speaker 4  10:16
okay, so you work remotely with them. Yes, it's in Sparks. I think where the the company is, are you? Are

Bill Clearfield  10:29
you so often, or at all? Robert, I

Speaker 2  10:32
go there like, I mean, I was there four times in the last three months. So I go, I go there a time or two, but I'm not supposed to go back until until next year, which I will take. I will definitely take that. If I can make that happen. I'm into it

Unknown Speaker  10:54
about 25 days. It's not a long time,

Bill Clearfield  10:59
not that. It's not that bad. It's not Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, you

Speaker 2  11:04
know, I've never been there. I've actually never been there at all. Oh, hang on. I think

Bill Clearfield  11:09
30 years I lived there trying the Zoom link. You know, it is better. So, so, okay. So welcome everybody. Tonight, we have a special guest. Doctor Piper bobner, she's going to be well, I'll let her talk. Tell you what. She's going to introduce herself. But first, before we begin, body knows, doctors Darren, we have a special conference coming up at this weekend. So doctors Aaron, why don't you take it away, and when you're done, if you put in the chat the the link for everybody, and go for it, and you're muted. You're muted.

Unknown Speaker  12:01
Ah, there you go.

Speaker 1  12:04
Thank you very much. Dr killefield, thank you. Thanks everybody. Yes, yes. Our third international conference is coming up Friday, Friday and Saturday. It's from white quantum Academy in Canada, and Dr killefield is our faculty on board. And so actually both of us with another one, then the main, not the main speaker, but I mean, always the speakers. And we would like to invite you all to join us in these two days. And I have a question. Dr, deliver. Did you get the agenda? Yes, I send you today. Okay, so please just share it with your community, and also Doctor Nario, welcome back to town, and I know I also got your message. The only thing I would like to tell you that because of the one our day, the life saving so in Eastern, Eastern Time, and there's a little bit of difference. That's why, you know, the agenda is a little bit it doesn't go according to the exact timing. So, but we are trying our best to make it happen, especially for Dr na Rio and the topic of our conference is the world of homeopathy and integrative medicine, past, present and future medicine. So if any of you would like to join us, more than welcome, please reach out Dr Clearfield and DR PHIL You can. You can just put it up. Put it up. You know the link, and everybody is welcome to join.

Bill Clearfield  13:44
Okay, great. We'll put the we'll put the link in the chat. Or you can, you can get me. It's Friday, and Saturday, it starts at 10am Eastern seven, eight. Is that right? Yes, yep. 10am Eastern SEVEN, SEVEN Pacific, and wherever you are in between. And we'll figure out for the for the folks in the Philippines, we'll figure out what time, what time that is, so I hope it's not in the middle of the night.

Speaker 1  14:13
So is 10 hours the time, time difference

Bill Clearfield  14:22
there? You know, what's the time difference within the between here in the Philippines? Now it's

Unknown Speaker  14:26
eight o'clock over there in the morning.

Unknown Speaker  14:30
Wow, oh. 10 hours, 12 hours.

Speaker 4  14:33
Yeah, almost, yep, almost

Bill Clearfield  14:37
15 hours. So it's 10, one o'clock in the one o'clock in the afternoon, I wouldn't be so bad, right? Can I get that, right? Mm, hmm, yeah, it'd be one o'clock in the afternoon. Friday afternoon. You know it's,

Speaker 4  14:56
well, they attended the last one that you guys did, the Crash Course. So there were attendees over there

Speaker 1  15:05
to just let you know, this is a certification conference. Everybody is receiving a certificate, so certification of presentation and also certification of participants,

Bill Clearfield  15:15
there we go. So yes, we do more than we leave, and we're proud, Dr dobner to let you know that we've all, most of us here, have escaped the mddo world and you know, and learned and learned the real stuff. That's why, that's why we're here. Oh

Speaker 2  15:36
my god, I love it. When you guys said your topic was homeopathy, I was like, I want to come. I freaking love homeopathy. I think it's such a cool it's just such a cool medicine. And when you nail it, it can really change a patient's picture, which is fun. It's super fun. So I love that. I like the runaways. I mean, I kind of feel like a runaway in my own practice. So we're in my own profession. I love the nds. I definitely think they're we're in the world of the alternatives. But you know, what's really interesting about a lot of the naturopathic profession recently is that they've been trying in the schools, at least, they're trying to head more towards MD land, which is so interesting to me.

Bill Clearfield  16:15
The chiropractors did that too, and we tried to warn them. And all wanted insurance coverage, and then we tried to warn them off of it, but now that they have it, they're very sorry. I deal with a lot of chiropractors too, and they they they're there to a person, sorry that they ever got themselves involved with that. So

Speaker 2  16:39
yeah, but what's so cool about the chiropractors? I mean, the old school chiropractors was like, you guys were the Renegades when it came to fighting the AMA, like you stood up to them and won. Amen. So cool. So anyways,

Bill Clearfield  16:56
so Doctor Piper dobner, upper left, at least on my screen, is our guest tonight, and she's going to kind of get kind of dirty, I guess. So, why don't you, why don't you give us a little background and, and, and let me make sure we're ready to go, and away you go. Awesome.

Speaker 2  17:19
I love it. Let me make sure I can share my PowerPoint with you guys, because that's always the beginning. See if this works. Can you guys see my screen? It's circulating. It

Bill Clearfield  17:29
says it's starting. There we go. Yep, we got it sweet.

Speaker 2  17:33
All right. And then I need to find my little presentation button. No. There we go. All right, so I'm Dr Piper, as has been said, I'm a naturopathic medical doctor in the state of Idaho. We call ourselves NMDs there, which is a little new for me, because I came from Oregon, where I was an ND. All the politics of licensure we don't have to get into but I've been practicing in the world of fecal transplant for about 10 years now, which has been really cool. I've learned so much about the microbiome working in the field of shit. Yes, we are gonna get down and dirty. Yes, I do swear. I hope you guys are all okay with that, but it's such a fascinating field, and it has really shown me the power that microbiome restoration can have. And so I want to share as much of that with you guys as I can. I love clinical cases. I think that that is one of the best ways to learn is to hear patient stories, because it's how you can connect with the medicine. So I've got a few of those thrown in here for you guys. So like, let's dive in and see how it goes. Disclosures, I am the Senior Manager for science and education at SFI health, so I do also rep some microbiome supplements. Don't worry, no names will be mentioned in the making of this CME video. And then I also have my own private clinic, which is biome basics, and it's my clinic out of Idaho, where I still provide fecal transplants for patients with C Diff not responding to standard therapy. I'm very into donor screening and finding the best shit I can possibly find, so more than happy to fill you more in on that when we get into donor screening, because it's something that I love. But if we're going to talk about the microbiome, we need to understand what in the world this is. The microbiome is basically an incredible organ inside of our body, and I really do think of it as an organ, especially when I'm talking about fecal transplants with people, it is four pounds inside of our system, and it is more than just bacteria. We talk a lot about the bacteria and how important the bacteria are. They're over 90% of the microbial organisms that live inside of our guts. But we also have amoebas. We have protozoa, some of us have parasites. We've got lots of fungus in there. It's a whole ecosystem. It's an environment of multiple different organisms that live in us to help keep us alive. We're their host. We're their home. And there's a lot of information out there that shows that their genetics outnumber our genes. There's some studies that say 100 to one, some that say 10 to one, some that say one to one. But at the end of the day, if we think of how many we have versus how many are in existence with us, there's just like at the end of the day, a shit ton of bugs that live inside of us. Is what we can take away from that. I do think it's closer to 10 to one in terms of the genetics, but in terms of bug to sell, it's about one to one. So we have 32 trillion cells inside of our body. We have approximately 32 trillion microbes that live in and on us. And the bugs are super cool. But what's really interesting? So Rob Knight is a PhD researcher out of UCSD. He's phenomenal. If you guys have an opportunity, I highly suggest checking out the TED talk that I linked here. In that talk, he talks about how different each of us are. What's so fascinating about the microbiome is that we can actually use some of this information in forensic science to identify people because of how unique our microbial makeups are. And what's fascinating is, in his lecture, he was talking about, like, if we took everybody who's on this call and we sampled everybody's stool and we did a whole genome sequencing of that stool, which is basically asking the question of, who is there? Who are the microbes present inside of your system? And we were able to lay those all out next to each other, there might be 10% genetic similarity in the names of the microbes that exist inside of our bodies, which is kind of wild to think about, because we start to look at different ratios, and people get really caught up in the name of the bug. I really pull back from that, especially when I start thinking about the microbiome more as an ecosystem, it's more about restoring diversity and getting as many of these different microbial species in complement with each other inside of our intestines. And I also really love this demotivator because it was part of my undergrad education. I was a chemistry major at Southern Oregon University, and our chemistry professor would literally buy calendars and demotivators and post them all over the department. And this one was one of my favorites. Just because you're unique does not mean you are useful. And I think a lot of patients feel that way when it comes to their microbiomes, because they're like, cool, I've got all these bugs inside me and they're not working for me. So what do we do? Like, how do we fix that, right? And so it comes down to really the concept of diversity and getting in more species rather than killing and identifying which species we need to eradicate. So it's really interesting is, there was this study that was conducted back in 2016 and what they did was they took all of these different chronic illnesses that people were experiencing, and they assessed their microbial diversity, and they looked kind of across the board, you know, if you have these different immune diseases, if you have these different metabolic diseases, if you have cancer, what is your microbial diversity look like? And basically, what they came to find was across the board, people with chronic illness or chronic diseases that are common in our western world had low microbial diversity. So it's a way for us to kind of zoom out from all of the like we dive so deep into like, what is the name of the bug? What is the issue going on with this person? Could it be this potential immune cell? And instead of going so deep into, and I don't want to, like,

Speaker 2  23:47
negate it, but I always call it kind of reductionist science, right where we get into, like, what is that key, finite detail that we need to dive into to figure it out? If we could just zoom out and look at this as overall, as a population, we are not getting healthier, and one of the things that's really consistent in our world is that we're losing microbial diversity. What is it that's depleting our biomes? A lot of different things. We've got medications, various medications that we take on a day to day basis have been shown to reduce beta diversity. So alpha diversity is like your own internal, rich richness a single sample, right? And then the beta diversity is looking at your richness in multiple samples compared to each other, right? So like yours compared to somebody else's. It's a nice way to say, oh, okay, like as a whole, your your biome is very rich, or it's very deplete and poor. What's really interesting is that a lot of the common drugs people are on, like N says, Metformin, PPIs, anybody, everybody seems to be on those at this point in time. I do so many de prescribing protocols for PBIS, they're all reducing the diversity inside of our gut. Anti psychotics are another huge class of drugs that are depleting our biomes. And I'll talk more about that when I get to one of my patient cases, but it's something that I think we don't always think about when we're in this world. I mean, you guys are unique because you've stepped outside of the mddo world, and you're in that kind of functional realm, which is awesome. But a lot of our colleagues a quick visit into their office, it's really easy to hand out a prescription and go to the next patient. And unfortunately, not only are these prescriptions impacting the microbiomes of our patients? They're also impacting the microbiomes of the surrounding ecology, which also has its own downstream effects, which is kind of crazy. Then we think about pesticides. I sometimes go to the USGS site and decided not to do it for this particular presentation. But if you look at pesticide use, basically from like the late 90s to now, we're on an exponential curve of increased use. We use so many gallons of pesticides on an annual basis, which is completely eradicating and killing biomes. It's killing our plant biomes. It's killing our own internal, internal microbial environments. It's present in our water. If you look at some of the comparative studies that they've done on mice, like some of the like pro glyphosate studies, which are super fascinating, they'll go and they'll talk about how they gave these mice, or rodents, low doses of glyphosate, and it's like, look, nothing really happened. But then they put in, like, a little fine print note, oh, but like, by the way, the water wasn't fully clear of glyphosate, because it's basically ubiquitous inside of all of our water systems. So glyphosate is not bad, but it's like, Well, is it really not bad? Are we just not able to test it in a true comparison fashion, because we can't really eradicate it unless we're using like our water, which has its own depleting impacts on minerals, right? But we can always re mineralize either way. A lot of things are killing our microbiome, and they're things that we can't really control. They're outside of our control, especially when it comes to pesticides, you can look at your local park map and see how many pesticides that they're using inside of local parks, like kids run barefoot through that those grasses and those grasses have tons of chemicals inside of them to keep them green and looking healthy, and it has impacts and major implications. Um, another thing here, and this is again, going back to the anti psychotics, mostly because a lot of people don't think about this, but the gut, brain axis is so insanely real. And when we're talking about how to support mental health, and people are getting put on anti psychotic medications, what's really interesting is that people who take anti psychotic medications, compared to those who don't take anti psychotic medications, have significant reductions in their microbial diversity. So again, medications, things that we're using on a day to day basis to try and help support, I think it's all with good intention, can actually have some pretty significant and profound, deep bleeding effects on the microbiomes of our patients. So that's all sad and depressing, and I don't always want to be the bummer here. I don't want to bring all the bad news, but I do think that what's really cool about repleting Our biomes is something in the world of stool, right? We can use good shit to replace the bad shit. So I want to talk to you guys about a fecal transplant case study that I had. This was one of my very first patients when I went into practice. And I loved this woman so much. She was a female in her late 60s. She came into my office, and she had been suffering with CETA for four months, and she had acquired zeta after prescription for clindamycin after MRSA infection. So she had, you know, drug resistance, couldn't get over it, took clindamycin and now had insane bowel movements. Right? Like any C Diff patients come in, and sometimes they're in the realm of 10 bowel movements a day. Sometimes they're more like 30 bowel movements a day. It just depends on how severe they've gotten. She was in like the 15 to 20 realm. So you really don't have much of a life when you're passing stool every hour of the day. She was not doing well. She had successfully completed four full rounds of vancomycin. Two were 10 day courses, standard 10 day courses. Two were month long pulse tapers. She came to me at the very end of her second. Month long pulse taper. Her anxiety was worsening. Her depression was worsening. This woman had been institutionalized for major depressive disorder three times previously in her life, suicidal ideation. She'd had suicidal attempt. It was not a great place for her to be. And she told me, in my visit with her, she was like, I just feel like I'm living in this like dark cloud of depression. And she's like, I know I'm here to talk about my seat up, but like I'm scared because I've been there before, like I've been in the darkness. I don't want to go back there, but every time I take it around in antibiotics, it gets worse. And so we talked about adding in some biofilm disruptors, right? Because all of our microbes love to create protective barriers around themselves. And I had her kind of clean up the rest of her vancomycin taper with some biofilm disruptors, and then add in a little bit of saccharomyces boulardii, one of my favorites, to bring into FMT cases I used a lot. You'll see it over and over in my case presentations, and technically put on this slide, but it was real. And what happened, and what we did was we doster. So I got gave her a 30 cap dose of fecal transplant, and she did 10 caps a day for three days in a row on an empty stomach. So I usually have them do some broth fasting prior get ready for fmt. And the coolest part was, I usually call my patients the day after they've swallowed a handful of poop pills or capsules, and I asked her how she was feeling, and she was like, I don't want to talk about my poop. Is this what it feels like to be happy? And it was so profound for me, because I really was calling to check in on her stool. Like, I wanted to know, Are you pooping solid? Like, how are things going? Usually, with fecal transplant, within like, 24 hours, I'm gonna see a shift in that person's picture. And so that's what I expect. And if it hasn't happened, then I think about dosing a little bit higher and shifting my plan kind of on the fly, but this was a little bit more of an unexpected result. And it goes back to that gut brain access like it was so cool for me to have this conversation with this woman who had struggled with depression her whole life, seven decades of her life, she had struggled with depression, and this was the first time that she was like, I've like. She was like, I'm so happy. She's like, I just want to, like, put each shit on the back of my shirt and wear it to Starbucks and tell everybody to eat shit. And I was like, she was just awesome. Like, she was so incredibly cool. And it was so fun to help her in that time.

Speaker 2  32:23
So what exactly is FMT when I tell people to eat shit and have these wonderful, cool success stories, what do I really mean by that? Fecal transplant has been studied for the last I'd say 25 years early, 2000s was when they really started diving into the research around fecal transplant. However, it has been around way longer than that. Its history starts in fourth century China. They used to use it for things like gastritis, except now we've got cool clinical trials that are using it for all kinds of different neuro diseases, different immune diseases. There are some really interesting trials on fecal transplant and cancer, a ton of stuff in the gastro world. I mean, it's directly related, like we're swallowing pills and we're inserting through the tush to deliver stool to the colons of these sick recipients, which is kind of crazy. So overall, fecal transplant is the transfer of stool from a healthy donor to the colon of a sick recipient, which is exactly what it sounds like when people are like, what do you do? And I'm like, I work in fecal transplant. They're like, you do what? And I'm like, it's exactly what it sounds like. I take stool from a healthy donor, I process it into a capsule, or like, I like to call them capsules, and I give them to a sick recipient, and I can help make pretty happy humans, which is pretty cool. I prefer frozen oral capsules if you're doing this in a hospital setting. Generally, it's done through a colonoscopy. However, NG tube can often be employed too, and then most people who are trying to do DIY FMT at home are using enema delivery. There's a lot of research out there, like comparing capsules to enemas to colonoscopy, the gold standard with fecal transplant is really considered to be colonoscopy. What was really cool is this study that was conducted by cow in 2017 actually compared colonoscopy to the frozen oil capsules, and what they saw was that both of them were 96.2% effective, if I don't have to put a patient through prep and a procedure that has a potential for bowel perforation. I'm super interested in Frozen oral capsules. The only thing that would make a person not eligible for this therapy is somebody who can't swallow a capsule. So I definitely think it's it's a preferred route, and it's really fun, because then you can tell people that they can jokingly go around and tell their friends like, Eat shit, you know. Or you can tell spouses of the person who's taking the therapy that, and it just kind of makes it fun. You can joke about it. People get jovial. I like that when you have to go under and do a procedure. It's a little bit less exciting. How does this work? How is it that we can take stool from a healthy human, put it into the digestive tract of somebody who is considered sick and make them feel better? Well, we don't really know how it works. There is a lot of thought and theory that has gone into how this mechanism may or may not play out. I generally think of it as being the first one here is that it's microbiome, oh, I didn't mean to click that. I'm sorry. Microbiome modulation. So I think of it as, like, direct competition. We're bringing in a brand new ecosystem. It's coming in. Here's the recipients microbiota, these little green guys. We've got the donor microbiota. They're coming in, they're basically taking over, like setting up shop. This is our house. We're moving in. You guys haven't done your job. We need somebody else on site, right? So I kind of think of it more in this realm. But what else is really interesting, especially in the world of C diff, is we're dealing with quorum sensing type microbes, and so these are microbes that once we've lost enough of the other community members, they start signaling to each other, right? They send out these small, little signaling molecules to basically be like, Hey, we can do this. Like, we can take over this environment. Now and then they all start producing their toxins, because it's a way for them to be able to basically take over the environment. Then we'll get back to the quorum sensing aspect. But I do think what's nice is that when we get this donor microbiota in, it reduces the ability for these guys to talk to each other, because again, we've got that overcrowding aspect of all of these new bugs coming in, and when the new bugs Enter, it reduces the quorum sensing microbes ability to communicate, because now there's other microbes in the environment, we're going to shut that down, which is kind of cool. This is an interesting aspect when we think about bile acid metabolism, bile acids are just crazy cool across the board, and the microbes conjugate them and they make them more usable inside of our body. It's still kind of a shaky theory, but also something that could very well be playing a role. We know that some bile acids actually have a direct impact on reducing susceptibility to C dip, which is awesome. And then this host immunity modulation, which I think across the board, the microbiome is doing this. The microbiome is what educates our immune system. It's what tells our immune system how to work. And so what's cool about the microbiome is that if we can add bugs in who are already telling somebody else's system to be healthy and to be anti inflamed, and all of those wonderful things that we want from a healthy donor, we can potentially impact and have that same effect on somebody who's not getting that signal from their digestive tract, which makes people transplant very appealing for things like IBD, but unfortunately, it's not legal for that, and we'll dive in there soon. So healthy donors, how the hell do you define health in this country? Like I think that it's become pretty clear that we live in a toxic sludge. And as much as I love to be optimistic and I will forever fight for us to be reducing chemical exposures as much as we can, it's not the reality we live in at this moment in time. And so when I'm looking for donors, my Screening Questionnaire is about six pages long. I've got a seven day diet diary. I've got a seven day stool tracker. I want to know that they're pooping. Bristol fours on a day to day basis. I want regularity. I want them to be eating well. I want them to be choosing good food. So Whole Foods, bio dynamic, organic as much as possible. They've got to be vaginally birds and they've got to be breastfed. Those are big disqualifiers in my bank, if you're a C section baby like Do you have the potential to be healthy in this world? You bet you do. Are you the healthiest microbiome that I could use to put into somebody else's intestines? Absolutely not. And it doesn't mean that we can't help you or create a healthier environment for you, not by any means. But when I'm screening, I am literally looking for the cream of the crop. I want people who sleep well. I want people who have normal body habitus. I want them to be healthy, happy humans, right? Because we talked about, just in that first case, that wonderful change of mood for that woman who suffered from depression. I also want people who don't have any diseases, like no history of disease. I also want, at, if possible, no antibiotic use. That is really hard to find here in the United States. It's possible, but it's hard to find, and no medications. And I think what's really interesting about the no medications talk is, you know, this is a place where please don't shoot me for bringing it up, but it got brought up to me at in at the maps conference that I was at two years ago, and I was talking about fecal transplant and having a conversation with one of the providers there, and telling him about my screening metrics. And he was like, you know, was all around the introduction of the mRNA technology. And he asked me, he's like, are your donors vaccinated? And I was like, well, and at that time, I was screening out for mRNA technology too new, don't know the impacts on the microbiome. Was not willing to do that with my donors. And he's like, I'm not just talking about mRNA, I'm talking about all the vaccines, like childhood and on, and I was like, wow. Like, I had a moment as an ND right, like, where I was like, you know, you're not wrong. Like, I really believe we can have healthy kids in this world without intervention. And it was really interesting, because I've got a lot of nd colleagues who've got kiddos who've been raised without vaccines, no antibiotics. Like, I'm very lucky to be part of the community I'm part of. So I can always call a friend and be like, Hey, your 18 year old daughter. Does she want to poop for me? Because she was vaginally bird with right? She wasn't breast or she was breast breasted. Great, you know? So we have those conversations, which is awesome, but it was a conversation that I do think is worth having. And there's a provider out of UCSF, or she's out of the San Francisco Bay Area. Her name is Dr Sabine, has on I don't know if you guys know her or not, but I listened to her at a conference a couple of years ago as well, and she was talking about how, because she does fecal transplant, and she's got her own genomics lab where she's doing sequencing of the stool and, like, able to really dive into stool,

Speaker 2  41:27
like transcriptomics and all kinds of cool stuff like that. And basically, she said in her lecture, I don't know if we actually have healthy stool here in the United States, like that was one of the statements she made, and that's how difficult it is to find healthy stool. So just wanted to throw that out there, because a lot of people are like, Well, I'm just going to do DIY FMT, and I'm like, ask my buddy over here to poop for me. And it's like, so it's so much more than that. And I do think that that's above all else. Please take that away from this talk. Like the donor is probably the most important part of what I do, and so I really do like to focus on this slide and stay in here, because the questionnaire helps me understand who they are, what they're doing. I bring them in for an interview, I do a physical exam on them. All of that springs out that I'm running serum I'm running stool testing, and then I've also added in whole genome sequencing to get a better understanding of their diversity scores. So very, very, very, very, very important, very important. And then here's some evidence to really kind of drive some of those key facts home. One being is that this study that was conducted back in 2021 really looked at the number of antibiotic classes people were taking, and if you had had four or five different antibiotic classes. So if you'd had four or five antibiotics in your lifetime, your incidence of type two diabetes significantly increases just looking at antibiotic exposure, like when we start thinking about how many people in this world struggle with metabolic syndrome, obesity, diabetes, and then we start thinking about the number of antibiotics that go into circulation, again, not just the ones that we're taking, they're The ones found in foods, right? If you go eat at a restaurant, you're likely getting a small dose of antibiotics. I actually had a patient who received a fecal transplant. Was so excited, felt so good, went right to McDonald's, ate a McDonald's Big Mac, and literally recurred on me. I was so pissed, like, and I the hard part was, I was very young in practice, and so when that happened, and he called me, and he was like, my diary is back. And I was like, what? Because, like, my FMT doesn't fail, right? So I was just like, What do you mean? You recurred? And then I had to really dive in. Like, what did you do? How did things like, what have you been up to? And it really came down to, he went and just like, totally now down on preservative, rich, antibiotic, rich foods. And it was enough. He was on day one of FMT like, he felt so good immediately, he went right to McDonald's, and that now becomes part of my park. You like, I tell people, please do not go eat fast food, preferably ever again, but definitely not within the first month of therapy, because we need to give that microbiome, that new ecosystem, time to adjust to the new world that's entered vaginal birth. I'm sure you guys already know this, but I just think it's these are numbers that are super, super important to key in on vaginal birth versus cesarean delivery is so crazy to me. Vaginal birth, basically babies get a mouth full of mom stool and in that it seeds the microbiome. A lot of people think that the uterus is a sterile environment, and these babies are raised in a sterile environment. I really don't think that's true, like on any level, but I do think that that initial dose of mom stool, when the baby exits the birth canal, is so incredibly important in setting that baby up for a successful, healthy immune world moving forward. And we see that in the literature, babies who are born C section have significantly higher incidences things like asthma and allergies. I think the big one here is celiac disease. I deal a lot with celiac disease. I work a lot with celiac patients, all of these, GIS, gastroenteritis and asthma. A lot of these are directly impacted from a baby not getting that initial seating event from Mom's stool, there is actually a really cool researcher. Her name is Dr Maria Dominguez baylo. She's incredible. And she has done some clinical studies where she has compared moms who have had C section babies, and then are those babies are vaginally seated, right? So some of the hospitals will swab the vaginal canal and then deliver that fluid to the mouth of the infant to basically help them be seated by mom's vaginal fluids. Great, but then she's also looked at not only vaginal seating, but also taking stool from the mom and giving that to the baby. So basically delivering a fecal transplant at birth for these C section babies from moms. And what is so cool is when that happens, those babies who received the fecal transplant, not the ones who received the vaginal swab, but the ones who get the anal swab, the rectal swab, they get a little bit of mom's stool, those ones become more like vaginally birth babies than the ones who even get vaginal seating. So cool, like, the power of poop is so insane. I love it so much. I think it's like one of the coolest things on the planet. And I think it should honestly become standard of care if we want to start reducing disease burden in this country. There's another study that I didn't put in here, and I'm so sorry. I just like, start talking, and I actually should have a timer near me so I can see how much I'm talking. I'm good. I'm doing all right, good. Okay, thanks. Yeah, I was just like, I don't have a clock around me, so I should probably like, make sure I'm not talking too much. But like, I get so excited about this because there's another study

Speaker 2  47:25
that was conducted where they basically took the C section, C section babies and they delivered, like, within a week of them being born, they delivered little aliquot slurries of stool from other younger infants, not younger in this is more like eight or nine year old children. And those babies have the same outcomes, similar to a vaginally birth baby, which is so incredibly like to me. I just think in my brain, like in my like heart of hearts, if I could change the medical system in any way, I would have moms who are in their third trimester of pregnancy, hopefully before receiving an antibiotic during pregnancy. If we can avoid antibiotics during pregnancy, please, let's try and do that. But what's really interesting is that if we could, if we could collect mom's school before she goes in to the birthing process, because we don't always know what's going to happen. We do know that a lot of times, if there are complications, they'll go right in for an emergency C section. But if we could collect mom stool, that that mouthful of delicious yumminess that this baby would have gotten if they'd been badly birthed, and we have those slurries available just in case, because if that mom goes into a C section that's often IV antibiotics, that's often a lot of different medical interventions, different drugs, different pain killers that are being just pumped into mom's system, right? But on the other side of that, we start giving that infant little aliquots of mom stool that was collected before she gave birth. I think we would see so many cooler outcomes in terms of long term health care with these kiddos. So So Fox moment. I just think it's really cool. I hope you guys do too. If there's questions about it, I can't wait, let's have a conversation and then nutrition, right? I think that what's really interesting is when I am able to I love talking to donors parents and getting an idea of what was your pregnancy like, what was delivery like? Were you able to eat? Well, like some some moms go through, like, hyperemesis, where they are vomiting all the time, they have a really difficult time even getting the foods and that they wanted to eat. I think that what's really interesting about this particular study is that they talk about the importance of nourishment and a healthy, varied diet, and how important that is for creating a nice, healthy epithelial layer inside of the intestines of these infants. And this is the first 1000 days, right? So it's basically preconception to pregnancy to having a baby to two years old with the infant, and how important all of those years are in terms of the health and development of this child. And so if I can talk to donors parents about, like, What were their first years? Like, you know was it was if they were sickly kids, I still think. But if they're like, nice, healthy, happy kids, maybe they have an Eara cure there, and, like, Mom treats them with herbs or breast milk. You know, breast milk, like Nature's Miracle, like you can squirt it on everything, and it literally does all the stuff that you need to help heal most infections. Like, I just think it's really cool. So the importance of the first 1000 days, I highly recommend reading that study, if you guys are working at all with pediatrics. But it brings me to another case where I had a patient who was pregnant, and she actually she was in her 20/22 week. Cool. I'm so glad I wrote that down. Was like 22nd week of pregnancy. And what was really interesting about her so she had had recurrent C diff. She'd been dealing with it for about seven months. She'd been through three rounds of Banco, still testing positive for C diff, toxins, basically on antibiotics most of her pregnancy, which is tough, like she got C diff. She started treating. She got pregnant, she continued treating, and she was not dealing with it. She had previously dealt with IBS symptoms. She'd had microscopic colitis, food intolerance is a very common part of her picture, but she was my first patient that came to me pregnant with with C diff, desiring FMT, and her biggest concern was potential miscarriage, and there's not good data in literature for me to say you're fine. I didn't know. I wasn't sure. So we had a big conversation about it, and we talked about all the pros and cons, because her not treating could put her in a significant her infant in a significant risk history. If that child was vaginally birth, that child could take a mouthful of C diff, toxin laden stool, and having an infant's biome start out at that much of a disparaged degree of microbiome degradation, depletion, quorum sensing, infectious agent, thinking about all of the stuff we just looked at, and how important it is to have good nourishment for the first two years of life in order to sustain a healthy, happy biome throughout the rest of your years. We talked a lot, and she was like, I'm in. Let's do it. Let's just like, let's see what happens. And so, because she had recurred multiple times and was having such a difficult time, I wanted to make sure she was going to be clear of her C diff. I'm finding in my private practice that people are becoming more or C Diff in general is becoming more virulent, becoming more resistant to treatments and therapies. And so I am finding that if somebody has recurred more than three times, I I almost require 230, Cap doses of fmt. If it's our first recurs, I might go with one, but it's coming to a point where the more the merrier in terms of getting as many microbes in as we can. So we treated her with two, two doses of fecal transplant. Because she was pregnant, I didn't really add a ton of other things into her treatment plan. I did do some s bolardi And I did do some l glutamine just to help support the lining of the intestines. And what was really interesting is she two weeks after, after treatment with me testing negative for C Diff toxin, she was still experiencing diarrhea, which does happen post infectious IBS is very real. I work a lot with that on the other side of fecal transplant. I do a lot of education around that. For patients who are seeking fecal transplant, sometimes they can go right into a solid stool and they're like cured. They feel great. A lot of them will have on and off solid stools. And there's a lot of anxiety following C diff. A lot of people get really anxious. They can smell it. They think it's coming back. There's just a lot of fear that comes on after C Diff has been part of their picture. So just something that I'm often working around. But a month and a half after therapy, and mind you, this woman's been dealing with IBS and like inconsistent bowels for 10 plus years prior to getting fecal transplant, but she had her first solid stool one and a half months after therapy and before giving birth. She also carried that baby to 42 weeks. Had a very healthy baby boy. I got all the pictures sent to my inbox, which was awesome. This is clearly not that baby boy because patient privacy, but she was stoked. And he is a super happy, healthy four year old now. So very cool. One of my one of my favorite patient stories, and so it's so cool. I love it. It's the best. And we live in a world where your access to it is shitty. Unfortunately, in 2013 the FDA actually registered FMT as an investigational new drug or an IND, meaning that if you wanted to use it in practice for anything other than C Diff not responding to standard therapy, you needed to have a clinical trial in order to allow that to happen in 2016 they were having, they drafted some guidance that never actually got released in terms of becoming official documentation, but they did at one point discuss Having a requirement that donors must be really patient. There's issues with that. A lot of people don't have healthy relatives, so there was a lot of pushback. It never actually went through. And in 2022 was a really big time for the fecal transplant space, because that was when rebiota, the first drug derived fecal transplant option, was approved that November. Within three days of that drug approval, we have a pretty tight, small community of fecal transplant providers, so we're all sending out the FDA guidance, and they basically were like, no more stool banks, no more distribution. Prior to November of 2022, if any of you had had a patient with C Diff in your practice and you wanted to treat them, I would ship FMT to you. You would be able to deliver it to your patient in your office, and we would call it a day after November of 2022, that no longer could happen. So in order now to make fecal transplant, if you are somebody who wants to do it in your office, you have to be the one who identifies, screens, curates and delivers the FMT. There can be no middleman, no other person doing it. It has to be you, yourself, and you as the provider delivering fecal transplant. So my weekends are in my poop lab, and I spend a lot of time curating some delicious slurries for patients, which is, I love it. I think it's really cool, and I want to be able to keep it around. I touched a little bit on prepping for the biome, and we'll get a little bit more into that, but really understanding how C diff, how severe C Diff really is, people who have

Speaker 2  57:22
recurrent C Diff infection. Generally, they're coming people who are sorry, people who get C Diff are people who are coming off of an antibiotic. Usually, usually, I'm getting women who are C section, people who are after a car accident. I've had people get it after a cat scratch. I've had people get it after all kinds of random things. They show up to the hospital, they get an antibiotic. I honestly think it's transmitted to them in the hospital, because there's some really interesting data. It was a Medline study out of or Medscape study out of 2018 or 2019 where they look at, looked at industrial, laundered bed sheets in the hospital setting, and they basically found that once they've gone through the industrial laundering system, 60 to 80% of the spores still exist on those bed sheets for C diff. So it loves to stick around. And I just feel like the hospitals are petri dishes for C diff. And then recurrent C diff is that if you are somebody who had an infection, and then eight weeks later you have another infection. You're considered a recurrent C Diff person. It may be the same strain, like you could be somebody who got reinfected by the same strain, because maybe you didn't hear it out enough, or maybe not have a new strain. Generally, patients who are initially responding to an antibiotic therapy, they'll do fine for a period of time. They get a pneumonia, or they get some sort of an infection, they get an antibiotic, they recur. Any person who has had C diff is now at a higher risk of getting C Diff again. So each subsequent recurrence that a patient gets, they're at a higher and higher and higher risk of recurring again, which is one of the reasons that I think fecal transplant is so cool, because we don't actually see those numbers with fecal transplant, because, again, we've created a whole new biome. And what's really cool is oftentimes not always, but most of the time, when I'm retesting after fecal transplant, not only is a seed of toxin going away, but the PCR for C Diff also gets me, shows a negative result, meaning they're not even finding the genetics for that, for that species inside of the gut, which is pretty cool. And then quorum sensing. We've talked a little bit about quorum sensing. We're going to talk about biofilms, because they're really, really important. And we will get back to quorum thinking a little bit more. But bio films, we all know kind of they're like, I just recently got introduced to the whole Harry Potter series. I know I'm like, a decade behind. It's fine. I'm usually pretty much behind on everything, so I'm fine with it. But the invisibility cloak. I kind of think of the invisibility cloak being the bio, the bio film, right, where, like, all these microbes come together, they do everything they can to basically build a fortress to make themselves invisible to the the medications that are coming in to kill them. And so they've got all of these different, like, you know, polysaccharide layers and different metals that are incorporated in there. And I think what's really interesting is that if we can't break those down a lot of times, that's contributing to the recurrence aspect for these patients, because we think we've killed it with some Van Gogh. The second that Van Gogh is gone, those microbes are still talking to each other. They're still sending out their quorum sensing capabilities, and we just wiped out more of the population. So now they can continue to talk to each other. So I do think considering biofilm disruptors, if you have the time and you're working with somebody with C diff, getting a biofilm disruptor that has a quorum quenching property to it. So like EDA, EDTA as an ingredient in the biofilm disruptor can be a really, really nice addition to helping support somebody in their antibiotic therapy and then prepping them for something like fmt. If it moves to that in order to prep for FMT, I generally have my patients discontinue their antibiotics 24 hours before we do the fecal transplant. So I'm always doing people transplant in the morning because they've slept, and I want them to at least be 12 hours fasted. That's ideal the day before fmt. I want them to do more of a liquid based diet. I don't require any sort of, like, laxatives. I don't really require any sort of cleansing of the bowels, other than like gentle foods, which is generally liquid based, right? So anything that's been blended easier for it to just kind of pass through the digestive tract. That's what I'm looking for. I want water based foods. I want liquids. I want soups. Coffee is fine. Everyone asks about coffee. It's fine. Take drink it. I don't care. But day of fecal transplant, I want to only doing clear liquids before the FMT. So they wake up in the morning, water, wake up in the morning, and if they want some water, they can have some coconut water. They can do some they can do some teas. I'm fine with herbal tea. That's fine morning ups, I guess that's not clear liquids, but I'm okay with herbal teas. And then basically they've got a 60 minute period to swallow 10 to 30 capsules, depending on what our treatment plan has ended up being. And then they can reintroduce solid foods. I generally push for two hours after the FMT. If they get nauseous, I will let them eat before then, because the last thing I want is somebody vomiting up triple encapsulated capsules, not what I'm looking for at all. Again, for Day of I do have them avoid coffee because it can speed up transit time. I don't generally want them to have a sped up transit time. I will talk to them about decaf coffee day before, but generally day of, we don't do coffee, we don't do spicy foods, we don't do anything that's going to make them want to have more bowel movements. Sometimes I also add in ammonium just to help slow transit so and everything else, I have them wait for medications for at least two hours after FMT, unless it's thyroid case three, we're just like diving into the shit head first. Um. So this woman was a female in her late 50s. She had recurrent C Diff infection. She was on hospice. She had recurred so many freaking times she went through two rounds of rounds of Flagyl. I do not recommend Flagyl on any level. Flagel has one of the highest recurrence rates associated with it. So if you do see C Diff coming into your clinic, please just don't stay away from Flagyl. Metronisol, please don't 1.5 or sorry, one and a half rounds deficit that being because she did okay with the first round, second round she did not tolerate so she had been through basically three rounds of those therapies and then three more rounds of vancomycin. Meanwhile, in the background, she was diagnosed with primary immune deficiency. She had had COVID. She came out of COVID with restrictive lung disease, so she had no breath sounds in her middle or lower lobes. She had Babesiosis. She was struggling with recurrent UTIs. She was on hospice. They basically told her, like, you're you're dying, right? Like, sign your tea, sign like all your paperwork, cross your t's, dot your i's, you're not going to get out of this care. And so she had had 120 days of non stop diarrhea before her clinic had contacted us, and this was prior to 2022 so this was not my patient. It was a doctor that we had coordinated delivery of people transplant with to his clinic. And what was interesting is she'd also had 16 pounds of weight loss, so we got all of her records after, which was really fun. We had her treated. So we advised the doc on the case. We talked about doing 30 capsules in a divided dose. This was again, kind of earlier in the C Diff world. She couldn't afford more than one dose. So what we decided to do was break it up into three days so that we could have more frequency. Sometimes that's what it takes with FMT two is to have more of a frequent, consistent dosing, rather than one big bolus dose. I like the big bolus dose. If my patients can afford to get two doses, I like them to do a 3010, 1010, that's like such a sure win result for me. But sometimes people can't afford that, and she was on hospice. Her family wanted her to have death with dignity. It was a really important it was really important for them, and so we did what we could to kind of work around and dose in a way that would help support that. The coolest result with this woman, she did 10 capsules. After her first day of FMT, 10 capsules, just 10 capsules, she coughed up a mucus plug that she described me the size of a softball. That's freaking huge, right? Like insane now, all of a sudden, her middle and lower lobes had full breath sounds. She had no more drops in her Oh, two sat since she copped up the mucus, she had no more drops in her blood pressure. She was still taking supplemental oxygen, but her energy was like climbing through the roof, and she made a statement to us, because we actually checked in with her after the fact, because it was such a like we were so blown away with it.

Speaker 2  1:06:45
And she said, I don't, I don't feel like I'm dying anymore. And truth of the matter was, she wasn't. She got discharged from hospice care, and she is now still living a very happy, healthy life. That was about four years ago at this moment in time. So one of my favorite cases for FMT for sure, and like, it had that impact on her lung tissue, which just makes me, like, so many questions, right? Like, what in the world is happening between the gut and the lungs? Like, how are these two systems related to one another? The gut is the center of everything, and that's one of the things that I've come to find and learn about microbiome health with FMT is like, there's nothing that's not related to the gut. And so the coolest thing is, like, I can use something like FMT, and I can really shift somebody's internal environment basically overnight, and I can see some insane shifts on the next day. And it's like, Can I explain how that happened? No, I can't tell you how or why. She copped up that mucus plug after 10 capsules of FMT, but she was clear of her C Diff after getting the FMT, and then she was discharged from hospice. Like, you gotta be freaking kidding me Shut the front door. So cool. Um, so I love that support after fmt. There's lots of things that can be done. I get this question all the time, like, what do I do? Again? Lots of anxious patients after FMT, I just want them to feed their new biome. They've got new bugs. They've got new critters in there. Like, the most important thing for them to do is look at fiber, rich foods, sauerkraut, Kim cheese, fermented options. Go through some research on that no to fast food. You guys already know why it's ridiculous. We should all say no to fast food. And how to protect from C Diff recurrence. One of the most important things that they do to protect from C Diff recurrence is to take an fmt. But on top of that, Saccharomyces boulardii, incredible option. I also don't mind a consortium probiotic. I think probiotics can be really helpful. My big beef with probiotics is when people stay on the exact same probiotic over and over and over and over again for months and months and months on end. I don't think that's how probiotics are meant to be administered. I really do think it's about mixing them up. So if you find like a brand that you like, or different ones that you're interested in. Maybe there's three or four that you can kind of rotate through. I like the idea of doing like, take one bottle, finish that awesome. Let's move you to this bottle. Have you do it for a month? Awesome. Saccharomyces boulardii is a little bit of a different beast, because it's actually a yeast, and it's got insane data for helping. Number one, it can help actually people get over their seat of without FMT, which is awesome. But two, in terms of helping prevent recurrence, I just think it's really, really important to have that microbe, so do it, and then intestinal lining repair like these are kind of some of the basics, A, C, E, I love vitamins, A, C and E. I love zinc. I love copper, like Selenium. I like post biotics. I think all of them are great. You can get postbiotics from your fermented food, believe it or not, and then lifestyle like you've gotta sleep. Sleep is where we heal. If you are not sleeping, that is the first thing I'm gonna work with patients to make sure that they're doing, because I can't get anywhere with somebody who's like, yeah, sorry, my life is stressful. I don't sleep. I get five hours, if I'm lucky, like, yeah, no wonder your health is crap. Like, until you can prioritize yourself and get yourself sleeping better, I'm going to have a really hard time getting you to the place you want to be. And so it's really about helping empower patients, to get them excited about taking care of themselves. And the coolest part is I get a very non traditional patient coming to me. I guess I'm a naturopathic doctor. So the people who are seeking naturpathic doctors, of course, they're like, trying to do all that stuff, which is really cool. And I love that. But when I get like, the you know, person who lives out in the sticks and, like, they could give, you know, excuse the language, like two shits about taking care of themselves, or they're out on a tractor all day, or, you know, they're in the middle of pesticide Haven, like, it is so cool to get to start taking out some of those big influences in their world and see those shifts. Because then they're like, Oh man, this actually does make a difference. And you're like, Yeah, it's like, the coolest thing ever. Um, so I love it. This is a really cool study, I just think across the board. Um, they basically did a research trial where they were looking at diversity and looking at different microbial species and trying to see that in in a week if you eat less than 10 plant foods, versus somebody who eats more than 30 plant foods, how does that impact your microbiome? Turns out, the more vegetables or plant materials that you can get in in a week, the better our bugs like, the diversity they like, the different polyphenols they like, the colors they like, all the different fibers. So what I tell patients too, because, like, they'll be like, 30 different plants. You've got to be kidding me. And I'm like, tea counts. Tea counts. You get polyphenols from your herbal teas. Get really good at drinking herbal tea, and you can accomplish this in no time. Spices count. Like, get exciting in your kitchen. Like, maybe you try, like, a little bit of turmeric or saffron or something that's a little bit outside of your norm. Like, maybe you're going to do some clove or some mustard seed. All of that counts. So playing in the kitchen and getting a little bit more excited about different spices, great way to get to your 30 plants in a week. Huge fan, huge, huge, huge fans love that study so much. This was the fee five Fauci study. It's like, abbreviated to be that, but it's basically feed more fibrous food. The cool part about this study was that they actually were looking at, you know, people who eat a high fiber diet versus people who eat a high fermented food diet. Turns out fermented food is, like, the best thing that you can put into your digestive tract. It can significantly decrease inflammatory markers and it can increase your microbial diversity. So when people come to me and they're like, What can I do? What can I eat? And it's like, there are some people who can't afford all of the fancy supplements, or they can't afford to do to move out of the moldy environment, or to get out of this, you know, toxic sludge next to a highway where they're inhaling benzene all the time, like all the different factors, right? And I'm like, commit to fermented foods. Get, like, a really great fermented food. I mean, my local Costco, you can buy those big containers of, like, the wild ferment sauerkraut. It's got, like, garlic and cabbage in it, incredible. Take some of that have, like a fork full every day if you can tolerate it. If you can't, let's work to get you where you can tolerate some fermented foods. One of the best things that you can do for your microbiome, especially on a budget, and I'm all about microbiomes on a budget. This is just a nice study to show how Saccharomyces, Velarde, in a dose of 20 billion CF use a day in conjunction with antibiotic therapy, actually helped reduce the incidence of hospital acquired C Diff infection, which is pretty cool. I'm a big fan of SAC guys. Like, if you're not using sac in practice, it's also incredible for people who have diarrhea, just kind of across the board. So I'm a I just, I love sack. Like, if I could pick a favorite bug, I don't know that I could. I don't, but I do use it a lot. We'll put it that way. I can't pick a favorite though, because I do think all of them are very important, and I have a really hard time talking about like the good versus the bad, because I think we have a lot of good when they're working together as a community. So again, this is a really interesting these are just some references to look at as to why vitamins, AC, zinc, copper, selenium and postbiotics are really helpful at feeding the epithelial tissue. Tissue. One thing that I would like to point out about vitamin A, just in general, that I don't think people realize, especially when we're working with patients in the gut realm, and we're trying to rebuild gut tissue. I work a lot with IBD patients, just kind of across the board and vitamin A. What's really interesting about vitamin A is it can actually up regulate the fox p3 receptor, which is the one that is talking to T regulatory cells. So vitamin A actually helps our T regulatory cells have a binding location to go to, which I actually really appreciate. So I think vitamin A is like, such an underrated compound. Yes, be careful with it in pregnancy. But if you can get vitamin A, and I think it's a very important compound that's kind of undervalued, and postbiotics, like, I'm sure you guys have heard a ton about postbiotics, they are kind of like the new hype in the microbiome space. If you're eating 30 different plant foods in a week, you are up in your postbiotics. Because postbiotics are essentially the poop of the microbes in your gut. So they take all of the fibrous materials, all the polyphenols that we're sending down the tube, and they gobble those up, and they poop out postbiotics for us. So short chain fatty acids, bactericins, bacteria, since are the freaking coolest thing ever. Like again, this is where I kind of come back to that concept of, do we have infectious agents, or is it really we have an imbalanced microbiome that's no longer making the appropriate antimicrobial compounds, which are what the bactericidins are to keep those, you know, opportunists, or just kind of like the hooligans in the environment, right? Like they want to come in and they want to do their thing, fine, but the bacteria sins if they're being produced, it keeps them in check. It's kind of like having, like, a little community force. It's like, Hey, man, you can't do that.

Speaker 2  1:16:38
Microbes also make vitamins. I think we're all pretty aware of that, but I think it's a pretty cool thing. B vitamins, huge source comes from the microbiome. Also k2 right? We think about vitamin d3 and the importance of k2 in terms of getting calcium into the bones our microbes make that they love, that they also make a bunch of different neurotransmitters and neurotransmitter derivatives. So a bunch of tryptophan derivatives, they can help with dopamine, they can help with all kinds of different wonderful signals to our brain. And then the Exo polysaccharides. What's really interesting about them is that the different genus of microbes, like you know, whether we're talking about lactobacillus or Bifidobacterium, they're starting to find that some of the different EPS molecules that are coming from those different genus, some of them are immune modulating, some of them are anti inflammatory. Some are actually like shutting off tumor oncogenesis genes, which is pretty cool. So again, microbiome plays a huge role. We make a lot of these postbiotics, but you can also take postbiotics. We can talk about that too. But what I think is really, really cool is that, remember that slide where we're talking about how unique you are and how it doesn't really matter. Just because you're unique doesn't mean you're useful. But what's really interesting is that this study that was conducted, there were over 1000 people in this research trial, and what they did is they swabbed like it was like 13 different locations on men and 15 different locations on women. Actually, I think it was 15 on men and then 18 on women, or three more locations on living because they did multiple vaginal cervix swabs. But what was really interesting is that they were able to take all of these different swabs with all these different regions. And basically, if you look at a the row a up here, and you look at all of the different phyla for the microbes, you see a lot of variation. There's a lot of different microbial names for different parts, and this down here kind of shows you. So this is the anterior near nerves of these over 1000 humans. This is the beautiful mucosa, tongue, stool, all kinds of fun things, right? So they do all of these measurements, and they're checking to see, like, who's there? Who are you? But what's interesting is, when they sequence further and they look at the metabolic pathways, and they're looking at the different pathways to create metabolites, it actually all kind of starts to become the same. So the name of the bug does not really matter. It's what the bugs are making that matters the most. And I think that that's that kind of like, helps everybody take a deep breath when we start analyzing, when we start getting into, like, stool testing and looking at stool cultures and seeing, like, what, who do you have in there? Oh no, this is a bad guy. It's like, is it a bad guy? Or are you actually able to create the metabolites you need? Because we have things like horizontal gene transfer, which is a way for two microbes to line up next to each other, you know, like my bentonite clay, I pre make it, because sometimes it's the pain in the ass to make, and then this is some chapstick, right? But let's say that these are two different microbial species. And what's really interesting is that if this one carries a gene that say it makes butyrate right, and the system, like the internal environment, is low on butyrate, these two can line up next to each other, and this butyrate producer here can pass that butyrate producing gene to this microbe over here. And this might be like a firmicute, but now it has the ability to make Butte. I think we forget that. I think we forget that the microbes talk to each other, and they're so much smarter than we are, and we're doing everything we can to figure them out, but like, they're a million years ahead of us. And I think that's one of the coolest things the microbiome has taught me, too, is like we know a lot, and we know so very little, which I really I find it to be very humbling. This is a research trial that was done on postbiotics. So it was a postbiotic preparation that was made from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. And what's really cool is, again, if we are just taking these small molecules, these byproducts of this fungus, eating from like a brewery, like a slurry, right? They're eating from a broth, and essentially pooping out their postbiotics. We actually saw improvements in antioxidant capacity and increases in tea and natural killer cell not only production, but also getting them to the tissues that we need them at. So post medics are important, and they are so incredibly cool, and you can get them from a really healthy diet. I always tell my patients, supplements are to help supplement a healthy diet and a healthy lifestyle. Let's talk one more story, and then I think we're getting close to we're getting close to the end. I promise. I'm not going to talk your guys's ear off the whole evening, but this is okay, great. Oh, fantastic. I can't see any of your faces. So it's such an interesting thing to like, just talk to my PowerPoint slides, and know that there are people on the other side, you know, but I'm like, Alright, here we go. I love it when I can actually see you guys, but we'll get there. So this was another FMT case that I had, and this was a woman who had, she was in her mid 30s when she came to me, but when she was in her late 20s, she actually ended up having a full resection of her large intestine, so pan colectomy. She had rectal bleeding in college, it just never stopped. Went to full minute Crohn's. That was the answer to her issue. In 2013 she was still having issues. She would struggle with pouchitis. She started Humira, she went into remission for a while, but every once in a while, that patchiness would come back, and she was on long term Cipro. She had flagel treatment, which, again, I think I talked about how much I dislike flagel. I'm going to say it again here. I have some serious qualms with that antibiotic. Please don't prescribe it. But she was taking antibiotics, basically to try and manage her potchitis lead to C diff. She got diagnosed in 2014 was recurring. In 2015 wasn't responding, had two rounds of ANCO. And what's really interesting is she actually went to open biome when open biome was still around. Open biome was a big stool bank on the East Coast. They were kind of like the pure bears of getting re biota up and running and making their drugs, and they're a big part of helping assist in that research. And once the drug came out, open biomes kind of, kind of like petered away a little bit, um, but she actually was able to take FMT capsules even with Pan collect me. So she was an interesting case, because to do FMT capsules, generally, FMT capsules are triple encapsulated. One of the reasons for that is that two layers of gel cap has been shown to sustain 122 minutes in an acid bath of hydrochloric acid. We know it's going to survive the stomach. That last layer is generally going to be enough to get it mostly through the small intestine, and likely to deliver at the end of the small intestine, beginning of the large intestine. Because she didn't really have a beginning of a large intestine for us to get to, we needed to make sure that that last capsule would open early enough. And so what was really interesting is, when she came to me, she and I think I'm kind of getting ahead of the story, but I just, I think this is interesting, so I'll get back to it. But basically, what was really interesting is, when she had first worked with open biome and she had done her FMT capsules, they actually had her take the capsules out of the freezer, let them thaw a little bit, which is definitely what I tell patients not to do. I'm like, you pull it out of the freezer, you put as many as your hand in your hand as you think you can swallow. You put the rest back in the freezer until you've swallowed those. And then you go back to the freezer, and you grab more if they want. They can get a block of dry ice and put the bottle on dry ice. I do recommend having a layer of like, paper bag between the dry ice and the bottle, because I haven't seen a bottle or two explode. You know, par for the course. Here is what I do. But what's really interesting is that she was actually advised to let them melt a little bit, and one of the reasons for that is that is that you've got all these live microbes inside of that initial layer of the capsule. And so when you've got all the live microbes there, they start to degrade that inner lining of that initial capsule. And so the thought process from open biome was, if you do that, then by the time those top two layers are degraded in the stomach, we can likely get it to deliver kind of midway through the small intestine. And it worked. She was she was able to take it. She was cedar free for eight years. And then 2320 23 team, and she ended up getting a Campylobacter infection. Had to have antibiotics. And then she found out that her Campylobacter was actually turning into a C Diff infection.

Speaker 2  1:26:08
She's got Crohn's. She's got PMDD endometriosis. She had taken baust So she had qualified to receive vows as a therapeutic and unfortunately, the vast capsules. So valist is the second fecal transplant drug. I know we talked a little bit about three. Biota being released in November of 22 vows was released in March of 23 and baust is an oral capsule, or delivery of basically a pharmaceutical grade fecal transplant. And it's a four, four capsules, so it's less of a burden for people to swallow. But she didn't do great with it. She actually ended up having people incontinence, and was still positive for C diff. So she started working with me. She found me. We started talking. I was like, I have not treated a J pouch with FMT before, but let's give it a shot. I really appreciated her story from open biome that helped me. We got creative with the treatment. We did kind of the same thing that they had suggested she do. We let the capsules melt just a little bit. She had done 230 capsule doses, mostly because her history a lot of times with IBD patients, especially FMT, can flare the IBD and so I have to be really careful with them, and I want to make sure that they have enough therapy at home, that if they are to flare, sometimes we need to push a little bit more FMT to get them through the flare. Sometimes we gotta put them on a steroid. But with her, I just wanted to make sure one that she had enough there, and she had multiple recurrences. And like I said, in the last few years, I have seen the virulence of C Diff just become a little bit more aggressive. So I become more aggressive in my treatment. Um, but because she had a J pouch and she has a quicker transit time, we also kind of veered from my standard dosing instructions. I did not have her do a liquid fast. I actually had her dose with a little bit of food. So in the morning, she would eat something like a small something like maybe potatoes, because she knew potatoes slowed transit for her. And so I'd have her, do you know, just like maybe a half of a potato, eat that then do five caps a day. So she did five caps a day for six days, and waited because she just wanted to hold on to that second dose in case something else happened. Because she was in and out of the hospital. She's constantly getting infections, constantly dealing with all kinds of different negative side effects associated with her pouch. And so she was like, I just want this here, just in case. Even with that single dose her C Diff toxin came back negative. Awesome. PCR, however, was still positive. So she is what I would call a carrier of C diff. It cleared her C Diff from being an infectious cause from her diarrhea. But it doesn't mean that she's somebody who's now at a lower risk for recurrence, and I think one of the reasons for that is because she didn't complete both of the bottles. That could be one reason. Second could be she's in, she's in the J pouch world, which is just a new it's a new ball game. And I just don't think there's an the same amount of exposure to the fecal transplant as somebody who has a full colon, so very interesting. But with her, we did biofilm work. We did es polarity again, es polarity all over the place. I love biofilm breakers. With EDTA, we did that supportive nutrients, omegas, really a lot of omega she had a lot of anxiety, and she was on a lot of anti psychotic medications, super low energy. We kind of worked through as much of that as we could, and I talked with her too again about this study that I had showed you guys earlier. Because I think people miss under they just don't totally understand the impact that anti psychotic agents can have on the microbiome. And for her, because she was recurring and she was struggling so much with these different infections in her microbiome, I see her as taking her antipsychotics. I see her antipsychotics as another delivery of it, of another form of an antibiotic. There's some really interesting petri dish studies on different classes of antidepressants, just kind of as a subclass of the antipsychotics. And what's really interesting is you can actually see antibiotic resistance develop on the petri dishes, which is so crazy, like it's so crazy to me, and so for her, we had to have that conversation. She's got PMDD, she has a lot of mental health disparity, and discussing different ways that we could approach that, you know, like, this is where I'm not really afraid to have a conversation with a patient about, like, Have you considered some of those more alternative realms of like, maybe exploring, like, a shamanically LED psychedelic session with somebody, and working with somebody in a way where you can really start to address like, what is it that's creating these deeper moods for you, because her medications that she was taking were not helping her picture? And what's really cool is like, fmt. We talked about this too, because she qualified for fmt. So she's like, well, what if I just use FMT for depression? And I was like, I mean, there's evidence, like, there is evidence in literature that FMT could be a potential curative for treating psychiatric illness, which is really cool to think about. It's just expensive and it's difficult, right? Like she had kind of a an entry ticket. She's still in and out of the hospital for all kinds of other stuff that she's dealing with. So I'm kind of like adjunct care. In her case, she calls me whenever something kind of Rares up in her gut. But other than that, she's she's just dealing with a lot of other things. And so I think that if we can get to a place where we can try FMT for her for depression, that could be really cool. But I think about FMT and the potential of FMT for depression just kind of across the board, because the other thing we all think about is when we're paying out our antidepressants, that's actually also inhibiting how our plants talk to each other. And any of you who are familiar with the herbalist, rest in peace. Stephen Harry Bucha, incredible, incredible herbalist. He actually wrote a book, and I can't remember if it was like the secret language of plants, or he's got, I've got, like, four of them on my shelf, and I'm like, I can't remember which one it was in, but he talks about how our plants use serotonin signaling to talk to one another, and it's actually one of the ways that they tell each other that danger is on the way or danger is coming, right? So if there's like a fungus coming through the forest, the plants will talk to each other through serotonin signaling. A lot of our antidepressants and anti psychotics work by altering serotonin signals in some way. So when we pee them out 98% unchanged, and they get into our waterways, our water systems, our rain, we're actually having a major impact on how power plants can communicate. So just something I think about a lot. It's my naturopathic side. But there's also some really interesting data on probiotics and depression. And I think what's really cool is in this particular study, there were 40 participants. They were either put into a probiotic group or a placebo group, and they were basically dosed with two grams of a probiotic for four weeks. And what was really cool is that the probiotic group actually showed significant reduced reactivity to a sad mood, which is kind of cool. So again, thinking about other ways we can support the microbiome. Not everybody can do a fecal transplant, but different ways that we can make that happen is very important. I really love mental health. It's a like small part of my practice as well. It's actually a large part of my practice, because it's every gi patient has some form of anxiety or depression that I'm working with as well. But getting out in nature is also really important. I think all of us need more time and access to nature. This was when I was living in the Pacific Northwest. This was one of my favorite sunrise hikes. If I couldn't sleep, I would pack up my dog, and we would drive about an hour and a half outside of Portland to this really cool location called coyote wall, and we would watch the sunrise together, and it was just like one of the coolest spots. So nature is really important, and our connection to nature is really important. And I think the microbiome helps remind us how important ecosystems are and how important diversity is, and how important it is for us to be connected to nature, because the more we're out in nature, the more bugs we're interacting with. So that's my talk, my friends. I hope it was entertaining. I hope you guys are all still here. Let's chat

Bill Clearfield  1:35:02
now. We did great. Wow, there's there's some questions in the chat, and there's someone lying. But first thing I want to ask you is, I mean, all the cases you brought were C difficile. I mean, is that the indication, or are there other indications

Speaker 2  1:35:17
at this moment in time, that is the legal indication in the United States, you cannot use fecal transplant for anything other than C Diff not responding to standard therapy unless you have an investigational new drug designation. Why is this a recorded portion or the non recorded portion? I

Unknown Speaker  1:35:40
can turn it off.

Speaker 2  1:35:43
Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think the short and sweet of it is money.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:49
Okay, that's fine, yeah, yeah. You know, I don't think there's one person on here that hasn't been burned, burned by something along those lines. So totally okay, yeah, all right. So in the in the chat, there's a few things here. It says wrt screening potential donors without shots. Most have had polio vaccine and with SV 40, whatever that is. So

Speaker 2  1:36:15
some have, I mean parents, parents of the donors, for sure, I have a donor right now, who is a 17 year old daughter of a naturopathic doctor. The only vaccine she received was 1d tap vaccine when she was two, zero antibiotics in her lifetime, she's just like, healthy, happy, living her best 18 year old life. So she's one of my best donors. And then I just screened in another younger donor. He is nine, and he is the son of a naturopathic doctor, zero antibiotics, zero vaccines, lives on a farm. Eats organic. Parents have like biodynamic farming practices. They eat a lot of their own homegrown food, like I really do do my best to find these people, if I can. And so, you know, the polio vaccine was, God, that one, that one was an earlier generation. I mean, I can see the scar on my mom's arm. She's 75 she still has, like, the polio, or maybe it was a small pox. Can't remember which one it was, but, um, but she's always told me stories about remembering lining up and getting the polio vaccine. But I definitely, I think that that one's out a little bit outside of the current generation. It doesn't mean it's not a pass me down from the parent to the kid to the next generation. Does that Helm? Does that answer that question?

Bill Clearfield  1:37:43
Yes, yeah. Next question, EMR, EMF, have any impact on the microbiome? Oh, I'm

Speaker 2  1:37:49
sure absolutely yes. I don't have any current data on that to speak to, but I wouldn't be surprised, yeah, for sure. I mean, I think about I've got some colleagues who are in practice, and actually went on a hike with a friend of mine, and I took my cell phone because, you know, I had, like, my stretchy pants on, and I, like, tucked my cell phone into the back part of my stretchy pants. And he was like, What are you doing? Get that cell phone off of your body, like, and then he was telling me about how his wife, because a lot of women will tuck their their cell phones into their their bras when they're walking or working out or doing things like that. A lot of women are developing different tumors and breast cancers in that region. I would not be surprised if it's contributing to some of the colorectal cancer we're seeing. A lot of people will tuck it into their back pockets. But I don't have, I don't have current or research, recent research that could help me.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:44
Okay, how do you optimize the constituents of an individualized microbiome?

Speaker 2  1:38:52
How do I optimize the constituents of an individualized microbiome, like the metabolites, that kind of, what that potentially, I'm

Bill Clearfield  1:39:00
just reading the question, if you're on,

Speaker 2  1:39:07
yeah. I mean, ultimately, I think at the end of the day, it comes down to diversifying the different types of foods that we're eating, right? So when I get patients who come into my office and they're on, on, like, a specific carbohydrate diet, or, like, God, the low FODMAP diet one of my least favorites. Yes, it can help with symptoms, not a great long term plan. And my biggest thing is trying to diversify their diet and get them back to eating food without discomfort and pain. So low and slow is my favorite approach. Like, if I'm if I've got people who are very restricted in their diet. I'm not introducing multiple new foods. I'm asking them, What food do you miss the most? And then they answer that question, they're going to try that food for one day that next week, see how it goes. If it goes well, we're going to call it a safe food. They're going to start to incorporate it the next week. What's the next food you miss the most? When we have people who are restricted, restricted to like, six or seven foods, sometimes the thing they miss most is green beans. Sometimes it's broccoli, sometimes it's a sweet potato. And so it's not like they're missing sourdough bread. Even though sourdough bread is delicious, it's they're missing real food. And so I really try to help alleviate some of the anxiety around it, and get them, you know, cooked foods. Then, you know, going from cooked, if you can start tolerate more cooked, maybe you can try a little bit more raw. And it's really a stair step to get them to eating more and and having their their mental health, be in alignment with with doing that as well. Because when people go into eating afraid, their bagel response is, this is not safe, and if it's not safe, then that communication to their gut is also telling them this food is not safe. And so having that conversation too, where it's like we really have to retrain the brain, to retrain the gut to be able to accept some of these foods so low and slow, but I'm a big fan of diversifying and getting in all the ferments.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:05
Okay, how would colonic therapy factor in the microbiome?

Speaker 2  1:41:12
It's a good question. I mean, there's a lot of people who are doing, you know, like colon cleanses, coffee enemas. I think that they're fine as long as they're not done in excess. There's a lot of people who get really excited. I had one patient, actually, who came to me wanting fmt. She did not qualify for FMT, but she had gotten really on to, like, the coffee and then with kick and was super excited about it. Was doing it daily for like, months, and then started feeling like full body inflammation, heat, like she just had, like this inflamed, hot rush through her body. We tried to work her up for a lime, we tried to work her up for mold. We tried to kind of figure out, like, What could these other things be? And I think she just depleted her biome, because it does wash out some of the biome. And I think if we do it too aggressively in too much there, there is always a too much, right? And I think with her, she kind of went rogue, tried to do enemas with her son stool. Didn't actually respond well to her son stool, which was something that was very her case was very interesting. She was a loss to follow up, so I didn't really get to see how that turned out, but I do think, because she was doing daily coffee enemas for months on end, she created a problem. So I do think that there's, there is such thing as too much, but I don't think that they're bad. You can do them here. There

Bill Clearfield  1:42:37
comment from Dr Mankins, your enthusiasm is contagious, and what a great presentation. So there you go. Pat on the back, just a just a comment, smallpox and polio. There were oral smallpox and polio vaccines. Doctor layson says, I am a general surgeon in the Philippines. I'm a post total collectiv anastomosis for massive LG, IB format diverticulosis. In 2018 she changed her diet to vegan. 90% can FMT help her?

Speaker 2  1:43:27
That's a good question. That is a really good question. That is a question where I would, I would want to know a little bit more about the case. This is where I think FMT is. I think it's the coolest, right? And I don't think it's the panacea everybody thinks it is. I think it has really cool potential, and I think that for a large percentage of people who are really struggling, it could be that thing that kind of pulls them out of some pretty intense negative outcomes associated with what they're dealing with. And I don't always know that it's the right option. I think that what's really interesting about, you know, I'd be curious about Ehlers, danlos, especially when I'm looking at diverticulitis, diverticulosis. Sorry, guys, you're getting me at the end of the day. I'm surprised I'm still talking, but we're doing this. We're making it through, you know, I'd be thinking about connective tissue laxity and things of that sort, and really trying to get a better understanding of, like, the full picture there, because I, I would be very curious about other symptoms that are coming along. It's, it's hard to say FMT will work for X specific condition. It really kind of depends on all of the other factors. So when I see my C Diff patients, I do a full intake like I want to know everything about their life. I want to know how they take care of themselves. I want to know what they're feeding themselves. I want to know what has led them to getting C diff. So, you know, there's a lot of other factors that come into play. Could it benefit possibly? I really think it has potential, but I also think that would be a much bigger, more, more, probably more private conversation, but potentially.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:13
Okay. Great. Is FMT available in Mexico?

Speaker 2  1:45:21
I believe so there is a colleague of mine. He's actually heading down to Panama. He has a clinic down in Panama. He is trying really hard to basically become the he told me this last week, he wants to become the open biome of Latin America. And so I do think that it's more easily accessible in Mexico. I don't know there's one provider, and I cannot, I can, like see his face, but I cannot remember his name, who is providing down in Mexico, and they don't have the same FDA regulations that we have here in the United States, by any means. So that's that is helpful. There is the Tay mount clinic, which is UK based. I They may have a location in the Caribbean. That's another place to definitely look at. What's interesting about Tay mount, though, and it's one thing that I'm kind of I've thought about a lot because I again, I think of fecal transplant like an organ transplant, right? So it's like we've taken a heart from somebody and put it into the chest of somebody else. And I tell my patients this, when they're going in for fecal transplant, like you're basically receiving an organ transplant at Tay mount, they'll take stool from 10 different donors and homogenize it and make that into a treatment plan. And so I think about the potential implications of that, like our ecosystems are our own complete ecosystems. I don't always know if mo like, if you, you know, if you mix the Sahara desert with the Arctic tundra with the deciduous forest of the Pacific Northwest. You know, you start adding all these different ecosystems together. I don't know if that's a benefit or if that's something that might create some other issues down the road. And so that's one of my big things about came out that I just I ponder, and now you can ponder them with me.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:22
Okay, Dr Nario, you have any online questions?

Speaker 4  1:47:26
Yes, so Piper, you really dumped it in my email. No pun intended, but we got a lot of questions for you. Well, this is for my personal I guess, benefit. You mentioned that it's out of pocket that patients pay for this, and you mentioned that it's only for C diff, but if it's for out of pocket, can you actually do this for I know FMT has been studied also in metabolic conditions and also other even cardiovascular problems, even as you mentioned, psychiatric issues as well. So if it's a cash based service, can you apply it in non C Diff conditions?

Speaker 2  1:48:10
I mean, that's really where it becomes like a matter of licensure. You know, it depends on what you can or and can't be covered for in terms of your license. I will say that there. I think that there is some really cool potential for that, but I think that that is a conversation that I would love to have outside of a recording. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:48:41
all right, yeah, for sure.

Speaker 2  1:48:45
For now, for sure, yeah, yeah, for sure. I mean, I think I agree with you wholeheartedly. We'll put it that way. And All right, let's talk offline. So

Speaker 4  1:48:53
it seems like you inspired other clinicians here how to be certified for fmt. How can you be handling all the good stuff that you're doing, and be trained for that

Speaker 2  1:49:04
totally. So I was trained by an FM team provider in Portland, Oregon, Dr Mark Davis and his counterpart, Dr Carmen Campbell. They were working together at the time, and I really learned, because I was student, and I was interested in them, in the microbiome, and so I started learning from them, and then started my own people transplant bank in 2017

Speaker 2  1:49:33
and so what was really interesting is I basically learned On site. There's really no there's no protocol for it. There's no, like, recommendations or labs for it. A lot of times it's kind of done behind the scenes. And that's one of the big issues that the FDA has with fecal transplant, is that there isn't a way to standardize it, like even with these drugs, right? One of the biggest issues it took them over 15 years to get the drugs approved, because they couldn't standardize the stool, they couldn't show the same replicable outcome or product at the end game of of making the FMT. And so there's complications there, but I think that ultimately it kind of comes down to, there's the I do a double centrifugation process where I create my FMT capsules. I basically have a blender. That's a glass mason jar. It's a metal blade. Everything's auto claimable. So I can create, I can create my slurry in the mason jar, and then I pour it off into clean, sterile centrifuge tubes. I do a spin cycle to pull out the fiber pellet. I pour off the supernatant into a fresh, clean, sterile centrifuge tube. I put that in for a second spin at a higher speed, longer time, and that creates my microbial pellet. I resuspend that in a cryo protectant, and then from there, I have a microbial pellet that gets pipetted into capsules. So it's a hands on process that I do inside my own small, little side lab.

Speaker 4  1:51:13
So when you say your lab, it's not your kitchen or your fridge, right? I

Unknown Speaker  1:51:17
hope, no, no, no,

Speaker 2  1:51:19
it's outside of food handling, and I have a separate sink that is not where I wash my dishes. Yes, so, but, you know, it's really funny. One of my colleagues who works in fecal transplant, he was like, but it's all good microbes. Like, does it really matter? And I'm like, I mean, probably not, but at the same time, I do try and keep it clean because

Speaker 4  1:51:40
no specific certification, no institution or school to be certified for that, right? That's not what you're saying, Yep. Okay, I think it's one from these are coming from your slides. I mean, why and not? And since I think that's the one for alpha diversity,

Speaker 2  1:52:00
I don't know it's a why not? It's just how it showed up in the study. But you're definitely welcome to go dive in and and read more. I don't know why not on NSAIDs, but, I mean, I think we all know opiates are definitely a contributor, just there's lots of different drugs. So, yeah, sorry,

Speaker 4  1:52:20
which I think is another slide question. Why thyroid meds as an exception? I think that's for your prep, or is that right?

Speaker 2  1:52:30
Yeah, because their thyroid meds are generally taken on a pretty consistent time clock people are in their you know, the thyroid is something that has its own little circadian rhythm, and so staying on top of the thyroid medication, I just don't want to disrupt that cycle. So usually I have people take that one specifically, but everything else, I kind of keep, keep the two hour, keep it away, two hours away from the FMT.

Speaker 4  1:52:55
Okay, you mentioned about you're not a big bene flagel. Then what do you prefer for C diff, like VANC?

Speaker 2  1:53:03
VANC, I definitely go to vancomycin first, and then, honestly, the regulations for the IDSA for C Diff treatment is failing two rounds of antibiotics before you qualify for fecal transplant. And I don't do that. If somebody fails one round, they go right to people transplant in my bank, because again, the more they recur, the more likely they are to recur. And I just don't want to play the game, so I do my best to get them out of recurrence as soon as I can

Speaker 4  1:53:33
okay for sack billardy. Can this be taken by healthy individuals, like your probiotics, or you prefer pathologies of this sex,

Speaker 2  1:53:45
totally fine for healthy individuals. If you're healthy, though, the thing that I think of with SAC is rotate it. Just rotate it. That's kind of my big message with all of the organisms, is that if you you know, take sack for a bottle's worth. Great. Take it. Finish that bottle, try something else, if you felt better on sac than the thing you tried the next time, go back to sac. But I just think that, I think that sometimes when we choose these like, you know, 357, 10 strain probiotics, they're great and they're super helpful. But I just don't think that. I don't think that we know more than our microbiome knows, and we're overloading the system with billions of CF use of a small number of species compared to how many live inside of the internal ecosystem. I just think that we need to give it some time to regulate outside of those influences. And so I do think that taking one, take a break, taking one, going to sauerkraut, going back to the one like, mix it up. Don't get so stuck on one probiotic.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:52
So you prefer single strands as ever. Saying,

Speaker 2  1:54:55
I love consortia. I love consortia. I just, um, I don't like to do the same thing over and over again. Does that make

Speaker 4  1:55:03
sense? And when you say yes, cycling sack Bullard, you like one month on and then one month off, yes, right? Yeah.

Speaker 2  1:55:10
Unless they're an active, like, an active infection, then I will do like two or three months on.

Speaker 4  1:55:16
Okay, you mentioned about probiotics. Do you what are your thoughts of spore versus non Spore?

Speaker 2  1:55:23
Sports, great. I like Spore, but I also like non Spore. I think there's benefits to both. I mean, the big thing about spore is that they're, you know, acid resistant, acid tolerant. They can survive all of the influence of the GI tract, which is great, but like the majority of probiotics that are being curated or curated without or with a delayed release capsule or an enteric coated capsule, so they're going to survive the acid of the stomach as well. And I think that, again, spores are awesome, but I would rotate, like, if you're going to do a spore, do a spore for a bottle's worth, and then rotate to a consortium probiotic. And then, you know, if you want to get really excited about a single species, like there is some pretty interesting research on single species, and I think lactobacillus rhamnosus GG is probably one of the most well studied strains. And it's cool. It's got a lot of information, but I think that what's fascinating to me is that a lot of people are getting really stuck on strains. And I, again, I go back to, like, thinking about horizontal gene transfer and the metabolites that these microbes are making. And, like, does that specific strain really have that much of an impact? And then when you start to blend and combine them, they all work a little bit differently once they're interacting with each other, again, because of horizontal gene transfer. So I just think that giving the environment different exposures to different microbes can be really beneficial. And in some of the consortia I would really love to start seeing, and it's something that I'm I'm trying to push for at SFI, is if we could start doing some metabolite testing to see, like, what are the small molecules that these consortia probiotics are making? Because maybe it's more the metabolites, and it is the microbe itself. And if we start diving into that information in that literature, maybe we can have a better idea of like, what is it that's happening? Like, and there are a lot of butyrate being produced by this particular blend. Is there a lot of acetate? Are there different tryptophan precursors? Are there, you know, different bile acids by or not bile acids because that would come from a human or a living organism, but like, different things that are being produced by the microbes, like, are are they the actual key components of what are making probiotics work? And if they are, it doesn't mean probiotics are bad. It just means that we're going to learn a little bit more about why this particular blend, or why this particular microbe is actually imparting the action we're seeing. So

Speaker 4  1:57:58
since you mentioned about testing, so part of your slides also is, you do an O and P, what about going into a deeper dive using functional stool testing? Is that also something that you've done, or you prefer, or O and p is definitely fine.

Speaker 2  1:58:15
Yeah. I mean, my like functional lab. I run. I run through vibrant health. So I run their gut pathogen, mostly because they've got six multi drug resistant organisms on their gut pathogen. And in 2019 there was a death, like a true death associated with people transplant, because there was an ESBL strain of E coli that was in a stool from a donor that was used in an IND immunocompromised trial of cancer patients. Two of the patients ended up going into sepsis. One ended up not being able to recover from sepsis, and they ended up finding out it was this multi drug resistant organism. And then the FDA came out with guidance for people doing FMT to start testing for multi drug resistant organisms so vibrant has esdl on their form. I also do MRSA through an anal swab through quest. I do VRE and cre I've got a few different genes that I'm looking for, but the functional testing I think that in terms of what I'm trying to do, like the functional testing, I more so, like the more researched based aspect of that. So, like, I like cosmos ID, because they've got a beta diversity, they've got Shannon diversity, I can go in and actually look at some of the diversity indices for the patient, I can get an alpha diversity which is awesome. And so I really like that, because that's really more information for me, and it's actually more research information. Because if you go look and see like, what is the best Alpha diversity score, good luck finding that like that doesn't exist in the literature right now, but I think it's a really interesting place to look and consider. I think that some of these bigger functional tests are really helpful when you're actually trying to help somebody get back to a state of health. But when I'm screening donors, these are people who don't have digestive discomforts or issues with their digestive tract, like they feel good. They're solid poopers. They've got good energy. Like, I'm not looking to to try and find too much. I'm mostly trying to screen out. Like, is there anything bad here that I need to be concerned about? And I mean, I've had some really good looking donors who come back. Like, I had one, one woman that I screened early on in my practice, and I had my when I had first started my school bank. She was awesome. I grew up on a farm, worked with horses, just like epic. She was just in great shape. Awesome biome, but tested positive for Yersinia Eliminator, right? So I'm mostly looking for, is there something here infectious that I'm going to spread to somebody, because that's really that's an important thing for me, HIV, syphilis, HePS, all of those. I want to look through all that for sure, but I'm not really looking at functional labs in that way. Okay,

Speaker 4  2:01:12
you mentioned about rounds of antibiotics. I mean, I think the question here is, how do you consider a detrimental brown because there are three day administration, five day administration, 710, days. What do you consider, or just even three days, not feasible?

Speaker 2  2:01:32
I mean, it's not that it's not feasible, right? Like i if i Are you talking about four donors or just in general health,

Speaker 4  2:01:41
I guess the question here probably would be for the donors. I mean, sure you brought up general health, like, I'm sure you deplete yourself pretty with three days, regardless. But maybe for this is more for your donors. Yeah,

Speaker 2  2:01:55
you know, this is such an interesting question, so I generally the general rule. So there's some decent literature out there that you can replenish what is lost within two months of taking like, like after you've finished your antibiotic, there's a two month period your microbiome can kind of look the same as what it looked prior to so if it's their first insult, I'm going to have them take a break for sure. So I have them do. I had actually had one donor who had ended up getting a UTI, ended up needing to take an antibiotic, took nitro for like seven days, and then we basically off boarded her for three months in that period, I also had extra fecal transplant from her, and may have used that to help restore her biome back to what it was, so that we can use her again as a donor. And that's something that I think about too, when you know, in my ideal world of like, how we could use this therapy, like I have thought many times about the like, just how cool it would be to be basically like a poop reservoir for people who like you don't know if you're going to need an antibiotic in the next year. You don't know if you're going to get sick. You don't need know if you're going to have to go in for surgery. If you go in for surgery, could we potentially harvest some of your stool and recover your biome on the other side, so you don't have to worry about that. You can just take what is you, and that's considered, you know, autologous, fmt. And there was a time in my previous my previous business partnership, where my previous business partner had gone to meeting and ended up finding herself sitting next to an FDA regulator and ask the FDA regulator, you know, like, for naturopathic doctors were licensed in our state, we're screening donors, like, could we possibly do, like, autologous fmt? And he's like, Absolutely not. Like, if the FDA caught you doing that, you would be asked to stop, right? Like, you would get that initial letter that says, Please stop what you're doing. And that's kind of the answer to the original question earlier too. Is Like, could you use this for all these other things? It's a cash based business. It's like, if the FDA doesn't find out, maybe, but you run that risk, because if they find out that letters coming to your door, and so it's everything that I speak to and talk about is definitely recurrency to not responding to standard therapy because of those risks, you know, right.

Speaker 4  2:04:27
So questions here about biofilm, I know you kind of started with EDTA, with IV. EDTA be also inclusive of that, or just oral. EDTA, I

Speaker 2  2:04:39
like oral just because IV somewhat bypasses than GI tract. And if I'm working with GI and gi based biofilms, I do want something more oral based. You know, it's kind of like IV Vanco versus oral van go like I'm going to use oral Vanco, especially when I'm talking with my C Diff patients. IV Vanco doesn't do anything for my C Diff patients. So I think oral would be my answer for sure.

Speaker 4  2:05:04
And other choices, I know there are, like, other biofilm disruptors, like dipolatic enzymes, or even, yeah, I've heard silver can also be one. But do you have other choices for your biofilm disruptors? Yeah?

Speaker 2  2:05:20
Yeah. I mean, I think that all of those, there are different products out there that have proteolytic enzymes with EDTA. There are, I mean, there's a bunch of different brands out there that have done a really good job of making different biofilm disruptor options. I would peruse them, check them out, see what they have to offer. But absolutely, I think proteolytic enzymes are great.

Speaker 4  2:05:47
And how would you know, or even, how long you're going to be treating your body of films, and how would you know that if they're still present and you're done with it, ready to move forward?

Speaker 2  2:06:00
Yeah, that's hard to know. That's a really good question. The answer is, we don't. Generally, when I'm doing biofilm breaking, like, I've got a patient right now who's prepping her biome for fmt. And what's really interesting is that she's not somebody who tolerates antibiotics very well. So we decided to do she had her brain at home. I'm always a fan of like, what do you have in your cupboard? Because I cannot tell you how many people come to me after having seen a lot of other docs who they have, just like all the things in their cupboards. I'm like, What can we use that you have? And so we put in some Berberine, and then I did a product that had proteolytic enzymes with EDTA as the biofilm disruptor. And basically I did kind of like a quick titration up. So I had her do one cap. She's a very sensitive woman. So like, one cap a day for three days, if she did that fine, two caps a day for three days. If she did that fine, three caps a day for three days. So, like, really, kind of like moving her up, and then once she could tolerate four caps a day. And generally, if she got to multiple it'd be like one in the morning, one at night. And then when she'd go to two, it'd be two in the morning, or, sorry, when she go to three, it was two in the morning, one at night. And then the windows four is two in the morning, two at night, that type of a thing. And as long as she was titrating up and not having significant adverse feelings in her body with that. Then we would continue moving forward until she finished the bottles, essentially, because I like to try and go through a bottle and then immediately after I hit it with fmt. So it's hard to know, like when it's appropriate. I just want to break it down enough so that the new biome has a chance to start competing with what was there you

Speaker 4  2:07:42
mentioned about supplements? What supplements should you not take with fmt?

Speaker 2  2:07:49
A lot. Yeah, I mean, and it's not like, you can't you absolutely can. It's just, I have a lot of patients who are like, Okay, I have, like, every single probiotic, and I have, you know, I've got my oregano oil, or I've got my, like, insert any SIBO formula on the planet. Like, they've got their candibacton, or they've got their Berberine, or they've got their um, iber gas or whatever. Like, they've got so many different compounds, and they're like, ready and rear Indigo. And usually I tell them, keep it simple. The things that are going to help restore the epithelial layer that's really important to me. Those are the things that I want. So again, those more simple product, A, C, E, love those zinc, copper, selenium. Love those things that are going to be cofactors to help support that repair process and supplements are supplemental to a good diet. And so once they've got their FMT on, I want them to start using food as medicine. I want them to start understanding what that concept means, and start diversifying their diet as much as possible in short spurts and increments, like a lot of these people will come to me not being able to eat double digits worth of food, like they're on 678, different foods, and that's what's their safe food. So I keep them on their safe foods while they're in the middle of dosing FMT, and then it's like, Okay, now let's stop being afraid of food, and we do this by slowly bringing in new food options, because that new biome is generally going to help their body be more receptive to bringing in more food options. And so I definitely think that there's, there's a huge benefit there, for sure, in kind of like mirroring that, course that way. And I also think that, you know, for probiotics especially, I will do sack polarity, like pretty much with FMT therapy alongside FMT therapy. But even then, like consortium probiotics, I hold off, I pump the brakes, I give them, like, at least two weeks, if not a month, without probiotic exposure, because they just got the most epic probiotic you could ever receive, which is a whole ecosystem of organisms. So to me, why would I be adding in more of like 12 strains when I can just let that new biome simmer and do my best to support it with food, fermented foods, if possible, soups. Brought teas. I get my patients into teas, especially some of the stress relieving tea like lavender, is incredible for C Diff patients because they are so anxious. And there's actually some really interesting research showing lavender being an amazing anxiolytic, right? And so if we can think about adding in some of these herbal allies and making them part of their day to day, like one of my patients was calling me almost daily for the two weeks, following her FMT, and I got her on lavender tea, and she was only called me once a week. That was a big change for her, and I was stoked about it. She was actually like, I love lavender tea. And I was like, That's amazing, because I do too, like you just sold it for me.

Speaker 4  2:11:07
Well, yeah, that. Well, that's amazing. Piper, you actually flushed everything down so we got all the email questions, and I think it's time for you to promote. Yep,

Unknown Speaker  2:11:17
awesome, cool. Thank

Bill Clearfield  2:11:19
you very earn your keep here tonight.

Speaker 2  2:11:23
Awesome. Well, it's been fun, guys. I really appreciate you having me. Thank you so much. If anyone has questions like, please send them my way. I know that I got kind of like, I just gotta get shady in this world sometimes with answering some of the questions. But I'm always happy to talk offline more about options and different thing. So please reach out. Don't be strangers. We'll talk soon. Yep,

Bill Clearfield  2:11:44
okay, thank you so much. Yeah, just a couple of quick things. The for the CME, credit. We have it here in the in the chat, E, D, s.com/em/ninety, 622, I'll have it on the next week's email. Also where to get it. It's $30 for two. Ama CME credits, category one. Dr zin posted her link on how to get to her to the homeopathic seminar on Friday and Saturday, and that's in the chat also, and I'll send out an email tomorrow on that. And lastly, those of some of you know that we've actually started a research group, and they meet on Saturdays, 12 noon, Eastern, 9am Pacific. And if you're interested in that, we'll get you hooked up with that. And everybody's welcome. There's about six or eight have been participating in that. Next week, we have Mito Q, is that correct?

Speaker 4  2:12:58
Doctor? Yes. Mito Q, that's our famous co Q, 10, yeah, and they're going to present to us,

Bill Clearfield  2:13:07
sibodian Mitchell, is that? That's who that is, Siobhan.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:11
Siobhan,

Bill Clearfield  2:13:13
you know? So that's, that's next week. Um, Doctor Piper, thank you so much. This was really fabulous. We will get you a copy of the video when it's ready and if you want it, and we'll send you the participant list. Also, anybody else have any comments or questions, complaints? If you have complaints, take it to Dr Nario, or better yet, take it to Dr Burgess

Speaker 4  2:13:46
Piper. I think you answered this. You recommend lapiramide, slow down gi peristalsis to control diarrhea. Absolutely, you mentioned that. Right, yeah,

Speaker 2  2:13:54
absolutely. I do that, especially for my, you know, 15 plus errs like, if I've got people who have significant frequency I am slowing, I am slowing the GI because I need that FMT to stay in the GI tract.

Speaker 4  2:14:09
Do you have products that you promote, or you just wanted to present to us?

Speaker 2  2:14:13
I mean, I work for SFI health, so, I mean, all of their probiotics, I would recommend across the board. They do a really great job sourcing. They do a great I mean, their facility is incredible. I love their sac. I've been using their sac B since I was in school. So big, big fan of them. I love their my slides, vitamin A. It's one of the most high, high, highly absorbable vitamin A's on the market, which I really appreciate. And just overall, they've got a huge portfolio, a lot of great options there. They used to be clear labs. A lot of people recognize the name clear labs. They don't always recognize the name SFI health. So I really like them. And then, you know, also just my own, my own FMT world. So if you guys ever have anybody who needs FMT or is in need of some support? Like, please don't hesitate to reach out.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:08
Okay, all right, clearly, I didn't realize that was your you were. Claire latch, so

Speaker 2  2:15:13
yeah, it's wild. They did a big name transition. Like, I mean, they got bought out nine years ago, but then the world of the pandemic hit, and I think that everything just got kind of crazy, and it was during their rebrand. So nobody really realized that Claire is now SFI health, and so we're doing everything we can to kind of re promote that and re push that. It's the same trusted probiotic line, just under a different name.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:42
So okay, so we have used them, yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:15:44
yes,

Unknown Speaker  2:15:46
didn't know it.

Speaker 2  2:15:47
Yeah, you had no idea. You had no idea. But they're great. I mean, then they their whole therabiotic line. Their line is awesome.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:56
Okay, in the chat is the the links for the homeopathic conference on the over the weekend, and also the link for the CME credits so, and you can always get in touch with me if you need it and you miss it. So, okay, so again, Doctor Piper, thank you so much for your expertise. And why wasn't I this smart when I was your guy's guy's age, huh? What the hell happened? What was I doing? So you were

Speaker 2  2:16:26
you just didn't give yourself enough credit. I think we're all guilty of that.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:30
Oh, I didn't know any of this stuff. You know, it wasn't even on the horizon. So

Speaker 2  2:16:36
microbiome hasn't been explored until, like, 20 years ago, like, we learned how to sequence, and then all sudden, we're like, holy shit, there's bugs. There's a ton of bugs. What? So we're learning a lot. Okay, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:16:49
well, we will lean on you to give us an update at some point in the future. And sounds good. It's truly been a pleasure having you, and we, we're very impressed with your expertise.

Speaker 2  2:17:04
Ah, thanks guys. Well, anytime, let me know if you want me to come back, we'll do this again round two.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:11
We don't try to we don't try to overburden you too often. But cool. Okay, so Alright. Sounds great.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:19
Thank you guys. Have a good night.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:21
Anybody else? Have anything that can scenario? Joel, anybody? Anybody else, everybody. Thank you for being with us, the folks in the Philippines. Thank you for being with us. I realize the the homeopathic conference I did, did a little math starts at 11pm in Manila, so I guess that's not, not very practical, but it is, is it? Is it is videoed, and we'll, we'll make sure that we have it available to you, so we'll do it that way. I'll see if I can get Doctor Zen to break it up so that it's not just one long, seven hour thing that does get to be a little tedious that way. So

Speaker 4  2:18:03
I'll give you guys updates on Greece. Maybe next time, I'll gather up all my new info for everybody. Okay, I mean, Germany, not a Greece. Germany.

Bill Clearfield  2:18:13
Hey, Greece.

Speaker 4  2:18:13
I'm losing it. I'm still jet lag. So you probably

Bill Clearfield  2:18:17
have jet lag too. You just got it. Okay, all right, everybody. So thank you so much. Good night, we got one more message and thank you, everybody. Okay, oh that's from you. Okay, bye. Bye. All right, good night everybody.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai