Bill Clearfield  00:03
Really,

Speaker 1  00:12
yeah, yeah,

Speaker 2  00:22
sure, yeah. Can you hear me? I hear you fine. Likewise, boom. All

Bill Clearfield  00:30
right, hang on. Every time I try to make you co-host, somebody else pops up. There we go. Okay. All right. There we go. How was your day,

Speaker 2  00:42
a hot hot, yeah, that I transplanted little too late. Nick kicked my butt.

Bill Clearfield  00:51
You got to get it before 10 o'clock or after five, I think.

Speaker 2  00:55
You do,

Bill Clearfield  00:56
or I think it gets, it gets hotter around 5o'clock here. Actually, it does.

Speaker 2  01:00
Yeah, it's definitely before 10. It wiped me out, but at least I got weeding on the left side of the garden done, and I got the two tomato plants transplanted and the squash transplanted. So that's a starter.

Bill Clearfield  01:20
Oh, they lowered it. Did the rabbits get those

Speaker 2  01:24
guy might be the squirrels too? No, the blueberries are still good, but I brought the two other tomato plants up onto the porch because they're containers, container types, so So, and I think I'll do all the blueberries with the pumpkin that can be 30 to 100 pounds.

Bill Clearfield  01:53
I told you we've done them before. They climb up the fence,

Speaker 2  01:57
right? They don't, they, they bloom on the top of the fence. Yeah, I'll work on that. I got to get some nails and get some steaks and some for the tomato plants, and I'll attach them to the fence, and, and we should be good to go. I'll admit, there's Dr. Nario

Bill Clearfield  02:21
by Bob, is this is this your screen that we're looking at? You're muted. Is this your screen here with all this stuff?

Speaker 3  02:35
Probably

Bill Clearfield  02:38
okay. Was

Speaker 2  02:40
that, or it's AI, it's taken over. Hey, Dr. Neri,

Bill Clearfield  02:48
this is yours, right, Bob? This is you. Yeah, okay, got it.

Speaker 2  02:54
There it is. Yep,

Speaker 3  03:00
okay, do okay,

Speaker 3  03:16
so we're talking about the soccer ball, huh?

Bill Clearfield  03:19
It looks that way,

Speaker 3  03:20
it's World Cup, just in time,

Speaker 2  03:26
you know. It's fun as the videos about everybody from Europe coming over here and finally getting to taste our food, and they're just like, boom, they're like, "No wonder you're all so fat. Oh my god, this is awesome.

Speaker 3  03:41
That's a compliment, right?

Speaker 2  03:43
I know it's sad.

Benoit Tano  03:45
It sucks. Don't

Speaker 2  03:45
get me started soon. It's, it's, man, if they only knew. Stay here a couple months and see what happens when you start getting your migraines and your headaches and your depression, your anxiety, and all sudden you're pre-diabetic, and you're like, okay,

Bill Clearfield  04:04
they don't have that, they don't have that here, there, they don't have

Speaker 2  04:10
very rare suit,

Bill Clearfield  04:13
they don't have headaches in Europe,

Speaker 2  04:16
just the government,

Bill Clearfield  04:17
that scenario, you've been, you've been there, nobody had, and

Speaker 3  04:21
now, I like the food over there. That's why we can't really say we got the same stuff that they have, for sure. They're, they're gonna, they're gonna object with that, with that statement,

Speaker 2  04:35
right?

Speaker 3  04:38
So, I don't think so, but we welcome them in the most American way we can. Amen. The best way to do,

Speaker 2  04:45
yes, we do.

Speaker 3  04:46
Western diet, that's how we welcome peeps.

Speaker 2  04:52
Chick-fil-A, that's big. Texas, everything's big in Texas, in the ribs, so they're all just devouring Texas, you know, Philly, Philly was in there, and cheese steaks, yeah, it's pretty neat. The Japanese, they were like they were devouring food too, that was neat to watch.

Speaker 3  05:15
That's how we beat them, so trying

Bill Clearfield  05:17
to fill these cheese steaks.

Speaker 2  05:19
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  05:20
you know, I grew up with that stuff, you know.

Speaker 2  05:23
Yep,

Bill Clearfield  05:24
nobody ever talks about the soft pretzels from there either. So those are the,

Speaker 2  05:29
yeah, right.

Speaker 3  05:32
We fatten them up, and we, we beat them that way.

Speaker 2  05:36
That's right. Yes, we do

Bill Clearfield  05:43
all right.

Speaker 2  05:48
Oh, there we go.

Speaker 3  05:51
Yeah, we have a good topic today. I really like this, this, this one in a forum. There's a lot of C 60 mentions, so this is definitely something to keep your eye on, everyone.

Speaker 2  06:08
Oh, I believe it, especially with what's going on, and what we were just talking about, I

Speaker 4  06:23
No,

Speaker 3  06:24
Dr. Bill, did the IFM got get back, got back to you.

Bill Clearfield  06:28
Yes, I actually spoke to them today. I was going to talk to you all about

Speaker 3  06:31
it. So

Bill Clearfield  06:32
nice. So I talked to their.. they actually have a department of affiliation, believe it or not. They have about 60 groups that they, that they affiliate with, and, but none of them do what we do, apparently, like

Benoit Tano  06:49
what,

Bill Clearfield  06:50
but like running these, these women webinars every week, and you know, I showed, I showed her our website, you know, with all our, and the YouTube video, we have over 300 videos on the website, so, and I'm a little bit behind, I haven't, I think, last couple of weeks I haven't gotten, gotten it on there, so I'll catch up, but so they were, they were, they were not quite knowing that, usually what they do is, they, they, they, if they might get an affiliation with you, then they'll coordinate conferences if you need it, or get to get your speakers, those kinds of things. No, but she said, but they said to us, I was talking, there's two gals there, and they said, you guys are doing it the opposite way, you, you're going to bring us the speakers. I said, well, that's what I've been doing, you know. We just like to, you know, you know, have access to your, you know, clientele, so that we can spread, spread our word. Maybe figure out a way, maybe to make a couple of bucks here too. That would be nice after six years. So, so it so I mean, the way we left it is they're going to go back to their committee to show them what we have, what we are doing, and what we have to offer, so, so I'm hopeful they were pretty interested in it, they went over, they went over to the website and to the YouTube channel, looked at some of the, you know, some, some of who our speakers were, and what the topics were, and you know, I mean, every week's not a, not, not a winner, but, but we have, we have a lot of good content. Yes, we got to find some ambitious volunteer to go through them all and sort of curate the medical information, so we could actually make.. we have enough information here to make our own sort of curriculum, you know. So by now our own cult, our own cult.

Speaker 2  08:54
I'll volunteer.

Bill Clearfield  08:55
We got

Benoit Tano  08:58
battle

Bill Clearfield  08:59
right. So, so, and then was it last week we had Dr. Tanner, one was, was that,

Benoit Tano  09:06
yeah, yeah, that's like,

Bill Clearfield  09:08
alright, so I signed up for his, I don't know who else did, but I signed up for his

Speaker 3  09:13
Tire Pro,

Bill Clearfield  09:14
yeah, for Taya Pro, and I was able to write a Hashimoto thyroiditis book in five minutes with one prompt, and it came out to be 307 pages.

Benoit Tano  09:26
Sure,

Speaker 3  09:27
Amazon's the best seller. I have

Benoit Tano  09:29
to,

Bill Clearfield  09:30
I have, I have to, I have to edit it, but so,

Benoit Tano  09:35
so, so it's working.

Bill Clearfield  09:38
What's that? It is

Benoit Tano  09:39
working.

Bill Clearfield  09:40
It worked fine. Yeah,

Benoit Tano  09:42
good, excellent,

Bill Clearfield  09:43
yeah. It worked great, you know. And I mean, this, you know, you can, you can get what you have there in pieces, although you know, all over, but to have everything that you have on there in once, in one spot makes it one, saves a lot of time, yeah. And you know, you know, you don't have to go buying all these other, all these programs here, and, and I mean, I've just sort of scratched the surface of it. I mean, it could take, I know you have the, I haven't had time to sit down and watch the four hour video on how to work it, so yeah,

Benoit Tano  10:16
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  10:17
but it's, it's really, you know, unbelievable, you know, and he's not paying me for this, by the way. In fact, I'm paying him. Want you to know that

Speaker 3  10:32
free advertising, that's part of that unsolicited

Bill Clearfield  10:37
Bob. When you come on, I accidentally muted you. Sorry. So, um okay, yeah, so that's that's my editorial, my little announcement. If M is actually, they are interested in our, in what we're doing, so we'll see where that takes us. I'm hopeful. Apparently, my lecture was was well received by the hierarchy. There, I've had a number of people send me emails, and including some of the powers that be there. So, hopefully that went well. And next, Dr. Nario. All right, what do you got for us this week?

Speaker 3  11:18
Oh, am I. is that my cue, or you're asking,

Bill Clearfield  11:21
yeah, you know, we get to get the smart guys talking now. So,

Speaker 3  11:26
okay, so let's do the leak of the week today, okay? So, again, good evening everyone. Thank you again for being here. And I'm going to touch on a topic here that I think everybody's almost doing, so we always hear about PRP. I don't know if

Bill Clearfield  11:42
your camera's off, Dr. Mayer. I don't know if you.. oh,

Speaker 3  11:45
is it?

Bill Clearfield  11:45
You're in the dark.

Speaker 3  11:48
Oh,

Bill Clearfield  11:50
there you go.

Speaker 3  11:52
That better,

Bill Clearfield  11:53
that's better. There you go. We, you know, we get to see your smiling face here.

Speaker 3  11:56
All right. And my spiky here, the things that we do in our regenerative practices, we hear about our BPCs, right, TV 500's GHK coppers, PR, PPRFs. So this all are used in our practices to accelerate healing and, of course, stimulate college information. However, what we sometimes forget that is that these therapies primarily provide signals only. They tell the body to repair. They do not necessarily provide the raw materials needed to execute that repair. That's why I often tell patients who are using these modalities, so they're like construction foremen, so they can give excellent instructions, but if there are no bricks, lumber, or cement at the job site, progress is going to be slow, so I'd like to briefly review the nutritional cofactors that may determine whether regenerative therapies will work or will not work, or will they work exceptionally. So, number one on my list is our favorite, vitamin C. Vitamin C is a required cofactor for pro-life and lysil hydroxylase, so enzymes responsible for stabilizing the triple collagen helix, it's like a DNA structure, so without adequate vitamin C, collagen becomes structurally weak and wound healing suffers. So multiple systemic reviews and clinical studies demonstrated that supplementation of just 500 to 1000 milligrams daily, so that's very minimal with the protocols that we know, and these range improves wound healing, collagen deposition, and tissue recovery in surgical patients, and even chronic wound populations. If your GHKs and VPCs are telling fibroblast to make collagen, vitamin C helps ensure that collagen is actually built correctly. The next one would be collagen peptides, multiple randomized RTT, RCTs, and metal analysis uses 10 to 15 grams daily, so these are more of the bovine ones, and have demonstrated improvements in skin elasticity, skin hydration, joint symptoms, and even connective tissue recovery. Well, collagen peptides provide glycine, proline, and hydroxyproline, so directly to fibroblasts, so think of collagen peptides as delivering precut lumber directly to the construction site, and as expected, outcomes appear strongest. So this is a tip, clinical tip: combine your vitamin C with collagen, or vice versa. Always use this both together whenever you're trying to achieve repair. Another one is zinc, so zinc is frequently overlooked, yet zinc is required for DNA synthesis, protein production, fibroblast proliferation, and even matrix remodeling. Clinical wound healing studies, so particularly in pressure ulcer patients, consistently again show improved healing rates when zinc is included in comprehensive repair formulas. The typical dose, which is always what we've been using in COVID times, 15 to 30 milligrams elemental zinc daily, and no zinc, no construction crew. And I just recently found out also that you have to take this with food, that's a better way to absorb this. Then, magnesium, magnesium participates in over 300 enzymatic reactions. We all know, including energy production and tissue repair, although, yeah, it doesn't receive the same attention as our vitamin C's intelligence. But adequate magnesium supports cellular, I guess, energy generation during these moments of repair, it may help reduce inflammatory burden during recovery. I routinely view magnesium glycinate as, again, my foundational support division, my favorite in most regenerative protocols. And then last one would be amino acids. Finally, it will be glycine and proline, which are major structural components of collagen, and to add to that, like bonus ones would be arginine and glutamine, also have demonstrated benefits in wound healing. So, one particular thing of interest here is RCT found that amino acid formula containing arginine, glutamine, and HMB significantly increases collagen deposition in early subjects. So, while we're excited about peptides, we should not forget that collagen is ultimately made from amino acids. So, key point here is the peptides, right, the Wolverine stacks, the glow stacks, PRP, PRFs may provide the signal, so they just provide signals here, but the supplements that I just mentioned provide the substrate, so sometimes the reason our protocol underperforms isn't because we need another peptide or another PRP, PRF. It's because we've forgotten to feed the construction workers, and they all work together. So, if you have a protocol, add this in there, or even by just having these specific supplements, you definitely will have good results in terms of repair of tissues and even injuries, so that's our Lake Adobe.

Bill Clearfield  16:47
All right. Thank you. Are you doing? Are you passing? So, those of you who don't know,

Benoit Tano  16:52
passing

Bill Clearfield  16:53
Dr. Nario is taking the Integrative Medicine Fellowship at the Andrew Weil at the University of Arizona, so we want to make sure you know that he, he passes here because he's sort of representing all of

Speaker 3  17:09
us, and I wish I was a good representative,

Bill Clearfield  17:13
I got to relive the glory days when I was talking to the IFM representatives today about why we're no longer a CME certified sub specialty at the AOA, so

Speaker 3  17:25
how you gave him that spill.

Bill Clearfield  17:27
Well, they were, they were curiouss about, you know, our history and how we came about. So it's a little hard to avoid it. So

Speaker 3  17:35
that's why we're the renegade group, anyway. We

Bill Clearfield  17:37
are, we are, so, but, but we're cute, and we're lovable, too. Right?

Speaker 3  17:43
There you go. That's the win.

Bill Clearfield  17:45
So, okay, everybody. Well, thank you for coming tonight. Tonight, we have Bob Greska. They say that right? They get it right. Did I get it right?

Speaker 5  17:57
Yes.

Bill Clearfield  17:58
Okay. You know, I lived in Northeast Pennsylvania for 30 years, so I'm pretty, pretty fluent in Eastern, Eastern European dialects. So, so, so, Bob received his Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering from Southeastern Massachusetts University in 1978 he spoke this study on material science, specifically carbon, and mentored under his lifelong friend, the developer of fiber optics, mr. Greska. Joined Lockheed Martin, a missile in space in Sunnyvale, California, 1978 He was a materials specialist with carbon fiber reinforced plastics for a year, and then he was appointed process engineer to oversee the fabrication of the ceramic billet billets. Is that how you say billets? The

Speaker 5  18:52
billets, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  18:53
used for Space Shuttle Columbia's reentry heat shield tiles. How'd that work out?

Speaker 5  19:00
That was the most fun project I've ever worked on. Here's a shuttle tile. Here, this is one of the thicker ones, but you know, I made the billets, the ceramic billet that they used to carve the tiles out of, but that was very good.

Bill Clearfield  19:17
Now, did you.. I noticed this at the topic, but did you make that from scratch? I mean, what, what you know, where does that, an idea like that, come from?

Speaker 5  19:26
Well, what you do is, you take like cotton candy, it's spun sugar. Well, they spin glass the same way, and they make very small, thin fibers, and then they, they get all the shot out of it, all the beads, and then they felt it dry, it center it, and then they machine the tiles out of it, so it takes 2424 Fahrenheit to center these things together.

Bill Clearfield  19:52
Wow, okay,

Speaker 5  19:53
yeah,

Bill Clearfield  19:54
right. And the AOA didn't want to, you know, we were not scientific enough for them, right? We weren't good enough for them. You're going to hear, you're going to hear that at a Nevada Osteopathic Medical Association conference. I don't think so. Right, space shuttle external tanks that mr. Greska worked at NASA to initiate test programs to establish the scale up of external tank production. Magellan Venus probe, mr. Greska tested Magellan Venus probes reflective coatings to study the degradation resulting from the sun's intensity, and a space backpack provided material engineering support for the fiber-reinforced force structural frame for the man maneuvering unit in 1980 mr. Greska relocated to Little Colorado, and provided materials engineering support for carbon fiber spacecraft structures at Martin Marietta Aerospace. He provided design support for Boeing 767 aircraft engine nacelles. He worked on the Venus Magellan probe and man maneuvering unit in 1990 began a new life form and dedicated his life to the advancement of health and human performance. Founding Engineering Innovations, LLC, this was a firm that designed and manufactured carbon, carbon fiber, and Kevlar structures for medical, sports, fitness, and aerospace communities. He was one of the pioneers in braiding carbon fiber. He worked on the robot arm. He developed a revolutionary carbon fiber robot arm, graphite wrap, baseball bats, drumsticks, light violin bows, and other carbon products, spring loaded shoes. mr. mr. this is, this is a this is a this is like a hallmarks life. Small spring-loaded shoes. mr. Greska pioneered the modern day spring shoe, developing and testing prototypes at MIT metabolic table. He produced large honeycomb sandwich graphite epoxy forest platforms for human metabolic studies. Glass man drills. They produce large honeycomb sandwich graphite epoxy force platforms for human metabolic studies. Hypo back, hypo, hypo should be Hyperbaric or hypobaric,

Speaker 5  22:14
hypobaric. It's a vacuum chamber,

Bill Clearfield  22:19
personal, personal Hyperbaric high altitude simulation chamber known provided providing known tour to France. Bicolest bicycle is competitive edge energy return crutches hydrogen electrolysis. I mean, you name it. This, our speaker tonight is has done it. So, Bob, I'm going to let you take over from here, and we're going to hear about carbon C C 60 carbon, right, carbon 60.

Speaker 5  22:51
Thank you for the introduction. Yeah, we're going to, we're going to touch on carbon 60 and how it works. What are the health benefits, and how we came about it? Let me click through here. Yeah, materials engineering, NASA aerospace, carbon fiber innovator, health and human performance. These are some of the things. This, the middle slide there, it looks at this braiding of carbon fiber, and I worked in my hometown. They made bungee coat, which uses braiding machines, so I modified them to braid carbon fiber, which is much more brittle fiber. So we did various things with that, and there's the hypobaric chamber on the right there, that high altitude chamber, which put like people like Lance Armstrong started winning races using that, then he started taking more synthetic EPO, and kind of ruined his reputation there by doing that, but he started winning with this chamber. Same thing with Michael Phelps, that won the 19 goals. This same technology was used for him to win those 19 goals. Also, Steve Fossett, the gentleman that ballooned around the world in a hot airplane, hot hot air balloon. He circumvented the globe. He trained in one of these chambers at a very high altitude, and so he could carry less oxygen, so we can make the trip feasible. And again, the space backpack, the center bottom one is high electrolysis of the stainless steel plates, here, that's where we did the electrolysis of water to separate it into hydrogen and oxygen, and we made, you know, the hydrogen is a very good fuel, and that was done. I did studies on that for years, and studied different liquids and materials of use to make this possible. Try to get the efficiency up as high as possible. And then the last slide there is the energy running shoe, that's the energy return. It has a spring. Sorry, I've got one right here. You can see the spring, and it's carbon fiber. It looks like a footprint, but it bends, it flexes, and it returns your energy. People like, like Nike knocked them off with Air Nikes, and then Z coil knocked them off with the Z coil shoe, which is carbon fiber, is very expensive to put in a shoe. It was just too much, so they went otherwise. But back to the Bucky ball, carbons, carbon 60 was discovered in 1985 and it received a Nobel Prize in 96 pretty quickly. And I made clean carbon 60 in 2012 All these other processes were solvent extraction processes, and the reason they call it carbon 60 is made up of 60 carbon atoms, which are in the sphere that pretty much look like a soccer ball, with the intersections, the traffic, a intersection being with the, do the carbon atom, is and being of spherical nature, it's very strong, it can give up electrons. We have a clean process, like I say, if you look at these slides, electron microscopic pictures shows that our particle size is very small compared to other vendors, very, very small. Ours are 20 nanometers, theirs are 1200 nanometers, and you can see ours is black, the one on the left, and the other ones are contaminated with solvents, and that's their as produced or sublimated carbon 60, which is a higher heat process, to it's like vacuum up and drying it, but it's a much higher heat process. They actually sublimate the carbon, in other words, it goes from a phase transition from a solid to a gas. There's no liquid phase, that's called sublimation, and it reformulates as carbon 60, and it cleans up a lot of the solvents, but still not all of them. They're still crystalline in shape and form. These are 20 nanometer spheres, perfectly round, and the higher concentrations. You can see the magnifications on the right. We have this all published on our website, so ours is very bioavailable due to the small size, it travels around the body. Just to give you some idea, if you hollowed out a red blood cell, these 20 nanometer spheres of carbon, we can put, we can fit 14 billion carbon 60 molecules inside one red blood cell, so they are very small. They work on a mitochondria level. If you consider, like a car wash sponge, a size of a mitochondria, chondria, these molecules would be the size of a head of a pin, a common pin.

Speaker 5  27:36
So they would dig it right into the mitochondria very easily, uh ours is meant back, you know, tested through testing laboratories, third party testing, and showing how clean our product is. Most of the carbon 60 companies call this out, they call it as purity, but purity is not really how clean the product is. Purity, by their definition is a ratio of carbon 60 to carbon 70 or carbon 84 some of those higher fullerenes. So, when, as long as it's clean, it has no, no trace elements of metals, sulfur, chlorine, potassium, sodium, anything else. The only thing we have in ours is a trace amount of oxygen, so it's very clean, that's that's very, very, very important, because the solvent they use is toluene, which is a gasoline additive, a hydrocarbon solvent, and it accumulates in your body, your body does not know how to get rid of it, so it seques into your fat tissues of your body until it builds up in about four months, you start getting some negative effects, or sooner if you're not very fat. If you're a thin person with a low amount of adipose tissue, you notice the effects of the negative of the toluene much sooner. Some of them notice it the first day. Ours is pure natural, that's black. It's very black. Carbon 60 is extremely black. My competitors, they're all solvent-tainted. And when, when you put it in carbon 60, the molecule, you take the molecule, you put it into solvents, what happens? It swells the molecule and changes the lattice structure between the atoms, so the light refraction will reflect over the distance. That's what makes color is the spacing distance of the lattice structure. If they're so far apart, they'll reflect the color red. If they're a little further, there's purple, and so when it's close together, they absorb all the light, making it black, and that's why most of my competitors have a purple tint to their product, because they have trace amounts of solvents in them. Yeah, we're all third party, not we have complete transparency. All the testing is published, we're organic, non-GMO, contaminant-free, heavy metal test, all that. We follow other requirements, and as you age, as you get older, your body cannot remove the toxins as quickly, or the free radicals. The free radicals are generated in your mitochondria when they convert the food that you eat into ATP. ATP is a food currency for the body. When it does that, it generates free radicals inside your mitochondria, and they will - the free radicals will take the cell from functioning properly, but your body naturally gets rid of them. But as you get older, your body does not eliminate the free radicals as quickly, so they build up. You have cell death apoptosis much sooner, because you have more free radicals in your cell. So, if you can eliminate the free radicals, you can eliminate early cell death, and you can eliminate some of the aging process of using up, and the telomere, and you'll, you'll, DNA, syle, that's, and, I'll, I'm, you'll, I'll, I'll, I'll steal from its neighbor, that molecule from its neighbor, and so forth. That domino cascade effect is called oxidative stress, and it rips through a cell, and it's very damaging, and so when it, when it damages, when it rips through your cell, very damaging, it hinders that cell's performance, and that's one electron being transferred from one molecule to another molecule to another molecule, so that's only one electron that makes a big difference. Now, if you look at Carbo, the benefits of carbon 60, carbon 60 being a spherical molecule, molecules very structurally strong, and it can give up an electron without collapsing, and this is what makes this is the big benefit of what makes carbon 60. It's like an antioxidant, but the breakthrough here is the smallest of size. It's very, they're 200,000 times smaller than the antioxidants you find in red wines and foods, and you know, berries, and so forth, these are all your typical antioxidants, which you eat, which are very good for you, but they're large, and so the smallest makes a huge difference of how this product works in your body. It targets free radicals, which generate inflammation, so most people can apply it topically.

Speaker 5  32:43
We have a topical spray you can spray on that's water-based, carrying carbon 60, which I was told was impossible to put it into water, but after three years of test and trial and error, I was able to completely get it to suspended water without the use of any additives or or actually chemically modifying the carbon 60 molecule by hydroxylating it by adding an O H group to it, you had 20 4o H groups, groups of 60 available atoms, now it is water soluble, but now your molecules bigger, it's chemically modified, it doesn't work as well as the single molecules by themselves, brain function people report better clarity of mind. Typically, we have people eight to 10 days into taking carbon 60. They say they have clarity of mind, they can think better, they can work faster. I have stock brokers and crypto traders taking a product, and they call me up, say, made a million dollars with your product. Yep, well, because they can trade faster and do that. And then they tell me, says, I bet I made more money than anybody else. I said, no, I got a guy that just crested a billion dollars, he was at 700 million, and he said he's been using my product, and he crested, took him a couple years, but he crested a billion dollars worth of crypto, so there's a lot of peer-reviewed studies also on you looking at amyloid plaques in your brain, and so forth, like that, which is basically information-based, or close to it, the inflammation goes away. There are peer-reviewed published studies on animal studies right now showing that it does help, and they're published on Alzheimer's and dementia, and showing the ability that they do work and help with memory and cognitive function. We have a lot of people talk about that performance enhancement. We have athletes that use our product and run with it, and or they perform as an athlete. Every athlete, 100% not 99% 100% of the athletes that have taken carbon 60 have taken first place, and they, I had some that came from middle of the pack to first place. It took them all, it took, they took first place in their local district, but they moved up into the state, into third place over like nine month period of time. Even a horse, we gave it to a horse that was running, was a private race, where they give the horses drugs or amphetamines, or whatever they do, and he gave his horse carbon 60, and he won. It was four gentlemen put up $10,000 a piece, and they run their horses, and he took first place six times in a row, and nobody else took the money six times in a row, and so nobody else, nobody else would race that guy in a horse with the horse that when he was taking the carbon 60, basically carbon 60 works like a magnet, it's the positive charge of the free radical and the negative charge of the available electrons on the carbon 60 molecule, so the carbon 60 will actually, by magnetic or electronic force, electron pulling positive, the free radical, they will attract each other, so the carbon 60 actually finds the problem in the body where it's missing electron, gives an electron the problem solved, and it works fairly quickly. We've, it'll penetrate the skin of a body within and reach an organ within five minutes. We had a clinician in Canada, in Toronto, Canada. She used a bio feedback system to determine, determine the health of the organs, and what she did is she put the carbon 60 topically on their scan, their body got the health of the organs, put the carbon 60 on their chest, came back in five minutes later and scanned them again. Typically she spends a month with traditional supplements and she'll see a 10% increase in the health of the organs. In five minutes she saw a 35% increase in the health of the organs after just applying it topically, and she's been doing this for 20 years, so she's very confident in her equipment. She was so excited that she bought a plane ticket for her and a business partner. They flew from Toronto to Denver, took an Uber, met me at my office, and laid all the paperwork out on a table, and said, Why is this happening?

Speaker 5  37:28
Because she's never seen anything work that good in her lifetime. Skin health, it helps with fine lines and wrinkles, eight spots, blemishes. Even we have picture proof of a gentleman, probably about a 12 year old boy, he's in Vietnam, and he had a birthmark on the side of his face, the purple birthmark, and after I think it was six or eight days, the birthmark was 80% gone, and that's a genetic defect from birth. I don't understand why and how that would work that way, but it did, and we have other people with blemishes, age spots, wrinkles, even crusty patches, a word that begins with C, mutated cells that we've seen people that have them and confirm them what they were, they did biopsies on them, and in about four days, if you put the carbon 60 on it, it'll form a ring around that scab, like somebody had a pen that had white ink in it and drew a white line around that, and I was told that was the white blood cells coming up, and it forms a barrier between that scab, and in about 10 days or 14 days later, that scab just falls off, and those mutated cells are gone, and you just have my perfect, beautiful looks like baby skin, actually it's quite young, saving lives. Yes, we so far we have 36 people that have claimed that they life was saved by taking common carbon 60, a couple of them, they saved their life twice because they were toxified. But yeah, 36 people have told me this is what happened. Energy boost, people that are working in the field. I've got a truck driver out there, and I have a myriad of anecdotal stories, testimonies coming in. So, if you want to ask any testimonies later on in this presentation, or ask about any particular health problem, I have 1000s of testimonies, so I can tell you what happened. But people get an energy boost, and that's what we came up with - the slogan: 70 is the new 50 with carbon 60 because people, so many people call me, said I'm 50, I'm 70 years old, I feel tired, I'm sluggish, I don't have the energy I used to. They start taking my product and they said I haven't felt like this since I was 50. We've had a truck driver, over the road semi truck driver, female, she's 64 years old. She said, "I can't unload the trucks anymore, I can't do that anymore. She started taking the carbon 60. She said, "I'm back in the game, and it didn't take her long, you know, in like a couple weeks. It doesn't, this product works very quickly, you know, once it seeks out that positively charged molecule and attaches to it, it's over the Begin, you know, the problem's fixed. This is glyphosate toxicity. This gentleman worked in a flour mill where they killed all the wheat with glyphosate, and he was exposed to all that flour for quite some time, and his legs, all you can see on the left here, before it's all crusty and not very mobile and not very functional. After a month, this is his leg on the right, it's, you know, not not perfect, but it's greatly improved. This is chemotherapy. This is at after 90 days after chemotherapy, and then after this is only like four days after putting the carbon 60 on topically. Those are the results that happen from her hand to her hand, you know. We have a wound healing doctor in Hollywood, Florida, he uses it for treating people with blood sugar levels, and that have sores that don't heal, and he'll put it on topically our water-based miss, and within like a week or so, they close up and they heal up. This is the matter of fact, this is the picture, the wound healing doctor. This was a before and after, and that's like eight or 10 days after the after he started applying it, so pretty amazing results we have, and they are all anecdotal. We don't have any clinical trials to back this up. His foundering with a horse hoof, the, you know, they're about to put the horse down and couldn't walk around within like 10 days, that horse was actually galloping, and then after three months, you can see it started growing the hoof out.

Speaker 5  42:06
After five months, the hoof looks really good. Of course, it grew out and they trimmed it, but even with horses, there's no placebo effect there. This is the birthmark on the face. This was six days after applying it topically, his face went away, his blemishes disappeared almost significantly. Let's put it that way. This is face serum before and after 30 days of use. That's our carbon 60 in the Squalane oil. Squalane is a high-end cosmetic oil, and it very absorbs into the skin very nicely, and it brings the carbon 60, the carbon 60 will go into the skin anyways by itself, because it's so small, but before and after, you can see your skin is more supple, more radiant looking, this stacking of red blood cells in your body with rouleau, we had, I think, five customers, patients, they call them. They did a before and after, and this was, I think, 30 days before and after, from stacking in ugly looking cells and irregular to nice fine separated round looking healthy cells, so that was the difference with live blood cell analysis. There we did a field. This is one of the.. this is the only clinical trial that I think has ever been done on humans, and it was a small one that we did with the female Biome. We had a gut Biome doctor that wanted to gut level studies, because we had a lot of people that would have gut problems resolved with the carbon 60, and, but, but these females were miles apart, so they, he said, you know, the gut Biome, same as the vagina Biome, they're just a Biome, and they can swab that, the woman could swab themselves and send the samples in and he would test them for the bacteria and it turned all the bacteria upside down or straightened it out from having too much bad bacteria to the good bacteria that you need and that turned that around in 15 days the woman injected the carbon 60 with a cylinder syringe with no needle, one one milliliter syringe with no needle. They injected it into the vagina and also took it orally for 15 days, swabbed himself before, swabbed himself after. Everyone came back in really in a perfect shape. This is a brown recluse spider bite. If you ever seen one of those, it kind of melon balls your skin right out. This one got bit, it stops the necrosis, to it's a toxin. So the toxin is neutralized. Toxins, by definition, are electron stealers. They come into your body and they steal electrons. You give a toxin an electron, it's no longer a toxin, it has no more charge or affinity. It passes out your body, it passes out through your GI tract. From what we've seen, but this was pretty good with a Brown Recluse radiation protection. Radiation is a sine wave, and if you get into your gamma rays and your X-rays, your high-end radiate the high frequency waves, those are the ones that are most dangerous, because with the frequency, they're more probable, proper, the probability of them hitting an electron is much, much, much greater. If you can imagine a sine wave going across one piece of paper, you know, and putting a.on it, the likelihood of that sine wave hitting that dot, which is considered an electron, is kind of remote, but if you go up and down a million times, there's a great, much, much greater probability that sine wave is going to hit that electron and knock it off the particle, and that's why the higher frequency waves are much more dangerous than the low frequency waves, and that's why g 6g they're talking now, and so forth like that, talking that, what is it, 1811 the where would it was, some flu, they called it, but it was actually the introduction of sine waves, um This is another person that has hip pain, and so forth, like that, and they spray the topical product on there, and typically the pain goes away, it stays away. It depends upon how much pain or how much inflammation you have going on in your body. I had someone just the other day. I had a barbecue at my house, and they came by, and they said, 'Yeah, your product, I put it on a couple days ago.

Speaker 5  46:48
That they had a joint in their thumb that was sore, they sprayed it on there, and they said, 'It's still not hurting, and that was a few days. So, it depends upon the particular person, is how long it would last, but it's not a, it's not a, it's not a cure, but it does stop the inflammation. People that have peripheral nerve pain. I was at a, what do you call it, a supplement store in Florida, and a gentleman walked in, and I said, and he was walking kind of funny, and I said, what do you got going on, and he says, Well, I have peripheral nerve pain, and I said, Well, here, take this product, go sit down outside, spray it on your feet, and come back in in a few minutes, and tell me what you think. He, I said, You know, most likely your pain will go away. And he says, Gosh, with an offer like that, he says, I can't refuse to not try it. So we went outside, took his socks and shoes off, sprayed it on his feet, put his socks and shoes back in. Came in and he said, I could feel my feet, and I've had other people do the same thing too. They can feel their, they can, same thing with uric acid build up in your toe. I've got, if you know, David Avocado Wolf, he had that problem. He sprays it on his toe, and within minutes the pain goes away. I had a gentleman, he taught Ty. I was going door to door when I started doing this, and I, there was a guy that taught taekwondo, and next to it, there was a supplement sore. So I went and revisited this gentleman with taekwondo, and he said, he says, I can't walk very good. He was on crutches, he had uric acid bill up in his feet, he needed his crutches to get around, and it was very painful. I said, okay, here, spray some on your feet, I'm going next door. And well, this is when we were using the carbon 60 in the sunflow oil, so he rubbed some on his feet, and I said, I'm going next door to see if I can sell my product. So I went back door and left and went out to my car. He comes running out without crutches and say, "I can't believe it, my pain's gone. So I've got like millions, like 1000s of stories of anecdotal evidence leaning things in the right direction, knee pain, joint pain, lower back pain, it's all they all work very similar. It really helps with pain, and that's what I do when I go to an expo, and I have a booth there. People come by with pain, I'll spray it on them, and they'll walk 20 feet away, turn around, and come back and say, 'Hey, the pain's gone. So I've seen pretty miraculous results with that. Oh this lady here, her mom cried, she, because she has no longer with knee pain. Her mom started crying, she was so emotionally moved because the pain went away after having years of pain. X-ray proof, we have x-ray proof of it by a doctor, they looked at the carbon, you know, they need before and after taking the carbon 60. I had a gentleman that had joint on joint, bone on bone, bone on bone on his knee, and he could, you know, get up, walk to the front door, stop, grimace in pain, walk to his car, sit down, and drive away, grimace and pain again, and he was on cortisol and painkillers of some sort, and he was still having all this pain. After three months of using the Carbo 60, he says, "I don't need the cortisol, I don't need the pain killers. He says, "I'm not 100% perfect, but I can get around and I have my mobility back, and we believe why the cartilage takes three months to work, it did in that case, is because the lack of blood flow that's in the cartilage. Then you get your ligaments and tendons, they take a couple of weeks or so, something like that, but your soft tissue, like muscle or nerves, or things like that, that go pretty quickly.

Speaker 5  50:38
We had a girl that had, guess what, I'm going to call it here, without naming the disease, because I'm not, I don't want the FDA coming after me, but she had cognitive function that's caused by vaccines, and she finally, after taking the product for the first time, she looked her mom straight in the eye, straight in the eye, and started talking to her, and actually emptied the bin on the vacuum cleaner, and was able to vacuum, so I mean it helped with that young girl. Yes, stamina running recovery people that have uric acid build up, not uric acid, but lactic acid build up in their muscles, and so forth, is a methodology somebody explained to me how it goes away, but it actually attacks the lactic acid build up, so there's no such thing as delayed onset muscles, muscle soreness, DOMs anymore, delayed onset muscle soreness that pretty much goes away when people use this product, they don't have the soreness of the muscles, so if they want to work out, they can work their upper body day after day after day, and work their upper body tomorrow. I've got Frank Zane, he was using the product, he was, he was.. I got a picture of him right here, but he was using the product, teaching Hernandez, or training Hernandez at the time, and, of course, Hernandez took first place, and somebody said, "I can't manage. He told me not to mention his name in the same sentence as steroids, but one gentleman that I was just talking about, he said it's like being on steroids without the aggression, and that's what he attributed to Carbo 60 to being like vision. We have many people, many - this is a third most reported thing that we see. Their vision improves, they don't need their cheaters, their reading glasses, their floaters disappear, their degradation of the retina in the back of the eyeball that goes away, that grows new cells, or whatever, they can't see it anymore, the pressure in the eyeball goes away also, and they, that's about three months, excuse me, about a month to see improvement with your eyes. People have reported hearing loss. I've had a few people that were stone deaf, they could not hear anything, they put the drops in their ears, they could talk on the phone that they could, they could start to hear that afternoon. The next day, they were talking on the phone with that same ear, and they were looking at laser surgery, and they were looking at hearing aids, and all kinds of other alternatives, but just putting four drops of the carbon 60 sunflower oil in their ear, they saw their improvements in the results very quickly. I had a couple people like that, people that have ringing in their ear, not everybody by a long shot, but I'd say a third or more have seen their ringing stop or diminish significantly, and that's by just putting like four drops in your ear, let it wet your eardrum, and then sit up, rub it on your ear, behind your ear, on the skull on your ear, and apparently the hearing loss. I want to go back here. Apparently, the inflammation stopped those bones from rattling, and carbon 60 attacked the inflammation and got rid of that, so the bones could rattle. That's the only rational experience I can think why it worked. Sleep, most people, we recommend taking it in the morning, because it will activate those cells, even if they're dormant brain cells that have too many free radicals, it will turn them on, and you can thought process better, and you stay awake thinking of more stuff. So we recommend taking the carbon 60 in the morning, and some people take it twice a day, but we recommend them taking it if they have a more severe condition. We recommend them taking it like 6o'clock in the evening, so their body gets to process it a little bit, so they can, they can sleep. It's not like an amphetamine or anything like that. It just turns your brain on, so it's just those cells are now working that were dormant before or partially dormant performance cyclist called me up. He was taking my product, and he says, "I've taken first place, first place, first place, second place, taking your product. Would you like to sponsor me?

Speaker 5  55:16
So we bought him a few t-shirts and gave him some free product, and he kept winning, first place, first place, first place, second place, and he, he's holding up two bicycles, one for the gravel race and one for the mountain race, and he won both divisions one year, and I'm sure he's still winning scientific studies, me being a scientist and with an engineering background, I look at everything, and I don't leave too many stones unturned. If there's a question there, I want to resolve it. We've looked at, you can, you can Google carbon 60, and any health issue that you can think of, any pharmaceutical determined or named health issue and carbon 60, and you will see a peer-reviewed published study, like in PubMed or National Institute of Health or Springer, about it, and we have many of them published or accessed on our website, you can read them there, but once you click on them to go off our website, so our website is www dot c6 zero.com and I recommend putting the www in there when you search for it, because that'll get your directory to our site and not navigate these other companies that have copycatted me, basically, but they buy the commercial grade carbon 60, which is solvent extracted out of soot, and I developed a process, being a carbon engineer, of converting something that has carbon into it into carbon 60 molecules without the use of any solvents or toxins or any contaminants anywhere, like I said, the only contaminant we have in our product is about a half a percent of oxygen, if you call that a contaminant, but it hasn't been a problem, we have, we don't have negative results, we don't have the solvents that everybody else does, or the clusters that are very large, the clusters that are produced by these solvent extraction techniques, even if they Sublimed it, they crystallized, and they form these charts or knife-like structures of crystal and structures that are very not, not very compatible with yourselves, and they're very large, and that's why my competitors have to mix theirs for two weeks to try to break those clusters down, we mix ours for two minutes. We don't have to try to break the clusters down, because we're already starting with 20 nanometer particles. So ours is very, very bioavailable, and well, of course, easier to produce, and our cost is less than our competitors. Also, they charge a quite a bit more,

Benoit Tano  58:00
the

Speaker 5  58:00
HIV and viruses, carbon 60. There's a couple publications here. We'll get inside the HIV virus, and they say they believe by geometry being spherical and structure, get inside the virus and stop it from being able to reproduce or prolife in your body, and so there's a, there's some PubMed, whatever, National Institute of Health, whatever publications on that, peer-reviewed published articles, there same thing with COVID, we got people on their deathbed, one gentleman, I talked to him today, and he said he was in a hospital on his death bed. His brother brought him in a bottle of carbon 60. The next day, at 3o'clock he left the hospital. He walked up and got out of there. Not saying that it's secure for anything, but it did help this gentleman recover. Daily consistency is important on startup. If you want to take it, don't take it two days, take a day off, take another day or two, and take it, take it every day in the mornings, just pop it in your mouth, with or without food, and use the topical application to flood a particular part of your body with the carbon 60 molecules, like, take it orally, it'll go systemic throughout your entire body within a couple minutes, and then take, put it on topically over a troublesome area, whether it's a thyroid. I got a story about a thyroid, a thyroid doctor, he had like 30 patients come in on a Tuesday, they all.. it was a thyroid day, and they all came in. He tried it topically in their office, and he said he had 27 out of the 30 reported positive results with it, just putting it on topically in his office within a few minutes. I was.. I was at an expo, and I had to say I had a similar situation. I had a gal come by, she was wearing a Parker and, you know, puffy Parker, and some like ski pants, some some to keep her warm. She says, I'm always cold, and she didn't want to take it early, so I said, Well, just put a little bit on your neck, and she did. And five, a few minutes, she comes over to me, she says, I'm sweating, I'm sweating, and of course I got to enter my joke. I said I do that to all the girls, and but anyways she said I'm sweating, I'm sweating. He said I don't sweat because my thyroid, he says, and so she got about a little product and she was happy with it. Our best sellers are carbon 60 and sunflower oil, the sunflower we use is a seed oil, but it is a low omega six seed oil. It's actually lower, or low, and or lower, low as, or lower than any quality olive oil and omega six content, and all of them are organic, non-GMO. They're all cold press all of our oils, so they're all we did the research and picked out the best we can find for our sunflower oils. Our best sellers are our water-based topical mist, our carbon 60 and sunflower oil, and our face serum. We introduced a face serum, and within six months that became our second best-selling product, so that's what there we do have wholesale resell affiliate programs, or whatever. Any questions, you can email our company email at info at C 60.com for a copy of this presentation, or if you'd like to visit our website, please. Do and for better health, it's Bob Greska, and give us a call. We have a live operator that answers the phone, and usually me or somebody else in the office, but they're all very versed. And initially, I have my son and a friend of mine, Jeff, that still works for me. I get off the phone with the customer, and they tell me all the stuff, and they go, 'Cut it out, you're kidding. And they said, 'You're making half of that up. They didn't believe me, so I put my phone on speaker.

Speaker 5  1:02:14
The next call I got, I did this for about 10 calls in a row. I put it on speaker, and I said, 'Listen to their story. I said, I don't know who this is calling, and within 10 phone calls that they just quiet sat there quietly and listened while I talked to them. They were convinced how good the product was. But anyways, that's the end of my presentation. If you have any questions or comments, I'm ready for them.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:41
Okay. Thank you so much, Bob. That's interesting, as always.

Speaker 6  1:02:47
Question,

Bill Clearfield  1:02:48
go ahead.

Speaker 6  1:02:50
Can you hear me?

Bill Clearfield  1:02:51
Yep.

Speaker 5  1:02:52
Yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:02:56
Go ahead.

Speaker 6  1:02:59
Okay. Yeah. Have you had any alpha gal syndrome people use this

Speaker 5  1:03:05
kind of gals,

Speaker 6  1:03:09
alpha gals from the tick, the Lone Star tick,

Speaker 5  1:03:13
you know? I, I've got people that have had Lyme and use it, and they were bedridden, and I've got a video on that, that's on our website, and the video is I have my life back, and she actually flew out to Denver, and we did a video with Kathy Ireland, and she was one of the, you know, five or six stars that we had talking about Carbon 60 that flew in from all parts of the country to do videos, video testimony, testimonies, but I don't know about that other situation, but this was she had line

Speaker 6  1:03:53
alpha gal, you can't have any red meat or dairy products, or you could die of what do you call it, shock.

Speaker 5  1:04:03
Okay,

Speaker 6  1:04:04
like an extreme allergy from the tick.

Speaker 5  1:04:08
Okay. Well, you know, there's something that's either it's a toxin or some of your cellular function is not working properly.

Speaker 6  1:04:17
No, I'll explain it. It

Benoit Tano  1:04:20
okay

Speaker 6  1:04:21
comes from okay, the tick bites a deer. All mammals have a particular sugar protein, and I can't be real scientific about this, but they have this protein, all mammals except humans and apes, and if you get bit by one, a tick that has that protein in it, and it goes into your bloodstream. Then your body sends out antibodies to fight it off, and after a while, you become like a person who's allergic to peanuts, and you can just die of anaphylactic shock. So, without knowing what hit you, because you didn't know about Alpha Gal syndrome, which is relatively new, but not to a lot of us, because, like, I've been bitten by several of these stupid ticks. Now, probably the only person you know that has a bag of ticks in her bathroom.

Speaker 5  1:05:14
No, but I'm saving for some

Speaker 6  1:05:15
researcher.

Speaker 5  1:05:17
I don't know of anybody who's had that. I do know people that have pollen issues, where they have wheezing and you know, runny nose, and so forth, like that, and they'll actually take the carbon 60 sunflower and snort it up their nose, and the next day they won't have any pollen issues, it's gone. I mean, within a day, I got, I got a gentleman that just tried that today. I said, 'Here is a bot. He's my print, one of my printers that prints out some of our publications, or some of our flyers. It is also, well, we've been known each other for a while, so he's a good friend. I said, 'Here, try this, snort it, and tell me what happens. And so, what that's going to happen, he'll let me know tomorrow.

Speaker 6  1:06:00
Well, what our problem is, that is, that if we only way we could test it that way would be to take a risk of dying, so we'd have to take the product and then go get tested again and see if the, you know, we still are testing positive for the protein or the,

Benoit Tano  1:06:25
yeah,

Speaker 5  1:06:27
our track record for toxicity is carbon, it's natural, it's, you know, we're made out of 20% carbon, you know, the food we eat is made out of carbon, the vegetables and the meat and the fish, so it's not, unless they're allergic to or have a reaction to sunflower oil, the carbon is totally inert in the body. It's not going to hurt anybody. And our product has, it wouldn't hurt

Speaker 6  1:06:50
me. The product wouldn't hurt me. It would be if I tested it by eating meat tested to see if it's safe to eat meat after using the product.

Speaker 5  1:07:02
Well, you're on your own there.

Speaker 6  1:07:05
So, yeah. So, I just wondered. It sounds like it might work. Nothing else that I know.

Speaker 5  1:07:11
I would be surprised if it didn't. You know, I mean, statistically we have over a 98% success rate, or more, 99 I mean, for any health issue, any biological health issue, I'm not talking broken bones, mechanical defects, or chiropractic, but even then I had people that, like, went in for hip replacements, and they go in a week later, not, and usually it's a month before they get on the treadmill, but this one guy gets, you know, gets his hip replacement, goes into the doctor for a week, and a week later he goes in, so-called buck diddying around, and they put him on a treadmill that day, one week, and, and I've got video of showing how the carbon 60, I haven't published this, because, you know people talk about self-assembling carbon graphene oxide and all these things, you know. So, I didn't publish it, but I have pictures. It took me 20 shots to get it, but of carbon 60, I put some on the back of a credit card where there are miniature Grand Canyons, and the carbon 60 will go to the tip of that V, the bottom of the Grand Canyon, and start, so the carbon will actually start filling up that canyon, like looking down into Grand Canyon and watching the river rise. It would be filled up with current carbon, and they use carbon excessively, like a carbon felt for burn victims, where they have no skin left. They'll put a patch of carbon fiber felt in that area to brought to provide nucleation sites for new tissue to start to grow on, and so I'm assuming that's the same thing happens with the carbon 60 powder in those miniature Grand Canyons, or in cracks and crevices in your body, because people mend up much, much, much faster, and so that's what I think's going on there.

Speaker 6  1:09:03
Thanks.

Speaker 7  1:09:04
I have a question.

Speaker 2  1:09:07
Go ahead.

Speaker 7  1:09:09
I missed the part on how carbon 60 can be reflective of the light and absorb the light at the same time, and also, how can carbon 60 be applied on eye health issues?

Speaker 5  1:09:28
Okay, well, carbon 60 absorbs is black, being black, it absorbs all the light that's coming through, and that's why it's black. It absorbs all the energy, that's why they paint things black to absorb the sunlight to make them heat up faster, like, and it's used in solar cells and automotive in lubricant applications. So, as far as reflecting light, carbon 60, like, what is it? I forget the name of it, but it's a very, very black paint. We bought some. Our product is much, much, much blacker. If you put some in an aluminum tin and look at it, you can't even tell how much is in there, because it doesn't reflect any light at all. I believe, I believe our carbon 60 is the blackest thing on the planet. I don't, I have not seen anything else that comes close, and how it works for the eye, you can apply it topically, the oil over your eyelids, and it will penetrate and reach into the eye. I had a girl that was doing that, she was blind, black blind, she couldn't see anything, and she also was a double amputee, so she might have been I don't know, a diabetic or something like that, but she was black blind. She put it on her eyelids, and like, within 10 days, she could see the hotspots, the lights on the ceiling, and she could see, like, looking through a blanket. And that's just an anecdotal testimony. They call me over the phone, you know, I'm not. I don't make this stuff up, so putting it on your eye, or even a topical mist, the water-based product, you can just spray it on your eyelids, and we don't recommend putting it in your eye, as because we are not stertified sterile, we use distilled water, we have clean equipment, we have a pretty good clean room, but still, since we're not certified sterile, we cannot recommend putting it directly in the eye, but on your eyelid it reaches in there, it gets in there.

Speaker 7  1:11:31
Thank you.

Speaker 5  1:11:32
You're welcome.

Bill Clearfield  1:11:35
There's a question, Bob, about what's the difference between C 60 and C 70.

Speaker 5  1:11:41
Well, C Cecily has 10 more carbon atoms, which actually changes the shape of it. The form it looks like a rounded nose rugby ball, and it's not, of course, this has a bigger diameter one direction than the other, and it's not very stable, as, as if it gives up electrons, it will suffer some structural integrity. That's a decs 60 to see 70 to see 84 to see 96 to see 104 There are many carbon 60 molecules, but the only one that's truly spherical is the carbon 60 molecule, which looks like a soccer ball made out of pentagons and hexagons. It's got 12 pentagons and 10 hexagons, I think 14 hexagons. Yeah, 14 hexagons.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:33
Somebody lost. So, what it would cost?

Speaker 5  1:12:39
What would cost what the product?

Bill Clearfield  1:12:42
Yeah.

Speaker 5  1:12:44
Oh, well, our flagship product, which we produce quite a bit of carbon 60 and sunflower oil. We have wholesale programs for that. They're all under $100 and they're all basically a 40 or 40-five day supply.

Speaker 2  1:13:01
Okay. Okay. In

Speaker 5  1:13:03
the course of volume, if you buy more volume, you get a discount, or if you set up a wholesale account, you get it for like half price.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:11
Didn't just somebody asked, How do you treat vision?

Speaker 5  1:13:16
Yeah, okay, yeah, I can't see those here.

Bill Clearfield  1:13:20
Okay, so how they want to know how you treat vision. Well,

Speaker 5  1:13:25
people, people take it orally, it goes systemic throughout their entire body. I had somebody with a detached retina, and I actually had someone also with a severed spine. He was a classic, what do you call it? He was paralyzed on one side, he couldn't move, and the other side he couldn't feel, right down the middle of his body. He took the product, and within short order, within a couple weeks, it could have been a couple days. This was long time ago. He can move his fingers for the first time in like 20 years, and they're using carbon nano tubes, which is basically carbon hexagons, like chicken wire, that's kind of rolled up like a tube, and they're using those, they're injecting those into the spine where it's been severed, exercising it a little bit, so these things line up a little bit, and they're getting conductivity and spinal work, so they get they're regaining some feeling and some movement.

Speaker 8  1:14:28
mr. Greska, this is Dr. Dr. Patel calling. I'm a retina specialist. So you said that DTS retina was cured by this medication.

Speaker 5  1:14:40
I'm sorry. What was cured

Benoit Tano  1:14:42
detects

Speaker 5  1:14:46
retina? I can't use the word cured. It helped him regain some sight. Yes, yes,

Speaker 8  1:14:54
without surgery, but just medication.

Speaker 5  1:14:57
Yes, just with applying this product topically and taking it orally, it penetrates the skin so quickly, the skin, the bones, the muscles. It's very, very, very small, like you could put 14 billion of these molecules inside one red blood cell, so they're very, very, very tiny. That's 14 billion with a B, that's a lot of them. So they're extremely tiny, and yeah, it has helped one person that I know of with a detached retina

Speaker 8  1:15:30
had to regain the vision, or

Speaker 5  1:15:33
well, it helped, I don't know if they fully regained, regained it or not, but they said their vision was improving,

Benoit Tano  1:15:41
and I would

Speaker 5  1:15:41
imagine it would, I would fully heal itself, because a carbon 60 would lay down a bed of carbon, in which would be sites for nucleation sites for cells to join on it to attach. So I've seen miraculous stuff with everything else that I've seen happen, and have reported to me, I would believe that, yeah, you know, maybe topical application on the eyelid, you know, I had one company, Hippocrates, down in Florida, they wanted to inject it into, you know, but I said, you know, I'm on the picture there because I don't want to go that way, you know, I don't want to take the liability risk, you know, we got a good thing going, and you don't need to inject it, because it will reach an organ topically on your skin within five minutes.

Speaker 9  1:16:31
Unbelievable. How about glaucoma? For glaucoma, is it good for glaucoma?

Speaker 5  1:16:38
Glaucoma, you're saying

Benoit Tano  1:16:39
yes.

Speaker 5  1:16:40
Yeah, well, I can talk about pressure on the eyeball, and yeah, I had a, I had, I had an interview with a couple of couple brothers, and they were talking about their pressure on their eyeball so much they used the term glaucoma, we had to cut it out, we couldn't use the video or the audio. Yeah, I did that from a hotel room down in Florida when I was out there, and we did the, we did the interview, and it was on a, on a radio show, a pretty popular, or you know, nationwide radio show, but we couldn't, we couldn't, we couldn't republish it, because if we publish it, we're making claims, you know, and if they, if they said pressure in the eyeball every time, we would have been fine, we could have published it, being a dietary supplement, we got to be very careful in what we say, but yes,

Speaker 9  1:17:25
it helped, of course. And how about the ALS and Parkinson?

Speaker 5  1:17:35
Okay, I had somewhat someone with muscle degradation, I'll call it that, and he was going to a chiropractor, which I knew was a friend, a friend of a friend, basically. I was introduced, and he got stronger, and far as I know, and from what they were telling me, that he's the first person in the world that actually got stronger from taking the product, and what was the, what was the other question on what

Speaker 9  1:18:03
Parkinson's, Parkinson's?

Speaker 5  1:18:05
I bet people with muscle disorders, you know, they used to ball up and clench up on the floor, and they used to have, you know, all their muscles would cramp up, they stopped doing that. I had a gentleman with God, he was just flailing all over the place. He couldn't even walk, you know. Hardly, you think he's going to fall over. And he took it three days later. He stopped his movement. He wasn't even moving weight from foot to foot to foot. So I would say it's worth a try. It's not expensive. It's a good supplement. There's no negative, no downside, no toxicity.

Speaker 9  1:18:44
And if we increase the dose, then they, we increase the recovery, or no? I mean, you get a higher, like with increasing the dose, because it doesn't have side effects, so they can drink half the bottle if they want.

Speaker 5  1:19:00
Yeah, they can. It's expensive when you do it that way, but I have a gentleman in New York. He'll drink a half a bottle sometimes, and no, no negative, no downside. I had one chiropractor here locally that's been a long time friend, and he was taking like a half a bottle a day for a couple of weeks, and he said he could actually see the carbon, you know, coming out of his skin. He does what he said he thought he saw. It looked like that. I've had people that take just a regular dose, and they've had an accident when they were in a teenager, and here they're in their 60s, and a piece of glass would pop onto their skin, it would reject it and detoxify the piece of glass out of their skin after taking the carbon 60. Same thing with those people that have those fibers coming out of their skin. I've had people take that and they all, they'll, they'll close up all, they just put it on topically, and they would close up those wounds, they wouldn't be there anymore.

Speaker 9  1:20:04
Wow, one more question I have. Yes, I did one time I attended a conference with Dr. Nixon. He's a PhD in Australia. He had a substock and he invited us, and I think they said, oh, carbon 60 may cause like assembly or some self assembly, is that true?

Speaker 5  1:20:24
Well, if you can build a circuit board by putting it in your body, that's kind of crazy. I don't believe we have reached that technology yet. The people, you know, talking about graphene oxide, which is a sheet of basically chicken wire with the, with the intersections being carbon molecules, you know, and they discovered the carbon 60, the graph, the graphene, graphene by taking some basically something like, like pencil lead, and they would put a piece of scotch tape on it and pull it apart, and they pulled it apart so many times that they pulled off layer by layer by layer of the graphene, so that's how they, that's actually how they discovered graphene is with with scotch tape. So I

Speaker 10  1:21:20
have a quick question. Is there any similarity in the action of this carbon 60 to using methylene blue? You mentioned the mitochondria earlier.

Speaker 5  1:21:30
Yeah, I heard about people using methylene blue. I've been told by a few people that I respect a lot to stay away from it, but I don't know that much about it, if it's it works like donating electrons, like an antioxidant, which carbon 60 does, it does other things too. It will take, if you take, like a battery, is like copper and iron, or something like that, two dissimilar metals, you put them in an electrolyte, the same thing happens in your body, the same thing with hydrogen machines, like Brown's gas, and so forth, people breathing the hydrogen gas and oxygen, same thing in your body, because I've been electrolyte, you saw, I don't know if you saw the beginning of it, where I did electrolysis, I studied that, but if you have over two dissimilar metals, like carbon, is very, very much a cathode, very, very much the most cathodic material on the planet, and if you have something, you put it together, it's like something like magnesium or zinc or something like that, you're going to, and you put them in close proximity, they will generate, and I've done this experiment, they will generate more than 1.23 volts, volts, which is enough to separate the water in the electrolyte into oxygen and hydrogen. It'll just, by forming like a battery type effect, so it pulls the anode, which is the magnesium, zinc, or higher metal. It'll pull those apart at a few atoms at a time, so you can increase the dosage of some of your minerals in your body by taking the carbon 60 by them acting as a electro with the electrolyte acting as a battery distributing some of those other minerals in your body on the atomic scale and also giving hydrogen into your body like Brown's gas, and people do

Speaker 3  1:23:22
let me, let me get these a clinical correlation to that. So, methylene blue is a redox agent, and it's also an alternative electrode carrier. So, we use this for the condition called meth hemoglobinemia, and it donates electrons, and then converts meth hemoglobin hemoglobin to hemoglobin, thus restoring oxygen carrying capacity, so it overlaps with with the carriers being a carer, also with C 60, and it also, but one of the things that the highlights of methylene blue, it actually passes electrons through the electron transport chain, so thus again increasing production of energy, and also lowering down the production of reactive oxygen species, so that there's some overlap with the function, but with C 61, of the bigger eye catchers with this one is I call this a free radical sponge, because it's actually it's unstable, I mean, molecule meaning free radicals, we know are unstable electron molecules, and when they, I guess, they get neutralized by C 60. C 60 does not get unstable by itself, it stays stable, and that's why it does mimic like the enzymes like SOD, and even other, I guess, antioxidant enzymes that we have, and that's why it also is pretty good, as mentioned by Bob here, that it crosses the blood brain barrier, so it crosses so many barriers because of the smallest particle that it is, it has that ability, and and that's why it's something that is different, because when you talk about how do you compare this basically to other antioxidants, so the thing with antioxidants, such as vitamin C, vitamin E, glutathione, so they donate basically electrons to a free radical, and this neutralizes that free radical, and the problem there is, as they give it away, now they lose their own electron, thus there's a possibility for them to become unstable now and become a prooxidant, and this is this again recycled by our own system through glutathione pathways, and and the problem there is with with this possibility to happen likely to us, this happens a lot when people are toxic, so a good example for you is when you do high dose vitamin C, and you have a lot of iron in your, in your system, you now become, you now turn your vitamin C in a oxidative, I guess, effect to this to your body, but this does not happen with C 60, so C 60 can handle all of these absorption, that's why it's a sponge and not be a risk to be a pro-oxidative material that will destroy other things in the body

Speaker 5  1:26:10
for explanation,

Speaker 9  1:26:12
yeah, but some, some of the, this is some of the treatments that require the proxidant effect, like a zone and hard to see for cancer, that is right.

Speaker 3  1:26:24
The problem here is again, so for people who are giving high dose vitamin C in their practices, we always know that we need to check iron levels here, because when you do that, you will now give this opportunity to increase oxidative stress to the system, and, and the thing there is, if it's a different conversation when you have cancer, but it's now a different conversation if you don't have cancer, and you actually have, because it's not only cancer that you do high dose vitamin C on, so really, again, knowing the terrain where you're going to give a therapy to is very important in order for you not to, not to have an issue. Another example for you would be the beta carotene intake in relation to smokers leading to higher cancer risks, and this is for that same reason, because the beta carotene gets again oxidized by smoking and now becomes a carcinogen for lung cancer as a risk factor,

Speaker 9  1:27:24
if you give it a beta carotene inhalation.

Speaker 3  1:27:28
No, no, this is supplements. So, there are studies that it's not recommended for maintenance of using beta carotene for patients who have lung cancer, or smokers, not lung cancer, but chronic smokers should not be taking better care or vitamin A supplementation because of the higher risk of lung cancer production,

Speaker 9  1:27:49
but but the doctor who came to the conference of Dr. Clearfield in December, the one that was from John Hopkins, and he talked about vitamin C, he said that any disease can be cured with vitamin C, because it's a redox molecule, and given thing takes electrons.

Speaker 3  1:28:07
Oh, yeah, I remember. She's the Dr. Bill, that's the Levy group,

Speaker 9  1:28:13
Dr. Levy. Yes,

Speaker 5  1:28:15
let me make a comment. Carbon 60 was tested in comparison to vitamin C, and they were tested, it, that's what my competitor products, which are very large chunks, and they tested it, and it came out to be 172 times more potent than vitamin C. Now our product, being so much smaller in size, you know, it's probably 1000 times or 10,000 times more potent than vitamin C,

Speaker 3  1:28:44
right. And then going back, but to Nelson to that theory of Dr. Levy, definitely there's truth behind what he says. It's just that sometimes also we, in our own approaches as clinicians, we have to understand our individual or individualized our therapies to our patients, for it's not like I don't, for me it's not a Swiss Army knife to use high dose vitamin C for patients. An example for you would be, again, he did mention about the renal stone theory, right, production of stones. The thing there is, there are really no studies about that, as I've been trying to look for it, but as the scare of this thought to our patients, they become hesitant to this specific therapy, so that's why again, there's a time and place for specific uses of therapies. For me, it's just using everything as can fix all be all, as us, especially us clinicians, it's going to be a hard sell for us to do that without clinical evidence,

Speaker 9  1:29:48
and also AstraZante, and I see Dr. Mercola always says that it's 6000 6000 times more potent than vitamin C, the AstraZeneca.

Speaker 3  1:29:58
Yeah, I've heard of that, I haven't done much research on NASA Sam Tine, but I heard good things about its

Speaker 9  1:30:06
10,000 more potent than vitamin C, or how many times

Speaker 5  1:30:11
I would guess 1000 to 10,000 times our product, our methodology, because my competitors, they filter out the large aglamerates with a 22 nanometer, a 220 nanometer filter, so they don't break when they mix it for two weeks. All the pieces do not break down into small size, and the better companies out there will filter out the chunks, but they're held together with the solvent residues that are in there, as you seem like mud dry and mud crack when it gets to like a peanut butter consistency, and then evaporates off all the moisture comes away from this particle and causes the cracking, and that's how they're getting their large chunks of carbon 60 aggregated crystals.

Speaker 3  1:30:59
Bob, you, there's a study that's worth mentioning about C 60. This is the 2020 2020 12 study done in University of Paris, and this is in relation to the C 60 was added into olive oil and was given to Worcester rats, and again, Worcester rats are basically sickly rats, and they're prone to have cancers, tumors, but for this, this population, where it was given 90% of them, basically it was not toxic to them, and even tumors got reduced by by using it in this specific type of rats, and even other, again, mouse studies, there's a lot of mouse studies about C C 60, and even showed like a lifespan increase, and even prevention of cognitive decline. So that's why it's really going to be interesting. Hopefully, in the future, there could be some human studies for this, and human trials

Speaker 5  1:32:00
with the laboratory rats, they gave it to them, and it doubled their lifespan. They actually lived 90% longer, and none of the rats taking the carbon 60 had tumors, and the study was trying to find the DLD 50, the lethal dose 50, where 50% of the population would die, and they could never reach an upper limit. There was no toxicity threshold to the carbon 60, and we have one more, and there's a lot of studies out there now that carbon 60 will stop the metastasis of cancer. Now, I can say that because there's a peer-reviewed published study out there, and we have many of those listed on our website.

Speaker 9  1:32:43
Wow, that's amazing. But if they give them higher dose, like two mice, they live even longer. Can they live 200% their lifespan if they get more C 60?

Speaker 5  1:32:56
I would not think so. I don't know. They haven't tested it, you know. And unfortunately, there's not been many human trials. I think we did the only one. I'm a living proof. I've taken carbon 60 longer than anybody on the planet, you know. I started, I started in my laboratory 2012 and let me, let me tell you this story, because I was making the carbon 60 powder, and but it's so small, I couldn't contain it, and it filled up the room with this black cloud, and I was inhaling it through my mouth, going into my lungs and into my body. I must have inhaled what I consider like a couple 100 bottles of my product, which is 45 days a bottle, so 1000s, you know, several 1000 days worth of my products every 1000 doses, and excuse me, but my, my stools were black charcoal briquette looking for three days, so I know it comes out and goes out to GI tract. I had no negative, no downside. I felt like a cleansing in my body, but that's only my feeling. It's not really scientific evidence, but I had no side effects, except for the black stools, and just for three days, and that was

Speaker 9  1:34:12
it.

Speaker 5  1:34:12
And that's when I discovered that the process that I was producing is non-toxic, not like.. and I realized that all these other companies use a solvent extraction technique, and so that's when I started a supplement business, and, and subsequently had 100 companies copycat me, and now there's about 50 left, 50 of them fall into the wayside, but they've been all they all use the industrial grade carbon 60, which are solves.

Speaker 9  1:34:37
Wow, that's amazing. I remember people that work in mine, that those people that miners, that they work in mine, they come all black because of they are exposed to that carbon, like, but that it's different than this, that it's completely different, because those people, they get lung problems.

Speaker 5  1:34:59
Yeah, that's completely different. It's a different particle size. Even my competitor products, with the larger particulate size, they have found them in mice trapped in the liver, the nephrons of the kidneys, and also in the liver. So they're pretty large. So having a small, small, small, small particle size, it makes all the difference in the world, plus the bioavailability that it has.

Speaker 9  1:35:25
Yeah, and probably those were not like shaped like this ball. No, no, they're

Speaker 5  1:35:29
irregular shaped, they're square, they're round, they're jagged, they're all kinds of shapes, but they're not spherical, they're like broken cleft crystals, like broken charts of glass or quartz or something, that broken thick crystal in nature. When I was at the University of the Colorado School of Mines, and I brought my carbon 60 powder and like six different other ones up there from different manufactures of carbon 60 to have them look underneath the microscope on the transmission electron microscope, or was it scanning anyways, the higher power one, and they looked at it, and they said, yeah, your carbon 60 is non-crystal, and all these others are crystal, and, and I go, I thought at that point I didn't have carbon 60, but finding out that when they have the solvents in there, they use the toluene, and toluene has trace amounts of toxicity in it, like paraffins going up the cracking tower. If you're familiar with that, when they separate all the other height, the hexane, the toluene, the paint thinner, the lack of the gasoline during that main flu, flume going up there, it'll carry a trace amount of paraffins, and when we've taken toluene itself and put a pan of it, two quarts of it, and simmered it on outside, and what's left is paraffin, you know, not much, you know, a couple thumbnail size worth worth of paraffin, that's about what's left in a couple quarts, but when that, when that liquid goes from a very fluid liquid with paraffin throughout it, and then it condenses, and it goes into like a maple syrup consistency, and then a peanut butter, and then well, then a honey consistency, and then a crystalline honey, that's when it pulls all the particles together and sticks them together, and that's the problem with the industrial grade, using that for a supplement, it's they're all stuck together in a crystalline form,

Speaker 9  1:37:35
very, very interesting, very, that's amazing, that's amazing to be able to treat the hearing loss and eye problem, or to get some improvement. Yeah, I let's

Speaker 5  1:37:48
eye problems, skin problems, knee problems. I mean, we've tried it, everybody has tried. I get a call, at least one call every day, somebody calling me up, or several, a couple telling me, "I've tried your product for this, and it works. They said, I thank you, mr. I get people thanking me all over the place.

Speaker 9  1:38:07
And how about bacteria? Does it kill bacteria? Bacteria's too, or only the viruses?

Speaker 5  1:38:13
I don't think it's antibacterial, but I've heard some people say that it was, but I haven't. I have not seen any bacterial, you know, bacteria is an organism itself, you know, it would thrive on carbon 60, it's small enough to get into any bacteria, so I think the bacteria would possibly, you know, live, it's not going to hurt, it's not a toxin to the bacteria, it's not a toxin to anything, do

Speaker 4  1:38:42
say Bob Adam Crouch. Here, just want to tell you, your product's been great. All my kids' families have a couple bottles available around their house at all times. Used it on bites, sunburns. One terrific one was my daughter-in-law had to pick up a 12 inch heavy, two inch deep cast iron pan that was on the stove that got bumped and went headed to a little kid on the floor, and she grabbed the handle, obviously she severely burned her hand. She called me, I told her to get the carbon 60 and spray it on liberally, you know, when it dries, which will be shortly, keep spraying it, use it all through the evening, and ultimately the redness subsided. The pain, you know, obviously was painful, but the pain continued to subside, such that she could finally go to sleep. When she woke up in the morning, it was gone, and she never blistered.

Speaker 5  1:39:38
Yeah, so that's. I've heard that story many times.

Speaker 4  1:39:41
Yeah, it's fantastic. Use it on wounds, post operative stuff, pain, the whole deal. So I keep it around all the time.

Speaker 5  1:39:50
Yeah, on a wound, you want to let it to close up a little bit, like a couple days later. Yeah, that's when we seem, because if you put it on, even the sunflow, if you put it on there, it's going to keep it too soft and supple, and it doesn't have a chance to dry out, so we, we tell me, put it on a couple days later, but yeah. Thank you for that. That's, we got burn victims next day, nothing gone, you know, second degree burns gone, no, no blister, no nothing, no nothing.

Speaker 4  1:40:17
Yeah, this this wound thing, and I was just mentioned briefly, it was just, it was a several days after post quadriceps tear repair, and then it was available and open, and, and it could be sprayed on, you know, no problem.

Speaker 5  1:40:30
Thanks. Thank you.

Speaker 4  1:40:32
Yep.

Bill Clearfield  1:40:34
Okay. Did we talk about there's questions about maximum doses, overdoses, things like that? Well, I

Speaker 5  1:40:41
can briefly touch on that. There is no overdose in it. It would just pass through your body like an unused vitamin. I'd like I said, have people taking, drinking, you know, had bottles of it, a bottle a day, and with no negative, no downside. You're just wasting it at that point. I mean, in each serving size, which is an eighth of a teaspoon, you're getting out, gosh, again, like a quadrillion carbon 60 molecules of these, these small tiny spheres, so you're getting a lot of them, and enough, I think, for every every third cell in your body would have a carbon 60 molecule available to

Benoit Tano  1:41:22
it,

Speaker 5  1:41:23
so taking it, you know, taking it twice a day is better. It's more, it's better to take it more frequently than more of it, but I, you know, I say three times a day would be my maximum guess, because your body works, you eat in cycles, you sleep in cycles, you go in the bathroom recycles, your body works in cycles, so that's why I think would be, you know, the best, the best would be, and that's only, you know, my gut feel of what I think. We've never done any studies. We have done studies with higher doses, we made, we upped the concentration, gave it to a dozen of our long-term customers that knew how it worked. I said, "What do you think? You know, this has less carbon in it. This has more in it. And they tested, and he came back and said, 'No, your original product or what you have right now is spot on. That works the best. You know, there's no benefit from putting too much

Bill Clearfield  1:42:15
right. Okay, I'm just asking the questions here. Have you used it on toenail fungus? There you go.

Speaker 5  1:42:23
Yeah, so I've had.. I was on a radio show, the Jeff Friends radio show. We had a guest on there, and he had toenail fungus, and he said, "Gosh, my toenail was black. I put it on my toenail, three hours gone. It looked like a kid's toenail, and the guest, Jeff, Jeff Friends, is his radio show, he had the same situation, so the next time I was on, he said, "You remember that gentleman that had the toenail fungus? He said, "I had the same thing on my toe. I put it on my toenail three hours, it was gone, it looked clear, normal, like a regular toenail. There was no black on it. I said, "I'll be, and I said, "I had a black racing stripe down my big toe on my left foot for 20 years, and I put it on there. I didn't notice it in three hours, but the next morning I woke up, it looked like a kid's toenail, clear and fine. And on a similar note, I had a lady, and she was in Bakersfield, California. She did colonics, where they flush the bottom up with water, and she put the carbon 60 in the water, and flushed out the bottom, and all the fungus would come out in one treatment of colonics, versus going back four times to get the fungus removed. So, I don't know how that works, but that was putting the oil product, the sunflower oil, in the water, and of course, well, and water does mix, but it still did a trick.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:47
There's a question about carbon 60 in cancer patients. Any issues? Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:43:53
we've seen a lot of people with mutated cells, and there's peer-reviewed published articles on our website that show that carbon 60, especially the water product, has been beneficial with cancer studies, and all those studies, though, are in mice. There's none in humans, but they're all in mice and rats, and you know, by, you know, mammals, and they're all, they're all very positive, showing that, and the water product is different. Our product is not hydroxylated. We don't add O-H groups onto it, which chemically modifies the carbon 60 molecule. We just mix it in water, and I figured out a process to do that, and it's a process, and it's not an easy process to do. It's a little, you got to hit every, every, you know, there's, there's a few steps you got to make sure every one of them is just right to make it work, and so ours is just carbon 60 surrounded by water, and so in the water products, even the hydroxylated have shown very good promise with cancer, and it's the water product, so much easier to use too, you just spray it on, it dries in five minutes, you're done. The oil product, you love it, rub it on topically, you'll be oily for, you know, a couple hours, or, you know, half hour, or something like that, depending upon how dry your skin is. And, but the sunflower product has a lot of vitamin E in it, so it's been beneficial for your skin, so this, but it's all good

Bill Clearfield  1:45:23
question about becoming a wholesaler as a practitioner. Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:45:27
yeah, call us up or get on the website and go to the top banner, and it'll say, I think, shop now, and it'll say wholesale, or you can register as a wholesaler, or give us a call, we'll walk you through it, or sign you up.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:43
Okay. All right. Good stuff. Dr. Narrow, got anything online? Any questions?

Speaker 5  1:45:51
I think just he answered everything pretty good. Bob, what's the future for C 60? Well, the future is C 60. I think it's going to grow. I mean, the more people that become aware of it, the reason it has not grown is because of these 50 companies that make carbon 6049, of them use the solvents in the beginning of their process. Some of them clean it up better than others, but that still builds up the toxicity, so that has kind of not had the market explode, because everybody says, "Oh, carbon 60, I've tried it, I don't have a problem. I had a gal that was using one of my competitive products, she had a leaking gut, and she said with this other product, her and her husband took it for a month, and they sat in the toilet, they had diarrhea, because of the most likely because of the solvents in it. She stopped taking that product, and a couple of days later she started taking my product. She even picture proof of her stomach lining, the little lakes they look like in there. 80% closed up in about two weeks, and there was she had a video of that showing the pictures of her inside of her stomach,

Speaker 3  1:47:08
but does it mean that I don't know if this is applicable to C 60. The more expensive it is, the better the product, or not really.

Speaker 5  1:47:18
We have by far the best product on the market, and we keep the prices down because we want to help people, and we do everything in house. We convert the carbon, we blend it into liquid, the oil, water, or whatever. We bottle it, we label it, we ship it. We do everything in house. My competitors, when I started working, I had one of my competitors, he worked for me, and I had him sign a non-disclosure, non-compete, but he started his own company with Carbon 60, and he bought the cheapest solvent, extracted stuff, and it's purple, he has, you know, could, because carbon 60 with solvent, and it expands the bond lines, changes the lattice structure, so it affects the wavelength of purple, and they use that as a benchmark, they say, oh yeah, if it's purple, is that's because it has solvents in it, but true, carbon 60 without any solvents is black. We took our carbon 60 powder, put it into solvent again. We thought we didn't have carbon 60 because it didn't turn purple. I left the bottle in my car in the console, and it sat in a hot and cold, the sun for like 20 days in Colorado. Here we have high temperatures in low temperatures, a swing quite a bit, but that cycling caused it to get in the toluene to get into the carbon 60 molecule and saturate it and turn purple. See, all the, all my competitors' products are pre-saturated with Carbo toluene, because they're made with that, they'd use that in the extraction process, even a sublimated has trace amounts of toluene, even big companies like Sigma Aldridge, and so forth, like that, they'll admit there are still trace solvents in it. My competitor, one of my big ones out there, he didn't start taking his own product until 2018 because he knew it was solvent produced, they cleaned it up more so, and he said, finally started taking it himself in 2018 and we started selling it as a supplement in 2013

Speaker 4  1:49:14
Say, Bob, one last question, have you learned anything as far as using carbon 60 for atrial fib, no. Okay, just curious.

Speaker 5  1:49:28
No, I have not. I don't know. I mean, we've had athletes and muscles improve their performance to the point initially we had athletes taking it and the muscles would fire stronger, but they were stretching out their tendons and ligaments, because the muscles were so strong, they were pulling on everything so much, so they had to back off a little bit and work their way into it. I had a hockey player, he was taking it, and he said within a month he could do 15% more reps and 15% more weight in his routine.

Benoit Tano  1:50:05
Bob can need help cognitive decline.

Speaker 5  1:50:11
Say that again,

Benoit Tano  1:50:13
can be C 60 help cognitive decline, like dementia and all this stuff.

Speaker 5  1:50:19
Yes, there are peer-reviewed published. One came out in 2022 and one came out in 225 showing that carbon 60 does help the cognitive decline. Those papers are published. If you look up carbon 60 and cognitive decline, Google search, you will find it. If not, I'll find it again for you. If you have some difficulty, but that's that's the second most thing, the first most reported thing people report is more energy, because their cells are firing now. In four days, 95% approximately 95% of the people report they have more energy. In eight to 10 days, people report about 80% of the people in eight to 10 days report they have clarity of mind, they can think better, they can function better. I have a good friend of mine, their mom had dementia, and she remembered to take the carbon 60 product, but she forgot to take her meds. She goes, what is this stuff? Why is, you know, she was had an interest in it, she could remember to take the carbon 60, but she forgot her meds every day.

Benoit Tano  1:51:24
One other thing is, you have several lines. How does anyone get to know which does what? Because I'm not sure how many lines we have already, and how do you use all of them?

Speaker 5  1:51:42
You mean the product lines we have, sunflower oil? Is that what you mean? Olive oil? Why?

Benoit Tano  1:51:49
Yeah,

Speaker 5  1:51:50
they all work. They're just a different carrier. Some people like the taste of olive oil. We like, I personally like sunflower oil because it has no taste, but the high polyphenol content in the olive oil gives you that peppery burn in your back of the throat. And at the beginning, people were in the rat study, in the body study, they call it, back in 2012 when it was released by the University of Paris in France by Dr. Fati Musa. When he released that, he used olive oil, but he used fresh olive oil from the region, you know. The olive oil we get here is shipped overseas, spends a month in a shipping container at 110 degrees, and is partially already rested by the time it gets here. And they also adulterated it, and by adding canola oil or something, if it's 20% olive oil, you can call it olive oil, and, but it's, it's not so, but, but we found a really good quality olive oil that we get from California, and it's really good, but so it doesn't, it's matter of taste, the water has no taste, the water, if you spray it, if you spray the water in your mouth, it tastes like water, but much cleaner, if you can imagine that, you know, because the carbon, carbons, natural detoxifier, carbon water filters, the activated charcoal, there's three, there's three methods, if you have a sponge that will absorb a toxin, I mean, excuse me, absorb like a sponge will soak it up, activated charcoal will have a magnetic static charge to it, so it will adsorb a toxin, not absorb, but adsorb, and stick to it. Carbon 60 works in a similar way, but it will give an electron to the toxin to neutralize it, and then it has no more charge or affinity, and it passes out your GI tract.

Benoit Tano  1:53:39
Now, for the I issues, does the cosmetic one that you have also have the same way, or do you have to ingest it, or how

Speaker 5  1:53:53
the cosmetic one is meant for topical? We don't break all the other products you can eat, put on your skin, it doesn't matter, the cosmetic product we recommended for topically on the skin only. It's not really a digestible. It's not going to hurt you if you drink the whole bottle, but maybe if you drank three bottles, you might get sick. I don't know, but we don't recommend it. It's not really meant for an ingestible, it's just meant for a topical for your skin. It's squalene oil. It's not squalene. Squalene is derived from shark liver. Squalane is derived from fermented sugar cane, and that's produced in a ferment it in Brazil. They ship it to the United States, they filter it, get all the particulates out of it, or dirt, and then they bottle it, and we buy it that in that way here.

Benoit Tano  1:54:40
So, what I mean is, if you put on your eyelids, for instance, the cosmetic one, could it have an effect on the eye? Like, yeah, the

Speaker 5  1:54:50
carbon 60 particles are small enough to go through your skin. We'd like the water product for that, because when the water evaporates, you can imagine you just spray it on, you missed it on about five inches away, and you missed it on your skin, and those little micro bubbles of water hemispheres land on your skin, and as the water, you don't want to rub it in, just let it evaporate. If you rub it in, you make a puddle, it takes longer to evaporate, but if you just let those little micro bubbles evaporate, when the water goes away, the carbon goes into the skin, and we do put a smidgen of glycerin in the water product, only to keep it proprietary. That's one of the reasons it gives it a slight tactile feel, but it's only like, like one cc per gallon, it's very little, and, but basically, it keeps our product proprietary, because if people got our product, then they remove the water by evaporation, they'd be left with the carbon 60 powder, and we don't want people to have that, because they would make up some hokey tests and publish, you know, we just keep our sub proprietary

Bill Clearfield  1:56:06
question about have you ever tested absorption by combining it with DMSO.

Speaker 5  1:56:13
We have used it with DMSO, did not see any increase into absorption of it. You don't need it, the particles are so small that it goes right through the skin. We just saw no benefit, and the risk of using DMSO for bringing bacteria and other things in your body, it's just not worth it. And you don't need it, and it's, you know, but yeah, we have mixed it with DMSO and tried it and saw no improvement.

Speaker 3  1:56:39
Okay,

Speaker 9  1:56:41
I have a question. One more question, if don't mind. If you don't mind, I want to ask, so this is 60. It absorbs, it gives up electrons, and then it remains stables, but then it's being eliminated from the body. How long it stays in the body, the half life

Speaker 5  1:57:03
we suspect most of it will be eliminated in the body in about 10 days, but some of it will linger longer than that, but you know, not to any point. I've taken it for since 2012 I've been exposed to it, or taking the product, and I feel younger. I look younger, you know, and all that kind of stuff. And I have more energy. If I stop taking it, it takes about two weeks, and I'll revert to my old self. I'll feel tired, I'll feel sluggish. You know, people that take the product, they don't get sick either. We've seen a lot of that

Speaker 9  1:57:42
generate the mitochondria. Does it? Because it's more mitochondria to produce more mitochondria in the cells.

Speaker 5  1:57:50
Does it produce more mitochondria? No, it's small enough to get into the mitochondria to neutralize the free radicals generated by the mitochondria.

Speaker 9  1:58:01
Also, it prevents the death of my to mitochondria. Well,

Speaker 5  1:58:05
if you look at it this way, free radicals cause the cell to die, and if you have fewer free radicals, you extend the life of the cell, and and then you use less telomere to regenerate new cells, so we have not had telomere testing done. I've been approached by them to test a telomere, but I find some of those tests are, so I don't know, I, we never had it tested for telemetry test, so, but I'm sure your telomere, there's some people claiming that it regrows your telomere, makes it longer, but I don't believe that. I don't know. I don't believe that

Speaker 9  1:58:47
it also improves the immune system. Is it on the immune system?

Speaker 5  1:58:52
People have told me that, yes, yes, yeah, yeah. There are people that have problems like that have stated that their immune system has been stronger. Well, it turns look at this: your glands, your secretions, all your things that are not working properly because of the free radicals ripping through those cells. You turn those cells back on by eliminating the oxidative stress of the other distilling of a molecule of an electron from molecule to molecule to molecule that inhibits the cells function, you get rid of that, that cell now functions properly, all your glands and secretions are picked up and they work better.

Speaker 9  1:59:38
Yeah, that's amazing. Yeah, I knew the C 60 is very good. I heard about a few years ago, but

Speaker 8  1:59:46
no,

Speaker 9  1:59:47
I think Boston BioLife - they also have had classes about C 60 and Health Health Expert Alliance. I had. did you talk to a Health Expert Alliance,

Speaker 5  2:00:04
I have not talked to them, no,

Speaker 9  2:00:06
because they have a speaker about C 60 there too.

Speaker 5  2:00:10
Okay,

Speaker 9  2:00:11
with Dr. Johns,

Speaker 5  2:00:18
we've sent our, we've sent our carbon 60 over to now the carbon 60 was first discovered in 85 in a laboratory, but it was discovered before that in Shungite. Shungite is found in Corellia, Russia, which is, you know, you got Finland, Sweden, Norway, and then the body of water, and then Russia. It's right there, that's where Corellia is, and that's where media struck a long, long time ago, through all the organics up into a fireball that came back down to the earth. Some of it reformulated into shungite, and it was kept a cold war secret. And also, during World War Two, it was kept a secret, but they used to send sick people up there drinking the water that naturally flowed through the Shungite, and having healing issues going on. There was a book published in 2014 in Russian. In 2016 it was published in English. I got the book in 2016 and read it from page 15 to page 41 exactly the same experiences I was experiencing, you know, with my product at the time, anecdotally, you know, we were getting the same results that were published in that book. That book is still available. It's called Shungite.

Speaker 9  2:01:33
It's like Shange, I think. I also have the ball here. Is this is this one?

Speaker 5  2:01:44
Yeah, that's most likely Shungite. It looks like it. They make it into balls, they're making in structures. Um, I don't know if you can see, this is, but this is what raw Shungite looks like. It comes as, it looks like a piece of glass that's just been fractured, but they polish it into balls, they make them into slabs, they put it on the back of your cell phone to absorb EMF frequencies. Yeah, the little chips of it, size of a button on a shirt, and then they put that on the back of your back of your cell phone, and people have reported good, good use with that. Good luck with that, or helping them with their EMFs. I've had people that lived next to cell phone tower that got quite a bit of EMFs, and they were going crazy, basically. And they started taking my product, and they didn't move, they stayed in the same location, but they're in the line of a cell phone tower, and close to one. They reported no more EMF problems.

Speaker 9  2:02:47
Wow,

Speaker 5  2:02:48
yeah.

Benoit Tano  2:02:50
Somebody asked for contraindication. Are there any contraindications for taking C 60?

Speaker 5  2:02:57
Any contraindications? No contraindications with any medications or any other supplements or anything like that. People even taken it with chemo, which is a pro-oxidant, and they want to oxidize the cell and kill it, but with carbons, people have even reported better results taking it with chemo. See, when you, when you get radiation damage, they target the tumor, or whatever, and the scatter that comes out around it knocks off free radicals, knocks off electrons, make free radicals. The carbon 60 will neutralize those, so they don't generate and reproduce and cause any more mutated cells.

Speaker 9  2:03:46
Wow, but there is also another thing like this. It's organ on something they said that they make a box, and people stay inside it, and they get healed

Speaker 5  2:04:01
with what Oregon,

Speaker 9  2:04:04
I think it's Oregon, on something like that,

Speaker 5  2:04:07
Ormus,

Speaker 6  2:04:10
I have

Speaker 5  2:04:10
not familiar with that Oregon, I don't know what that is

Speaker 9  2:04:15
about it, but it's something similar to this, or maybe it's this.

Speaker 5  2:04:20
Well, there's been nothing like carbon 60 in the world until recently, because there's nothing that small that gives up electrons that the stable in the body, and it doesn't go away, you know, it doesn't, doesn't cause any problems, no, no contraindications, not without, without product, none, zero, zip. You know, I look for refunds to people that don't like it. They, and the 15 years, we had five people that wanted their money back, and that's because they had diarrhea, because we're very toxic. They didn't like it because of black. They were allergic to sunflower oil, you know, some crazy reasons, nothing serious, I I

Speaker 6  2:05:04
have a comment or another question. So, because of the toxicity that we live in, I mean everybody lives in. Do you think it takes two weeks for you to fill back up again with toxins, and that's why you degenerate back into your other state when you stop for two weeks,

Speaker 5  2:05:24
I don't know. I don't know if that's why the talks, where we have a toxic load in the air, food and water, we can't get away from exactly. I don't care if you eat organic, you're still breathing air, you're still drinking water, exactly some food, and you don't know if your organic food food you get is actually truly organic, or coming next to someone that's using, yeah, you know, toxins. We even had a gentleman with Agent Orange, and Agent Orange is like glyphosate, is very similar, and he cleared up. He said, after from Vietnam to now, he was glad I had a gentleman in Australia. He was a young kid when he was three years old. He run across the floor with his socks, the hardwood floor, and slide and go into the countertop. He hit his head, he had a scar on his forehead for 60 years. He's in his late 60s. He put the carbon 60 on it, it kind of healed over the scab, came off, and it disappeared, and he had like a young skin at that point, and just put another light on it, getting dark out here in Colorado, but, but, but, but it kind of scammed, kind of the scab fell off, and in his forehead, and yeah, after 60 years,

Speaker 6  2:06:46
it also looks like it's cleaning up the plastics, and some of the stuff you're describing. I don't know

Speaker 5  2:06:52
about the plastics, to tell you the truth, I would say not, because plastics are a whole different animal, and they're not really. I don't think so. Nothing like my, my guesstimation. I don't think so.

Speaker 6  2:07:07
Be an interesting way to, if we could figure that one out, wouldn't

Benoit Tano  2:07:11
it?

Speaker 5  2:07:11
That would be nice.

Speaker 9  2:07:13
But how about nano technology?

Speaker 5  2:07:17
Okay, carbon 60 is nano technology. Anything that's underneath 100 nanometers is nano technology, that's what they call it, 100 nanometers and smaller. They get up to 1000 nanometers, it's micron size, and so my.. so yeah, so nano is generally considered 100 nanometers or smaller, and we're at 20 nanometer spheres that we can see underneath the microscope now. We, when we had it tested with the mass spec time of flight, which is basically they shoot electrons at the carbon 60 powder, and by the mass of it in the time of flight, how long it travels, they can tell how many carbon atoms there, and we have that published on our website, you know, showing that it was 60 carbon atoms, you know, say it had a density, the atomic density of 720 as atomic units, which, you know, 12 per carbon times 60 is 720

Benoit Tano  2:08:21
so

Speaker 5  2:08:23
but all the science we publish, we're the only company that publishes everything on our website. We have all the science that backs everything up. Nothing, I don't, I don't go guessing and making things up now. My, we just tell the state the facts, and I'm amazed with this product. I'm the luckiest guy in the world, because I've helped so many people, and it's just a good feeling of doing that, and be able to provide it at a reasonable cost, you know. We sell more products, so we can, we can keep our prices down, and we, you know, I'm a process engineer, and I worked in aerospace carbon, where laboratory is basically a clean room, and you know it is cleaner than you know medical clean when you talk aerospace quality.

Speaker 9  2:09:13
So, because the nano this carbon 60 stays for a total of 10 days in the body, during the 10 days it gives electrons and helps with redox for 10 days, for about 10 days,

Speaker 5  2:09:24
yeah, for about 10 days. When people stop it, they'll see, you know, a degradation. I had somebody email me today, they ran out of carbon 60, and they're feeling sluggish and tired because they stopped using it. They had, they had a couple bottles of it, and they perked up, and I went to Children's Hospital, and I told them what I had, and they basically walked me to the door and said, we don't want people here doing that, we want people in these beds, you know, was pretty, pretty sad when I said, you know, come on, I bet half of the kids would walk out of this hospital, and they said we don't want that. Then, and they had two security guards came and ushered me out the door. Yeah, I started going door to door with this product back in 2013 or 2000 yeah, 2013 and I went to chiropractors and DS and naturopathic, and it started, you know, so here, here's a bottle, try it, and I started selling, you know, a couple bottles, and we put up a website, and I think it was January of 2014 yeah, and we put up a website and started selling it online, and then it grew, and then I got some competitors in there, and people that work for me quit and started their own carbon 60 business. That's why there's a couple of other companies in Colorado and one in Utah. They came out and visited me from Utah, and basically started, you know, making a carbon 60 product, but still, again, using the commercial grade, the industrial grade with its produce with solids.

Speaker 9  2:11:07
Yeah,

Speaker 5  2:11:09
go ahead.

Speaker 9  2:11:09
More, it produces, it helps the mitochondria to make more ATP.

Speaker 5  2:11:18
I don't know if it helps it make more ATP, but it eliminates the waste product, which would be free radicals. When it's generating the ATP, ATP, it would eliminate the free radicals, because that's where most of your free radicals are generated in your mitochondria when it converts food to ATP,

Benoit Tano  2:11:39
so In

Bill Clearfield  2:11:45
all, righty, anybody else have any other questions?

Speaker 9  2:11:52
Yeah, on Google it says yes. C 60 helps. Yes, C 60 is believed to help support and improve cellular energy, while it does not directly create ATP on its own. It plays a supportive role in enhancing how efficiently your mitochondria produce adenosine triphosphate. Yeah, that's that's good, that's good. I mean,

Speaker 5  2:12:24
that's consistent with whether I said, yeah, I think so. Yeah, it will eliminate the free radicals generated on the ATP.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:37
Okay, anybody else having any comments or questions? Great, as always, Bob. Thank you so much.

Speaker 5  2:12:48
Thank you, William. And if anybody has any comments or questions, or, you know, give a call, you know, we basically answer phones from nine to nine in Denver time, although I started getting a bunch of calls at 630 recently, 30 calls between 630 and 9o'clock I answered. So, because it rings up my office and my cell phone at the same time, I got it tricked out. So, when they call the office, I pick it up, and we're getting a lot of East Coasters calling in.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:21
Yeah, they don't, they don't know that, you know, we're no, they

Speaker 5  2:13:25
don't have a concept of time zone

Bill Clearfield  2:13:29
grandkids, though they can't figure out how I call them at 1o'clock here, and there's, I said we're having lunch, he goes, it's dinner time, they can't quite figure that out, so, so, okay, all right. Thank you, thank you, Bob. Thank you, everybody, for being here. We'll be here again next week, same time, same station. I have Dr. Anthony James. He's going to be speaking about what he speaks about, so you know, he does what AI and bias and stuff like that. So, we're going to be hearing for Dr. James that next week, and I will give you - I'll keep you posted on whether we make any progress with IFM, fingers crossed. And if anybody has any conferences coming up, any, anything, anything being published, or well, please let us know, so we can spread the word.

Speaker 9  2:14:24
Yes, there is a conference, a very good conference in cancer. It's an integrative cancer treatment, and I mean, it can be watched online. I think it's about less than $200 for three days, and the workshop can be watched on remotely, it's

Bill Clearfield  2:14:43
a contact for that, or

Speaker 9  2:14:45
yeah, I had it's

Bill Clearfield  2:14:50
running it.

Speaker 9  2:14:51
What? No, it's something that I never.. I think I heard before with B. It starts with beep. It's not like a name that I don't know. I have it in my cell phone, but I don't have the cell phone now. But it's in San Diego. It's Integrative Cancer Conference. It's very good.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:14
When is it

Speaker 9  2:15:15
this weekend?

Bill Clearfield  2:15:16
This weekend. Okay.

Speaker 9  2:15:18
So anyone can watch remotely if they want. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:15:22
all right. Yeah.

Speaker 9  2:15:25
Yes. This one, yes. Exactly.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:27
Beljansky conference,

Speaker 9  2:15:29
Bell Jansky Conference. Is somebody going there? Oh, Dr. Sammons.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:38
Okay, okay. We'll check out the Bill Jansky conference.

Speaker 9  2:15:42
Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:15:45
okay. Thank you all. We'll see you again next week. I'm a little bit behind on getting the videos posted, but I'll get to them. Oh, Dr.

Speaker 3  2:15:54
Bill, we have a conference here in Lake Tahoe too, in 26 to 20 June into Hyatt. It's the Modern Medicine Functional Health and Wellness Symposium, so that's in the Hyatt.

Speaker 9  2:16:07
Oh, what is that? What is that in, in

Benoit Tano  2:16:10
Lake Tahoe Regency? It's

Speaker 9  2:16:14
nice.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:15
Yeah, and who's running this?

Speaker 3  2:16:17
The I think this is what is this company? It's not our usual company for M. It's not AMMG, it's not the big ones.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:30
Are you speaking?

Speaker 3  2:16:32
Yeah, you, you're asking who's running this.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:35
I'm running it.

Speaker 3  2:16:36
No, no, no, no. I don't know. It's not a company that we're dealing with that, we're affiliated with, so the topics are PRP, exosomes, GLP ones, and they also have, remember, you have the Exomined,

Bill Clearfield  2:16:52
right?

Speaker 3  2:16:53
Yeah, they have the Exomined there, and Emcella,

Bill Clearfield  2:16:58
so it's BTS running

Speaker 3  2:17:02
it, oh, that's right. You're right. I think it is. I think it is BTL.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:07
Okay,

Speaker 3  2:17:09
now you know them, right?

Bill Clearfield  2:17:10
I know them all right. Okay,

Speaker 3  2:17:12
so let's not get there, but it's

Bill Clearfield  2:17:17
unfortunately I know them.

Benoit Tano  2:17:18
Yeah, all right. Hey. Hey, our

Speaker 3  2:17:22
research group, you need to tap to tap our research before

Bill Clearfield  2:17:27
we.. what's the name of this conference? It's.. where is it? It's at North Lake

Speaker 3  2:17:33
Hyatt Regency, wherever that

Bill Clearfield  2:17:36
is. It's North Lake.

Benoit Tano  2:17:38
Okay.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:40
All right, we'll check it out. Okay. Thank you all.

Speaker 3  2:17:43
Hey, call our research group. Maybe they have something.

Bill Clearfield  2:17:45
Paul, who

Speaker 3  2:17:46
research group

Bill Clearfield  2:17:48
is, anybody here? I didn't see. I didn't see Dr. Quinn or Dr. Tanner's usually around, right?

Benoit Tano  2:17:55
Yeah, I'm here, but we didn't meet this weekend, so next weekend probably will pick up again,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:03
and I have to get you, call you, having you with Dr. Narrow. We have to get you, Dr. Tanner, to give us a tip of the week on how to use that AI program of yours.

Benoit Tano  2:18:11
Yeah, that would be good. So, I mean, the AI program is open for people who want to experience it and see what it gives. I think it's really awesome. I would, I would say, I mean, not because I did it, but if you want to research any topic, anything you want, you want to do with it, it gives you a really good report. If you do the AI search and put any condition in that AI search, it gives you 10k words, it gives you 30k words and 50k words with a lot of elaborate information,

Bill Clearfield  2:18:50
like I said, I put in, I just put in what is Hashimoto thyroiditis, and it gave me 307 pages in not even 10 minutes, so

Benoit Tano  2:18:59
that's awesome, yep,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:02
so okay.

Speaker 11  2:19:04
By the way, real fast, we will have probably an update on the apothecary starting that in about a week or two.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:12
Let Dr. James know, I'll be, I'll be bugging him this week because he's on next week first. Okay,

Speaker 11  2:19:17
we'll let him know on Saturday, we'll remind him

Bill Clearfield  2:19:21
for that, but let him know ahead of time. Okay, everybody. Thank you all so much. And we will see you again next time, same week, same station. Bob, thank you so much for being with us.

Speaker 3  2:19:33
And thank you.

Bill Clearfield  2:19:34
Talk great, great products. We're happy to have you with us. Okay,

Speaker 5  2:19:39
it's glad to be her,

Bill Clearfield  2:19:41
all right. All right. Good night. Thank you all.

Speaker 3  2:19:44
Bye bye.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai