Unknown Speaker  00:38
Hey Joe

Unknown Speaker  00:48
Hey Joe Hello how's it going?

Bill Clearfield  00:54
Okay, how are you?

Unknown Speaker  00:55
I'm good how was your day?

Bill Clearfield  01:02
You know crazy as always

Unknown Speaker  01:08
I was

Bill Clearfield  01:09
I broke my I broke my pink glasses. I have to find a new pair.

Unknown Speaker  01:14
Oh no.

Bill Clearfield  01:15
I know one of the tragedies of life, right

Unknown Speaker  01:19
Amen.

Bill Clearfield  01:22
So, okay, so we have Dr. Gertz tonight we should be should be pretty good yeah,

Unknown Speaker  01:28
Agree. Agree.

Bill Clearfield  01:31
We like her a lot.

Unknown Speaker  01:32
She's pretty intense.

Bill Clearfield  01:33
Now. What are you up to?

Speaker 1  01:38
I much for watching New York Mets and the Milwaukee Brewers.

Bill Clearfield  01:43
And what you're watching what

Speaker 1  01:45
New York Mets the Milwaukee Brewers

Bill Clearfield  01:49
watching baseball. Yeah, we sure are. Okay. You know, me and baseball. I have PTSD. I can't sit and watch it. I started to shake.

Speaker 1  02:02
Yeah, we kind of don't have a choice. So it's okay.

Bill Clearfield  02:06
I mean, you don't have a choice.

Speaker 1  02:07
I mean, New York Mets are doing well. We don't have no TV. So we you know, we watch what Louise puts on. New York Mets or when in 888 to four Milwaukee's got four so not bad. Very good. Good game I

Unknown Speaker  02:31
want to say hi, Dad.

Bill Clearfield  02:33
Hi, dad. Oh, there he's got his hat on and everything. Hey. Where are you?

Unknown Speaker  02:42
We're at Louise. Louise. Okay. You betcha.

Bill Clearfield  02:53
So all right, so that's all I uploaded one of those videos and made to YouTube and of course, I forgot that the music in the background which you can barely hear is copyrighted by somebody. So I got my hand slapped again.

Unknown Speaker  03:12
Oh

Bill Clearfield  03:15
completely forgot all about it.

Unknown Speaker  03:20
Yeah, well. A slap is better than a lawsuit right?

Bill Clearfield  03:27
Yeah. Yeah. over nothing. So that's funny. So so thank you for coming. If you're new to us. We usually start right about five o'clock our time which is eight o'clock and Eastern. I see we have some folks from Florida here. And of course I think it's eight in the morning in the Philippines. So we just hang out, say hello. meet some new friends, meet some old friends. Anybody have Dr. Tanto? Dr. Hartman, you're going to be on with us for an hour before you click off like you usually do. So, next week, I need you for the whole time though, you know, so you better plan on it. I have you next week.

Unknown Speaker  04:22
I'll be there. Okay.

Speaker 1  04:27
Stefan Your. Your survival class was off the charts. That one press Yeah, that was in say. Wow, we really

Bill Clearfield  04:40
affected by the hurricane down there.

Speaker 2  04:42
Now we just got some winds like 3040 mile per hour winds.

Speaker 1  04:46
Right now, Doc, yeah, he had a survival class that included all the medicines that are absolutely important in case of, you know, shit hit the fan. It was it was pretty wild. And it's

Bill Clearfield  05:02
like, sounds like like a Tuesday night presentation for me.

Speaker 2  05:08
That one instead of the fatty liver disease. I could do either one. I think that's actually

Speaker 1  05:12
do it. I think you should do it and keep the gun on your, you know, keep the gun on. I just got my concealed weapons permit here in Nevada, and I'm waiting for it to come through. And I was like, Dude, he's got a gun on I was like, Oh, I was like so impressed. Yeah,

Speaker 2  05:32
you can carry a gun in your office this year. The business owner? Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  05:37
exactly.

Bill Clearfield  05:38
Okay. Somebody have to deal with Smith and Wesson.

Unknown Speaker  05:45
I don't use their products I use different

Speaker 1  05:50
Yeah, yeah. Agree. Agree. But

Unknown Speaker  05:53
yeah, if you want post apocalypse lecture, I can do that.

Bill Clearfield  05:56
Yeah, I think they think they think that the I think we're closer to the apocalypse than ever now. Right?

Speaker 2  06:02
I mean, it's crazy. How quick can happen North Carolina mean overnight. Apocalypse.

Speaker 1  06:07
Right. Agree. Agree and you know, you never you know, you never all you got to do is pack up a backpack. You got to have like you just like you had your backpack. Yours was more medical have a backpack? Yes. Most of us out here need just a regular backpack. Just yeah, I'm going to redefine

Speaker 2  06:37
put together a second backpack. That'll be part of my next lecture, but I can give it for you guys. And it will have survival, basic medical and medical just basic survival tools.

Unknown Speaker  06:51
Agree. Agree?

Unknown Speaker  06:53
Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  06:56
Okay, so it's five o'clock, but I don't see our lecture on here yet. So she's under a different name. Dr. Gersh Are you here?

Unknown Speaker  07:08
figured she I figured she's a little busy.

Unknown Speaker  07:11
Where is the Gersh

Unknown Speaker  07:13
Amen.

Bill Clearfield  07:15
That otherwise, then you get me because I got lots of questions for So tonight's lecture is deposed is going to be by Felice Gersh and she's one of our integrative OBGYN she's very prolific on Instagram to every Thursday night. She has a video that she does for about 2030 minutes geared more towards patients than then practitioners and she's got some interesting ideas about how to handle post menopausal issues. We're going to talk about things like cycling hormones instead of straight hormones and we're going to talk about hormones after breast cancer and we'll talk about that. hormones and anything anything you want to ask.

Speaker 2  08:15
I think good. I want you to challenge her on why she wants to cycle hormones.

Bill Clearfield  08:20
Yeah, I actually asked a few of my patients what they thought about that and I mean universally it's it that's a thumbs down. And you guys you know you young guys, you brought me kicking and screaming into the 2020s with my my treatment protocols you have you have you have rectum all you got me not not blocking estrogens now good. And you know how you know how that grates against me. So when we first started doing them, so those of you don't know me, so mine if you're new. So I'm Bill Clearfield. I am the Executive Director of the American Osteopathic Society of integrative medicine. And I've been doing hormone replacement therapy for 25 years. We first started out doing very high doses we really didn't have much to go on. And you know we just basically the gym rats is what is who we modeled it after. So for guys, we would get testosterone levels to 1500 and then we would give him estrogen blockers to get it down to zero. I mean that was that was the protocol and DHEA so my my first exposure was a Neil Rosie a was Dr. Rosie a and he has he's got an attitude for one thing. Joe you want to take over I'm gonna see if I can find find out where our speaker is. I'm hoping that she's not lost. Okay

Unknown Speaker  09:50
yeah. Sounds good

Bill Clearfield  10:03
okay

Bill Clearfield  10:13
so

Bill Clearfield  10:25
last K so

Bill Clearfield  10:37
and

Unknown Speaker  10:42
I'm sure she'll get here. Yeah, I know. I can only imagine how busy she is.

Speaker 3  11:00
Tourville while you're on it, maybe I can entertain our crowd

Bill Clearfield  11:03
is pleased

Unknown Speaker  11:05
she came in. She's she's here.

Bill Clearfield  11:07
Okay, go ahead. Dr. Nereo.

Speaker 3  11:10
Yeah, so in the past weekend, I was in the integrative dermatology symposium. So there's newer things that we found out about dermatology. And one of the things that I discovered there is actually the effects of visible light. So for whom you for people who doesn't know what visible light is visible light is the exposures of our skin to electronics and also the lights around our houses. And current studies have been showing that it actually is been causing DNA damage and oxidative stress that actually can lead to precancerous lesions. So one of the bigger things that they introduced in that conference is actually zinc oxide, and also iron oxide. So this is not this is not the ones that we see in the stores. Right now. But this is called pigmented zinc oxide and iron oxide. So this is something that you probably want to now it's recommended to be used almost every day for the reason that we are always exposed to these electronic devices, computers, iPhones, iPads, and applying that daily is something that they're recommending. So it was something that was just astounding to me. And remember this IDs conference that you went to here and you were kind of bashing the vitamin D guy. You remember that and it wasn't bashing

Bill Clearfield  12:32
the vitamin D guy the guy said he said, you have to say so so so the vitamin D, I got up two weeks after AOA told us that we were not scientific and when we exactly we calculate the vitamin D levels that we want, I mean to the to the to the nth degree. And the the vitamin D guide and the dermatology conference last year said well, we give them 1000 units or 2000 units, whatever you feel like,

Speaker 3  13:02
right? That vitamin D guy is there and he's seeing a different two now. So he probably want to make sure you hear about him and how he's kind of singing a different tune.

Bill Clearfield  13:15
What's his tune is to now was What did vitamin D doesn't matter?

Speaker 3  13:18
Yeah, from 1000 to 2000 and said no no, he's he's actually saying that vitamin D is significant now and he didn't mention about his his I guess, his spill when they were here in Reno, that he kind of belittles vitamin D a little bit, but now they're seeing that they're even doing it on creams on topicals putting on faces you'll be surprised there is now topicals for curcumin, green tea but COPPA so they're just throwing so many different things on topicals now, especially with this integrative dermatology group that that's hosting that symposium. So it was it was good stuff. There's a lot of new things even here. Okay, not bashing the people with gray hair. They're saying that it's actually showing a lot of high oxidative stress for for longevity. So that's should be

Speaker 1  14:13
very well. I remember that. Suppose Liam last year. Is that getting ready to come up again? It

Speaker 3  14:19
actually just got finished during the weekend. So there's oh, here's what they reap gray haired people use melatonin, high doses of melatonin. And they know that darkening of hair strands that are great. Were noted with the higher doses and that can also be used as a biomarker as a metabolic biomarker to look for other conditions. Or like for example, diabetes metabolic syndrome. So that's that's definitely something new in the horizon for I guess here haircare.

Speaker 4  14:52
I think it's Hi guys. So I think you know, everything should be taken with a little bit of a grain of something because well, as you know, an anecdote here. My dad turned gray before he was 30. And he lived to 98 plus, okay, so, you know, I mean, these you know, there are a lot of other things that can come into play. By the way. Have you talked in the past about a very simple little supplement like niacin amide, which has a fair amount of published data for reducing skin cancer,

Speaker 3  15:23
right? They featured that as well in the symposium that niacin amide now is actually something that they go into more of a generic discussion or the level there for that prevention. of cancer, skin cancer, and they're promoting putting it on creams rather than it's it's B three. So you you take it orally before but now it's it's a skin product that dermatologists are using.

Speaker 4  15:49
Well, and also you know the external application can be helpful, but it's not necessarily going to be well absorbed in every place in every occasion and that sort of thing.

Speaker 3  16:02
One thing I like though, is I'm waiting for your estradiol cream that you put on your face as part of yours. It's sort of pursuing your secret this early but

Speaker 4  16:16
that you know what if you if I can talk about testosterone cream on males because maybe that's good too. You know, the skin has aromatase that's how you guys have plenty of extra dial in your skin. You talk about they talk about that.

Speaker 3  16:35
Well, they were scared to talk about it. spoke about in their their their answers like oh no, the literature doesn't back that up. We're scared about breast cancer and all these female cancers. So they're standing over here from that topic. I mean, sure, dermatology, they're probably they

Speaker 4  16:54
don't know. And that's not their that's not their thing, but I'd love to see some data on if testosterone or DHEA cream for men would be anti aging. I don't know for the skin. You know, the skin thing. I don't know. But I don't know why it went into you have all that aromatase in your skin to turn it into lovely estradiol locally. We don't want to give you systemic levels.

Speaker 3  17:20
That is true. So but yeah, I think we have a lot of interesting topics coming from a doctor release that you will be discussing. You have a slideshow for us. We have

Speaker 4  17:29
a little slideshow I have I brought a little slideshow here. And then hopefully that will be sort of a starting point for for conversation which could probably go on for a while because I hope that everyone loves the topic. Let me see if I can

Bill Clearfield  17:44
click off so I apologize, but I'm glad that we haven't lost everybody. So we're all here. Will you record so

Bill Clearfield  17:58
yeah, we're recording it. Yes.

Speaker 4  18:01
Okay, so um, I made this little state debt slide deck for you guys last night. So I hope you like flowers and purples. Okay, because, oh, good because I love flowers and purple happens to be my favorite color. It's kind of tied with teal. Now, I always like to put a lot of flower pictures in my slides number one because I do whatever I want. I hope you know that. And number two, because flowers are what? They're the reproductive organ of a plant. And so if you have a very unhealthy plants, you're probably not going to have a gorgeous flower coming off of it. And if you have a beautiful flower, probably there's a lot of good things happening in the rest of that plant to create such a beautiful flower. And of course women have a reproductive system that is very dependent on the spa, you might say the SAP or whatever. As an analogy that is so critical. It's the ovarian hormones. And I came up by the way, I don't know Do you guys have theories on why a woman has to go through menopause and lose her ovarian hormone production of estradiol and progesterone. I used to be I don't know if any of you have your own theories, but I'll share mine in a minute. But I was really mad at nature for quite a few years. I mean, it's like this is so mean to women. You know like we fought so hard for all our rights. And then here we have, you know, these beautiful hormones and then we lose them. And there was no great solution, you know, to really replacing the ovaries, we have hormones, but it's not the same as having, you know, 21 year old ovaries. So my theory and I'm open to hearing anybody else's theory on why women have to go through menopause, is that it's actually nature not being mean. They're trying to save us, women. Okay, so if you think about now I'm an OBGYN. So I delivered 1000s of babies during the 25 years in private practice that I was doing deliveries and it became quite apparent, you know, you need to have a really healthy body to have a healthy pregnancy and as women got older, like into their 40s and they were pregnant, they were really high risk pregnancies. So the chance of developing gestational hypertension, diabetes, preeclampsia, preterm deliveries, growth, restricted babies, or macrosomic. Babies, all of that really increased so dramatically with the age of the woman. So if you look at ancient times, if a woman was in her, like mid to late 40s 50s and older and she was still fertile, because she had ovarian function and she could still ovulate. Those women if they got pregnant, they wouldn't survive. Their babies wouldn't survive. So then the women would die from being pregnant, their babies would not survive. So what's the point of that? And then because they would die from you know, pregnancy related complications, then they wouldn't be around to raise their existing children because the goal of nature the prime directive of nature, is the creation of new life. And in for humans, to be successful with creating new life. You have to as a female, you need a man it's good to have the males too. I mean, we need them to but the females particularly to be around to raise the children to their sexual maturity, so that they can in turn have their own children later. You know, remember, humans are the only species on planet earth that actually controls their own reproductive destiny, which I am in favor of, but you know, that's not the way nature actually planned it out, you know, so now I think nature was trying to be helpful by taking our fertility away so we wouldn't die from pregnancy related complications as we got older. But now that you know, time and Millennium have passed, we now separate reproduction, from longevity and healthy living and healthy lifespans and everything else. So the fact that we cannot reproduce after a certain age, that doesn't mean that we can't have those hormones back understanding that those hormones are essentially foundationally essential for the health of the body of a female, that I don't think I have to convince anyone here that hormones are good, right? You all have come to that conclusion that well, just in case you know, you're still on the, you know, on the sidelines, unsure about if hormones are safe. Nature did not evolve for females to have bio identical hormones that actually kill us that hurt us, you know, in any form or fashion. Hormones are protective. But of course, there was a lot of confusion. With the Women's Health Initiative with using different chemicals, not human hormones at all. You know, the conjugated equine hormones, known as Premarin that came from the pregnant mares urine and taken orally, which has some negative effects. Like it turns into a straw and predominantly plus a lot of Equine hormones that would never be in human, and it increases blood clotting by 400% and medroxyprogesterone acetate, which is an endocrine disruptor for progesterone, which increases breast cancer and a host of other bad things. So it would be like doing a study I used to talk about strawberry flavored jelly beans, but now I'm going to switch and call it with trans fat and then concluding that the fat from olives, you know, mono beautiful mono unsaturated fats, or from an avocado or evil because trans fat is evil, so we got to get over that. And people are afraid of the wrong things. No one should be afraid of bioidentical hormones. They should be afraid of endocrine disruptors and other things in life but not not bioidentical hormones. And so optimal hormones are essential at physiologic levels and rhythms. So every that's what we're going to sort of focus on, because that is really a problem nowadays. And I'll tell you my thoughts on that. So everything matters based on dose, right. So let's talk about dose a little bit. Oh, first, let me just go through my little slides here. So estrogen is the mother hormone it is the master of metabolic homeostasis, and of course, the master of all menstrual cycles. Now, what do I mean by metabolism? Okay, I'm sure you all know, but metabolism is the creation production distribution, storage utilization of energy, energy. And energy is the spark of life. In fact, when you think about it, if you have no energy in your brain, then you are brain dead. If you have no energy in your heart, and you have no electrical signals, then you are dead dead because you're flatlining for your EKG right? So energy is the spark of life and you cannot properly control metabolism, which is all about energy, which is about estrogen. So estrogen, and now why is this like such a big deal? Because anyone who deals with obstetrics knows that and this is all of life, but obstetrics is like the ultimate way of understanding life itself. Because a woman who is pregnant needs to have an optimal intake of energy, also known as eating to provide what is necessary for utilization of energy for herself and her baby. So how does appetite get regulated? How does the energy utilization get regulated? It's all estrogen estrogen regulates all these things. As a side note, you all are, I'm sure very aware of the drugs that are so trendy now that like, we'll go v you know, Manjaro, the GLP one agonists and of course, the other has g AIP. But if we just talked about GLP one and the other one as well, but these other peptides, but GLP, one does not get produced properly, or function properly in an absence of estradiol, which is often like forgotten. That's one of the many reasons why women as they get into the perimenopause, and menopause will gain weight like belly fat and they get that matronly body instead of having their cute feminine body with the nice little waist and they just do not have proper regulation of adipose tissue appetite and so on, and estradiol is like critical for that, in fact, is now published data. I don't know if you guys know this. There's published data showing that GLP one agonists in females work better if they're given alongside estrogen therapy. Okay, so this is like a critical hormone and losing it creates metabolic disruption throughout the whole female body. It's such a huge deal. And so to that end, Nature needs to have every organ in the female body working optimally, or successful reproduction. Now remember, successful reproduction in the female human requires not just being successful with one pregnancy and one baby, but to manage and replace the species. You have to have multiple pregnancies so remember, I'm not telling people to go out there and have a bunch of babies. I'm just talking about what how the body is worked on. By the way, just FYI. I'm like the ultimate feminists here. Okay, I was out there when Gloria Steinem was like starting up so I'm totally for reproductive, no self management, but this is reality this how the body it was designed. So that's what makes so it's so difficult to deal with contraception that interferes with normal hormones, because we need these hormones. That's the problem. Getting rid of our bioidentical hormones from our ovaries is not really great for women at any age, including teenagers. So and that's another whole conversation we can have is like what the heck do we do about contraception, but in terms of fertility, you need to have every organ system working properly. And for pregnancy, you will have massive amounts of complications which by the way, are increasing by the truckload. Now, there are women having heart failure in pregnancy, dying of you know, of strokes. I mean, this like really problematic here because women are getting pregnant who are not very healthy. They sometimes get tricked into getting pregnant through fertility, drugs and techniques, which I want people to have babies when they want them and they can't, but every woman should be optimized as much as possible. I hope you guys are doing that. If you have reproductive age women who want to get pregnant, to try to get them healthy before even if they go into IVF because otherwise, they're going to have high rates of pregnancy related complications and the BBC producer optimally, not optimally healthy and often will have metabolic problems from the day they're born. Because they it turns out, the you know, in uterine environment has a huge effect on the genetic expression from a metabolic point of view of the offspring. So there are estrogen receptors throughout the entire body. They're in every organ system. That's why when women go through menopause and they lose their estrogen and by the way, I'm not talking today about progesterone. We could do that conversation another time because I'm going to touch on progesterone because progesterone is not just a sidekick of estrogen, in terms of what it does in the uterus for like creating periods and shedding the lining. It has receptors throughout the body and has its own set of functions as well. So we'll touch a little bit on progesterone, but that's really at least another hour long lecture. But in terms of like the estrogen here, it's everywhere the receptors and it's to maintain the health of the woman not just through the pregnancy, but because humans have to reproduce multiple times so that she has multiple pregnancies, and successful childbirth, and then raises each child to their sexual maturity. So they can then in turn, reproduce, that's nature's plan, whether we live by it or not. is another story but that is how our bodies work designed. So you need to be healthy not just for one pregnancy like there are a species of the of octopus that lay their eggs and then die. You know, but that's not that's not useful for humans. We can't like have a baby and die. That's not good. We have to have multiple babies, we have to live long enough to raise them to their sexual maturity. So we have to live a quite a long time to make that happen. So we need all our organ systems working properly. And estrogen is like the hormonal glue that links all the hormone that links all the organ systems to work in the same timezone to the circadian rhythm and to have optimization and all of that is lost when we lose our ovarian hormone production. Now, I use the word estrogen and sometimes I use it inappropriately and probably some of you guys do too, because estrogen is not a hormone. Just like B vitamins are not a vitamin you would never like you're talking about like you know what, what is like niacin and like different B vitamins. No one would say you have a deficient of B vitamin like what B vitamin, what are you talking about here? Right? So you have to then think, well, what estrogen are we talking about? So estrogen is a family of hormones. And you could say the same thing about fats. I mean, like, they're like manufactured fats that are evil, like trans fat, but even within the natural fats, you know, there's Omega six fatty acids, those omega threes, there's Omega nine, then there's, you know, there's like saturated fat, they're not all the same, and the body uses them differently. And estrogen is a family of hormones, and we always use the word estrogen. And nobody knows what they're talking about. By the way, if I hear any of you saying the words, and you might, but if I hear it, estrogen dominance, I am going to have to like give you like a little shove or something. I won't hit you in the head because that would be a bad thing for your brain, but I will be very unhappy. Because nobody knows what that means. Like estrogen dominance, what the heck are you talking about? What estrogen? Is it progesterone that you don't have enough of? Where's the estrogen coming from? What type of estrogen you know, just be specific, what's the problem? You know, because when people say estrogen dominance, people think oh, estrogen is bad, like down with estrogen. Let's get rid of it. It's like what estrogen are you talking about? So here we have the family of human estrogens. So at the top I put the Master the Master estrogen which is estradiol, known as E two. So estrogens, like B vitamins have a letter E. Not too shocking. And then number two, there's 41234, like B vitamins one and B, you know, b one, oh, that's thymine b two, you know? riboflavin. So they also have they have a letter a number a name, estrogens have the same thing. So estradiol is the estrogen made by the ovaries, okay. Now estrone s DRO. And estradiol is known as e to s drone is made by converting estradiol to s drone, and there's an enzyme that can convert back and forth. And the body decides when and if it wants to convert estradiol into estrogen. So we're not smart enough to figure that out. We do not want to micromanage estrogen. subtypes or how they convert one to another. Let the body do it itself as needed. So we give extra dial as the hormone replacement estrogen and the body will turn it into S drone e one as needed. Now estriol is the dominant estrogen made by the placenta in pregnancy, it's called E three. And the placenta makes a lot of estriol. It has a short life. Half Life in the body. estriol binds at least 80% to the beta receptor. S drone binds predominantly to the alpha receptor, and estradiol binds in a balanced way to the alpha receptor, the beta receptor and the G protein coupled receptor jeepers GPRS, which is predominantly a membrane receptor, both internal and external membrane of the cell. And it creates more rapid responses, but now they're showing that could probably do some things involving the nuclear system to you know, s the beta receptor and the Alpha receptor are primarily nuclear receptors. So they work by creating a protein that gets transcribed on the ribosomes to make like an enzyme or protein to let take some time and as well, the alpha and beta receptors can also be now found on membranes, we now know that so it's not just a nuclear receptor that is being bound by s drone and estriol. It's also membrane receptors as well. So it's very complicated and we they interact with one another like if you have a lot of stimulation to the beta receptor, it actually down regulates the Alpha receptor, which is what happens in pregnancy. So Pregnancy is a very unique time and we do not want to replicate pregnancy in a non pregnant menopausal women that would that not be logical. And estriol is like predominantly the beta receptor. Now all the different receptors have a different predominance in different organ systems and like for example, in the arteries, that's more alpha in the cerebral cortex, it's more beta in the GI tract, it's more beta in the bone, it's more alpha, but you know, they're all good and they're all bounced in the immune system and not it's never one or the other exclusively, it's more a predominance in the immune system, the innate immune cells, the macrophages mast cells, neutrophils, they are predominantly alpha, the beta that rather the B lymphocytes or predict that make like antibodies are predominantly beta. So in pregnancy, because you have such high estriol, which works predominantly on the beta receptor, high beta receptor binding down regulates the functionality of the Alpha receptor. So basically, it's acting like an immune modulator. It's lowering the activity of the innate immune cells like the mast cells, macrophages, neutrophils, so you have a lower production of immune response and inflammatory cytokines, which helps to prevent the immune system from attacking and killing the fetus or the embryo. So it's like an immune modulator. So it's like just amazing that you know, you have this whole immune system that's modulated. And the reason I'm going into this, is that that's also why women who are pregnant are less capable of dealing with infections like if they get COVID or they get the flu or chickenpox. They are more prone to getting a worse outcome because their immune system their innate immune system is somewhat downregulated. That is why women for example, with rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, they often have significant remissions during pregnancy, because of the reduced production of inflammatory cytokines, you know, like certain interleukins, tumor necrosis factor alpha, they're suppressed because the innate immune system is suppressed by having all of that beta agonist binding by the estriol down regulating the receptors on the innate immune cells. So but here's the thing. A lot of people now are prescribing biased, and you may know I speak against biased not because I think it's like, oh, terribly evil, but because it's not physiologic. It doesn't really make any logical sense. Because that is not what a woman has in her body, ever. It's not even like pregnancy. I mean, it's all concocted stuff. That was sounded right at the time 40 years ago, but it doesn't make any logical sense now that we understand receptors and how they work and so on. And the Why would we put all that beta in to downregulate alpha, we love alpha, alpha is not evil. Alpha is critical for having proper cardiovascular health for a proper immune function for bone health. I mean, this like, not only that the hypothalamus of the brain is predominantly alpha, that regulates things like appetite, okay, and sleep and our circadian clock has an our nutrient sensors are predominantly alpha, the the, the master clock is predominantly beta so it's a blend, nothing is all one or the other, but they interconnect with each other, they talk to each other. So we don't want to create an artificial environment because I'm telling you, you're not smart enough to micromanage estrogen receptors. You know, we have drugs that are trying to micromanage that they call them SERMs. And they all have potential issues. But why would we be doing this? You know, it was originally thought, Well, women who are pregnant don't get breast cancer. Well, that's not true. Okay. Sorry. That is not true. Women who are pregnant can get breast cancer to they tend not to because there's so much younger they're not in the age group that tends to get breast cancer. And so we don't want to create environments with hormones that never exist. I say this over and over. I'm a very simple thinker. Now that I have figured out in my own head and I think it's true why nature gives us menopause. It's not because Nature doesn't want us females to have hormones. It doesn't want us to be fertile, because fertility can kill us when as we get older because being pregnant is a highly risky business. Okay. Women can have massive it's like the ultimate stress test of reproductive age women is pregnancy. So the last thing you want is older women getting pregnant. And the whole thing is interconnected with the hormones. But when we separate it when we separate fertility from the hormones, which we can do by giving hormones, what we would want to do is take away fertility but maintain the hormones. The way nature gave us the hormones, not create some new artificial made up completely concocted scenario of hormones for women. So if we could and by the way, there are people working on this, replaced the ovaries with a new set of ovaries. You know, there have been some research now where you can take like a little, a little piece of ovaries out at a young age, which is not probably going to catch on. But if you did that and then you cryo preserve it and then when a woman hits 50 You put it back in either on the ovary if you're actually looking for fertility, but probably not at 50. But you can just implant that piece of ovary like in the upper arm or in the upper leg, and that will then start producing hormones. And they're saying that you could then extend the reproductive hormones but not reproduction for another 20 years by by actually putting back and ovary, a piece of an ovary like that. In addition, there are people working on cloning ovaries, because that would be the ultimate solution not have fertility but have the hormones okay? Because the hormones, the way they're designed by the ovary are the optimal way of maintaining optimal health. We want to have the optimal health of a woman in her early 20s. That will not happen when you're 50 or 60. Or 70. But we that's a goal or goal is to have everything as optimal as in your early 20s. So the best way to go about getting even a little bit close to that is by replicating the hormones of a woman in that age group. Now you may be thinking, Oh, that sounds like like wily kind of thing. And maybe you know, she was pretty smart, and maybe that will be the way to go. The problem is that we have no data at all, we just have no data. And on the dosing I'm not saying don't do it, I'm saying, you know, it's um, you know, a little bit of a wild west with that kind of a thing. But you know, it has a lot of sense to it. When you think replicating nature. What you know, is the best way if you think about creating a scenario that is completely against nature, and failed horribly and that's how a nine This is not the same, like bias is not like as horrible in any form or fashion like what I'm going to tell you, it would be ultra processed food, right? Like we can make food better than nature. No, that did not work out with Ultra processed food, and saying that we can create a hormone environment for women after menopause. That's better than the hormone environment that was created by the ovaries. I don't think so. But it's not horrible. It's just not optimal. Okay, because it just doesn't make sense. Once you understand that estriol it can actually change how the immune system responds, and you're down regulating the Alpha receptor, which is very important for many functions in the body. It's just illogical. You're much more likely to have leaky gut because all women in pregnancy have leaky gut, and that's intended but it's not supposed to be out of control. Living pregnancy is like living on the edge because you get leaky gut in pregnancy, because it creates a low level of inflammation and a low level of insulin resistance. By having a low level of insulin resistance. You'll have a little bit higher glucose, and you'll have a little bit more insulin that will get more glucose to the fetus so that the baby can grow rapidly in a short period of time, and the higher level of insulin circulating will help the mother to put on fat to produce to gain weight to produce fat without having to eat a lot more food. So it's nature's way of producing fat storage in the mother and glucose to the baby for baby growth. Well, what the heck would we want to reproduce that in a postmenopausal woman and they have enough problems with weight gain, you don't need to give them a hormone environment that creates more weight gain and gives them leaky gut. So please do not use bias, no matter what some compounding pharmacy told you. It's illogical. But I'm always open minded. And I'm not saying that there is no potential role for estriol in disease states like maybe for multiple sclerosis, but that's not hormone therapy and menopause that's using it as a drug. Now I mentioned here on the slide, s detrol. So extra tall is efore. It's a very weak

Speaker 4  47:04
hormone estrogen that's made in the fetal liver for a little bit of time during pregnancy during the pregnancy when the fetus is inside. So it's a fetal estrogen made by the liver and it's a weak estrogen when I say weak, what does that mean? It means that it doesn't bind very powerfully to the receptors. And that the reason that you need to know about is that it's on the market now. It's in a birth control pill already called next Delos, and it will probably be out as a hormone replacement. Estrogen for menopausal women at some point in the next year or two, because they're working on it the drug companies are working on and if you say why would you want that? Well, to some degree, it's because pharmaceutical companies can make it if they if you can make it somebody will make it even though it may seem a little bit illogical but there may be a place for it in menopausal women we don't know for sure. Now Alpha receptor for estrogen is not one form. There's like we know at least two forms is two forms of the Alpha receptor. All breast cancer seems to have one form of that alpha receptor when you have estrogen receptor positive breast cancer. So it turns out that esta trawl does not bind to that specific form of the Alpha receptor, that is the receptor positive breast cancer receptor. So there may be a place but extra tall in women who are dealing with breast cancer even actively who have estrogen receptor positivity. So as to tal may have a very specific limited role. But of course, if it comes out on the market, they're going to market it for everything, but I'm just telling you that for breast cancer patients, this may actually be a really amazing option. So I wanted to mention I talked about like dose, so dose matters. So what's going on with dosing now in terms of hormone therapy, so hopefully I have convinced you not to use biased okay. Now, what about how do you dose so, right now, the most popular way of dosing is a relatively small, sometimes not relatively just really small dose of E to Astra dial with a nightly dose of progesterone usually like progesterone 100 milligrams. Now, is that better than nothing? Absolutely. I have a motto that includes bias. Any hormones are better than no hormones. It's like if you're starving to death, ultra processed food is still better than no food. Do you starve to death? You know, so any food is better than no food if the alternative is starvation, and any hormones are better than no one moans like, you know, biased is certainly better than no hormones and giving a very small dose of estradiol I believe is better than no extra dial. But it's important to know that dose matters. Okay? So there's actually published data showing that estradiol has a different effect on the immune cells, like the monocytes macrophages when it's low versus high. Now, why would this make total sense? So low doses are more pro inflammatory and high doses are anti inflammatory. Let's think about the menstrual cycle. When a woman has her period, the estradiol is very low, okay. And that's when it's like in menopausal range for just a very few days. So during that time, it's a very inflammatory state in that the uterine lining is dead and dying and the yucky lining dead cells and stuff is coming out and to that end to help get it out. the uterine cavity is going to have a higher concentration of pro inflammatory prostaglandins, which creates some amount of cramping. So a little bit of cramping with the menstrual period is normal extreme. means there's way too much inflammation way too much of the pro inflammatory prostaglandins and that's why drugs like NSAIDs can be useful because they can block the production of the process the inflammatory prostaglandins, there are other modalities to deal with cramps and I'd be happy to talk about that another day. But it's important to know that low estradiol is associated with a pro inflammatory state and high when is it high, it's really high when you get the spike that precedes the LH spike, which then induces ovulation so why would you not want to have any inflammation at that point, because the sperm are coming or they're already here, and we do not want to kill them, right? Because there are aliens, right? Sperm or aliens. They have different antigens. So you don't want the immune system to kill them. So you want to have a very anti inflammatory state. high estrogen is anti inflammatory, low estradiol, anti I'm saying estrogen, it's estradiol and I've seen estrogen. So let's see, I always mess up to with that. Astra dials what we're talking about. So Astra dial high amounts is anti inflammatory. And low amounts are pro inflammatory. Now, just as a comment s drone, so s drone e one is produced in menopausal women in a fairly large amount in some women and some through the action of aromatase, predominantly in adipose tissue. So androgens predominantly coming from the adrenal gland by action of them on them by the aromatase will convert to s drone. Now when you have high inflammation in the menopause because menopause is associated if you're not replacing hormones, natural menopause, as a pro inflammatory environment, like they call inflammation, you have a lot of inflammation because the immune system is dysregulated because the the gut the the microbiome of the gut changes and menopausal women to become dysbiotic and they all get impaired gut barrier aka leaky gut, which creates more inflammation. The immune cells are more triggered to respond with higher amounts of inflammatory cytokines because the the Alpha receptor on the innate immune cells is more activated because s drone activates them more. So s drone is very pro inflammatory. It is it doesn't. If you think of estradiol as the Grand modulator of the immune system, it turns on and off inflammation. as needed. S drone is like the on switch. And to some degree. estriol is like the off switch, but you want to have extra dial which modulates the on and the off switch appropriately appropriately. And so we definitely want to have extra dial s drone is not evil. We want as strong but we don't want overproduction. We want the right amount in postmenopausal women who have especially a fair amount of adipose tissue because weight gain is so common, and they have a lot of inflammation inflammation up regulates aromatase in fat tissue. And so you get the conversion of these androgens from the adrenal predominantly into S drone. So you have this s drone dominance you might say, okay, an S drone activates the Alpha receptor on the innate immune cells to create a more pro inflammatory environment and it sort of expands the inflammatory state. And that can accelerate. If you develop a breast cancer in the breast. It activates because it's remember it's on the alpha it activates the Alpha receptor, both forms of the Alpha receptor. Breast cancer has one form of alpha receptor positivity. So s drone that's produced both in peripheral fat and in the fat of the breast itself can actually stimulate further growth of the breast cancer that has nothing to do with extra dial Okay, nothing to do with ovarian or exogenous given estradiol and in fact, just so you know, there was no published data showing that giving extra dial to women with breast cancer actually accelerates the breast cancer growth, but I'm not advocating to do that. Okay, because hypothetically it might, but it's interesting that there really is no clear data to show that but s drone produced in the breast fat and in peripheral fat, will actually potentially more than potentially will activate and grow breast cancers. So that's important but in terms of Astra dial, what's happening now is that there are a lot of doctors who are very uncomfortable giving physiologic doses, doses that are going to replicate something like the average level of an estradiol level in a normal menstrual cycle. It's not like what's the average level it's sort of like not, you know, the lowest part of the follicular not the highest part of the luteal, not that spike, but something sort of in between. So I kind of go with around if you can get the patient to do this and they're willing to around 100 picograms per mil of estradiol, but at least over 50, okay, and where what's the high what, you know what, I don't have a firm cut off, but usually in the 151 60 range, but if somebody has like 180 and they're doing great, there's nothing wrong with that. Okay, a luteal phase, estradiol level can easily be over 200. Just so you know. Okay, so we want to be in a physiologic range. But if you go below 50, then you're not going to have enough to really maintain and grow a lot of the tissues, okay, we know that you can't maintain the vagina at all with the system. level less than 50. So I try to always get, please unless the patients that like can't stand it. I don't want it higher than Of course you do what the patient wants. But you know, the goal is to be at least over 50 and sort of towards 100 If possible, but it can be somewhat below somewhat over this is the most personalized non precision medicine ever. Okay, I call it ballpark medicine. But we don't want to be super, super low, because that doesn't make sense what we're trying to achieve something here we want all the receptors all over the body to be activated and to do their optimal thing that means optimal doses and we don't want to give such a low dose that we're actually no maybe feeding inflammation. That's ridiculous. So what's happened is that there are so many people giving estradiol a lot of them through clinics that are online, and they want to make it cookie cutter and really simple. So they're giving really small levels of estradiol, and then they're giving nightly doses of progesterone. So what's the problem with that? Well, progesterone down regulates the estrogen receptors. So basically, it's kind of like the off switch. If you look at a normal menstrual cycle in the luteal phase, the proliferative growth of the uterine lining stops because of the progesterone. So progesterone is kind of like the brakes on growth and estrogen. estradiol is like the you know, the gas, but why are you trying to block growth factors? So here's the thing, it's a total body package. If you give estradiol it's going to go to every organ, it's going to be good for the brain. It's going to be good for the cardiovascular for the musculoskeletal for the genital urinary for the skin. It's going to be good for all the organ systems, and it's going to go to the uterus. If a woman has a uterus, we can put up a slot a sign at the uterine artery saying hormones do not enter is going to get into the uterus, and in the uterine lining, it will create growth factors that create proliferation. And here's the thing. If you grow it, you must shed it. You can't have unending growth of the uterine lining. It's just going to topple out and then you're going to have random bleeding. So if you're going to give a more physiologic level of estradiol, you will have growth of the uterine lining. It's just part of the package deal. And if you grow it, you must shed it. And if you give enough estradiol to create the growth effects throughout the whole body, then you're going to grow the uterine lining. And if you keep trying to give higher and higher amounts of progesterone, to try to knock down the growth factors of the estradiol at some point you're going to create sort of a hormonal Havoc situation that's not physiologic at all. So what is you know, among the many, many amazing benefits of estradiol which you know, I'd be happy to give a talk on just everything that estradiol does to the body, including the mitochondria, and oh, every organ system it's like it's the most amazing hormone and you know, works to make thyroid work. It works to make other hormones work, including melatonin works better when you have extra dial on board, everything seems to. So in terms of getting growth factors, like think of brain derived neurotrophic factor nerve growth, factor, VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor, you need to have growth factors for rejuvenation repair replacement. Well, you can't get optimal growth factors if you don't have an optimal dose, and estradiol creates risk is responsible for creating all these growth. factors, and it's going to grow the uterine lining. It's a package deal. Now, I'll tell you something that I am really, really wanting to promote, but no one is doing this. But it would be when a woman hits around 50 Or when she's no longer planning to have children in her 40s say she should have an optional endometrial ablation. Like if a woman wants to have optimal hormones, but she doesn't want to bleed and you want doctors to be able to prescribe hormones in a physiologic dose so that they get optimal benefits but they don't know how to handle bleeding or irregular bleeding. Why can't women have their uterine lining ablated essentially destroyed either with radiofrequency or thermal ablation when they no longer care about it and you're not taking out the uterus. It is a 15 minute procedure. And when you think about what women can do, optionally like I have next door to me here, I have a plastic surgeon's office. So a woman at any age man too, but I'm just talking about women. They're the biggest users. They can walk right into that plastic surgeon's office and asked for all kinds of surgeries. That have essential risks to them that can require hours and hours under anesthesia and that nobody thinks anything of it. It's like I want a facelift. It'll take 10 hours, okay, fine, you know, or whatever. I want breast implants. I want liposuction, you name it, and they get it okay. And all of that requires general anesthesia. Nobody blinks an eye you want it you get it? Well, why can't women have endometrial ablation on demand? 15 minute procedure, extremely low risk. I don't get it. I think we should band together and create some kind of a program to get this on. You know to get this normalized, because you cannot get optimal results with non optimal dosing. I am sorry, but that's the way it is. And when they did, for example, the elite study and the keep study, I don't know if you guys are familiar with those studies. Those are the main studies that came out that were not just retrospective, they were placebo controlled, double blinded, prospective studies that involved cyclic progesterone, okay, they were not static dosing, the dosing of the estrogen component, which sometimes included estradiol and sometimes had oral estradiol and sometimes had to lower dose and included some Premarin. I mean, don't even get me started on the doctors who created those studies had no idea what they were doing, but they meant well, but but those studies do cyclic progesterone there is this static dosing of knightly progesterone is so illogical. It's non physiologic, like, you know, we tell people to eat at the right time of day to go to sleep at the right time and so on. You know, we know that circadian rhythm matters. We know that all rhythms matter. So what the heck are we creating this total non existent regimen of hormones where we're giving extra dial every day and progesterone every night? It's illogical. It's not physiologic and you're purposely trying to block the growth, the you know the growth factors from coming into play that are so is restorative for every organ system, including, unfortunately, the uterus. So if we could do elective ablations, it would solve that problem. You'd have spotting if at all, or no bleeding, which is the majority of cases with an endometrial ablation. This should be what we're doing. We shouldn't be giving hormones in a way that's non physiologic. That doesn't allow estradiol to have its optimal benefit because you're knocking it down by giving all that progesterone every day. And it progesterone and estradiol they go through a beautiful rhythm that actually can matter. Like we know that women who are in the reproductive years when they have irregular cycles, they have more cancers, cardiovascular disease, premature death, cycling matters, because when you have the cycles, when you show the beautiful menstrual cycle, the the rhythm of the hormones is more than just to make a menstrual cycle. When we have like the different spikes of estradiol progesterone, they're up regulating tumor suppressor genes. They're like estradiol as it's rising. It actually up regulates its own receptors, progesterone receptors, thyroid receptors, testosterone receptors, higher amounts of progesterone downregulates, estrogen receptors, and testosterone receptors. So I mean, these receptors are dynamic, they're not fixed structures. They they have receptivity that's altered by the rhythms of the hormones. And I have a little course that you're welcome to access if you know, like if you're interested. I'm not pushing it at all. But that talks a little bit about how to include a rhythmic dosing using just standard commercial products, you know, that is not going to get anybody into trouble. It's a very mild modification if you're even interested in that sort of thing, but just creating the rhythm, not like getting the rhythm of ups and downs in the cycle, which is probably the way to go at some point. But just having the progesterone to two weeks, and then not two weeks, more or less in like two weeks out of the month. By having that you're actually helping to reboot the receptors. I don't know if you know this, but when you give all the time you get tacky, full access. Of your receptors. So often women after years of or a few years, not that many on constant dosing will actually stop having proper response because it's like never has a chance to reboot. And this idea that people have manufacture would you take one day off a week or something? Where's the data for that? There? Is none. So stop making up your own programs and whoever comes up with this stuff. Stop trying to think you're smarter than nature. I know I am not. Let's try to be somewhat consistent with nature here. Remember, Nature took away women's hormones, not because nature didn't want women to have hormones. Nature didn't want women to be able to reproduce and die from from pregnancy. So we want to give back hormones. We want to give back bio identical hormones, not stupid stuff like depo you know like Provera medroxyprogesterone acetate or equine conjugated estrogens, and you know, there's still products out there like, what is it? I never prescribed Duve Dubray I'm forgetting this, like Dubay and it was off the market. Now it's back. It's a combination of it's an oral product. Premarin and asarum. For estrogen that acts as sort of on the progesterone receptor and blocks. The growth of the uterine lining is so concocted and so dumb, and so many GYN are prescribing it because I guess the drug rep is very nice and persuasive, but it's like non physiologic, it makes absolutely no sense. So I'm just very simple, simple, simple thinking. Just try to replicate nature. Don't try to create foods that's not natural. Don't try to create environments that are not natural. Don't try to create hormone regimens with non human hormones. That are not natural. So on in terms of what's out there and commercial products, I'm sure you already know this, but there's like patches, and they're all generic now and some of them they're not identicals. So if you get a patient that's on a certain patch that's like Dottie that, you know, we're you know, the mylar or little letter or whatever that other one is, we know you get one that has their generic but they have a brand name to them, and the patient does well on it, please try to get them to have the same one because I've had patients that the pharmacy switch them to a different manufacturer, and everything goes good, not good, because they really don't absorb the same and they don't they're allowed to have variants and actually how much estradiol is even in the patches, so it's created some problems. The other thing is that you're more likely to have sometimes breakthrough bleeding on the patches because the amount that's delivered into the system on day 123 and a half is not going to be the same so you'll have more on day one less on day two less on day three and so on. And for some people, especially as the progesterone is on board will create instability of the lining and then they'll start having breakthrough bleeding and then you won't know what to do and then you have to send them to me, and you won't want to do that because I may not even be in your state. So you know, then you have to find a tolerant GYN which is really tough, which is why people try to give doses that won't create growth, but that's not a solution because you're not dosing people appropriately. You don't want to give a sub therapeutic dose, you're not going to tell people well, like someone walks in and says I don't want to sweat, but I do want to exercise and have all the benefits. It's like huh, you What are you willing to do? Well, I'm willing to exercise five minutes once a week, okay, you know, you're not gonna get the benefits, what kind of benefit you get of exercising and you don't even sweat five minutes a week. So dose matters, and so on. So in terms of the estrogen doses, for an older woman, I would usually start at a lower dose and then work up but the goal is usually to get to the highest dose because the highest dose is not even a high dose. So and everyone absorbs differently so I do measure I you know, I feel that you have to measure doses. And I used for the patches I tell them to get the the level tested the day after they put on the patch for consistency, sort of a middle of the road. Now in terms of gels, there's the two commercial products extra gel which you wipe up your arm and the two pumps is usually what's needed. That's what they use in Europe all the time. And the dividual which comes in a variety of strains and usually you end up with the to get any kind of good level, the one or the 1.25 milligrams and sometimes with the highest doses of BS you still can't get into a reasonable level. So everyone absorbs differently. The skin is supposed to be a barrier talking about dermatology earlier, the skin is supposed to be a barrier. It's not supposed to be a sieve and some people don't absorb well you know the skin says what the heck I'm not here for hormone delivery route you know, and that doesn't absorb so you have to then go to bio identical compounded which I use all the time too and that's what I put on my face to try to reduce wrinkles. estradiol is very anti aging of the face. It's very anti wrinkling, and it reduces skin cancer and it also reduces like brown spots. Inflammation is what causes melasma. Okay, or s drone, you know, like from birth control pills, or inflammation like pregnancy is an inflammatory time. It's a very interesting time pregnancy because it's a blend of anti and pro inflammation, inflammation. At the same time. That's why we do not want to replicate pregnancy in a non pregnant person. Pregnancy remembers the ultimate stress test for women. STEM ring is still around. It's not usually available. You have to pharmacy can order it. It's not on any formularies and it's very pricey, but for some people they want it it's you know, it comes in a ring made out of silicone and it comes in a precursor estrogen and then it turns estrogen estradiol, acetate and then it gets converted. But you know, some people they really love it and it it may or may not deliver enough usually if you're going to use it you need to use the higher of the two the only comes into doses and then oral estradiol I almost never use it has about double the risk of blood clotting. But younger women like in their earlier 50s They have low risk for blood clotting anyway, you can actually not that I would do it particularly but you can give unhealthy women birth control pills up to the age of 55. So you certainly could give oral estradiol tablets, but they're converted through the liver into S drone. And like I already told you you don't want a body just full of s drone. You want extra deitel You can only get estradiol and when you give it topically in terms of pellets just as a it says on here. I'm anti pellet and the reason is because it's not physiologic you can never get physiologic dosing that I have ever seen or heard of with pellets because you get too much then maybe it's right and then it's too little. So the body doesn't take what it needs, the body gets what it gets. And so pellets are convenient and so on. And so I'm sure some of you love pellets but I do not recommend them because I'm like I said I'm always trying to mimic nature and I don't think pellets do that. Women do feel really good on pellets initially, but usually they will end up having all kinds of bleeding problems and many of them end up with what would be considered unnecessary hysterectomy is because they get into so many bleeding troubles that nobody can manage. Trophies, I do never use trophies for estradiol because it's really like giving it orally and they it liquefies and it's mostly swallowed. So I do not care for trophies for estradiol. I don't use trophies really much at all. And you know gels and creams and patches. You know patches are not obviously compounded, but I use a lot of compounded estradiol that when use compounded you can put it anywhere you want. You can concentrate it any way you want. You can you know usually if you give compounded estradiol you will give it twice a day some people actually need it even more than twice a day because it's not it's not time release, okay, there's no time release. It's not going to last for 24 hours if you put it on once a day, and some people you have to put on Weaver more than twice a day but most of the time twice a day. There's no published data on where to put it. So people put it in different places. They put it on the inner arm, the upper arm, the inner thighs, you know, people put it anywhere they want. That's why I figured what the heck I'm going to put it where it's going to give me the most bang for my buck. So I'll put it on my face and neck because it's anti wrinkling. There's published studies showing that you can reduce wrinkles in two weeks, you'll see visible reduction of wrinkles in two weeks by putting estradiol on the face. Now talk about estriol on the face. So skin is more beta than alpha in terms of the receptor type. So a lot of times people will use a small dose of estradiol on the face and I'm not opposed to that at all. It's comparable to using estriol intra vaginally, which is a skin the vagina is squat modified squamous tissue, but it's but remember for both of those places, that there are other components of skin besides the epidermis and so on. There's also things like fibroblasts and other like other components of skin and hair follicles which have alpha receptors. So my personal choice, if possible, is to give estradiol to the skin to put it on the skin. But estradiol is still beneficial for sure intra vaginally as well, which is very common in Europe, but the bladder is more alpha. So when you're trying to improve bladder health, you're actually better using extra dial intra vaginally than estriol. But they're both can be helpful.

Speaker 4  1:16:32
Now, this I put here, this is from a paper that I wrote was published about, well, goodness, I think almost two years ago in Mayo Clinic proceedings, I believe, and it just kind of goes over some like basic kinds of hormone use. I wrote this for like, people who are not, you know, going to be doing sophisticated things or rhythmic things in the sense that you're going to be having variable doses through the cycle. And as well, that using all nothing compounded here, this is like you know, Mayo Clinic proceedings are not doing compounded stuff. I have to get if I get want to get published I have to temper my enthusiasm about some things, okay, because otherwise they won't publish it. So it's really important to just appreciate the critical importance of hormones. There's so amazing now here in terms of the rhythmic this is one study and there are others that there's some that showed that you get better bone when you have rhythmic progesterone. This one study showed that giving rhythmic progesterone 14 days each cycle, reduced myocardial infarction. Okay, so I want you to so there's WHY WOULD YOU DO cyclic instead of daily number one, if you want to get a better dose to create growth factors and all the other amazing things like mitochondrial rejuvenation, you want to work on having better glucose transport, lipid control, brain health, immune function that's regulated, unique, it's the magic is in the dose, so you have to given a physiologic dose. If you give a physiologic dose, you're going to grow the uterine lining. And in order to try to keep it from growing you'd have to give massive doses of progesterone. This is not sensible, and it probably won't work and you're going to get breakthrough bleeding anyway. So you have to give a physiologic dose of estradiol to get optimal benefits at every age. And if you grow it, you must shed it. So you do what nature does best, which is progesterone for 14 days each cycle and you can do 200 milligrams. Sometimes you know people need higher, some people can't tolerate even 200 And sometimes you have to use cream compounded progesterone, so this is where the nuanced approaches and the highly individualized approach but the vast majority will do fine on 200 milligrams for 14 days, and they'll have regular bleeding. If they have breakthrough bleeding and they're using a patch. It's probably because the patch has not stable levels. Switch to a daily gel or daily bite, you know, twice a day dosing of compounded estrogen. Sometimes you need to have more estrogen to maintain the stability of the lining, and sometimes you may need to have higher progesterone. So these are the nuanced things that's why it's not for every single person who's in medical in the medical profession to prescribe, you know, because you have to be dedicated to the cause both the patient and the provider that they really want to try to optimize health by giving the optimal amount. So it means giving enough to actually create the outcome. You know, like you want to get, you know, you want to have exercise to get the outcome, you want to have sleep to get the outcome, you want to have hormone dosing to get the outcome. So you want to have enough estradiol to grow the uterine lining if you're gonna get all the other growth factors and it's not just about growth. Factors, it's all the other amazing things that estradiol does throughout the body which I have, you know, lots of lectures on it because it does everything it's involved in every organ system and basically every single function and so if you grow it you must shed it and and also doing the on off of the progesterone actually helps to reboot the receptor so they don't take taxi Paki full axis and that you have proper up and down regulation proper function so that you get optimal outcome. So in order to you know, help every one of your women to have optimized health through their entire life, so they can be what I call myself a super age or lady so that the goal I'm not there yet. Okay? The goal is that at 95 You can do most everything that you did at you know, 35 not identically you know, you're not going to maybe climb the tallest mountain, but you can do travel the world you can have intelligent discussions, you can watch movies that have complex plots, read complex books, you can talk about every subject onto the earth on a you can learn new things. You can take up new hobbies, you can have a career that's ongoing. Okay, so your life is excellent. And I always tell my patients, you know, the warranty is up at 100 at 100. We'll have to renegotiate a new warranty. But I think this is doable, and you know, you can do all these other things you know, you can incorporate you know, metformin and rapamycin and whatever, but none of those make any sense. If you don't have optimal hormones. I say go for the low lying fruit, you know, and that's what this slide is about. Eat at the right times and sometimes fast. Work on exercise fitness, love and community. Get sunshine, laugh, you know, just be active work on your, you know, your HPA axis so that you don't get too stressed out try to get enough vagal tone you know, do all the things that you need. Have a mind body practice, eat the right foods, work on, you know, sleep will eliminate the exposures to environmental toxicants as best you can do all of these things and then an optimized hormones before you even think about doing all these other extraneous things in an absence of addressing the most fundamental things for healthy longevity. And I'm open for questions if anyone's awake?

Bill Clearfield  1:23:10
Yeah. Wow.

Speaker 5  1:23:12
I have a question actually. Go ahead. Dr. Ghosh, thank you very much for this presentation is so wonderful. The question is as as trans enter convention with SR Tao as we said before, and if the woman will still keep the estrogen production, extra estrogen will convert to SR dar as well. And we didn't talk about the estrogen metabolites. Oh, well, what do you

Speaker 4  1:23:46
Yes? No, I didn't mean to interrupt. I was just jumping in because you got me all excited.

Speaker 5  1:23:50
Yes. Yeah. So I wondered how the estrogen metabolites come in since the menopause. A woman will stay keep the estrogen estrogen going, and you've given them this high dose as fragile. So how do we navigate those?

Speaker 4  1:24:09
Okay, so, why do postmenopausal women make Well that s drone, okay, it doesn't have to be that way. Okay. In an ideal world, you would start your Peri menopausal women. Remember menopause is a ridiculous label. It's all about periods. That's not what menopause is about. Menopause is all about hormones and the ovaries. The uterus is just one target of those hormones. Right? Have you ever had the question? Well, if I'm in if I have a hysterectomy, does that mean I don't go to menopause? It's like, I think you do. Okay. So, um, so we you know, we don't if we think about it as a spectrum of ovarian decline, if you can start the hormones early on as supplementation. So perimenopause is hormone supplementation. And in the menopause, when there's the official menopause, when the ovaries are not making any hormones, estradiol and progesterone, they still make testosterone, then that's hormone replacement. So go supplementation replacement. The reason women get all that adipose tissue and make all that s drone is because they have loss of their estradiol. And so their adipose tissue has no controls, you have loss of control, you end up producing a lot of adipose tissue. It's it goes into the middle and the viscera, and you have all that inflammation and the inflammation and leaky gut and the inflammation and dysregulated immune system. The inflammation activates up regulates aromatase, and then you make all that estrogen. None of that has to happen if you do all the lifestyle stuff to lower inflammation, the right diet, sleep, exercise, fitness, all those things, you know, avoidance of environmental toxic and and you give them physiologic doses, you know, similar to a menstrual cycle. You give them the estradiol estradiol modulates the immune system, so you don't have this systemic wide inflammation, which up regulates aromatase, so you're lowering the risk of breast cancer, you're lowering the risk of growing more adipose tissue and around the middle you're lowering the activation of the aromatase enzyme and you're lowering the production of estrogen. So the goal is prevention. But say you get a woman she's already kind of obese or very overweight. She has all that belly fat. She clearly is an inflamed person. You got to work extra hard, but totally doable. You have to do like a detox, you know, using the the nutraceutical company that you like to work on gut health, liver health, you know, work on improving detoxification pathways, which will of course involve estrogen metabolites. So you have to work extra hard for women that you don't get to work with them from the get go like from the time they're in their mid 40s on so that you have to try to, you know, make up for lost time. So but it's definitely doable. So you have to work on weight loss, exercise, all the lifestyle things, but get them onto a physiologic dose of estradiol to control their immune system and to start lowering it, get their, you know, improve their gut microbiome, heal up the leaky gut and help them to stop having the systemic inflammation which drives the estrogen production so that this doesn't have to be it doesn't have to be its nature with added to worse for women that were no but we can, we can control this in terms of estrogen metabolites. When you talk about like you know, the different phase three, phase four or phase two, you know, you know, phase one and two, they're like more in the intestine three, four or more in the liver. And then you have the strap along where you have enzymes like beta glucuronidation, and so on, which I'll touch on. So you want to do everything to restore functionality of the GI tract detoxification. I do a lot of ultrasound ordering of the abdomen looking at not you know, I look at the gallbladder. A lot of women have gallstones. You want to know that and also their liver because now it's called metabolic steatosis. non alcoholic fatty liver is highly prevalent in women who are in the menopause, and they all have impaired gut barrier. They all have dysbiosis so you got to work extra hard. And the thing that works to help restore it, like proper immune function, lower inflammation, and lower ectopic fat in the liver and elsewhere, is by doing prolong the fasting, mimicking diet along with time restricted eating, and as much as you can to get towards a goal high intensity interval training, you can actually get rid of this ectopic fat but also the visceral and belly fat. So there are ways to do this. And of course, you know, there are drug therapies now like you know what, go V Manjaro and so on, but they I have, that's another conversation. I have concerns about right now. The amount of lean body mass that gets lost along with the fat and that's and the lack of longevity in terms of people sticking on these drugs. Based on the will go V's own data, you know, out of Novo Nordisk I'm looking at their data and it's not very appealing right now. So I'm not sure that this is going to really be the solution for everybody. And we can create our own GLP one naturally by eating a really high fiber diet, exercising and having adequate estradiol and then incorporating fasting mimicking diets and such. So it's really doable, but you know, women who are already in a bad metabolic state and they're in menopause, they really need high intensive care to work on getting proper estrogen metabolites. The biggest risk for breast cancer in menopausal women is weight gain and obesity. The absolute biggest and quartz that goes along with systemic inflammation. In terms of the gut microbiome, it's an interesting thing. Beta glucuronidation that breaks down and recycles estrogen back into the circulation is actually a benefit. In some circumstances, like why would the gut even do such a thing? Okay, so I always go back to reproduction and fertility. So women, what women other than menopausal women have no estrogen production, breastfeeding women with postpartum women. So how does nature provide enough estrogen for women whose ovaries are not functioning? It's through recycling, the amount that you do have through the gut and the beta glucuronic days is actually beneficial for postpartum women to increase their estradiol levels. So you know, everything that sort of seems wrong is actually right, in a different circumstance. Okay. So, nature didn't put the ability to make beta glucuronidation and recycle estrogen for no good reason. But it actually can help some women in menopause too. So don't think down with all beta glucuronidation sometimes it's very, very beneficial in terms of upping the amount of estrogen circulating, but what we don't want is having all kinds of s drone and lots of inflammation and then having the wrong metabolic byproducts of estrogen detoxification. So that's why I women who are metabolically unhealthy, really need your care so intensively and sometimes before starting hormones, you may want to do like a detox before you even start the hormones to try to help to improve gut liver health. But the reality is that it's one of those catch 20 twos without having extra dial on board, nothing can work properly. So even if you want to start a little bit low initially and then work your way up, and there's no data um, you know, you know that we're on our own for so much of these things. And because no one's doing the study so we have science, but we don't always have clinical data, but our patients live in the here and now you can't like wait for the clinical data when the heck is that coming? And by the way, yesterday, of me it was really horrible. The menopause society came out with a statement a letter that I got in the my email that was saying how there are these doctors online? I don't know if they were talking about me. I don't know. I don't think I'm under under radar, but I don't think I'm on their radar. But they talked about these doctors online who are promoting estrogen for functions for benefits other than night sweats, hot flashes, bone health and genital urinary issues, and like things like brain health, cardiovascular health, any musculoskeletal benefit other than bone. They said no, you cannot do this. And we are the definitive word like Who the heck are you anyway, menopause. Society? They said we are the definitive word like nah, I didn't elect you. So anyway, this is what's out there you guys if you're like doing hormones, the menopause society wants to stamp you out. They want to stamp me out. So you know it was very horrible letter, but you can probably find it online. The that they put out yesterday from the menopause society, but it just, you know, like, oozed out like, arrogance and ridiculousness, but that's what's out there. I

Bill Clearfield  1:33:45
know they're you know that their big form of backs you know that right?

Speaker 4  1:33:49
Well, I know if you go to their place all the exhibit hall stuff is 100%. Big Pharma. So yes, they are big pharma backed. Yes.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:58
So you know,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:01
one quick one quick question then. Shut up. How about vaginal dryness.

Speaker 4  1:34:10
Okay. So estriol is fine for vaginal atrophy. I actually

Speaker 3  1:34:17
come across the border illegally. You've got to stay in Mexico. You've got to go back through proper

Speaker 4  1:34:22
hoops, okay. So I personally prefer from Astra dial for the reason I said because the bladder is more Alpha than beta. And estriol is mostly at present beta and it's estriol is also a weaker binder to the estrogen receptors, but there's plenty of data showing that estriol is beneficial so estriol is totally fine for a vaginal like rejuvenation. But if I had a choice, I actually prefer estradiol because it works on fibroblasts and it works better on the bladder itself. But um estriol is very good I also use vaginal DHEA.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:06
Very good, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:09
Okay, there's a couple of questions in the chat if you could take those sets. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:17
Well, can you read them to me? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  1:35:20
Yep. So let's see. When do you measure estradiol relative to your last dose?

Speaker 4  1:35:31
Okay, so there's no clear you know, it's a little bit like thyroid, you know, like, what do you do? So, I usually say measure it in the morning before you apply your first application. If for some reason you can't do that, then get it at like the tail end of the day. So I don't actually want to get it like within an hour or two of application for the patches. If someone's using the patches I say the day after it's put on so that's how I do it. And then I usually then you know, I think okay, this is like around the average level or a little bit lower than depending on you know, what the product is. So I then kind of make my estimates of of how it's doing at that level, because I don't want the lowest of the day to be too low. Okay, I'm not afraid of extra dial I would rather a little bit higher, I mean, not crazy high, you know, but a little bit higher than too low.

Bill Clearfield  1:36:33
Okay, is there an interference between estradiol and replacement dose of levothyroxine?

Speaker 4  1:36:41
Um, no, but it's really interesting though. Astra dial will actually have a lot of benefits on thyroid. So there are receptors on the thyroid gland for estradiol. So when you have adequate estradiol present, often the thyroid gland will work better and I've had patients that had borderline hypothyroid like maybe they had a TSH of five something. I got them on optimal hormone replacement. They had maybe estradiol levels of essentially zero and then that got them up to around 100 or so. And their, their TSH went down into the normal range just by getting their estradiol replaced properly. So I wouldn't like take someone who's severely hypothyroid and think I'm going to treat them with estradiol, but someone who has subclinical hypothyroidism and they're just getting started and their estradiol level is like zero. I will say, let's, let's try this for a month or two. You know, they're not like dying from my bowl thyroidism they're just like, you know, it's borderline ish or mild, then because often it will actually improve the other thing that's interesting is that, in order to make thyroid, you need to have certain very critical nutrients. So often the gut isn't working well without estradiol and you don't have proper digestion and by getting the estradiol on board and then giving them some general supplementation like if they need it if they're actually iron deficient, or a little bit of food that have iodine in you know, small amounts of iodine, I'm not into mega dosing at all of iodine, and selenium, zinc, that type of thing that like essential nutrients to make thyroid hormone that they'll actually that's another reason why they can actually repair their own thyroid gland. So if you're just starting someone on on an extra dial and they're already on thyroid, I wouldn't make any adjustments to their thyroid until they've been on the extra dial for a couple of months. Because you may find that you can actually lower their dose because they're going to be more functional, and they will also convert better from T four to T three, so you don't have to add T three either because they'll actually make that conversion properly.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:55
How How long should a woman be on a on each dose? Of an estrogen patch before it can be increased?

Speaker 4  1:39:03
Um, there's no you know, it's very individualized but you know, I would say if they're doing like if they're not doing well, like if they're still having night sweats or hot flashes and you I would like change it in one month. I usually have people come back in six weeks, okay to give it a fair chance. So I would say like you know, you can change it in six weeks.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:26
Okay, I'm pretty sure you answered this one and I can answer this one. If a woman had a partial hysterectomy do they need to take from progesterone in the form of prometrium?

Speaker 4  1:39:35
Yes, because progesterone just like one progesterone is neuro protective progesterone helps maintain the myelin sheath that maintains neuron function. It's very good for the skin for the bones. So it helps you sleep it helps you to make GABA so progesterone has many functions throughout the body, it's very anti inflammatory, so it helps to suppress inflammation as well. So and all of these hormones are fascinating estradiol and progesterone. That would be another whole lecture. They work intimately interconnected ly with the endocannabinoid system, so you need to have progesterone progesterone, like every single thing in the body is multitasking. There is no peptide that does one thing there is no enzyme that does one thing. There is no hormone that does one thing and progesterone does many things and is really a beautiful teammate of estradiol. And you definitely want progesterone whether you have a uterus or not. That is a really important thing that our conventional medical world does not acknowledge.

Speaker 5  1:40:42
What is the role of phyto estrogen such as soy in menopause, because right now, there's a lot of conflicting information, I'm not sure.

Speaker 4  1:40:53
I love phyto estrogen foods, in fact, almost all the phyto nutrients that are sold as you know, supplements, they're all phyto estrogens, I did a deep search on all of them. They're all phyto estrogens for soy has been so maligned. It's just a bean you know, it's a soy bean. And it's high in protein. It's very nutritious, but it's been you know, converted into all kinds of garbage, ultra processed food, but if you and it's you know, very heavily GMO, but if you get organic, non GMO soy and that is a it's out there and you get it minimally processed, so it would be only tofu, edamame me, Tempe me so that's it. No other form of soy not soy pretending to be hamburger hotdogs, cheese go Who knows what right not that kind of soy just regular organic soy minimally or not processed. It's a great ISO flavonoids are great. Now, a lot of problems come in. If you don't have the right gut microbiome, you don't convert the ISO flavonoids into equal. But you know, we're working on trying to get everybody's gut microbiome as optimized as possible. When you look at other phyto estrogens like the stilbene family. That's like red grapes. Resveratrol is a phyto estrogen. So these are really important if you look at quesiton whereas the 10 is a phyto. Estrogen like you can find it in apples and garlic and onions and you're living in a live love your lithium a I use the product from pure encapsulations because I like them but they also have Mito pure from timeline, but the Euro lithium A is a phyto estrogen and it's predominantly Alpha. That's what people don't know it's more Alpha than it is beta isoflavones are are mostly beta. If you look at like the product s Provera for metagenics. That's from the root of the Siberian rhubarb plant that is almost 100% exclusively beta receptor agonists. And then you have like from seeds, nuts and seeds, you have lignans. The most famous plant or seed that is lignin full is flax seeds. Okay, so flax seeds are very healthy, and it can help women who are reproductive age cycle better but not seed cycling, because that's not evidence based. But just eating seeds and flax seeds, their published data that it can help women with their fertility. Soy is a fertility food. Okay. And the UK there's actually the study that was done by oh, now I'm blanking out on his name. He's a vegan cardiologist who's quite renowned. And he, Neil Barnard Neil Barnard published a study a few years ago, where he took women in menopause, who had very significant night sweats and hot flashes, gave them a cup of soybeans every day for 12 weeks, and almost 100% had almost 100% resolution of their night sweats and hot flashes. That's how great phytonutrients are in the form of phyto estrogens. I love them. It's I call it nature's gift to women. Because no matter how we give hormones, it's not the same as being 21. So we want to use all our therapeutic modalities and phyto estrogen foods are a really big one. Plus they have all this wonderful fiber that's going to increase GLP one and they have all the the vitamins, minerals micronutrients. So pro pro pro phyto estrogen foods

Unknown Speaker  1:44:26
good thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:44:27
Thank you can progesterone moderate xs s drone?

Speaker 4  1:44:34
I'm not especially but it is useful. Not that there's any data on that but progesterone is anti inflammatory, okay, and it down it can down regulate estrogen receptors. So I mean, I don't think that if you have someone who is like massively or even significantly obese and is full of visceral fat and so on, that you just give them progesterone and they're gonna like don't get rid of all their estrogen production. I don't think it's that good. That that said giving it with estradiol and doing all the other lifestyle. You can I believe you can I believe you can get, you know, the anti inflammatory benefits in terms of having progesterone on board, but I don't know of any studies that show that it will lower estrogen production but when you think about it, I think it could be definitely part of the solution, not the solution, but it could be a part of

Bill Clearfield  1:45:33
okay, if a woman has an ablation, how does she shed her lining if she takes us to dial

Unknown Speaker  1:45:39
there is no lining.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:42
I'm asking the question, so we're no

Speaker 4  1:45:44
binding. That's why that's the amazing thing about a you literally like obliterate the lining there is no endometrium. It's just myometrium and that's it. There is no endometrium.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:02
Okay, can you still prescribe estradiol to women with endometriosis add no meiosis cycling it with progesterone.

Speaker 4  1:46:10
Well, of course there's no good published data but you the answer is yes. But you need to do everything to lower inflammation. I I have not seen because it's just not the same as having a reproductive aged kind of hormone scenario it is not I have not had any activation of of either one. But it is hypothetically a possibility to have activation of that but it's um, it's not really highly probable. One of the reasons that women have endometriosis will put at no meiosis in a different category is because they have problems with their progesterone receptors, and local inflammation in the pelvis and so on. And it's just a different scenario, you're not going to have the same degree of pro inflammatory prostaglandins produced because it's not really a menstrual cycle in the same way, you know, so, I have not seen that happen. But if you have a patient with a history of that, those are women you might want to give higher doses of progesterone, and I would always warn them the same thing with uterine fibroids. I have had very rare problems. I can't say zero but very rare problems of stimulating the growth of uterine fibroids either, but I think it's important that they are told that there is at least a hypothetical chance that you could activate those things by giving them the hormones and then becomes a personal choice. And if they say, You know what, I don't want any chance. Then obviously, you're going to give them teensy doses. That's, you know what, that's what they'll choose, which is still better than no doses.

Bill Clearfield  1:48:01
Okay, what about aromatase inhibitors in that in that scenario, or with uterine fibroids to shrink them?

Speaker 4  1:48:10
Well, there's interesting with aromatase inhibitors that you're in Okay, so inflammation up regulates the enzyme aromatase. So when you have inflammation in the pelvis, like with endometriosis, you have like extreme inflammation in the pelvis. It Up regulates local aromatase in the peritoneum, and it could end so you'll end up having like locally produced s drone, it's typically as drone from the precursor androgens from the adrenal gland. And so you end up predominantly with estrogen in the pelvis, which then creates a lot of growth factors which then promotes the growth of this and atrial implants. So that for endometriosis, it hasn't really caught on as a big treatment, but it has been proposed to give aromatase inhibitors for for uterine fibroids, you can actually have inflammation in the myometrium which activates local aromatase in the myometrium to produce a growth, growth factors that stimulate the growth of the uterine fibroids. Giving hormones in the menopause tends to not create the same the same effect that I've seen probably because the doses really are not, you'd never get the spikes you never have it's not really as high as it is and you don't have the same prostaglandins that are produced and so on. But aromatase inhibitors there was one study I found a while back where they had breast cancer patients. They gave the breast cancer patients that had breast they had positive receptors for estrogen. They gave them aromatase inhibitors and then they gave them hormone therapy. And guess what they did great. They did fine that never caught on in the oncology world at all. Because what you're blocking with the aromatase inhibitor just as you would with giving it to someone who has a no matrial says uterine fibroids, you're blocking the production locally of estrogen locally while you're still giving systemic levels of estrogen to all the other organ systems. I think it's a brilliant idea. I really do. But if you give enough estrogen, you're going to replace it where you need it. And then you block it. Well you don't

Bill Clearfield  1:50:35
oh, sorry about that. Somebody talked in Dr. Gersh, you're muted, unfortunately. Can you unmute again?

Unknown Speaker  1:50:46
Um, can you hear me now?

Bill Clearfield  1:50:48
Yeah, yeah, you're good. That was my fault. No, no,

Speaker 4  1:50:51
I forgive you. You're a nice guy. If you know if you want me to stop, just say we're done. Oh, no.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:58
Somebody, somebody came in and one of my co hosts the look

Speaker 4  1:51:01
no problem. But anyway, I think you're brilliant. I think that's a brilliant idea. It has been tested and I guess discarded, you know, for breast cancer. I don't.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:13
Half dozen times myself for patient makes. It makes actually done well with it. But for uterine fibroids, we've actually done quite well with it.

Speaker 4  1:51:22
You know, when you understand that inflammation up regulates aromatase, I mean, the ultimate goal is to not have all that inflammation, of course, so you're not up regulating it, but at least short term if you can, you unblock the aromatase, you're going to block the estrogen stimulation. But then if you give back estrogen at least you get it to all the other places that you want it. Okay.

Bill Clearfield  1:51:46
What's your opinion of the protocol

Speaker 4  1:51:50
so wildly I think is brilliant. But not tested and not research and the dosing are completely off the wall. In most cases, they're giving massive doses of estradiol and I've actually measured people on them and you get you can get levels like 800 or 600. I mean, this is so I think your

Bill Clearfield  1:52:10
original one they were giving 800 or 1000 milligrams of progesterone every day. I mean,

Speaker 4  1:52:15
the dosing 20 years ago, yeah, yeah, no, but they still don't know. I mean, there's no published data. So I would say if you actually I mean, because I think you know, mimicking nature is the best way to go. But if you really want to do something that's more widely ish, then I would start with much lower doses and what was recommended start much lower and then see how the person is doing. No one should go into that unless they're dedicated to working on rearranging doses and all kinds of things and possibly having uterine biopsies if they have uncontrolled bleeding and ultrasounds, and figuring it's going to take a minimum of a year to try to get it right in most cases, right. So it's really it's an enterprise and undertaking that very few women will ever stick with and do. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:53:10
so my understanding was it was it was formulated by somebody that was

Speaker 4  1:53:16
she has no medical background, no medical background, but you know, it's a rational idea. Okay. It's just hasn't been, it hasn't been taken to any research type of depth, you know, so, you know, it's basically every patient becomes a little you know, experiment.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:37
Alright, what level of testosterone do you recommend for postmenopausal women?

Speaker 4  1:53:44
Well, there's no good data on that, you know, the only approved use of testosterone in women is what's called hypoactive sexual desire disorder. And what the heck is that? It means a woman thinks in her head. I wish I wanted to have more sex. But I really don't, but I wish I did. That's hypoactive sexual desire disorder. So if a woman never had sex, and she could care less Jen, she doesn't have that disorder. If she has sex once a week, but she thinks she should want it twice a week, but she really doesn't then she has it. Okay, so it's a very weird condition. But um, in terms of tones, and that doesn't even involve levels or anything. So what I look at is a typical reference range for the reproductive aged woman. And so I like to go mid range like so I figure if they're in the single digits when you measure testosterone, total testosterone, okay, if you measure total testosterone, and the reference ranges, like, but we'll say like, three to 48, or something like that, you want to sort of be in the mid range. If they're in the single digits. They're too low. And I think they would benefit from from testosterone, especially if you've got two different tests and they're two times and then they both were really low like in the single digits. If they're in the teens. Then I would go by symptoms like say you have a woman who has a history of hair thinning androgenic alopecia and acne. She may not really appreciate going on more testosterone because she may not like it. You might want to get sex hormone binding globulin because 99% of testosterone is bound 80% to sex hormone binding globulin, little changes in sexual non binding globulin will allow more free testosterone, but you've met you can measure free testosterone but it's not really the numbers are so tiny in women that they're not really reliable testing just so you know, you're better off getting a you can get it but it's not reliable, but you can get a total and look at sex hormone binding globulin fits in the bottom half, you're gonna have more Unbound, okay, so keep that in mind. Because the last thing you want is your women patients to get more hair thinning facial hair and acne when they're, you know, you know, that's, you know, think of like elderly women in nursing home, you know, that you've seen they all have really thin fine hair, and they all have whiskers. Like, do you think you want to give them testosterone? It's because they have such low sex hormone binding globulin that they have more unbound testosterone, which is what acts on the tissue. So it's a it's a really finessing thing that testosterone in women, but every it has nothing to do directly with menopause. And in fact, testosterone production often increases in the early menopause and perimenopause because of LH going up LH triggers that testosterone production in the ovary so they may have elevated levels plus declining estrogen will increase what rather will reduce their sex hormone binding globulin. That's why some women in the perimenopause, early menopause suddenly start getting facial hair and acne. They say what the heck you know, so don't give those women testosterone please.

Speaker 5  1:57:01
Right. One question I have is breast cancer is getting younger and younger. Since the mid 1990s. You know, tracking has gone up a lot. And as you said, Xeno estrogens being the problem. What are your thoughts about it? And how do you prevent this early onset of breast cancer young woman?

Speaker 4  1:57:24
Well, it's horrible and it's a it's complex. You know, it also has to do with the gut microbiome. We know women who have breast cancer have a different gut microbiome because it always becomes like which came first chicken egg that altered gut microbiome or the breast cancer, but we know that there's more changes in the gut microbiome in breast cancer, early aged exposures to endocrine disruptors, you know, set the stage like exposures in your teens. can lead to breast cancer when you're 40. I should I just say, you know, try very hard to avoid pesticide herbicide. That's like some big, big problems. You know, all the different endocrine disruptors Xeno estrogens is horrible. You know, the increase in in breast cancer in young women. And you know, the nobody really cares you know about the causation like you're saying, it's, you know, it's like with colon cancer. Look at the problem with increase in colon cancer in young adults. Now they're talking about the gastric cancers are more prevalent in young adults, and with a higher rate of metastases and higher fatality rates. So we're getting all these cancers in young people. I think it has to do with having C sections not breastfeeding. Lots of antibiotics, and all these endocrine disruptors that are interfering with normal immune function, and I sure don't have a good answer other than for every mother preconception to try to do everything to have everything organic as natural avoidance of chemicals to the whole pregnancy when you have Gene You know, modification in terms of expression throughout all the critical stages of life, and forever. You know, it's I wish I had better answers.

Bill Clearfield  1:59:19
Okay. We

Speaker 5  1:59:21
should preconception counseling, include organic food, and all of these things are probably everybody should get preconception counseling.

Speaker 4  1:59:33
Yes. 100% 100%. No, I mean, obviously, many pregnancies are unplanned. But the reproductive age women should know all this stuff. Yeah, absolutely. Because I mean, reproductive age mentioned no to you know, but which is all men had every age right is potentially reproductive, but absolutely pre conceptual counseling can change the outcome of the whole life of the child and the outcome of the pregnancy that involves of course maternal morbidity and mortality.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:10
Okay, we have we have more questions in the chat but we have someone line also that you know, we have I don't know if you know this, but we have a big crowd from the Philippines has joined us in the last few weeks. So, Dr. Nereo, you want

Unknown Speaker  2:00:23
Yes, I'm on. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:00:25
well, why don't you take over take over from there you go, okay.

Speaker 4  2:00:30
I was just gonna say um, I think maybe another like, to the hour would be okay, that's fine. That's good. Because my husband get mad because I'm not giving him any dinner. Give me dinner.

Speaker 3  2:00:50
Well, here's some questions for you through emails. And one of the things that was mentioned there was I think you were a proponent of Perlon. So there was also a theory, I think, I heard is also in IFM, that during the perimenopausal period, they were not promoting intermittent fasting because the stress on the guests being ovaries actually will increase cortisol demands of that specific situation already for pairpoint, perimenopausal women. What are your thoughts on those?

Speaker 4  2:01:25
Okay, well during COVID What happens when you do prolong is that during the fasting portion, the the immune system actually goes down a little bit, the number of white cells goes down, and then it sort of springs back out when you do the refeeding. So there was a concern that perhaps you may become more immune vulnerable when you're at like the, during the the last couple of days of the fasting mimicking diet because your white count actually drops and then it comes back. So in terms of reproductive aged women, the time to do any form of fasting other than like fasting during the day, I mean, like not snacking, that kind of thing. But like in terms of many multi day fasting, whether with water fasting or prolonged it should always be done in the luteal phase after ovulation. They've had studies showing that if you do fasting during the follicular phase, you may prevent ovulation altogether. Or you may have a lowered spike of both LH and estradiol and have a sub optimal ovulation. So we would only want to do any kind of real fasting in the luteal phase. In terms of perimenopause and menopause. I keep talking to Valter Longo hopefully we'll get some real studies done, but I never start people out on fasting mimicking diets until I've like prepped them to try to help them to be metabolically flexible, you know, so that they can convert from burning glucose into burning fat. It's not where I would start anybody because you will fail big time. So I would want to get them first started on hormones for at least say two months and have them do like a detox and have them get started on better lifestyle things work on metabolic flexibility before I would touch going into a fasting mimicking diet because you will met have an unhappy patient and they will I already found out the hard way I learned this the hard way okay, that they are just gonna start eating I don't know why this is but it's like happened multiple times. Peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. In the middle of prolong they just start eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. So don't do it. That will not be happy campus and neither were you.

Speaker 3  2:03:57
All right. Well, here's the dosing maybe it's a regimen and Clara protocol clarification. So you're saying cycle progesterone, for estrogen, would you cycle that as well or you just want to go straight from one to 30?

Speaker 4  2:04:11
Well, um, normally I just do the same dose all the time, but anyone who wants to if do you have does everyone have my email? I had to think ahead on the line again, send it out. We'll shoot it Okay. Anyone who wants to if they want to email me, I will get you a copy of my free menopause ebook. I'm happy to give that out to anyone here. And I can give you the information. I'm not pressuring anybody, just for people who want to. I have a little hormone course that people can access and it goes into a way of using like estrogen patches and progesterone pills to have a little bit of a cycling regimen so that it's a little bit more than just progesterone that gets pulsed I call that post progesterone or cyclic progesterone, but you actually have a little bit of, of hormone up and down during the cycle for people. That's like, I'll call it for patients and practitioners who actually want to get a little bit more advanced. But I learned also that it's hard enough to get people to do much of anything, especially like having a period again, and because they will have a period and putting up with that and taking the progesterone two weeks and then not being on it. It's hard to get people to do that, let alone have different doses on different days, you know, but for people who are into like more advanced, I have it in my course plus all the basics. All

Speaker 3  2:05:38
right. For the people who actually receives progesterone initially and they have a reaction. What is the explanation for that?

Speaker 4  2:05:47
Well, the biggest reaction is the sedation effect by they start making too much GABA and so they get sort of dizzy or sleepy. So that's like the biggest reaction. It could be, you know, if you giving, like the commercial product that they're reacting to the peanut oil or some other ingredient that's in the actual pill itself, the coloring or something else. So if they have a problem with the commercial product, I'll usually switch to a compounded one and then see how they do on that. I will. If they wake up during the night they don't sleep through then I will switch them to a compounded sustained release product. If they feel too groggy in the morning. As long as they're not driving or doing something amazingly important. I'll tell them to start taking the progesterone two or three hours earlier than they were so that hopefully it'll be kind of worn off by the time they wake up in the morning. For people who no matter what you do, they won't tolerate it. Then you're stuck. Okay. You either give them compounded progesterone cream, and that's really high dosing because the absorption is highly variable. We don't have any good published data. So you got to be willing to get ultrasounds and potentially endometrial biopsies because you don't really know how protective it is. And then the other option if nothing is tolerated, it's not ideal, but it's something that can be done one of two things, they can have a Mirena IUD, these are not my favorites, okay, but you can get a Mirena IUD which will be uterine protective then you have no progesterone of course or you could do once every three months, a two week course of the progestin norethindrone at five milligrams for two weeks just to shed the lining and you live without the progesterone but you know, you have to deal with reality. You know, if people can't tolerate it, what are you going to do at certain point, but those are two options.

Speaker 3  2:07:49
Right? You mentioned about low doses or of estrogen or inflammatory. So what is your recommendation of a good starting dose for your estrogens?

Speaker 4  2:08:00
Well, if you have a woman that's only recently postmenopausal, I'll typically just start them if I'm doing a patch, point one patch the if it's a gel, the high like two pumps, if it's Astra gel, the 1.25 of the Divi gel because the highest dose is not really high. And then I tell them, if you have severe breast tenderness, it's not dangerous at all. But if it's a patch just for now for a month or two or three even, we'll just have just cut the patch in half. Okay, just and just see how you feel. We'll just cut the dose and see how you feel. I always warn them that type of thing that if they have too much for them, it's not really like it's too much. It may may not even be a high amount when you test it but they're not. They're just extra sensitive and their receptors are sort of kind of getting rebooted and that type of thing for an older woman. You know, it's also variable based on their their health. If they're really metabolically unhealthy. That's where the hypothetical risk comes in with an older woman. So I'll definitely work on all the different lifestyle things. In fact, I mandated for them they don't other people, it's optional, but for them, you know, if I'm going to be prescribing to someone who's 70 and they're metabolically unhealthy, they have to do what I say or I'm not going to prescribe. Okay, it's hypothetical, but I'm not going to and a lot of the, by the way, they're showing that it may have to do with the gut microbiome, that there's any risk so you really want to work on the gut microbiome big time. Okay. And, you know, check you know, for other measures of cardiovascular health and so on. And I will start off in very low for those people. Like if I'm using a patch, it will be the you know, the point oh, two five milligram patch and it's but I'm going to try to move up pretty quickly, okay, because I just want to see how they do and but I won't rush the I will tell them they have to do all these other things to improve their metabolic health. But in terms of like the more typical younger patient, I just usually start them at the highest dose for compounded estradiol. I'll usually say well, why don't we just try starting not to highlight maybe one milligram estradiol twice a day, and then see how you do you know, and we can rapidly increase it. If you know it. You rarely have to go below that. You know, the dosing is different for every way that you prescribe it. And topical bio identical estradiol is not as well absorbed as the commercial products. So the dosing usually has to go considerably higher in terms of milligrams.

Speaker 3  2:10:40
Alright, Dr. Gersh. I think there's so many questions through but we want to be respectful of your time. It was a great presentation as always, and we'll we'll definitely give you time to cook dinner for your husband. You don't want him to be angry at us. Right? Well, that's

Speaker 4  2:10:55
great. And I, um, this is another option that I haven't planned it yet. But for those who are really interested in this topic in the future, I'm hoping within 2025 I'll create like some other courses and mentorships. So when that happens, I'll let you know. And then you can let the people know that they're even interested in such a thing, then, because I really want to help.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:19
Yeah, we'll send you their contact lists from tonight's participants also, okay,

Speaker 4  2:11:24
and then everything, you know, it's just, I, you know, I want to help people, that's why I'm here with you guys.

Bill Clearfield  2:11:32
Okay, well, you know,

Speaker 5  2:11:33
last question is, how do we get more obese to participate in functional medicine like you did?

Speaker 4  2:11:43
Well, I am doing my best I speak all around the world, often to OBGYN and trying to recruit them to understand women's bodies better. I mean, they're just not taught, you know, and then you get crazy organizations like the menopause who self declared themselves the definitive word, and then they put out this crap, you know, but I'm trying to counter that every which way. That's why I'm trying I tried to get articles published in mainstream journals to talk about hormones, and the editors are often really enthusiastic and then they get hardly any readership. But I'm not giving up I'm working on this. And there are a few other people out there out there in the world trying so, you know, this is the data. It's so shocking. At the time of the Women's Health Initiative before just before it came out at all ages 40% of menopausal women were on hormone replacement therapy may not have been the right but they were on 40% Were on it today in the group aged 50 to 60. It's only 4% nationwide. That's what's happened from that the gift of the gift that won't stop giving from the Women's Health Initiative.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:53
One last thing before you give Can you make it just a comment on this business about you're only supposed to give hormones for 10 years after after menopause?

Speaker 4  2:13:02
Well, of course, that's absurd. The real question is How old is too old to start and we can talk about that as well in the future, but in terms of continuing once they're on it would be comparable to saying when should you stop the thyroid hormone, right? If there is no end date, because the hormones are always here's here's a very good takeaway from that to end this. Every cell in your body is a different age. There's only a very small percentage of cells that were there the day you were born, right, a few you know, like neurons, myocardial cells, all the other cells of the body have died and been replaced at all different speeds and intervals. So when a cell is born from a stem cell, it doesn't know how old the body is that it's inhabiting. They are genetically programmed to do whatever they're supposed to do. If they get what they need the right micronutrients, macronutrients and hormones and so on, they will do what they're programmed to do. So I have absolutely no reason to think that I should ever stop giving the right food, the right exercise, the right sleep and the right hormones at any age, because all the cells are waiting to just get what they should get. So they can do their job optimally.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:18
Yeah, I mean, I agree. I mean, that's why I always say so so so you're 65 When we're supposed to stop everything. I mean, that's absurd.

Speaker 4  2:14:26
Of course, no, like just put them in the grave and covered. No, you know, medicine writes people off at a certain age and I don't agree.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:37
Yeah, yeah. So. Okay, one last one. So, pre menopausal female on hormones. Did you wanted to know when you cycle progesterone, do you mean two weeks on two weeks off?

Speaker 4  2:14:54
Oh, for perimenopause, if they're still having cycles, but they have symptoms. Then I go with their cycle. I try to match their cycle. Okay, if their cycles are really short, I will sometimes try to manipulate it a little bit. Like say they have a luteal phase that's only 10 days. Okay, something like that. I will still tell them to take the progesterone for 14 You know, and I may manipulate a little bit to see if I can get them to have a little bit longer like luteal phase. But I'm mostly going like, like paralleling their own cycle. So i That's why I call it supplementation, not replacement. I'm augmenting. I'm giving them a safety net and trying to give a little raise.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:40
Okay, great. Okay, we're gonna let you go. Okay. I can't thank you enough as always, Dr. gursha You're the best. And you know, we love having you as always so well. It's

Speaker 4  2:15:52
my pleasure. And you know, having so much interest in hormones is just really heartwarming to me because it's part of my mission and to create a legacy of having a whole bunch of people out there who love hormones and want to give them

Bill Clearfield  2:16:07
you have big fans here. So don't forget us.

Speaker 4  2:16:11
I will not you know, you stay in touch with me. Okay. Absolutely. All right. Have a good night everybody or wherever you are in the world.

Bill Clearfield  2:16:21
Okay, thank you. So just a little bit of housekeeping. If you want CME credits, to AMA CME credits by the way, Dr. Gersh

Speaker 4  2:16:30
oh, I want credit. What do I just do whatever you let me know, text me, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:16:34
I'll send it to you. Okay. There's the link right there. We get to AMA category one CME credits, it's $30 for two credits, and just there's the link up I put it on the in the email every week and one of these days I'll get become uneasy and put it on the website also. With all the other ones that that have been accredited for us. We've had a little hiatus there. Next week. We have our own stuff on Hartman and he is going to discuss apocalyptic Medical Necessities. So when the the the missiles are incoming, he's going to he's going to get to teach us all about the you know what you need to have stocked up to survive the big one that I get that right stuff on? Yeah, pretty much. All right. So that'll be next week. But anybody have any, any any other questions? You know, Dr. Peterson's here, Carol's here and I'm here and there were some more questions here. I don't you know, we're not Dr. Gersh. But there are some questions that weren't answered. Do you have any secundario that are left?

Speaker 3  2:17:53
Yeah, there's some here still that. I mean, it's something that probably she would also answer the same. So there was an issue that was brought up here that when you have osteoporosis already, they're saying that the effect this is conventional recommendations that do not seeing any gel type of estrogen or cream type or patch estrogen that should be given to these patients. It's always going to be P O combined with by phosphonates. And that's, I think that was the question if that is something that she backs up, and they're saying that P O estrogen is pretty safe. So these are basically more conventional recommendations. But in terms of osteoporosis, we still want to make sure we give our estrogens regardless is whatever bone structure is left. It's still going to be maintained. That's why he's still staying. I mean, our caution always will always be on the PO what type of estrogen in relation to clotting. I don't know. What are your thoughts on that?

Speaker 6  2:18:56
I have. I have something to say I did a big dive on this because a lot of these studies that came out were comparing oral estrogen which happened to be Premarin that is Shaddai. Ill with topical either the patch or the gels. And so they were coming up with all kinds of things more fibrin fibrinogen, more C reactive protein, but it was always Premarin. There are a few rare studies with estradiol versus estradiol, oral versus topical, and they don't look as bad. I tried to contact the drug company even to ask them about s trace and the generics. They've been on the market nearly nearly about the same time as Premarin. As oral estrogen. And they simply do not have all those effects that Premarin has. So I think oral estrogen is probably safer than we think and I I hate when they bring these studies out and say oral estrogen and it's Premarin, it's not estradiol. So a lot of the literature is very confused with that. So I agree the other thing I want to say is estradiol is much more potent with new for for the bones than as trio. So I consider it another another reason why you might tilt that way. And let me see what else Oh, you should not be giving estradiol alone like this man with hysterectomies, you're going to have an increase in prolactin, which is going to increase parathyroid hormone will pull calcium out of your bones. So we've done a big disservice giving women after hysterectomy estrogen only telling them it's going to help their bones it's likely not and probably detrimental during the prior uses, and she's the one who has really studied osteoporosis. And the big hormone there is progesterone and she uses at least 300 milligrams daily for osteoporosis. So Dr. Kirsch, too. That's a she she doesn't tend to go higher. I was the Osteoporosis those studies were done with oral in oil from atrium probably. Yeah, doctor

Speaker 3  2:21:31
prior also, I saw one of her studies 300 milligrams for migraines. Yeah.

Speaker 6  2:21:37
For hot flashes, too. Yeah. Yeah. It's, we too many things are being credited as a estrogen deficiency. She's also published that impairing menopause women have the highest levels of estrogen in their whole lifetime. And then contrasted with women starting to miss ovulation. So their progesterone is lower and lower. So this this differential between the estrogen stimulation and the moderating effect of progesterone is lost a lot. And that leads to a great deal of symptoms.

Bill Clearfield  2:22:18
Carol, do you have any experience with de cycling progesterone for menopausal women?

Speaker 6  2:22:22
Um, I agree with when you're psyched when somebody is cycling just cycle along with them. That's what I think. But um, Ray Pete actually said something like, what should a menopausal woman look like? And he said, ideally, you'd have the same level of hormones as you had just before men arc and that would be steady state. There's no cycling involved there. So I tend to favor steady state after menopause.

Bill Clearfield  2:23:00
Okay, there's, there's a question about the estrogen brand patch. That causes less dermatological reactions. Does anybody have any answer to that? I mean, I don't. I don't, you know, usually we get just get the generic, you know, that's usually what the patients end up with. So Okay. Our soy phyto estrogens binding mainly to beta or alpha receptors.

Speaker 6  2:23:25
Then chances are that I thought I thought I heard her say beta. Yeah,

Speaker 3  2:23:29
okay. Oh, you'll be you'll be surprised. Now. There's a company that's rallying for soy. So I was in that integrative dermatology symposium, and they're saying that there's no such thing as GMO soy. And any, any soy that you see is always a phyto. Estrogen, meaning it's a healthy type of estrogen. So I asked him about that. And they just had this big debate about it. But just to give you a heads up, there's a group out there. That's actually saying there's no such thing as GMO soy in the US.

Speaker 6  2:23:59
It's what might not be GMO, but it's covered with Glice of fate and stuff.

Bill Clearfield  2:24:07
Yeah, there's also there's also a group and I'm sure because I get an email from them, that they're called the immunological group, once a week and they are there's nothing wrong with sugar. Sugar does not cause diabetes. Sugar does not cause obesity. There's nothing wrong with Glice of fate, glyphosate, glyphosate, glyphosate. It's it's just been demonized and there's nothing wrong with it. And the hormones of course, bioidentical. Hormones, of course, are bad. So I'm actually trying to get with somebody, somebody from here to come on and give us a talk. I think it would be interesting, so to listen to them.

Speaker 5  2:24:47
Sorry, three is the number two GM when the country actually after porn used to be sugar beet that was number one GMO that's what my center started with. But then corn took over and soy is number two. So whoever says so as high as no black was it and as as the innocence I don't know where they're coming from.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:11
Okay, somebody company, we can throw to

Bill Clearfield  2:25:14
protocols or suggestions or trainings for individualized hormone supplement replacement. Well, I have one actually Dr. Gersh has one and I'm sure Carol has also there's quite a few out there. So I do have one so if you want to get in touch with me, we can get we can get you some information on that. She asked. Someone asked do you recommend DHEA and pregnenolone for complete hysterectomy patients? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Again, everything balanced Yep. Another Dr. Quinn says I hope everyone her additional therapeutic pearls including Detox Diet, exercise and stress management. Too much dimension in 111 hour. Is there a danger of giving progesterone and menopause? No. No, we do it all the time. We'll get Dr. For Dr. Question. Another actor versus versus talk we'll get your her contact information if you're interested in it. And lots of kudos for Dr. Gersh. And a question about how much is that dude being paid? I don't know what that means.

Speaker 6  2:26:40
Yeah, there was a guy named Mark Messina who headed up this he got paid big bucks to promote soy.

Bill Clearfield  2:26:48
Okay, I don't know. Got any more questions that Canaria.

Speaker 3  2:26:51
One thing I just want to give everybody another heads up about what's coming in the pipeline by your regulators. So these are what they're saying that's going to be a replacement or even an upgrade of our peptides. And this is still being started by Dr. Can't hold hold our fear in the US. And an example for that would be the buyer regulator call for ovaries if you actually have somebody who has bearing dysfunction, or of course, who doesn't give this by regulator it will modulate. It's not going to be something for too hyper or hypo function it but it will regulate a specific organ so it's also coming in the form of of course pancreas, thyroids, it's actually the Oregon and this is actually being originated in Russia. And now it's being brought here in the US. So that's something they're already starting, I think integrated peptides as some of these products. Just don't know what the whole lineup would be, but it's definitely interesting and worth looking at in the future.

Speaker 6  2:27:54
Are they nucleotides does he use the word nickel nucleotide are

Speaker 3  2:27:57
saying it's smaller than amino acid I mean, the amino acid formation of peptides so still amino acid base. There's more questions about your bill and there's some stuff

Bill Clearfield  2:28:11
I think I got all the ones that I have here. Do you have more?

Speaker 3  2:28:16
Yeah, I can menopausal women have estradiol without know without progesterone. We don't want that.

Bill Clearfield  2:28:23
No, the answer's no.

Speaker 3  2:28:25
Yeah. And Dr. Miller, I met progesterone only without eat too. Yeah, during a postmenopausal Yeah, that can be done. I've done that. Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:28:35
we do that all the time.

Speaker 3  2:28:39
Yep. And, yeah, that's it on my end.

Unknown Speaker  2:28:42
Okay, great. Here's a

Speaker 3  2:28:44
tip. Dr. Phil another tip for everybody here. There are studies out there and Bill Maher actually presented this, that GLP ones will work better when you're actually on bioidentical hormones. So that's also like, he guess, synergistic approach that everybody should be doing when they're using GLP ones on their patients. It's going to be way more effective as measured by Dr. Gersh.

Bill Clearfield  2:29:11
Okay, do we need a we had a couple of talks on GLP ones do we need an update coming coming up soon? Yeah,

Speaker 6  2:29:19
I'd like to know if that calla CARB is is working well on your protocol. Dr. Clearfield

Bill Clearfield  2:29:24
okay. Yeah. Yeah, we're still doing still going strong with that. Okay.

Speaker 6  2:29:30
We it seems more physiologic than the injections. Yeah. Which we

Bill Clearfield  2:29:37
literally will sometimes use it for maintenance. So we use it for both. We use it with a cup combination of a couple of other things. And you know, we do real well and I know I mentioned it but this magazine came out best I don't you can see it the best the Sierra which is you know the Reno area. The number one weight loss clinic in the Reno area is Clearfield Medical Group. By the way. 35 right there. That in 15 cents will get me nothing to curb ah and hockey sticks yellow curb, right. So, no, you know, I think we went I went over once. I mean besides the the GLP ones of the Kallo curb and we use a couple of other you know, am PK. Stimulants. We have a we have a pretty nice online program that we use. We use that body site program that we presented here. For patients then they have programs they have they have meal plans specifically for GLP ones we use those, we can write your own on that and also and we also we've come up with a protocol for post care so that you don't gain it back. You know, that's always a big, that's always a big issue. So if we want we want, you know, coming up, we're booked up in pretty much through the middle of November now that if you want some that'll maybe we can do that maybe two weeks before Thanksgiving. Okay, that'll be that'll be a good time for that. Yep. So, John, what's happening at the medical school

Speaker 7  2:31:27
everything this way is beautiful. And I'm once again amazed by this group. What a team.

Bill Clearfield  2:31:33
Yeah, we're doing well. So again, October 30 to November 3 in Salt Lake City age management Medical Group. I'll be speaking on longevity on Sunday. And, you know, it's, that's a it's a smaller group than a forum. It's a lot more intimate. I think you get we get a lot more out of it. There's not nearly as it's not nearly as frenetic and crazy and there's, you know, much a lot of a lot of good camaraderie there. If you're, if you're interested. It's in age mid.org AG E M M ed.org. It's, you know, it's moderately priced, and we usually have a good time with with that group. John, were you involved with omega at all? Did you did you have any any contact with them?

Unknown Speaker  2:32:29
Nothing whatsoever.

Bill Clearfield  2:32:31
Okay, yeah. So, you know, that was the aways scientific. You know, thing, we'd have 5000 doctors, they told us not that they kicked us out and then told us we could come and then don't come so they sent me personally sent me I got a letter from a lawyer, a cease and desist letter and said that I was not to be thought to go there because I don't know how to behave quote unquote.

Speaker 3  2:32:57
Oh, you mentioned a for him. October 7, Ruby lecturing over the faculty of a program for women's hormones. Anybody interested? Yeah,

Bill Clearfield  2:33:06
that's an online program. It's a little pricey, isn't

Speaker 3  2:33:11
it? That is that's not my call, though. Oh, and one thing we're gonna I'm gonna be going to Germany or medicine week. Anybody who's going to Germany that's going to be I think it's November, October or early November.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:30
Unless it was been nice to be you know, single and young and be able to travel he just got back. He spent a whole month in the Philippines in the summer.

Speaker 3  2:33:41
It's in that it's in Baton baton. So I don't know if I can understand German but I'll take a risk dice for that. They said it's good stuff.

Speaker 6  2:33:51
They have they have translators. Oh, good. All right.

Bill Clearfield  2:33:57
Yeah. Okay. So Amber Amber's are amber is our patient and so she's been on. What did you think of what you heard tonight? You're muted. You're muted.

Speaker 8  2:34:11
Oh, well. A lot of it because I have the PCOS and the other estrogen issues I I found some of it contradictory because I had my first child at 39. And I had my second one at 40. And I did both of those naturally without assistance with PCOS and I'm overweight and I'm not in her criteria for having children, especially late stage children. So it was

Bill Clearfield  2:34:36
you have to remember that information about these things. It's you know, it's it's a percentage. It's not any one individual.

Speaker 8  2:34:45
Yeah, right. Like I made exception to all of her rules, like

Bill Clearfield  2:34:50
everything. And that's okay. You know, and that's okay.

Speaker 8  2:34:54
Yeah, you know, I didn't have the jazz I didn't have gestational diabetes. I didn't have the I 39 and a half weeks with the first one my blood pressure went up that's like at the end and then the second one because I took Oh, I took two supplements. I'm brain farting on what they are. But I took I think it was L tyrosine. Anyways, for the second one, I didn't have any blood pressure issues. But with him he was just he The first one was eight pounds. 13 ounces. We didn't have any growth restriction. The second one was 10 pounds with excess fluid, excess amniotic fluid and the largest placenta any of the staff had ever seen. So there was no growth restriction with him either. So overall, I mean, I did have a question with the GLP one she was saying that you shouldn't give the GLP one like the will go V and all that without supplementing estrogen. But does that apply to people who are estrogen dominant which obviously she said you're not supposed to say estrogen dominant but I mean, when I'm estrogen dominant, that's what I've been diagnosed as. So which estrogen I am dominant in I don't know. So I'm just going to categorize it as the family of estrogen. But I mean, does that apply? Should I be supplementing with estrogen? If I ever get a DLP where

Bill Clearfield  2:36:08
estrogen dominant you have? You have more estrogen than you need? So I would think Yeah,

Speaker 8  2:36:13
yeah, that's, that was my question. I typed it in. Obviously, she got bombarded by a lot of information with a lot of questions. So my question got by,

Bill Clearfield  2:36:20
we can listen to her all day. So yeah.

Speaker 8  2:36:24
So yeah, I mean, I just that was my only question was that, you know, I just was like, well, that doesn't really apply to me. Here. I am with another exception to her rule so

Bill Clearfield  2:36:33
well, there's always you know, there's always that so yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:36:38
that's why I'm on here because I'm a mystery. So

Speaker 3  2:36:41
you probably meant by that is when you optimize your Astra dials GLP one receptors are more potent and more active. That's why you use your GLP ones along with balanced hormones, you will definitely get the maximum effect of your GLP once. I mean, I don't think it was meant to be saying that it's going to be bad for you to start GLP once with estrogen dominance for the reason that a lot of our GLP one patients are really overweight and they're very estrogen dominant, meaning mostly a strong family. But it actually helps regulate all of these hormones and abnormalities once you get on GLP one, so I don't think that's what she meant by that.

Speaker 8  2:37:21
Okay. Yeah, I was just curious about that. Because I was like, Well, I want to go on them, but I'm still breastfeeding. So I've been breastfeeding for over four years. Now. You know, and so I was like, Well, I can't take it until I'm done breastfeeding anyway. So, but I do have the midsection weight, but I've always had that because of the PCOS. So it's like, but now I'm up 30 pounds compared to my note what my body considers my normal, and I just, it's stuck. It's not going anywhere. Or what I do it's just stuck there. But I'm also 43. Now so.

Bill Clearfield  2:37:52
Yeah, well, we'll think of something. Yeah.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:57
Take care of that. We'll think.

Unknown Speaker  2:38:00
But yeah, so we have this

Bill Clearfield  2:38:03
community here. Somebody's got to have an idea out there. Yeah. All right. Anybody else have any comments or questions? And we've been on for over two and a half hours. I think that's a good run. All right. So if you want to find out

Speaker 5  2:38:18
one other thing that we never talked about testosterone and osteoporosis, which one there's been better estrogens. Testosterone.

Speaker 6  2:38:33
That's a good question. There's there's not very much literature on testosterone or DHEA. You would think are the anabolic effects would be would be beneficial. The big research is on progesterone and growing new bone estrogen slowing down the rate of bone loss. Theoretically, you would think it would help and I haven't seen a lot of data on it.

Bill Clearfield  2:38:59
I have some, some I have some studies. I'll pull them out and I'll get them to you. So okay, what does one work better than the other? I really, you know, that I don't know. You know, usually it's, you know, most of the time we're especially postmenopausal we're using both. So it would be an accumulative type thing.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:23
Follow was what

Speaker 8  2:39:28
I was going to ask if anybody follows Dr. Barbara O'Neill. Is anybody familiar with her? Yeah, Australian lady. Yeah. Her big thing about osteoporosis is like we're not made of calcium is that we're made of the 12 minerals. And so I've actually started supplementing my water with the Celtic sea salt or the Baja gold salt. So because I know that breastfeeding long term, my bones are probably at risk, you know, with those nutrients being depleted. So that's what I've, I've done just based on, you know, her information

Speaker 3  2:39:59
about with the new recommendations for osteoporosis, again, I think I mentioned this a while ago that when you're in osteoporosis, the new recommendation of seeing estrogen couldn't even do a thing. You need by phosphonates for that dope. So these are conventional recommendations from the recent ANP conference. That's why as we now live in our integrator, world or bubble, we definitely say that this needs of that and there's still some hope for estrogen on our end, of course in different methods and how we want to give it

Speaker 6  2:40:31
no progesterone to actually Alan gave me wrote a good book many years ago, preventing and reversing osteoporosis. You need the minerals. You need a protein assimilation. It's not just calcium sitting there. Right

Bill Clearfield  2:40:46
and if you go on our website, Amber aos er d.org There's a couple of lectures by John new stat on aos or d.org/webinars. Look up John noose that we've had him on a couple of times. And he's pretty he's got a he's got a whole protocol. That he's going to go on over with us. Okay.

Speaker 8  2:41:08
Well, ne ws T ADT.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:12
Any U S, ta d t. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:41:16
We also have designs for health. It's electrical pure hydration. It's pretty decent. It's not as strong as LM in tea. It's 500 milligrams sodium, 500 milligrams potassium 100 milligrams magnesium. Tastes good. And I think it's really decent, just to say, to add the electrolytes back into the body.

Bill Clearfield  2:41:41
So all right. Okay. Anybody else have anything else? Be well, and we'll see you again next week. Same time, same station, bring one friends. We'll double our census. And take it from there. Thank you all for being here. Everybody for being on and stay well. And anybody has anything that would present once they want to present please let me know. Again, CME credits there. It's still in the chat. And it'll be on the email, next week's email how to get it also. Okay. Thank you for being with us, Amber. So welcome anytime. Okay, good night, everybody.

Unknown Speaker  2:42:26
Good night.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai