Bill Clearfield  00:23
Don Gowri, can't hear you.

Speaker 1  00:30
Hi, Dr Bill, how are you good? How are you doing?

Bill Clearfield  00:35
Okay, I got my rapamycin. I'm all good, great. Can't you tell them I looked younger already? By Gosh,

Speaker 1  00:43
10 years younger at least, at least Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  00:51
So how are things at college? Pharmacy

Unknown Speaker  00:55
going pretty good. This should be an interesting zoom conference.

Bill Clearfield  01:04
Well, I'm hoping so. For some reason I thought it was an IV, but I guess it's not. Huh? You guys carry this stuff. No,

Speaker 1  01:15
we, we don't. And, you know, we thought it was going to be an IV too, but I read in the description, it looks like a supplement.

Bill Clearfield  01:24
Yeah, so Stefan, you use this stuff? No, no. Anybody I know, Dr anario uses it. They use it in the cancer clinic.

Unknown Speaker  01:37
Yeah, I use it. Doctor. Do?

Bill Clearfield  01:43
Okay, you find it effective at all, or, well, it's pretty

Speaker 2  01:48
I combine it with, you know, especially if you think chemo, but I've been using it for our mold patients, and they, majority, they told me that they the brain fog actually really helped. I so I'll say, Oh, I was there.

Speaker 3  02:05
Hello everybody. Hi there. Hey y'all, hello, welcome, welcome, happy Tuesday, I got that right. Yep, you did. Thank you

Bill Clearfield  02:15
for being with us.

Unknown Speaker  02:16
Oh, happy to, happy to Thanks for having me. How you doing? Eric?

Speaker 2  02:19
Hey, doing great all. I was just telling them that our mold patients with brain fog really can tell the difference after the polyva. Nice.

Speaker 3  02:31
Did you do anything else with it? Pre post, a little bit. A lot. How'd you

Speaker 2  02:34
so, no, we're just using Pauline VA. They get vitamin C, but on some other day, not on the same day. Okay,

Speaker 3  02:45
no problem. Awesome. Yeah. So thank you. Thank you. How's Wendy doing?

Bill Clearfield  02:50
Some of us are poly MVU, so we're going to, you're going to teach us all about it, right?

Speaker 3  02:56
Well, hopefully, you know, it's, it's been exciting. You know, doing this for now. She's 25 years but, yeah, it's exciting because of what Eric had just mentioned, because it was such a history in the cancer arena, for what my dad started. And what do you want? I mean, again, lost my mom and my sister to cancer, so that, of course, it's always been close to our heart, but to really, you'll see it in the presentation where we're talking about how, I mean, poly was kind of ahead of its time, 20 plus years ago. You know it was, it was off the wall, thinking it was outside the box, what like, pretty much, outside in the parking lot, kind of arena. So for, for those of you that are familiar with Dr Garnett, who created it, and I'll talk a little bit about that, it's just, it's awesome, because it just, it's meshing in a way that, you know, COVID recovery, Lyme, autoimmune, it just has this nice little place that it can just amplify it for the various reasons in the complex. So, very, very fortunate. So thanks to do it. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  04:06
thank you for being with us. We appreciate it. We've been doing this for four and a half years now. Okay, usually, we usually have anywhere from 30 to 71

Unknown Speaker  04:16
okay, and

Bill Clearfield  04:19
it's a pretty good group now we if, if we have a for talking about a specific product, and we can't offer the CME credit, but that's okay, doesn't matter.

Speaker 3  04:31
Okay. Well, I mean, I'd send it without anything in regards to the specificity of the product, so I can

Bill Clearfield  04:37
give you that. And then, then if you can do just the ingredients and what it does, and you've been, you know how to, you know what? Yeah, when we're done, when we shut the video off, then, then you can, you know, mention your, you know the name, and whatever. Now, all right, Dr Nario is here, so I feel better now.

Unknown Speaker  04:58
So how are you? Hey, so

Bill Clearfield  05:01
time I get nervous.

Speaker 4  05:05
I get that a lot, not in a good way, though. So I'm gonna give a little brief intro later on now, so they could actually get an idea how good of a man you are. How about that

Unknown Speaker  05:23
coming from you? I really appreciate that. Thank you,

Bill Clearfield  05:29
sir. You never said that about me.

Unknown Speaker  05:33
Let's make your present.

Speaker 4  05:39
So remember you have always questions for me and what I learned in class. That's

Bill Clearfield  05:43
why I keep trying poking you here, trying to trying to get, we're trying to get, get the the education from, from that darker while out of you, without having to go there ourselves,

Unknown Speaker  05:53
right?

Speaker 4  05:54
That's a whole protocol or a whole program, basically. So here's, here's some good tidbits, tidbits before we start. So there was a topic that we spoke about, about Hashimoto thyroiditis. There's a big theory now that they're talking about Epstein Barr staying inside the thyroid and being just just waiting to be reactivated. So one of the bigger reactivations of that would be in relation to high thyroid antibodies, would be lower vitamin D levels. So once you suddenly dip that vitamin D down, reactivation of these EBV viruses would now lead to higher antibodies. So that's a that's an interesting because you work a lot with Hashimotos. So have you encountered that?

Bill Clearfield  06:44
Me, Who you talking to you? Yeah? Me, yeah, yeah. Lady, I had to show her out here to get get here on time. She had a vitamin D of 26 and her TPO was 19, and her TSH was 0.01 and her free t3 3.69 so she was kind of sort of a mixed bag.

Speaker 4  07:06
So have you encountered the EBV interaction and she

Bill Clearfield  07:10
was positive

Speaker 4  07:13
IG, early antigen? Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  07:17
Yeah. And she, let's see what else she had. Well, her her husband died suddenly from she's 40 years old from a heart attack, and she's got two little kids, and so her reverse t3 is 32 those of you don't know that's really high. We use that as a proxy for cortisol, stress hormone. And do

Unknown Speaker  07:43
you do that? You always check your EBVs for your Hashimotos. I don't

Bill Clearfield  07:49
know. I know. I mean, she, she volunteered it. I mean, she brought it with her. So, okay, yeah, yeah, she brought it. So No, usually I don't, not, not, not initially. I mean, there's nothing you can do about it. If it's, you know, stairs there, you gotta deal with, what? What deal with so, you know, unless the the Hashimotos gets reactivated. So what did they recommend to do about it?

Speaker 4  08:16
Make sure your vitamin DS don't go down, because everybody has Epstein Barr basically, I know, well, this is I didn't get the connections between EBV, Hashimotos and vitamin D. I always kind of go directly towards Hashimotos and vitamin D without the EBV component. I did. I guess you had more experience about that than I do

Bill Clearfield  08:44
well. So the Epstein Barr is the main, really, one of the main triggers for, you know, the all sorts of autoimmune diseases, not not just Hashimotos, but that's the one we see the most, right? But Epstein Barr is one of the, one of the, really, you know, the main triggers for autoimmune disease. So, so

Speaker 4  09:05
really, the key there is controlling vitamin D. And how can you control EBV? There's not much you could do for unless you have an acute one when you give your antivirals, right, right? So the more control is more on controlling that vitamin D,

Bill Clearfield  09:20
right? So, yeah, I mean, there's nothing you can do about it again, unless, unless it's, you know, they have some sort of reactivation of it or, or, right, a new acquaintance of it. So,

Unknown Speaker  09:35
so fun, but there's more.

Bill Clearfield  09:37
Give them some poly MVA, maybe, I don't know, Eric, you

Unknown Speaker  09:42
were saying. Something, sorry. Oh,

Speaker 2  09:44
have you used SOT for EBV? I know you've been using SOT right for cancer.

Speaker 4  09:48
Yeah. So our SOT are used more for cancers, but there is an SOT version for viral infections now, like Epstein Barr. I think even you use it. No, I haven't promoted to RGC, have you? I

Speaker 2  10:06
have one patient that did. I'm I'm waiting, so it's going to be next month, so we'll see.

Speaker 4  10:12
So what are your parameters for this? More of symptoms, or you're using titers to see how it's going to tighter, early antigen, or the whole thing, yes, early antigen. Oh, okay, but this is a patient who's symptomatic. I'm assuming she's fatigu, okay,

Bill Clearfield  10:32
that'll be interesting. What, what, what? Alright, so I'm going to show you my, my, my, what. I don't know what's so T

Speaker 4  10:40
superior. Oligo nucleotide therapy. Is that right? Eric, is that? Did I pronounce that right? It's

Speaker 2  10:48
right. It's been done by this Greek company that we use for cancer.

Speaker 4  10:55
Yeah. Okay, so they're doing this now, it's for Lyme. Lyme disease also. Mm, hmm. So you still ready for another tidbit? Or we're ready to start, yeah?

Bill Clearfield  11:09
Give us one more tidbit. Yeah, make sure cows all warmed up

Speaker 4  11:13
so they're saying this over and over again. You will save lives from this. I haven't seen a case, but if you diagnose a patient with congestive heart failure that is mixed, so there's heart failure compensated in heart failure non compensated, so you will see a stiff plus dilated mixture of a heart on an echo, and you add symptoms of carpal tunnel and at the same time, spinal stenosis, that is already a big clue for you that there is Amyloidosis in the patient. So they're saying that they are. So this is a university hospital. They have a lot of new treatments for Amyloidosis now. So those three combinations, if you find them, you will really save lives. According to them, I haven't seen one, but they just drill that in our heads. So

Bill Clearfield  12:03
say it again. So

Speaker 4  12:05
if you do an echo, if you see a mixed finding, of of course, compensated and non compensated, meaning a stiff part and also a dilated part of the heart. So that's mix. And then you add the other symptom of carpal tunnel and spinal stenosis, you that was already almost a sure hit that you're going to get an Amyloidosis diagnosis. So that's really strong cardiology. It's

Bill Clearfield  12:35
really stretching there. Aren't you? Really stretching there?

Speaker 4  12:41
Hey, that's those are the fresh coming off the grill. Information? How many?

Bill Clearfield  12:46
How many? How many have they come across at that university hospital with that combination?

Speaker 4  12:52
Well, from the sound of it, it's happening a lot, just because they have a bigger population that they're seeing over there. And I don't even know how to treat amyloidosis.

Speaker 3  13:05
That was my next question is, what do they recommend to do for the treatment?

Unknown Speaker  13:08
Can poly MVA help? And

Speaker 3  13:13
it can't hurt, right? Can't hurt, but I'm not sure. So,

Bill Clearfield  13:17
okay, okay. Well, okay, little bit after five now, so I guess we can get started. Doctor Nari, why don't you do the honors here of introducing our guest?

Speaker 4  13:28
Alright, so mister al Sanchez has been a good friend of mine. We've been in communicate for the longest time. I've met him initially in the cancer center. So one of the protocols that we have in the in the cancer center is actually using poly MVA for our cancer patients. So this is one of the earlier protocols right now, we're using more of the the oral version of this, rather than the IV before, but he will probably tell you how this will be attained later on, but overall, I can definitely vouch for his product, and I have seen how our patients respond over there in relation to, of course, cancer therapy. But you will find out that poly NV is not only used for for cancer therapy, but also for chronic fatigue, anything that's related to the mitochondria in relation to how you can actually protect and boost your your functions for the mitochondria, but overall, this is something that I'm really happy with as a product. But you'll hear more from Al, who's I guess, his father started this, and now he continued the legacy of continuing this to be brought to us integrative practitioners. So Al, thank you again for being here with us, and it's all yours. I appreciate

Speaker 3  14:44
a moment. Thank you for that. And yeah, exciting to continue to learn and expand on that. And as you mentioned, you know, going from cancer back to 2530 years ago to now, realizing that, you know that downstream event of cancer is simply revolves around the mitochondrial So, and it's interesting to tie it in, especially here in the 21st century. So I'm going to hopefully do that well enough for you to really kind of, you know, I'll set the seed for you, and then I'll hopefully draw you in so that you can really see where I'm going with it, not because that's where I want to go with it, but that's where Pauli has taken it from that perspective. So, you know, we call it mitochondrial medicine, but that's why I put down there in the title AK energy medicine, because at the end of the day, it's really all about the mitochondria without that energy. You know, I was just visiting with Dr Garnett last week in New York, and he's 94 now, and he brought it up again, one of the first things he said to me back in the late 90s is, you know, what's the difference between live DNA and dead DNA? And it's not the information. It's not simply one has energy, one does not. And so that's what kind of put him on this course to learn about that. And when you tie it in with everything, even with Einstein, it gives us a reference point to really look at it. And I think approach medicine from that different perspective, because we're not just looking at these symptoms and diagnosing what the blood would look like. We're actually looking at the hierarchy of it. How did it get there? And it's going to take some level of that to get it out of it. It's not just going to be a simple, singular cure, or some singular medicine or something that's going to make that difference. It really is about matching that frequency, and how does that work? And we're just really scratching the surface of it. So it's pretty amazing what Dr Garnett, as I mentioned earlier, before we started. And here he is, and this is a good picture of him, because, like I said, he's 94 years old. But if you really want to deep dive kind of where he was going, I'm going to kind of do a little summary of it here in the first part of the talk, to give you an idea, because it's really important from a foundational perspective. But he called his book first pulse for a reason, and so he was delving into this expression of DNA, and he called it, in his terms, his words, the second genetic code. In other words, the first genetic code is simply the information, but the expression of that code is directly related to the energetics of the cell. So he was measuring that and talking about this, literally, 30 and 40 years ago, and no one was really listening, because he was, he was way ahead of the curve from that perspective. So, so we'll cover things on mitochondria, from how it's important not just for the energy it produces, because we generally associate this with some level of activity, right? Our our energy level has to do with our activity, and whether we just sit there and don't do anything, they have to produce that energy. So being active is very important, but it's actually a minor level of the amount of energy required for normal cell function, expression, a normal cell death, for that matter. So it's why the rage, I think, has been about mitochondria over the past 20 years, because now we're having this understanding it's not just getting them some form of energy. It's actually, there's a complicated process to it, you know, and we talk about whether it's oxidative therapies, whether it's antioxidant therapies, and it's far more about the interaction between those. And that's what I've been able to be privileged at and looking at over the course of time, is, is these physicians, these researchers, in these protocols, that actually put these things together in manner that says, you know, it's not a singular theory. There's no silver bullet by any means. But what there are are interactions between, as you mentioned Melvin about how simple vitamin D is, right to this day, now we're still talking about it, and it's probably the cheapest, if not one of the cheapest nutrients out there that we can take, and yet, it's such a game changer for so many reasons. You know, in my book, it acts more like a hormone than it does a vitamin, right? It doesn't do just a singular action. It's it's involved in multiple processes and multiple cells for all kinds of different situations. So I want to really, really break it down, and that's what I like to do, because it makes it simple for my mind to then address what that issue might be. So when cells become dysfunctional, what's really going on? Do they just happen to wake up one day and all sudden go, Hey, I'm going offline today. Not likely, right? Unless you walk through a nuclear reactor and got that kind of damage the cells were going to do, what the cells were going to do. But, you know, protein synthesis is so important, and yet it becomes also part of the problem later on in life, right? Proteostasis, so how ourselves respond to what we now call epigenetics, right, these environmental triggers that we keep doing from our lifestyle over and over again that then allow for that expression, right? And our body's ability to adapt to things. So the availability of nutrients, something as simple as vitamins D, vitamin C, whatever it might be, if it gets depleted over time, over time, it's not just a one time event. It's over the course of these decades, typically where all of a sudden, now, as you mentioned, you know, a lot of those bugs, viruses, bacteria, are already there, but now they can be activated. Why? Because the environment is available to it. So lot of times they call that the what's Dr Cochran always call it the terrain, right? The terrain is so important, far more important because it plays a role in cell cycle progression. It's plays a role in organelle homeostasis, and it directly relates to how well our energetics are doing, right? Because as they start to drop off, then things start to go awry. If you know, there's a certain amount of level of energy that each cell needs just to survive, let alone to regulate its cell growth, let alone to perform its function, whatever it might be, and yet it's we have built in mechanisms that repair and maintain that homeostasis. So you really start really adding this up, and it's kind of mind blowing. So if you've ever gone down that path of metabolic Yeah, it's I dove down that over a decade ago, and I haven't come up rare yet since so but I think aging is the best way to kind of express it to everyone, especially to the patients, and understanding what's going on, right? Because if, if our patients don't buy into whatever it is that we're talking about at some level, or have some level of understanding about it, then they're going to be like, okay, yeah, just give me a prescription, and I'll go along my merry way, and I'll let you know whether it worked and it's not that way, right? It's, it's, how do we, you know, many times our patients aren't, they're not first liners. They're, you know, non responders. They're, they've been through X, Y and Z, gone through traditional been through five years of of antibiotics or other types of treatments. And so they're complicated cases, and then we have to unwind that, and yet we can directly look at not just their blood work, but their lifestyle, and say, Okay, this is what age. This is the fundamental of aging. So I think if when we look at that from that perspective, it makes a whole lot more sense for me. So that's why I've tailored it to this, because when I see those protocols that actually address it, whether it's a high level or 75% of the protocol or 25% of the protocol, it's always surrounding that mitochondrial function, right? And it's not just about the ratio of how much energy can be reproduced. It's also about recycling, right? So, you know, AMPK is really important, because that's simply not. There's one way of developing the energy, but then you have to recycle it, right? So once you know

Speaker 3  22:26
amp goes to ATP and then gets another phosphate group. Well, it takes energy to do that. So both ways, it's utilizing it, it's creating and it's utilizing it over and over and over again. And these directly relate to how those cells are going to respond, whether they're an immunological cell, whether they're simply your liver cell or as important as your thyroid, right? So when we really look at how the interplay between that all these terms, even like certain one, rapamycin, mTOR pathways, right? They're kind of out there in the ether sometimes, and most people think about them and they're like, kind of the magical stuff of what mTOR does, and you're does. And you're like, Yeah, but if you take it back, where does it go? Right back to the metabolic Right, right, back to that energy requirements for what that has to do. So and then as we age, what happens? It naturally tapers off. That's just welcome to Life, right? Our genome is now recycled over 50 or 60 or 70 years. Guess what? We know we lose something each and every time it happens. The question is, how fast is that going to happen? If someone is a smoker, stressful lifestyle, poor poor eating habits, poor sleeping habits, sleep apnea, whatever it might be a smoker, on top of it, guess what? Those things are going to happen and accelerate a lot more quickly than it is, but it's happening the same rate. It just happens faster. So if we can alter that, we know that we can either stop it at least, or hopefully to repair it and then try to restore it to some previous level. But there's a lot of things that are going on. It's not just a singular event. Those singular events then trigger a cascade of events. So it, just like I mentioned earlier, it didn't happen overnight, but then it ultimately ends up with a diagnosis of X, Y or Z, and in that diagnosis, as I'm sure many of you familiar with that's great to put that label on what that might be, but if you travel upstream and start looking what it is also in the commonality of factors, really start to to come to the surface so and primarily it's then having us to then we have to dissect that right now. We got to go, we're like, we're more like investigators on NCIS or something. We're having to figure this out and figure this out. And this patient, did, this patient that like, wow. You know, just as Melvin described earlier about that, the you know, conjecture congestive heart failure with carpal tunnel, symbiote, lead, amyloid, says, What? Right? But there are these links to it, and so we're just still scratching the surface of it, but it's exciting that I think we live in a world now where it's much easier to do it, and so we can benefit the patients. But for this discussion, it is about the mitochondria. Don't care what's what tissue, what cell it is, it's playing a role in the interconnectedness of those tissues, then playing a role for the ultimate output of someone being healthy or someone not being healthy. So, you know, working with products that can then target and look at that specifically, that's really made the difference from what I've seen to any other previous quote, unquote treatments for, for, for this or for that. You know, this is the slide here on it's a simplified slide, if any of you ever you know my favorite, one of my favorite billboards is that Roach metabolic panel. It's like, you know, 10 feet by five feet, and it shows you all the metabolic pathways. The point of this is simply that there's a lot of different players that are on the field, right? So we might be using vitamin C in some version of cancer therapy at high notes. However, it's used in the metabolic you know, the branched amino acids, the vitamin the B vitamins, they're all playing role on both sides of the equation. So not only do we have to set up metabolic for the success in the beginning, it just doesn't happen my magic, right? Most of us just stick gas on our gas tank and turn our key in our car, and if it starts, we're happy. But do we understand what's really going on under the hood of our car? Not really, right? I could explain it to you if you want. But the point is, is that whether it was a Model A or whether it's a 2025, Lamborghini that's $2 million it works off the basic process, it still has to fundamentally, four cycle internal combustion motor that burns gasoline like this. Well, our cells do this, but what happens if these nutrients don't become available? Then our cells, fortunately have ability to come up with a different pathway, right? And they can short circuit that and kind of cut it off. But what happens if the cell goes from instead of the 36 units of ATP only produces 32 Well, if that cycle continues, then ultimately it's going to end up, what in a deficit, or if that cell can't even make it, then it'll simply just say, Guess what? There's not enough players on the field here. So what am I going to do? Well, I'll go into anaerobic respiration. Not only is it a survival mechanism, but it's also a mechanism that our body uses for our muscles, right? We run out of ATP because we're decided to run a marathon. What does our body do? It'll go into anaerobic respiration. What does our immune system do all the time, goes into anaerobic respiration, because that's how much energy is required. Now, in the short term, yes, you can get that boost of energy to support the system by going anaerobic, but in the long term, it's not successful. It's not sustainable. So this is where Dr Annette was really looking at something fundamentally different, at the basics of the biology, of how it would happen, and his hypothesis would simply, well, can I do something about that? Right? And when you look at the steps that are necessary for metabolic activity to happen to produce that 36 units of ATP, you know, there's a fundamental Crux right there in the system, and it's the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl CoA. So there's no coincidences. When you look at the lipoic acid mineral complex that he utilized, alpha folic acid assignment. Why? Because there are co factors for that process. So that was his theory. That was his his wonder, you know, close to 50 years ago. And if it plays a role, what does that look like? Well, ironically, if you look at the apoptotic pathway, it's regulated and controlled by mitochondria as well, right? It just happens to go through a different circuit. What circuit is that the P 53 gene typically, right? So in the oncology space, where a cells run away. Why? What happened? Well, many times, the P 53 gene is implicated because it controls the process of Apoptosis if it gets turned on. So if, for some reason, it's damaged or it's not available, then guess what? The cell is not going to die and it will simply go in. It's like in this defunct state. Should I stay alive? Well, I didn't get all my signal so well, my, my, not my number one goal is to stay alive. So guess what? I everything else is turned off. But guess what? I can burn anaerobically and hang around, and if it doesn't get recognized, then it hangs out, and then a decade later, there's a diagnosis of x, y or z. So, you know, I wish it was really that simple, as I'm making it sound, but when you break it down as to the process of what's going wrong, right? It's generally some, you know, we don't like inflammation, but actually certain, certain levels of inflammation are necessary, but you combine that with a hypoxic situation, in other words, low oxygen. If we could measure it, and actually, Dr hernand, did you measure the activity of that cell? When that moment happens, the cell simply drops off its energy levels. That's the first thing that will drop off. So just like driving your car, and if you start to run out of gas, or you're not able to produce or if your alternator goes offline, guess what, all sudden, your battery will be at 12 volts, and then it'll go to 11, then we'll go to 10, then also the car will and then it won't, won't run at all. So, but ourselves, like I said, have an adaptive strategy. They have an ability to go, let me reroute. And so that's what part of the aerobic cascade is. And if it gets kicked off in a certain way, then you have an quote, unquote, Immortal Cell. If not, then either way, it's become dysfunctional and it can no longer contribute to the liver. It can no longer contribute to the immune system. It can no longer contribute to the kidney. It's now it's out of the game. How do we bring it back into the game? So ironically, as I touched on earlier, when you look at cell membranes and you look, you know, we have this idea and understanding of energy and production, but do we really know how it works? And the answer is, No, we simply know that it does. And it's kind of amazing. When you really dive down into it, you look at cell membranes, you look at organelles, you look at DNA, and guess what? They're letting things in, letting things out based upon what, just because there's a hormone, that's just because there's a vitamin available. And when you look at really look at some membrane structures, right? The phospholipids, right? And they have to pass through through channels, which whether it's cholesterol, whether it's sugar, whether it's a proteins, and those same proteins that are necessary for self survival become the building blocks of the next tissue, or they simply become a problem later on, because now there's too many of them that are hanging around. So pretty interesting, as I mentioned that in the 21st century, when everything runs on electronics, look at the similarities of ourselves, right? Look at the similarities of what mitochondria are doing by turning things on and turning things off based upon what the energy level of the cell. So it gets regulated based upon the fats, which are kind of like the insulators for for any of you that ever do electrical wiring, remember, replace the light switch on in your house or something, or a breaker in your breaker box, right? The electricity in this room is there and available. We know it just by going over and turning on the switch, but ourselves have to keep producing this ongoingly, right? We don't just have one power plant that's supporting our our home or our office. We have quadrillions of power plants, right up to 2000 per cell in the average cell, and up to 5500 in certain heart and neurological situation. So

Speaker 3  32:24
And ironically, as I mentioned, when you look at the electronics age, right? What was, what was the original chips? Right? A crystal semiconductor with gates and channels to do what to turn things on and turn things off. So whether it's your cell phone, whether it's our liquid crystal display that we're looking at right now with all the beautiful pictures, and we're able to transmit this video, you know, over the internet, to around the world. How does that happen? Is it magic? No, it's basic fundamentals of electronics. So understanding that, I think, in the human body is amazing, because it has opened up a whole different way of approaching these things, and you look at those similarities, sorry, I have an engineering background as well, so, you know, I geek out on this stuff from the perspective of, you know, for those of us who remember, you don't have to say your age, remember the old the old tubes and the TVs, right? And then it became a little transistor, and then that little transistor got put on a switch, and then that switch got put on a CPU, and that CPU now controls. Look at the power of our phone, power of our laptop, the power of the remote in our cars, all those things that it can do. It's not magic. It's basic fundamental physics based upon what electrons, transmitting them, storing them, housing them, harnessing them, using them to do whatever they have to do. And yet, when you look at ourselves, what is it doing? Gates, channels, allowing in, allowing out, based upon what some level of code. We call that code, the DNA, based upon other environmental factors, the cell then responds right, just like our phone, or we respond to the environment and trigger a different response. So do our cells work off of ones and zeros the way that computers do No, but they do turn things on and turn things off. So whether we come back to some simple, basic cell, and they don't do it just by individual ingredients, right? So here's a great example of hydrogen peroxide being created. We don't take in hydrogen peroxide, but our cells will create them, right? So the biochemical reaction of taking H 2o and adding an extra oxygen molecule, so technically, a free radical of oxygen. Why do we like ozone? Why do we like hydro vitamin C? Why, in some cases, do they do hydrogen peroxide therapies? Because we're trying to trigger this intracellular mechanism so that it can simply do what deliver oxygen in the respiratory chain. Ultimately, that's what it does. So if we could support that, what did we just do? We just brought oxygen to the chain exactly what it needed. So we could have high level of oxygen in our blood, but if it doesn't get to the furnace inside that mitochondrial space, and it wasn't as efficient it could be. So we utilize different mechanisms to trigger that, and then what's left. So h2 o2 is balanced, easily split. H2 is left, picks up an extra oxygen molecule becomes water again, and the cycle continues. So you know, the biology and the science of it is pretty amazing. Again. Here's my background in engineering, because in understanding, and we care about so much stuff in in our world, right? And everything's runs on electricity. The sun's creating those electrons. In this case, it's healthy, but stay out in the sun all day long, it'll become damaging. What becomes damaging isn't it's the power that's packed into that wavelength. So believe it or not, DNA has a wavelength. It has a frequency. Everything has a frequency. Everything beats at a certain level. And if you could ride that frequency, then you're like a surfer on that wave. You can carry it through. If you don't, and you mismatch it that way, it's going to either crush you or send you out to sea, depending on which way it's pulling. So understanding, I think basic electricity, has helped me, anyways, to understand the basics of what we call metabolic and metabolism. Because if you get that frequency right, guess what? That microwave is not going to run on the wrong frequency. For those of you that may or may not know, you know, our houses run on 120 more. What happens if it goes to 110 things won't work. What happens it goes to 140 volts, things will get damaged. So it has a reference range it has to stay into, so do our cells. This is an interesting little experiment that you guys get to enjoy, but I hope it illustrates a very fundamental idea of where I'm going with this. Not

Unknown Speaker  36:42
sure if the volume is going to come through, but if you've Ever Played with an energy stick, it's pretty cool. I'm

Speaker 3  37:34
and that's it, that's, that's, that's as simple as it can be that it's a profound event, when you think about it from that perspective, right? That not only do we have energy within our own system, but we have energy with others. And I think we call it spiritual energy. Call it life force, call it whatever you want to call it it exists. How do you explain that, that we complete that circuit ultimately. And that's what I like about the electrical side of things, because when you complete that circuit, when energy is in the system, then we have a way to go. There's life. That's the definition of life at a certain level of simply that ability to generate that and we break it down, or, for DR, broke it down to something as simple as my cologne, right? This has to happen. This sets the table for the initial NAD to do what trigger the process, and both sides of the equation need it. So whether we're going to go aerobic or we're going to go anaerobic, it has to start with the same in the same house, in the same wheelhouse, but the big difference will be whether we're going to use oxygen right. The easiest way to not get metabolic activity is what shut off your oxygen, right? You want to stop a fire from burning, shut off its oxygen. You want someone to stop living. Shut off their oxygen. They can live without water for a long time. They can live without food for a long time, but you're not going to last longer in a few minutes without oxygen. So clearly, because it provides the oxidative step and oxidative phosphorylation for the generation of the Krebs cycle activation. So we can now burn the fuel, recycle it around, and go from two units of energy to 36 that's profound. I mean, it seems kind of simple, but when you think of multiplying two units of energy into 3618 times the amount, it's pretty fascinating from a biological perspective. So in maintaining that, this is where Dr gretne Again, focused on this step, the conversion of pyruvate to acetyl COVID. Because two things happen. Anaerobic respiration can no longer proceed, because it needs pyruvate. And you've at least now overcome the first hurdle for what aerobic respiration and Krebs Cycle activation. Now still more things that need to be taken care of, but this is, this is the beginning of this is like starting your car. The most important thing you can do is at least, if you have enough juice in your battery to get your car started, at least you can get down the road. But if you don't have enough to do that, then we're technically dead in the water. So again, no coincidence that the complex has the alpha lipoic acid and the thymine component. Why? Because they're cofactors for attenuating acetyl COVID into the citric acid cycle, which simply is creating energy via electronic state. So you take all that, there's 40 years of Dr garnets research understands how important oxygen is, and says, Okay, if I could bring an alternative energy source, like a jumper battery. Could I maintain normal cells, and could I drive those hypoxic cells and either support them or get them to shut off? And the answer was yes. So what was born from that is what we call lipoic acid diamond complex, some sometimes referred to as lamc, where Dr in it takes Alpha Lipoic Acid, water, fat soluble, antioxidant. Combines it with Simon, technically an oxid In other words, it wants to give up the electron via the mineral palladium. So he built the bridge between you. Can't bond Alpha Lipoic Acid of Simon, in essence, he created a redox molecule. In other words, a transistor. Because what do transistors do? They can they can turn things on or turn things off, either allowing energy to proceed this way. So one can allow it to go this way, one can allow it to go this way, and an event happens if they go this way, a different event happens if they both block. A different event happens you combine different transistors. A billion transitions into a CPU. You got a pretty smoking fast phone that can do lots of things. So that's how our cells build that technology, biochemically to create it, what doctor granted did was created a molecule that doesn't have to be put together, right? The body doesn't have to go get alpha public acid, the body doesn't have to go get time, and they're already there in a redox capacity to simply absorb them. So I got two slides of the same slide there. I'll fly through that so and again. But this differs from individual components. There is no free lipoic acid. There is no free thymine. They're irreversibly bound. If you wanted to break that complex apart, it would take about 185 degrees Fahrenheit minimum. But yet they maintain their water and fat solubility. So in other words, they'll cross into all cells across the blood brain barrier. So now that you can go and support those tissues, whichever tissues those are, by supporting that metabolic activity. From that perspective, that's how it's utilizing this is what our body does normal. So what he did was he found a molecular shunt that can accept and donate those electrons through a complex that can transfer energy that's that's in the heart, in a nutshell, of what we call lipoic acid mineral complex, and to show you how more powerful it is. I mean, love vitamin C, but vitamin C's power is isn't in what vitamin C does as a single molecule, its power is in whether you want to give it 25 grams, you want to go 35 grams, use 50 grams, use 75 grams, right? And then we take it out of its oxidative state, from a single molecule, and drive it to an oxidative state in a high dose molecule. You know, melatonin is technically twice as powerful, but you can't give those high doses for that long without lots of different side effects. Lipoic acid being water and fat soluble, much more effective in its ability to simply absorb that energy component. But you take the complex, you take the lipoic acid and combine it in the complex, and it becomes five times more powerful than it by itself. So that's the power of poly or, excuse me, of lipoic acid mineral complex, when you're simply able to do that, so you're able to then deliver it to the metabolic but it provides two two fold, right? It not only protects the cell, so in other words, it's going to scavenge electrons. In other words, an antioxidant, which is great, but it's not just about scavenging the antioxidants, about the oxidative balance, one not becoming too much out of places the other one. And when you do that, it becomes simply more efficient. So that's how the complex allows the biochemistry to be enhanced, not because it's some magical understanding of somehow coming in with some bolt of lightning or something. No, it works on what it works on the complexes. So for those of you that remember back to your your biochemistry, right? It's, it's, you can't just release energy like all of a sudden, like you would have a firecracker or dropping some a match on some some lighter fluid. That's just a fast release of energy. It has to be released because the byproduct release of energy is what heat. So can't have too much heat. Can't be too cold, but you need just to write them out. And when you do that, it simply is an enzymatic reaction. So complex one has now loaded up on enough electrons. What does it do? It passes it off to complex two. When complex two is ready, then it passes it off to complex three. And what the lamc complex does is it simply up regulates the efficiency. By adding more energy into the system, it's able to simply, now make it more efficient. So at the end of the day, what's it? What's it driving ATP production, and when you look at it, I mean, heck, we love, we love our improvement in our our gas mileage in our cars to go up 5% 10% 20% imagine its efficiency going up 150 and 57% or 400% in the Krebs cycle enzymes, right? This is the fundamentals of how our cells produce this energy, right? And it can't produce it like all of a sudden. It has to be regulated, controlled, stored, released in an overall complex process. What the lamc molecule is able to do is simply improve that. So with that, and it says, Okay, now we have this cool tool in our toolbox. What do we do with it? Right? Do we just throw it out there and see if it sticks on the wall? Or do we understand what it is that we're addressing so that we can say, Okay, is it, how much do we want to use, right? Similar to like I discussed with vitamin C, is it? You're going to be using 25 grams, 35 grams, 50 grams. There's different responses under different situations. But where this is driving is simply

Speaker 3  45:51
helping to stabilize the metabolic because if you stabilize the metabolics now, the cell can kind of come out of panic mode, right? Because when that battery level starts to drop, I'm sure most of you are familiar with your cell phone, right? You start off the day with 100 off the day with 100% and then all sudden, you're using it a lot, and by 11 o'clock, you're at 65% and then by 230 you're down to 35% and then you got that late meeting and got to go pick up the kids, and also, now it's at 10% but you can't use all the functions that you were using before, right? It turns off. The camera turns off this because it needs it. What do you do? You gotta go plug it back in. How do our cells do that? Through mitochondrial respiration and restoring that. We get fatigue, right? We want to go run five mile, 5k Guess what? We'll be fatigued. So you get COVID or the flu, what's going to happen? You're going to get fatigued. You get diagnosed as a stage four cancer patient. Guess what? You're going to be fatigued. The cause a little different each one of those situations, but we have to then target it as a very specific return to normalize that right? And there's one thing that's really nice about what Paul is doing, is it doesn't require that oxygen, right? So this is something that doesn't require that oxygen. So we think of oxidative therapies like ozone or high dose vitamin C we don't need. That's not how Paul is doing it. It's driving that mechanism through the mitochondrial cascade that does what increases intracellular oxidation by the shuttling of electrons and the creation of that hydrogen peroxide component. So with that, it really makes an ideal use to then integrate it into again, not just haphazardly, if we understand the metabolic pathways and go, Okay, so to get those complexes, cell membranes need to be good ready, as I just talked about earlier. So there's no point in using this if they're dehydrated. There's no point in doing this if their lipids are off. There's no point in doing this when their potassium and their magnesium is off, right? Could use a little bit along with it to help drive it. Of course you could. But from a quote, unquote therapeutic perspective, no right. Set the table. Work it backwards. Work the metabolic from complex five, technically, where, where it has to then go and donate it. Complex four, complex three, complex two, and a myriad of nutritional support mechanisms that do that that that's how you build the recipe for a better success. It isn't a magic bullet, but this is a very powerful one. So give you an idea of how powerful again, in one mL, you have eight megs of alpha gas at nine makes assignments. So for those of you that are familiar with Alpha Lipoic Acid, you'll really appreciate this, because that's the equivalency of 40 MiGs of ALA, which is awesome, right? We love ALA, but now we can start ramping it up. So at five ml, it's 200 MiGs. At 10 ml, that's the equivalency of 400 makes. At 20 ml, it's 800 MiGs, and at 40 ml, at 1600 makes, so, as we'll talk about later, and probably those afterwards, in the specifics of the protocol, this is where you can use it as that driving mechanism, right? It's not a silver bullet, but it can be a powerful one, and it's not just haphazardly thrown into the system. It's understanding. Okay, do we want to drive metabolic now? Do we want to drive them afterwards, or are we going to do a little bit of both all along the journey? Don't know, right? If we got a Prius, guess what, we can go 60 miles to the gallon. If we got a big, you know, f3 50 truck, you only be getting 10 miles a gallon. If you got a SUV, you might be getting 25 so you'll have to adjust it according to whichever vehicle it is you're repairing to help drive that mechanism. And then there's another product that adds vitamin A to that, which is primarily that Dr net found was utilized. He saw differences in what was happening in the blood versus what was happening in solid tissue. And so he added another product with addition of water soluble vitamin A, not a lot, but for those of you that are familiar with the advanced vitamin A protocols, you can use upwards of 1525, I've even seen 50,000 IU of vitamin A for short periods of time to get certain blood situations turned around. And again, I talked about a few things earlier. Here, again, set that table. These are just some of the My go tos, as well as the standards that are out there. You look at any generic nutritional cocktail, and it's going to have some combination of these things, you know, throw in some quercetin, throw in some curcumin, throw in some other things. Okay, fine. But at the heart of what makes that engine tick, yeah, you get these again, there's vitamin D, vitamin A vitamin the simple, low hanging fruit right there. They're simple little ones that are generally inexpensive and can have a profound effect, not because they're super nutrients, but because they play such a key role across a broad spectrum of things. Right as we talked about earlier, where vitamin D is helping the thyroid, it's helping the liver, it's helping the heart, it's helping the neurological capacity. So it's playing a key role in lots of different places for that. So I wish there were certain just one time events that you could just and we've had those, I'm sure, where you did one thing and also the person responded, and it was great. But generally speaking, it's not that case. And what I've seen the true successful cases in the long term, right? A lot of things can get a response early on in the situation, but to truly get that long term turnaround where you've repaired it, you've rejuvenated and you've appropriately restored now that cycle so that now the person is, quote, unquote, been normalized from that perspective, that's a bit of a journey. You know, it doesn't most of these individuals that are coming to us or not. It didn't happen last week. This is a problem that happened three, 510, years ago, and then we're having to find that interconnectedness, and then we're trying to have it, to figure it out. So again, putting in our on our investigative hat, so but again, that fatigue aspect plays a role, especially in the oncology space, where now we're dealing with the chemo and the radio therapies, which no one's going to argue that they don't kill cancer cells. Sadly, they damage other cells. And what primarily do? They damage the mitochondrial aspect of it. Now these these cells have been damaged to a point where there are toxic because they can't even function because of the chemotherapy or the damage and the exposure to that amount of radiation. So, you know, depending on where you're familiar, it preventing it on the front side, moderating it through the treatments, and then restoring it back at the end. So that's where Dr Nario has had that good experience from that perspective. So but again, the broader aspect of it is not just in the oncology. They're the most mitochondrial challenge patient, I would have to say, on the planet, right? Not only do they have dysfunction from their cells, but they also then have the damage from any of the treatments that go along with that. So they're usually the they can usually handle a lot more than the sensitive patients that are going to be the DVDs, the autoimmune the pandas, those types of situations much more delicate. So generally, in the overall application, the higher dosing, the middle dosing and the lower dosing, the sensitive ones are definitely approach them in that low and slow method. So but it's nice to be able to augment those things because of whatever situation is being caused, those chronic situations, whatever is causing the that dysfunction, right? We have to go and investigate that, climb that tree, figure out what that is, but at least you have a tool in your toolbox that helps you to that you know you're protecting and supporting that while you're able to figure out those other things. And that's really been one of the cool things about it, you know, you know, I think Dr Anderson and Dr Forsyth for teaching me that, that, you know, I was always going for, how do we fix that situation? You know, just going to the end of it, and it's like playing. I'll go back to my football analogy, you know, actually, I'll do a basketball analogy. You know, you win the game 100 to 98 Yeah, you won. You wanted to at the end of the game with that last shot at the at the buzzer, and scored the two points. But do those two points? Were they as important as the first two points that were scored in the first quarter? No, they weren't. Now you'll remember it, because it was far more exciting, but on the level of importance. It was important to play that out over each right play, every minute of the game play, every quarter of the game play, it the best you can throughout it, and you'll average out. And so in doing metabolic protocols, that's where I really learned that that's the key. It isn't kind of rush in and say and save it at the at the end of the fourth quarter. It's play it consistently from that so we really learned that in with the athletes. You know, we have a group of individuals now that you know, what they eat and they sleep, how they train, what they track, you know, is pretty amazing. And I was always, I was wondering how that was going to be and where they like the complex is, is in the recovery phase. So it's not like it's going to make them, you know, run the 440 and, you know, another half second flat sooner. What it allows is in recovery. Because when you look at physical demands of some some of these sports, it takes so much out of them that now they have to restore that. Well, if the complex comes along and adds that little jump to it, right? It's a little jump start for those cells. It helps to keep those mitochondria running so they can know where they're working in the background all the time, right? Repairing, restoring, rejuvenating, whatever the cause was, whether the athlete or whether the oncology patient, it doesn't matter. And one of the nice things with it is, for those who do the IV therapies and things you know it has, it has a neutral pH and a low osmolarity. So and whether you do the chord protocols and sulfate protocols, the complex plays right along well with it. So here's an example of one of the classes that I work with, and we teach all the various applications from that perspective. Because, again, that's that's how different the complex is. It allows, not only for the oral applications, but also the advanced protocols that the doctors utilize.

Speaker 3  55:47
And it's been studied tremendously. So we looked at it with Dr Krupp and her MS patients, and simply get the fatigue aspect that way you stay out of any any harms way, with with the FDA about making any claims. But clearly it's doing what restoring the mitochondrial pathway so that those cells can do what maintain with Dr Blick and his HIV patients, again, from the fatigue aspect, from it, we looked at it with simple and the palliative care, you know, and that was one of the studies that really was that awakened my understanding that, you know, mitochondria are not just about the energy. And hey, I wanted to, I can lift more weight today than I could last week to get a good night's sleep. Guess what? You need healthy mitochondria. You know what our nervous can't remember the figure that Dr Greta had measured when how much nerve cells do. So whether we're awake or we're asleep, our nerves, our nerve system, nervous system, doesn't change technically, the amount of energy it's utilizing from just being sitting on a couch watching TV versus actually being asleep. So that's why it requires it. So utilizing that, from that understanding mitochondria, from that perspective, really opened up a whole understanding of how our bodies are utilizing these things. For those either familiar with what the fluoroquivis did and the damage, and so being able to add the complex into that area was profound, because it it really was able to augment the the overall therapy they're doing generally nutritional IVs, along with glutathione and NAD, and then poly, the lamc complex would be the driver for that. And it was also studied for ALS associated fatigue and and the improvements there. So this isn't a new molecule. It's been around for some time, and it has good history behind it, across a broad spectrum. Again, initially, it was always in the oncology space because of that metabolic situation, but the power of that is now just really expanded across the board. We've done radiation research on this, both at 20 ml and 10 ml doses, and I think with those was that, because with radiation, you can regulate the amount so that you can actually measure did it do something, or did it not? And guess what? The cells were able to maintain their antioxide activity in spite of the fact that you know, what do they say with radiation? Don't use an antioxidant because it might minimize that radiation. Now, it didn't happen. It protects DNA. It protected chromosomes or protected the blood. It increased spleen colony formation, it attenuated so they didn't lose animals didn't lose weight, and overall, at the end of day, then it enhances what the radiotherapy was going to do in killing those other cells they didn't want to do so. But again, the problem is, is because it damages the mitochondria first. I mean, if you get a big enough dose of radiation, of course it's going to blow apart DNA, but generally it it's the accumulation of it. And so if you can mitigate that over time, then those that inflammatory infiltration is what it's knocked down. So the last study that they had done with that was at the 10 ml dose, and that was, you know, 18 weeks after the exposure to the radiation, and it still was able to reduce those inflammatory marks. So that's the difference of the complex that it has. So here's an example of probably the most complicated, one of the most complicated applications that you may or may not have seen, but so this is one of the doctors nutrient protocols. So when you see NP, that's what that stands for. So Mondays would be a nutrient protocol followed by the lanc complex. Tuesdays would be an IPT third with glutathione, but sandwiched in right? So in the AM, in the evening, you're still going to get that, that mitochondrial support mechanism. Wednesday would be the oxidative day, followed with the oral Thursday would be come back to that IPT and glutathione followed by the nutrient. So what we're doing here is just sandwiching that in right able to support that mitochondrial aspect. So 24/7, while at the same time driving the various therapies in the in the higher doses, that has what we really been able to pick out with how the complex can really be beneficial. I mean, do we really just want to rely on on vitamin C, or do we really just want to rely on the nutrients, or do we really want to rely on AP? To rely on IPT? No, we really don't, especially in the advanced situations. You want to build that together, then from a metabolic perspective, because we need it right? If this, if we're going after XYZ cells for whatever reason, or XYZ system for whatever reason, we have to be able to take care of it, not just during the treatment, but also afterwards as well, because there's usually detox and then the Restoration of it, right? We know part of it is a reset to the immune system. We know part of it is, is is trying to shut down those particular cells in any way we can, but at the same time to restore that is going to require what that metabolic activity and it just doesn't we can just try and see if the body does it right. That's what conventional medicine is going to do all the time. But if we go in and we set the table right, so generally speaking, in most of the protocols in the application is set that table right. Get them hydrated, get those nutrients in there, get those phospholipids working. Are they low on glutathione? Do they need some carnitine? Do you want some phosphat oil, choline? Or do you want throw in some NAD and then drive it with the complex? Right? Because if this complex is bringing the energy to the party, right, then do it at the end. It's almost kind of like the DJ at any good event, right? The DJ isn't, isn't playing super loud, great music at the beginning. It's just kind of light hearted, little music in the background. Let everybody get comfortable. Let everybody get in, let the food come out, let some drinks start coming out, and then everybody wants to be on the dance floor. So that's one of my analogies from one of my doctors that likes it that way. So, but this is Dr Anderson's typical infusions of of what he was able to teach in the IV classes, about setting that table and then driving that from that perspective. Again, not a silver bullet, but a powerful one that can that can be less than there. So whether you're familiar with the multigen therapies, whether you just want to use it as single agent, if you're familiar with just Alpha Lipoic Acid by itself, you know, sometimes they're referred to as lipoic complexes. Is alpha lipoic acid on steroids because it has a dance partner, not because it's some magical, you know, plant in the middle of the rain forest. And, no, it's not that at all. It is a very unique mechanism targeting a very specific portion of that metabolic activity to then augment, because without it, our cells are literally dead in the water from that perspective. So it's a nice tool to have in that toolbox that you can plug and play and utilize on both sides of the field, right. Going back to my sports analogy, it's not just offense, it's not just defense, it's not just special teams or kicking or the putting unit? No, the complex likes to be in the game, no matter where it's at. It'd be a cheerleader. It'd be a guy in the stands rooting it on. Doesn't care, just wants to be involved at some level, because it'll be driving that activity from that perspective, that's what it looks like. So yes, it looks kind of coffee I slash Coca Cola looking, but usually is a little bit of a What the heck is that in that magnitude? Usually it's generally start with a five ml test dose, and then you ramp up from there based upon what, how much you want to drive, right? But if you, if you do have those sensitive patients, like I mentioned earlier, the oncology patient generally can handle a lot more just because of their disposition and their situation. From a metabolic perspective, those on the sensitive side, don't be surprised if you had to drop down to one ml. You know, it makes me think of the two extremes that I've ever experienced with one was a woman using a four ounce bottle every day, and that was her minimum. If she dropped below a four ounce bottle, it she went, she was in bed. And I, like, thought about that, going to this day, I still think about that, going, what the heck was going on with her to the other woman who, like, half a teaspoon, you know, buckled her over an abdominal discomfort, so she had to go to drops. So her mom took her to drops, and it took her six months before she could get to 40 ml. That's how that's how powerful at a certain level, the complex really is so and don't be surprised. And don't be surprised at all. If you'd see someone do five, they felt great. Do 10. It's awesome. They hit 15. It crashed. Okay. You found their threshold. So the more sensitive you find that individual, definitely, the lower you can go, and you can mix it with as little as in 100 cc of saline or 1000 CC sailing. You want to run it slow. Run it fast. It's really dependent upon your overall approach and protocol from that perspective. So it's pretty user friendly. And again, with children, of course, use Clark's rule, then you can do it up to months a week. I know some of the the inpatient clinics, when they have those patients, they do it five times a week. Now they're not doing the higher doses, but they're augmenting it behind their other therapies that they're doing roughly every day. So they're using it as that driver based upon maybe they're doing hyperbarics, maybe they're doing ozone, or they're doing EBU, or they're doing SOT therapies or doing hyperthermia, or whichever. It doesn't matter either way, and at the end of the day, we need that mitochondrial support mechanism to help drive both recovery and restoration phase. So and because of its

Speaker 3  1:05:30
user friendliness, like I said, the ALA aspect will target and support that liver aspect, so detoxification pathways as well. So if you do a lot of pre and post testing, which I highly recommend, look at those metabolics, look at the pre and post liver as well as kidney functions. And then it's a great marker to be able to show your patients again. Hey, look, we did the X, Y and Z, and look, I get it. You may not feeling better, but guess what? We got the needle moving in the right direction. So, and that's key. So again, here's an example of that, and I'll send out a copy of this so that you guys will have a PDF copy, so you don't have to feel like you have to be writing notes or anything like that. To give you an idea, some of the key points, again, it's in the consistency. And we found that out with the doctors. It isn't that silver bullet, the one and done, and that's all you're going to use it, if you I'd rather see instead of 140 or 5060, ml dose. Divide that up over amongst other days. So do a lower amount this month, but average it out so that you should continue to support the aspect of that metabolic that it's going to need, that that's as simple as what it is. It is an incredible synergist. Dr Anderson like to describe it because it's his driver. And when he used it like that, it was a game changer. He took it off the shelf from being the last ditch effort, and said, Okay, how can I drive this from that perspective, and if you're doing oxidative strategies, the higher dose, then generally, from a biological perspective, because of what oxidative strategies are going to do metabolically, you ideally want that in between there. So if you're familiar with doing some of the artesan high dose C's or ozone or peroxide, then generally it's before. So but the nice thing is, if they can't come in before, then fine, just give them the higher dose orally, and at least it'll be in there. And then you can still sandwich it in. Do a pre they come in visit you, and then they can do it again in the afternoon, when they go home, so and then the next day or the next week, when you do the different therapies, and it's an augmented therapy, right? Not just a standalone it's the key is putting those players together, right? It's not 111, guy, one guy or girl on the team that wins it. It's the team effort that really does that really makes a difference. So and the other nutritional therapies, these ones, you can generally stack in sequence. So if you're like, if you like, stacking right, what you're doing is you're really capitalizing on that synergy of applying it first. So in this case, our test a was low dose C, then you could do the poly first. If you're doing curcumin, then you'll do that first. But generally, if you're doing the water soluble and the Amino facial Coline, then you'll do that after the fact. So again, a unique tool, and these are general guidelines from it, because of the way, again, with with Dr Anderson, he is primarily in the oncology space, in the autoimmune space, so if you need to do it a little bit differently and you come up with something, feel free. It's definitely not, you know. Only would it be this way and that's it, that's anything. That's what we've learned from the different applications and the different practitioners that are that are utilizing it that have allowed, you know, whether it's some of them that use it from an intramuscular perspective, others that use it from a nebulizing perspective. You know, during during COVID, it was profound. From that perspective we have, you know, dermatologists as well as ophthalmologists that are utilizing it. You know, we learned that from the veterinary community that utilizes most of these things. All came from the veterinary community, be honest. Because, again, it makes for far more easier administration in an animal to do the I am injection than it does to try and find a vein on a cat or a dog that you have to sit there with. So that's really the uniqueness of what you have with it. I sometimes wish it was just only do it this way and only that way, and that was it. But sadly, it's a pretty useful tool. So if you like to play around, if you when you think of you know, I'm sure you, everyone's familiar with most of these things, if not all these things, the answer is yes. And ironically, most of them play a role over in what metabolic so for those of you that are familiar with the light light therapies, again, the complex is a photo sensitizer, which makes it unique from that perspective. Again, here's that. What it looks like. So don't get freaked out by it. But some call it their their Coca Cola protocol. If you're familiar with with, you know, major auto hemo therapy, like this evil machine, great, right? Generally, free. And then you run the the evil machine. So again, you're setting the table for the metabolic and then what's, you know, the MH doing. It's then driving that oxygen pathway from the intercellular perspective, if you like a light therapy. So yeah, the complex is a sensitizer in the yellow, green and blue wave lights of light. So again, for those of you that are familiar with that, they run them sometimes in concert. Other times they'll do it before, or they'll run it during. So I've seen it done both ways from that perspective. So the intravenous light therapies that they have so and they use light locally, across knees, shoulders, yeah, so PRP, prolosone, just, they're generally giving some form of B vitamins, and then they just this, just makes it a whole lot more advanced from that perspective, because you're getting not just, you know, you have the b1 you have the b2 you have the b 12, as well as the foam methionine and the lipoic acid complex. So it really makes for a nice, simple, multi ingredient cocktail that you can deliver those tissues so, and that's the last slide of the other so, there we go, that I put everybody to Sleep. I hope,

Speaker 3  1:11:38
Dr Gerber, is that you? Wow, nice to see you. Michael,

Speaker 4  1:11:47
well, thanks. Al, that was a great so there's some we got some questions here for you. You ready to answer some of them?

Speaker 3  1:11:55
Of course, of course, that's what do we got, alright?

Speaker 4  1:11:59
So I think one of the questions here would be, so you mentioned palladium in your product. Everybody was just curious, like, what is that for? What is the action of palladium?

Speaker 3  1:12:19
So the mineral sequestered. That's why we call it lipoic acid mineral complex. So you have alpha lipoic acid on one side, if you saw that one picture in the fish bowl, right? So you have vitamin on the other side. It's the bridge that binds the two. So it's not free on any level. Body doesn't utilize palladium for any reason, so it's, it's it what's what makes the trimmer to the redox capacity. It's the only mineral that the doctor and I had tried it from over 10,000 different type of compounds that he put together that would hold the Alpha Lipoic Acid and climbing together. So that's the reason so,

Speaker 4  1:12:56
but it is toxicity to that. Of course, that's one of the bigger questions. No,

Speaker 3  1:13:04
right? So it goes in as the complex. It comes out of the complex so and all the safety and all the data that had ever been done for the Indies, no, it has clearance. Depending the longer you use it, then it'll always be there. So for those of you that do any type of heavy metal testing, do that pre putting them on Poly, or, excuse me, the complex. Because the second you put them on the complex, it'll it'll be off the charts, and they'll be freaking out in the second, what's all this palladium? And say, well, it's in the mineral. So think about it as almost like a cobalt that's in cobalamin.

Speaker 4  1:13:43
So no, no need for checking your kidney functions, liver functions before putting that in,

Speaker 3  1:13:51
only from the perspective that it's good to do that to see any improvement, right? So, but as far as any stress that's going to be put on them, no,

Speaker 4  1:14:01
okay, yeah, and I have used this, this product, and again, I have done this, and saw palladiums Really go up in relation to to testing, but it's really more of the the benefit that patients get from it. Another one is, if you use this, are you said, Can you suggest any specific biomarkers in terms of monitoring and how it's working.

Speaker 3  1:14:26
So primarily you'll look at the metabolites, right? So if you do any oats testing, do metabolic testing, look at so if you really want to see that it's actually doing something, that's what you'll measure. If you know, in the quality of life and in the fatigue scales, of course, that's where we measured, ultimately, both in the humans and in the animals that we looked at, not just any type of oncology markers that that was, it was or, like I mentioned in the in the MS study or the ALS study, it was on the fatigue primarily, But there are other markers did improve as well

Speaker 4  1:15:02
any, any, I guess, experience with HSC, RP, for example, or,

Speaker 3  1:15:07
yep. So your inflammatory markers, definitely. So you'll see your inflammatories, your C reactive protein, your homocysteine, yeah. And then a lot of times, people will have the question on, you know, the different B vitamins and whether they're MTF, HR, positive or negative. So no, if no, issues with that. If anything, we've actually seen the improvements from that perspective.

Speaker 4  1:15:28
So Right? And then another question here, why is it black,

Unknown Speaker  1:15:35
primarily the B vitamins?

Speaker 4  1:15:38
Because if these vitamins are yellow and orange. They're probably used to seeing that, and I do get that a lot when, when we were giving this, they're ready to get that Coca Cola IV, as they call it, or that's more from the divide the B vitamins. You said,

Speaker 3  1:15:55
Well, it's the combination of, right? So, you know, the more colors you stick together. What's the color that it makes? Is black, right? So the darker the color, but that's primarily it. So

Speaker 4  1:16:07
it's not, it's not a dirty solution. No,

Speaker 3  1:16:12
it's not a dirty solution. No, okay, now it's not, it's not, it's not the best tasting one either. But there are no, you know, we don't, we don't flavor it. We don't try to cover the flavor. It's it's natural, vitamins, minerals, amino acids, combinations a lot of times. Dr Garnett, and I describe it as it's, for those of you that have ever made a complex recipe in your home, once you take it out of the oven, there's new bonds that have been made, right? You could have chicken, you could have cheese, you could have some sour cream, if you're making, say, chicken enchiladas or something, once it's cooked in that, in that oven, that's what it is. And so that's why the complex is stable. Unlike alpha lipoic acid that is would get damaged by light just sitting out there. This this material does not because it's bound in a completely different way. So it only exists in that bottle, in that as that formulation, right?

Speaker 4  1:17:06
Oh, and then I think in the chat, where can we find the energy stick? I think that's Claudia. And Claudia, I think,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:16
you know, yeah, yeah,

Speaker 5  1:17:18
on Amazon and, but I thought it would be fun to play with it. And, like you said, show people the energy of our bodies, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:17:25
Exactly, right? What people,

Speaker 5  1:17:30
yeah, and I like, what you said is, like, the joining hands was amazing, right? Like, we actually energize each other. Wow, that's crazy. It's pretty

Speaker 3  1:17:38
cool. But, I mean, think about it, you know, if for for those of us that have ever been in a prayer group or sat around and said, you know, hold hands, and just for any reason whatever, hey, we're dancing around the table, there's energy that's created, you know, and the difference that that, that, it's profound to me, you know, when I was younger, honestly, and people told me that, of course, I was Like, yeah, yeah, whatever. That's like, that's like 10% of the of the process. And now I'm like, Oh no, like a 90% of the product, right? The mindset and how that plays on the energy, it changes the field, you know, you know, dr, dr Gerber, and what he's shown me and and taught me about how he can measure that energy in an individual based upon what they need. I mean, it's, it's profound.

Speaker 4  1:18:27
So you gave Claudia a new toy there. Alright, cool. So another one is you mentioned in your slides, b1, as an oxidant. Everybody knows. I guess this question was coming from b1 or vitamin B in general, is known to be an antioxidant. Is this also a special formulation of your of your product? What is that? So,

Speaker 3  1:18:50
when you, when you think of what right, when something will accept or donate electrons, it can things can switch so by binding it to the alpha lipoic acid and and the mineral. Now it becomes an oxidant, rather than an antioxidant, because

Speaker 4  1:19:10
of the binding that that's what shifted the function of your new bond, okay, all right, that makes sense. It's it's

Speaker 3  1:19:16
a completely different chemical structure. So that, that funky little picture that was in there within the fish bowl. That's the molecular structure where you take, like alpha lipoic acid by itself, thymine by itself, and you've created a completely different structure, but out of those two ingredients, so now it has different characteristics.

Speaker 4  1:19:33
Well. So let me, let me tell the audience here how great this product is. This is something that, as you showed Dr Paul Anderson, she he's a very knowledgeable naturopath who's who works in in Seattle, I think, and who also is in the realm of oncology. And he had made so many protocols about poly MBA, not only for mitochondrial regeneration, but also in his cancer protocols. And the group, I think, IV NTP, another group of naturopaths, who actually does courses about IV therapies and featured this product in their protocols as well. That's why I highly endorse anybody who's interested in using not only this product, but they teach a lot of botanical IV therapy and even oxidative therapies in these courses. So they're, they're out there, but, and that's where I guess I saw poly MBA, in terms of, like, the you have booths all the time, you guys are probably participating in these specific conferences. So that's why, just, that's just bashing for how how effective this is if used the right way, right? So it was interesting

Speaker 3  1:20:48
in insane, as you just said, use the right way. So I got off a call earlier with a doctor on the East Coast, and and they used it for about a year and a half, and and I talked to him, and they said, No, we stopped using and just went back top of the book. Yeah. To Alpha block acid. Now at what I go, Okay, I've never, my 25 years of doing this, I've never heard someone say they went back to Alpha Lipoic Acid. I'm like, All right, what are you doing? And it took me a good 45 minutes to dig in what they were doing. And they were just doing it as a standalone, and then saying they didn't see as much of an impact as a standalone I went, well, it's so I had to re explain kind of a lot of what I just talked about here. And they went, Oh, I'm like, Yeah, you weren't doing it the right way to a certain degree, you know, one IV a month or something, and saying, No, that's not how Polly's, you know, poly Is that is that driver from that perspective? I mean, I'm happy to do any tests against one to one, head to head with something, but that's not what works, right? That's that'd be a waste of time, money and effort. Let's put that energy and effort into in the synergy of all the tools we have. That's the power of the complex. Yes,

Speaker 4  1:21:54
it's really good for stacking protocols, as you would see as you presented that, that it works real well with with other components, and that's how we we use it. Also for cancer, that it's not a standalone therapy, but it actually is in a combination with other protocols. As you, I guess, displayed already, the protocol that that we use already, so that's the one with the IPT, and also the thing you're doing it now orally. So as one of that questions there, how much now do you give in these IPT patients the oral version? I think that's what you just revised there, right? So how much did they receive in those days? So

Speaker 3  1:22:36
minimum would be 10 ml, twice a day, maximum would be 20 ml. So

Unknown Speaker  1:22:44
is that with food, without food?

Speaker 3  1:22:45
So generally food is not required for the assimilation. So if to get better absorbability, you just need water, and it'll pass through the gut. It doesn't break down. It's one of the things that Dr Annette create here, designed into that product. As far as the complex goes, that it'll just go through so, and that's where it's nice to have it, as you know, if you get it to the tissue that you're trying to restore that need the energetics to repair themselves, right? Normal cell restoration doesn't happen by magic. It happens by metabolic activity driving the tissue to repair itself. So this is where, again, the dermatological, terminological aspect of it, both topically and even subcutaneously, around various applications, has been profound, really profound, so. And

Speaker 4  1:23:31
I think I spoke to you about this, we have Dr zir from the Philippines. And I think you mentioned before that this, this, yeah, poly was in the Philippines in the past. And also you said there was, there was a big market there, yeah? And yeah, as as we have all of these doctors from the Philippines, hopefully we can bring this wonderful product over there, as we enjoy this here in the states also. So

Speaker 3  1:23:59
yeah, definitely, will try and get it into that ampule size vial, so that way it's much more user friendly, especially overseas,

Speaker 4  1:24:06
right? And a question from Dr Quinn is the final IV product, I guess, that you showed light sensitive.

Speaker 3  1:24:14
So, no, as I mentioned earlier, it's not light sensitive. So that's one of the nice it's a stable molecule, so it's not going to degenerate or degrade in light.

Speaker 4  1:24:25
So are you saying that you can make IV poly pass through and then light at the same time with it? Is that what you're you're saying,

Speaker 3  1:24:34
Well, no, no. So generally Alpha Lipoic Acid, like, if you had it, like, here's a bag, right? If you just set it here in light, it's going to break the break down. Oh, this one will not so, but along with the IV therapy. So in that one picture, yeah, the there was, you know, the one going this way, and then the the light therapy, and the other one, so, right? It's like a Weber light, correct? There's, I think, there's the the Weber laser machine, and there's a couple others out there that you know, depending on which one you have. So and again, what are we doing with light therapies? Is we're just applying energy to the system. So if you can augment energetics, even with light therapy, there's a profound healing effect from that.

Speaker 4  1:25:16
Okay, you're right. And another question here is for the radio therapy patients. I mean, how do you apply this? You can just before, intra or after. Like, how do you protect our radio therapy patients, especially the ones for cancer, right?

Speaker 3  1:25:34
So if definitely before and definitely after, and then if you have any ability to be doing and augmenting nutritional therapies or IV therapies before that, then during as well. I mean, that way we're not overstepping the bounds with the oncologist. And you know, sometimes they get a little touchy on what's being done, but definitely pre set them up and then post, get them to recovery.

Speaker 4  1:25:57
Sure, I think this is one from one of your slides. So it was saying separate Lam scene with IV for two to six hours. So you're saying you're going to make them go home first or go out and then give the next IV. So

Speaker 3  1:26:12
again, no, you wouldn't want to make them do that, but that's where you could augment it from the oral side. So give them a larger dose, pre and post, and then that's good enough. You'll get, you know, if, depending on their their digestive situation, in their gut, whether they're going to be taking in, absorbing, you know, 40% of it or 80% of it, right? At least, it's better than nothing. So Right?

Speaker 4  1:26:39
Also, it's not really you're saying, Go home, come back, eat and then let's give you another bag here, right? Or,

Speaker 3  1:26:46
or plan it out so that you could give them just a little bit so, and it would depend, like, are we talking a 75 gram vitamin C following an EBU, or we just doing a 50 gram vitamin C and, and how much time was it given some, some some run. It a whole lot faster, but ideally, a little a little bit is better than nothing, right? So even if you had to just do a simple three or five or 10 CC push, that's better than nothing,

Speaker 4  1:27:18
right? And you showed an EVO on the in your presentation. How do you now stack this up with the new E blue machines?

Speaker 3  1:27:27
So ideally, you'll want to do it before, so that it's in the blood, and you're going to oxygenate that blood, and then now it's going to be able to be reactivated. So we bubble the ozone through poly. It doesn't lower the ozone. It doesn't disassociate the molecule, and especially mix it with blood. It'll be fine.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:46
See, your blood black. It

Unknown Speaker  1:27:50
does get, does get a little darker, but doesn't get black.

Speaker 4  1:27:55
We don't want to mess those, those filters there, right, right? Yeah. So that's, I guess, one of the bigger questions here this. I know the answer to this question already. They're asking that before Polly was in IV form. Now it's just in oral. I guess they were so used to probably using the IV versions. And now, I don't know if you're ready to answer this here, but that's one of their curiosities. Now you're showing IV formulations of it and but the one they only see is oral. Well, it just,

Speaker 3  1:28:29
you know, the change in the compounding pharmacy arena has has changed a lot in the marketplace. So there are, there are pharmacies out there that are still compounding for the doctors. So it just depends on where you're at, what state? Some states ship here. Some states don't. So yeah,

Speaker 4  1:28:46
do you have pharmacies to recommend to our practitioners?

Speaker 3  1:28:49
So there's a drug crafters in Frisco, Texas, and then you have the one in Washington, which is harbor health. Harbor health is another, yeah, I'll send you a list, and then you can send it out to everybody. That way. It's the most updated. This is not relying on my memory of,

Speaker 4  1:29:13
Oh, so you're not doing the filtration anywhere. This is just, I

Speaker 3  1:29:17
mean, I mean, so if the practitioners have it set up in their office, then you can, they can definitely do the cell filtration themselves. So I mean, the product that the pharmacies are utilizing is the same product. So it's not a different form, it's not a different formulation. So that's one you

Speaker 4  1:29:32
have a technique that you do filter, right? That's where it's the

Speaker 3  1:29:36
standard, the standard technique that utilizes a point two micron filter. So if you're familiar with that, then it just looks like that. So all right, just a disc filter, and then you have to follow again, every state's a little different, you know, prepare your SOPs, follow your procedures, do all your documentation, because that's what it's really about. It safety, safety, safety. So, you know, be safe regardless of on label, off label, use you document it, you put it in the file, you do all those things, and then there's no issues. It's, it's a go off the reservation and just try to wing it that can

Speaker 4  1:30:12
and I have done it. So to tell you the truth, I have done the filtered version and gave it in that form. I mean, use it on myself also. So that's probably I like. I definitely like poly. So don't, don't think dodges. Hopefully it's not, they're not just not thinking it's for cancer. But again, mitochondrial rejuvenation, generation. That's why this product is really just one of a kind, if I may say, Well, when

Speaker 3  1:30:40
you think about just all those ways you just described doing it, so imagine, you know, taking all those different ingredients that I showed and then putting them in a bottle, shaking it up and doing all these things with it. No, you would not do that. No, no, yeah, make someone very sick, if not hurt them very bad. So, yeah, that's how unique it is. You know, if we brought out the complex and the product poly today, it would be a dietary supplement, it would have to be a drug.

Speaker 4  1:31:12
And that's one of the questions here about carrier solutions. So they're saying, they're asking, what are the compatible ones? And you mentioned about the mixture, you don't want to mix anything with poly. What about LR or saline that has all of these other So, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:31:29
so you can use normal saline, D, 5w, or lactator ringers, not a problem. So, you know, water, right? It's generally things like, you know, people want to start mixing some glutathione in there, or methylene blue, you know, they just kind of want to put their own little concoction to generally, to save time. And I understand the reason why, however, yeah,

Speaker 4  1:31:49
no, because, again, just don't put it in the same bag,

Speaker 3  1:31:53
right? That's correct. That's right. You can stack it, but not in the same bag, right?

Speaker 4  1:31:57
Another interesting application for this would be eye drops, I think you, you showed me that when we saw each other, you, you actually placed this in the eyes. I don't know if anybody out there would be courageous doing that, but I'll show that. And he did it. So,

Speaker 3  1:32:14
yeah, the pharmacy had compounded that based upon request by an ophthalmologist, and it originally actually started with in the animals, because the horses, they have a cancer the eye. So what were they going to do, right? And how much would you have to give a horse to in any type of infusion? So they just put it directly into the horse's eye and then save the eye so and

Unknown Speaker  1:32:38
you can still see, right? Yep.

Speaker 3  1:32:42
Great. Great for dry eyes, though I still have to wear glasses, but I thought you were

Speaker 4  1:32:50
kind of squinting a while ago. You can't see us, but yeah, I can tell you can see. I think this is one of your slides, also from one of your slides. Why is lemc first before our testing, had been curcumin. Would that be bad if you do it after? I mean, it's a sequence question. I guess it's not so

Speaker 3  1:33:08
in those situations. For those key points, it's not so much that it's going to be bad. What it simply is, is that it's when you look at the mechanism of what those are doing, that's why you'd want it first, not, not that you're going to get some crazy interaction or some negative response or something like that. No, it was about realizing that the outcome was going to be better by setting the table with the metabolic, then doing those oxidative or then doing what? Because would you when you look at curcumin, primarily it's, it's and it's a difficulty from the perspective of, you know, a fat soluble which is a little more complicated. So I don't know if there's still anybody still doing curcumin out there, but

Unknown Speaker  1:33:46
we are. We're still doing curcumin. Okay, so

Unknown Speaker  1:33:49
have you done either one of those or

Speaker 4  1:33:52
No, again, we kind of follow that up with the Greek test. I haven't done the combo of poly after but okay, I don't think there's any issue, or even before, well,

Speaker 3  1:34:05
and speaking of the Greek test, it's out there, so I know that it had brought up. So I think Paul, he's on the on the Greek test, yes, but here's, here's the, I don't say it's an issue. Here's the concern. So you know, what is the Greek test doing? Right? It's, it's taking the blood, spinning it up, multiplying the blood, the cancer cells, sticking in a petri dish, dropping whatever agent inside them, and looking for apoptosis in 72 hours. Okay, great. That works, wonderful for a chemotherapy, but that's not how vitamin C works. That's not how poly works. That's not how glutathione works, right? They need to be in the organism to have the activity, to do what they do. So and here's the other thing, especially with vitamin C, you're putting vitamin C in a petri dish, and then you're going to go give them an idea vitamin C, it's you would not give you would not not give anybody vitamin C in that space for any reason, right? You might not give them a high dose or a low dose, you know, like Dr Forsythe taught me, if it came back, he would simply use a higher amount. But he never, not used it in his protocol, regardless of what the Greek test said, right? He used that primarily for his top three chemotherapies, because that's what he was looking for. Just the chemotherapy, because that's what it does. We'll know if you get apoptosis, and there's no guarantee it just gives a higher probability that it's going to have success. So

Speaker 4  1:35:29
yeah, so I do agree with you that even in general, for all practitioners, if a test is in vitro tested, you just really have to make sure you add your clinical eye on this one, just because not everything done on in vitro testing, you have to remember there's so many factors going on in a system, the immune system, other infections, other inflammatory conditions of the patient. So so let's go back to your point about the Greek test. For example, ivermectin didn't come out right as a as an effective therapy, we still, we still give this to the patient. For example, number one, there are good indications for it, and also, number two, if the patient chooses to use it, we can definitely say that. We don't want to say no, but we can definitely still try. So I do agree with in vitro testing. That's just the bigger challenge, and that's why Paul, you kind of, I understand. And there's so many multiple components to the product that it's really hard to assess unless you isolate and test each and every one of them on the on the sample. So yes, so I do agree.

Speaker 3  1:36:34
Well, in which line of time? I mean, we did, we did, you know, the cell line testing, you know, 30 years ago. So yeah, we know. We there's an indication there. However, as you mentioned, most in vitro testing, once it goes to clinical application, fails 90% of the time. So is it a good indication? It's a great place to start, however, but it's a very Yeah, but a chemotherapy that's different, right?

Speaker 4  1:36:59
Right, right. And there are new companies now out there. So when I went to Germany, there are other two cancer testing companies that I have seen just forgot the name, but they also kind of go into this direction that they are questioning the in vitro studies. So they kind of went into a different direction. So you would notice that in in Europe, there are more of these nutraceutical testing companies for cancer therapy. But again, no doubt, polymy always has a place in relation to the oncology world. And not only that, as I mentioned to you, there's so many uses for it. So I guess you got all my questions out. So any last words? Al, for our viewers here, I have a quick Oh, there. There. Dr Bennett, yeah,

Speaker 6  1:37:46
so I didn't follow the whole thing, but what is the role of beta oxidation in this whole process, and how do we get cachexia in the cancer patients?

Speaker 3  1:38:01
So what is the role of beta oxidation? Beta oxidation, okay, and how does that drive the cachexia in cancer patient? Right? Okay, so, so when, when they get to the cachectic state, right? It the cells are now cannibalizing themselves. They've they've switched over to an aggressive form. There's not enough fuel in the system, so what it starts to do is it starts to cannibalize the own tissue, right? So if it makes that switch, that's a very dangerous switch, because that's a hard landslide to stop, as they call it. So that's where normalizing and helping to drive your normal metabolic pathway is the only way to stop that, right? It isn't just about getting them more nutrition. It's actually turning on their normal mitochondria so that it could be producing enough energy so that it says, I'm going to go away from cannibalization. But generally, that's that oxidative step is is very aggressive and it's damaging.

Speaker 4  1:39:00
So we understand better oxidation, of course, is the carrying of the of the free fatty acid into the mitochondria to be used as energy. And of course, we know that that is a more mountable type of energy compared to our glucose metabolism. Is that something that is also done by poly using it's also a ketosis, right? You know,

Speaker 3  1:39:25
yes, right? But what happens is, it'll start breaking down the membranes, right? Where's it getting the fat from? And once you run out of fat, then nothing's left, so it'll start to break down the muscle, then it'll start breaking down the tissues. That's where it becomes far more oxidative. But as far as, I mean, probably simply gonna help to normalize that metabolic pathway. So if it can give an alternative energy source, then it doesn't need to steal it from somewhere else. So that's, that's the hopes of what that's driving from that perspective, and minimizing any type of, you know, those, I'm trying to remember whether that to go look in. Dr, hernette's work is to because I know he measured it with different radicals, but I don't know if he measured it with the beta hydroxy radicals.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:16
Did I answer your question? Dr, yes,

Unknown Speaker  1:40:17
yes. That's yeah, that's good. So

Speaker 4  1:40:21
we have some questions here for you. Also, what is the contraindication of this treatment?

Speaker 3  1:40:29
Simply any additional alpha and then, if you again, if you're doing heavy oxidative therapy, simply just separate them by 246, hours. I know some of the physicians out there utilize both EBU and high dose vitamin C. That's quite a heavy, oxidative day. But again, Vitamin C is generation of oxidative pathway versus ozone is different. So ozone generally gone much quicker, whereas you'll get that longer effect, as long as that depending on how much dose and how much metabolism, metabolic activity is burning off that vitamin C. So

Speaker 4  1:41:08
I mean, would you be worried about the Alpha Lipoic because hydro Alpha Lipoic Acid orally has been noted to actually shut down thyroid function. So that is a consistent oral doses of almost 900 milligrams per day, but chronically, though, is this something that you're worried about checking thyroid functions along with the alpha lipoic acid that you use

Speaker 3  1:41:31
in all the tests that they did that this is where alpha lipoic acid as a single molecule to Where it gets too much is dangerous. The lamc Poly complex is balanced because it has its cofactor of B vitamin, right? So therefore, it's, it's not going to, it's not going to be a runaway train,

Speaker 4  1:41:52
yeah? So basically, you know, very safe, no, not much, unless you rarely, probably get hypersensitive or allergic risk reactions to to politics. Do you need to skin test this or no, you

Speaker 3  1:42:04
know, I don't think you need to. But could you, if you really have someone who is a sensitive individual to then not a problem to do that? I mean, we've, there's only been two in my entire experience that have had that type of severe reaction. But other than that, no so very low. But if you had somebody and you want to be concerned, it's an easy test, and a lot of the doctors will do simply, whether they'll do it topically as a skin test, or they'll do it sublingually in an oral fashion, both are just as effective. So

Speaker 4  1:42:42
another one from Anna, can Hashimotos patients have this therapy? Yes, oh yeah, there

Speaker 3  1:42:47
was any we were talking about Hashimotos earlier on. Yeah, in the autoimmune situation, generally, you'll, you'll, you won't get up upwards of of 10 ml, and you don't need to. But again, start low and tight, titrate your way up. So yeah, Hashimoto, Epstein, Barr, Lyme, and

Speaker 4  1:43:08
then that's too you could definitely see antibodies decline in relation to using this

Speaker 3  1:43:14
well. And as you mentioned in your in your mold patients, right? So in your mold patients, how much were you getting? Oh,

Speaker 4  1:43:25
for, for my patients, I definitely go for the I don't even start at five. That's a little low for me, right? I go for really more for, like, the 10s, 20s and then 30s, 40s, but just for the money that they pay for it, I kind of stay at the 2040, range.

Speaker 3  1:43:44
Okay, so and again, you've had more experience with it, so generally, that's where they get away with it. You know, we always just say five to be safe, right,

Speaker 4  1:43:53
right? Of course, I understand. But really, it's all about stacking. You need to stack this therapy. I mean, if you're a healthy individual, sure you can benefit from from Poly, but if you're really in this chronic stage type of illness, you really want to stack it up with good therapies. And there's so many therapies now out there that can work well with with poly.

Speaker 3  1:44:14
So, and it's nice, because, like you said, you can, you can adjust it so, you know, just, just play with if you want to start out, it's a great little ad to whatever you're doing, generally speaking. Just Just see what five ML does. And don't start it with someone who's a new patient. Start with someone that's already existing, someone that you know. You just wish you could just turn that corner just a little bit and get them, get get them hanging a better right than where they're going. That's where the power of poly really plays out. And

Speaker 4  1:44:43
are you talking about starting you can do? I am. Oh yeah, I am always a starter. Yep, you wanted that. If you if your practice gives out b 12 shots, Hey, give Polly and VA shots. I've done that before, so that also is something that's worth doing, and I've seen good results for that. Well, Al, this is the the floor is yours. Promote your product and tell them how they can contact you and how to open up. Practitioner accounts for for them, so it's all yours. Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:45:18
never been really a good salesman. From that perspective. I just like, I love doing all the science and background stuff, because that's where you really learn all the all the tips and tricks. But you know, just, just reach out to polymv.com or polymv dot store to set up your account. Either one, I'm happy to put out my my contact here on the on the message board, so if you need to email me, feel free to to email and then,

Speaker 4  1:45:50
and I'll promote you. So Al runs a poly MVA talks webinar also, and he features a lot of great practitioners who uses poly, and you will actually hear other practitioners and how they they execute this product in their practice. I've listened to so many of them, and a lot of good naturopaths, a lot of good practitioners, so I think you send out emails for that right practitioners. So I learned a lot from those webinars. So I and Kylie encouraged everybody to join. Well, thank

Speaker 3  1:46:22
you, Dr Nara, appreciate that. Yeah. No, thanks, yeah. I mean, my goal is to learn. I wish I could sit here and say that this is I was taught all these things, and so I'm only able to share what I've experienced from that from the other doctors. So, you know, I love kicking around the ideas with patients. So feel free if you have some ideas or thoughts, you know, ring me up, give me a call. Happy to to wonder about that, because we wouldn't be able to share or even be here if it wasn't for the practitioners that laid the groundwork so much before. And it really honors, as I mentioned when I seen Dr Garnett last week, was was what he created, something that is truly yet to be understood, that he was able to bond to to supplement components together into a complex that is really changing people's lives. That that's the cool thing about it. So I love that kind of stuff. That's where I really want to do and really want to be in the research aspect of it, but it wouldn't be anywhere without without everyone's help. So I really appreciate that. Thank you all. Yeah, reach out pauline.com sign up, and we'll put you in contact. I'll definitely send out that the email for the various pharmacies and other locations and contacts, and we'll go from there you

Bill Clearfield  1:47:34
want. We can send you the contacts from everybody that was on tonight. Oh

Speaker 3  1:47:39
yeah, happy to I'll send them, I'll drop them a line say hello. And that was great to see Dr Gerber. Had seen him in a few years, so good. So I

Bill Clearfield  1:47:47
want to thank you, Al for for being here, and it was, it was really a joy to hear your enthusiasm and your you know your passion, and you know the great work that you're doing, and Doctor Nario for taking over and running, running with it, because he knows you know way more about this stuff than I do. So thank you a lot. Thank you everybody for being on here. Yeah, next week. By the way, next week we have a very special person coming. Her name is and I'm going to get it wrong. Her name is Evangelica papasti steel. She is of Greek origin. She's actually my good friend's step daughter. She has recently got her PhD in cell biology from the University of Paris, and she will be speaking to us about uveal melanoma, which is not a topic we usually hear about, but I think you know, especially for us more mature people, she's a person who's an up and coming researcher, and she is just a super and she will be speaking to us live from Paris, which is at 2am her time live. And she insisted on on speaking live to that so spread the word, because she's really unbelievably a bright and terrific young person. And just last November, she just got her PhD in cell biology, and she's, she's, she's a force to be reckoned with, really. So next week, I know nobody here probably has ever heard of her, but you'll know better after next week. So I'm looking forward to it, and I hope you all can bring somebody along with you. So Al, thank you so much again. Thank you appreciate it. And Dr Nario, thank you for being the moderator. When you're ready to take over, let me know. And Dr Quinn, how are we doing with the research group, by

Speaker 7  1:49:56
the way, oh gosh, can you hear me? Okay, yeah, we hear you. Fine. Oh, okay, phenomenal. Phenomenal. Last week was the meeting was actually three hours. We have got so many fronts that we are that we're looking at one of the main, well, the two main things that we're doing, and hopefully Dr channel can can chime in here, is establishing a program, whether it be at a brick and mortar type of university, what we have in mind is called University of natural medicine. There's one in Las Vegas. There may be one in Florida. I'm not sure. Doctor zvenya is the one that is coordinating. That he is the tribal judge is also helping to coordinate all things tribal, whether that be the the apothecary that we're working on to bring in products that might be a little bit God, not edgy, but, you know, cutting edge type of things that that some areas are against. So we're developing that. Again, the Compendium is coming along quite fine. And Dr Tano is information is second of none. I think he's got two type of courses that we're looking at for people. We're going to try to find out if it's going to be a degree course or a certificate course or both. One is, I think, is a six week the other is a two year course, using the information and he's got plus some information from everybody else. Everybody is is encouraged to participate in this educational platform. That's that's kind of where we are, that. And we're working with Pete Dimitri on a phenomenal detoxification compound that he refers to as the molecule. And it's in some phase one trial, I believe, or went through, that we're looking to get that thing out as a supplement ahead of time. It's unbelievable. It's a heavy metal key later that you you don't lose the magnesium and other things through that key later that you do through EDTA, DMPS, DMSA, so that's kind of it.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:04
Okay, we're on we're on a roll, huh?

Speaker 7  1:52:07
Oh yeah, we're going great. We are going great, making a lot of progress. John Burgess is back.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:14
I see Dr Burgess is here, John, how you doing? Or just listening,

Speaker 7  1:52:25
yeah, yeah. He, he's, he's amazing. He's helping move this monster forward as well. So again, if people want to jump on, they can just get a hold of us. Any of us.

Bill Clearfield  1:52:39
Yep, it's Saturday morning, 9am 9am Pacific, 12 noon. Fire time,

Speaker 7  1:52:44
noon, East Coast, 9am for me, yeah. So

Bill Clearfield  1:52:48
yeah, if anybody's interested to get in touch with either me or Doctor Quinn or doctor Cano, we'll, we'll, we'll get you in touch. We'll get you to the links and get you in, in the in the room. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:03
Okay, excellent. Thanks for asking.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:06
Anytime I ask you every week, I'm sorry. Any, any, any, any final, oh, there is Hi. Dr Burgess, how are

Speaker 8  1:53:12
you? I was muted. I'm so sorry. But to Al Sanchez, I don't know if you've been 20 or 30 years ago, but I go back to the beginning with you, your dad, your researcher, the PT PhD researcher, Burton Goldberg, this whole team, and I know what happened back in those days, and I have to ask With the FBI, the planting, all the bullshit lies. Were they ever punished in any way for the crimes they committed against you and your family? No, okay, that's all. They're so up to the so I'm amazed. You're still here. I'm glad you did. It was a miracle from God that you even got out of that hole in the beginning.

Speaker 3  1:54:04
Yeah, everybody, it's, it's, yeah, I left out that fun part of the story. So, you know, my dad goes back to, you know, the late 80s of doing this integrative medicine, before it had a name, and back then, they were just drug runners, right?

Speaker 8  1:54:29
I was on the East Coast and dealing with a 4m way, way back then, right? Wow, yeah. And we got the results from Dr Forsyth and the success you guys had with the cancer, and the success was so incredible. I hopped on a plane, flew out to wherever, Las Vegas, maybe, and arena, and spoke with Dr Forsyth directly. I got on a bus, and he was on the bus. And I said, I'm here for one reason. I want to know if what you have done and the results I'm seeing are true. Is it true that you're getting these success rates? And I found out that all of you had made major discoveries, and it was a big deal. It was just a political, crazy issue. So anyway, thank you for all that. You're welcome

Speaker 3  1:55:24
Well, and again, that's where, you know, we learned to integrate it and to do it the way, so that I'm still here and Paulie is still here, you know, and take that target off the back, because it is helping people. And at the end of the day that that was it. And so, you know, I'll keep waving the the banner in the flag as long as I can. That's for sure. Thank you. You're welcome.

Bill Clearfield  1:55:48
Yeah, we all have a story to tell, right? John,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:50
oh boy,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:54
wow. So alright, and with that, any last words, Al, summary, or anything like that.

Speaker 3  1:56:02
So God bless everybody. Thank you so much for everybody. Once you've done and I look forward to working with you guys that need anything, need something. I need some volume, I'll be on a plane to wherever you're at. We'll figure this out, because that's what I love to do.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:14
Okay? Dr Tano, anything

Speaker 6  1:56:20
I think Dr Quinn, Doctor Quinn, summarized it or nothing. And thank you very much for this beautiful presentation, I would say, because that's nice.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:32
Okay, alright, alright, everybody, thank you so much. We'll see you next week, same time, same station, and we will have, like I said, a very special guest. So see if we can get a, you know, a nice, nice crowd to to listen to her. Okay? Al, thank you so much. We'll be in touch. Okay, I look forward to it. Bye, bye. Okay, thank you all. Okay. Good night, everybody. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai