Bill Clearfield  02:56
You, Bill, Hey, John, How's it going?

Unknown Speaker  03:02
Pretty Excellent.

Bill Clearfield  03:05
Pretty Excellent. Is that what you said?

Speaker 1  03:07
Yeah, my body is not getting worse.

Bill Clearfield  03:12
All right. Well, that's that's a start,

Speaker 1  03:15
yeah, and the meeting, and our meeting that we're doing here is coming off pretty well. Kathy O'Brien is an assured visitor with her, and with that comes if you want or we want Hollywood, Roseanne Barr and other celebrities. So we're going to show her fine ourselves when she visits. I mean, you're gonna have to yourself up, huh? Yeah, a little bit you're gonna, you're

Bill Clearfield  03:50
gonna have to behave yourself.

Speaker 1  03:53
Shit, man, I I'm trying so hard, Bill, I swear to God, I'm trying so hard not to kick things around, mess things up. This is a pretty big opportunity we have here. Okay, good, if it goes well. And you want to start repeating some things on the East Coast, we got the university, we got this Bavarian in both are really nice.

Bill Clearfield  04:23
Okay, so we get a little surprise guest before our regular speaker, and this young lady is named Leor, sure, sure she's going to explain we're going to give her we, most of the folks filter in right around five and continue on. So there's no point in starting early. We don't have a whole lot on just yet. So

Speaker 2  04:51
okay, I just wanted to make sure you see me. You hear me.

Bill Clearfield  04:56
We see you. Fine. So we met at the I spoke at the American Academy of ozone therapy, Dr Shannon burgers group over the weekend. They're, they're, they're a good bunch. We had a great time. And there are people, John,

Speaker 1  05:12
yeah, natural, natural immunogenics. They keep preaching shell and burger too. So he must be something.

Bill Clearfield  05:24
So, doctor, sure, I'm not sure I have that. Did you skip that?

Speaker 2  05:33
Just Leo, you know, I just like Lee or because, apparently I got somewhat of a wrong doctorate. So every every physician asked me, Oh, my word.

Bill Clearfield  05:44
In other words, you got a real doctor, not like us.

Speaker 2  05:50
Somehow I ended up where I didn't meant to be, but

Bill Clearfield  05:56
she's involved with all the intricacies of vitamin C. Yes, she's going to give us a brief glimpse, because we have a regular speaker, and then we're going to have her back for a regular one. We're actually booked all the way out till I got an opening July 8. I don't know if that one's good for you. Um,

Speaker 2  06:19
it probably would work, but I will announce it once we get started about our certification course, which is probably going to start somewhere mid July. I haven't finalized my calendar yet, so I didn't want your audience to miss out on it. So

Bill Clearfield  06:40
I'll talk to Doctor Quinn, because we have him on for the 27th of May, the end of May, and he likes to put, keep putting things off. So, so keep that in the back of your your your mind. Maybe we can. Okay,

Speaker 2  06:53
well, that will be, that'll be a day before my very special day before my birthday. Um, so I will be, in fact, you know what? Bill I am actually right now, not too far from you, I flew into northern Cal after this, I am going to Utah, then I'm flying back to Northern California, and then I'm going back to Florida. So it's kind of an intense month, but I can probably do july 27 uh, there's something going on july 27 on july 27 I mean, I'm sorry, may 27 Well,

Bill Clearfield  07:30
may 27 right at the moment. Uh, let's see.

Unknown Speaker  07:35
Check your calendar. We're good.

Bill Clearfield  07:37
May 27 I have Dr Quinn, but he likes to, he likes to put things. So here's probably any, probably get you in. No problem. Okay,

Speaker 2  07:49
that would work really well, because I can give your audience a little Your

Bill Clearfield  07:53
birthday is may 20 may 28 Yes, yes. Okay, Dame, is my daughter. So

Speaker 2  08:00
are you serious? Oh, my God, what a great I mean, it's a very special day. In fact, there's three of us that have a birthday on the same Did you see my fur child at the conference? My fur baby? Oh yeah, it was everywhere with me. Yeah, that I did. So, yep. So we're celebrating birthdays on the same day. So we're all in a great group of double trouble, double the fun. Okay, that

Bill Clearfield  08:28
I did see, and I had, I decided I had a great time there. I thought, I thought his group was just, you know, just they, they sort of a mirror image of of ours.

Speaker 2  08:41
Well, you know, I've known Frank for probably a couple of decades, and been working with them closely for so many years. He literally told me, I want my name on your product and tell them that I'm addicted to pure C. And once you go pure C, you never go back. And there's that says volume, obviously, but which support is bought some of the largest practices in United States and worldwide. And it's pretty exciting that once you've discovered the science, not just vitamin C, because we know vitamin C does something good, but actually the science of vitamin C, the precision in the application and how it can enhance clinical efficacy of so many different conditions and other synergy, synergistic therapies. It's pretty profound, and that's what it's all about. So I mean, I presented at his conference a couple of times, brought some other physicians that I work with that presented and and this year, Dr Schaumburg is going to be presenting at our conference, which I'm hopefully you will be attending as well. There's a lot to discover. Even among those that have been in the space for decades, you will be amazed how much you did not know that you did not know.

Bill Clearfield  10:02
We can ask Dr Nario. Dr Nario is taking Andrew, Andrew Wiles integrative medicine fellowship, and he brings us every week a tip of the week so that we don't have to go spend the money and the time to learn it. So we get it. We get it from him. So, okay, so it's

Speaker 2  10:23
a fast pass. How many people? How many people did you do? Registered for today's webinar?

Bill Clearfield  10:30
I don't, I don't, you know they a lot of them. Just they'll register and come on. We usually get anywhere from 40 to 70. And think two weeks ago, we had 100 we had over 100

Speaker 2  10:43
Okay, well, I know it was a very last minute edition, maybe for May 27 usually, we have an opportunity to share a little bit more and

Bill Clearfield  10:53
our speakers here. So let me rosemary. I ran into this young lady that's on the screen, Lior shear, she's going to give about a five to 10 minute intro onto her. She deals with vitamin C, and then I promise you, you'll get all the time you need. Okay. Oh, no problem. Sounds good. So it's a little bit after five so, Leor, why don't you get started? I know you know that folks are, will still be filtering in, okay, why don't you get started? And we've got about 10 minutes. And because I'm going to have to duck out about 515 because I have somebody coming here, I gotta give

Unknown Speaker  11:36
no worries.

Bill Clearfield  11:38
Dr, nariel will take this, take the ship.

Speaker 2  11:42
I'm actually traveling and Dr Clearfield and I just had an opportunity to meet last week at another amazing, amazing conference that I have been attending, supporting and speaking at for many years, and that's the American Academy of ozone therapy, run by Dr Frank Shallenberger. And what got introduced and Dr Clearfield was intrigued by what I do and and how I support integrative practices in the US and and globally. I am the founder and executive director of vitamin C Institute for Clinical Integration. We are a nonprofit organization and the only comprehensive educational platform that provides that provides no worries, that provides comprehensive education and training to integrate a physician, functional medicine, physician, regenerative medicine, dogs, surgical practice and anti aging practices, and it's all revolves around vitamin C therapy. And many providers believe, well, you know, I've been delving into vitamin C therapy, maybe for a decade, maybe for three decades. I kind of been there. Know that, and I will tell you that it's ubiquitously across the board, and I've been doing it for a very long time that the majority of providers, no matter how experienced they are in integrative and functional medicine, actually know very little about vitamin C in terms of precision applications, which is absolutely critical, especially when you're dealing with cancer. Now we don't only discover cancer. We delve into cancer in depth, but we also cover infectious diseases, regenerative medicine applications and surgical applications, biological dentistry, and pretty much every specialty that there is because vitamin C therapy is considered to be the foundation and the cornerstone of integrative medicine, and it affects every system, every organ in our body, and it can enhance clinical outcomes significantly if you understand the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of vitamin C and applying it with precision and individual, individualized therapies, versus just spitting out a formula. So that is where most, and I don't say it lightly, vast majority of clinicians, fail. And so it's been very insightful to see the progress. I've taken many, many practices, whether they were new to vitamin C, as or, as I said, highly experienced, or maybe they were crossing over from allopathic space, or even the hydration bars or IV bars into more clinical space to see how they were able to enhance clinical outcomes, improve patient satisfaction, and really understand the science behind it. So that's pretty much what we do at vci. Our website is vci.org It stands for vitamin C in Institute for Clinical Integration and how we go about it. Well, I teach two certification courses per year that are live webinars, that are group webinars. You don't have to travel anywhere. They're all live, but it is a 16 hour, comprehensive and very intense course. So what I'm going to share with you at the moment, I do not say it lightly. I have had many, many of our providers that have repeated this course many, many, many times. Why? Because it is not something that you learn or cover in medical schools, and it's not covered even in any kind of continued medical education typically. So there's a lot of misconceptions and misapplications of this very critical therapy. So as I said, it's a 16 hour course that is offered in four sessions, four hours each is always offered at 6pm Eastern, Standard Time, and we have practices that join it from all over the world, and I wanted to give you this opportunity to learn about it so you can plan accordingly. We have not announced the dates for the second certification course that I'll be teaching this year, which will likely take place in July or August, and I encourage every single one of you to subscribe to V, C, i, c, I newsletter. That is you. Step number one, to be in the know. Stay in the know, because whether it's clinical curls that we provide in our newsletters or the announcements, it goes to over 25,000 subscribers. So we really encourage you to subscribe to the newsletter. Stay in the know and in when the dates are announced which are going to be released, probably in the next couple of weeks, you then will be able to register for this course. Otherwise, I'm engaged constantly to teach two day private seminars. They're not as cost effective as to do it as a group webinar. But if you are interested again, reach out to us via VC, icici.org at support@vci.org and if you'd like to arrange a two day private seminar, they will coordinate with me, and we can go about it that way. In addition to the certification course that we offer, we have an annual conference, just like the conference the DR Clearfield and I attended at aIot. We do a similar conference once a year, typically, not always once a year, but typically once a year. And it's called seam closing with the sea, because we're all about vitamin C. So it is symposium. And if again, you go to our website@vci.org under symposium, click on that, and then click on 2025 you will see the dates and the venue. The dates are actually October, 24 25th in Clearwater Beach Florida, literally right on the white sandy beach of the number one beach town in the US, Clearwater Beach Florida. October, 24 25th so would love to see all of you there what we featuring this year. You already heard me state that Dr schallenberger is going to be talking about ozone and vitamin C. We're also going to be talking about integrative oncology, because in terms of efficacy, it comes as number one in integrative oncology. We will be covering Environmental Medicine, heavy metal toxicity, chelation therapy and vitamin C, thyroid disorders, bioidentical hormone therapy and vitamin C, procaine IV protein and neurotherapy and vitamin C, and, most importantly, regenerative medicine. This is really, really exciting, because past conferences, we shared how to implement these therapies in biological dentistry. This year, we have some great speakers that are in cosmetics and plastic surgeries. Are going to share with you how they're augmenting graft surgeries, whether it's fat graft grafting or bone grafting, in addition to implementation into combination with stem cell therapies and biologics and injectables in anti aging therapies. So again, great, great agenda. We haven't published it yet. We just opened the registration. Our discounted rooms are almost sold out. So I encourage you to go and register. If you are a VC ici member and you take advantage of the early bird registration, which is happening now, you will actually take advantage of $300 in discounts, so encouraging, once again, to register. So that's kind of an adjust what VCI does. And other than that, if you want to learn more and not get overwhelmed by tons of science when you take the certification course, read the book that I just published after 10 years, that I've been asked to do so it's on our website. It's called the C word book. It's again, on our menu. Look up the C word and everything, most of everything that is going to be covered in the certification course is in this book, which is the fundamental resource to every integrative and functional medicine practitioner. So there it is in a nutshell. If there's any questions quickly, I'll answer it now. Otherwise, hopefully I will see you again and on May 27 or another day that Dr Clearfield night coordinate.

Bill Clearfield  20:36
Okay, thank you. If you send me the send me the information, we'll put it on our flyers that we send out every week. Okay, absolutely. So anybody have any any comments or questions? Okay, well, thank you all right, thank

Unknown Speaker  20:51
you so much.

Bill Clearfield  20:52
Okay, thank you. Okay, so that was the warm up, and now the main event, correct? So rosemary, Mackenzie, has been along with us before, and we've asked her to come back, because I think we need a little bit more knowledge you know what it is that you do and how we go about it. Okay, so why don't you introduce yourself? Since I'm fumbling here and I can't find your bio.

Speaker 3  21:33
Oh, it's perfect, I'm happy to introduce myself. So I'm Rose McKenzie. My background is as a fertility awareness educator, so I trained or educated patients on how to understand their natural biomarkers to know their reproductive health. I previously worked at a restorative reproductive health office where we cared for women to truly manage their PCOS, endometriosis, infertility, recurrent miscarriages and other reproductive health problems, I have since began educating providers on how to do hormone tracking in their practices to better care for their patients. So I'm happy to speak today and really build from what we talked about last time, but also review for those who did not attend session one. So just some quick disclaimers. I am going to be speaking from an educational standpoint today. If you have questions directly about the product, please wait until the end. So really, where we want to start is the ability to track women's hormones really has changed. And so it used to be that women would have to tell us how long their cycles are, where they're regular, irregular. We might have been using hormone testing in snapshot in time, like infrequent serum blood testing. Or maybe patients were tracking their hormones indirectly with things like cervical mucus tracking or temperature tracking, or we collected samples, mailed them in and waited for the results to come back. There's been a significant change in the ability for us to track women's hormones now, because there's at home monitors at home, monitors are allowing us to have real time ongoing feedback about what is this woman's hormones being measured directly by a urine metabolite. So we'll be talking about why urine metabolites are a good option in a moment, but it again, is the huge shift here is from static one time or delayed results now in ongoing measurements. So historically, a patient might you might say, Well, what's your cycle length? And they pull open their app and they tell you, my cycles are, let's say, 30 days or 28 days. And if you ask if they're regular, their app might tell them that. But now you're actually able to see what the hormone patterns are doing, which can tell a completely different story, like this chart, example here you can see on the right, although this is a ends up being a normal 28 day long cycle, this patient is not having dynamic changes in her estrogen, which would be an abnormality. So again, we're moving from static now to dynamic. And so when we're looking at hormone patterns, we can look at the full cycle. We can map out the entire cycle, and not only one cycle, but cycle after cycle. And so in a normal cycle, what we're expecting to see is rising estrogen towards ovulation. So that's depicted here in the black line. So they come the urine metabolite of estrogen is E 3g so E 3g is the breakdown of serum estradiol or e2 so we're watching that estrogen level rise towards ovulation. Then we want to see a coordination between LH and FSH here, LH is depicted as the turquoise or teal looking color, and FSH is the gold color. So we want to see coordination between LH and FSH to trigger the ovary to release a ripe egg. Once the egg has been released, that ruptured follicle becomes the corpus luteum. The corpus luteum creates the high progesterone, so this nice big purple bell curve of progesterone. And so as you can imagine, going through a woman's cycle, a lot of things with these hormones could go wrong. There could be imbalance, there could be a lack of a hormone rise at the correct time. And so you're really able to see the most information when you have all of the hormones at once. And as I mentioned before, the cycles can change from cycle to cycle. So seeing more than just one cycle really gives you a much better picture for your patient. So let's give an example of a patient with PCOS, so they have long, irregular cycles, and they say to my last cycle was 45 days. And you start interventions with them, and you want to know, am I moving towards better health with them? Am I, you know, hitting my targets here previously, you might be waiting for their next period to come, and you wait 45 days now you can actually see the hormone pattern itself changing and improving much faster than just waiting for that next period to come. And see is it better than 45 days when you're doing ongoing hormone tracking, you also can help tailor your patient's treatment. That could be things like if you're doing seed cycling, or you're having them take progesterone after ovulation to do supportive luteal phase support, or maybe you've asked the patient to do certain blood work at a certain time in the cycle. Like mid luteal is a common time that we see blood work being done, so seven days after ovulation, and that mid luteal is, it truly is mid luteal. And what I mean by that is asking a patient to get their blood work on cycle day 1819, or 20 or 21 is not always mid luteal for that patient. If the patient ovulates on day 20 and they get their blood work on day 21 that is not mid luteal for them, so it's much more accurate, and you'll get more usable information if you do your mid luteal test specific to when the patient ovulates, which would be seven days after ovulation, you also can time anything else within the cycle. So later on, I'll be giving some examples of CGM data and hormone data at the same time. And so if you have a patient who is doing a certain diet in their follicular versus their luteal phase, patients are actually able to comply with that intervention. If that's what you've asked them to do. We also find that patients are much more engaged when they can see the data. So think about a CGM a patient who can see their CGM data, if they can see their hormone data, it's the same idea. They're motivated by the data. They can see that, you know, like the hard work that they're putting in is paying off, their hormones are improving. They can also be motivated sometimes when the data is not so good, so they can see, you know, there's more I need to do. We find that patients are more compliant with treatment and follow up appointments when they have access to their own data. So being able to monitor hormones remotely is really changing how providers care for their patients. There's many universities who are currently using this sort of technology in their research studies. Here's just a handful of them, but we're seeing research being done using urine metabolites because it's allowing the researchers to have control or have that variable be within their research controlled, because they now know what phase of the cycle the woman is in. So we see that being done for athletes. Research on muscle strength and conditioning. We see it being done for certain diets, and whether you're intermittent fasting. We're also seeing research around mental health, so suicide, like ideations and different parts of the cycle, also related to treatment. We're also seeing research around menstrual cramps, PMS, endometriosis, and so it's super exciting to see that researchers are using this data to really push forward women's health and to close the gender gap in research. So urine metabolites started being looked at by researchers many years ago, but this is a published study from 2015 and they were looking to see, can we use urine metabolites not instead of serum, but can it be used, for example, in research? So being very clear here, urine metabolites are not meant to replace serum altogether, but compliments, because most patients do not want to get their serum blood drawn every day or even every other day for an entire cycle, let alone cycle after cycle. So urine metabolites were really being looked at and desired for this ongoing type of monitoring. And you can see from this research that the bottom left is progesterone patterns, the top right is LH and the bottom right is estrogen. And they were able to find that the serum levels and urine metabolites did have excellent agreement, and they could be used interchangeably. A quick note, there is a delay in the urine metabolites off of the serum levels, and that makes sense, because the urine metabolites come from a breakdown of those serum levels. And so if you're ever having a patient do serum levels and a urine metabolite, you would never want to try to compare them on the same day. So getting urine metabolite in the morning and then a serum drawn in the morning, they should not match each other, because they're a slight delay from each other. So urine metabolites, again, are an ideal situation for this ongoing type of monitoring, and then you can do your spot checking of serum as needed.

Speaker 3  31:02
There is additional research that has been done that is more recent. So this research study study you can look up and view in more detail, but this is looking at the urine metabolites of E 3g the urine metabolite of PDG, a breakdown of progesterone and then LH. Again, this is serum two urine metabolites, so all the way to the left is LH, the center is e2 compared to E 3g, and then progesterone compared to PDG. And again, this research found that both the serum and the urine metabolites found and pinpointed the 24 hour interval of ovulation, and could find the transition from a follicular phase into a luteal phase. So again, just more supportive data. That's saying that urine metabolites are a great way to track women's hormones. Another study should be published very soon in the this month or next month, out of the University of British Columbia, with Dr Thomas Burchard, this study is, as I said, almost finished, but he has already said that the results are very promising. This is looking at urine metabolites, serum and transvaginal ultrasounds. So the transvaginal ultrasounds are actually pinpointing when ovulation happens in relationship to those hormone patterns. So it's going to be able to even more accurately predict when someone will ovulate, and then be able to confirm it with the PDG values being ultrasound validated. So as he said, as a researcher, this is really creating the golden standard for quantitative hormone monitoring throughout a menstrual cycle. So what are some clinical situations when you might want to use hormone monitoring? So the three most common use cases are infertility care or fertility care, perimenopause of hormone imbalances. So if we think about fertility care, hormone monitoring, of course, can identify ovulation, see if the woman is ovulating or not, the health of those hormones. And then there's many clinical situations where it's very warranted. If you have a patient with hormonal imbalances, or maybe they currently are in amenorrhea, then it can be very useful. In perimenopause, we know that the hormones can be very fluctuating and changing. And so again, identifying ovulatory versus an ovulatory cycle. Is there hormone excess or hormone deficiency? Are there symptoms that seem to be cyclical or hormone related? And then some providers will use hormone tracking during interventions such as HRT for hormone imbalances. I think this one's probably a no brainer, if we suspect or know there's a hormone imbalance, and it's very helpful to see what that hormone pattern is actually doing. And the use case, the final use case, is fertility awareness tracking. So again, that's my background. This technology has been used for many years by fertility awareness educators helping their patient to either avoid a pregnancy, achieve a pregnancy, improve their health by continuing to help them track their cycles through irregular cycles, postpartum or potentially a medically complicated situation. So many patients, we're seeing a huge trend where patients are wanting to know what their hormones are doing, whether that's be that they are trying to improve their hormones or their perimenopausal but we are seeing a change or a shift, where many patients are rejecting traditional birth control and are wanting to track their hormones For health reasons or things like avoiding a pregnancy. So we're going to go through each of these different use cases one at a time. So we're going to start with the fertility care, or potentially infertility care. We'll look at some specific things you can use it for, and then chart examples. You will have access both to this video later, but also the slide deck. So for example, if you wanted to click on and watch this video with Dr Carrie Jones, you will have access to that later. So for fertility care, the most basic thing that hormone tracking can do is identify the fertile window. And you might be thinking, I thought the main purpose was identifying ovulation. That is important. But for those actually trying to conceive, you also need to know when the fertile window is opening, so I can time intercourse correctly. We also can be checking to see is there underlying hormone dysfunction, and I will show you many examples of that. Patients who are moving towards trying to optimize their hormones, they can see if the interventions they're doing are helping or hurting the hormone patterns, and then it can be again, used for any cycle based timing thing. So getting labs done three days into their cycle, or seven days after ovulation, things like that. So the first example we have here is a 40 female who's been trying to conceive for one year, and she begins tracking her hormones. And you can see along the bottom is when her period begins. So August 27 is cycle. Day one, she begins testing consistently when her period ends on cycle. Day Five, as a refresher, black lines are E, 3g, or estrogen. Turquoise or Teal is the LH surge, gold is FSH, and purple is progesterone or PDG, and so quite quickly we can see some abnormalities with this hormone pattern. So there's two that stand out to me, but let's first just lay down some basic parameters in this cycle. So we can see when her cycle began, we can see when her cycle ends. So she had a 32 day cycle that would be considered a normal time frame. She had her trigger to ovulate with LH and FSH together on cycle day 18 into 19. That would be a normal time frame for someone to ovulate. So so far, some of her metrics, if she was not tracking her hormones, would have appeared correct, maybe if she was using LH test strips, something like that. But when we actually start looking at the hormone patterns, she has two problems. First, she does not have the appropriate rise of estrogen towards ovulation. So there is no dynamic changes of estrogen leading to ovulation. So there's lack of follicular development, lack of estrogen changes. Then once her trigger happens, that it's in the trigger to ovulate, we should get a corpus luteum formation with big, robust progesterone levels. This patient does have progesterone levels, but they are very small. These are minimal progesterone changes, and so this patient did ovulate, but this would point us to a sub optimal ovulation pattern. There's a lot of areas that should be improved here. Now, in this patient scenario, she's trying to conceive. She's been trying to conceive for one year. If this patient had not gotten maybe any assistance in the last year, and she was just told, go ahead and try to conceive for one year. You can see why it would be fairly frustrating to have imbalanced hormones for an entire year and not get any help with this. So a patient that can see their data, they can see that there is an abnormality, they can seek assistance a lot faster than just trying to conceive with time intercourse for 12 months, which is currently in western medicine, the approach you know that your patients are told, just try to conceive for 12 months. So a patient that has this sort of testing again, can seek out care and potentially get help a lot faster. This patient should not continue to try to conceive just cycle after cycle, with hormone patterns looking like this. There really needs to be some fundamental improvement in her hormones if she would like to conceive. The next patient, similar ish situation. She's around the same age, 39 she has secondary infertility, so she has conceived successfully once, but now she can't conceive again. After four years, she also has a normal 28 day cycle. She ovulates on cycle day 20, which again, generally would be considered normal, but that math does not add up. Someone should not obviously end day 20 and then be bleeding again by day 28 so she has a short luteal phase. But what's interesting here is her progesterone levels actually look fine. And so sometimes I think as clinicians, we think, well, their progesterone will be low, and then that's the problem, or if they have a short luteal phase, or progesterone will be too low, and it's not always. You can have a normal length luteal phase with low progesterone like the last patient, or you can have a short luteal phase and normal looking progesterone. And so in this scenario, it is very helpful for us to know that this patient ovulates kind of late in the cycle, because it indicates that her luteal phase is much too short, since a normal is 11 to 16 days, with implantation typically happening around seven to 10 days, this patient is not having a long enough time frame for the maturing of the uterine lining, for implantation to happen before she's already sloughing Her lining again. So again, just to summarize, two different patients, but both cannot see conceivable. They have different problems, but ultimately both are showing sub optimal ovulations.

Speaker 3  40:35
This is another patient example of a short luteal phase, but this one is combined with not great estrogen patterns that are more elevated. So they're not just really low levels. They she has potentially sufficient estrogen, but it's not coordinated. And what I mean by that is there should be a nice rise of estrogen. It declines and has a second rise. Her levels are, overall, just kind of medium, middle of the road and again, not dynamic. So we're always looking for coordinated hormones that are balanced and they're fluctuating when they're supposed to. So another not ideal hormone pattern. So to finish up the fertility section here, we know that people trying to conceive have many challenges along the way. If they were using traditional like LH test strips, we know that that does not give the entire picture, especially if they have underlying hormone abnormalities, which many women struggling to conceive do. Many patients are spending a lot of time and money on fertility treatments and so, and we know the infertility rates are going up. And so this is a pilot that was done with a clinic that all the participants in this study qualified to be candidates for IVF per their OB, GYN, so they had been trying to conceive for over one year with target intercourse. In this pilot, there was 36 participants with a median age of 34 they had various diagnoses. You can see PCOS, premature ovarian failure, endometriosis, hypothalamic amenorrhea, many problems. The participants began the study seeing this specialized clinic where they did full history, they prescribed medications if needed, and did labs, and then they did the ongoing hormone monitoring during their intervention. At the end of two months, 44 participants were able to conceive so working with a provider in this remote monitoring, more of a restorative approach, 44 participants were able to conceive. And if you compare that to you know the general rates for conception with those with PCOS hovers around 25% so you can see those with PCs had a higher conception rate. Success of IUI is hovers around 20% and IVF is about 47% so after two cycles, this clinic and their pilot were able to get nearly comparable conception rates with their protocol compared to IVF. They also found that 100% of their participants were engaged and compliant. 82% that they claimed that they were engaged knowing that their provider was looking at the data, and 62 continued to book their follow ups. And then at the end, 72% of people were able to be diagnosed more accurately. And again, the big showstopper is that 44% that were able to conceive. So these are just some of the examples of those that were able to conceive, these are ones that took longer than the two months. So the patient on the left came to the clinic with hypothalamic amenorrhea. So she began monitoring in May of 2023 and you can see, initially, from her data, immediate problems, she is nearly flat lining. And then over the course of months with that provider in that group, they were able to get her to ovulate. And this is her cycle that she conceived on. They did in that cycle use ovulation induction and an HCG trigger after they had done fundamental work to get her to ovulate again. Patient on the right same idea, she came with diminished ovarian reserve, complicated by obesity, luteal phase defect, hypothyroidism. Although the patient wasn't consistently testing, we can still tell that there was problems. Here. She's on cycle 844, and I don't see evidence of ovulation yet, because the purple lines progesterone have not risen. And so this patient is not an ideal pattern. So over the course of months with this provider, from June to November, they did Metabolic Nutrition, trulicity, clovid induction cycle. In this cycle, they used and the induction HCG and progesterone. And just a quick note, this is a pretty classic Clomid chart, if you're ever working with a client who is doing ovulation inductions. I like to say that a Clomid chart I can see from a mile away, whereas letrozole is much harder. I would not know someone's taking letrozole unless they tell me, and that's based on how those medications work differently, and I'll talk about that in a moment. This is another example of medicated cycles in that pilot. So this is patient number three. She came diagnosed with PCs. So her initial data. You can see here, she is having an ovulatory cycle. But these are not ideal values. She has, again, minimal e 3g, changes. She did get an LH surge with progesterone changes. So this is September over the course of six, more than six months working with her. This is her conception cycle, where they use letrozole and HCG trigger. And last this is an example of a luteal phase insufficiency. So her before treatment, you can see that the time from ovulation till her next bleed was only eight days. And remember, as I talked about before, we really want that to be 11 to 16 is considered normal. So the work that they did with this patient was supplementing progesterone after ovulation, and this patient, from April to August, was able to conceive. So just a quick note on ovulation induction medications. If someone is on clomid, because Clomid blocks the estrogen receptors in the brain, the amount of circulating estrogen is not decreased, it's actually increased. And so the values and the serum will be increasing, and so will the values on a hormone monitor would be continuing to rise and rise, versus how letrozole works. Letrozole actually blocks the estrogen synthesis, and so the estrogen levels actually lower. And so will the monitoring. And then once the letrozole is stopped, then we get that rebounding effect of that estrogen rising. So as I said before, a letrozole chart, you can't really tell unless the patient says they're on it, whereas Clomid, you definitely can see the evidence of that significantly higher estrogen or E, 3g so the final slide on fertility, if you're kind of wondering, like, when do you incorporate hormone tracking. Typically, this is done even before the patient sees you if they are trying to conceive, because it can help them to time intercourse around the correct days. And then when they see you for their first appointment, you will already have data that you can look at so you can establish baselines. It can help you direct what sort of diagnostics you might want to use, or direction you want to go. It's very useful for anyone who's trying to conceive who also has a hormone abnormality, history of recurrent miscarriages, or they have a short luteal phase, or if it's during ovulation induction, the recording just stopped. Does anyone need to turn that back on. Maybe. Dr narrow,

Speaker 4  48:04
yeah, I'm gonna get on to it, but go ahead.

Speaker 3  48:08
Okay, okay, so we're gonna move from fertility management now over to hormone imbalances and metabolic health. So in the metabolic health section. If we think about a patient, who they're, you're, they come to and they say, Well, I was bleeding, and then two weeks later I bled again. And you're like, Hmm, I wonder, did they have an ambulatory cycle, or is this breakthrough bleeding? We're kind of unsure what this is. With this sort of data, you can really make sense of a patient with a short cycle. Does not mean they did not ovulate. It does not mean it's an ovulatory This is an example where the patient had an abnormally early LH surge, and it's coordinated with rising estrogen. So you see this rising estrogen level. It declines appropriately, and the LH surge happened on cycle day five. So although that is hormone abnormality, this is an ovulatory cycle, and so you can confirm, or at least reassure the patient with one thing, yes, you did just ovulate. Now we have to figure out why there's that misfiring between the Pituitary and the brain with the ovary. Why are they not having the correct interaction with each other, ovulate at a normal time frame. So we'll go into a case study here about a patient with PCOS who is trying to conceive. She has irregular cycles. You know, that's a pretty common kind of patient background. She reports her cycles varying from 31 days to 52 days. At one point they got a little bit more regular, but then they became irregular again. And this is not new to her. She was diagnosed with PCOS at age 18. She's now 26 and wanting to conceive. So this is her initial hormone monitoring chart. You can see again, just give some basic outline. Her period began on February 28 her next cycle happened on March 30. So her cycle was 31 days long. She had her trigger to ovulate here on cycle day 1819 with this sort of pattern, we do suspect that she ovulated on day potential 18 or 19, and then her progesterone goes up, confirming ovulation. But she has one, I call it warning sign that something's not right. And it may be, I would say, without this type of monitoring, it would be very hard to identify this patient has abnormally high estrogen levels in her luteal phase. Although she stopped testing on cycle day 25 we can already see that her estrogen was the highest after ovulation. It then declined, but then it was right back up, and the levels were higher than her build up towards ovulation, her follicular face. So typically, we want to see a nice rising pattern towards ovulation, the highest estrogen. It declines in a small bunny hill of estrogen. This patient actually has a little bit lower of estrogen here, and even higher estrogen here. So this is considered kind of like a reverse estrogen pattern. So this can be a warning sign that things are not going well, and in this case, unfortunately, things got worse. So this patient with PCOS went from having a 31 day cycle with ovulation around day 19, now into a longer cycle at 40 days long. But this time she had a distinct event that happened within this cycle. She had a non ovulatory LH surge. And what is that? That means her body tried to ovulate, it failed, and then it had to try again. So this is kind of like a stutter step with ovulation, again, not ideal, but with this sort of data, there's a ton of clarity for this patient, whether she's trying to conceive or she's just trying to manage her hormones, she had what looked like a good ovulatory event. She had rising estrogen, an LH surge, but then her progesterone did not go up, indicating she ovulated. So thankfully, she kept testing, we see a second rise of estrogen, a second LH surge with this time actually triggered ovulation, and we know that because her progesterone levels rose afterwards. So this patient truly ovulated around day 29 or 30. If this patient was, let's say, getting blood work done or a more comprehensive mid luteal test, if she would have gotten it done around cycle, age 23 the test would have come back like inconclusive. Serum progesterone would have said she didn't ovulate. The estrogen wouldn't have told us a lot. But if you do that blood test seven days after true ovulation, so around cycle, day 36 that blood work would have been much more usable information, or maybe you're doing again, a more comprehensive test, looking at estrogen pathways, or looking at her adrenals and her cortisol and a lot of other things, that data would have been much more useful. This next patient is a good scenario of showing why we want longitudinal data. So this patient's 38 she was trying to avoid a pregnancy and now switching to try to conceive. She had had one successful pregnancy. Her baby was born in December of 2021, her BMI is a little bit on the higher end. So the patient was complaining a little bit about her higher weight, her background, she said she was breastfeeding her toddler, and then she had had a return to cycles. So she was breastfeeding, but had had multiple cycles 10 at the point that I'm about to show you. But her complaints were that she was now having red streaks in her mucus pattern around ovulation. And she said, I'm concerned about my relatively low estrogen or E 3g levels. And so to give some background here, this is what her cycles were looking like. So she was again postpartum at this point, but was ovulating. So she had a 27 day cycle, ovulation around day 16, estrogen changes, changes in progesterone. You know, we could get a little bit picky here and say that they're not ideal, but she is ovulating now. This is where she came to get help. This is the change that she saw. So this shows how drastic her hormones had changed, and it really showcases how this patient was able to advocate for herself and potentially change things before she actively tried to conceive. She was able to identify two problems, again, red streaking with ovulation in her mucus and her e 3g levels had significantly changed. And of course, I can theorize, we'll never know, but if she had tried to conceive on cycles like this before improving them, she potentially would have put herself at higher risk for miscarriages or complications because her hormone levels were not ideal at this point, some providers have, you know, shared with me that this is very helpful to see, because then they get to figure out, you know, it's kind of like solving the mystery. Well, what changed for this patient? So you asked pointed questions. You know, she had said she was trying she was a higher weight than what she wanted. So did she start severely calorie restricting or over exercising? Did she cut out certain things in her diet, like taking fat out of her diet, or grains, or what did she do that may have caused this change? Or is it something you know, not in her control? Maybe she has nutrient deficiencies because she's postpartum and she's breastfeeding, so really figuring out what had changed for this patient and how we can reverse that and improve her hormone values can be very helpful. So I see a question in the chat, and I just want to make sure I answer it. How do you get the maps? So these maps are graphed out hormone values coming from urine metabolites. So patients are collecting a first morning urine sample, they are then dipping a dipstick into that urine and putting it into a monitor, which then reads out the values. So this is not temperature, this is not saliva, this is not heart rate monitoring or CGM, this is all urine metabolites collected from first morning urine. So hopefully that answered your question. Okay, so now we're gonna move from the hormone imbalances to the specific to metabolic health. And so this first study that I wanna share, this is a study that the researchers were the goal for them was to really find, does women's glucose levels change in different phases of the cycle? And prior to their research, some of some studies were inconclusive. And they really pointed to it was inconclusive because they had, they had limited information about the women's cycles. So they were using patients recollection of their cycle. How long are they? How regular are they? You know, what are your cycle lengths? And they also were doing infrequent blood tests with usually serum blood draws. And so the researchers here were using an at home monitor to track hormone levels. They were using a Fitbit for heart rate and steps, and I believe something else, and then a CGM to track the actual glucose value. So in the 49 participants, they were able to find a significant association between glucose levels related to the phase of the menstrual cycle. And again, this really was

Speaker 3  58:01
confirming what other research studies had thought to be true, but there was inconclusive data. So this really had a good data set looking at hormone patterns throughout the cycle along with glucose data at the same time. So look up the study, you can learn a lot from it. But just a quick little tour. Here they show the cycle in like progression throughout the cycle, so like 20% through the cycle, 40, 6080, 100 and you can see the glucose levels are in blue. And so the glucose levels are the lowest in the follicular phase, and then they're the highest in the luteal phase. And so I want to show you some chart examples when you apply this to patient information. So during the follicular phase, there's the highest values of estrogen. That's the dominant time that estrogen is the most pronounced. So high estrogen levels increase insulin sensitivity. So it women's bodies require less insulin to regulate their glucose levels. So at this time, women's fluctuations in their glucose level are also minimal. So this chart is zoomed in on someone's CGM data during the follicular phase, and you can see that she was within the target range most of the time her fluctuations are happening, but within the range. So this is showing again, that improved insulin sensitivity due to the higher estrogen levels in the follicular phase. Then we move into the luteal phase. So the luteal phase is the time where progesterone is the dominant hormone. We switch over from estrogen dominant now to progesterone dominant, and increasing progesterone lowers insulin sensitivity. And so now, women are more at risk for glucose fluctuations. They're more prone to things like intense cravings and mood swings, and all of this kind of makes sense if you think about progesterone role like high progesterone in pregnancy creates a decreasing insulin insulin sensitivity to allow the woman to grow a baby, and so it's meant to that's what progesterone is meant to do. But within a woman's cycle, it's very helpful if they know this information, because they can take different actions to prevent so much glucose fluctuation. So this is that same patient now, in her luteal phase, her CGM data, and you can see the wild up and down ride of that glucose level, she is out of range much more often. So outside of the target range, there's heightened sensitivity to those blood sugar drops, and again, more frequency amplitudes, and even higher, or, sorry, more frequency of the rises and higher amplitudes. And so this data is very useful as a clinician, but also for the patient themselves, because it can allow them to change their lifestyle, their diet, their exercise, based on what phase of the cycle they're in. So some programs already do this, like the program with Alicia Beatty of in the flow her program teaching women to live within their menstrual cycle. And so we've kind of known some of this information before, but we're really taking it to another level, because we're incorporating multiple data points So women now can track their CGM, their heart rates, their sleeping pattern, their hormone data, and they really can use this information to make actionable changes in their life so that they Feel better throughout the different phases of their cycle. This is one more example of that same idea. This is just a different tool. So this is the hormone data, along with a program through aspect health, which is a platform for PCOS management. And so patients with PCOS are using this, and they're seeing their scores. And so the scores here on the left are for the follicular phase, and then on the right, we're in luteal, and then we move to menstrual. So this kind of starts in a follicular again, we move to luteal, then to menstrual. So I know it's not the order we typically see, but the same idea here, we can see that the woman is scoring the worst right after ovulation in her luteal phase, her average score is worse in that luteal phase. Really just again, saying the same thing I just showed, but just a different way to show it.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:38
Okay.

Speaker 3  1:02:40
Questions so far about what I've shared, I'm going to switch over to perimenopause here in a moment.

Speaker 3  1:02:52
Okay, let's talk about perimenopause care. So there's a lot of information out there about perimenopause care. I know we're seeing a lot more trainings about this research happening women demanding better care in perimenopause. And hormone testing can be a part of that, because sometimes we assume that the woman is or is not ovulating, that we kind of know what's happening, and sometimes the data really proves us wrong. And so in perimenopause, testing can be very helpful to see, are we still in an ovulatory pattern, or is it sometimes ovulatory, sometimes an oblatory? Is there hormone deficiencies or access? Did this patient have a hysterectomy but still has ovaries? So you know, are they still having hormone fluctuations? We don't always know. So it's helpful to get testing going. Same with uterine ablation, same idea, and it can really help make sense of some of the uterine abnormal uterine bleeding. So there's a lot of additional resources that have been created around this. So if you are someone who typically care for permenopausal patients, I would highly encourage you to scan this QR code to get these three additional resources, indications for testing the natural decline of progesterone and the perimenopausal transition, and then the relationship between estradiol and FSH. So again, if you care for perimenopausal patients, I would highly encourage you to scan this QR code again. It'll be available in the slide deck later. So I'm going to share some of the indications for testing. Hormone testing and perimenopause is not a blanket like it's just for everybody. It's in certain situations. And so the first category is hormone patterns. So assessing hormone patterns, I can't say it enough that the patterns and perimenopause are widely different. We can lose coordination. There can be really high estrogen in the same cycle. It plummets down and be very low. So understanding what the hormone pattern is can be very useful. We can hormone tracking. Can also identify things like short luteal phases, low progesterone. We know that there's again, that natural decline of progesterone as women age, and not only knowing if the progesterone is low, but sometimes the actual pattern of progesterone, it's almost like it rises and then it can't sustain itself, and it drops very abruptly, and that, for some patients, can cause symptoms. Then we move into addressing ovarian function. So by tracking the FSH, you can see kind of that ovarian function, or how hard the body is trying to keep ovulation going. You can monitor those FSH levels over cycle after cycle. It provides you a lot more information than just a single blood test or even two FSH levels six weeks apart from each other, because and I'll show some chart examples in a moment, you can have a cycle, one cycle that's completely dysfunction, and the FSH might be elevated, and then the patient can go on to potentially have better FSH levels in the next cycle. And so depending on when you do that blood work, it does not always tell you the complete picture of what's happening. And we know, for example, that we can improve FSH levels over time for someone who's maybe in premature ovarian failure, you can actually help lower those FSH levels through estrogen therapies. And so again, FSH is dynamic. Just like all the other hormones, it's not a linear just increasing, increasing, increasing over time. That's not how FSH tends to work. So finally, with treatment and intervention support. So this can really equip providers to support your clinical suspicion that HRT would be very helpful. It can if you are a clinician that does a timed HRT, or I like to call it cooperative HRT, so you're giving progesterone in the luteal phase, for example, or you're doing different amounts of estrogen based on what phase of the cycle they're in. So some providers use physiologic HR team, so you can help time that correctly. Depending on what type of HRT you use, you still can track the patient's endogenous levels. So for example, if a patient is using an estradiol patch, you can see a slight change in the hormone data with the patch, but if their own body is producing wildly high, fluctuating estrogen, you would still see that. And so that can be very helpful for a patient who maybe they were previously stable on the treatment that you gave them, and now they don't seem to be responding as well, or it's worsening. You know, this could be six months down the road or a year down the road, and you want to kind of peak and see, well, what has the hormone levels been up to have they changed drastically. Some patients who are in their early perimenopausal transition, they may not be ready for pharmaceuticals, and they would like to do lifestyle modifications, diet supplements, herbs, sleeping patterns, any intervention that you do, you can be monitoring the hormones to see, am I making improvements or are they still worsening? You know, is this woman in hormone balance or not? So here's some of those examples where, as I said before, they can have these wildly fluctuating estrogen patterns. So this is a patient. She's 49 and you can see here we pick up her chart on cycle. Day 11. We go all the way to cycle day 46 at the end of the chart, she's still in an ovulatory pattern. There's high, fluctuating estrogen, but it's not coordinated with anything. So there is no LH surge, there is no progesterone changes. So some providers might term this unopposed estrogen. She currently is in a unopposed estrogen state. So if you had done maybe a spot check on this patient, she was new to, and you want to know what are hormones doing? Some providers might do serum if you would have done a serum level in these first two weeks of her cycle, her estrogen may have looked quote, unquote fine, within normal range. But then you see if you would have done that blood work anywhere in the next three weeks, her estrogen levels would have been off the charts high. And so many clinicians will tell me that this is the best way to do any sort of cycle mapping if the patient wants to see what their hormones are doing. And again, that doesn't mean it's for every patient, but I will tell you that many patients are validated when they see what their hormones are doing. They understand why. You know, it's not just a fading out of a menstrual cycle, and their hormones are just all declining and they'll eventually stop. That's not usually what happens many times the ovary gives a valiant effort trying to keep up before it lowers. We also can see patients who have kind of still regular hormones are coordinated. So this is a 52 female. She reports regular cycles. Her hormones are still fluctuating the kind of the right pattern. But her problem here is really low progesterone levels. And that makes sense. Her egg quality is low, her ability to form a corpus luteum is poor, and so her corpus luteum is not keeping up without progesterone production that she used to have. And so this might be a patient that certain providers would decide, well, I'm going to start her with progesterone therapy timed in her luteal phase, since that is her current problem, some other providers might say, I'm just going to put her on progesterone every day. And that's not necessarily wrong, but in this patient case, if you put her on progesterone, she every day, she may actually go on to stop having coordination when currently she still has it. So again, this information is just to help give you another data point to decide how you want to approach this patient and seeing if the interventions you do support her hormone pattern, or if they disrupt it, or if they increase her levels like you want, or decrease it like you want. So this is another similar situation. She's 50. She is still having coordinated hormone patterns. Her cycles are getting short. They're at 24 days here, but she is still having estrogen changes coordinated with an LH surge, and then her progesterone changes, indicating oblatory. Again, she could be a candidate that would respond very well to a cooperative timed progesterone support. Some providers will do estrogen therapy at the same time, and then they can see, when I do these interventions, do I keep the coordination going, or have I stopped it all together? And depending on the patient's situation, age, all of those things, you might be fine with them stopping the coordination, but we tend to see that the longer you can keep hormones coordinated, the better. So that is all the educational slides I have for you. I would be happy to stay on and answer questions. And for those who want to stay on afterwards, I can answer specifics to the product if you'd like.

Speaker 4  1:12:18
Well, thank you, Rose, that was awesome. And again, I'm sure everybody's jaw dropped. So when we had roasted the first time around, Everybody was scratching their head on what this test is. But this is really amazing. And why I say that is because when I was in the recent a forum conference, urinary testing was something that was out there, though I didn't see your company there, but it's really there's there are newer studies that are coming out, especially with the with everybody knows about this company, that they launch a study about urinary metabolites getting affected by dim, on how it's actually changing the metabolism of estrogen, and they're start trying to get more literature out there to substantiate the the fact that urinary testing really has a place in women's health. And it seems like this is a tool that you really are. I'm sure you're expanding on this, improving on it, every day as we as we speak. So that's why, because before you kind of presented. I only got the thought of fertility, but now you're actually expanding to monitoring therapies, inserting it where it should be. Is that correct? Now you're kind of getting more into the different views

Speaker 3  1:13:33
of this. It's really been defined, and it's super exciting, because the research is happening and more pilots are happening. And so the slide that was showing about aspect health, for example, that was a pilot that they did with 10 participants, and they're publishing their case study on that. And so it's super exciting to see how, again, hormone tracking really is going to change the landscape of women's health. And it's not meant, you know, just for a blanket statement, everybody, but inserted in the right places, it really can make a drastic difference,

Speaker 4  1:14:07
right? And as as you can have you alluded a while ago, you were comparing the accuracy of urinary metabolites versus serum. So that's one of the bigger controversies for our practitioners here, that where should I do this? When should I do it? Should I rely on this in relation to specific parameters? One of the conundrums that I encounter most of the time is really how, for example, I use my serums to actually tell me if I'm having enough estrogen to be bone protective, enough for bone protection. So one of the things that I can probably ask you about is, is that something that you've been seeing in urine metabolites and how it can correlate, for example, for certain function of estrogen, like bone protection, for example,

Speaker 3  1:14:52
yeah. So most, most of the time we say, the literature currently says, you know, serum equals this equals bone health, so still do that test. But if you want to know, for example, that your patient that you're giving her, let's say that estrogen, and then you've given her the estrogen therapy, and it was going great, and now it's six months down the road, and she's like, I don't know, Dr neuro, I'm just not feeling well, and you have her SAR hormone testing, and you find that chart with that really high estrogen, you're like, Okay, now what am I going to do? Because I protected her bones, but now her own estrogen is going rampant, and that's why she's not potentially one reason why she's not feeling well. And so I I will say that the test that you're currently doing to check bone health, if that's your current process that I would keep doing. So this really complements well what you're already doing. And I, like most providers, will say one, it challenges what I previously thought, because they'll get data back that they weren't expecting. But also it helps to paint the picture, because before, you only have these little snapshots in time, and you weren't sure what was happening on an ongoing basis. So that's where it really fits in, in perimenopause, and there's a flow chart. So if you're a clinician wondering, like, Where can I fit this in? There's a flow chart on where you scan that QR code to get the perimenopause resources. There's a flow chart that can walk you through. You know, if you're trying to decide, should I test? Shouldn't I test? What am I looking for? If I'm testing that sort of thing?

Speaker 4  1:16:28
And you're right. As you mentioned, the current test outside in the market is just doing a one day test. So the beauty of your, I guess, the product that you're talking about, you're doing multiple testing, so you can really follow the specific trend that you're looking for. And that's why this is something that is, I haven't seen, I guess, a product that's similar to such. So that's why there's a media time and place for it, and how the intricacies of the specific metabolites that you're talking about gives you information that is not being given by the other company. So but, and I did hear last time that were you going to do a tie up or you're going to work together? Is that correct? Or I was just hearing things?

Speaker 3  1:17:09
Oh yes. So do you want maybe to stop the recording and then I can answer some of the questions in the chat too? Oh,

Speaker 4  1:17:18
sure, okay, but let's make sure that's uh, maybe let's let the audience ask some something, some neutral questions, if they have some So, and then we'll turn off the recording. But here, here's what, here's a neutral one from the the email questions. So when we're using GOP ones, one of the bigger concerns would be, Hey, should I use a contraceptive, right? Because I'm worried about getting pregnant. Is this something that can be integrated with somebody who's doing GLP ones? Of course, it's a very hot item for weight loss protocols now. So how do you have any experience with that? Yeah,

Speaker 3  1:17:55
I would say, as a clinician, you have to be very careful with saying something can be used as a contraceptive, right? Because you don't want to get sued if they get pregnant afterwards. So hormone testing is a tool that can be used to successfully avoid a pregnancy, but it would be under the guidance of like a fertility awareness educator, like the background that I have, so if that person was able to guide that patient, it would be a great option for them, because we know adding in a hormonal contraceptive is going to disrupt their natural hormones. So while you're fixing one thing, you might be disrupting another with that hormonal contraceptive. So if you have a situation where you can partner with fertility awareness educators such as, you know, there's organizations out there, like Maven, who incorporates fertility awareness educators right into their programs. So if you that either have a connection with a group like that, or you can find a group. There's many platforms like I'm trying to think of an example right now, off the top of my head, there's organizations that have like directories of fertility awareness educators that you can just send your patient to them to get educated by them to use a product like this.

Speaker 4  1:19:13
So there, there is a place for this, for GOP, when users basically, yeah, I guess you're right. You need to cover all your bases. Somebody gets pregnant, you're in trouble, right? So, and I even have, I just saw a perimenopause of female and of course, one of their worries, and she's still on contraception, of course, she's thinking that she'll be pregnant because she's still having menstruation. And then I think this is something that you can definitely integrate in that specific case, correct?

Speaker 3  1:19:40
Yes, yes. So it's, as I mentioned earlier, many patients are moving towards natural contraceptives, and hormone tracking is the basis for that, if you know when someone's ovulating when they're not, they can successfully avoid a pregnancy. But as you can imagine, the FDA is very particular about what's listed as a avoiding a pregnancy tool, and so it's a combination of a tool and an instructor that's the most successful,

Speaker 4  1:20:10
right, right? Here's one question, where the saliva now get into this, but you mentioned serum, you mentioned, of course, urine, where the saliva get into this whole ordeal. Meaning, is it complimentary? Should it be put aside? So what are your thoughts on that? Yeah, so

Speaker 3  1:20:31
I think I got asked this last time too, and from my understanding, there has not been a study that's looked at serum saliva and a urine metabolite all at the same time. And you know, like said, where one should be used and not the other. So I still think there needs to be more research in that area. I think that there's still a place for all of them, serum, urine, metabolite and saliva, but figuring out what are, what are you wanting from that information, and then you can decide which tool do I want to use for this situation? Basically?

Speaker 4  1:21:07
Well, the claim to fame of saliva would be when you use creams, right? It goes through your lymphatics and it shows you the accurate levels. I mean, there's so much debate on that. I mean, trust me, I saw debates on stage, about and salivary and didn't end up well. So that's why, right? I know this is a kind of a dark area, so Okay, for our men here, they're throwing out questions. What about for men? Are men? Are there tests here for men? Is there a benefit for men? Sure, for this test. So

Speaker 3  1:21:42
currently, urine metabolites of estrogen, LH, progesterone and FSH are directed towards women. Do I think that there should be testing for men potentially, but the research hasn't caught up yet, so this is one of those reverse gender gaps. So sorry about that. But this, the urine metabolites, has been much more extensively studied for for women,

Speaker 4  1:22:05
all right, so they're gonna kick your door. Then all these men are just giving you a heads up. Okay, I think we have a medical question here the chat. What about hormone levels in menopausal patients, or are we not there yet?

Speaker 3  1:22:24
Yeah, so we are not there yet. We are not there yet, yep. So there is no research that I know of that looks at urine metabolites on an ongoing basis for post menopausal women. And specifically, you know, around that area, many people want to know, like, what's the ideal value that hormones should be? And I have not seen or heard of a specific like goal for a urine metabolite for hormones. So that's what's still lacking for postmenopausal women. Okay,

Speaker 4  1:22:58
I basically clear the air out for that. I'm curious if you differentiate estriol, estradiol and estrone. I'm seeing more estrone as a topical but it is pro inflammatory and can accelerate cancers, so I'm confused on it dim strongly lowers estrone, but I am unclear about lowering estriol and estradiol. This is from so chill, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:23:22
so I can answer part of that. So current ongoing hormone tracking in the at home setting is looking at the breakdown of estradiol. So the estradiol being e2 so the breakdown of that, and so the specifics of the others, we'd have to go into another lecture of the pathways of estrogen. So for this lecture, it's the ability to track the breakdown of eile,

Speaker 4  1:23:50
right? I mean, I myself, I haven't used estrone as a topical. I know a conventional does this. But again, it's for the same reason that she mentioned about being inflammatory and cancer forming, and for her second question, dim strong, strongly lowers our strong. But I am unclear about lowering so I don't know if the question is if dim lowers estriol and Estrada. So the on the current study of that what I just stated a while ago, Mark Newman actually conducted the study with Doctor scene. I think they showed that dim actually moves the needle towards the formation of the two Oh H metabolite away from the 408 metabolites. So we're talking about estrone metabolism here in terms of specificity, so being basically forming more protective type of estrogens, rather than the cancer forming ones. So in the estriol estradiol part, I think indirectly, they will all be affected, as well as of all these when you see the specific test that we're talking about, all these needles are going to move towards the the left side when a dim is used. I should? I'm going to post that study on the on the chat so everybody can see, yes. Very helpful. Yeah. Petronella, why? Some moment? Carrie, every time. Why? Oh, why? Some women cry every time they get the period. What closes the mood swings that day? Okay, I don't know how that feels, but maybe rose should answer during the period, yes.

Speaker 3  1:25:37
Well, I would say more research is coming out around this area, which is super exciting, because, you know, we know some things, like I showed the glucose levels are changing, so as women are having their hormone changes, it affects their glucose levels, which puts them more at risk for mood swings. That's one theory, and it could be a piece of the puzzle, but also the fluctuations in the hormones. That's what the researchers are looking at. So is it dynamic drops in the hormones that cause more mood changes, or is it the ratios of the hormones, or what is it that is putting women at risk for these PMS and other sort of things? And so some things are, you know, we know a little bit, but we need a lot more research in the area. And what I would encourage you now as a clinician is to have the patient do hormone testing and a diary at the same time so they can see what are the correlations. And if they do an intervention, can they improve that? So interventions that you'd typically do for like a PMS sort of plan, does that change both how they feel and their hormone pattern to improve it

Speaker 4  1:26:45
right? And she's pertaining the first day of the period. So, so when

Unknown Speaker  1:26:52
the flow is beginning right,

Speaker 4  1:26:54
right? It's really the drop, the sudden change in the hormone levels actually elicits this imbalance in women. So you would see that when you're you charted your graph there, that there's just a big drop when the menstruation starts. So I think that's one of the explanations that she was asking. Okay, and

Unknown Speaker  1:27:12
there's some research.

Speaker 3  1:27:14
There is some research around, like endometriosis, and the, I will say interesting hormone patterns that you can see, because the endometrial tissue is developing and not sloughing, the same as an actual uterine lining. And so there is some research around that area, which is very interesting as well,

Speaker 4  1:27:34
right, right? Okay, I don't think we have any more medical questions. So we're going to turn off CME, and we're going to address the other again. Let me just stop. Thank you again, Rose, and I'll stop recording. Thank you. Okay, now you can go to Products names, yeah.

Speaker 3  1:27:59
So I think someone asked in the chat about pricing and how do you get this. Let me just scroll up so I can see, oh yes, and cost of testing. So for anyone who's interested in getting hormone testing going in their practice, the product is Mira. It is the only at home solution that uses immunofluorescent technology. So other products on the market that do hormone testing is nano gold technology. Which nano gold is? It is validated tool, but think of it like LH test strips pregnancy test. It's a darkening or a fading of a line, and then something might read that value out as semi quantitative. But mirror is the only technology that employs the fluorescent lateral flow immuno assay, which provides them a laboratory reading in a patient's home. So quantitative measurements, and these measurements are easily obtained, as I mentioned earlier, collect a first morning urine sample, dip the dipstick, put it in the machine, and then 21 minutes later, it reads the result out on the front of the analyzer. And if a patient's choosing to use the free phone app, then it will get graphed into their free phone app. And if you, as a provider are using the clinical dashboard, you can view their data in real time. Remote monitoring. The product does not have to be prescribed to a patient. They can just purchase it themselves right off the website using your discount code that we provide you. Or some providers will do what we call drop shipping, or you can buy in bulk. So I'll show the pricing quick, and then I'll explain those partnerships in more detail. So the initial cost for an analyzer and a pack of 20 Max ones retails for 249, US dollars. But with the 30% discount code that we give you to share with your patient, it makes it 175, so that's for approximately one cycle of tracking. If they want to track another cycle, they buy another box of ones, another box of one. So if they want to do, let's say, three months of testing. It's $300 and so typically, for the cost of one test, one other type of test, it's the cost of three months of tracking, not covered by insurance, but it is HSA, FSA eligible, and if a patient has any fertility benefit coverage, like carrot Maven, or some others that have signed on as like, Hello alpha, wind fertility, they will cover the cost of the products. So these are those options. I was talking about. Any provider who wants to offer this to their patient gets a 30% discount code. There's no commission, no administrative work, no sign up. Is just we give it to you, but if you then want to generate commission, you can earn up to 17% on the patient still gets the 30% off. You just generate commission on the purchase price. If you'd prefer to order it on behalf of your patient, you're welcome to do that. You just get given a drop ship discount code. You go on the website, you order it for them, and it gets shipped directly to their house, and that one's 35% off. Or you can buy in bulk, if you'd like, and sell back to the patient, whatever is kind of best for you and your setup. So if you let me just scroll forward here, if you are interested, if you again scan this QR code, anyone who listened to this recording today will get offered a free sample to try on themselves, a patient, a family member, a colleague. We give you access to our dashboard, our library of resources, and we do one on one consultations if you have additional questions with once you have you know, a patient's data that you want help interpreting. So if you don't have something to scan right now, I put the link in the chat as well, if clicking on the link is better, and then let's see what clinical support is available with the device purchase. Do you mean for a provider or for a patient?

Speaker 3  1:32:08
Both? Okay, both so. So what a patient gets given is step by step instructions on how to begin testing. The device just reads results anytime you insert a test strip. So there's no testing parameters like no specific instructions they have to follow. For testing is very flexible to their situation. They get given basic interpretation of the data in the app. So it will say, you know, your Lh is rising, that could be in the ear approaching ovulation. And then, for providers, you get given everything possible. So we have on our website interpretation guide. We have courses. So I'll just throw this up on my screen here. This is our provider facing website. We have all the information about becoming a partner, all the use case information. Under education, you can actually watch well. They have upcoming webinars, but previously recorded webinars, and we have courses on how to get started with us. Perimenopausal care, infertility care. There's case reports, guides. We try to give you as much resources as possible so that you're successful. If you can't find an answer to something and our Frequently Asked Questions page, then you are welcome to email me or my partner, Eva, we're the clinical leads, and then Silva is the technical support. If you have questions about how to place an order, how to get set up your dashboard, things like that. Our team are happy to help you again. Just bookmark that tab I put in the chat.

Speaker 4  1:33:53
Did you answer the coverage of insurance question?

Speaker 3  1:33:56
Yes, unfortunately, it's not covered by insurance, but HSA and FSA It is

Speaker 4  1:34:02
okay. And again, where can we get it from? Yeah, from all the details that you just put out there. And, yeah, the good thing about this is take advantage of the as you mentioned. You can use it on self. You can use it on, yeah, somebody whom you know, because that's how we all learn how to use these newer devices. We always have to, kind of, I mean, in the integrated world, it's, we're always the first guinea pigs of our practices, right? So that's, that's really kind of like the lesson here. But okay, any more questions from the group, but yeah, Rose, it definitely we need to get more more of you here. This is just great stuff, and you just advancing this as we move along. So this is definitely something that I think we on the horizon. We will be seeing more of and I'm sure you're going to expand. You're going to have more to offer us every time you get on the platform. Yes,

Speaker 3  1:35:09
yes, I'll be happy to present again. Hopefully we have lots more good data. The only study I didn't touch on today, which hopefully by time next I present, there's good data around ADHD and hormone patterns, which is super exciting. There was a there was a pilot study, and now there's our researchers who have approached us to use that our use our product for that too. So

Speaker 4  1:35:32
that's something. Now you're saying that this can be used for ADHD management as well.

Speaker 3  1:35:38
So they're seeing a correlation in some symptoms of ADHD related to hormones. Interesting? Okay, yeah, it's very interesting. So some the pilot showed that some symptoms are more pronounced in the follicular phase versus the luteal phase. Kind of the same idea as the CGM data. So, yeah, yeah. And then we know the specific research that's up and coming is around ADHD and perimenopause at the same time. So

Speaker 4  1:36:09
it's very interesting. Well, that CGM study was pretty significant, really. I mean, it was, yeah, if you educate your patients in relation to, like, what explains the cravings for the video phase, right? And then these are times that when they really need to kind of watch out. I mean, yes, did you think I'm just craving for it? No, it's your body, your physiological changes. This is it's doing it to you. So at least they're being more aware now they're going to be more proactive about interventions and preventing, like wake up or higher blood sugar levels so but, yeah, that's that was really interesting, that that that got me thinking with about my patients and all their blood tests that I see during the luteal phase too.

Speaker 3  1:36:51
Yes, exactly. I think, you know, now, women don't have to just be the victim to how they feel. They can be like you said, proactive. And they say, No, I'm really going to prioritize, you know, maybe protein before any carbs, in this phase of the cycle, especially, right,

Speaker 4  1:37:07
right? Yeah. And then, especially now, in the in the heat of dietary fads, right? There's so many things determinant, fasting, keto, right? Yes, so that that's definitely nice to know and also for them to understand how their body works in response to these different changes. Yes, all right, anything else I'd like to how about a summary? Like to end your talk, which is pretty awesome, a last message for our viewers here, yes,

Speaker 3  1:37:38
well, thank you for spending tonight with me. I'm super excited that you are educating yourself to care better for your patients. I think, hopefully I explained well, hormone testing is a necessity for any woman who has fluctuating hormones. And if you're interested in, you know, discussing more, please meet with me. I'll, you know, talk about your patient situations and see where it might fit in your practice. If you're already ready to get set up, just again, click on the link or scan the QR code, and we'll get you set up with all the resources, including the sample

Unknown Speaker  1:38:11
Alicia's asking, yeah, how

Speaker 3  1:38:13
do we I will, I will send the slide deck. Can I send that to you? Dr narrow, and then do you have, like, a registration list of who sent? Yeah, we'll

Speaker 4  1:38:22
send him all off. And also you're going to send the email list for the group so you can definitely, I mean, your offers, right, your events, you can definitely inform everybody here, and they can definitely support you.

Speaker 3  1:38:38
Exciting. Yes, we were not at a 4m but we are going to be at the IFM conference in San Diego at the end of the month, so if anyone's going, Oh, nice.

Speaker 4  1:38:45
Okay, yeah. And there's another a for m, big one in on last in Las Vegas on December. So that also,

Speaker 3  1:38:51
yes, we are actually planning on going to that one. So alright, well, um, what is, oh, from, from the website, you get a hold of me, so let me open it back up. So if you're on our provider website, where it says support, and then you can contact support, there is email me or book a meeting with me.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:15
Well, if you have your own column, you know you made it big, huh?

Speaker 3  1:39:22
Well, we try to have you know, very good customer support and provider education. So I'm happy to be here tonight and available to anyone later. So

Speaker 4  1:39:30
alright, there's your prime time. Access to to Rose. Keep on, keep on clicking that.

Speaker 3  1:39:40
Okay. Well, yes, thank you again, Yep,

Unknown Speaker  1:39:44
yeah, I know for sure we're going to get you back in here.

Speaker 3  1:39:47
Yes, thank you. And you mentioned sending a registration list. I don't think I saw that last time. So if you have it, please send it our way so that we can make sure to send Yeah, information, yeah.

Speaker 4  1:39:59
And you can be in touch with our clinicians also, who are here.

Speaker 3  1:40:03
Okay, wonderful. Yeah, we have a webinar with Dr Carrie Jones coming up. So I want to make sure to let them know about

Speaker 4  1:40:08
that. Oh, Carrie Jones, everybody, she's she's a good one, so in person. So

Speaker 3  1:40:18
for a treat, for sure, that's in June, we'll have the webinar with Dr Carrie Jones. So about perimenopause, if you care for those sort of patients,

Speaker 4  1:40:25
yes, I do, even though I'm a man and you don't have testing

Unknown Speaker  1:40:31
for you. Okay, wonderful.

Speaker 3  1:40:33
Well, thank you. Thank you again, Rose. Yes. Have a good day.

Speaker 4  1:40:38
You too. Oh, so I think our research group, as usual, we want to get some updates from them. Doctor Quinn, are you there are? Doctor Quinn,

Speaker 1  1:40:51
I am here, alright, I am here. Another good meeting on on Saturday, we went into some great detail on the, quote, unquote, the molecule from Dr Dimitri, and some of the information pertaining to that, we also kind of expanded into the educational aspect of this. And actually, before this meeting, there was a call with myself and Doctor Anthony James, so I'm not sure he's been on this yet. He's got a an amazing tribal practice, educational system, degreed system out of Florida, which is accredited with the state of Florida, with Dr Tano to try to, you know, get, you get many of the of the integrated principles classes and all of that together, as Dr channel has got interest from abroad for people looking for degrees to want to become integrative specialists. So we're trying to put all of that, all of that stuff together, and then I'm trying to sing. What else we've got? NF, I am, which is Dr Dimitris group. They are, if you get a chance, go onto their website. They NF, I am.org they do some pretty amazing things. They got a very, very powerful group. So we kind of went in and discussed that some of us are on there as consultants and whatnot. Then we're expanding the look for the apothecaries for the native products, which is something that is is difficult to do, but we're making slow progress on that. I think that's basically what I have here. And of course, if Dr Burgess is on, we can talk about what's going on in West Virginia, the big meeting he's got it was on earlier.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:50
Seems to have left.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:54
Marie, do you have any any updates on that part?

Speaker 5  1:42:59
I don't have anything I haven't seen anybody since the last Saturday, Saturday before last. Oh, he's been busy with his daughter's graduation and what have you. So I don't know what else is going on, but that's all I know. Okay, we're

Speaker 1  1:43:17
looking for to various products and things to do studies on, so that that's part of it. The ethical research and and studies is one of the big things. So that's that's going along as well.

Speaker 4  1:43:31
Well, that's nice to hear that. Yeah, Native American Indian, I guess, medicine is starting to get involved in this group now, and that's something that, as I mentioned to you in the Andrew Wow program, they highly look up to this type of medicine. And we have actually worked with shamans here, so that's, yeah, so that's really something that I think everybody should be keeping an eye out for. I mean, of course, it's cultural, but also some way, I think there's some scientific sense behind this. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:44:09
yeah. And as as Dr James, who hasn't been on here, was, was talking about that, is it? It's kind of difficult for people that traditional allopathic education doesn't really emphasize the origins of some of this stuff as well as they might. But if you kind of kind of look at it from a different angle, you can learn a lot a lot of different things. Um, one thing that I have to mention, and I don't know if she's on, I invited a practitioner that I had met today through Doctor Ben zvenia. I think Ben is on and I'm just going to barely share just a little bit about this, but she is. She's got her clinic now. She's one of these people who is a total expert. She spent the past two years researching and doing everything possible having to do with COVID, which, of course, does lead people to put a target on their back somewhat. And she's got some issues with that, so she's transitioning her practice under First Nations Medical Board, which is the Indian, as you say, the Native American, kind of the umbrella of these things. And she's extremely excited, because she was told, if she wanted to keep her license, that she had to do 120 cases and present them to the board right, and tell everything that she did, and she claimed that's a HIPAA violation, went on and on about this, and they said, Well, that's, you know, your problem. So I'm paraphrasing here. But anyway, the point was that now she is out practicing under her tribal designation, certified tribal healer and and is is totally enjoying that again, to be able to see her patients again. She went for a couple years with not being able to do that, you know, due to the fear of the of their board. And now she's, she's extremely excited and able to practice again the way she wants. She's not doing any controlled substances or anything like that, of course. But again, it's a phenomenal umbrella that I would suggest, you know, people maybe take a look at if you feel the need. I don't even want to get into the benefits of taxation and all that stuff. That's for Dr Savannah, who's going to be presenting in West Virginia.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:36
Is she from Nevada, this practitioner that you're talking

Speaker 1  1:46:39
about Arizona? Oh, Arizona. She's, yeah, she's an ND out of Arizona, and has been doing integrative therapy, IVs, you know, cancer treatment, all of that stuff, for 18 years, specif, specifically, in cancer type of treatment. And then has gone into more integrative type of stuff as well, and then got into this big thing with COVID, like so many people, was just not, not seeing the treatments as being effective. And that one thing led to another. She's written a couple of books, so I'm trying to get her, you know, to clear with you, to maybe present some time.

Speaker 4  1:47:16
Yeah, you know, I as as I have been in Arizona, and I have been introduced to the homeopathic board over there. I think because we, as you know, here in Nevada, we have this more of a liberty to practice integrative medicine here because of homeopathic boards. So if she's from Arizona, I think if she connects, I mean, give her, give me her in contact. I can send her over to, I know the President of the homeopathic board over there in Arizona, and they might be able to help her out with this. Because, again, I think they have a stronghold with integrated practitioners, and they're very well protected, and there's a strong group as well as I, as I spoken to them,

Speaker 1  1:48:03
yeah, yeah. And I know that there's a something out there. There was a bill out there. I wish Ben were on here. He could talk about it, about, I guess the naturopathic board and the homeopathic board doing something in conjunction. I don't know exactly what that's about, but it's, it's like an assembly bill or something in Nevada

Speaker 4  1:48:23
that's coming, right? So that's, yeah, that's something that. So right now, the naturopaths in Nevada, as they don't have a board here that regulates them, so as part of them trying to start again, the homeopathic board definitely will be happy to assist them through starting this. This board for for the so they can self govern themselves again. But it's most basically more of trying to, like, just hold their hand as they redo this. Because before they had this board, for some reason, it was removed. I don't know the details of that, so you know. Oh, good. No, anyway, anyway, that's that is actually, yeah, in the works. I just wanted to do tell you that good,

Speaker 1  1:49:07
okay, okay. And then I think all of this points to the fact that that integrative treatments and integrative practitioners have are becoming more and more prominent and have a, have a really, really great and necessary place in our health care system,

Speaker 4  1:49:28
right? I agree. And this is something that I don't know if you were here for one lecture, there is a, there's already a group in California that's doing home, ya. But then these are the MDs and DOs over there. Oh, and yeah, and Petronella. How can we study homeopathy, or take the board of homeopathy? So there's so many ways, like in Arizona, there is, there is a board there that you can actually just, you can actually try to challenge their test in homeopathy. And if you, if you pass it, you're definitely going to get a certificate to practice homeopathy here in Nevada. How we do it is, we actually let you train with the HMDs here, or the DOS, who are HMDs as well. And at the same time, we actually let you get hours in specific, I guess, educational institutions that are approved by the board to get your credentialing as part of your education. So really, this is something that we've been doing. The board has been running for almost 30 years now. So this is one of the bigger institutions here in Nevada. Why Nevada is actually can have this claim of one of the the, I guess, the hubs of integrative medicine, just because we have an actual protecting body for for the practitioners who's doing this, and again, as we now enter a new year, so legislation has been done, and we have been given this opportunity again, to to expand and reach out. This is we are seeing more projects coming up in terms of how the homeopathic board here in Nevada will expand and will be reaching farther practitioners who definitely are interested and, of course, protection. That's kind of what we offer to to our integrated practice centers here in Nevada, because do boards, MD boards will sometimes they run after you if they don't know what you're doing, if they don't understand what chelation is, for example. But if you're under the homeopathic board, there's definitely protection for you for that one. And what is the best book to prepare for the border in Arizona, to tell you the truth material America, which is one of the tougher books to to read. These are, of course, made by Hanuman so many out there. That's why I think, if you, if you get to the, yeah, if you get to the I have the contact information for them. They have, I think, review classes before you take their board exams for that specific I guess, institution that I was telling that you can challenge their test. So I'm not sure that that's Arizona law. I think it was mentioned to me by their president, and that's why we spoke about it, is they're trying to tell us that we can also do it and let Nevada practitioners challenge the test also to be HMDs in the state. So, but that that takes a lot of legislator to to to kind of change. But of course, we're so open minded about it, and we're talking about it behind the scenes. Alright, anything else out there where we can, well, I have something so as our tradition, I kind of give my Andrew wild recommendation of the of the day. So one of the things that I want to bring up there is saffron. So saffron is crocos, and there are so many studies now in relation to improving sleep quality and reducing insomnia as part of this effect. So there's a 2025, double blinded, placebo controlled trial, and in four weeks using 20 to 30 milligrams, so saffron actually reduce insomnia symptoms. And there's also another 28 day randomized control trial that they actually saw 14 milligrams twice a day led to greater improvements in the insomnia severity index. So that's why we have so many in terms of what we can use for insomnia. But one thing that I just kind of like got my attention was saffron. I thought it was only, of course, an antioxidant, very expensive spice, but the active component compounds such as crossing and saffron, all are actually believed to be have hypnotic effects and also, again, increases serotonin, enhances melatonin and GABA effectivity. So this actually has, as I mentioned, the the newest study about it's 2022 2025 and it's a double blind placebo controlled trial. So something again, in your back pocket to help with sleep issues. For your patients who wants to, I guess, use natural therapies.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:22
That's fantastic, right? Sorry,

Speaker 4  1:54:23
sorry for the ones who support the benzos. I use the bathroom there.

Speaker 1  1:54:29
Yeah, there's something in the chat from Julie, did you see that?

Speaker 4  1:54:34
Oh, it happened. It happened to me. The state came after me and was told by Assistant Attorney General that anti aging medicine would never be accepted, horrible experience. So that's what I'm telling you, Julie, as we, as part of the objectives of the homeopathic board, we're actually making standards for other states to follow, because one of the longer yeah boards here in Nevada is the homeopathic board. And hopefully, as we, as we make these, these standards and guide guidelines for for our own state, hopefully other states can follow suit. And as you can see, the growing population of integrated practitioners here. I'm sure this is not the only forum that is there that promotes integrative medicine. There are smaller ones out there. If we can combine all of this together, you know, we can, we can be a big force, I mean, even a bigger voice in legislature, right? So, but yeah, I mean, we're happy to help you contact us and throw us questions. And if you're planning to start your own over there, we'll be happy to give assistance. Yeah,

Speaker 1  1:55:44
and one of the other reasons that I wanted to bring up that she mentioned that was, again, people being chased by their boards. And somebody once said, every, every medical type practitioner is afraid of their board. Which is which is true. I think in the olden days, they used to try to help us, and now that that's not the case again, I would maybe suggest, if there's the need, to contact Dr Ben zuvenia, who is a tribal judge, as well as an ND, who's leading the charge for protection on this type of thing. And so if we combine, like you said, homeopathic boards, under this type of thing, there's going to be strong, strong protection,

Speaker 4  1:56:30
right? And again, this is coming from the the side of not knowing. I mean, the the other boards, really, if they just understand where the science is and where this is coming from, there will be more open doors. And even if you could imagine working hand in hand, we're not working against each other. Yeah, we're just taking a different path for the patient's health. It's just again, when you don't know something, that's where fear sets in. That's why education and understanding should be involved in anything that we do. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:57:05
Well, said, yeah, exactly. All right,

Speaker 4  1:57:10
okay, well, I don't have that speaker for next week, Dr Bill, usually kind of gives us heads up who that would be, but we'll find out in the the emails coming up the these following days. So I would look to look to announce it, but I don't know who that would be. So,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:27
but anyway, but I think I'm on the 27th

Speaker 4  1:57:31
Yeah, there you go. Self plug for yourself, alright, well, for sure, not going to

Unknown Speaker  1:57:38
miss that muscle.

Speaker 4  1:57:41
Okay, yeah, anything with muscle, it's good. It's

Unknown Speaker  1:57:45
going to be hard hitting.

Speaker 4  1:57:47
So, yes, yeah, since we got the the women's health today, so we're, you're going to give a good share for the men's health.

Speaker 1  1:57:56
Yeah, men's Oh, and women. And women, okay, yeah.

Speaker 4  1:58:01
Petronella, the homeopathic board from Arizona, will be accepted in other states or not. No, I think it's only going to be in Arizona. But as we, as we collaborate with them, reciprocity is something that we have, I think, established already. So Nevada, Arizona, can now be connected to each other. But for other states, I don't think so. I don't want to speak for the board of Arizona, but for the homeopathic board of Nevada, we do have licensees that are outside of Nevada. The reason for that would be it's more of really adding to their credentials by being credentialed by because we, we have a board exam actually, for you to be, to be certified. So if you carry that wherever you go, it gives you backing that you do have their their right knowledge to practice homeopathy and integrative medicine. So just passing board exams really gives you a boost in your credential name so but yeah, but again, not able to practice it out outside the state, but just Nevada, but they use their other license. Most of these are MDS dos pas nurse practitioners, but they carry, of course, the title of homeopathic medical degree holder from Nevada, alright, I think we got all the questions. Doctor Quinn, another good show. Thank you again for all our participants, and we'll see you again next week. Thank you. And bring a friend and tell it to everyone. We're always going to be here, same time, same channel, thanks.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:44
Thank you all right. Okay. You


Transcribed by https://otter.ai