Speaker 1  00:14
Didn't have any of the polar ones. Okay, there you go. Hey, Dr Campbell, Hi, how are you?

Unknown Speaker  00:27
I'm always having the time of my life. That's quite a tapestry behind you there from one of your one of your travels.

Unknown Speaker  00:42
I'm sorry that

Unknown Speaker  00:44
tapestry behind you is that from one of your travels?

Speaker 2  00:48
Yes, I've got everything here. I guess I'm supposed to do this now. Yeah, is this coming out?

Unknown Speaker  00:59
Okay? Looks great. Looks fine,

Unknown Speaker  01:02
marvelous. So we

Speaker 3  01:07
so usually what we do is they filter in, usually right around five till 515 and we even get some even later. Dr Nario is taking Dr Andrew Wiles, integrative medicine, he gives us a tip in a week. So we usually start with that, and and then, then we'll, we'll bring you one. Okay, sounds good. Okay, so that's, that's kind of, that's kind of how we do it. And we've usually get anywhere from 40 to 70. Sometimes I there was a couple names I didn't, didn't recognize. Did you? Did you let people know you're going to be on?

Unknown Speaker  01:49
Gotcha so?

Bill Clearfield  01:53
So just relax for a little while. And like I said, they'll they'll be, they'll be filtering in. We also get have a pretty nice group from the Philippines that's on with us every week. So I don't know if you've had have any experience, you know, from there.

Speaker 3  02:22
So I don't know if you have any, have any, any clients from, from the Philippines.

Speaker 2  02:31
I I got emails from you, name it, Cambodia, Mm, hmm, New Zealand, Dubai, um. Several places in India, of course, Europe, Canada, United States, Central and South America.

Speaker 3  02:49
Yeah. So, you know, those places you know that are all, you know, hot and wet all the time, I would expect you to have a lot of lot of business from, yeah, so now my son's been in Bangkok for off and on for the last couple of years, and so he tells me, you know, It's, you know, it's always hot and humid there.

Speaker 3  03:21
It's Dr Quinn, it must be, you must, must be winter setting in Las Vegas. You have a shirt on.

Speaker 4  03:30
Yes, it's down in the 90s. It's a cold snap.

Speaker 3  03:33
Yeah, yeah. So, so this is Dr Robert Quinn, Dr Campbell, he, he's, he lives in Las Vegas. If if it's a rather warm there, he'll, he'll, he'll be on without a shirt. So, no, he got a shirt on the night. So it must be, must be a

Unknown Speaker  03:51
it's, it's bearable. No,

Unknown Speaker  03:53
no, you had any snow yet?

Unknown Speaker  03:56
No, how about you?

Speaker 3  03:59
I think I saw a forecast. There might be supposed to be some in the mountains here, really?

Unknown Speaker  04:04
Wow.

Speaker 4  04:06
Well, it's getting colder and darker earlier.

Speaker 3  04:10
It's getting darker earlier. Yeah, that's for sure. And I'm not a

Unknown Speaker  04:13
fan of that, by the

Unknown Speaker  04:14
way. No, I didn't think so.

Unknown Speaker  04:19
Yeah, living in the desert, right?

Speaker 3  04:20
Not, not like. Dr, just who lives, lives,

Unknown Speaker  04:27
hi. Dr, Campbell, right.

Speaker 3  04:32
You're in coal mining country, right, yes, sir,

Unknown Speaker  04:39
where it's wet and damp and we have mold.

Unknown Speaker  04:42
Oh.

Speaker 3  04:50
The problem is, if you stamp it all out, then we're out of business.

Unknown Speaker  04:57
It's kind of kind of a, kind of a kind of a

Unknown Speaker  05:02
conflict. Of interest there, isn't

Speaker 5  05:08
it? I know mold has kept me out of my house. We had a house fire and smoke and all that. And anyway, the mold, we replaced almost everything except the frame itself. And yeah, have to deal with that mold realistically. It's a hard issue we have to be honest about. So nobody's living in the house now because of mold and diet and dioxin. So that's another reason. But anyway, appreciate your efforts with the war on mold

Unknown Speaker  05:45
more. That's right.

Speaker 3  05:50
And you know, so you know what I've learned, Dr Campbell, over the last few years, being in your acquaintance, if you look for it, you find it, actually, yeah, amazing. If you don't look for it, you don't find it.

Speaker 6  06:10
John, I've been trying to call you. You call me on Friday, so,

Speaker 5  06:15
oh, boy, you talking about me. John, yeah,

Speaker 6  06:20
I called your phone. It was a voicemail, so I left you a voicemail.

Speaker 5  06:26
Okay, thank you. I don't think I got it, but Dr Fong was suggesting we try to do a good job recording the December event, and for a little bit of nothing, we could do it very professionally and get the word out of what we're trying to get out.

Speaker 6  06:47
Alright, right? I think we just have some little nooks and crannies here that we need to fix, but we got a good bulk of it, especially different speakers. I think we have enough for, like, a whole day. The speakers already, and for you also your team who's going to add up in there we're working on. I sent Dr bill, the bill, the sponsorship letter. So just go through that and see if it's for your approval. Okay,

Speaker 2  07:21
how do we get you want me to mute anything? Or how do you want to do it?

Unknown Speaker  07:26
You're fine. You're perfect.

Speaker 2  07:30
Okay, sounds good. Let me know when I'm supposed to start and I will. Will do I'm

Speaker 3  07:39
trying to find your bio here in my my notes. Can't find them.

Speaker 6  07:46
It's in the email, right? There's a bio email.

Unknown Speaker  07:50
I know it's not coming up for some reason.

Unknown Speaker  08:00
I can read it for you, if you can find it.

Speaker 5  08:06
I had a link. Are we getting a link of the week before we get a bio?

Speaker 6  08:12
See, we have a fan here. You're like a groupie now. John, yes, yeah, you want me to start it while you're looking for it,

Speaker 5  08:22
yeah? And that way we don't have to interrupt Doctor Campbell, okay, sure.

Speaker 6  08:28
Is that good? Doctor Bill, yeah, go ahead. Okay, so our league of the Week today is, we're talking about high dose oral vitamin C, a supplement. Many patients love to megadose on like It's like Halloween candy. So vitamin C has superhero status for boosting immunity, speeding healing and even calming allergies. But here's the thought twist, and certain people, especially with those two we have too much iron. High Dose vitamin C can actually backfire. So think of it like giving an energy drink to a toddler, exciting at first, but chaos soon follows. So integrative doctors often use 1000 milligrams a day or more of oral vitamin C, and here's where it truly shines. So immune support, for example, wait for colds, flu, viral infections, and revs up the white blood cells to fight back. And fun fact, when you hit bowel tolerance of vitamin C, your body sends you a very clear message to stop another one is allergy or histamine relief. It's helpful for allergies, asthma or mast cell activation syndrome. It acts like a natural antihistamine without the Benadryl, brain fog and a wound healing and tissue repair after surgery, fractures or burns, Vitamin C helps your body nip collagen like a master seamstress, and we always hear it in the integrative world, cancer support can reduce side effects of chemo, radiation and support healthy tissue. Important note here, this is supportive, not a standalone cancer therapy. Now here's where we need to be cautious. Vitamin C doesn't just boost immunity, it also boosts iron absorption, which is why we often pair it with iron for our replacement during iron deficiency anemia, that's great when iron is low, but when iron is high, it's a different story. So high ferritin seen in hemochromatosis, repeated blood transfusions and metabolic issues can turn vitamin C from a hero to a troublemaker. Here's what happens. Vitamin C mobilizes stored iron by reducing ferric iron Fe three to ferrous iron Fe two, making it more reactive. So this type of iron combines with vitamin C and the Fenton reaction, creating damaging free radicals, the result oxidative stress and tissue injury, especially in the liver, heart and endocrine glands. So the numbers that you want to remember for men, 30 to 300 women, 15 to 200 So anything above this, start investigating for iron overload in almost 1000 nanograms per mil. That's danger zone for organ damage in terms of ferritin level. So safe doses for vitamin C, anything less than 100 milligrams per day is safe for these patients who has more than 300 or 200 levels of ferritin. If you start the patient with that type of level you actually has, you have to be cautious now, for when you get to 200 to 500 milligrams per day. As you get to 500 to 1000 milligrams per day, with people with high ferritin now, this is a little risky. You're now going to create a lot of free radicals, and when you get to the 2000 milligrams per day, which usually our patients are taking this, this is really dangerous if the you don't check the ferritin levels. So here's a takeaway. High Dose vitamin C orally can be a powerful ally, boosting immunity, calming allergies and supporting healing. But in patients with high ferritin, it's like holding a match near gasoline. Always check iron labs First, start low and customize the dose for each patient, because in integrative medicine, more isn't always better. Balance is key. So thank you for listening to me today, and that's our league of the week.

Unknown Speaker  12:06
Thank you. Good. Alright, well,

Speaker 3  12:08
I got a few questions because, you know, we've had the the vitamin C gal on, and she's invited me to her conference next month to talk about vitamin C and the effects of vitamin C on hormones, and it's the greatest thing since sliced bread. According according to to those folks, and they're doing IV 25 grams to 50 grams at a time. And seems like a little bit of an excess to me. They make a distinction between ascorbic acid and ascorbate. I guess ascorbic acid has a lot of GI symptoms to it, and ascorbate has less. But yeah, you know, the talk that I'm giving, I'm using anywhere from 500 to 1000 milligrams Max vitamin C. But I know that, you know, you know, there's, there's IV clinics here in town that that, do you know, very high dose, in fact, do you, you know, do you right?

Speaker 6  13:12
I do, and that's why for us, I guess, educated integrative practitioners, now we add this to our panel, because we usually kind of have a basic panel, right? But when you give high dose vitamins, it's not a contraindication if you hear what I'm saying. Really, you have just to be cautious for the levels of anything more than 200 or 300 but once you get to that 1000 now you have to investigate hemochromatosis or hemosiderosis. So this is now what you want to implement, for example, bloodletting or blood donations. So you really have to be aggressive about getting that ferritin down. But again, it's not a contraindication, unless you're really getting into those high levels. So managing that iron is definitely important. That's why we have chelation therapy, also desperate therapy. It's just that my point here is we don't repress for these numbers when we do regular vitamin C therapy to our patients, and sometimes that this is becoming a little bit more of a complication, rather than a help for our interventions.

Speaker 7  14:12
Well, this is Dr Patel and I. We use a very high doses for different conditions, but I have found that due to the when up to 15 grams you use, there is a antioxidant property and anti inflammatory property, and hormone in inflammatory, when there is A generalized inflammation, there is a problem with the hormonal axis, neuro immune endocrine axis gets affected, and sex hormone axis also gets affected, including the adrenals. And we all know that vitamin C supports a great amount of adrenal and works against the adrenal stress. And I have seen that patients have a really good effect when the sex hormones are involved and they are abnormal, and they somehow the immune modulation helps to balance that so one or two grams are not not helping as much, according to our own experience, but when we use the high dose and delivered in a nano form, then we have a really great effect on our patients, and particularly female patients. When they have a chronic line, they have a quite a degree of endocrine abnormality, particularly the ovarian axis gets deranged and and they develop the chronic fatigue comes from the low estrogen. They also develop the PMs, kind of symptoms. They develop the menstrual irregularities, and not just the vitamin C, but using the other antioxidants, intravenously, in a nano form, we have tried to really down regulate the abnormalities, balance them, and then sometime we have to supplement with the hormones too, and and patients feel better,

Speaker 6  16:27
right? One thing that I want to put out there, not all ferritin elevations are what we call hemosiderosis or hemochromatosis, so we have to remember it's an inflammatory marker also produced by the liver. So there is a competition called transfer and saturation, which probably a different conversation overall. So there are specific parameters on how we can determine that the ferritin is actually, is it an inflammatory marker, or is it related to that hereditary condition of hemochromatosis? So that's also something that you have to think about. It's not always going to be, hey, high ferritin. It's hemochromatosis already. So usually the hemochromatosis appears in the 1000s, or close to 1000 in terms of the numbers of ferritin results.

Speaker 7  17:09
Isn't that that when you have a high ferritin level, you do Anyhow the iron panel, and you will know where you are and and if the saturation is high, then you run the genetics of the hematite roses and find out if there's a genetic pattern, and then you go from there how to manage it, right?

Speaker 6  17:29
And that's called the transfer transparent saturation equation. So that's basically serum iron divided by TIBC times 1000 so this is where the other Iron panels would come into play. That's why requesting for ferritin alone probably you're going to be missing the bigger picture. That's why you want to request for the whole iron panel. For you to make this competition computation, because this will be helpful in determining if the elevation of ferritin is related to just inflammatory marker, or is it really related to a pathological condition such as hemochromatosis,

Bill Clearfield  18:04
okay, well, thank you again, as always, all right, okay, so on to the main show now. So mold and mycotoxins often hide in plain sight, and they're driving mysterious symptoms that baffle both practitioners and patients. Dr Andrew Campbell, the absolute master of mold and mycotoxins, will unpack his science, testing and treatment strategies that bring clarity to this hidden challenge. Dr Campbell has 35 years of professional experience. He's a renowned medical clinician. I've heard him many times. I've listened to just about every one of his videos, and if you want to know about mold and mycotoxins and how it fits in in our daily what we see daily, I highly recommend that you spend a little bit of time with Dr Campbell and his and his educational platform. He's a denied, dynamic, results driven leader with demonstrated success in treating most complex patients. He has extensive experience testing molds and mycotoxins from environmental and toxic exposures that's led him to be known as one of the top 100 health professionals in Clinical Immunology and toxicology. He's an international health professional of the year for his outstanding contributions to clinical toxicology, and he's named countless times by Mark use, who, who, who's, who is an expert in medicine and health care. He's a sought after lecturer, um, he's, he's probably been to every, every conference that all of us have been to. And we've heard, a lot of us have heard of him nationally and internationally. He's spoken at Oxford University and for over 25 years at various medical conferences. He has over 100 published peer reviewed studies in medical journals and medical textbooks. He's well known nationally. He's been peered on television shows. Montel William, Montel Williams,

Speaker 3  20:01
24 hour investigations, ABC, CBS, NBC News and its affiliates, and he's been viewed in Canada and Mexico. He's an active community member. He's a founder and medical director at the st Vianney clinic for the indigent in the United States. And he brought he lends his expertise in medical management and clinical program developments. He's the clinical investigator for many clinical trials on many supplement companies, and so it's really an honor to have you again, back again. Dr Campbell, he's always been a very supportive of our group. He's been with us pretty much since the beginning, and I've never heard him say, you know, he's too busy for us. He's really, he's he's a mensch, if you know what that is, too. So he's a, he's a, he's a big shot and a gentleman. And we're happy to have you So, Dr Campbell, you're on. Take it away.

Speaker 2  20:53
Thank you so very kind words from you, as every time this is based on medical evidence, and you will see, at the bottom of each slide, you will see the the actual references, etc. So let's get going. I'm the editor in chief for five medical journals. This is what, basically I I do as well as I see patients from throughout having been doing this for a long time, my patients come from all over the planet, 100 published studies. I have chapters in medical textbooks and the fellow of the Royal Society of medicine in London, etc. So what is the key to solving medical problems caused by toxins. It's basically detect, remove and repair. So first, detect the cause, remove the cause, then repair the damage, and the patient is healed. It's not I don't treat patients if you want to take it in the world, word of treatment, keep coming back, etc. I cure them, then they're gone. So big medical secret we all know, right diagnosis and right treatment patients, well, wrong diagnosis and or the wrong treatment, and the patient stays sick for months and years, and I. and they're still sick, and it's always finding the cause of the illness that is the key to all this. So let's first talk a little bit about the brain. It's the only organ that's completely surrounded and protected by bone, the skull, the heart isn't the liver isn't the kidneys aren't, etc. The brain weighs about 3% not three pounds, which is about 2% of our body weight, but it uses 20 to 30% of the calories we consume, and the brain gets the most oxygenated blood emerging from the heart through the carotid and vertebral arteries. Brain uses 20% of the oxygen absorbed by the lungs. The hourly blood flow through the brain is 13 gallons every hour, or 20% of all the blood pumped by the heart. So there's 400 miles of blood vessels, mostly capillaries, because each neuron has to get oxygen, has to get nutrients, et cetera. And so you have these to reach the 100 billion or so neurons in the brain. I'm told that there's less than 5 billion neurons in the brain in politicians. So here we go, every person's thoughts, memories, emotions, actions, reactions are all in the brain. Where do mycotoxins first effect in the body. They first the overwhelming medical and scientific evidence shows it's the brain and the nervous tissues. Mycotoxin antibodies destroy brain cells by dysregulating The important point here is, mycotoxins, like all toxins are molecules. So they work at the molecular level. They destroy brain cells by dysregulating the mitochondria and causing cell apoptosis, and they're known to destroy the blood brain barrier. What are the neurological effects of these mycotoxins? Autism Spectrum Disorder, decrease in short and long term memory in children and adults. Optic neuritis, chronic inflammatory, demyelinating polyneuropathy, also known as CIDP, loss of balance, facial pain, als amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Lou Gehrig's disease, Alzheimer multiple sclerosis, movement disorders, Parkinson's and I will give you references for each of these. Now two important points of mycotoxins, a mold that produces mycotoxins usually produces a series of mycotoxin rather than just one mycotoxin. So one mold gives you many mycotoxins. And if a mold known to produce mycotoxins is present in a home or building an interior space, then the mycotoxins it produces are there as well. Let's look at size, because size matters. Hair, human hair is about 100 microns thick. Spores are about three to four microns. Mycotoxins are 0.1 microns. What does that all mean? Well, at two or three microns, what we have is molds. When they get wet, and stay wet for 24 hours, they start sporulating, start growing, just like a plant. You add water to the you know, you put seeds into a soil, in a in a pot somewhere, you put the seeds in there, and it starts growing. And it grows a plant or a flower or whatever. And these make seeds same way with with molds get them wet, they start producing spores, and these spores are the ones that carry the mycotoxins. And so they're in the air, and at two to four microns, you're breathing these in, and they go to the deepest parts of the lungs and right in to the alveoli, and then transfer into the blood, and therefore, and then the first place they go to is, as we said, the Brain. Mycotoxins, 0.1 microns, same size as a covid virus, for example. So filtering, if people ask me all the time, what air filters can I get? Well, at two to four microns, it's very difficult to find an air filter that works. And exposure to mycotoxins are basically by inhalation and dermal absorption, ingestion is minimal, and I'll show you that what are the frequent misdiagnoses for these fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic Lyme, depression that is resistant to antidepressants, the same with anxiety, anxiety that resists that is resistant to anti anxiolytic medication. Autoimmune disorders, autoimmune diseases are more common than cancer and heart disease combined in the United States, we're having a lot more autoimmune autoimmunity show up, and many of these is from mycotoxins. I showed that in a previous time that I was here on your program at your society pots this autonomia and demyelinating diseases. How mycotoxins affect the neuro behave neuro development of the brain and infants and children? Well, brain development is complex process, of course, and it begins a few days after conception and continues into young adulthood. The brain starts growing at age at about age 25

Speaker 2  28:39
so a cascade of events which constitutes the process of brain development starts with cell birth, neurogenesis, gliogenesis, cell migration, cell differentiation, cell maturation and dendrites and axon growth, synaptogenesis, the formation of synapses, and cell death and synaptic pruning and myelogenesis, the formation of myelin. And this is from this year. So brain development affects all areas of the infant's growth, which includes language, communication, movement, social and emotional and cognitive functions such as memory planning and attention. So considering the ongoing development process, exposed fetuses through maternal exposure, infants and children's brains are vulnerable to mycotoxin toxicity, and this is because mycotoxins cross the placental barrier due to a lower capacity to break down chemical compounds, and they're under in their and their underdeveloped functional organs, which all together, can read to it can lead to what We call neurodevelopment disorders, ndds, and these include Attention Deficit Hyperactivity disorders, autism, learning disabilities, intellectual disability, conduct conduct disorders, behavioral abnormalities, cerebral palsy and impairments and vision and adhering these neurodevelopment motor disorders include tic disorders and specific learning disorders implicated in the increased risk of neurodevelopment disorders such as autism and the presence of mycotoxins, and has been shown by many studies, especially Coming out of Tufts University School of Medicine. So mycotoxins can easily cross the blood brain barrier and reach the nerve cells via transporters where they disrupt the normal function of the of the brain and they exert their neurotoxic effects that can be associated with manifestation of these neurodevelopmental disorders and being able to alter the immune and neurological systems after the neurotransmitter systems and neuron and induce a lot of oxidative stress, which is the Hallmark, I would say, of mycotoxins at the molecular level, mycotoxins can also infect astrocytes and microglia that eventually lead to neuronal and brain damage. So here is a kid that I he's now 12 years old. He came to show me the trophy he won for being captain of the swimming team at a school when he was five years old. He was brought to me. He's completely autistic, didn't didn't speak, never looked anyone in the eye, did a lot of repetitive movements. So it is curable. It's totally treatable and curable. Here's a set of twins on the left picture. They're six years old. They first came to see me when they were five. Again, these two boys, these twins, were totally autistic after treatment. Here they are on the left picture, and then they wanted to come see me with their parents when they were admitted to engineering school and college, and here they are. I even wore the same color shirt, just to kind of seal the event. Special thing to see these two boys now fully grown and fully functioning in society and last two weeks ago, I had parents bring their son, who is 23 years old. For 23 years, he had never spoken a single word. I first saw him about five six months ago, and started treating him. Five months into treatment, he began speaking to his mother at home, and of course, this totally changed the family and their parents two weeks ago were overjoyed to bring their boy who was now speaking so t2 toxins, one of the mycotoxins has recently been given a lot of attention because it's a it's a very potent neurotoxin, and worryingly, it can really cross the blood brain barrier pretty quickly and accumulate in the brain, causing neurotoxicity. The molecular mechanisms of t2 toxin induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the brain cause cellular damage, so human exposure to molds, mycotoxins and water damage buildings can cause neurological and neuropsychiatric signs and symptoms. Many of these clinical features can partly mimic or be similar to classic neurological disorders such as pain syndromes, movement disorders, delirium, dementia, disorders of balance and coordination. We can see tremors, jerking movements, spastic dysphonia, tick like motions and idiopathic paroxysmal, unique involuntary movements. So also, mental confusion can be seen in patients exposed to molds and mycotoxin. Common labels, they say they have brain fog. Yeah. And here's a study published by Dr Tamara tuminan, a good friend, in Finland, in helsinski Finland. And in this study, they showed that chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, a lot of hypersensitive hypersensitivities such as allergies, food intolerance, sensitivity to chemicals at concentrations that are tolerable by most people, and sensitivity to electromagnetic fields and sometimes even the daylight may be associated with mycotoxins and some of the symptoms experienced by patients with advanced mold related disease, such as fatigue, memory and cognitive impairment, somnolence, are those reported in silicone breast implant patients, also known As breast implant illness. So in this study, the neurological manifestations of patients with Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome, pots CFS, myalgic encephalopathy, chronic regional pain syndromes. These are all conditions that may associate with advanced mold related illness. So instead of going out and giving treating pots or chronic fatigues and look for molds and mycotoxins. And this study, patients reported moderate to severe levels of cognitive, physical and emotional symptoms, mostly depression. On the left is a specs these are spec scans, single photon emission, computerized tomography is on the left, healthy brain scan, and on the right, toxic brain scan. So you can see the difference. This was recently published in April of this year, and by the NIH on their website, and they go on to say that explain molds, finally, and asthma, allergic reactions, cognitive issues, mental health issues, immune effects, cancers. Okay? So all these come back and they discuss different impacts and worker safety. They also want to make sure you're talking about mold and not mildew. So they cited 16 studies as the basis. Number eight is a study that we published with a group of house published. It's a chapter in advances in applied microbiology, and this is the study, if anyone would like me to send them a copy, I'd be more than happy to provide your society with that.

Speaker 2  37:36
What did we show in this study? It was a population of 119 patients, 79 females and 40 males, and we had 20 controls. We obtained we did nerve conduction velocities for motor nerves and sensory nerves, and we found three groups, by the great majority, half, you know, 55 patients had mixed sensory and motor polyneuropathy. 17 had motor neuropathy only, and 27 had sensory neuropathy. So we showed that they do cause these problems and nerve damage, we also find how found high levels of ANA and central nervous system, myelin, myelin and peripheral nervous system, myelin, auto antibodies. I'll remind everybody that in the myelin are produced in the brain by oligodendrocytes, and in the peripheral nervous system, myelin is produced by Schwann cells. So we concluded that exposure to moles and their associated mycotoxins and water damaged buildings lead to multiple health problems involving the brain and the immune system, in addition to pulmonary side effects and allergies. So exposure to these initiates inflammatory processes. Let's look at ms, this study on multiple sclerosis, which is one of the most frequent and severe, demyelinating neurological diseases. It's an autoimmune disorder and affects young people, eventually leading to that or becoming disabled. In 2010 Rutgers medical school stated, we propose here that fungal toxins are the underlying cause of MS, and thus may offer an avenue toward an effective cure. And that is very true. And which mycotoxin causes the MS? It's Gliotoxin, and I'm going to show you information about Gliotoxin and moment. So in this study, they showed that Ms resolution by antifungal therapy compromises a strong evidence that supports fungi major contribution to this disease. And this is a study that were showed that 42 patients were identified this work, where they were these people worked, was known to have had 20 years of water intrusion, chronic dampness, mold growth, etc. Environmental testing confirmed the presence of airborne moral mold amplification in every room they tested, and they it was distributed by a contaminated HVAC system, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and that is one of the most common places that molds get in. We all know about air conditioning. They all have contained moisture, and that's where molds like to start growing. So 42 of the employees complained of neurological deficit. What do they mean by that? Memory loss, cognitive dysfunction, dizziness, abnormalities of executive function, headaches, visual disturbance and symptoms of numbness and weakness in the extremities. And those patients had signs of memory loss and cognitive dysfunction, etc. And they all had positive Romberg signs and ataxia, and they had positive MRI and PET scans that found demyelination in the brain. Here's a study that was published and where it showed that different brain regions, including the frontal cortex, cerebral hemispheres, entorhinal cortex, hypocampus, choroid plexus containing fungal material. This is a study done at autopsy of patients who had Alzheimer's, and the analysis of brain sections from 10 additional Alzheimer patients reveals that all are infected with fungi, and these fungal infections also were observed in the blood vessels. In this study, they actually had photographs of the molds in blood vessels. Parkinson's disease. Exposure to ochratoxin can induce early onset Parkinson's disease and other new neurodegenerative disorders. And by the way, what is the first symptom of Parkinson's disease? It's basically constipation. Another study on brain tissue with patients at autopsy who had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, als Lou Gehrig's disease, compelling evidence of fungal infection in the ALS patients analyzed. Here's another study on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It basically found antibodies and neurotoxins in blood, CSF, CNS, tissue samples from a large cohort of ALS patients. So this could be a opening into treatment of these patients. What about neuro psychiatric system, symptoms and immune process? 87 urinary mycotoxins were done on these patients, and there was nothing this was in children with autism spectrum disorder. However, serum IgG and IGE levels are more reliable index of long term exposure to mycotoxins, not urine. We'll get into that in a little bit. Let's look at another disease that sometimes is misdiagnosis, Lyme and all of us have heard about, you know, post line treatment and chronic Lyme and so on and so forth. So let's look at the medical evidence, symptoms and signs, what to look for, what what is at, what is the best, accurate test, and then the treatment, how to heal these folks with Lyme or mycotoxins? What are the symptoms and signs? Well, is it mycotoxins? Lymes, Bartonella, bobesia, they all have these similar symptoms, so we have to weave our way through and do the right test to find out, well, which of these caused the problem, and it causes and remember, pets get sick too from this. And I get emails from people who worry about their horses and, of course, their pets at home. Take a look at Babesia. What are the symptoms? High fever and chills, fatigue, headaches, muscle and joint aches, loss of appetite. That's a main one. Cough. How to diagnosis. You look at blood specimen under a microscope and you actually see the bebesia Parasites inside the red blood cells. It's simple examination with a microscope. What about martinello or Cat Scratch disease? What are the signs and symptoms? It's a low grade fever. There's enlarged, tender lymph nodes after one to three weeks after exposure to a cat, and more importantly, stray cats, more commonly than pets, and you get papules or pustules at the side of the scratch. And blood tests do not reliable, reliably differentiate among Bartonella species, and a positive test results may persist for years, even after effective treatment. So I see sometimes patients who bring repeated blood tests for Bartonella always positive, and then they always get treated. And I try to explain to doctors, don't treat the test result, treat the patient. What are the symptoms of Lyme it really originates from a tick bite, but the symptoms are due to the inflammatory process, and two people who are both bitten by the same tick carrying the bacteria that causes Lyme disease can respond very differently. So in this study, Lyme disease is caused by several species of Borrelia. We know that the now estimates that there are 500,000 new cases being diagnosed and treated for Lyme disease annually in the United States, 500,000

Speaker 2  47:19
it's an infectious disease that manifests primarily on the skin, nervous system and then the joints. So what is the first sign? It's a bullseye lesion, and that's in 70% of patients, which might be accompanied with non specific symptoms such as headache, fever, malaise, fatigue, myalgias, joint aches and pains, etc. Here is a classical bulls and I seen on a patient of mine. You can see he was bitten on the, on the on his left, leg and very classic bulls eye lesion. Now, if untreated, the infection might disseminate to other organs, including the heart, the joints, brain, Lyme, neuroborreosis, which results from the infection by Borrelia on the brain is the most common extracutaneous manifestation of Lyme disease, so skin and then brain. Infection of the brain is in about two to 4% of all cases of Lyme, neurobornosis, so it's not a very high percentage. What about children that get bit the most common manifestation is facial nerve palsy, and over half of the children and meningitis. Well, accurate testing makes a big difference. Well, there's 5 million Lyme tests ordered annually in the United States, and patients can have positive Lyme tests because of cross reactivity from other infections or inflammatory diseases and even previously treated Lyme disease. And many clinicians look for CO infections with Babesia and Bartonella, etc, but failed to look for mycotoxins. This was published 10 years ago, and continuing with the diagnostic evaluation positive blood test alone does not establish the presence of a Lyme infection. Blood testing should only be ordered if there is adequate clinical suspicion, first of active burialosis, and both IgG and IgM antibodies to Borrelia can persist for several years after a clinically healed infection. Again, don't treat the test result. Treat the patient, and it can be Borrelia antibodies can be found in five to 20% of normal individuals. That's why it's not a definitive, a positive. Here's a study from Johns Hopkins University that they were referred 1200 61 patients, 84% for this is for Lyme and 84% had no findings of Lyme disease, of active Lyme disease, so patients referred for consideration of Lyme disease for chronic symptoms deserve a very careful assessment for diagnoses other than the Borrelia infection. 84% folks. That means only 16% had Lyme. The other 84 did not. What are unsuitable tests for Lyme? Well, the antigen detection and bodily fluids, PCR, in either serum or urine, the lymphocyte transformation test or the enzyme linked immuno spot. Essay, well, that throws out the two very popular labs that people send, that people that doctors use to diagnose. Lam, also the VCs is useless, and the CD 57 positive, etc. That's also, what did this study come out? This study was done in Germany, where they took all the Lyme doctors and they decided to come up with four points. What are the symptoms? What are the signs on a physical examination? Which lab tests should you use and for? What is the treatment? Once they got this, all these land doctors in Germany got together and defined these four points. They sent it out to the heads of all the medical societies in Germany, the head of cardiology, obstetrics, pediatrics, dermatology, etc, etc. And when all these doctors agreed, they then sent it to the US to Austria for that the Austrians to do the same. When both the Austrians and the Germans agreed, they then decided to send it to the most precise country in Europe, the Swiss. And when the Swiss finished and put this all together, they came up with these unsuitable diagnostic test for Lyme Well, in a recent study, urine based PCR for Lyme disease was evaluated and shown to be insufficient for diagnosis. So don't use urine PCR. What is the most sensitive and accurate method for Lyme disease and other tick borne diseases, bassia, Ehrlichia Bartonella, it's the multi peptide test, and here's a comparison between Western Blot and the multi peptide Eliza testing. And number one, they both detect antibodies, but number two, the antigen used, represents spike rates found in human systems. No in western blot, but yes in the multi peptide ELISA test and look at the number 10 is the method subjective in western blood it is and multi peptide it is not. And of course, this is an easy way for you to see what is the benefits of each one of these two types of tests. So treatment, what is the most effective way to heal patients? Early Lyme, neurosis. How long is the treatment? Seven to 14 days. Now they looked at this, the chronic, atypical symptoms and the so called post treatment Lyme disease syndrome. They found that the therapeutic benefit of antibiotics for patients with persistent, non specific symptoms after a correct or incorrect diagnosis of chronic Lyme, bortolosis. In other words, patients with so called PTLDS, or PTLDS like symptoms, they looked at this and studied it and what they come up with the risk benefit analysis yields no scientifically supported reason to change the current recommendations of two to three weeks of antibiotic treatment for the typical patient with late or chronic Lyme disease or Lyme neuroborcusis, and then these findings from studies are substantiated by five clinical trials in the United States and Europe that failed to show any sustained amelioration or improvement of PTLDS with additional antibiotic therapy. And I see a lot of patients who've been on antibiotics two to three to four or five years intravenous multi doses of different kinds of antibiotics, etc, and they're still not well. So no lasting improvement was found in any trial. No benefit was found with respect to either two end points, fatigue and quality of life, and the chronic atypical symptoms and post treatment, Lyme disease syndrome, antibiotic side effects arose in all trials, all five of them in 25 to 43% of the patients. And what did these include diarrhea, of course, all these antibiotics, allergic reactions, cholecystitis, thromboembolism, gastrointestinal bleeding, and in three cases, the antibiotic complications were life threatening. So most patients who have Lyme disease respond well to antibiotic therapy and their disease resolves. And here was a study I published Lyme disease and microtoxicosis, how to differentiate between the two. You're going to be happy to send this to your Saudi and you can be happy to just send it, don't buy it and pay that money. I it's free from me now mycotoxins are toxic to all human beings even. On this showed, this is from published in this in the journal toxins, where they come prepared the

Speaker 2  57:22
urine to Eliza method to detect mycotoxins in human serum. Well, the Eliza method comes with significant accuracy, precision and specificity, and isn't that what all of us clinicians want? We want to know, is it accurate? Is it precise and is it specific? Have you ever wondered why the CDC doesn't recognize urine mycotoxin test and the FDA as well? First, it's not FDA approved. These labs aren't validated through the FDA standard process for diagnostic tests. Second exposure does not mean disease. The CDC points out that almost everyone is exposed to low levels of mycotoxins through food, corn, wheat, peanuts. I love peanut butter. So a positive result doesn't necessarily mean you're sick from it, basically, because it's found in parts per billion in some foods. What's a part per billion? I'm a visual. I asked a physics guy. I want you to show me what a part per billion is. He says, Well, take 1000 football fields and cover them with golf balls. Take one golf ball out. That's a part per billion. Number three, lack of standardization. Different labs use different cut offs, different methods and interpretations. This means that two tests on the same person could give different results, and what is their official warning, these tests can lead to misdiagnoses, unnecessary treatments and anxiety on the part of the patient. And this is from the CDC website, use of invalidated urine mycotoxin tests. And this is just by asking Google, you know, Mark urine, micro urine tests for my classes measure the levels of mold metabolites, not the mycotoxins themselves, but their metabolites, to assess potential exposure. And blood serum testing is considered more accurate for detecting my toxins exposure, as published studies have shown urine testing to be invalid. So here's a study that just came out in April of this year and looked at t2 toxins. Basically 80% of the time urine testing is inaccurate. And here's the oat test for gut health complete guide. This study showed that these popular organic acid tests claim to check imbalances in gut bacteria and fungi. Most of the microbial markers of these tests do not measure what they claim to that's why these urine tests are not accepted by the CDC and FDA. What is the most accurate and precise test? It's this IgG and IGE. And remember, these are molecules, not living organisms. We learned in microbiology that living organisms, bacteria, viruses, etc, we get a IgG memory to that particular pathogen. But in toxicology, toxins are molecules, H, G, A, S, mycotoxins, it means a current toxic reaction inside the body. And the IGE antibodies, when these hit the mast cells, they cause mast cell activation, causing the mast cells to release pro inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis alpha, interleukin six, interleukin 17, etc. Well, you measure these 14 mycotoxins, get IgG and igno 14 for a lab for 28 test results, and you got to retest after six months, not before. So what is the treatment? The first thing is the rule, first rule of toxicology, you get the patient away from the toxin, or you get the toxin away from the patient. So I want to bring you to supplements, because here's a couple of studies that recently came out. Well, they looked at 60 dietary supplements. They took them to the lab and tested them for what it says on the label and what is actually in the bottle. 11% of these 60 dietary supplement actually contain an accurate amount of the key ingredients listed on the label. 40% did not contain a detectable amount of the ingredients at all, 40% so when these people go to the stores or internet and buy supplements, we don't know what they're really getting. Now. What about heavy metals? This is 40 supplements tested for lead, arsenic, mercury, cadmium and pesticides, and they found trace amounts of one or more of these in 93% and then there's the botanical supplements, and they contained plant species not listed on the label. Additionally, active ingredient substitution was observed, and 83% of the companies tested. So we have to be very careful with supplements and the ones that patients take. So what is the basis of treatment for mycotoxins? Again, you you can't treat if the person is being constantly exposed. So if they're being exposed at work, at home, or at the gym, where they go through four times a week or whatever, etc. They gotta get away from there or have it remediated if it's in their home, otraconazole, 100 milligrams twice a day with food to get better absorption. And then there's eight specific supplements and vitamins at specific doses, and these are available at detox pure. Now, why do I mention this? Because detox pure was tested every single supplement and every single vitamin tested 100% pure, and that's what I want for my patients. Patients should also be on a low histamine, anti inflammatory nutritional diet. What about the effects of vitamin D supplementation on the inflammatory status and behavior symptoms of children with autism? And this was a double blind randomized clinical trial, so 43 autistic children, and they were allocated in two study groups of the vitamin d1. Received vitamin D in the control was that was 22 and 21 did not. And that went on for 15 weeks. At the end of 15 weeks, the serum levels of vitamin D and inflammatory indices, including tumor necrosis Alpha il 37 were measured at the start and end of the study both times. And what was found that the d3 levels significantly increased, while the inflammatory levels significantly decreased, and the total real life rating scale score and the intervention group significantly decreased. That's just one. Now here's a patient of mine that was had dementia. She is the wife of a dentist. A picture of her taken by her husband in October 2024 last year. And this is her in April 2025 she asked that her eyes not be blacked out, because she said, I want to see and show people that I'm alive again. Because before I was not alive, I didn't know who was what. I couldn't recognize my daughters. I didn't know who my husband was, etc. So that's what you can do with the correct diagnosis and the correct treatment. Let's look at the role of my toxins in these degenerative diseases in adults. As we mentioned, the t2 toxin is able to cross the blood brain barrier and accumulate in the brain. Glio toxin, which I mentioned in the study for multiple sclerosis done at Rutgers University, it increases if you give the patient glutathione. So don't give the patient glutathione or NAC if they have these brain issues. Now this is another interesting study, and the results of these study indicate that glutathione promotes Gliotoxin induced cytotoxicity, so it was supported 20 years ago.

Speaker 2  1:06:56
What about articonazole versus fluconazole, treatment for the prevention of fungal infections in patients? Again, this is an old study, 20 year old study, prophylactic fluconazole prevents candidiasis. However, it has no activities against mold. Remember, Candida is basically a single cell mold. All the others, such as Aspergillus, Penicillium, fusarium, Stachybotrys, are multi cell molds, and they all produce mycotoxins and Itraconazole provided better protection against invasive mold infections. So here's a chart that kind of simplifies all this. Remember that Candida being a yeast group, there's also brewer's yeast and and yeast is used for alcoholic beverages, that's brewer's yeast, and then there's the yeast used for breads, etc. There they don't work against the others, but odconazole works against not only Candida but all the others. That's why it's more effective now we have seen a number of studies that show that actual can also be used against cancer. Here's a study showing that it was, it's been was developed in the 1980s it's been used for over 30 years. Established safety record multiple phase two clinical trials investigating oconazole For non cell, non small cell lung cancer, prostate cancer and basal cell carcinoma have been completed, showing an increase in the progression free and overall survival of these patients. So let's take a look at a picture. On the left side is on the forehead of this this man. You can see this cancer growing out his forehead, 59 This is from that that study. Look at day 59 of Ozil. You can see how much it's cleared his cancer and just less than in two months. What about binders? That's a popular thing in Dr, Facebook and Dr Google, etc. Animal studies in pigs, rabbits, sheep, broiler chickens, ducks, turkeys, rats and mice show that binders can remove mycotoxins under certain precise laboratory conditions in these animals and laboratory obviously, however, there are no medical or scientific published studies to support their use in humans. What do studies actually show well that binders rely on the absorption of mycotoxins from the gut, preventing it from getting into the bloodstream. These include kaolinite, clays, activated charcoal, zeolite, etc. They're effective in neutralizing aflatoxin. Well, aflatoxin is not found in indoor spaces. It's found outdoors, growing on certain plants, etc. And these binders are ineffective in all other mycotoxins. In addition, they also bind vital vitamins as well as micro and macro and micro elements. What is meant by that, things like zinc, magnesium, etc. So what about food? This was a study published and showing and look at the last three lines. An adult weighing 170 pounds would have to have consume about 14 pounds of ready to eat oatmeal that that's rancid, of course, because it's contaminated, or 20 slices of bread at one time to have a toxic effect, because there's so little in them, or in the top paragraph, a two year old child weighs 28 pounds, would have to consume 38 ounces of oatmeal or four ounces of bread, or three and a half slices. So it's not from food. Now, here's what a clinician told me, like a Campbell, I'm, I was at the a forum conference in Las Vegas in December 2024, about 10 months ago, and he said, I'm, I gave a lecture, and then he wrote me that he was simply blown away with my knowledge base after hearing you me at a forum, he watched my videos and he he went, I wish I had met you years ago after getting sucked into the shoemaker Nathan vortex, at least going forward, I will be able to truly help my complicated patients. Now what else? Here's another clinician. I've never had the desire to study treatment from mold because of treatments for testing out there, from Shoemaker, etc. Have never convinced me in my nine years of practice, I've never really seen a patient go through that style of treatment and come out of the other side feeling better. I've been watching your videos on YouTube and get started on the paradigm. Now I will tell you, out of the 20 to 40 emails, I get a lot of these talk about the shoemaker and Nathan and all these treatments and tests that have no basis in medical science, remember, and God, we trust all others have to show data, and they don't have any data. Now, here's another healthcare provider on this last one, so recent came across my my collabs information, thanks for the help, and really liked the two YouTube videos. And knowing that my own family has been exposed, we are just recently had our blood serum test waiting for those results. As someone who has previously tried the holistic route, I can say for certain, it does not work. What is the holistic route that's not taking any medications, but taking herbals and supplements and vitamins? It doesn't work. It's not enough, and it's not specific. I have patients come see me, and they bring a shopping bag full of supplements and vitamins, etc. And they've tried all kinds of things over several years. It doesn't work now. This is from a patient and Facebook groups, and they get she writes that she gets very frustrating seeing the misinformation about mold, etc, spread by practitioners and mold sufferers in the Facebook mold groups. Yes, it's only anecdotal. It's not medical evidence. It's not scientific. It doesn't help people, but they get convinced by these groups to try this and that and the other, and eventually they stop using those things. I hope I want to encourage you to send me any emails to my email address at the top immune doctor@gmail.com and here's some studies that I wrote Dr Leonard Weinstock as a gastroenterologist from Washington University and School of Medicine in the twins in Missouri, and we wrote This study together mycotoxins, the brain, the gut and misconceptions. Dr Watson and I wrote about molds, mycotoxins, and they're affecting children's I mentioned the Lyme disease and mycotoxicosis before, before. And Dr desenna and I wrote the brain and mycotoxins. Dr vijdani of immunosciences laboratory, Dr Pollard, who's at UCLA, and I wrote environmental triggers of and autoimmunity and autoimmune diseases, and that included how the environment, including molds and mycotoxins, contribute to the development of autoimmunity. I know that there's some questions, and I'd like to take a moment to answer them. So binders take zinc and magnesium out of the body. That's what the medical evidence shows.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:18
Let me scroll up.

Speaker 2  1:16:25
I've often wondered whether certain politicians brains are being destroyed by some organism. You got it. It is. They are and

Speaker 2  1:16:40
the issue of foods, again, it's parts per billion. We get exposed to parts per billion and all kinds of things. Look at the shampoo you use. It's got 20 chemicals you can't pronounce. What about cleaning materials? What do people mop their floors with and wash their clothes in phosphates, etc? So we get exposed, but we our immune system reacts. It just he's it out. It gets rid of it. What about hepatocellular cancer in peanut butter? Again, there isn't a single case that shows that that came from peanuts in this country. The majority of studies relating cancers or other medical problems from foods or death are from the sub Saharan countries, Ghana, Ethiopia, etc, and from Western rural China. There's 43 signatories, countries, signatories to the minimizing the amount of mycotoxins to 10 parts per billion at most, and merci beaucoup and so glutathione promotes mold growth. No, we're not talking about molds. We're talking about mycotoxins. Mycotoxins glutathione makes Gliotoxin more cytotoxic. And when we talk about binders, I gave you the list of binders. These included these that you mentioned.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:33
And

Speaker 2  1:18:35
where can you find my books? My articles are all on in PubMed. No, I don't write. I only write books that are peer reviewed. They're textbooks. They're not popular. Books that you can write on Amazon? One of my patients wrote a book called, Are you moldy? Well, it's on Amazon, but it's not a peer reviewed chapter in a medical textbook such as the ones I've written. So no, don't rely on books like that. Can fasting be used against inflammation and mycotoxins. Unfortunately, there's no evidence that it does, and I'll be happy to send any articles I've written to your society, and Bill can distribute

Speaker 3  1:19:28
them as he likes. We can put on a website, or you still have all the video, your videos on your website. I was looking this

Unknown Speaker  1:19:40
just this past week. You still have those? Or did you make them private?

Speaker 2  1:19:47
I'll do it whatever way is best for all of you.

Speaker 3  1:19:50
Just let me know. Okay, if you let me know, we'll we'll put it on the website, and so everybody can have it, if that's okay with you,

Speaker 2  1:20:00
beware of the mixing things such as molds and mildew. So if you have plastic chairs and leave them outside, mildew will grow on them. You just wash them off with a little something, etc. But indoor molds are what produce mycotoxins. Okay? What can one eat or take to eradicate the mold and toxins? Well, I gave you the treatment. So essentially, it's four basic steps one, and it's the hardest one, and that is the one where you got to get the mold that's producing the mycotoxins out of there. Now that means remediating a home where there is a lot of problems, commonly the H of the AC system, air conditioning, also and northern parts of the United States, it's basements, because basements are chronically moist and etc, ozone. There's no evidence that ozone does anything to mycotoxins, or any evidence that plasmapheresis does anything to mycotoxins. So the four steps is, remember, get the patient away from the toxin, or the toxin away from the patient, but then you've got to treat them just because you get them out, you think that, oh, they'll get better because they're no longer exposed. Well, let's switch from mycotoxins to Mercury. Say, all of us work in a lab and there's mercury and Mercury fumes, and we get sick and we get toxic from mercury. Just leaving the lab means we won't get more and that means that you have to chelate the mercury out because it's heavy metal. Otherwise, you can move to New Zealand, it'll still be in you remember, these are molecules. Otraconazole kills the spore that carries the mycotoxins. Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites of spores. So you kill the spore, you kill the source of the mycotoxin, and you take that 100 milligrams twice a day. How long? In medical textbook, it says anywhere from 12 to 18 months. But if you get the patient away from the toxin A or clean the place up and use the O, the eight specific vitamins and supplements at their specific doses, why specific? Because that's what's shown in the medical literature to work. You know, if it says, Take, I don't know, take any vitamin you like, B complex? Should you take this much or that much? It says, The study shows specific amounts. So that's why it has to be specific also, and it's the combination of that that works. And lastly, you can't be eating Pringles and drinking Coke while watching TV. You have to clean up your nutrition and be on an anti inflammatory, low histamine nutritional plan. Otherwise, that also helps improve the person. That's why it only takes, not what the books say, 12 to 18 months, but six months. And this is with 35 years I've been doing this. So I've tried it all. You know, in the beginning, 35 years ago, I didn't know that much about actual hours, and the only supplements around were one a day vitamins, you know. So I tried this and tried that and tried the other, because there were no, no studies how to clean up the home I'm that is not my expertise. I am expertise on how to clean up the body. I'm not an expert in how to do the home. I give that to people who are building engineers and and whatever they know. I'm treating, being treated with ozol. My office building is mycotoxic. Can I go in once in a while without terrible effects or recontamination? Well, these, again, are, are two to four microns thick. So even if you use a double canister breathing device they're going to get into that. And you, you find mycotoxins. And 50% of the buildings I you enter, remember, it's not due to the environment. In other words, it's not due to a rainy or jungle. I've, I've seen lab tests on antibodies from patients and Cambodia and Panama, where it's, you know, it's basically a jungle environment. I've seen them from Phoenix and Arizona. I've seen them from Dubai. When you leave Dubai, you're in the desert, there's none, no vegetation whatsoever. It's like, you know, Lawrence of Arabia. So it's construction. It's the construction problems because, and this, for example, here I live in Florida, I've seen apartment buildings go up in six, seven months, and I see that material sitting outside while the construction is going on and it rains on it well, so really it's the construction. Now, how you found 50% wow, I don't know how what testing you used, but anyway, the what is the low histamine? Dot, again, that's best asked of a nutritionist. There's a list of low histamine of foods, etc, no Clorox. Clorox, basically is 92% water. So what you do with when you clean up something with Clorox is you drive the mold further into the wall or the drywall or etc, and 50% of the time you can't see the mold. It's in between walls, or it's behind the tiles or et cetera. Today, homes have 234, bathrooms, each one of those, my refrigerator spits out ice and cold water, etc. It's hooked to a water I've never pulled my refriger out to see what's behind it. What about I've never pulled my washer and dryer out to see if there's a leak. But I do have my my home checked every two to three years, promotes just to be on the safe side, and every time I've been Okay, so in the chat, I've got a couple more chats testosterone. Well, one of the mycotoxins my micro lab tests for is zero unknown. And in men, my zero unknown drives testosterone to almost nothing. It's basically a, you know, it's a highly estrogenic compound and and in women, it changes the balance between estrogen and progesterone. And in children and little girls, you can find, I've seen patients, little girls who are six years old, who have fully developed genitalia with hair, etc, and they're menstruating because that causes premature puberty. And women who are in women, it produces early onset of menopause. After treatment, will a person become less sensitive to mycotoxins. What my patients tell me is when they go into a building, a home, a restaurant, a shop, somebody's apartment, and it has mold within five to 10 minutes, they say, I've got to leave

Speaker 2  1:28:42
Clorox destroy mold and vinegar again. There's nothing that says that. And Clorox again is 92% water. And really it should be left up to professionals to do that. If you can smell mold when you walk into a building, should you leave molds produce what are known as VOCs, volatile organic compounds, and that's that moldy, musty smell. So if you got leave, I and, you know, I have patients who got sick because they worked in a antique store, for example, antique furniture store, the smell doesn't relate to which mold is there, etc, because all indoor molds, all toxic indoor molds, produce volatile organic compounds, and all volatile organic compounds are neurotoxic. I even have a textbook on volatile organic comp tech, volatile organic compounds and neurotoxicity. So all those will indicate that these molds that grow indoors are dangerous. Hi, okay, many teachers schools are notorious for having mold growth and teachers and students get sick dorms in universities and colleges. Also, I've seen it all, you know, over 35 years and more than, Gosh, 20,000 patients I've treated, yes. So again, I think that these are all very dangerous substances. And in Connecticut, if there's mold in a school, the teacher can get workman's comp, for example. That's one state that recognizes it, and now that, since April of this year, the NIH put up, put this about mold on their website that I showed you, it's being more and more recognized by the US government and the NIH as being causing problems. They wanted to bury their head in the sand before that, even with the overwhelming medical evidence from studies.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:17
And if you want to know the the the the laboratory for the best test for

Speaker 2  1:31:30
for Lyme disease, that's immuno Sciences Laboratory. Yes, there is. If there's even a small amount of mold in the in the vents of an air conditioning system, the people in that home will be constantly exposed to mold spores, and this happens in student bedrooms. You know in public buildings that there was a study done and published in the New England Journal of Medicine about that. What about HBot? I have a good friend who wrote the book on who does HBot treatment, he's known as being, publishing a lot of studies and even a book on this, Dr Paul harsh in Louisiana and New Orleans.

Unknown Speaker  1:32:31
Well, he says

Speaker 2  1:32:35
it helps a little, but it doesn't really get rid of mycotoxins. HBot, does apple cider vinegar diluted in water help if one drinks it, coffee is often full of mold. Well, coffee and where we get it from, as long as it's not from the sub Saharan African area or Western rural China, doesn't have toxins or mold in it, because it can only contain 10 parts per billion or less. For example, all milk sold. This is the milk that you buy at the supermarket. And as you know, it's all that 91% contains anywhere from one to four mycotoxins. But you don't see kids eating their their cereal with milk dropping on the floor. So it's again, you pee it out. All kinds of food can grow mold once you leave them out. If you take an apple and leave it out on the kitchen table or kitchen area for a week, yes, it's going to get moldy. So are vegetables. So when I took my youngest to college, one wall next to his bed was covered with mold, so I know exactly what you mean by having it in college dormitories, not at all unusual. So when, if you have pasteurized milk that contains one to four mycotoxins, again, you're going to excrete that through urine. You're not going to it's not going to affect your health. It's parts per billion. We get rid of parts. Think of what you inhale when you go to a conference. And no, it's not pure detox. It's detox pure.com. Reverse the two words, detox, pure. Anyway, when you go to a conference, what do you think? How often is the carpeting in that conference room cleaned, et cetera, and you're breathing it. You're sitting there for a weekend or several days, several hours every day, etc. What about hotel rooms when you go to a conference, etc? You may breathe these in, but it's very low in amounts. It's only when you have real mold growth that you get sick. Now, if you go to a very cheap motel somewhere on the beach that's been there for 50 years, and it's got the air conditioning system and these wall units that have been there for that long, I wouldn't stay in one of those. Any other questions I can

Speaker 3  1:35:47
answer for you, How you holding up? Dr Campbell, okay. Dr Nario, do you have any online questions,

Speaker 6  1:35:55
email questions? Yes, yeah. Doctor Campbell, it was a pretty good discussion. So we have, we have a crowd here of doctors in the Philippines, actually. So one of their questions here is, actually, well, this is something unrecognized. I practiced there also, and there's a lot of clinicians who needs education about mycotoxins and mold illness as well. It's just that, I think their question is, is that something that you have encountered before, especially in Southeast Asia, a lot of and you did mention that you did see patients from outer out of the country as well. So they were wondering, is Southeast Asia or the Philippines something that's going to be prone I'm assuming I already know the answer to this question, but let's hear it from you, and maybe based on your experience as well.

Speaker 2  1:36:48
You know each you gotta as you know, and you do this in your practice, you've got to evaluate each patient. And a lot of these people come in with vague symptoms, as we said in the in the program tonight, and you've got to differentiate between what they have. For example, mycotoxins and women are known to cause endometriosis. And you go to a normal practicing OB, GYN, and they don't know that it's not taught by their societies. And really, I do a lot of reading. And as part of my reading is because I'm editor in chief of firm medical journals. I gotta read all I get submissions all all day long. And, and that's why I bring these studies, because it's a it tells you and, and you can look up at the end of each all the references, because these are all heavily referenced. None of these studies just have, you know, half a dozen or even a dozen references have many, many more, and that information is all in the medical literature. It's not, it's not somewhere hidden or unknown. Unfortunately, a lot of clinicians don't have the luxury of time to read studies, and this is why I go and give lectures at conferences, and I teach at faculty at two medical schools, and I don't teach the students. I teach faculty. And you know, some of them look at me like they got, you know, deer in the headlights. Look, wow, I didn't know that. And again, I refer them to the medical literature. Why? Because it's all there. It's been studied. This is these things here have been studied that I've shown you have been studied since the 1980s that's

Unknown Speaker  1:38:52
40 plus years, right?

Speaker 2  1:39:00
I'd recommend some reading if you want just what I have here that'll give you a taste, and again, I'll make this available whatever way. Doctor Bill says, and post them wherever you'd like, so that you can all have easy access to them.

Speaker 6  1:39:23
Yeah, and just to can add to that understanding that mold I have a lot of patients that has this misconception that they're going to live in Arizona or Las Vegas, just because it's so hot, they don't have to deal with mold. The only thing, as you mentioned a while ago, what you need is wood and water. And once you expose two together for 2448, hours, as they grow, that's when trouble brews up for you. So anywhere in the world, you can definitely have a problem. And you said mention all you. You also mentioned Dubai a while ago. So the everybody thinks it's at the desert, and they won't have any issues about it. But those are, again, going back to the Southeast Asia. We have a lot of flooding there, and you will hear here in Houston, New Orleans, they have so many issues, especially after a hurricane or typhoon. So it's definitely a problem anywhere you go, not only in in rainy and snowy weather,

Speaker 2  1:40:16
we that there's this issue going around the world. We read about her all the time in the news about flooding, about hurricanes, tropical storms, etc. We just saw this week in the news Afghanistan and Pakistan and Baluchistan got hit by floods, et cetera. All those things will promote mold growth in poorer countries where it is a much it's a real difficult problem, and part of the problem is, is that governments don't want to spend the money. There's even studies that say this is a public health problem. God forbid, if the government starts doing anything in healthcare, they do enough damage as it is. Let me answer a question here, is there a possibility a worsening of patients symptoms at the beginning of treatment with otra carazole, if you combine the treatment, the only time there is worsening of symptoms is two things. One, otraconazole is a generic medication. Generics are made in India and China, and sometimes a batch comes out that's not that good on patients. That's hard to feel bad once their symptoms, once they start getting treated, I switch them to spornox, main brand. The other cause for patients feeling worsening of symptoms is that they're still in a moldy environment where there's molds producing mycotoxins. Those are the only two cases I've seen over the last several decades,

Speaker 6  1:42:06
and one of the controversial testing. And as you said, you're not a home environmental specialist, but one of the things that we encounter a lot, or I see in patients, is petri dish testing. What are your comments on that? And is that something definite to tell that your home, or the place that you're in is filled with mycotoxins or more,

Speaker 2  1:42:32
the Tatiana you you have a patient develop shortness of breath. So I would again just change to spernox Amphotericin B is a very weak antifungal.

Unknown Speaker  1:42:52
So

Speaker 2  1:42:53
what do you do? Study published by Dr punikau, Chairman of the Department of ear, nose and throat surgery at the Mayo Clinic, he had 210 patients who had chronic sinusitis. He cleaned out their sinuses and sent the material to the lab and asked them to identify what is the common pathogen that's causing this problem in the 210 patients, the lab came back with 96% mold. He petitioned the ear, nose and throat surgery society to change the term chronic sinusitis to chronic fungal sinusitis the and what was the treatment he gave these patients to clear them up? It was Amphotericin B nasal spray and otraconazole. I would say about 90% of my patients do fine on ultraconazole. But there's that 10 patients, 10% that don't, and I switched them to Sporanox, and then they get then their symptoms abate. So and Dr panacao study was published in 1999 so it's 26 years old, so we've known about that. Where do you get spornox? You get it at the drugstore. Yes, pharmacist, and you can give intranasal Amphotericin B, but that's only going to get rid of the local sinus problem. It's not going to be it's not going to be systemic. Again, spornox is, is just the brand name. It's a regular prescription. Any side effects from spernox? Yes. Major side effect is that the patient, after a month or two, will start feeling better. Yeah, and why did Dr ponic out take these 210 patients because their chronic sinusitis is the bread and butter of these Ear, Nose and Throat specialists, because they come in they've got chronic sinusitis, they give them antibiotics and a decongestant and two, three months later, they're back again. Why? Because what he found in his study is that when you inhale these spores, and we know since the 80s that spores are cause inflammation, they're inflammatory. They land on the mucous membranes in the sinuses. And the mucous membranes, how do they react to this inflammatory, irritating material? They make more mucus. What happens with the extra mucus? Bacteria comes along and lands on top of it. Below is all the micro the amount the spores and the mycotoxins, but on the surface, it's the the bacteria. That's why short treatment with antibiotics work, and that's what part of what he published in his study on why do in some patients for a certain period of time, my decongestants and antibiotics work, but in the long run, we know from this study, and this study has been replicated several times by other medical centers as well, and published it's that they this indicates this is a colonization in the sinuses. And if you have a patient that has symptoms as well as chronic sinusitis, that combination of Amphotericin B and oconazole or spornox works to get it rid of it in the body, because if it's in the nasal sinuses, what these micro Toxins will do, they'll go up through the cribriform plate of the of the skull and get into the the brain that way. That's very easy and very close distance,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:15
anatomically. So

Unknown Speaker  1:47:19
using both clear clears it up nicely.

Speaker 3  1:47:27
Dr Campbell, on your on your lab report, there's 14. I believe it's 14. Now, different types of mycotoxins you test for

Speaker 2  1:47:38
yes, so it's 14 Iggs and 14 IGES. And plot right? You've got a free, complimentary, uh, Zoom call with me to go over the test results. Okay, so anyone who orders it, it's that we and we can discuss anything we want during that time. And by the way, just so folks understand, do not use the ErmI test. It was, it was developed by the EPA, and in nine in 2013 they said it was developed for an experimental test. Do not use it. It's not a good test, but it's very popular on the internet.

Speaker 3  1:48:18
Okay, so my question is, on with all the all the mycotoxins that you're testing, the ones that come up positive, are there specific treatments for each one of those? Do we do differently or or are we just looking at as a whole? It's, either a yang or night.

Speaker 2  1:48:36
One mycotoxin can come from several different molds. So what you do is you kill the mold spore and get rid of all 14 when patients, when I'm sorry, clinicians, repeat the test at six months. It's all the way down next to nothing, because that shows you the treatment worked okay. And again, I go through all this during the

Speaker 3  1:49:06
Zoom call with clinicians. So my next question is, so I you know, you know, we've been over here. We've been big fans of yours, and we follow you closely. I get a lot of return from insurance company. The patients turn in the iatricoconazole prescriptions, and we get back. This is experimental. We're not paying for it. This is unnecessary. And again, and then, you know they're not paying for it. I'm sure you must have come across this somewhere, in some way or another. How do you handle that?

Speaker 2  1:49:45
The studies showing how the antifungals work were published in the early 2000s and there's a number of publications since then, but they started like in, I'm sorry, not the early 2000s in the 1990s 30 years ago, the studies showing That octricconazole is an effective treatment. These are published studies. I didn't invent this. I have to read somewhere.

Speaker 3  1:50:17
No, I, I'm, you know, you're preaching to the choir here. But, you know, it's send, send us a letter of medical necessity. This is experimental. I mean, that's, that's the that's what I get. That's what we get here.

Speaker 2  1:50:28
Anyway, experimental, I would send them copies of the studies. Send them two or three studies.

Speaker 8  1:50:34
I have a quick question. This is a really great lecture, Dr Campbell, in terms of the detox pure website, what supplements would be good for the more mycotoxins,

Speaker 2  1:50:53
what they do is they make a kit with all eight supplements and vitamins at those specific doses, so the patient gets a two month supply in a box and with all the directions on how to take them and when to take them and all that kind of stuff. So before, years ago, I used to have to tell patients, well, go to this website and get this one, and go to that website and get that one. And then the patient would email me back and say, Well, I went to that website, but there's this one or that one. Which one should I get? And I was answering all these emails. So finally, these people came up with the right combination, and you're then the patient. My patients get a box at home delivered to their front door, and it's got everything that you need in it, and that makes my job as a clinician a lot easier. I don't have to worry.

Speaker 8  1:51:50
Yeah, so giraldenon is a big one that grows in grains, and it looks like worldwide, we do have fusarium in all these grains that is producing the zerolin on is it the reason why farmers are using the pre harvest roundup spray to try to harvest the crops faster than the fusarium does not grow in the grains. I think that's my explanation, because I thought in the Midwest, the farmers if they leave their crops on the farm too long it rains on it, and when it rains on it, the fusarium grows in it and then produced the Israeli run. So they wanted to get around it, so they start doing the pre harvest roundup spray.

Speaker 2  1:52:42
So what I would recommend Dr Benoit is, if you go to my micro labs YouTube channel, I have 40 videos there showing every aspect of what we've talked about, and a lot of other things too. We didn't talk that much about other areas that, like, for instance, we didn't talk we didn't mention too much about cancers or autoimmunity. But these will have pictures of before and after. So you see your patient a picture of a patient before they started treatment with, say, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, etc, and then you show them six months later, and their skin is clear and there's no rheumatoid arthritis, and rheumatologists faint when I show them that, as well as dermatology. And this question here, patients can order the test on their own. Yes. Is

Unknown Speaker  1:53:47
there another question? Dr Benoit,

Speaker 8  1:53:50
no, I know. I think this is great. That's good.

Speaker 3  1:53:54
Thank you. You know what I didn't do was I didn't give you the go ahead. Dr nary I didn't do the CME thing.

Speaker 6  1:54:01
Go ahead. Oh yeah, that's fine. Because I think what Dr Benoit was asking, because I kind of know the protocol. Dr Campbell, think magnesium, probiotics, you have Phosphatidylserine there. So these are just for CME. We're putting out the non branded supplements that he likes, but I think you do have this in your detox box, as you said,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:29
Okay, very good.

Speaker 2  1:54:33
One of the substances, let's take probiotics and studies by Dr Simon cutting at Reading University in London. He took the typical probiotics, Bifidobacterium and lactobacilli, and the tests on him and showed that over 90% of those bacteria die in the stomach from the pH. And so he said that if over 90% it's he said it's dead bacteria therapy. However, he then looked at what does go and get through the acidity, the low pH in stomach, and go to the gut and start producing a good microbiome. And he found that spore forming bacilli do that, and there's five of them. So that study led me to use a spore forming bacilli instead of the usual, you know, lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium. And by the way, this, this company tells you, Well, ours has this many colony forming units. And another company will, I'll say, well, ours has 10 times more colony forming units, etc, etc. There's no studies that show it makes any difference, right?

Speaker 6  1:55:54
And then I think you prefer a long acting magnesium as well,

Speaker 2  1:55:58
90 plus percent on the stomach. And why? Because the acidity of stomach is part of our night immune system. If you have small if you've seen small children crawling all over the floor and putting everything in their mouth, they don't get sick from that. Why? Because those bacteria go to the stomach and they get killed by the acidity. It's part of our innate immune system. So swarm forming bacilli and double blind, placebo controlled randomized trials have shown that they actually form a very good microbiome in the gut. The other part of that is asking your patient, are they? Did they? Were they born naturally or by cesarean section? Why? If a child is born naturally, Brucella is not one of them. If, if a child is born naturally, the first thing that happens to the mom is the water breaks. That water contains acidophilus, and that coats the birth canal, including the outer part of the women's genitalia, to kill off any potential Candida that usually can reside in majority of women. So the first bacteria in baby's mouth are mother's bacteria, and that starts the microbiome and the mother, the mother's milk the first three days is colostrum, which carries antibodies to protect the baby, as well as an oligosaccharide that the baby's stomach cannot digest. That oligosaccharide goes on to the gut to start feeding that starting microbiome. Now in babies born by C section, the first bacteria in that baby's mouth are from instruments or hospital personnel. So these babies tend to have more problems with allergies, etc, as they're growing up, and they don't have a very good microbiome. So this is why giving them a spore forming bacilli helps these kids from C sections develop that now let's say your your patient is an adult, 3040, 50 year old person. You've got to go back and look at their microbiome and and you have to know which test to use, not the wrong one, and see how their microbiome is helping them if they're born by C section. These are some of the things I cover in my videos, but I just did not have enough time to do it here.

Speaker 6  1:58:45
Well, just to give them an overview of your protocol, you like phosphate, I think melatonin, nitric oxide, some vitamin D complexes, fish oil and vitamin C. So you'll see it all that in his in his videos, as he kind of gets into the brand name, also, and the spore biotic that he was

Speaker 2  1:59:04
mentioning. So people think that melatonin is to help sleep. But what studies published, studies from the University of Texas to San Antonio branch have shown how it helps remove toxins from the brain, including mycotoxins. So it's yes, it promotes sleep. Now let's look at a microbiome that's not healthy. We know that, for example, we have so many amino acids, and that a chain of amino acids makes a protein. You know, amino acids are the brick and the house is the is the protein. Well, if there's a few essential amino acids, one of them being tryptophan, which you get from red meat, etc. If you don't have a good microbiome that l tryptophan usually will make help the gut make neurotransmitters. These neurotransmitters include the processing of tryptophan to make serotonin, and from serotonin derive melatonin. But when your microbiome is not well balanced, you're not going to make serotonin, which is our happy neurotransmitter, and you're not going to make melatonin. So these people are depressed and they don't sleep well. You some doctors like to use 60 milligrams. Well, again, I want to see the medical literature that says 60 milligrams did X, Y and Z. I have the I have the medical literature that shows that three milligrams did it. So, yeah, some, some docs will use whatever is popular. I don't believe in popular. I believe in medical evidence.

Speaker 1  2:01:03
Thank you. Anything else? Dr Mario, no, I think we got a good dose of Dr Campbell, today,

Speaker 3  2:01:11
exactly as always. I know you're going to be at ammg in November, November 12 to 16th, and probably a 4m you're usually a regular there. And anything else coming up for you,

Speaker 2  2:01:28
I'll be at some of the conferences that you go to, and I'll see you there, and

Speaker 3  2:01:32
we'll have dinner together. Okay, make sure that. Make sure your wife picks out a good Russian restaurant, by the way. So, okay, okay, sounds great. Okay, so you know they're, they're well known for that in Salt Lake City, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:01:47
Yes, sir, I'll see you

Speaker 3  2:01:48
there. Okay, okay, next week we have Anthony Lewis, who's going to be speaking to us about a bias of AI in medicine, so something a little bit different, not clinical, really, but interesting, interesting discussion nonetheless. I know Dr Tano, I know that's one of your bailiwicks also so.

Speaker 8  2:02:19
Dr James, Dr Anthony, James, who is gonna sorry

Unknown Speaker  2:02:23
I had a little

Speaker 3  2:02:25
I had a little accident here, and I wrecked my my desk, water and all my, all of my scheduling kind of got, got a little messed up. And so yes, Anthony James, I apologize. So okay, and and we're moving along. I know we haven't gotten the official

Bill Clearfield  2:02:54
literature out for our little get together that we're planning December, 4 to sixth in Reno. But keep it in mind. We'll, we'll have an online component if you can't make it. I know it's short notice, and we should be able to get 20 CME credits, ama, the AOA, I think I'm giving up one, so

Speaker 3  2:03:16
I'll try, but I doubt it so, but we'll try anyway. So next week. Dr, Anthony James. Dr, Campbell, thank you so much as always, and maybe we can lean on you to be online for us one of those days for an hour to enlighten us a little bit more, where the gangs getting back together for a sort of a we

Bill Clearfield  2:03:44
haven't been together. We haven't done a live show our group in three years. So it's about time, you know? Dr, now narrows itching to get in front of a stage and perform. So Okay, anybody else have any comments or questions? I'll have the video up as soon as I can. Usually it takes me 24 to 48 hours. And Dr, Campbell, if you want, I'll get the participant contacts to you, and remember, all of our videos are on aosrd.org, or on YouTube. It's on Clearfield Medical Group. There two ama CME credits.

Speaker 3  2:04:26
It's always the same here, www.eds.com dot slash em and in this week's is 11, 4485, and I always put it in the in the weekly email, also $50 which we get nothing but $50 to AMA, CME credits. And so if you need CME credits, you know, go, go for that. Okay, that's about it. Anybody else have anything? Dr Quinn, Dr Tano, you have anything from the research group? Thank you, everybody questions. Thank you, Doctor, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:05
We're here every Tuesday.

Speaker 3  2:05:07
Take care. Thank you. Every Tuesday, at five o'clock our time, eight o'clock your time, you're always welcome.

Speaker 4  2:05:16
Dr Quinn, any anything? Yeah, I gotta. I got a quick update. I'm trying to get Tanner to jump in, but he's not going to do it. Yeah, just real quick, the minute update that we have. Dr Burgess and Dr Tano started a discussion about us, which I would consider our phase three. We've been through a couple of phases which would take place after the December conference, talking about putting together a podcast, type of situation, you know, with a lot of the information, and it's research based, as Dr Burgess always said, the apothecary paperwork is set to be completed by the end of September, 1 week of October, which is good, then we'll be up and going. We're working with Ronnie Shino, the FDA manufacturer who wants to also participate in the tribal apothecary. You mentioned, Dr James. Dr Anthony. James. I'm not sure what people know about him, or will know about him, but he has an entire school accredited by the state of Florida, the degrees in which he gives. And when people are graduates of the program that he and Dr Tano put together, they become they're automatically allowed to become certified tribal healers, and Dr glavinovich, who participates with us periodically, is set to open two clinics, one in Texas and one in the Caribbean, and he's offered to have some of our students, especially Dr James's students, go down there and learn. So that's, that's the the major thing of the week here.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:53
Okay, great, okay. Dr, Tanner, you

Speaker 8  2:06:55
got anything to add? No, I think. Dr Quinn said it all so

Speaker 3  2:07:00
I know you're I know. I know you're so shy you never like to talk. Okay, all right. Any anybody, John, you got anything you still on

Speaker 5  2:07:11
John? Dr Quinn and Tanner are taking care of the research committee in a beautiful way, and we are going to be getting some more things going on the internet and and the apothecary, which is a big, big, big deal, should be happening within, what, a month or two.

Speaker 4  2:07:30
Yeah, it seems as though as long as we can push Doctors of any judge, Ben, as we call him, nd, tribal judge, to make sure that the paperwork is all set up with ein numbers and all of that, the First Nations Medical Board will be overseeing it. And the the tribal nations actually can issue eins and all of that. So remember what we always say it's like a like a whole different country if you're practicing under the auspices of the tribal sanctity.

Speaker 8  2:08:00
One thing that I would like to add is, if anyone in this group, Dr theophys group, is interested in getting a licensing from the First Nation medical board, that should get a hold of us. So then we can see how that can happen, because then there can be protected people who do functional medicine, a lot of them are targeted. If you do something, then they will come after you. So this puts you in a good light. So then you can protect yourself if you prescribe in certain things that people can see as not conventional.

Speaker 5  2:08:41
Half of our half of our work, or most of our work, has been political and legal, not really medical. We have the doctors who knows what's going on, but making it work within the programs we have is a little bit complicated, but we have the judges and the brains to do it, especially Dr Tanner and Dr Quinn.

Speaker 3  2:09:03
Yeah, we tried doing it. We tried to hit the conventional rule. You saw what happened there?

Speaker 5  2:09:09
Yeah, we won awards. We won awards, but they showed us down. That's why

Speaker 3  2:09:15
we're we have the last, the last 2o meds, which is the AOA scientific invention, where they have 5000 do show up. We were, we were the third highest attended sub specialty group. They're the only ones higher were internal medicine and family practice, and we were third, and they shut us down. They said we weren't scientific enough. We weren't scientific. So what are you

Speaker 5  2:09:45
going to do? We're dealing with we're dealing with the politics, but in an original way. I don't think anything has ever happened like this. The first tribal nation is the independent sovereign nation of Native Americans, and they have different rules. And we happen to have a few doctors and a judge who are the primary people in that so they're working really hard to make it easy for us. That's the whole point.

Speaker 3  2:10:09
So if, if, if some of us are interested in this, Dr Tanner, we get

Speaker 8  2:10:13
in touch with you. I can get in touch with Dr Quinn or myself, and then we can go

Speaker 3  2:10:20
from there. All right. There you go, okay, all right. And then Dr Nario is just, just as an aside, you're the, you're the vice president of the Nevada homeopathic Medical Board, and same, you know, kind of, you know, theme anyway, right? Yeah.

Speaker 6  2:10:41
So I am actually a member of the tribal healing band, so I know what they're talking about, and this is something that we're pursuing now. Dr Quinn is part of the board. So some collaboration definitely is up in the horizon with this. But we are definitely in big support. It seems like there's a big bunch of these practitioners here in Nevada that will definitely is also part of the homeopathic licensees. So we definitely have a good backup for you here when you guys, of course, need

Speaker 3  2:11:15
help. If you are here, the December meeting, Will, we're going to be granting what, 20 credits for the homeopathic licenses also. So it's a must do. And I actually one other thing. I You don't know this yet, I heard from Dr Fung, who went on a cruise today. So he's the, he's the president of the homeopathic medical board. He asked if we wanted ACLs course during our, our our conference also. So I wanted to ask you about that. So we might need that added an extra half day

Speaker 6  2:11:52
for that people needs to renew. I think that's what His purpose is like for his staff, for example. But there are people, practitioners out there who needs a renewal. So I think that's what

Speaker 3  2:12:03
it is. So, yeah, if you're, if any, if you're all interested in ACLs, I think we, you know, we have, we have an opportunity to offer that also during the during our conference. So, so all the more reasons that showed up. Show up in Reno So,

Speaker 6  2:12:16
and also October four to six, I'll be in Austria. Somebody's going to go there. There's an integrative medicine conference. So join us over there. And when is this? October four to

Unknown Speaker  2:12:28
six, okay, are they going to have an online,

Speaker 6  2:12:31
um, I have to look, but find out. Anybody who wants to go to Australia, Austria, hey, let's see each other there.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:37
You know, you know me. I stay home.

Unknown Speaker  2:12:41
Get out. Get out of your spot.

Speaker 3  2:12:44
Stefan was so hot gung ho on this thing in England in June. And then we got there, he was so disappointed. And I, you know, I did a thing just, just at home.

Speaker 6  2:12:57
So we were talking about meeting each other. Now, right? The gang is all back to see each other, so you went

Speaker 3  2:13:05
out there, went around with the old gangs, though. So, so I'm trying to find, see if I can get Dr McCullough to come. So I'm trying to, Oh, nice. That'll be great, yeah. So I don't know, you know he's, he's become more of a big shot than he already No, no good shots. That's what got his first place.

Speaker 5  2:13:23
Dr McCulloch was our nail in the coffin. When we had, we had him talk. They had to shut

Speaker 3  2:13:29
down a week. Yeah, yeah. We, yeah. Dr Fung had had private security guards planted in the audience just in case he was so worried he was so hurt. Dr McCullough showed up by himself, right? And Bruce has all these, all these guys that you know dressed as doctors that you know in the audience. Hey.

Speaker 5  2:13:54
Well, how many of our friends have died? Suspiciously, suspiciously,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:01
your friends?

Speaker 5  2:14:02
Yes, okay, all right, okay, but I'm gonna say there's a need for security. There's a need for, you know, protecting these people who are telling the truth. So I hope we keep doing that. All right, yeah, yes.

Speaker 9  2:14:25
Dr nadio, how do you? How do you? What is the website for the conference?

Speaker 6  2:14:32
Okay, I'm gonna, put it on the chat. Okay, thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:14:40
I don't think I will go. But

Unknown Speaker  2:14:43
are you from there?

Speaker 9  2:14:45
No, but I went one time at the conference before I went to residency, I shadowed with Dr Anand ochronology, and I went for a merc conference. They were doing research in he was doing research, clinical research, and I was a research coordinator. And from there, I went home. I mean, I went to my mom, because she's like, two hours from there with

Speaker 6  2:15:07
the train. Nice, nice. And this is headed by Dr Rao. He is the claims doctor of RFK. So there's, there's a lot of roots behind this conference in relation to integrative medicine, but it's the European style, something different. We always see the US version of this. But do we want to get a taste of a different flavor of integrative medicine Europe also brings a lot to the table.

Speaker 9  2:15:33
Well, actually, where I'm from, it was part of Austria Hungarian empire. It was part of the, I'm from, the western part of Romania. That part was called Banat. Was part of the one

Speaker 1  2:15:47
country one time. All right, let's go pack

Speaker 3  2:15:50
your bags. Here we go. Okay, well, thank you all. Thank you. Dr Nario, and we'll see you all next week, same time, same station. Dr Quinn, I'm going to need Dr James's contact. I don't have it, so

Unknown Speaker  2:16:05
send that. Okay, I'll email it

Speaker 3  2:16:07
to you. Oh, I will be away next week actually, so I'll try and check in. I'm going to see the grandkids, so I will be, I will be in a foreign, foreign, foreign environment. So Okay, everybody, thank you all so much, and we'll see you again next time. Anything else. Good night. Good night, everybody. You.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai