Unknown Speaker  00:26
Director, what

Bill Clearfield  00:35
is it that we wanted her to do? Christy I

Speaker 1  00:44
it was it again. Oh, man, I could help. Could use help if I give her the spreadsheet on dropping those into the template you want to connect me with her? I can work with her on that.

Bill Clearfield  01:05
Hey, Dr Nario,

Unknown Speaker  01:08
Hey, are we good to go?

Bill Clearfield  01:11
Should you should be here? I got Kevin's here with me.

Unknown Speaker  01:14
Oh, really, you guys are nitpicking.

Bill Clearfield  01:17
The staff is in. We're in the whole team, some penicillin to get rid of it.

Unknown Speaker  01:24
Is that a disease? What?

Bill Clearfield  01:28
Staff? Yeah, Staph aureus.

Unknown Speaker  01:34
It's not, it's not communicable, right?

Bill Clearfield  01:37
Let's hope not right. You know, it's a WC Fields. They're saying I wouldn't want to be part of any and I wouldn't want to be part of any group that would have me as a member.

Speaker 2  01:51
Hey, I got another last minute sponsor. Oh, how

Bill Clearfield  01:55
about getting some last minute customers?

Speaker 2  01:59
Oh, we have, I thought we got 50 already in the house, as Kevin said,

Bill Clearfield  02:10
commensurate with the

Speaker 2  02:14
50 we can't fit anymore if we add, I guess anticipate extra Like 60, right

Unknown Speaker  02:20
counting speakers. We're probably going to have at

Bill Clearfield  02:23
least, yeah, well, they're not all going to be there at the same time. And then we have, you know, the slaggers,

Unknown Speaker  02:29
the one that you rejected, who aren't

Bill Clearfield  02:31
going to be there at all, the one we rejected, you didn't count her, right?

Unknown Speaker  02:37
We rejected a couple. What

Unknown Speaker  02:39
we rejected the

Bill Clearfield  02:41
mushroom lady was the one

Speaker 1  02:43
doctor Mario, and Mario on that call, I would have you would have found that entertaining.

Bill Clearfield  02:47
I think Dr nary would have aged 10 years. Hey, I would have aged 10. I aged five years on that 20 minute call.

Unknown Speaker  03:00
It's mushrooms I'll buy in probably,

Bill Clearfield  03:03
yeah, well, and, you know, and not only in the end, not only she, not only she Where's Where's where's Burgess, not only is she a purveyor of mushrooms, she set up a church. She has a church, The Church of Latter, Latter Day in Spain, I thought

Unknown Speaker  03:24
it was Latter Day Saints, but it's

Bill Clearfield  03:27
Latter Day Lions Mane, which is one of them, you know, main brain mushrooms.

Speaker 2  03:32
Sure that works. So we have a lot of online feeds that they're saying online.

Bill Clearfield  03:44
Count how many we have. I mean, that's that's always the pattern these days, but we're

Speaker 2  03:53
still going for 50, right? I'm gonna call the Great Four gardens and give them the number.

Speaker 1  03:58
I feel like that's the number. Yeah, give her Yeah. I did the count, and then we added Marissa at the hotel said we she allocates her about 5% which we could probably apply give or take to Clearfield guards. But, yeah, 50, yeah. What about sponsors? Do we feed them? I guess we do.

Bill Clearfield  04:17
They're the ones who pay the most. Yeah, we don't want them dropping over, you know,

Speaker 1  04:22
stay away from the food. Yeah, yeah.

Speaker 2  04:25
You know, we're sticking with 50, right. Stick with 50, yeah. Okay. I'm going to want to make sure it's

Bill Clearfield  04:33
actually not too bad for a little place in Reno half between Christmas and and a 4m.

Speaker 2  04:42
Oh, yeah. Well, even though there's excess food, we'll take it home.

Bill Clearfield  04:50
You have enough food to do you put it in the freezer. You could probably eat for a year.

Speaker 2  04:55
Well, it's a winner, so we need to stock up on food anyway. I like the beers, right?

Bill Clearfield  05:04
Yeah, well, I should run these more often. I've lost 15 pounds since we started this little, little project, and I'm not dieting at

Unknown Speaker  05:15
all the stress of it all, that's fine. We I think I

Bill Clearfield  05:22
might have muted you. Oh, I should, I should have, I should have. I can't keep leaning on Stefan. You know, our speaker dropped out this.

Speaker 2  05:32
Well, your topic is pretty good. The Coimbra, yeah, you know about it? Yeah, I've heard of this.

Bill Clearfield  05:38
Okay, I hadn't. We've learned about it at ammg, I thought, yeah, I thought it was pretty neat.

Speaker 2  05:44
So it's a good thing you're not presenting this to conventional docs. You're gonna, for sure, drop their pants when they hear this.

Bill Clearfield  05:53
Well, you know, we relish that dropping pants. We live to have a real doctor's hair set on fire. Why get out?

Unknown Speaker  06:10
We'll take it right,

Bill Clearfield  06:11
exactly, right. Why even bother,

Speaker 2  06:17
yep. Why even bother, right? We don't

Bill Clearfield  06:19
want to get out of there's no point. There would be no point to it. So,

Unknown Speaker  06:30
really, oh, you know,

Bill Clearfield  06:34
the food's expensive, you know, you know, we'll just have the last stragglers. We'll just have them. We'll do a Hunger Games, you know, let them scrap. We'll throw there's enough food for three people and there's eight of you. This, you this is what you get for signing up late.

Speaker 2  06:52
You know, we haven't done the Remember, we're going to send emails to the presenters for that five minute interview, because I thought Kevin and Steve will talk about that. Did we

Bill Clearfield  07:03
do the we're gonna we're not gonna do the interviews.

Speaker 1  07:05
No, we can do it. I didn't send the emails out, though. What do you want to say in that?

Speaker 2  07:09
I'll do that. Yeah, remember, we I think Steve was kind of thinking, guys, I one time of the day to huddle up everyone. I don't know where that

Speaker 1  07:18
conversation went. I just want to make sure that you guys have your expectations set with you know, how many you know who you want to offer that to that sort of thing. Just make sure we can capture the everyone you guys want, really. What were you thinking?

Speaker 2  07:37
Oh, it was doctor bill. I think Dr Bill, like you said, they can use it for their advertising speakers.

Bill Clearfield  07:42
Well, you know, the speakers, I've done them before, and, you know, they send you your clip, and you can put it on your website. You can use it for, you know, I'm a you can use it. You can put it on YouTube. You can, you know, use it as an average, you know, a testimonial for yourself that kind of, yeah, they're nice. But a month later, nobody,

Speaker 2  08:06
yeah, but again, still. So that's I'm going to have. We're going to send out emails for them to see this, give

Speaker 1  08:15
me a little guidance. What? What should I offer them? I just want to, don't want to over offer, guests. Just let them know that we're going to do a five minute feature, and we'll do we'll squeeze that in, in between talks, and they can

Bill Clearfield  08:28
promote their their practice. That's what they can't say when they're up on the podium.

Speaker 2  08:34
Okay, got it? Send you. So, yeah, so you're Kevin. You're just gonna make that letter and said your main email.

Speaker 3  08:53
Hey, Melvin, or someone who's internet inclined, here, my Zoom opens. I logged in before you brought me in, and it's small, rectangular, and I exited, re logged in, and I still have a narrow, two inch wide zoom window instead of the whole screen.

Speaker 2  09:15
Good timing, you, you mentioned that Kevin's there are a tech expert,

Bill Clearfield  09:19
is that the video, let's see.

Speaker 1  09:24
There's no There's no arrows to make it bigger. If there's any arrows, it makes it small. Let me look on my laptop. I've seen that before.

Bill Clearfield  09:37
At the bottom where it says, video, you don't have anything like that.

Speaker 3  09:42
It says stop video. I have something that says more. And when I look through that, it really does not show anything to make it full

Bill Clearfield  09:53
screen, heading in the in the general settings at all,

Speaker 1  09:56
I feel like that's just, it's one of the it's very not obvious, sort of, all right,

Bill Clearfield  10:05
we'll try, and we'll try and figure it out for you. Adam,

Speaker 3  10:08
well, if none of you have it, it's my problem. I gotta, you know, I don't know, turn my iPad off and reload it and, you know, see if it comes back.

Bill Clearfield  10:20
Yeah, sometimes, you know, in the, you know, when you in the general thing, when you with video, sometimes, I don't know, you play around with it and you hit a button, and don't know that's what happens that

Unknown Speaker  10:31
kind of, yeah, no, I Get it. General Settings, I guess I don't know,

Speaker 3  10:43
having the same problem I was I only had a two inch screen. I had to sign off and resign in

Speaker 2  10:52
Dr Bill. You know, it was a good crowd for this glimbra protocol. The Philippine group, they actually had a a workshop about this. I saw it on there. So you're gonna get a

Unknown Speaker  11:04
I got a full screen now, I don't know why. I have no idea.

Bill Clearfield  11:10
Well, Kevin over here did something, and it's something dinged. So that's why we got Kevin, to give him credit.

Speaker 2  11:17
That's why we have Kevin on this team. That's right,

Bill Clearfield  11:24
we'd make you an honorary doctor here, but then that would ruin your life.

Speaker 2  11:30
Hey, you get free steak dinners for testo. Yeah, yeah.

Bill Clearfield  11:36
So, anybody, anybody who's a prescriber that's coming to Reno tomorrow. Let me know. We have a we have a dinner with the company that makes tea Lando, which is a oral testosterone on decking. Oh, eight. It bricks. It's right near the hotel. So it's at 630 so I have to send in reservations. So we tried to get Dr Siegel in, and they sort of said, No, our veterinarian, I'd love to go. I'd love to go. Okay, so I'm sure I have your, I'm sure I have your, your contact, right?

Speaker 4  12:21
Jeanette, you should my camera back on so you can see me when

Bill Clearfield  12:31
we're done. I'll get in touch with them, unless maybe I can do it during Dr. Dr narios, tip of the week. Our speaker this week, unfortunately, on Sunday let me know that he couldn't make it. So not that I had nothing else to do since the, you know, the conferences on Thursday. So I'm going to be giving the talk tonight, and it's so we'll let Dr Nerio. It's a little bit after five. And anybody else in the Reno area or going to be around tomorrow? Around 630 Yeah. Dr Bill, I think I would go to Okay, let me well, okay, so I can't promise anything, but I will try. Okay. So, Dr Nario, if you can talk for about at least five minutes,

Unknown Speaker  13:25
I can talk longer. No, I'm kidding. Okay,

Bill Clearfield  13:29
alright, I'm going to, I'm going to try and get,

Speaker 2  13:34
alright, okay, so, so again, we're going to talk about our tip of the leak today. And today we're covering a molecule that's basically the fantasy of every patient to ask, Doc, is there a way to get the benefits of exercise without actually exercising? Well, scientists at St Louis University said, Hold my pipe it and create s, l, u, p, p3, 32 an experimental compound that activates the estrogen related receptors, so err, alpha, beta and gamma. So don't worry, despite the name, it's not estrogen related. No hot flashes, no drama, no uterus, no involvement. And again, what is it? S, l, u, p, p3, two is an exercise mimetic. It activates the err receptors, which regulate mitochondrial biogenesis, oxidative metabolism, fat oxidation, ATP production, muscle endurance genes. So think of err receptors as the master electrical panel of mitochondrial function. And it doesn't just flip a switch, it turns the whole house back on. So from an anti aging standpoint, this targets the holy trinity of decline, meaning reduced mitochondrial density, reduce vo two, Max and reduce metabolic flexibility if GLP one, drugs manage appetite and peptides help prepare tissue. SLU aims straight for cellular energy capacity, the part we were never been able to actually be effective using our drugs, and currently, the research of this is still in the process. Why am I bringing this up? The reason why is because I'm seeing patients who are using this. And this was also mentioned in the fellowship that as we Expound our practices, we need to be familiar with new therapies out there that are patients that are using. So we can, we need to be updated. The one who I've noticed using this are actually bodybuilders. So again, the rule of the medicine, the moment a molecule burns fat, body builders get it before researchers do so. Anecdotally, the it's the Wild Wild West, when you say, when you hear it on online forums, and they have different doses, and they call it cardio in a capsule. So they stack it with their peptides, with their estrogen blockers, so claiming they don't need pre workout anymore when they use this. So it kind of was triggered also by a patient of mine who actually was using this and need to do a little bit more research. Again, we cannot advise on this as clinicians, but this, it is something that we need to look out for the future, because they are actually currently doing pre clinical trials as of now, and in the trials, the results have been tremendous fat loss, even on a high fat diet, increased energy expenditure. They burn fat like they're training for a tiny marathon, more oxidative muscle fibers, basically turning couch mouses into cardio mouses in the study, better insulin sensitivity, reduce liver fat and inflammation and improve mitochondrial density. Again, zero estrogenic effects, even though I mentioned err receptors here and again, very important for you to understand in the longevity scene, it is something that, again, it's a mitochondrial amplifier, not a stimulant, not a peptide, not a hormone. It's a true seller, energy up regulator. So again, it's called in the market. When you hear it from your patients, it's called sloop, s, l, u, p, p, and but the number is 332, again, not approved, not available, and not ready. But this is in the black market, but it's one of the first molecules that generally looks like exercise in a bottle at a molecular level. So think of it as a septic for your mitochondria, except it doesn't make you nauseated and actually encourage you to move. So stay tuned with the future of anti aging. May be aerobic, even if your patients aren't, but this is something, again, just to keep an eye out for and just to educate our practitioners out there, and maybe ask your patients if they're

Unknown Speaker  17:27
using it. How do you get it right?

Speaker 2  17:30
Now, you could look at a research again, where you get these peptides that are for research only. Where my patients are getting it from are in these bodybuilding websites. So again, like the peptides that we are currently getting scrutinized for, this is something that you're going to see in that level. So this, you could look at websites, and it will be in the classifications of peptides as well.

Bill Clearfield  17:55
Okay, is it marked not for human consumption? Like the peptides are?

Speaker 2  17:59
Well, yes, unfortunately, but bodybuilders, I have seen them. They use it. Of course, they already huge and big, but there's the wonder of this is you're doing cardio without doing cardio. That's what they're claiming. And it's basically increasing your energy expenditure without even doing the cardio metabolic exercise. How long have you been taking it? Oh, not me. I wish, with this girly frame of mind, I don't think I need more than sleep.

Speaker 5  18:30
But is this synthetic? This is synthetic?

Speaker 2  18:34
Oh, it's, it's a, yeah, it's a, it's something, it's something created in the lab.

Bill Clearfield  18:38
Yeah, it's actually part, part of the stack of with Kylie's friend Jay Campbell. You see it in his store? Yeah, they pushed that a lot.

Speaker 2  18:47
So, yeah. So it's loop, and that's why it's big. It's because you're running on a treadmill without you even running on an actual treadmill.

Unknown Speaker  18:56
Wow, amazing. Yeah.

Speaker 2  19:00
So yeah, let's make them use it first, and let's see if, if their growth little tails, maybe we should back off a little

Bill Clearfield  19:06
bit. We can do that.

Unknown Speaker  19:08
I'll be a group Test, test subject.

Speaker 2  19:11
You know, I had a conversation with my patients saying that, really, we have to salute these bodybuilders, because they are actually studies that does not even need consents. They're just going out there, just to try everything for us and show us results about it, and maybe even side effects, without even actually going through a full study that you need to be paying for. Okay?

Bill Clearfield  19:37
Thank you. Dr Nario, well, our time is upon us. You we will not be speaking of this again. Thursday we start and we we are very excited. We have a really great program. We've added some more after hours, dinner on Thursday night, those of you are coming and don't know, so Thursday night, we have Chris Costa playing. He's a local one man band, and he plays everything from the 40s to the 70s. Grateful Gardens, which is an organic restaurant, will be catering that for us. Friday night, we have tea and keys and we have a sit down dinner for that. We have sponsors for every breakfast and lunch, and we still have room for you, and we really love to see you. I know it's only two days away, but if you can make it great, if not, it's online, 20 AMA, CME, credits, category one, we've had to shift the agenda around a little bit for to accommodate folks. But it's, it's pretty much the same lineup, and the online is, is, is very robust. We have two new speakers. We have Lancet van Gilder will be speaking about airway and the use of breathing for health. And then we also have on, I think it's Friday. We've added, who do we have? Oh, Colleen Huber. And we'll be talking about a pectoral muscle strategy to help treat breast cancer. So those are two new speakers that we hadn't had before. Like I said, 20 ama CME credits. Next week, we will be talking about what a great time we had. And those of you are out there in TV land, will have missed it. So that's that's for next week. That will be next week we have swag bags. I don't know if you can see this. Can you see this thing? You're going to get this thing here. Nice. Can you see that we got a swag bag? We got a a what do you call that thing? That it's a plug, it's a multi charger. It'll end it's it's got our logo on it. We have gift bags. We have pens, pencils, you know, all that good stuff. So you only get this stuff if you're in house, so make sure you get there and Dr Tanno and Dr Serna, you're in tomorrow night at bricks, so Dr Tanno, get in touch with me. We'll get you over. It's close to the hotel. If you're staying there, we'll have we're meeting at five o'clock with the staff for the final rundown, and we'll take you over there. It's only like a it's like a five minute drive or a 10 minute walk. But you know, Reno's it's dark and it's a real busy street, so we don't want you walking on the street there. Okay, so you two are in. Anybody else who's going to be in Reno tomorrow night? Tomorrow night before 630 let me know I can get you in. How about Adam? Are you coming?

Unknown Speaker  23:04
I land at eight o'clock. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  23:06
alright. So we'll leave some food for you, Adam.

Unknown Speaker  23:10
Where? Where are we meeting?

Bill Clearfield  23:13
Well, it's a Bricks restaurant. You know where that is, yeah. Okay, so that's at 630 we're going to be at the at the hotel, you know where the conference is, at five for a final run through with the hotel staff and and our IT people to make so make sure everything's working. And so we'll be there at five, and at 630 we have, it's T Lando, which is a testosterone on decking and decking. Oh, eight, that's dinner. And they have a big muckety muck who was one of the big speakers at the androgen society when I was there in San Francisco, coming to speak. He's he's a big researcher.

Speaker 2  23:51
So just to clarify for our Filipino or international audience, that we will have recordings, and Kevin is there to answer, to verify that, but I'm sure we're going to have recordings for everybody, because they're there. Their time is actually starting at 11pm and it ends at 8am so basically,

Bill Clearfield  24:14
I was, I was in a conference over the weekend. It was in Bangkok, so they originally had, you know, yeah, they originally had me scheduled at 2:45am Our Time, My Time, they moved me up. They were nice. They moved me up to 11:15pm, so it wasn't, it wasn't

Unknown Speaker  24:31
so bad. That's a big help,

Bill Clearfield  24:32
yeah, so that was a big help. So, yeah, the Filipino people and I've done some in London, where they started at 11pm la time where I am, and so the you know, we'll make sure you get everything that's coming to you, and a little bit more. So okay, so we're looking forward to seeing everybody that we see on, on online here, every, you know, every week. And those of you that can't make it, please, you know, we'll, we'll try and get the vendors to to come on and talk to you. And we'll, we'll try to make it, make it as as you know, homey, as we can. We learned a few things during the shutdown years. So with that, are we good doctor? Doctor narrow, think we're good to go. Okay, alright. So originally I had Dennis Williams, who's a local psychologist here, and he was going to speak about brain injuries and psychiatric trauma, but unfortunately had to drop out. So I'm decided to take this myself, and we are going to be speaking about something that I Dr Nario tells me he knows all about. But I had never heard about this until I got this from when I was at ammg, just a couple of weeks ago, and this is called the Coimbra protocol. And I thought it was quite, quite fascinating. And I was looking for an opportunity. I didn't realize it was going to have. There's going to be this quick. So some of this might be, especially at the end, might be a little disjointed, because, as you can imagine, that we've been quite busy here and to put this together at the same time has been a bit of a challenge. So the coimba protocol is the use of high dose, and I mean really high dose vitamin D for autoimmune issues. And it's, it's actually been around since about 2001 2002 I put this in because you will probably be able to get, oh, by the way, last week with with Stephon Hartman and his mother, those of you that were on and noticed that the video was not not on, on on YouTube. YouTube struck it. They decided that that was medical misinformation, and they specifically cited where she was talking about the Gerson diet. And, I mean, I listened to the part where she was talking, but she said she did use the Gerson diet for herself. She didn't use any and she said what it was. And they struck that and I, I appealed it, and they told me, No, you know, we're no good. So I'll try to get it up on our website. Stefan has it on his I know that, but if you were looking for it, that's what happened to it. So, so PEX Bad Boy strikes again. So we'll tell you what the coimber protocol is. And there's something in Europe called the coimber group, which sometimes causes come some consternation. So I'll let you know what both of those are, we'll talk about the mechanistic hypothesis, which is that there's an acquired vitamin D resistance. And then we'll look at some of the clinical management components, we'll look at some of the safety factors and and we'll look at some of the research that's been done. So so it's a tale of two, Coimbra, there's a Coimbra University, and there's a Corona group in Europe, and there's 42 established European academic societies that have come together and collaborate with each other, and it's named after this city and university in in Portugal. That's not what we're talking about. Just so you know. So the Coimbra protocol is a high dose vitamin D. It was developed by a Dr Cicero Coimbra. He's a professor and a neurologist at the Federal University in San Paulo, Brazil, and his focus is on autoimmune disease via modulation. I know Dr Dario told me that he knows about this. I had never heard of it before. I don't know if anybody else has any any any information on it, or has used it or done it, but I when we go through it, I have, I have dozens of patients that I can think of that that could benefit from this. So, so I'll go through it with you. We'll talk about the pros and the cons. You know, obviously vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin. And you know, we've always been taught that fat soluble vitamins can have quite a bit of toxicity, which is true. So we'll talk about how we get around some of those, especially with these doses. So so this was developed, again, like I said, by a doctor, Cicero Coimbra, on the based on the idea of get that there is an acquired vitamin D resistance in the immune cells that are not functioning properly. And to overcome this resistance, his protocol uses super physiologic doses of vitamin d3 and he emphasizes that this has to be done under strict medical supervision and with safety monitoring. We just don't go out and tell patients, you know, take four or five or 610, 1000 vitamin D units a day. And that's that's really the wrong thing to do. So the first inkling of this was in around the year 2001 and Dr Coimbra had a Parkinson's patient. Remember, he was a urologist, and he placed him on 10,000 units of vitamin d3 and he noticed a marked improvement in in the patient's tremor, but also the patient had some vitiligo. And he got, he got the idea that maybe that the vitamin D had some, some issue, or with towards, you know this, these autoimmune type diseases. So it's it's been reported to be used with multiple sclerosis, vitiligo, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and Hashimotos, thyroiditis. And we'll take a look a little bit of look at all of these. It's, it's, and a lot of this is, is anecdotal reporting. There are some studies, but most of what I've read is anecdotal. So take it for what it's worth. The protocol can significantly reduce or even place autoimmune disease into long term remission, and Dr coimba reports 95% submission of suppression of multiple sclerosis activity and is in his clinical experience. And again, you know, these are not double blind studies. These are not peer reviewed studies. I mean, these are his observations. You know, whether you you want to believe that or not? I, you know, we take that with a grain of salt so but again, he emphasizes this, and in all the literature that I read, you know, this is an experimental therapy. It must be administered under supervision of a qualified physician. High Dose vitamin D can cause permanent kidney damage, if misused or if improperly monitored. And I have personal experience with this. I had a patient in 1990 when I was in Wilkes, barre. Pa, northeast PA. He was 44 years old. His name was Tom. He was not in great shape. He was a very brittle diabetic. He already had had two mis he had stents in his coronary arteries. He had a stent in his right carotid artery. In the it was the winter time. It was there was an ice storm, and I got a call at night that Tom was in the ER and he was having seizures, which were new, and he'd been there about an hour, and he was, they weren't able to stop them, and he was on maximum doses, everything that they had done, all the studies that they had done up to that point, and indeed afterwards, the only, the only parameter that was off on him, other than his blood sugar, of course, was his calcium level was about 15. I think it was 15.2 if I remember correctly. And at least at that time, somebody comes in cold, having seizures, you know, new onset seizures. It was either a head injury, but with a calcium was 15.2 this was a hit. This was a this was a brain tumor, until proven otherwise. Well, Tom did not have a brain tumor. He didn't have any tumors, and we scanned them from stem to stern, and we couldn't figure out anything that. he was in atrial fib, in an atrial flutter going back and forth, and he wasn't waking up.

Bill Clearfield  33:46
So usually, with a patient like this, what we, which we do, where we live, is we would helicopter them to either Philadelphia or New York, because, you know, we didn't want him to pass away on our watch, especially since we didn't know what was wrong with them. Now, have to remember, you know, we're going to get the vitamin D. We did not draw vitamin D levels on anybody. In fact, it was on nobody's radar. And I called in the neurologist, a neurosurgeon, an endocrinologist, and a couple of Internal Medicine Specialist, a cardiologist, and everybody, we all threw up our hands. Nobody knew what to do with him, and the weather was bad, so we couldn't helicopter wasn't riding. So I called his wife and I told her, I told her what, what the story was, and that we didn't know. We didn't know what was wrong with them. And she told me, I have to let me back up. I have to give you two pieces of information, and the story will make sense. About a year before Tom showed up in the ER Sam's Club had opened in in Wilkes Barre. And you remember, like, like Costco, Sam's Club, at that time, you can get the 14 rolls of paper towels for about six bucks. And the big scandal was that you had to, you had to buy a membership. I think it was 10 bucks at the time. And you know, everybody there was up in arms. So Sam's Club, number one, number two, Northeast Pennsylvania. It was, was where coal was found, discovered to be used for heat. And there was a huge influx of Eastern European ethnic folks from Poland and Slovak, Slovakia, Romania. And you know, they, some of those folks, bring their traditions with them. And even though it wasn't my tradition when you we had kids, and when the kids come over and their friends come over, one of the traditions there, there in that from that community, was that mom would put a candy dish at the stairwell. And even though it was coal country, every house had a basement, not like Reno and so you had a basement, first floor and second floor, and mom would put a candy dish at the stairwell, and she remember it was 1990 1991 no fat diets were that all the rage. So if you had an avocado, you were going or some coconut oil, you were going to die, but you could have no fat raspberry vinaigrette, high fructose corn, corn syrup, salad dressing. Or mom could put Reese's Pieces and Kit Kats and M and M's and any other kind of chocolates in a candy jar and candy bowl at the stairwell, and your reward for going up and down the steps is you took a scoop of candy. Okay, so you got the picture Sam's Club candy dishes. So his wife says to me, I don't know if this matters or not, but six months ago, he went to Sam's Club and he bought six bottles of vitamin D. Now you remember vitamin Sam's clubs like Costco, the bottle of Vitamin D has 1000 pills in it, and it turned out to be a, what we found out later, a 5000 IU pill. And she said, and, and he went back last last month, and he bought three more because he had finished them. He dumped the vitamin D in the candy dishes. And every time he went up and down the steps, he took a scoop of vitamin D. He heard it was good for she's I remember her saying she heard, he heard it was good for his condition. So so. And he went back a month before he came in with these seizures, and got three more bottles. And she said he there's only one bottle left. So he took 8005 5000 unit pills in six months. I did a rough calculation. It was about 150,000 units a day of vitamin D, and we're going to see that some of these treatments actually have used more than that. But, you know, there's guardrails here. So anyway, nobody did vitamin D level. We didn't even think of using doing vitamin D levels. In fact, our hospital didn't even have the reagents for it. We had to wait, because the weather was bad to get the reagents from Johns Hopkins, which was four hours away on a good day. When we finally got a vitamin D level on him, all he could tell us is it was greater than 900 and we did everything we could think of, plasmapheresis, we did dialysis, nothing worked, and he passed away. So that's my that's my experience with vitamin D. Now we do vitamin D levels on everybody, and we probably do it two or three times a year on our patients. So hopefully that that won't happen. Somebody comes in and they get a vitamin D level of 112 we start telling them it's a little bit too much. So the point is that, you know, if you're going to look at this, this type of therapy, we need to know what we're doing. We need to, you know, be vigilant, because these patients can get into trouble and and, you know, again, like Dr Burgess says all the time, safety, safety, safety. We need to monitor the calcium ionized and unionized renal function. And we're going to, you're going to see in a few minutes, we actually dose via the parathyroid hormone, and not 25 hydroxy vitamin D. And mandatory, they have to be on at least two and a half liters of fluid a day. And there's no negotiate on this. We you have them sign, you know, a consent. And they have to, they have to do this. And a low calcium diet, less than 500 milligrams a day of calcium, so that cuts out dairy mostly, and, you know, and calcium carbonate, you know, antacids and things like that. Okay, so vitamin D is a master regulator of the immune system. We've We've all heard it's been called a pro hormone. It has T regulatory cell properties, and it increases calming cells that prevent or they are anti inflammatory. They decrease the th 17 cell line that drives inflammation beyond vitamin D, vitamin rather bone health, vitamin D functions, again, is a pro hormone. It aids in the in the function of growth hormone and cortisol, stress hormone. Low vitamin D levels are consistently associated with higher risk and greater sensitivity of autoimmune diseases, including multiple sclerosis, lupus, type one diabetes, and it is it has epigenetic influences over 200 genes that are involved in immune regulation. So the coimber protocol is based on a hypothesis that the that the the autoimmune affected cells are resistant to vitamin D, similar to insulin resistance or thyroid resistance. And that's the kind of that's the theory behind it. They have reduced biological response to vitamin D, either due to genetic factors, particularly vitamin D receptor genes that activate enzymes like the CYP 27 b1 or transport proteins and they make these gene snips are make the vitamin D less, less effective, also environmental factors, including infections like our old friend, the Epstein Barr Virus, Lyme disease, hepatitis, herpes And Yersinia, which comes from a common you know, stomach flu are some of the culprits here, also for a hat tip to Dr Campbell, mold and mycotoxins. Consequently, normal levels of vitamin D are not sufficient to regulate the immune system, and they allow the autoimmune process to persist. This is kind of an overview of the protocol. It's at high dose vitamin D. And look at those doses, 40,000 to 300,000 units a day. I mean, that's a whopping dose. If we're going to we're going to entertain that we're going to need to make bill on our toes here, a minimum of two and a half liters of fluid is required daily to protect the kidneys and to help remove any excess calcium. These folks need to be monitored with blood tests and urine tests to they have to monitor their calcium, kidney function and parathyroid hormone levels, again, strict, no calcium diet or very little calcium diet. So dairy products, calcium fortified foods, seeds and nuts are no go. And we'll talk about some co factors that will help, will aid in mobilizing the calcium and increasing blood flow. And you'll see, you see the there, there will give you some doses in a little bit.

Bill Clearfield  43:25
Okay, so, so conventional medicine defines 25 hydroxy vitamin D as normal now is 30 to 100 I know it says 50 there. And we've, we've gone through many times, if you want me to, I'll tell you how we get to our optimal of 50 to 80 nanograms per milliliter. But as as, as recently as a year ago, there was a video on one of the view medi or something from a a a professor at the University of California, San Francisco, arguing that any any let values of 25 hydroxy vitamin D over 20 are not necessary. So, you know, that's the conventional wisdom. The Coimbra protocol declares that this is insufficient, and again, we're dealing with vitamin D receptors that have snips on them that do not respond properly to usual vitamin D doses. Again, the immune regulatory effects of vitamin D are not fully achieved when blood levels are so called normal. And again, as I mentioned before. It's analogous to insulin resistance and or thyroid resistance. We use super physiologic doses of vitamin d3 to overcome receptor resistance and to restore proper immune balance. Down here, this little chart here shows the progress of vitamin D as it goes from sunlight through the skin the liver to 25 hydroxy vitamin d3 and it goes through the kidneys and it activates hormone binding receptors to affect its expression. So these changes in the genetic there's genetic the genetic variance, the changes affect binding, strength and signaling, and they weaken the cells response to vitamin D. The two enzymes or CYP 2r, 125, hydroxylase and CYB, two, 7b, one, one Alpha hydroxylase are the two enzymes that are affected in this vitamin D resistance syndrome. Genetic variants in this enzyme reduce the conversion of vitamin d3 to 25 hydroxy vitamin D in the liver, which is the first critical step in vitamin D activation and the one Alpha hydroxylase enzyme, polymorphisms affecting this enzyme impair the final conversion to the 125 hydroxy 2d vitamin d3 in the kidneys, directly limiting vitamin D. Immuno, immuno, immunology capacity. Can't say that word. Environmental factors can impair vitamin D resistance as the as well as the genetic factors. So we talked about the pathogens epstein barr, borella with Lyme disease, cytomegalovirus and again, Yersinia, mold mycotoxins, herpes, hepatitis are The main culprits. High cortisol levels, weekend vitamin D receptor activity. And this can happen through direct receptor interference, or it can disrupt the gene transcription patterns aging, so skin production vitamin D production diminishes with age. Intestinal absorption is also affected as patients mature, kidney activation of Vitamin D is impaired via the senescent cells in the body, and the aging increases your vitamin D resistance. I don't know if Dr Halas is on. Here's his favorite, th one to th two and th 17. And before with with vitamin D resistance, we get increased inflammatory cytokines, particularly TNF alpha, interleukin six, interleukin 17, the high dose vitamin d3 will over overwhelm the the the inactive cells and increase t, Reg cells, decrease th, one, th, 17, over activity, decrease pro inflammatory cytokines and decrease the auto immune instances on the affected tissues. Again, Vitamin D is a pro pro hormone, not just a vitamin. It actually aids growth hormone and cortisol in in their production and repair. Remember, vitamin cortisol and and growth hormone are both generated with sleep, usually between the hours of 10pm and 4am and one of the one of the issues with, you know, traveling long distances and disrupting your daily rhythm is the disruption of cortisol, stress hormone and growth hormone. And again, the vitamin D, vitamin D receptor complex can modulate up to 1200 genes have been have been identified so they can both be both innate and adaptive gene genes in adaptive immunity and vitamin D reshapes the immune cell behavior and inflammatory responses. So vitamin D will increase your regulatory T cells. It promotes immune tolerance and it promotes it will boost the T reg differentiation and function, which is crucial for immune tolerance. It helps suppress the autoimmune reactions that can occur, and vitamin D lowers pro inflammatory th, 7t cells, which are the major drivers of our of many autoimmune functions, particularly in multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus and Hashimotos, thyroiditis, vitamin D shapes, the B cells and T helper cells, affecting their differentiation and proliferation and shifts the immune system towards a more tolerant anti inflammatory state that counters the autoimmune progress. Sorry about the slide here. So the th, one, th, 17 pro inflammatory cells, promote inflammation, drive autoimmunity, and the T reg cells, which suppress the effector cells and maintain tolerance. The therapeutic goal of the Coimbra protocol is to reset the immune balance to the right hand side of this of this chart, and it shifts the th, 17, T reg ratio towards immune tolerance. We use individual dose strategies, and we can use doses anywhere from 40,000 to 300,000 units a day. There's some disease specific starting doses. On average, a starting dose is about 1000 units per kilogram, which is a lot of vitamin D. So you know, you have a patient that weighs 220 pounds, usually a male, that's 100 kilograms, so 1000 times 100 that's a lot of vitamin D. That 100,000 units a day. And that's usually the starting dose in most of the most of the protocols for autoimmune disease, a little bit less. With psoriasis, rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and irritable bowel syndrome, 300 to 500 units per kilogram per This is per day. And for Hashimotos, 150 to 300 units per kilogram per day. Doses are individualized, though they're not fixed, and we are going to vigorously test their calcium levels. We will look at our 25 hydroxy vitamin D, because it's conventional, but you dose according to the parathyroid response and disease activity, usually got to move it. It's not sitting on there properly. What's that? We can mute whoever that is. And ongoing optimization, I would, if we're starting this protocol, probably test these folks before we begin the protocol. I would test them probably once a month for at least three to four months, and then at least every three months after that, we modify the doses up or down to meet the therapeutic goals, which are to lessen the autoimmune response.

Bill Clearfield  53:00
Again, the goal is to get sufficient substrate, sufficient vitamin 25, hydroxy Vitamin D, Vitamin d3 to saturate the resistance receptors and normalized downstream immune signaling. Despite impaired receptor function. We're not looking for normal 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels. Remember normals, 30 to 100 optimals, 50 to 80. If you take, if you use these protocols, you're going to get levels in the 150 200 that are necessary we should be able to get the patient safely through this and reduce the autoimmune response. So parathyroid hormone and vitamin D are linked in a tight feedback loop that regulates calcium balance active 125, hydroxy vitamin d3 will suppress parathyroid production as the vitamin D activity increases, and this makes the parathyroid hormone a biomarker of functional vitamin D receptor, the 25 hydroxy vitamin D will always rise with supplementation of vitamin D, even if the receptors are resistant. So we're getting a false reading with the 25 hydroxy vitamin D parathyroid suppression. By contrast, signals that the vitamin D is actually binding to the vitamin D receptors, and we're getting the biological effects, not unlike getting serum magnesium levels, and then red blood cell magnesium levels. You know, the numbers are very different, and what we're looking for is art is the magnesium getting to the cells and not just in the serum. And I postulate, we gave, we gave some talks at AMG on serum laboratory tests as part of our laboratory series. And the same thing we look for that with testosterone. So serum testosterone levels are not the same as tissue testosterone levels, but the tissue testosterone levels we're looking at probably saliva RBC testosterone or urinary metabolites. So the same thing here. The 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels will be, can be high, high, normal or very high. But what we're looking for is parathyroid suppression. You want to suppress the parathyroid into the lowest third of the reference range, and this increase, this indicates you're getting biological vitamin D effect, and you're optimizing your th 17 T reg balance. The therapeutic level for your parathyroid is about 10 to 13 picograms per milliliter. Normal is, according to lab, core, is 15 to 65 picograms per milliliter. So we're less than than a midpoint. Midpoint is 40. So we want it to be less than a midpoint, and it could even be a little bit below. What is that? That wide range? You don't want to push the parathyroid to zero, though, that that will cause calcium to be mobilized excessively, and we're going to end up with long term bone and renal risk. So again, some is good, too much is not good. The exact sweet spot of our lab values varies a little bit by lab. You make sure that, again, there's a difference between the two major labs where I am, or lab core and quest, and you have to look at their reference ranges, because there's sometimes a little bit different. And so, for instance, for Hashimotos thyroiditis, the thyroid peroxidase and antibody for lab core is normal is less than zero to 34 our optimal is 20 or lower. But for quest, it's zero to nine. So if we draw a the TPO at Quest, and we get a 15, and then we draw it again three months later at LabCorp, and get a 15. The 15 at LabCorp is normal. The 15 at Quest is high. So again, pay attention to the your you know your calibrations there. You want to bring down the parathyroid hormone by at least 30 to 40% and from the baseline, make sure you keep it detectable, though you don't want it to go very much lower than than the lower, lower end of normal boundary. And we need, again, to monitor, monitor ionized calcium, un ionized calcium, also creatinine, urinary calcium, to ensure patient safety. This was a study done by Lemke. I have the reference a little bit later on, but these are the parathyroid levels over a year, using for 41 MS patients. And I think the dose here was 35,000 units of vitamin D a day, and this was the beginning parathyroid range here anywhere from about 25 to about 55 and as you can see, it's been suppressed once we started using the high dose vitamin D, and it stayed pretty steady here in the 15 to 20 range. Okay, and the reducing the parathyroid concentrations is just as an integrative of overcoming vitamin D resistance. This is from a different study, and the numbers look pretty much the same, little bit color coordinated there. This is the study here by Lemke. You can get the reference if you want to look that up yourself right there. So why not use 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels to measure the vitamin D high dose vitamin D will cause a sharp rise in the 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels. It will rise even if it's not getting to the tissues, though, and it's not exerting. It's the immune effects that we're that we're after. It's not a reliable marker of cellular vitamin D activity with vitamin D receptor resistance and 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels can coexist with poor vitamin D receptor signaling and sub optimal immune response. The vitamin D, 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels can reach 200 to 400 or even higher. But again, we're going to look at the parathyroid hormones, and we're not going to, we're not going to as long as it's suppressed, but not too much. We're not going to, we're not going to panic at all. That's our guide. Okay, other other items that need to be addressed here, diet, hydration and monitoring. So again, vitamin high dose vitamin D will greatly increase intestinal calcium absorption. And remember, my my patient, Tom, his calcium was 15.5 I think normal is about what nine to about 11, it elevates calcium to dangerous levels, and indeed, that was the source of Tom's seizures. Vitamin D is needed for the immune modulation, but we have to be cognizant of calcium toxicity. We need to strictly limit calcium. And I tell we tell our patients, when we do this, it's a judge. Judy deal, it's a yes or a no, either you're doing it or you're not doing it. And if we get any hint that they're going to be using dairy and they're not going to comply with it, you got to, you got to stop this right away, because we can do damage if we don't so milk products, dairy products, nuts and seeds, calcium fortified foods and beverages. The protocol does allow for a little bit of calcium intake, usually less than, less than in half, probably a third of standard recommendations of 500 milligrams a day. I non adherence, risks, risks, hypercalcemia. It can lead to kidney damage, nephrosclerosis, kidney stones and cardiac rhythm disturbances. That's what happened to Tom, and we couldn't get him out of it again. It took us five days to figure out what the problem was in the first place, because nobody thought of vitamin D back then. Calcium restriction and fluid adherence is mandatory. This is non negotiable. And all of the all of you are clinicians, know what I'm talking about. Cardiovascular issues again, Tom had serious atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter from the high calcium levels. Neurological he had new onset seizures. He never did wake up, and he passed away about two weeks after coming in with his, you know, with his high calcium from his high vitamin D. Now, admittedly, you know, he did it himself, and he didn't take any of these precautions, and we weren't cognizant of the fact that he had used vitamin D, and we didn't really know what to make of it. Because I remember I had one line in medical school. I remember vitamin D is a poison. It's a fat soluble vitamin. It will if you take it, it'll stick with you. The only thing it's good for is youngsters with rickets, which you don't see in North America, so just ignore it. I remember that that was it. That's what I heard learned about vitamin D in medical school. Overcoming multiple

Bill Clearfield  1:02:53
sclerosis, the which is a multiple sclerosis, society does not endorse the Coimbra vitamin D doses. And again, I can't emphasize enough, we can get into big trouble with this. So So do's and don'ts for a low calcium diet, keep the calcium low. Stay away from calcium fortified foods and drinks, plant milks, juices, cereals. it's low in calcium, and there are no cheat days, okay? And you have to be strict about that low calcium. Foods, grains, which you know most of us stay away from, vegetables, fruits, fresh meat, eggs and again, healthy fat, oils, read the labels, check the calcium percent of your daily value, and the patients should probably keep a diet. Diary would be a good idea and have them attract their calcium intake. What can they eat? Grilled meats, fish, rice, pasta, potatoes, non creamy vegetables, you can use healthy fats and oils, olive oil, avocado oil, coconut oil, a little bit of butter is probably okay. Fruits and vegetables, stay away from high calcium greens, however, and find out what the ingredients are. You know, sauces and cheeses, please leave them off almonds, cashews, pistachios, sesame, tahini, chia and flax have calcium in them. Canned fish with bones is a taboo, so canned sardines, salmons and don't overlook hidden dairy and soups and dressings and baked goods and protein bars and non dairy creamers. Okay, so hydration. I mentioned this before, 2.5 liters of fluid daily, low calcium water and low calcium beverages. High fluid intake is critical to prevent kidney damage and fluid intake is mandatory. You need adequate hydration to ensure a high urinary output, which will flush the calcium from the kidneys, and it will lower urinary calcium concentrations. It reduces the risk of calcium crystal formation and kidney stones you want to prevent nephro nephro calcinosis, high fluid intake prevents calcium deposits in the kidneys. This can be this happens, it can be irreversible, and can lead to progressive, permanent kidney damage. So fluids are critical. There's some co factors that need to be used alongside of the high dose vitamin D and the fluids. Magnesium is critical, and we like magnesium glycinate here, 200 milligrams twice a day, and magnesium Tori if the patient is has having sleeping issues. Stay away from magnesium citrate that can cause gi that's, you know, we use in the in the colonoscopy suite. So stay away from that one. The magnesium is essential co factor for the hydroxy hydroxylase enzymes that convert the vitamin D to the act to its active form. And low magnesium is under under diagnosed. If you're going to get magnesium levels, you need the RBC magnesium, not the serum you have to specify on the lab slip RBC magnesium, omega three fatty acids, two to four grams a day for a minimum of six months. This these are anti inflammatory. It enhances vitamin D function. It maintains cellular membrane health. It optimizes immune cell health. It's a bit of a a any platelet agent, and it has any depressant properties also. So overall, you know, always a good take we measure C reactive protein. Now that's not for this protocol, but we measure C reactive protein levels on all our patients when the CA reactive protein is greater than one. We usually recommend the the omega three fatty acids, riboflavin, vitamin b2, 50 milligrams, 50 to 200 milligrams per day. This supports energy metabolism, maintains optimal immune function and reduces kidney stone risk. Here's a table of all of the cofactors. But remember the top two, magnesium and riboflavin, they should be mandatory, along with the fluid and the vitamin D. Methylated B vitamins support homocysteine control. They address deficiencies in autoimmune patients. Try to avoid very high b6 long term and tailor the folate, B, 12, mth, fr variants with anemia, remember you can get with a, b, 12, folic acid deficiencies, peripheral neuropathy, vitamin k2, 100 to 400 micrograms per day. It directs calcium into the bone. It helps protect blood vessels, soft tissue, from ectopic calcification, from high dose vitamin D. Use this with caution on vitamin K antagonists, ie the blood thinners Warfarin and the others of such is not a substitute for calcium restriction, however, so it does drive calcium into the bone and lowers its the serum calcium levels. But again, it's not a substitute for calcium restriction. Omega three fatty acids, we already covered that one selenium, which is one of your I call them ingredients that make up the thyroid hormone, the precursor, along with iodine, is an antioxidant. It's an immune modulator. 200 micrograms of selenium daily for about four months can decrease thyroid antibodies by about by up to 40% stay below. I know Stefan likes 200 micrograms twice a day, but you sometimes can run the risk of some toxicity at those levels, so just be a little bit careful there. Zinc, 15 to 30 milligrams will improve the immune function, wound healing, taste and smell. Long term, high dose zinc can deplete copper. And you know, most of the supplements that we use have a zinc copper component to them, iron kerex. Anemia improves fatigue. 25 to 65 milligrams of Elementor iron, we use iron bis glycinate, but we get a 28 milligram a tablet, usually just once a day, and we usually confirm the deficiency either with a serum iron and total iron binding capacity or a ferritin level. You'll see low ferritin levels, particularly in Hashimoto thyroiditis and vitamin A you want to again, is another fat soluble vitamin. Remember, the fat soluble vitamins are A, D, E and K. You don't want too much. You don't want too little. We actually use vitamin A quite frequently for our viral URIs. I'll give you a little little formula that we use, we get 25,000 units of vitamin A, 5000 units of vitamin D we'll use six of the of the vitamin 150,000, units on day one, of our protocol for coughs, colds, URIs, viral infections with 15,000 or Three vitamin DS. On day two, we'll use four vitamin A's 100,000 units and wait. That's wrong. Day one will use six and three, so 150,015 1000 of D. Day Two will use two or 50,000 of A and one 5000 of D. And Day Three will use four or 100,002 vitamin D, 10,000 so it's six and three, two and one, four and two, and we've used that for a long time with a really good success. So there's a little extra tip there for you. So we talked about fluid intake, calcium. We want to restrict that to 500 milligrams per day, and we're going to avoid dairy. We're going to watch, be careful of nuts, seeds, fortified foods, no calcium supplements or calcium based antacids and citrate support, I namely water, lemon water or potassium citrate will bind with the urinary calcium and reduce stone formation, avoid it in renal failure or hyper calemia the potassium citrate and go with the lemon water.

Bill Clearfield  1:12:15
Laboratory monitoring, again, remember, this can be dangerous, so we want to, we want to be careful monitoring. So for calcium homeostasis, we're going to do total calcium, ionized calcium, on ionized calcium, serum phosphate and parathyroid hormone. For renal function, we'll do the serum creatinine. Well, we'll get a bun also. We'll also get that sustained C, which is a more sensitive marker for renal function. And sometimes we'll do a 24 hour urinary calcium excretion periodic imaging. We will do a DEXA scan, and we'll get an annual kidney ultrasound to detect nephro calcinosis or stones, if they're on the protocol for that long so that's our evaluation and our monitoring, 24 hour urinary calcium excretion is the most sensitive marker for deciding when to lower or pause vitamin vitamin D. You know, a lot of patients don't want to be carrying a bucket around and peeing in it for 24 hours. A safe level for 24 hour urinary calcium is less than 250 50 milligrams per liter. At that point, we can continue on as before. The danger is, if it's more than 250 milligrams per liter, we stop the vitamin D for three days, and then we decrease the dose by half. When we do restart, it maintain the fluids and then restart at a lower daily dose. Exercise is actually part of the Coimbra protocol prescription. And again, this is not a suggestion. Exercise is an integrative part of this high dose vitamin D and calcium restrictions increase bone turnover and reduce bone density over time, weight bearing, aerobic exercise will can counteract that, and especially by providing mechanical stress to to maintain bone strength. Exercise cataracts, the skeletal effects of the low calcium intake on this protocol and exercise supports cardiovascular health, metabolic health. I don't need to go into it with with all of you, the joys and the the profits of a good exercise program. So what do we know from the research? So there are pilot studies, there are case studies, there's no Big Pharma. You know 2020, unit, 600,000 you know K, case, case, cases to be studied. There are no, as far as I know, long term randomized control trials with the statistical power necessary for, you know, the publications that that are required. And there's a lot of disagreement, you know, in a lot of worlds. And I'm sure when I'm finished, I'm going to hear some disagreement when we talk in the chat. Okay, so this was a study in 2013 by cinnamore, the the the reference is down there in the at the bottom. And this was they used a fixed dose of 35,000 units vitamin d3 for six months when vitiligo and psoriasis patients, they reported no toxicities in any of the patients that as they were monitored carefully, and they had, again, high hydration, low calcium diet. And this is the percentage of patients that had improvement, significant improvement. And again, some of this is subjective on the protocol here, so greater than 80% you can see in the vitiligo and psoriasis patients. This is one of the patients here. This was before. This was after. Six months later, you can see this is there's quite a quite a big change here. This patient was was extremely satisfied with how things went. These are the 25 hydroxy vitamin D levels at the baseline. Here you can see it's about 35 and it would fluctuate between 80 and 120 on the protocol. And as the these are parathyroid hormone. And as you can see here, remember 15 to 25 to 65 is considered normal. And we see the patients, sort of here, anywhere from about 45 to about 65 pre treatment. Six months later, you can see they're down in the 15 to 20. This is where we want to be, here, in the lower third of the reference range. This is a patient with vitiligo. And you know, although you might say, Well, this was an all that dramatic, we were able to get some repigmentation here in the hands and feet. This was after six months. This is a long term treatment. And as you can see, her face is actually much better than her hands here. And so this was actually quite encouraging to see this neurological there. There are numerous case reports, again, with the high dose vitamin D, with a moderate success. This was one by Amman and high dose vitamin D, 3.53 and a half years 319, autoimmune patients. 65% of them were female. Average age was 43 average dose was 35,291 I use, and that was for the this was an MS study. These were, I think this was vitiligo over on this side here, and again, the safety measurements and because paying strict, strict supervision paid off, these are the diagnoses that have been tried and used and have been written about With on the on this protocol and vitiligo is that was, is the most, most common alopecia areata, autoimmune thyroiditis, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease. You can see the all of them here in psoriasis. So, so all the common autoimmune issues, primary outcome was one was to in this study, was to reassure safety and measure all the measurements and mean values for total serum calcium, creatinine, estimated GFR and 24 hour urinary calcium, extreme remain within normal reference range. And as it was pretty significant, since we the patients were on an average of 35,000 units per day, and the MS patients were on an average of 53,000 53,000 units per day. Correlation analysis, there was a weak relationship between oral vitamin d3 and serum or urine and urinary calciums, suggesting that strict dietary calcium restriction and hydration will mitigate the calcium elevating effects of high dose vitamin D. Parathyroid levels were significantly decreased across the board, for the MS and non non MS patients converted, confirming their biological effect of high dose vitamin D on calcium homeostasis. Parathyroid hormone plateaued at different levels in different groups, and it was dose dependent. Multiple Sclerosis patients reached a lower parathyroid plateau than non multiple sclerosis patients, consistent with higher doses needed for your those neurological interventions. The differential pattern supported individual dosing and shows that parathyroid suppression tracks vitamin D dosing. And again, here's your here's the reference for that molecular support in in this study, the subgroup of 130 patients, genetic testing revealed that about 75% of the patients carried four mutations of the vitamin D receptor, snips across different gene lines, which was a pretty high prevalence for just, You know, one vitamin D, you know, genetic markers. So we can imagine, if we expand this to all of the vitamins, we could have a field day here. So, so we have gene variants, we have impaired metabolism from them. We get relative vitamin D resistance with the need for vitamin D to high vibe dose vitamin D to overcome, alright? So what can go wrong? Nephro calcinosis, calcium deposits in the kidneys, and it can cause permanent kidney damage, structural damage and functional damage, with progressive loss of renal function that can become irreversible. Nephrolithiasis, kidney stones, calcium containing kidney stones, which are acutely painful. There's urinary obstruction, recurrent infections, and you know, these folks end up going to the or quite frequently. And then there's cardiac disturbances. We talked about that cardiac arrhythmias, shortened Qt intervals, atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, and some severe cases, and eventually, this is what did Tom in, was cardiac arrest.

Bill Clearfield  1:22:07
There was a case with hypercalcemia and Renal Insufficiency in an MS patient taking 100,000 units a day that highlighted that toxicity is a possibility and to not take this type of protocol lightly. Upon further investigation, the patient was identified as a carrier of the Me, me n1, gene which causes elevation and parathyroid hormones prior to the starting of the protocol, which was a pre existing condition. So the lesson here is the necessity of a thorough baseline screening, and I guess you're going to have to do some genetic testing also, before you initiate high dose vitamin D self treatment. So you know, it's easy that you can go get vitamin D. You know, anywhere you can go get it, at the dollar store, you can go get it at Walmart. And self care is a problem, because you know these patients, and even, you know, medical personnel tend to forget sometimes. And you know, when they self treat or they fail to follow, you know, the protocol to a T, they can run into bad problems. You know, I'm a medical doctor. I know better. I know what I'm doing, but you know, and again, Vitamin D is over the counter, and so self administration can. Patients can run into severe problems like Tom. And then some patients do some of the protocol, but not all of the protocol. Again, with the cofactors, particularly with magnesium, they'll leave that out. With zinc, they'll leave that out. And they again, run into different types of toxicities. What don't we know there's no long term randomized control trials with extended follow up periods, long term effects on bone density with chronic calcium restriction. We don't know that cardiovascular outcomes with sustained high vitamin D. We don't know that cancer risk modifications could be better, could be worse. Neurological effects of chronic, high dose exposure, I think we had had an inkling of that with Tom and his, you know, seizures that that became the Status Epilepticus, and we were unable to break them. The durability of the autoimmune remission after many years of treatment. Can it become a permanent thing, or is the high dose vitamin D permanent? We don't know that and safety of treatment beyond three to five years. So you know, is it plausible? Yeah, it's it's doable. There's immunologic research on vitamin D effects on th, 17, T reg cell balance and vitamin D receptor polymorphisms. That you know has been done is not proved by, you know, our gold standard of peer reviewed studies with long term follow up, and there's preliminary evidence exists with pilot study showing promising results, and again, as I since I started, it is potentially dangerous. So here's a sort of an overview of a treatment for autoimmune disease developed by Dr Cicero Coimbra to suppress autoimmune activity, high dose vitamin D to overcome vitamin D resistance. We want to lower the parathyroid levels to with the lowest third of the reference range. It has to be done under strict medical supervision. We need high fluid intake, at least two and a half liters per day, strict low calcium diet and constant lab value monitoring the individual doses. Usually we start at 100 at 1000 units per kilogram per day. And daily doses can be they can actually be adjusted due to lab markers. And so it's never a fixed amount. Again, two and a half liters of fluid per day to protect the kidneys, regular monitoring the CO factors including magnesium, vitamin b2, fibo Flavin, omega three fatty acids, Vitamin K, are essential and stay need to stay away from any type of calcium, type foods that risk hypercalcemia when a patient asks about the coimba protocol, if they've started on it, we don't stop it. We don't stop any current therapies. We don't discontinue any proven disease modifying treatments, you know, multiple sclerosis agents, immunosuppressants, without, you know, a careful plan. This is not for everybody. They need to be confirmed as having some sort of autoimmune issue with inadequate response or intolerance and ability to work with a physician closely, or the physicians extenders to monitor fluids, to monitor diet and to make sure that they're using all of the cofactors. This is an adjunct option. It's not a replacement for anything that is evidence based and is never a deep do it yourself again. We're in Reno starting Thursday morning at 8am we want you there, if you can make it, if you can't make it, online, Congress of medical excellence.com, and 20 ama CME credits, we and here are all our speakers. Here we got Pete Dimitri, we got Marlene Siegel. We got Dana oleman. We got Bill Richards. We have Felice Gersh, who's very famous in the in the hormone world. Thomas levy is coming up from Columbia to be with us. He's going to do it, be doing three hours for us. Dr Sahar swedan, who's a hormone expert from Ann Arbor, Michigan, and she's number I think she's number one now she's the number one instructor at a 4m in the hormone world. And we're going to have integrative oncology with Sean Devlin, heavy metal detox with Pete Dimitri. Greg Jones, who's a nurse, but runs a ketamine IV ketamine clinic, will be telling us about that. Dr shalenburger, Frank Shallenberger, of ozone fame, will be here. So it's a great, great lineup. If you're in the Reno area tomorrow night, let me know. We can get you into a lecture on from Dr Goldstein, who's very famous in the testosterone research world. It's a if you're no Reno it's a Bricks restaurant at 630 but we need a reservation. Get in touch with me, the two, Doctor Tano and doctors Jeanette, Sena, Serena, Serna, you're in. Okay, so, Doctor Tanno, we're going to be at the hotel at five. If you're there, we'll take you over there. It's not far, it's not even a five minute drive from the hotel, but we'll take you there. You know it's dark and you know it's a little bit chilly in Reno at night this time of the year. Anybody else wants to join us? Please let me know. I'll do my best to get you in. My contact there says it's not a problem. The only thing he doesn't they have to be a prescribing practitioner, so sorry. Dr Siegel, I tried. I just told him you were. Dr Siegel, I didn't tell him you were a vet. They found that out themselves.

Speaker 2  1:29:33
So say that she's my MA. Can we tell them that she's

Bill Clearfield  1:29:39
our Ma? I tried. I really tried. So and again. Congress of medical excellence, 5.0 starts Thursday. It's also online, very inexpensive, so please be be there with us, and that's it. Questions for you. I hope you like that. Like I said, you know, I learned about it for the first time. Dr narrow, you have any experience with this?

Speaker 2  1:30:08
Have you used this? Nah, I've read the protocols before. It's just as you can see, you better have good insurance

Bill Clearfield  1:30:15
for this. Yeah, yeah. We're, I have, I have a number, number of patients that, that I, that I'm thinking of, you know, might be a candidate for this. So the first thing I'm doing is making a a thoroughly informed consent

Speaker 2  1:30:33
before anything. It better be. I was reading through it. I think you would see the countries who are doing this, US is very in terms of the number of practitioners who's doing this.

Bill Clearfield  1:30:46
They're even doing live in the US that are doing it,

Speaker 2  1:30:50
from what I read, and they're not even advertising for it, so it's really out of the country, so international. That's why I think I saw India being one of the bigger countries who's doing this, and I think some of the practitioners in the Philippines, if

Bill Clearfield  1:31:03
you want so, I mean, if we never use it, I mean, it's food for thought. I found it quite fascinating. And I kept as I as I was, sort of studying this and putting this talk together. I kept thinking about my patients that, you know, my MS patients, and my Hashi, you know, I have, I probably have three, 400 Hashimoto patients, you know, actively going, you know, and we can get their antibodies down to a single digits. But unless they have, in my experience, unless they've had h pylori and, sorry, sorry, ladies, it's only men. We've treated the H Pylori, and the Hashimotos went away, and it was cured, cured. I mean, the antibodies are gone. The thyroid disease went away, but it's only been h pylori, the etiology of h pylori, and only men. I don't know why so, but that's my experience.

Speaker 2  1:31:58
So there's a lot of a lot in the chat here. I'm going to read it for you. So, so for Marlin, is this different than people with BDR snips that you need high doses to push the gene to race level of 25 oh, vitamin d3 so what was the question that was, I'm old, I don't hear so well anymore. What's the question then people with VDR snips that you need high doses to push the gene to raise the level of 25 oh, H, vitamin d3,

Bill Clearfield  1:32:31
so I think it is yes, yes, yeah, the answer

Speaker 2  1:32:35
is yes, there. So okay, but you, you know, you've noticed that there are so many different snips in that process? Yeah, I think there were 1200 right? So I think you're

Bill Clearfield  1:32:44
trying to hit all of those snips, right? Probably

Speaker 2  1:32:47
try to hit the big ones. Well, this is a question from Jeanette, so this is a good one. Is there a way to test for this acquired vitamin D resistance besides the genetic testing? So you would know that in genetic tests, you already have indications, or, I guess, parameters for VDR snips. Can that be something that you can use in order for somebody to be eligible for this protocol?

Bill Clearfield  1:33:11
Yeah, I guess,

Speaker 2  1:33:14
you know, unknown, yeah. Well, that's the thing. It says that from the the main pathophysiology of this problem. It's that that resistance of that receptor, but if you have a test that you could actually that can tell you that they are resistant. I mean, can you base that on that? I don't know.

Bill Clearfield  1:33:31
That's just that one. I'm not, I'm not, I'm not clear on so. So that's again, you know, for me, this, this was, I found it fascinating, and I it was all theoretical. I've not done any, any of this yet, but I can see myself doing it actually. So I have myself that to myself, I fortunately, fortunately, my thyroid disease is just the acquired from Reno thyroid, thyroid issues. We're deaf. I've been here long enough, and we're downwind from where the nuclear testing was done in the 50s and 60s, and I heard, I heard rumor that they're going to start doing it again.

Speaker 2  1:34:11
Yeah, I don't know about the perks, as if there's the perks that you get from being a resident in Reno from Ireland, can homeopathy play a role to restore the receptor site. Which ones will help, if any, I don't know. So on my end, again, homeopathy is, as you would know, they tackle classic illnesses and diseases, miasms and again, this I cannot answer. I do homeopathy in my practice. But again, this is more of constitutional when you approach homeopathy rather than actual receptor site pathologies. I'll probably research more on that. Yeah, from Janet. How could we know if we hit the

Bill Clearfield  1:34:56
right dose of vitamin D? Okay, so we're going to look at at the parathyroid hormone levels, and we want it in the lower third of the reference range. So at 15 to 65 is the reference range at lab core. So you want it probably anywhere from about 15, no lower than 10 to about 30. And so if we start out, if we start out at a fixed dose, say, at 35,000 units, we would, I would check the parathyroid levels every four weeks, and we'll see how it how it drops, and when we get, you know that, you know, when we get it to that one of those levels that that then you got, you have the right dose. Remember, we don't want it. We don't want to overdose them either. We don't want the parathyroid levels to go to zero, because then we're

Speaker 2  1:35:41
going to end up with bone issues. And again, this reminded me of my, I guess, my tip of the week last week about vitamin D being a CYP inducer. So majority of these autoimmune diseases probably has also core, core morbidities such as hyperlipidemia, who are on other medications. So again, that's something to look into when you're using these high of a dose of vitamin DS and these chronically ill patients. Another one is, you answer this, any association of vitamin D resistance and severe trauma? I think you did

Bill Clearfield  1:36:16
mention that right levels? Yeah. So that's, you know, that's, that's an affirmative, yeah.

Speaker 2  1:36:22
For patients with vitiligo, what's the ideal vitamin d3 dosage from Elizabeth? I think that you that's a 35,000

Bill Clearfield  1:36:28
I think for six months. Yeah? Well, that one, that one study, they started at 35,000 on everybody six months, alternatively, 1000 units per kilogram per day. So that's a much higher dose. So I would probably go 35 40,000 you know, that's, that's in the, in all the literature that you read about this type of protocol, that that's sort of the bottom, that, you know, the bottom of the dosing range. And I tend to be a little bit more conservative when we do, you know, crazy things like this. So I would do 35 to 40,000 check their parathyroid levels every four weeks, and increase accordingly. When you get it down into the 15 to 30 range, that's that, then you found the right dose.

Speaker 2  1:37:16
This is Heather. I mean, Heather is asking, this is for the conference. Do you need to be a prescribing practitioner to be online? Nope. So there is an option there that if you're international, if you're a lay person, you also have a good price to get into the conference. And even online, you don't have to be here.

Bill Clearfield  1:37:37
And if they come, we're feeding them. We're gorging

Speaker 2  1:37:41
them with food here. So we have more food. We have,

Bill Clearfield  1:37:46
yeah, we have not non CME talks for every breakfast, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, every lunch. And we have two parties after hours on Friday,

Speaker 2  1:38:00
Thursday and Friday, yeah, so we're going to make them gain weight.

Bill Clearfield  1:38:03
That's, yeah, you're going to gain weight while you're here. So

Speaker 2  1:38:07
all right, and how long do the effects of treatment last after achieving good

Bill Clearfield  1:38:11
results in general? Yeah, that's one of the unknowns. Okay, yeah. Answer is that that's one of the unknowns, according to Dr cohimba, one and a half to two years post achieving, you know, therapeutic levels, they these patients still have good progress. The problem with with it is that we don't have these, you know, the usual studies that you get, that you do for, you know, for the optimization. So Dr Burgess, here's another

Speaker 3  1:38:44
project for you, another research idea. Oh boy. Oh boy. Okay. Hey, we can do the research. And we have

Bill Clearfield  1:38:52
to and take it to Roatan, you know, we probably need a little less vitamin D.

Speaker 3  1:38:58
Well, Trump just freed the president of Honduras, but at the same time declared a war on Venezuela. So we're in a touchy situation down there right now.

Bill Clearfield  1:39:11
But hey, we're there for the sunshine. We're not. We don't care about their politics.

Speaker 3  1:39:17
Leave us out of this. All right, hey, just because you mentioned the subject of vitiligo, I'd like to say because we're dealing with the other stuff too. In Sri Lanka, the United Nations program there, they were getting near total success with vitiligo within six months. So the bad, you know, young cases in that area where you really see the spotted leopards going around, and they're socially put down and all that. We had one lady who was kicked out of her house by her husband because she was so ugly, because she had vitiligo and with acupuncture, plus homeopathy, no vitamin D, I'm just saying just acupuncture, just homeopathy. She, like most people, were totally reversed within six months. Okay, yeah,

Bill Clearfield  1:40:09
good stuff. All right, what if we use lower doses? Well, the issue there is that you need to overcome this vitamin D receptor resistance, and that's why you need the higher doses. We use 5000 to 10,000 units, you know, routinely on just about everybody. And I don't think that we see reversals in autoimmune symptoms, you know, with that, I mean, it's an improvement, but I don't think you know the results that we're looking for and what we're discussing here, you need higher

Speaker 4  1:40:37
doses than that. Well, I think I asked Dr Vargas one question, what treatment did you try homeopathy? And what are the treatment for that vitiligo patient? But I have one, and I am really interested, besides vitamin D, because we are trying not as high. But it would be interesting to know

Speaker 3  1:41:01
I tell you, what, if I could get your email through bill, all right, if he's, if you say, Please, please, please, and I would love, I would love to share with you on that, because you probably have theories on toxins causing

Speaker 4  1:41:18
it, Right? Yeah, okay, yes, we can

Unknown Speaker  1:41:21
talk. Okay, thank you.

Bill Clearfield  1:41:23
Thank you. Alright, here's the here's the money. Question, is it really worth pushing the doses and the risk to get a reprieve in symptoms? You know that says

Speaker 3  1:41:33
million dollar question, since we're since we're a research group, our little committee, everything we talk about revolves around safety. So my question is, how safe? And you kept repeating tonight, how you do the safety checks and all. But if it's safe, why not?

Speaker 2  1:41:51
Well, you have to remember that you're not only pushing vitamin D, increase, fluid intake, take the other supplements, calcium, limitation, dietary restrictions. So this is really going to be putting somebody,

Speaker 4  1:42:03
yeah, almost like cancer. More than that is a kidney damage, nephro calcinos, which is many times irreversible, right? So I think that that is the most, most important thing that we have to remember it is we can we can deal with the parathyroid. We can deal with everything. But sometimes ultrasound will not show you early changes, and by the time it shows there is calcinosis or something, and I'm not too sure how much you are going to be able to reverse it

Bill Clearfield  1:42:46
try not to get into trouble in the first place.

Speaker 5  1:42:49
Yeah, yeah. Jeff Bowles has a book on high doses of vitamin D, and he's urging now that you use magnesium in these high doses, magnesium should be 1000 to 1500 elemental magnesium. And in addition to the things you listed there, he also has put in boron and b5 in the things that you would need with the high doses of vitamin D.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:19
Okay, the boron is to prevent the osteoporosis.

Bill Clearfield  1:43:27
I don't know. I have to ask him. So we use, we use boron to lower sex hormone binding globulin, you know, to get an increase in testosterone. Yeah. Okay, so how does sunlight exposure affected. I wouldn't think sunlight exposure would would matter all that much. I mean, you know, we have patients that live in Hawaii that have vitamin that are outside all the time, and have vitamin D levels in the 20s and 30s. So I wouldn't expect that. You know, you know that they're, you know, sunlight all the time. I, I wouldn't expect it. And again, I don't have anything to go on just, but get just experience. But I wouldn't think it would expect, expect that affected that much. I don't know if anybody else has, has any

Speaker 2  1:44:07
anything to add to that. So now you're going to add that to the limitation too. Do not expose yourself. So you're avoiding calcium diets and then avoid we've

Bill Clearfield  1:44:18
been telling everybody that if you sunscreen, you're not going to get an absorbing of vitamin D now, you're now going to tell

Speaker 2  1:44:23
them to put the sunscreen back on. Yeah. So there's more tasks. May I add something Sure?

Speaker 6  1:44:29
Dr George Fletch is on YouTube, has a video on the use of boron for osteopenia, osteoporosis, and using this country, only used one to three milligrams. But in Israel, they get 10 to 20 milligrams a day of boron. And in Turkey, they get 20 to 30 milligrams a day. Toxicity is seen in pregnant women at 1600 milligrams of boron. So it's very useful, and there's even a sin Porter to pull calcium into the bones from boron, and so a company called that makes Boro tabs, 30 milligrams a day. When Dr fletches took the Boro tabs for a number of years, he had the DEXA scan at age 65 he looked like a 40 year old, 35 year old in that DEXA scan. So that it's very useful to use high, higher doses of boron.

Bill Clearfield  1:45:33
So and again, remember, boron will raise testosterone levels. Adequate testosterone levels will increase bone density, so it'll

Speaker 6  1:45:44
you know, one hand, well, you're using multiple effects. Yeah. Great lecture. He's kind of soft spoken, so you may need to turn up the volume, but it's an excellent lecture. George J, O, R, G, E, fletches, F, L, E, C, H, A, S, and what is it? Let's just J, O, R, G, E, then F, L, E, C, H, A, S, and it's on boron and osteopenia or osteoporosis. Okay, just wanted to throw

Speaker 4  1:46:19
that out to you guys. Great. Yeah, we'll look them up. And what lab? What pharmacy did he use?

Speaker 6  1:46:26
Moron, Hakala, research, Ocala. Hakala, H, A, K, a, l, a Hakala.

Bill Clearfield  1:46:35
We get ours from life extension.

Speaker 6  1:46:38
Well, they have borrow tabs that are 20 or 30 milligrams, yeah, not

Bill Clearfield  1:46:43
one or two or three, yeah, those come those are three. And we've used up to 12 milligrams, you know, to lower sex hormone binding globulin. It actually works quite nicely. On average, we can get a decrease of about 50 to 60% in about three

Speaker 6  1:47:01
to five months. Can I ask you a question? What? Dr Clearfield, why do people develop high levels of SHBG? I have some patients. I have a

Bill Clearfield  1:47:10
hard time lowering it. I wish I knew. I don't know why. I'm just I sort of, I stopped trying to figure it out, and we'll just deal we'll deal with what we have.

Speaker 2  1:47:21
So from the great Pam Smith, she explained this any metabolic, inflammatory condition. So basically, what she's saying anything could bring it up. So maybe what she's giving us a message is investigate he has pre diabetes, high

Speaker 6  1:47:40
cholesterol, hypertension, the great idea. Great idea. Pam's one of my heroes.

Bill Clearfield  1:47:47
Yeah, she was an AMG, too. Thank you. And she was in Reno a couple of weeks ago that Dr Nario missed. So there's that one.

Speaker 2  1:47:56
Okay, you got anything online? Hold on. One more question for you, safer or alternative form of vitamin of D than calciferal, according to show,

Bill Clearfield  1:48:06
he's asking a question. They were pretty, pretty adamant about using, you know, vitamin d3 like d2 Yeah, no, yeah, d3 and and the daily dose, not, not the, not the extended release ones, you

Speaker 7  1:48:20
know, not the weekly ones. The reason I brought that up, it's years ago. I did a Google search and vitamin D as a rodent poison, and I did an AI search, and it can still be used to kill, you know, mice and rats. So that's kind of

Bill Clearfield  1:48:43
icing on the cake. Vitamin D. I mean, we talked about, you know, it'll kill your kidneys, right? It'll send you, yeah, it'll send you into cardiac arrhythmias,

Speaker 7  1:48:51
and it requires a lot of supervision and balancing and

Bill Clearfield  1:48:55
whatever was involved, yeah. I mean, I don't think this is, you know, you know, you know Joe Smith, who comes in with a with a slightly low thyroid and a TPO of 15 and, you know, and a couple of symptoms, or no symptoms. I don't think this is for that, for this, this person, but we have patients that have, you know, severe MS symptoms, and they've pretty much given up. We have, again, we have, you know, thyroid you know, they have the thyroid resistant thyroid antibodies, and we even have a hard time, you know, controlling them. I think we do much better than than pretty much anybody

Speaker 7  1:49:34
else in town with our protocols. It's neural Netto genetic

Bill Clearfield  1:49:38
application problem. Oh, yeah, you know, absolutely, yeah, yeah, okay, you know. And you know, and you know, some of the patients, they don't want to hear it, but you know, if any type of fire, in fact, it probably everybody, nobody should be eating gluten ever. I think that's the that's, that's, that's the bottom line there, up there, even matzo balls. Even matzo balls. Yeah, you're gonna have to do, you're gonna have to find gluten

Speaker 7  1:50:02
free matzo balls. Michelle, I'm sure they exist and they get me made up.

Bill Clearfield  1:50:07
Okay, all right, I'm gonna show you this again. You get this cool you get this cool bag, and you get a, you get a energy plug with our logo on it. Doctor Bill. You have an online question? Okay, go ahead.

Speaker 2  1:50:26
So, so you mentioned about heart problems, electrical abnormalities with the therapy. What about calcification of arteries? Has there been any, I

Bill Clearfield  1:50:37
guess, studies that, again, I don't think they've had long term studies on this from, you know, high doses of vitamin D. Usually it's, you know, vitamin D, acute toxicity is the usual thing. So I don't know that that you would, I mean, you might have, you know, a lot of patients with calcified, you know, coronary arteries and and, you know, the vitamin D, you know, that's inflamed. You know, the inflammatory component of it will, will, will set it off. I mean, I can see

Speaker 2  1:51:08
that as a scenario. And I think as part of your protocol, also you please do so as part of k2 d3 therapy, you definitely want that k6 to divert

Bill Clearfield  1:51:19
right out of the arteries. And I can think of a couple of other things that we do pretty routinely here that that could be part of that protocol also to enhance things, you know, because we measure hormones and we measure, you know, you know, the inflammatory markers and and, you know, you know, all the stuff that we do. So, you know, we can certainly come up with, you know, our own sort of version of this, but this is the coimber protocol. I thought it was really fascinating. I have a half a dozen patients just off the top of my head that I might approach with them after I finished my informed consent. Tell us about it. If we, if we, if we, if we do do it, I will. If you're interested, we'll, we'll, we'll report back and tell you how it is. And if you see me, and you know, on the front page of The New York Times is the quack of the year, then you'll know it didn't go so well.

Speaker 2  1:52:15
You know, I got reported by an endocrinologist in the VA for me just giving his patient testosterone. What more if he sees on his chart? 50,000 100,000 300,000 vitamin D international units. Me giving it to him so I know

Bill Clearfield  1:52:30
what the ending of that would be. Well, what did Dr Serna ask? Is it really worth where's that question?

Speaker 2  1:52:40
Well, if you're going to be viewed as by your conventional colleagues, man, they're going to scratch their heads for sure. But if it's us sure, we understand,

Speaker 4  1:52:50
I have a question about your experience with people with autoimmune diseases, because you said that you might be asking some of your patients if they might be interested in this protocol. Do you Do you find that people with autoimmune Alright, so what I find is that people with autoimmune diseases tend to be self sabotaging their care, and they're highly reluctant to actually do something that can cure them.

Bill Clearfield  1:53:19
Well, maybe the newly diagnosed autoimmune people, but the ones who've had it for 2030, years, and they're just sick of it, you know, they're finally ready to listen. I that those are the ones that we kind of get through to. So you kind of, I guess, pick and choose who you're going to, you know, who are you going to? You know, approach, especially something like this too. And you know, if there's any hint of, you know that they're going to be reluctant to, well, you know, we

Speaker 4  1:53:49
just can't do it okay, because it puts me at risk too. You know, if you do something that's not fully conventional, and you're trying to help them, no, are not

Bill Clearfield  1:53:59
really interested. They could we. We passed fully conventional a long time ago.

Speaker 4  1:54:03
Yeah, yeah. I honestly don't find any difference between the newly diagnosed in the long term ones, I

Bill Clearfield  1:54:11
ones that are long term, and, you know, they've sort of accepted this is, this is the way it's going to be, and they're never going to get any better. And then we bring it, bring them some modalities, and they do feel, you know, somewhat better, even if they're not cured per se. And I never tell anybody that I can get rid of it, even the ones who show up with a, you know, I like when I see the H Pylori guy, you know. I know in the back of my mind that, you know, maybe this will be, you know, one of the ones that it'll go away. And let me tell you when, when that happens. I mean, that is a miracle, and you are, you know, the hero of a lifetime, almost like, don't want anybody, on average, one to two patients a year, with that in that situation. So, you know, it's not often, but it does. It does happen every once in a while. And again, I don't it's only been men. I don't know why.

Speaker 4  1:55:00
So men who succeed and actually,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:03
yeah, do work. Yeah, I don't know why, because, you know, I do, I do the same thing, you know, I do what, what we've been taught. And I don't see what the difference

Speaker 4  1:55:13
should be, but that's, well, we're more complicated than you are. I mean,

Bill Clearfield  1:55:19
there's that. That's why asked about vitiligo homeopathic information. So Dr Nario, I don't know if that's you or Dr Gerber's on or somebody else.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:32
I think Dr Burgess is going to give back

Speaker 8  1:55:35
vitiligo, alright, alright, but I think I want to double down on you. Don't have any, no, I don't have a hot one for vitiligo,

Speaker 2  1:55:44
okay, alright. Well, just want to double down on Doctor cernas, because I know that what she's talking about that a patient does not only have autoimmune disease, they have other comorbidities as well, hypertension, high cholesterol. So this kind of like, I think as I teach patients to fix those other problems. Yeah, I kind of see auto immune diseases also going down at the same time. So, yeah, I think there's some

Speaker 4  1:56:07
truth behind it. What she's saying, Yeah, you know, people come in to be treated for it, like they can get really mad about what I want them to do, like, Well, come in and pretend that they want to do whatever it takes to get well, but then I only seem to sell sabotage.

Bill Clearfield  1:56:27
And, yeah, that happens all the time, you know, they, you know, we, we saw them three months ago, for, you know, they, we saw them, you know, a year ago, and they were feeling terrible, then they felt better, and now they don't feel so good again. And we look at the labs, and the labs are maybe not back to the baseline, but they've all slipped back. And then I go through the, you know, we so we recommended this, this, this, no, I didn't do this. No, I didn't do this. I said, Okay, I see where we're going here. Yeah, that happens, you know, you know, unless you hire somebody to follow them around and make them do what? What, you know, what's recommended? I don't know what you can do about it, you know? I mean, you know, they're, you know, unless they're little kids, they're adults. And you know, I'm sure this has happened to all of us, they come in and they start apologizing. I'm sorry I didn't do this. I'm sorry I didn't, you know, I said, I said, Don't apologize to me. Apologize to yourself.

Speaker 4  1:57:23
I'm just the messenger, right? I just feel that gets the autoimmune people that seem to stand out with me being, I don't know, just it becomes a frustration for me because I'm trying to help them, and then

Bill Clearfield  1:57:35
they turn on me at some point, yeah, you know that happens. Or they go away. You don't see them for, you know, a year or two, and then they come back. And I said, Well, okay, you cheated on me, but now you're back. So let's

Speaker 3  1:57:48
take it from there. A bit fox will bite you, and an old Doberman will as well. If the brain has inflammation, they tend to be a little nasty.

Speaker 4  1:57:59
And, yeah, yeah. That's what I think is going

Speaker 3  1:58:03
on, yeah. So maybe we can just and by the way, since we brought up the vitiligo, the homeopathy, the acupuncture, and we brought up the toxicity as well, it's a three way street. So one of the reasons, one of the ways I use acupuncture, and we're going to be talking about this at the meeting in Reno it's not just the homeopathy, but I use homeopathy as an activation of an acupuncture point. This is new stuff, so and and that way we use very little acupuncture, I mean very little homeopathics, so it's cheap, safe, easy, fast, so we could probably, within one or two minutes, hit the points that are necessary to be involved with this. And we'll, I think we ought to have a meeting talk about it more. Dr Nario, Bill,

Bill Clearfield  1:58:49
anybody interested? Okay, yeah. I mean, I've been mentioned, you know, I, I've been in acupuncture since 1990 91 and when I started using acupuncture points for all my injection sites. You know, the the success rate became, you know, much, much greater. So cosmetics, I mean, I do Botox. I use acupuncture points in the face. I don't, I don't. I do it completely different than than you're taught in the schools. We use about a third less of the product. I never say never, but we may get a little drop of blood. We never get bleeding, we never get hematomas, we never get eye droops, we never get any of those complications. We use pillars when we use the acupuncture points for our entry points, we don't get we don't get blood vessel occlusions. We and we again. We use much less product and get as good results as as anybody else. And we use a third to half less product, so you can use the same amount of product and do twice as much for injections, shoulders, knees, backs, again, acupuncture points are golden. For you know, knowing where you know, knowing where the acupuncture points are, and using them as your entry point. You know, whoever figured this out? Remember, you know, the Chinese, when they figured this out 3000 years ago, they, you know, anatomy was taboo in their in their culture, they didn't do, you know, anatomy dissections. So how the hell they all figured it out, you know, over time is, is a mystery to me. But you know those acupuncture points are, you know, the you know, they are, they are, like, sacred, I mean, they are just great. And then combinations of them also, if you're interested, there's a DR tans. Dr Gerber, you know about these that? Dr Tan's magical points. I think there's 12 points.

Speaker 8  2:00:48
No, but I I'd love to spend a couple of minutes on the conference when we can.

Bill Clearfield  2:00:54
I got, I got aced out. I'm not speaking at all unless we get a drop out here, because we got too many. I was going to, I was going to speak on, you know, developments in my career over the years, from the 70s and every decade, three or four modalities that I've changed over the years up until yesterday. So talking about vitamin, you know, 100,000 units of vitamin D.

Speaker 8  2:01:23
So apparently Dr Andrews is coming. Yes, yes. We got a report. The email from Yeah, we got a

Bill Clearfield  2:01:33
report that he had died two years ago. At first it did, it didn't register. I mean, it started looking it up, and then I said, Wait a minute. He's, he sent us a slide show like two weeks before.

Speaker 8  2:01:44
That came from much better Bill Andrews and Dr Nario, Dr Ibarra, sent me a, I think, a little brief review of her talk. And I think you're going to be introducing her.

Speaker 2  2:01:59
You probably have that already? Yes, she's going to be moved so you're going to get, she's going to be

Speaker 8  2:02:05
on Thursday instead, I see that. I just want to make sure that you had the review, right? We got Dr Devlin, two hours there for you too. I see that. Thank you guys.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:15
Appreciate it. Hey, you know you know? Dr Gerber, you say, jump, you we say, how high you know that. Oh yeah. And I would have, I would have moved Doctor swidan Out, out of that to a different spot, but that was the only

Speaker 8  2:02:26
time she had for us. So alright. Well, bless her, we'll give her a good run.

Bill Clearfield  2:02:30
Okay, alright. So again, everybody, Thursday morning, 8am if you're online, you should be getting, I don't know if it went out tonight, you should be getting the link. It'll be, it'll be there by tomorrow at the latest. I think it went out already tonight. You may know, if it hasn't let somebody, let me know, you'll be getting the link for the for the Zoom link. It'll be different every day, though, we did that deliberately, so you're going to be getting a different link every day. And the reason we did that is, I don't know, Kevin had a reason for it. I don't remember what the reason was, but because, I mean, we've been, I've been on these and, of course, they gave you one link for for the whole time, but he wanted it for a different date. He did have a reason for that. So again, if you're in Reno tomorrow night at 630 we're going to be at Bricks restaurant. I need to make a reservation for you. And again, Dr Serna, Dr Tano, you're in. Dr manario, you're going to be you're in also. Dr halaso is going to be there and and our good friend, Joel is going to is coming to town for the conference too, and Joel will be there also. So we'll have our own, our own little Soiree. We'll be, we'll be listening to oral testosterone on decanoe. So which, you know, we were all taught don't never use oral testosterones, because they cause liver cancers or something like that. So, but these are these. This is the new the new era. So there's three brand name products that have come out in the last three to four years. Apparently, they're absorbed through the lymph system. They don't go through the liver. So thanks for all the hard work, guys. Okay, thank you so much. I got a lot of stuff to do yet tonight, because I got a checklist as long as your arm, and I hope this was, you know, you know, at least interesting. You know, if we never, never pay attention to it again, that's okay. But I, you know, when I first heard about it, I mean, I just, you know, sat up straight and and I took notes, I listened, and I've been doing, you know, my own research on it, and I thought it was pretty, pretty, pretty impressive.

Speaker 4  2:04:37
So I assume it's still scheduled, right? Because it's, it's just, I assume it's so scheduled, right? But, oh, testosterone, right, mean, right. It's not a precursor

Bill Clearfield  2:04:48
or anything. No, no, no, no. This is a scheduled drug. This is a, this is a, you know, a real, the real deal. Yeah, this is not a, you know, it's not, it's not a supplement. It's not, it's a, it's a regular prescription, you know, class three, you know, and what

Unknown Speaker  2:05:06
baloney. You just can't kiss anybody all day, right?

Speaker 3  2:05:11
They also rule it as a class too. So if your physician trying to cover your ass, think of same level as Oxycontin. Yeah.

Bill Clearfield  2:05:20
So, okay, Heather, you still here. So next week, Heather hallis and

Speaker 9  2:05:28
we're going to be I am here. Dr, Robert, can you

Bill Clearfield  2:05:31
give us a one minute, you know, overview

Speaker 9  2:05:35
for next week? Well, it's going to be pretty exciting, because it's going to talk about some methods that are used with nutrients that are kind of groundbreaking. And also, he may be talking about magnetic Well, I want him to tell you, because he's going to say it in a way that is okay, like, I don't want to say anything that's not okay for you know, people that aren't doctors, to say so he'll, he'll tell you, but it's going to be a really great hour, maybe two hours, of information that he has put together. And it's, it's just about different methods and different uses of nutrients and ways of getting them to be accelerated and more absorbed into the body, and he has all of the scientific talk about it, and he being Dr Robert salea, okay, from Mexico, that's next week.

Bill Clearfield  2:06:33
It is next week. Thank you. Next week. Same time, same station. By then, those of you who who weren't online and weren't in Reno will be kicking yourself. And then those of you are going to a 4m we're going to be saying, I should have gone to Reno instead. Here you can learn something. It's too crazy there

Unknown Speaker  2:06:52
at the Reno is better than Vegas, too,

Bill Clearfield  2:06:55
and it's a little quieter than Vegas, yeah? So, okay, so I can't wait to see all of you that are going to be here, and

Speaker 4  2:07:04
it should be a great show. Bill, how can we get it on the online? Unfortunately, I cannot come to Reno, okay,

Bill Clearfield  2:07:11
I'm going to, I'm going to give you the website, Congress of can you send it to me, or I can? Okay, thank you, Congress of medical excellence.com. I'll send it to you. That's the that's the website, and you just click on Register. It'll be on the front homepage. It'll be all the way over on the right. Okay, and let me show it to you here.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:42
And yeah, that's you're not going to show them the two bars in the upper

Bill Clearfield  2:07:49
right hand corner, right. Oh, yeah, we're, by the way, did I mention this that we're having a contest for Who? Who? Who amongst the the participants questionnaires asked the most ridiculous question that we had to waste time on, and so far, the winner is a certain physician who said he couldn't navigate the website on on his telephone, because there was no way to get to the agenda. He couldn't see the agenda. He couldn't see anything. And so I pulled it right up, and he said, Well, now what do I do? And I said, he said, Well, there's two bars on the right there. You touch the bars and the agenda comes up. He goes, Well, how am I supposed to know that? I said, That's a universal thing. Every, every, every, every URL that's done on a, on a I'm trying to, I'm trying to get the the website for the

Speaker 3  2:08:53
Hey Bill, something that might be a little bit important here is that if you go to the register on the Congress of medical excellence in West Virginia. And if you click on the info at Congress of excellent medical excellence.com It does not open. So some people may be trying to communicate by email and cannot get through to this site.

Bill Clearfield  2:09:18
All right, I'll, I'll look at that. So here's the here's the homepage on the on the computer. Hit Register Now over here, and whatever category in we see we got 9 million categories here.

Speaker 3  2:09:32
And yeah, go where it says at the bottom, Bill information, info there. Just click on that. See if it opens for you, Google Chrome. That's important. If people can't reach us, and I'm not on Google Chrome either, but that's what's popping up. So it may be on your end that people cannot communicate. So I already told

Bill Clearfield  2:09:58
Kevin, I'll see what we can do. The nice thing about this is, in two days, it won't matter,

Speaker 2  2:10:07
okay, yeah, we even have extraterrestrials special. See, we have et here. We got everybody on this

Bill Clearfield  2:10:16
show, yeah? So there's lots of categories. Pick one. We're not too, we're not too we're not too picky anymore, don't I mean, if you're in practice, oh, this, if you're in practice, don't, don't send a student rate, and, and, and we have, we have a rate for internet for outside the US and Canada. Because, if you'll remember, we had Lisa Tamati on, and she's, she's got some folks in Australia and New Zealand, and they're not CME folks, so we gave them a good price. And then we have the Philippine people too. So, but, but, you know, and we need your help. We need you to we need you to support us here. You know, we've had a little dry spell. We've been running these Tuesday night conferences every Tuesday since 2020 and you know, we don't charge for them. There is some costs, not, not including, you know, wear and tear on me. And so we don't charge for them the CME credits. If you buy them, that goes to the CME people, we don't see a dime of that that does, that doesn't come to us. So, and you know, we've had a dry spell since the AOA kicked us out as far as raising raising funds. So I'm hoping we're going to break even. We may have overfed you folks, but it should be a great time. So, okay, thank you, comments, questions, if you got any complaints, make it into make put it into chat. GPT, tell them to make it humorous and then send it to me.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:58
Okay, what's just what's that, or just send it

Bill Clearfield  2:12:04
to me, for you, send it to that info that doesn't work, and

Speaker 8  2:12:10
we'll get right on it. Will receive it. Yeah, we'll get right on it, send it to that info.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:17
So, all right, I'll look into that. All right, everybody, anybody else? Any comments, questions?

Speaker 9  2:12:23
Thank you. Please send me the link. If you can, I'll and I'll try to get on there the link for who? Yeah, for the conference. I will try. Who am I talking to?

Bill Clearfield  2:12:33
Heather. Heather. Heather. Okay,

Speaker 9  2:12:36
okay, I'll do my best. I thought you registered.

Bill Clearfield  2:12:38
No, I wasn't able to yet. Okay, alright, I'll send it to you, and I'll send it to Doctor Patel, anybody else. That's why we have the website, and it makes it easier. Alright, thank you. Okay, everybody. Thank you so much. We will see you next time, next week, same time, same station, and make it to make it to Reno now, right now. Go right there, right there, right now, Congress and medical excellence.com, and register right now, because we're almost done.

Speaker 4  2:13:06
Wait, there's two more here. Oh, I already answered

Bill Clearfield  2:13:09
myself, is it slides to get to these webinars? We got the videos. I found it on the otter site as A, O, S, R, d.org, oh, the otter site. Yeah, I found him. Okay. All right, I don't even maintain that that's just, I just have that on it. Just does

Speaker 4  2:13:29
it does it himself. It's very nice to have.

Bill Clearfield  2:13:33
Okay, all right, everybody, thank you so much. Thanks shell for everything. And are you going to be on? Shell? Are you sleeping? It looks like he's sleeping there. We're going to see you this weekend

Unknown Speaker  2:13:44
at all online. I need, I need my

Bill Clearfield  2:13:48
press pass. Okay, let me talk to you about that.

Speaker 7  2:13:52
Yeah, let me know. Okay, okay, yeah, it's going to be good. This was a great talk, by the way. Okay, I'm glad you liked it. So what's not to like? It's always great.

Bill Clearfield  2:14:07
Tell them at a 4m they don't. I'll work on them. When there was a the gal who used to run it a couple of years ago, I used to take Botox and do Botox on her, and she would put me in the program since she left nothing.

Speaker 7  2:14:25
It got political, because the people that own the organization, they're more in charge

Bill Clearfield  2:14:32
of who speaks now. Well, it's like, didn't we talk about something about political areas? And I said, I don't care about that. You know, you make something else. I don't care about, oh, Honduras Roatan, right? And we don't care about that. We just want the sunshine. You guys fight amongst yourselves,

Speaker 7  2:14:50
leave us out of it. No, no. I mean, I really think, I really think you should get more credit.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:01
Okay, yeah, you know, my father would say that in 15

Unknown Speaker  2:15:03
cents will get you a cup of coffee.

Bill Clearfield  2:15:06
He's dating himself, right? So, all right, all right, everybody. I got a lot of stuff to do here to get ready for Thursday morning, so I'm gonna you guys can stay on if you want, but I gotta

Speaker 4  2:15:18
get going here. So okay, thank you. Thank you all see you

Bill Clearfield  2:15:23
tomorrow.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:24
Okay, see you tomorrow.


Transcribed by https://otter.ai